{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V45 1938-39","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v45_1938-39.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V45 1938-39","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XLV
(CONTAINING PARTS loi-KiO)
I938-1939
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papei
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
Agents for America: THE F. W. FAXOiST CO.,
83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
PRINTED IN CRIiAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
CONTENTS
PART 152.
PAGE
Presidential Address. The Problem of Physical Pjiexomena in
CONNECTION ^VITH PsYCHICAL RESEARCH. By LoRD RaYLEIGH,
Sc.D., LL.D., r.R.S. - - 1
PART 153.
The Question of Lights supposed to have been observed near
THE Poles of a Magnet. By Lord Rayleigh, Sc.D., LL.D.,
r.R.S. - - - 19
A Sermon in St. Paul's. By IIrs W. H. Salter - - - 25
PART 154.
Keport on a Series of Sittings ^^^TH IMrs Eileen Garrett. By K.
M. GOLDNEY AND S. G. SOAL ...... 43
Reviews :
L Ernest Hl^^s'tley Wright. The Case for Telepathy. Pro-
fessor Chester E. Ivellogg. New Evidence (?) for
Extra-sensory Perception. By S. G. Soal - - - 88
II. Knowledge and Foreknoidedge. The Syynposia read at the
Joint Meeting of the Aristotelian Society and the Mind
Association. By H. F. Saltmarse - - - - 97
III. C. SpearjMAN. Psychology Down the Ages. By R. H. Thou-
LESS 100
PART 155.
A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena. By Isabel Xewton 103
Review : G. X. M. Tyrell. Science and Psychical Phenomena.
By W. H. Salter 127
PART 156
HeNTIY SiDGAVICK AlTD PsYCHICAL RESEARCH. By PrOFESSOR C. D.
Broad, Litt.D. - - - 131
Some Recollections of Henry Sidgaat;ck. By Lord Rayleigh,
F.R.S. - - -
Q-^:[^'^.(^,p 162
iv Contents
PART 157. PAGE
The Contributions of Psychical Research to Psycho-therapeu-
tics. By T. W. jMitchell, M.D. - - .- - - - 175
Reidew : Ethel Sidgwick. Mrs Henry Sidgwick. A Memoir.
By Mrs H. H. Salter 187
PART 158.
Obituary. Dr William McDougall. By Kenneth Richmond - 191
Short Exposure Photographs of a Jumping Model. By C. V. C.
Herbert 196
A Preliminary' Investigation of the Platform Clairvoyante,
Mrs Helen Hughes. By C. V. C. Herbert - - - - 199
A Case of Purported Spirit-Communication. By Mrs K. M.
GOLDNEY - - 210
Revieio : C. E. M. Joad. Adventures in Psychical Research. By
W. H. Salter 217
PART 159.
The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities. New Series.
By Whately Carington. M.A., M.Sc. 223
Report on Glasgow Repetition of Dr Rhine's Experiments on
Extra-Sensory Perception. By Robert H. Thouless - 252
A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success. By C. Dray'TON
Thomas - - - - 257
PART 160.
Presidential Address. By Professor H. H. Price - - - 307
OBITUAHY^ Professor Sigmund Freud 344
Review : Sigmund Freud's Moses and Monotheism - - - 347
Officers and Council for 1939 351
List of Members and Associates 352
Index to Vol. XLV 371
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 152
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS i
THE PROBLEM OF PHYSICAL PHENOMENA IN
CONNECTION WITH PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
BY
Lord Rayleigh, Sc.D., LL.D., F.R.S.
The field covered by our Society's work is broadly divided into
physical and mental, or as Richet preferred to say, objective and
subjective. Upon the whole, the Society has turned away from
studies of the former kind, not of set purpose, but partly because
good cases were difficult to find ; and partly because other fines of
investigation yielded more definite results. I think that this policy
was and is justified, and if I occupy your attention with a somewhat
unfashionable topic, it is only because I happen to be less ignorant
about it than about the other and more fruitful branches of the
Society's work.
In the time at my disposal I cannot pretend to be exhaustive, and
moreover I must confess to being imperfectly acquainted with some
of the contuiental fiterature, particularly on Eusapia Paladino. For
the rest, I befieve I have read most of what would be counted of first
rate importance, and will try to sum up the impression I have gained
from it.
The weak point of most of the earher records of physical pheno-
mena seems to be that the observers did not succeed in getting the
phenomena sufficiently imder control to allow them to have the same
effect repeated again and again, so that specific doubts could be
^Delivered at a General Meeting of the Society on November 24 1937.
2 Lord Bayleigh, Sc.D., LL.D., F.E.S. [part
cleared up by renewed observation. So far as general scientific ex-
perience goes, this is the essential condition for getting light on any
unexpected effect. Our natural gifts and faculties are not such as to
allow us to observe and note everything that happens on a given
occasion. Natural hmitations make us pick out particular facts
which strike us as salient, and we make our reconstruction of the
event depend upon them. But, if the selection has to be made in a
hurry, and without full warning as to what we are to observe, it is
more than likely that we shall make the wrong selection from the
observable facts : and then om* reconstruction will be altogether
wide of the mark : for we shall lack the essential material for a
correct reconstruction. The success of the conjurer is one of the best
illustrations of this. A good conjurer will almost always refuse to do
a trick over again : or, if he pretends to comply with such a request,
we may be fairly sure that he will really use quite a different method
of producing the same effect : for he knows that if he really repeats
his trick, he gives the observer an enormously improved chance of
picking out the essential facts. What passed muster as a chance
occurrence the first time will not do so again. Attention is concen-
trated on the apparently irrelevant circumstance, and this sets the
observer thinking in the right direction. He arrives at a provisional
hypothesis, and this may suggest to him a further question, to answer
which he requires to see the performance a third time, or even more.
I believe all this will be mwch clearer if it is illustrated by a con-
crete example. As I have said professional conjurers will not repeat
their tricks on request : but the regular performer on a public plat-
form is at a disadvantage in this matter, for his repertoire is limited,
and he must repeat his tricks : so that the earnest seeker after truth
can see them as often as he pleases. For two generations Messrs.
Maskelyne had a regular afternoon exhibition of first-class conjuring :
and a young man of my acquaintance made it a hobby to try to
penetrate their secrets, not always without success. In one of their
tricks a man -was placed on a kind of chair, with his knees doubled
up to his chin. What purported to happen was as follows ; A
canvas cover was placed over him, but the audience could see under-
neath ;
and, moreover, an observer from the audience was behind.
The right hand protruded through a hole in the canvas, and was
touched by a member of the audience. The left arm was held up by
a string attached to a strap buckled round his wrist, and this string
passed out over pulleys to another member of the audience, who
held it taut. At the word go, the right hand was withdrawn, the
string attached to the left wrist became slack, and on removal of
the canvas cover the man had disappeared. Where had he gone to?
152] . Presidential Address 3
My young acquaintance was completely mystified the first time he
saw it. The second time he noticed that during the preliminaries,
the canvas covering, which was extensible concertina fashion, and
was lowered from above, was allowed to fall, as if by accident, to the
floor for a moment, being then pulled up again. He vaguely remem-
bered that the same thing had happened before, but since the right
hand protruded from the opening throughout, he had not doubted
that the man was still there, and had attached no importance to the
incident. But the second time set his mind working, and he was
inclined to regard this as a salient fact. He went home and thought
about it. Was there no possibihty that the man had escaped through
the floor while the canvas was down? Perhaps the hand was not
really his hand, though it was not easy to see how it could be other-
wise. Anjnvay this point could be tested. Next time he went up on
to the stage as an observer from the audience : when invited to
examine the man who was to vanish, to see that he was not a
' collapsible automaton ", my friend took occasion to examine
closely the characteristics of the finger nails of the right hand,
whether they were long or short, clean or dirty, and so on. When
the hand was thrust out for him to hold, he saw at once that it was
not the same. He noticed further that the front legs of the chair
were of hollow metal work—heraldic animals or something of the
sort, so that an arm might readily be thrust through from below the
stage, and allow the hand belonging to it to come out through the
slit in the canvas screen. Thus the mystery was practically ex-
plained, for I need not pause over the details about the other hand.
The moral I wish to emphasise is that the essential facts that the
canvas screen momentarily descended to the ground, and that the
front leg of the chair was big enough to contain a human arm, were
displayed quite openly to the observer. But he did not at first see
that they were at all relevant, and they did not fully penetrate his
consciousness : so that he could not use them in his reconstruction
of the scene, and he reconstructed it in a way that in fact depicted
an impossibility.
The great, and indeed almost the only possible security against
this kind of thing is that the phenomenon under investigation should
be seen again and again, with full consideration between whiles, in
order that any doubtful points in the observer's conception of what
occurred should be noted, and the omission repaired on the next
occasion. 1 I have, for the sake of clearness, used as an illustration
a case where deception was admittedly being practised. But the
^ A cinematograph film of the whole series of events would no doubt be
equivalent.
A 2
4 Lord Rayleigh, Sc.D., LL.D., F.R.S. [part
same applies in all cases when we wish to give an accurate account
of observed matters of fact, even when no question of intentional
deception enters
—
e.g. in the ordinary researches of the physical
laboratory. No experienced worker is satisfied by doing an experi-
ment once ; or even twice. If he sleeps on it, he will usually find
that doubts have arisen by the morning, and he will perhaps repeat
the observation many times, improving the conditions if possible,
so as to concentrate on any weak points which have occurred
to liim.
After a somewhat prolonged study of the early accounts of ob-
servations of physical phenomena, particularly those observed with
D. D. Home, the chief criticism I have to make is that they are
deficient in this regard. Mr Podmore ^ usually emphasises that the
description is inadequate for the reader to judge of what really
happened : and he interprets the omission in the way least favour-
able to the phenomenon : indeed, to my mind, he strains the avail-
able data in this direction, suggesting for example that if a pheno-
menon is not stated to have occurred in the hght, it must be assumed
to have always occurred in the dark. We could easily make mince-
meat of many of the classics of scientific investigation, if we allowed
ourselves to criticise them in this sort of way. Upon the whole, the
observer himself must be the judge of whether he had enough light
to see what he describes, though no doubt an explicit statement
about the hght is desirable. I do not thinlc that an attempt to
reconstruct the inwardness of what occurred from the written
accoimt is likely to be often fruitful, even if it has been so occasion-
ally. It is impracticable to record every condition of a phenomenon
in case it might be wanted. Would anyone draw the moral from
the case I have given above that we must always describe the legs
of the chairs and tables used, or examine finger nails in case these
details might be relevant ? Clearly not. To do this kind of thing
would over-bxirden the account intolerably. The essential thing is
that the observer himself should detect when his account requires to
be supplemented, and himself supply the omission : and he can only
do this if he can get the opportunity to repeat his observation, if
possible under improved conditions.
Upon the whole, the well-known accounts of observations made
in the presence of D. D. Home do not show the observers as alive to
the importance of this ; and so far as they are deficient in this
respect, they are to my mind subject to a heavy discount. Lord
Dunraven indeed tells us that he was brought into contact with
^ Modern Spiritualism, London, 1902 ; and The Newer Spiritiuilism,
London, 1910.
152] Presidential Address 5
Home by accidental circumstances and that he did not feel himself
specially quahfied or inclined to pursue the subject in its scientific
aspect : when the first sensation had worn off, his interest seems to
have diminished.^ The Master of Lindsay (afterwards 26th Earl of
Crawford), one of the other chief observers of D. D. Home's pheno-
mena,^ did not give very systematic accounts of what he had seen.
He gives indeed general assurances that he had been able to satisfy
any doubts he may have originally felt, but he does not seem ever
to have contemplated a detailed dissection of e.g. the phenomenon
of levitation, such as was afterwards made by Dr Crawford of
Belfast.3
When we come to the investigations of Sir William Crookes,* we
find, as might be expected, more attempt at systematic investigation.
Experiments were planned to improve the conditions, and clear up
doubts and obscurities. For example, in reference to " materialisa-
tions " Crookes made repeated attempts to see the medium and the
materialised figure together, and considered that he had succeeded.
This, however, was effectively criticised by Podmore.^ Further, he
took photographs of the " materiaUsed " figure. The unexplained
movements of a pivoted lever obtained in the presence of D. D. Home
were recorded graphically on a smoked glass, and various experi-
mental precautions were taken to improve the conditions under
which the other phenomena were obtained.
Whatever may be thought of its conclusiveness, there is no doubt
that this work represents a definite advance in the spirit in which it
was conducted. It does not go far enough however. As well as can
be judged, much of the time was spent in waiting for fresh marvels,
1 Proceedings, S.P.R., vol. xxxv, pp. 21-25, 1926.
2 Report on Spiritualism of the Committee of the London Dialectical Society/,
London, 1873, pp. 206, 213.
^ I have asked the present Lord Crawford whether any unpubhshed letters
or memoranda of his father's on this matter survive. He kindly made search
but failed to find any. He has also Avritten to me of conversations with his
father, who adhered to the position that he had seen levitation in Home's
presence, but coupled this mth the impression that Home was a charlatan.
It is difficult to know what to make of this, but I think it must tend to discount
the force of his evidence in favour of the phenomena.
It need scarcely be said that the work of the late Dr W. J. Crawford of
Belfast is not comiected in any way with the experiences of the late Lord
Crawford with D. D. Home. The identity of names is merely a coincidence.
* Researches on the Phenomena of Spirituxdism, London, 1874.
^ On the ground that this seance was not in Crookes' house but at the
medium's own home and that the medium might have been personated by a
confederate. See Modern Spiritualism, vol. ii, p. 155.
6 Lord Rayleigh, Sc.D., LL.D., F.R.S. [part
under easy-going conditions, rather than in trying definitely to
confirm and elucidate those already obtained. I am far from saying
that Crookes was to blame for this. It is quite likely that he pressed
the policy of persistent investigation as far as he was allowed. The
same may be said of many subsequent investigators, who would no
doubt have liked to push their enquiries in the direction here advo-
cated, but found that they were not given a chance of doing so.
This brings us to near the close of the epoch of D. D. Home and
his contemporaries. Many striking facts had been recorded, by
apparently trustworthy witnesses. Their evidence has been dis-
cussed at great length by numerous critics, and the utmost has been
done to shake it : but, upon the whole, with only limited success.
The statements then made still constitute a prima facie case for
investigation, and it is hard to see how anything that can be done in
the future, however negative, can altogether destroy the effect of
these records : for failure to repeat can hardly constitute a disproof,
when the identical conditions cannot be re-established.
Up to this point some of my hearers may think that I have been
over lenient, if not credulous, in my estimate of the evidence. Per-
haps what I am now about to say may be a partial corrective. Even
if it should eventually become possible to establish the reahty of
phenomena of this kind to everyone's satisfaction, it wo\ild be of
very little use, unless we could succeed in going further, and fit
them into their proper place in the general scheme of things.
Merely to realise that there are more things in heaven and earth
than are dreamed of in one's philosophy is hardly an end in itself.
The end should be to expand one's philosophy so as to include
them.
Consider the phenomenon of lightning as an illustration. There
has of course never been any doubt about the reality of this, though
in early times it appeared so anomalous and unaccountable that it
was regarded as a direct sign of the anger of the gods. (Then, as
now, there was a tendency to jump to the conclusion that unex-
plained phenomena were to be attributed to the arbitrary action of
invisible beings.) The observed fact did not at all contribute to the
general edifice of scientific knowledge. It lay about like a loose stone
of odd size, and served no purpose, until Frankhn, by his experiment
with a kite, demonstrated that lightning was an electrical pheno-
menon, and thus fitted the loose stone into the general structure.
Builders take no interest in stones of odd size until they can find a
place to fit them into. That gives the key to why our studies are
so little regarded by the scientific world.
152] Presidential Address 7
We may go a step further, and consider the more obscure pheno-
menon of globe lightning, which, as described, consists of detached
balls of fire. My father made reference to this in his presidential
address to the S.P.R. in 1919. Since he wrote, many more cases
have been recorded, and photographs have been published ^ which,
while not altogether in accordance with some of the descriptions,
seem to prove the objective reahty of occurrences having this general
character. But they are scarcely understood any better than before.
The reason of failure is no doubt that we cannot command them at
pleasure so as to devise and carry out experimental tests. That is
the same kind of dijfficulty as we meet with in connexion with our
own problem. Some people think it is in itself a ground for incredu-
hty : but this is a train of thought which I have never been able to
follow. What they probably have at the back of their minds is that
when an effect occurs sporadically, at a time that cannot be foreseen,
it is not likely that the best witnesses will be on the spot, and even
if they are, they may be taken by surprise, and cannot confirm or
revise their impressions of what happened by frequent repetition, as
I hope I have convinced you it is essential to do.
In the early days of the Society much attention was paid to phys-
ical phenomena, and now the spirit of persistent investigation be-
came dominant, largely under the influence of Mrs Sidgwick, and,
later, of Dr Hodgson. The investigation turned chiefly on the ques-
tion of whether control was adequate or not, and did not get much
further. It must be admitted that the results were disappointing,
for after spending much time and trouble, especially in connexion
with the medium Eusapia Paladino, no definite result was arrived
at which commanded the general assent of prominent members. It
was indeed common ground that Eusapia had been caught fraudu-
lently evading control, and almost common ground that she must
have assiduously practised the methods of deception which she used ;
but here agreement ended. Some, including Sir Ohver Lodge, Mr
Everard Feilding, Mr Hereward Carrington and Mr W. W. Baggally,
were convinced that on occasion she exhibited genuine phenomena
of telekinesis and the like. On the other hand Dr Hodgson, Mrs
Sidgwick and Mr Podmore remained unconvinced.
Since those who were concerned with the actual observations were
not able to agree, it is not likely that any subsequent armchair study
will help to clear the matter up. My own feeling is that the effects
which were relied on by the behevers did not differ enough from
those generally admitted to be fraudulent to afford any firm basis
on which to build further.
1 Jensen, Physics, 4, p. 372 (1933).
8 Lord Rayleigh, Sc.D., LL.D., F.R.S. [part
We come next to the investigations of the late Dr W. J. Crawford
of Belfast with Miss Kathleen Goligher as medium.^ Dr Crawford
was a lecturer in mechanical engineering at the Municipal Technical
Institute of Belfast, and from enquiries I have made he seems to
have impressed other scientific mexi favourably. The medium usually
sat with a circle of her own friends and relations, a fact to which due
prominence must be given.
Dr Crawford's work was largely directed to determining the
mechanical reactions of the forces which came into play in the
levitations he observed. For this purpose he placed the medium on
a weighing machine, to determine whether the seat of the reaction
was on her. He worked by the light of a red lamp, of which more
will be said later.
Dr Crawford describes how he was able to have a table weighing
about 10 lbs. levitated and kept steady about eight inches up in the
air for as long as he required to make a test of the addition to the
ordinary weight of the medium. This was two or three minutes,
and apparently he could have had more, for on each occasion he
indicated that he had finished. It was found that the medium
gained weight about equal to that of the table. These steady
conditions could only be obtained after the sitting had continued
for some time.
Dr Crawford interprets this gain of weight by the medium as due
to an invisible cantilever or rigid bracket, which comes out from the
body of the medium, and supports the table. Mrs Sidgwick, in a
review of Dr Crawford's first book, hints that this " cantilever " is
nothing else than the medium's leg. Many statements in Dr Craw-
ford's various publications, however, are definitely at variance with
this hypothesis. Thus {E.P.S., p. 119) " Practically no palpabihty
is experienced when one cuts through the psychic structure with the
hand, or, say, with a piece of wood." ^
Dr Crawford's hypothesis is, however, so fraught with mecha-
nical difficulties that it is questionable whether it really helps much
to correlate the facts he has determined, assuming that these latter
are correct. To begin with, it is almost self-contradictory to postu-
late a structure which is rigid to act as a cantilever, and not rigid
at all for the hand or a piece of wood to pass through it. The
attempt to imagine a medium rigid for some purposes but not for
^ Recorded in his three books : The Reality of Psychic Phenomena, London,.
1919, here referred to as R.P.P. ;
Experiments in Psychical Science, London,.
1919, referred to as E.P.8. ; The Psychic Structures at the Goligher Circle^
London, 1921.
2 See also R.P.P., p. 87.
152] Presidential Address 9
otters is not new to science. Problems of this character arose in
connexion with the elastic solid theory of the luniiniferous ether,
which was to show rigidity for carrying rapid transverse vibrations,
and fluidity to allow sohd bodies, e.g. the earth in its orbit, to pass
through.^ Lord Kelvin at one time appealed to the properties of
bodies Uke hard pitch or cobbler's wax, which while reacting to very
rapidly alternating forces, will yield viscously in time to forces apphed
steadily in one direction. ^ But to satisfy Crawford's hypothesis the
requirement is that there should be great stiffness for persistent
forces, and fluidity for more transient ones. This is too much to ask.
Another difficulty is boldly stated by Dr Crawford {E.P.S., p. 117).
" How can it be ", he says, " that a rigid structure two or three feet
long can issue from the medium's body and support 30 or 40 lbs.
weight at its end, and the medium experience no inconvenience? " ^
Dr Crawford has his own tentative answer to this question, though I
cannot personally feel satisfied by it. But in this and other instances
the candid way in which specific questions are faced produces a
favourable impression, compared with the mere appeal to mysticism
of so many writers on these subjects. Dr Crawford's theory perhaps
raises more difliculties than it answers ;
nevertheless, if work of tliis
kind is ever satisfactorily built into the scientific edifice, I do not
doubt that he will rank as a pioneer.
^ A short explanation of this matter may be useful. When it had been
established that light, like sound, was of the nature of a wave movement, it
was considered necessary to postulate a medium in order to convey it. If the
waves were waves of compression, as is the case of sound travelling in air or
water, then a fluid medium would do, and there would be no particular diffi-
culty in understanding how solid bodies could pass through it. But waves
of compression could not account for the phenomenon called the polarisation
of light. When a ray of light passes through a suitable polariser, such as a
tourmaline crystal, it acquu'es sides " as Sir Isaac Newton expressed it.
It is no longer an indifferent matter if the beam is rotated on its own axis.
We can prove this by a second tourmaline crystal. This will only transmit
the beam if it is placed parallel to the first tourmahne. If crossed with the
first there is no transmission.
Now waves can only give room for effects of this kind if they are transverse
to the direction of propagation. It is clear that there can be nothing of the
sort in compressional waves for in these no one transverse direction can have
preference over any other. It was therefore concluded that the vibrations
were transverse. But (apart from what happens at a free surface) fluids
caimot transmit such waves. Elastic sohds can do so in virtue of their stiffness.
Hence the elastic solid ether.
^ I need scarcely say that the elastic sohd ether is now superseded by quite
a different order of ideas.
^ This of course applied to a different experiment from that already referred
to with the 10 lb. table.
10 Lord Eayleigh, Sc.D., LL.D., F.R.S. [part
Space is lacking to go into further particulars of Dr Crawford's
work. It is necessary to mention that he died by his own hand
before the whole of it was published. I shall return to this point a
little later.
About a year after Dr Crawford's death, the late Dr E. E. Fournier
D'Albe proceeded to Belfast and had a series of sittings with Miss
Goligher, with a view to confirming and extending the work of
Crawford/ which had impressed him favourably. He failed to
obtain any phenomena which he could regard as evidential. It was
apparently admitted that they were not so (p. 43). Although he
expressly reserves the question of whether any of Dr Crawford's
results could be accepted as supernormal it is pretty evident that
he thought they could not be. Towards the end Crawford had
obtained numerous photographs of what he regarded as " psychic
structures " rendered visible under special conditions. They are
published in his last book. The half tone blocks made from these
photographs are undoubtedly very suggestive of pieces of muslin
or the like, hung from the bottom of the table or knotted on to
its legs. Fournier gives similar pictures of much better defini-
tion published as actual photographic prints, not half tone blocks,
and I fully agree with him that they show the material to be a
woven product. This is the most damaging feature in the Avhole
case.
Fournier also tells in detail how he saw the medium raising a stool
with her extended foot. Fournier worked as far as possible under
the same conditions as Crawford. He had the same circle of sitters,
and in one instance actually held the sitting in Dr Crawford's house.
He also used the identical appliances, lent by Mrs Crawford. These
circumstances are of some importance because they show that she
remained on friendly terms with the medium, and can scarcely have
attributed Dr Crawford's collapse to his having been ultimately
convinced that the medium had deceived him. Dr Crawford stated
in his posthumous letter that this was not the reason of his break-
down, and I, for one, accept his statement.
No really valid reason seems to be known for doubting the candour
and accuracy of either Fournier or Crawford, so far as they are
describing what they themselves observed. Fournier says (pp. 48,
49) : "I have no reason to doubt the conscientious and accurate
character of Dr Crawford's observations and records."
Fournier thinks that Crawford was too soon convinced that all
was well, and relaxed his vigilance prematurely. But Crawford's
letters written during the last few months of his life, and given by
1 The Goligher Circle, London, 1922.
152] Presidential Address 11
¥ouriiier (pp. 66-70), negative tliis view, for they are full of details
of the various precautions which he took.
Fournier emphasises strongly that the shadow of the table afforded
protection for fraudulent manipulation, but there are passages in
Crawford's books which seem to be a complete answer on the point.
Thus (R.P.P., p. 13) :
" Even with the largest table it is sometimes
possible to see completely underneath (as I have done), to see the
feet and bodies of all present at rest, and hands held together in
chain order, while the table has been steadily levitated."
Again {Psychic Strtictures, p. 8) : "A strong red Hght was falling
upon the space below the levitated table while another source of red
light was showing from behind so that the whole area between the
medium and the levitated table was itself quite \'isible, and I sliifted
my position into various positions in the circle, looking at the space
below the table from different angles. But to all appearance the
space was empty. ..."
If we accept this statement as being, in Fournier's own words,
" conscientious and accurate," I think it is clear that his criticism
fails.
Fournier says (p. 49) :
" The tests to which he [Crawford] sub-
mitted the medium completely satisfied him as to her bo'na fides so
that he no longer thought it necessary to control the other sitters as
well." It is, however, instructive to compare this with a passage
from Crawford (R.P.P., p. 16) :
" The experiments in Chapter III
show conclusively that while the table is steadily levitated nearly
the whole of its weight is upon the medium. Therefore it follows
that if anyone is hfting the table with any part of his body, it is the
medium, and the others are not concerned."
Moreover Crawford states {R.P.P., p. 81) that he was allowed to
move anywhere between the sitters and the levitated table except
immediately infront of the medium. If this statement too is accepted
as " conscientious and accurate ", it is difficult to see the force of
Fournier's remarlv above quoted, in which he suggests fraud of the
sitters as the factor neglected by Crawford : the more so that he
claims to have seen " levitation " achieved by the medium's foot.
Fournier does not seem to have really made up his mind whether
the table was fraudulently raised by the medium, or fraudulently
raised by the sitters.
I must frankly admit that I am unable to sum up this case to my
satisfaction. Fournier does not profess to discuss Crawford's work
in detail, and he seems tacitly to admit that for all he can say some
part of it may have been correct, though he evidently does not
think so. Crawford's pubhcations contain a complete answer to
12 Lord Rayleigh, Sc.D., LL.D., F.R.S. [part
Fournier's general objections, and I am unfavourably impressed by
Fournier's failure to notice this. On the other hand, Fournier does
seem to have proved that the medium was on occasion fraudulent.
It is difficult to understand what could have been her motive in
continuing to deceive Crawford for the first three years, during
which there was no payment. It is also difficult to discount either
witness. Crawford is confirmed on the main points by several other
observers.^ Fournier stands alone, but produced his photographs,
showing the woven texture of what purports to be a " psychic
structure ". Both records are very satisfactory in point of detail
and internal consistency, standing far above the available accounts
of D. D. Home in this respect ; and the very matter-of-fact style of
Crawford's narrative makes any idea of hallucination seem alto-
gether out of place. In this unsatisfactory position I must leave the
case.
Finally, I come to Rudi Schneider. A great deal has been written
on this medium, much of it of a polemical character. It would be
tedious and unprofitable to go over this in detail, and discussion
must be hmited to the work of MM. Eugene and Marcel Osty in
Paris, ^ passing over other investigations with the remark that I am
not convinced by the evidences of fraud which have been put
forward. I shall, however, give due consideration to the question of
whether fraud could have affected MM. Osty's results.
MM. Osty initially fixed their attention on the phenomenon of
telekinesis, or moving of objects by an unknown agency in the pre-
sence of the (controlled) medium. It is generally known that a beam
of hght can be used to guard a treasure, a warning bell being rung
when a potential thief approaches too near and intercepts the beam.
The method depends on an obvious application of the photoelectric
cell, a device which passes an electric current when light falls upon
it.3
Now it occurred to MM. Osty that by using a beam of infra-red
hght instead of visual light the method could be carried out in a
dark seance room and that the object (flower, handkerchief and the
like), proposed for telekinesis could be guarded by the beam, so that
if the medium succeeded in escaping from the controller who was by
^ See in particular Whately Smith, Proceedings S.P.R., vol. xxx, p. 314,
1920.
^ Les Pouvoirs Inconnus de UEsprit sur la Matiere, Paris, 1932.
^ It is necessary of course to arrange a relay to switch the bell current on
when the photoelectric current is cut off.
152] Presidential Address 13
way of holding him, and attempted to seize the handkerchief in
order to move it, a bell would ring and give warning.
It was found in fact that the bell did ring on frequent occasions-
when the medium was, or purported to be, in trance. The ringing
was sometimes maintained for half a minute or even a minute.
Flashlight photographs were taken while the bell was ringing, and
they revealed the medium sitting in his usual hunched position, with
his head sunk forward, his hands held, and his knees between the
knees of the controller. Nothing was to be seen in the path of the
infra-red beam.
It seems therefore that whatever it was that obstructed the beam,
it was not an ordinary solid obstacle. Whatever its nature, it
seemed to fade away under the influence of ordinary light : for
lateral illumination of the beam, although it did not reveal anything,
had the effect of promptly stopping the ringing of the bell.
Although the infra-red beam was intercepted as if something was
trying to reach the handkerchief or other object, the latter was not
often moved, and the experimenters wisely decided to abandon this
as a primary object of study, and to concentrate attention on the
phenomenon that was more easily obtained, namely the obscuration
of the infra-red ray. The bell was replaced by a galvanometer with
a photographic recording drum adapted to give a continuous graph
of the deflections. The obscurations previously indicated by the
bell were now photographed on the drum, which gave a record of
intensity and duration.
After the work had been in progress for some time the ordinary
galvanometer which had been in use was replaced by one of quick
period (yg- sec.) with the view of examining in more detail how the
obscuring action set in. [I must explain for the benefit of readers
not versed in physics that scientific measuring instruments are not
eftective for recording changes appreciably more rapid than their
own free period of vibration. Instruments of long period are too
sluggish to follow quick changes.] With the quick acting galvano-
meter, a very significant fact was noticed. When the ray was
(partially) obscured, it was seen that the galvanometer spot moved
in sympathy with the loud and rapid breathing of the entranced
medium. The expiration and the inspiration each involved a
muscular effort : and the number of obscurations of the infra-red
ray corresponded with the number of these muscular efforts. It
was clear therefore that the obscuring action was connected directly
or indirectly with the medium's muscular processes. This fact alone
seems to rule out confederacy.
When the above relations had been recognised arrangements
14 Lord Rayleigh, Sc.D., LL.D., F.R.S. [part
were made for automatically recording the motions of the medium's
chest on the same chart as the infra-red absorptions. Several such
charts are reproduced by the authors, and allow the frequency
relation to be verified. For example when the infra-red absorp-
tion has a frequency of 5 per second, the breathing has a frequency
of 2-5 per second.^
These graphs published by MM. Osty are in my view one of the
most valuable contributions ever made to our subject. The critics
who have discussed their work adversely appear to me to have
totally failed to face up to them : indeed many of the criticisms that
I have seen are completely answered in advance by the original
publication, so that it hardly seems worth while to answer them
further. The great value of the graphs is that they carry their own
tale, and that every student can examine them for himself, nearly as
well as the original experimenters could do. The destructive critics
have here an unrivalled field for the exercise of their talents, but so
far they have not made any effective use of it.
I have read a criticism which suggests that Schneider made
fraudulent use of the phenomenon of resonance. It is suggested
that he timed his breathings in such a way that the movements of
his body were in unison with the free period of swing of one of the
supports of the apparatus. It is assumed that a large oscillation of
the support was worked up in this way, enough to secure that only
part of the beam entered the photo electric cell, thus simulating an
absorption. I do not say that a suspicion of this kind is unreasonable
prima facie. On the contrary, it is the sort of thing that constantly
haunts the night thoughts of the careful experimentahst, and should
cause him to look to the supports in the morning, and to see whether
a vibration can in fact be worked up in the way suggested. Unfor-
tunately that sort of test can only be applied at the time : but there
are other tests which can be applied to the graphic records. One
point is that, on the view suggested, the frequency recorded must be
rigidly equal to the frequency of the free vibrations of the support,
and therefore constant as long as the arrangements are unaltered.
This test is not satisfied. For example,^ on June 11, 1931, at 22 h.
49 m. the rate was 5 absorptions a second, and three minutes later,
the rate was 8 absorptions a second.
Another point is that on this hypothesis the mechanical oscillation
is gradually worked up, and therefore that its effect progressively
increases. The successive absorptions ought to increase regularly in
1 Complete periods are always referred to, e.g. in breathing, from the begin-
ning of one inspiration to the beginning of the next inspiration.
^ loc. cit., p. 125.
152] Presidential Address 15
amplitude and then gradually die down. But when we examine the
graphs, we find nothing of the kind. In the first absorption of a
series they have an average value, and exceptionally large absorp-
tions occur quite sporadically, and not as a culmination. So far from
dying down gradually, in one case the very last absorption is much
the most intense.
In various criticisms it is suggested that Schneider had a con-
federate in the room, or that he succeeded in evading control. In
some investigations, for example, those concerned with Eusapia
Paladino, such questions were fundamental. I do not think they
are so here. It is useless to suggest that Schneider might have
evaded control unless that will help us to explain how he could have
produced the periodic absorption at this very high frequency, in
exact time with his breathings. Again, as regards the hypothesis of
confederacy, I have already pointed out that the connexion with
his breathings indicate that he, and not a confederate, is producing
the effects.
The point that specially appeals to me is that we have a definite
correlation between two phenomena, the deep breaths taken by the
medium, and the absorptions of the infra-red ray, which correlation
depends on a very large number of repetitions of each phenomenon.
So much of what has been done in this field, however earnest the
attempts of the experimenters, has only led to casual and sporadic
observations ; not helping, so to speak, to connect any two pieces
of the puzzle. Here, however, two pieces of it are definitely con-
nected : the loud rapid breathing and the periodic infra-red
absorptions.
If it is objected that this connexion is a trick carefully arranged
by Schneider, we must remember that the connexion itself was not
perceived until well on in the investigation a quick period reflecting
galvanometer of the necessary high sensitivity was procured. This
is an out-of-the-way instrument (I doubt whether most University
professors of physics were aware that such an instrument was on
the market, at any rate I was not aware of it), and even when it
was procured the above connexion was only noticed accidentally.
To suppose that Schneider knew about quick period reflecting
galvanometers, and laid his plans in anticipation of this sequence
of events, would on the whole be absurd.
What, it will be asked, is the nature of the substance or agency
that obscured the infra-red ray in these experiments? Is it the
same as the material of the " psychic structures " in Crawford's
experiments? Or is it identical with the " ectoplasm " of which
we have heard so much? Lam afraid I must decline to enter upon
16 Lord Rayleigh, Sc.D., LL.D., F.R.S. [part
these questions, which are altogether premature. I am not sure
"that Crawford's condusions are correct, and I do not know of any
^ observations on ectoplasm under really satisfactory conditions. We
•can and probably shall speculate about it in our own minds : but
the Society's pubhcations should not be encumbered with guess
Avork. What is wanted is an independent repetition of Osty's
•experiments.
In the meantime, it is necessary to emphasise what seems to be.
-a serious difficulty, when we come to consider the properties which
Dr Osty finds in the invisible substance.
So far as we may claim to know anything about the action of
light, I think we may say that it cannot modify matter without
being absorbed in the process. Many illustrations of this principle
might be given, but I will limit myself to one. Ordinary photo-
graphic plates are sensitive to blue light : and corresponding to this
we find that the sensitising substance, bromide of silver, absorbs
blue hght. On the other hand, yellow and red light are not absorbed,
and we find that the plate is not sensitive to these kinds of hght.
We may make it sensitive to them by staining it with certain dyes.
But in doing so we have introduced an absorbing power for red and
yellow light, so that the principle still holds.
Dr Osty's whole investigation depends on the fact that infra-red
rays are absorbed by the " invisible substance ". He considers that
under the condition that prevailed this absorption was effective for
waves of length l/t (fi=Tooo of a milhmetre) upwards, and he
emphasises that shorter waves were not absorbed,^ though he thinks
that under other and better conditions they might be.
Further, the fact that the substance is " invisible " shows that it
does not absorb ordinary visual light. If it did so, as, e.g. iodine
vapour does, it could not of course be invisible, but would be seen
•dark on a luminous background. Or if it absorbed by lateral
scattering, like an ordinary aqueous mist, it would itself appear as
.a bright cloud when illuminated.
But if the substance does not absorb visible light, how can it be
that visible light destroys it, or at all events makes it ineffective ?
^
If we accept the principle which I have explained, that light can
•only modify a substance when that substance absorbs it, then an
invisible substance cannot be destroyed by visual light. Until this
paradox is cleared up, it cannot be said that we are standing on
firm ground.
1 Myers Memorial Lecture, 1933. Supernormal Aspects of Energy and
Matter, p. 21.
^ See above, p. 13.
152] Presidential Address 17
The supernormal knowledge which, as all real students of the
subject are now pretty well agreed, is shown by some mediums in
trance, is largely admixed with incorrect or nonsensical matter, or
with the attempt to get information from the sitter by " fishing
"
and attempting to pass it off as supernormally acquired. It is an
empirical fact that the attempt (whether genuine or fraudulent) to
produce apparently supernormal physical happenings frequently
accompanies these trance utterances, and the trance personahty
without doubt wishes to claim the credit of having produced them.
If we accept the view that these are occasionally genuine, then it
would be natural to regard the fraudulent tricks played in trance
as having the same relation to the genuine phenomena as the worth-
less utterances have to those which show supernormal knowledge.
The trance personahty, we may suppose, is wilhng to dehver genuine
goods, whether of the mental or physical kind : but if not successful
in doing so, it will produce the fraudulent ones rather than none at
aU.
This hne of thought, it seems to me, should make us less ready
than we otherwise might be to at once discard all phenomena pro-
duced by a medium who has once been detected in fraud. If we
had at once discarded the whole series of trance utterances or
automatic writings in which one misstatement of fact had been de-
tected, the Society's labours would have been less fruitful than we
venture to hope they actually have been.
I am incUned to sum up by saying that while a great part of what
has been reported under this head, e.g. slate writing, materialisation
of complete figures, is fraud, deliberately prepared by impudent
imposters, and having nothing to do with the phenomena of trance,
yet there is another part intimately bound up with the trance per-
sonality. Much of this latter is likewise fraudulent, but there seems
to be an appreciable residue which has not been successfully dis-
solved by the acid of destructive criticism which has been so freely
poured over it. The evidence seems to stand, and if we dogmatically
reject it we shall be open to the reproach of laying down what ought
to be the order of nature, instead of observing what is. If it is
difficult to reconcile with our other notions, that may only be
because these require to be revised or extended. Physical science
has had to make adjustments of that kind often enough in the last
few decades, and it would be rash to conclude that we have reached
finahty. But if adjustment is really necessary it will hardly be
made until we have the phenomena under control for detailed
examination to a much greater extent than has usually been
attained. The investigators have usually been driven to give in to
18 Lord EayleigJi, Sc.D., LL.D., F.R.S. [part 152]
every whim of the trance personahty, to submit to producing noise,
and to wait for interminable hours in the darkness. They have been
threatened with dire results if they ventured to touch, or examine
without permission. It is almost impossible to find out anything
definite under these conditions : and I cannot but agree with Dr
W. F. Prince and others who have insisted that it is a waste of time
and energy to attempt it any more. That better conditions are not
impossible of attainment, the work of Crawford and of Osty seems,
to show : and if the present unsatisfactory condition of affairs is to
be bettered, it can only be by following the example which they
have set. It would be of the utmost value to obtain independent
confirmation of their results.
In this address I have tried to be strictly fair. It will perhaps be
felt that the result is an unsatisfactory halting between two opinions.
I must admit that in the course of study my estimate of the evidence
has in several instances tended to become less favourable as I
proceeded. Nevertheless, in some cases I am still quite unable to
form any probable guess as to how the investigators could have
been deceived.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 153
THE QUESTION OF LIGHTS SUPPOSED TO HAVE
BEEN OBSERVED NEAR THE POLES OF A MAGNET
By Lord Rayleigh, Sc.D., LL.D., F.R.S.
A QUOTATION from Sir WiUiam Barrett (1924) will fitly introduce the
present discussion. He says :
" Personally I am very anxious that earnest attention should be
given to the so-called Reichenbach Phenomena, wherein certain
sensitives after long immersion in complete darkness perceive a
luminosity emanating from the poles of a magnet, and also from the
human fingers. I have published in the Philosophical Magazine, and
also in the early volumes of our own Proceedings, the experiments
which led me to the conviction that such phenomena do really occur
under suitable conditions." ^
When Barrett speaks of " perceiving ", he seems to mean visual
perception which makes use of the physiological mechanism of the
eye. There are several definite reasons for interpreting him in this
way. One is the mention of long rest in the darkness. It is, of course,
well known that visual perception becomes more acute after such
rest, which may be prolonged with advantage up to at least half an
hour. Secondly he uses in some of his experiments the test of inter-
posing an opaque screen between the magnet and the observer,
which was thought to cut off the elfect. If the perception in question
were of an extra-sensory nature, there would seem to be no point in
either rest in the dark or use of an opaque screen. Further it would
1 Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXIV, p. 290. 1924. The earlier papers referred to
are : Proc. S.P.B., Vol. I, pp. 99-100, and Phil. Mcu]. (fifth series). Vol. XV,
p. 27. April 1883. Reichenbach's original " Researches " are known to me in
a translation by Gregory, London 1850. They are quite nneritical.
B 19
20 The Question of Lights supposed to have been [part
be hard to explain the pain in the eyes experienced by one of the
observers from the strain of watching in the darlj.
The mention of " sensitives " suggests that some persons are able
to see much fainter lights than others. We are reminded of the
" hyperaesthesia " sometimes invoked to explain away apparently
successful experiments in telepathy. We may at this point usefully
ask what evidence there is that some persons have a far better
vision for the perception of faint hghts than others ? It is probable
that young eyes tend to be better than old ones in this respect.
Further, it is certain that some persons are " night blind But
such cases are definitely pathological. I have not been able to find
or hear of cases of very exceptional sensitiveness, but if anyone
claims to be able to see the Reichenbach phenomenon, he should
certainly be tested with ordinary lights to determine whether, and
if so in what degree, his power of detecting faint sources exceeds the
ordinary. Further discussion of this point is given below.
Barrett proposed the use of a photographic test, and speaks of
some preliminary experiments in this direction but he does not give
the impression that the test was pushed to anywhere near its limits.
We know definitely that the modern (panchromatic) plate can detect
all the radiations to which the eye is sensitive, and some others (ultra
violet and X-rays) as well. The general experience of astronomers
shows that when dealing with faint sources photographic exposures
of a few hours reveal much more than the eye can see. It appeared
worth while therefore to put the question to a more severe test than
has hitherto been applied.
The luminous appearances described purport to be seen in the air
near the poles of the magnet, and if the problem is regarded as
susceptible of scientific treatment at all, it would seem hard to escape
from the conclusion that the luminosity is conditioned by the inten-
sity of the magnetic field, and by its depth in the direction of vision.
Electro magnets have certain advantages, but a permanent magnet
was preferred. It has the great merit that the plate can be exposed
to it for any length of time without maintenance, and with no possible
complication arising from the heat of the exciting current, which
might possibly lead to certain spurious effects.
It is true that an electro magnet is more powerful, but the modern
magnet steels have enormously increased the power of permanent
magnets, so as largely to discount this consideration.
In the experiments I am about to describe, I used a permanent
magnet of the kind used for loud speakers (Figs. 1 and 2). It was
kindly given me by the Atlas and Norfolk Works, Sheffield, through
the kind interest of Dr W, H, Hatfield, F.R.S., and was made of the
22 The Question of Lights supposed to have been [part
cobalt magnet steel developed by them. The narrow gap between
the poles in magnets of this type is advantageous, since the magnetic
force there is very intense, being only a few times less than the
maximum attainable with powerful electro magnets.
Fig. 1 shows the face of the magnet. Fig. 2 shows a section through
two of the four arms.
The north pole iV is constituted by the central circular piece, and
the south pole by the edge of the ring-shaped aperture in which N
hes. The narrow gap between them is the region of intense magnetic
force.
It is 26 mm. (about 1 inch) diameter and 1-2 mm. breadth. The
flux density in the gap was 8000 hues per square cm., and the depth
of the gap 6-5 mm. The magnet was placed in a light-tight box in a
dark cellar, and the photographic plate laid on it (P, Fig. 2), with a
thin film of celluloid sheet C in between. This, however, was not
used at first.
Laying a " hypersensitive " panchromatic plate directly on the
magnet, and exposing for a month, nothing could be detected on
development. But on giving a five months' exposure a dark ring
appeared on the developed plate corresponding to the size of the
circular gap ; and I thought at first that it might possibly represent
the effect that was being sought. On further examination a similar
darkening was noticed in the region outside the magnet, and also
opposite the screwed holes intended for attaching other parts to the
magnet (these holes are indicated in Fig. 1). These regions are not
the seat of magnetic force, and therefore the darkening is to be
referred to some other cause. It is known that certain vapours give
rise to a chemical action on the photographic plate, simulating the
action of light : and in long exposures effects of this kind are always
to be feared.^ For our present purpose it is not necessary to discuss
them further. The point is that part of the plate was protected by
contact with the planed face of the steel magnet, and that the other
parts not so protected were blackened.
To guard against this, a sheet of thin cellophane was placed be-
tween the magnet and the photographic film so as to cover the latter
all over, and protect it from free access of vapours. Another ex-
posure of five months was given and the result was definitely nega-
tive. No trace whatever of the circular area where the magnetic
force subsists could be seen on the plate.
It would scarcely be practicable to carry out a much more drastic
test than this one. It may occur to some readers to ask why the
1 See W. J. Russel. Froctediiigs of the Royal Society, Vol. 63, p. 102, 1898;
Vol. 64, p. 409, 1899.
153] observed near the Poles of a Magnet 23
plate was placed in immediate juxtaposition to the supposedly
luminous layer, instead of using a photographic camera and lens in
the ordinary way. Accepted optical principles show that the method
actually adopted is far the best for making the most of a faint light.
In order to test the value of the photographic experiment and to
compare it with what can be done visually, trials were made with
a source which really is faintly luminous, the luminosity being fairly
distributed through the visual spectrum. This source consists of
potassium-uranyl sulphate—a substance the luminescence of which
is permanently maintained under the stimulus of its own shght
radioactivity—on the same principle as the luminous compound used
for watch dials, though the light is much fainter. To reduce the
brightness to near the limit of visibility, the substance was finely
powdered. It was tightly packed in a flat metal box of three inches
diameter with a glass lid, and not afterwards disturbed.
This source took two hours to produce a definite photographic
impression of a black paper stencil, the plate being put right up to it,
with the stencil between.^
For comparison with the photographic result, the same faint
source could be observed visually. The intensity could be pro-
visionally reduced by means of sheets of perforated zinc gauze of
varying opacities. Three such were provided, coarse, medium and
fine. The scale of intensities (determined by a photoelectric method)
was as follows :
Intensity Nvntber of Observers
Gauze (relative value) in the Class
None - - - - 100 (assumed) 2
Coarse - - - - 71 8
Medium - - - - 55 22
Fine - - - - 34 8
Fine + Coarse - - - 24 0
At these low intensities the structure of the gauzes could not be
discerned. They only produced a uniform darkening of the visual
field. The observers were asked to take the source and gauzes with
them on retiring for the night ; to observe only after being at least
forty minutes in the dark ; and to report what was the least intensity
which they could be quite sure of seeing.
Since the unscreened source required two hours exposure for a
photographic impression, the source screened with the fine gauze,
which represents the faintest light that any of my observers can see,
1 It may occur to some readers to ask whether the radioactivity of the sub-
stance might not have vitiated the photographic test. The glass cover was,
however, thick enough to ehminate any error from this cause.
B2
24 The Question of Lights near the Poles of a Magnet [part 153
should require "2 x hours, or say six hours, to produce one.^
Actually the exposure given to the magnet was one hundred and
fifty days, which is 600 times more.
We find then that the photographic plate as applied is 600 times
more effective than even the best visual observers that were met
with in this work. The photographic plate cannot detect any
luminosity ; and it seems quite certain that the claim that any
visual observer can do so is imjustified.
The results, given in the last column of the table, do not encourage
the idea that there are such people as " sensitives " who can see
much fainter light than the ordinary man. The largest class are
those who could see intensity 55 on my scale. A few could see
intensity 34. No one could see intensity 24.
We do not expect to encounter people of even double the ordinary
height. Still less should we expect to find people with hundreds of
times the ordinary capacity for seeing faint lights.
There are strong a priori objections to a belief in the Reichenbach
effect, and also particularly to the claim of some of the observers
that they could distinguish between the poles by the colour or
extent of the luminosity : for in all well tested magnetic phenomena,
the poles differ in their behaviour only in respect of sign. But I
wished to avoid judging the question on a priori grounds.
The experiments are regarded as definitely disproving the alleged
effect. Had there been a luminosity, it could not have failed to come
into evidence, even though very much fainter than anything the
eye could detect.
In conclusion, we may perhaps ask why the question should have
ever been considered to be within the domain of psychical research
at all ? The earlier workers do not appear to have quite fairly faced
the question of whether they supposed the perception to be sensory
or extra-sensory, though for the reasons explained above, it seems to
me that on theii' own showing they should have pronounced for
the former. This point seems to have been left rather nebulous, and
there was thus room for the old ideas about some mysterious rapport
between the magnet and human personahty, which dates from the
time of Mesmer, but which has never been satisfactorily proved to
have any foundation.
1 This is on the assumption that for a given photographic density the ex-
posure time is in inverse ratio to the luminous intensity. This law is nearly
enough true for the present jjurpose.
A SERMON IN ST PAUL'S ^
By Mrs W. H. Salter
Between the years 1903 and 1908 my father, the late Professor
A. W. Verrall of Cambridge, published three essays on the Latin poet
Statius, whom Dante in the Purgatorio (XXI and XXII) declared
to have been a convert to Christianity. These essays originally
appeared in different magazines, but in 1913, after my father's death,
they were reprinted in a collection of his essays entitled " Literary
Essays, Classical and Modern '".
To two of these essays {To Follovj
the Fisherman and Dante on the Baptism of Statius) there were
allusions in Mrs Willett's scripts of 1912 and 1913 which were the
subject of a paper read by Lord Balfour (then Mr Gerald Balfour)
to the Society on March 27, 1914, and afterwards piibHshed in
Volume XXVII of Proceedings, pp. 221-243. It is with my father's
third essay, The Altar of Mercy, first published in 1907 in the Oxford
and Cambridge Review, that the present paper is more particularly
concerned.
To make the point of the paper clear it will be necessary to say a
word about Statius and to quote some passages from The Altar of
Mercy. Statius, who was born near Naples, then the centre of Greek
culture in Italy, Hved in the latter half of the first century a.d., and
his principal work, The Thebaid, an epic in twelve books, describes
the war of the Seven Against Thebes. Half-way through the poem
the invading army reach the river Asopus, which forms the frontier
of Thebes, and finding it swollen, hesitate to cross it : to this passage
Dante refers when making Statius describe his own hesitation to
receive baptism. In the two essays referred to by Lord Balfour in
his paper, my father had suggested that Dante wished to draw a
parallel between the delay of the invaders in staying on the other
side of the Asopus and the delay of Statius in " staying on the other
side " of the river of baptism. Allusions to this point were prominent
in Mrs Willett's script.
The invaders are defeated with great slaughter and the victorious
Thebans refuse to allow their bodies to be buried. The widows of the
slain repair for justice to Athens, where, says Statius {Thebaid XII),
is an Altar of Mercy {dementia).
^ This paper was read at a Private Meeting of the Society on September 29,
1937.
25
26 lirs W. H. Salter [part
" In the midst of the city was an Altar, pertaining not to Might,
nor the powers thereof, but to gentle Mercy. Mercy there had fixed
her seat and Misery made it holy. Thither new suppliants came ever
without fail, and found acceptance all. . . .
" The ritual takes no tax, accepts no incense-flame, no drench of
blood, but only the dew of tears upon the stone, and the shorn hair
of the mourner for a wreath above, and for drapery the cast robe
which sorrow puts away. . . .
" Image there is not any ; to no mould of metal is trusted that
Form Divine, who loves to dwell in minds and hearts. . . .
" The legend is that it was the children of Hercules who founded
the sanctuary, in the city whose warriors protected them when their
sire had passed from the pyre to the sky.
" So the tale sayeth, but sayeth not worthily. Rather should we
believe that it was those Visitants from Heaven whom Athens had
ever made welcome to her soil."
(The above are extracts from my father's translation. Literary
Essays, p. 227.)
The essay called The Altar of Mercy is a commentary on this pas-
sage of Statius's poem. Since allusions have been made in scripts
which I shall have occasion to mention to parts of the essay, I shall
now quote, as briefly as possible, the relevant passages :
" What is sohd and evident, what leaps to the eye, is the sentiment
of the whole passage, the spirit, the general conception of religion
from which it proceeds. For this there is only one suitable word. It
is exactly that sentiment to which Christianity appealed. To console
the miserable and guilty, to heal the wounds of the world and the
sense of sin—these are the offices of that Altar to which Statins
directs the worship of Manliind. '
I will have mercy and not sacri-
fice '
;
'
Come unto Me all ye that labour and are heavy-laden '
: for
such inscriptions and such only, the shrine of his imagination is
prepared. . . .
" For the venerable legend associated with it, the story of Hercules
and his children, he has nothing but scorn. The Altar of his thought
was not founded by the children of Hercules, nor in fact by any
earthly hand. Like other such emblems of aspiration, it was '
never
built at all, and therefore built for ever '.
. . .
" And in the thought of the poet it stands alone. We cannot mjss
nor misunderstand the sweeping depreciation by which, in com-
parison with this Deity of the Soul, and with the uncostly sacrifice of
a broken heart, the whole art and ritual of polytheistic superstition
are waved away. . . .
" It is certainly not from the actual leaders of the Christian move-
153] A Sermcni in St PauVs 27
ment that we shall learn to depreciate the importance of its relation
to that species of thought whose ideal centre was the Areopagus of
Athens. '
Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, Him declare I
imto you. ... Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are
exceedingly God-fearing.' To an exhaustive commentary on these
words, and upon the discourse which follows them no small contribu-
tion should be furnished by the Thebaid."
My father was born on February 5, 1851, and on February 5,
1912, the ilhiess from which he had long been suffering took a
decided and noticeable turn for the worse ; he died on June 18 of the
same year. For a double reason therefore February 5 was a memor-
able day in his Hfe, and for the remaining years of my mother's life,
that is the years 1913 to 191G inclusive, she made a practice of
seeking to obtain automatic writing on each February 5, and also on
the 4th and 6th. The scripts so produced form a natural group,
being united both by the intentions of the automatist, and by inter-
nal links which I could not within the scope of this paper completely
set out. I wish, however, to emphasise this matter of internal link-
age. The point has been made that evidence of any supernormal
content in the scripts is weakened, if not destroyed, by arbitrary
selection of a few scripts, regarded as relevant, from a large irrelevant
mass. This objection would be valid, if the scripts tmre arbitrarily
selected. But this is not the case. The problem as it presents itself
to the student of scripts is this : here are a number of scripts which
are obviously and normally linked together, e.g. by date, or by the
repetition in them of a phrase or topic which does not occur else-
where in the general mass of scripts. Taking these scripts as a
natural group, do we find in them any evidence of supernormal
cognisance or intent ? This question has been discussed by Mr J. G.
Piddington in Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXXIII, pp. 443ff.
As I am now about to quote from my mother's scripts, I wish to
make it perfectly clear that I do not consider the fact that the scripts
refer to events in my father's Hfe or to passages in his books as in any
way supernormal or even remarkable. I quote them as they are
part of a story the significance of which flows from the actions of
other persons.^
M. V. script of February 4, 1913, opens with these words :
^ It should, however, be noted that my mother frequently did not herself
recognise that her scripts were referring to passages in my father's writings and
I beUeve she never recognised that she had alluded to The Altar of Mercy. I
believe this tendency of automatists not to see in their own productions a
meaning which is subsequently recognised by others is of common occurrence.
28 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
Oranges and lemons—and the rhyme in St Clemens—San Clemente
with the mosaics. No wait—you have it wrong Clementia et
misericordia sorores [Mercy and Pity sisters].
A later script of April 5, 1914, opens with the words :
Oranges and lemons say the bells of St Clements St Clements Danes
and the name of this church is repeated a few lines later in the same
script. My mother associated the name with " Danes Inn " (in the
neighbourhood of the church), where my father resided for three
years. The script therefore combines three references to my father:
in the date, in the imphed allusion to Danes Irm, and in the word
" Clementia ", the name Statins gives to the Deity to whom the
Altar of Mercy was dedicated. The word " mosaics " recurs in the
scripts next to be quoted.
M. V. script of February 6, 1914, begins as follows :
Pen or feather—penna—the wings of the dove—silver and gold
And one of Michael Angelo's prophets holds a great pen—Combine
that with the " twain " with which he covered his face. I think I
have now made clear what was not understood in a script of yours
of long ago, about St Mark's golden-tipped pen which wrote with-
out his conscious aid.
The script of long ago was one written by my mother in October
1905 in which mention was made of an angel giving St Mark a
winged pen. In her script of February 6, 1914, there is, it is true,
no explicit reference to mosaics, but I shall presently explain why
there may well be an imphcit one. But before doing so I will quote
the last of this series of birthday scripts, my mother's script of
February 4, 1915
:
Till I have built Jerusalem in England's green and pleasant land.
There is still much building to be done—building without hands
—
for the City that will be an abiding City the true eternal City
crowned with the olive wreath. Fortress and fostress of sons born
free [Swinburne's Erechtheua] Combine these ideas The Roman Im-
perial City and the free Athens.
This script, like the twelfth book of Statius's poem presents the
picture of an idealised Athens, and in the words " building without
hands ", taken in conjunction with an earlier script of my mother's,
January 21, 1913, which speaks of "an altar not made with hands ",
there seems to be a clear reference to the passage in which my father
says of the Altar of Mercy that "Like other such emblems of
aspiration it was '
never built at all, and therefore built for ever ' ".
That there should be references to my father and his writings in
153] A Sermon in St PcmVs 29
my mother's scripts is. as I have said, nothing extraordinary, but it
is, I think, curious, in view of facts shortly to be related, that the
" birthday scripts
"'
of 1913 and 1915 both alluded to a particular
essay, The Altar ofMercy, and that the scripts of the intervening year
contain allusions which my mother, as the sequel shows, connected
with a mosaic of St Mark in St Paul's Cathedral.
In quoting from a script of 1915 I have departed from the chrono-
logical order to which I now return.
On March 24, 1914, my mother, who was staying at Guildford
with a friend, came to Woking in order that Lord Balfour might read
privately to her the paper already mentioned in which are discussed
references in Mrs Willett's scripts to my father's essays To Follow the
Fisherman and Dante on the Baptism of Statins. This paper was to
be read at a meeting of the Society at 4 p.m. on March 27, 1914.
My mother did not feel inchned to be present at a meeting at which
evidence of my father's post mortem agency was to be presented and
discussed, but she wished to attend the Council Meeting to be held
at 6 p.m. on that day. Her friend at Guildford had suggested to her
that she ought to go to St Paul's Cathedral to hear the Lenten
music, Allegri"s Miserere, which was being performed there, and it
occurred to my mother that this would be an appropriate way to
spend the time of the meeting. In her diary for March 29, 1914, she
records her visit thus :
" On March 27th from 4.15 to 5 I was in St
Paul's (for the first time !) to hear AUegri's Miserere. There came
a gleam of sunhght on the St Mark, and I wondered if he held a
golden pen. but it was too far off to see." By " the St Mark " my
mother referred to the mosaic of that saint in the series designed by
Sir Wilham Richmond, and was also clearly referring back to her
scripts of October 1905 and February 6, 1914, already mentioned.
Miserere is the name given to the fifty-first Psalm, the Vulgate ver-
sion of which begins Miserere mei, Deus, secundum magmm miseri-
cordiam tuam. Verses 16 and 17 in the Prayer Book version are as
follows :
" For thou desirest no sacrifice, else would I give it thee :
but thou dehghtest not in burnt offerings. The sacrifice of God is a
troubled spirit : a broken and contrite heart, 0 God, shalt thou not
despise." This is one of the scriptural passages quoted or referred
to in the essay on The Altar of Mercy :
" In comparison with this
Deity of the Soul and with the uncostly sacrifice of a broken heart,
the whole art and ritual of polytheistic superstition are waved
awav."'
Lord Balfour's paper, which it is to be observed, neither deals
with nor makes mention of The Altar of Mercy, but only of my
father's other two essays on Statins, was published in July 1914 in
30 Mrs W. H. Salter [PAET
Part 69 of Proceedings. This Part and Part 70 contain several other
papers discussing it.
The paper was read at the time of its pubhcation by Mrs Stuart
Wilson, who had been for many years an Associate of the Society.
When in the Journal for February 1915, an appeal was made for
Members to offer themselves for experiments in thought-transference
Mrs Wilson responded, and she and I undertook a series of experi-
ments which I reported on in a paper published in Vol. XXIX of
Proceedings, p. 306.
Mrs Wilson, who is an American by birth, was the wife of Briga-
dier-General Charles Stuart Wilson, C.B., of the Royal Engineers.
My first acquaintance with her was through her response to the
appeal of February 1915. She never knew either my father or my
mother, and she had not, at the date of the experience I am about to
relate, read either The Altar of Mercy or any other of my father's
writings.
Concerning Mrs Wilson's automatism, readers of the paper referred
to above will realise that she and I obtained several cross-corres-
pondences of considerable interest : I may mention in particular the
connections between her impressions of May 16 and June 4, 1915,
and my script of June 4, 1915, on the subject of Der Tod als Freuml
(Death the Friend) and Sintram {Proc, Vol. XXIX, p. 324). Al-
though little has been published since concerning Mrs Wilson, she
has continued to record her impressions from time to time and has
become an important member of " the S.P.R. group of automatists ".
To remind my readers of the nature of Mrs Wilson's automatism,
I will quote a passage from my report of the 1915 experiments :
Mrs Wilson's procedure is as follows : ha^^ng provided herself
with pencil and paper, she lies down in the dark and lapses almost at
once into a light stage of hypnosis. In this condition a series of very
vivid mental pictures present themselves to her, amounting some-
times to visual lialhicinations. Not infrequently she hears a voice,
it may be her own voice or the voice of some other unknown person.
On some occasions the voice also has been completely externalised as
an auditory hallucination.
" Mrs Wilson makes brief notes of her impressions at the conclusion
of the experiment ;
sometimes, after she thinks the experiment is
over, she has some further impressions, which are duly noted. Once
or twice it has happened that the impressions have taken the form of
a vivid dream during ordinary sleep of which Mrs Wilson has noted
as much as she could remember on waking. The detailed records
which she sent to me were based on her own contemporary notes,
and were usually written out on the day following the experiments.
153] A Sermon in St Paul's 31
These records have all been preserved, together with the postmarks
showuig the dates upon which they were despatched."
I should like to emphasise the point that Mrs AA^ilson's own
personal associations were quite apart from mine or my mother's.
The objection has sometimes been made that the S.P.R. automatists
knew each other too well, and were too nmch, as it were, " in the
same set." This objection does not apply to Mrs Wilson. Up to
the time when she and I began to experiment, her closest links, as I
have said, were with America and with the British Army, and
for some years before the outbreak of war in 1914 she had been
Hving abroad. Mrs Wilson and I could not be said to know each
other well until after the incidents and scripts discussed in this
paper.
On February 15, 1916, Mrs Wilson wrote to me as follows :
" I
have been meaning to write about the following incident ever since
it occurred, but my husband has been home on leave, and I have had
no time. On Sunday morning February 6th I woke up feeling that
I must go to the morning service at St Paul's Cathedral. I have
never been to a service there before, or wanted to go. As I lay
meditating the matter, I got a visual impression of what I took for
bus 13, which I often take to Regent's Park. I wondered why, as it
ran in quite a wrong direction for St Pauls. It was only when really
started for church, that I discovered that the bus I wanted was 15,
and only when I saw it commg, that I realised that with my astig-
matism 13 and 15 looked identical at a short distance. Of course I
expected to find a long-lost friend, or a German spy, or some one
really interesting, sitting near me, either in the bus or in church,
but there was not a soul I knew, or any one of the shghtest interest.
I was in a very absent-mmded mood, and the service seemed to go
very fast. I heard the first words of the sermon and no more, until
I heard the preacher say, " Be careful that like Statins you do not
linger too long upon the brink."" That attracted my attention,
because, except in the S.P.R. Proceedings last spring, I had never
consciously heard of Statius. Certainly never apart from the S.P.R.
literature. Oh. I said to myself, I suppose that is what I came for.
Afterw^ards it seemed a little puzzling to decide whether the words
had really been said by the clergyman or I had evolved them from
my own mind, and that is a question, my dear Mrs Salter, that only
the man who preached can settle, and I for one should not like to ask
him. He cannot, I think, have mentioned the name [i.e. Statius]
before, as it would probably have brought me to attention at
once.
, Last night [February 14, 1916] I was getting a lot of impressions,
32 J/rs W. H. Salter [part
but I can only remember a very wide and turbulent river, and a man
sitting near it who looked lil^e St John the Divine in his youth.
There was also some one of the same sort on the other side, but old
and with a grey beard, I think."
My contemporary record of my reply acknowledging this letter is
as follows : "I told Mrs Wilson that her experience was appropri-
ately timed, Feb. 5 being my father's bii'thday." The occasion was
more appropriate than I then realised, as I had not seen my mother's
" birthday scripts " of February 4, 5, 6, 1913, 1914, 1915.
On February 18, 1916, Mrs Wilson wrote to me as follows :
" I have looked up the name of the preacher at St Paul's on
Sunday, February the 6th, at the morning service, and find it was
Dr Nairne. Even if he did preach of Statins [i.e. if the words Mrs
Wilson thought she heard were actually spoken and not a subjective
impression], it looks like some sort of telepathy, that I should have
felt impelled to go and hear him."
The Dr Nairne in question was the Rev. Dr Alexander Nairne, a
Cambridge Classical Scholar, and later Regius Professor of Divinity
at Cambridge : he was personally known to ray father and mother.
On February 23, 1916, I wrote to him as follows :
" A friend of mine, a lady with whom I have lately been doing
some experiments in thought-transference, attended morning service
in St Paul's on February 6 and heard you preach there. She thinks
that in your sermon you made allusion to Statins, whom she associ-
ates in her mind with an essay on Dante by my father, the late
Professor Verrall. But her recollection on this point is not perfectly
clear, and I should like to ascertain definitely whether she is right in
attributing the allusion to you. Could you therefore tell me wdiether
in your sermon on February 6 you referred to Statins and spoke of
him as '
fingering on the brink '
?
"
Dr Nairne replied on February 24, 1916 :
' In the sermon (Feb. G) of which you wrote, I aUuded to Statins
and any one who had read Dr Verrall's essay would have known that
I liad it in uund. But I am as sure as I can be without a written
record of the sermon that 1 did not speak of Statins '
lingering on the
brink ".
That would—as far as I can remember, and I have fittle
doubt upon this—have had no point in the sermon. I just spoke of
Dante thinking him Christian but it was the '
altar of pity '
not
Statins himself I was concerned with. . . .
" I am yours very truly,
"Alex. Nairne.
"After writing this I feel uneasy about the strength of the denial.
153] A Sermon in St Paul's 33
If the phrase '
lingering too long upon the brink ' is in the essay I
feel that it is possible that I may have used it unconsciously. That
happens so often. I will ask a friend who was present if he remem-
bers."
On February 28, 1916, Dr Nairne wrote me the followmg post-
card :
" '
Lingering too long upon the brink.' The friend I spoke of is
almost certain I did not use those words."
Dr Nairne speaks of " Dr Verrall's essay ", but as I have already
pointed out, there are three essays on Statius. Dr Nairne was " con-
cerned " in his sermon with one essay, The Altar of Mercy : Mrs Wil-
son knew nothing of this essay, but erroneously thought that she
heard a mention of the main subject of the other two essays, of
which she had indirect knowledge through Lord Balfour's paper,
though she had never seen them herself.
To sum up : at the time of Mrs Wilson's fir-st attendance at a ser-
vice at St Paul's there already existed, quite unknown to her, the
following connections :
(1) Between the date of her attendance, February 6, and the essay
The Altar of Mercy, through the passages already noted in my
mother's scripts of February 4-6 in the years following my father's
death.
(2) Between that date and St Paul's Cathedral, owing to references
in the same scripts which my mother attributed to the mosaic seen by
her in St Paul's on March 27, 1914, the date of her first visit there.
(3) Between St Paul's Cathedral and my father's other essays on
Statius, owing to my mother's visit there while Lord Balfour's paper
was being read to the Society.
Mrs Wilson's experience of February 6, 1916, seems to me to draw
together into one these pre-existing connections : for the first time,
the date, the place and this particular essay, The Altar of Mercy,
occur together. Sermons in St Paul's on Statius are, I fancy, rare,
and sermons inspired by my father's essay on Statius's Altar of
Mercy perhaps rarer still : ought I to apologise for not being pre-
pared with statistics of their frequency ?
The coincidence is the more noteworthy when we bear in mind that
Mrs Wilson's visit to St Paul's was the first time she had ever
attended a service there and my mother's visit the only time she was
ever there at all.
I leave it to members of this Society to judge whether the im-
pulse which induced Mrs Wilson to go to St Paul's on February 6,
1916, and so to hear a sermon on The Altar of Mercy was wholly
fortuitous.
34 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
Chronological Table
February 5, 1851. A. W. V. born.
February 5, 6, 1912. Serious illness of A. W. V.
June 18, 1912. A. W. V. died.
February 4, 1913. M. V. script :
" San Clemente with the mosaics."
February 6, 1914. M. V. script :
" St Mark's golden-tipped pen
"
(cf. mosaics in St Paul's Cathedral).
March 24, 1914. M. de G. V. heard Lord Balfour's paper concerning
To Follow the Fisherman and Dante on the Baptis?n of Statins
privately read at Woking.
March 27, 1914. M. de G. V. went to St Paul's Cathedral for the first
and only time, heard Allegri's Miserere, and observed the figure
of St Mark in the mosaics. At the same time Lord Balfour read
his paper at an S.P.R. meeting.
February 4, 1915. M. V. script :
" building without hands " (cf.
A. W. V.'s essay The Altar of Mercy).
February 6, 1916. Mrs Wilson went to St Paul's Cathedral, the first
time she had ever attended a service there, and heard Dr Nairne
preach on Statius's Altar of Mercy.
II :
THE LIGHTHOUSE
I now propose to leave the topic of Statius altogether, and to quote
from my mother's scripts and my own some instances of the manner
in which the scripts approach a topic, using any associations of ideas
which happen to lie ready in the mind of the automatist, who often
does not realise the goal aimed at. The element of cross-corres-
pondence is not, I think, lacking, but my purpose is not to stress this
but to give illustrations of a process frequently employed in the
scripts.
This being my intention, 1 shall follow the example set by some
writers of detective stories and state at the outset the answer to the
problem, and then go back to the begmning and show the steps in its
solution. The answer in this case is that the scripts, taken as a body,
show clear evidence of intention not only to refer to the topic
" lighthouse ", but to lay strong emphasis on it. But the topic was
wrapped up in such a way that during the period to which I am
referring, that is to say until June 1915, neither I nor my mother
realised this intention.
153] A Sermon in St PauVs 35
In a script of September 20, 1908, I wrote some automatic verse
(whicli I do not commend for its literary merit !) as follows :
By the ocean shore where the billows roar
When the West AVind wields his flail.
And seagirt rock scarce bides the shock,
Woe for the vessels frail.
A broken spar by the harbour bar
Lies tossing in the foam
The wave-tost bell rings out the knell
Of those who come not home.
I wlU next quote from two scripts written on consecutive days in
September 1911. On September 11, I wrote :
The midnight sun and northern lights . . . the hght leaped Hke a
living thing . . . and great whales go sailing by round the world for
ever and aye.
and on September 12 :
Mutantur omnia irrevocabile tempus (all things change time which
cannot be recalled) . . . the evening light and drowsy tinklings lull
the distant folds a stormy haven Three fishers went sailing.
On June 18, 1915, I was staying with my mother at Cambridge.
In the evening we both wrote scripts, she writing before me. I did
not, however, see her script till a month later. I will quote my
script first
:
Aequora ponti (the waters of the sea) —the great deep—the deep
calls—a land of many harbours—three fishers went sailing—one
clear call.
That completes the tale of my own scripts that I propose to quote
in connection with this approach to the lighthouse topic. I wish to
emphasise that they form a natural group, bemg united by internal
links which I shall shortly explain. But first I will quote my mother's
script of June 18, 1915, written, I repeat, before my script of the
same date :
Bells ringing in the darkness of the night ringing till the grey dawn
rises Mary, go and call the cattle home—and the bells of Enderby
The Bell Buoy Rock No I can't get it clearer—leave it tonight.
It will be noted that the word " hghthouse " does not occur in any
of the scripts quoted, nor, I think, would the idea " Hghthouse
"
readily suggest itself to a reader, but if the Hterary allusions implicit
in the scripts are traced and combined, the hghthouse topic emerges
clearly enough.
36 Mrs W. H. Salter [PABT
The most obvious link between my scripts is Kingsley's poem The
Three Fishers. The opening words of this poem are quoted in my
scripts of September 12, 1911, and June 18, 1915, and my script of
September 20, 1908, contains phrases reminiscent of the same poem.
The poem consists of three stanzas, of which the first opens thus :
Three fishers went saihng out into the West,
Out into the West as the sun went down.
The second stanza opens :
Three women sat up in the lighthouse tower
The third:
Three corpses lay out on the shining sands
and each stanza ends with mention of the " harbour bar and its
moaning ".
References to this poem may, in view of the second stanza, be
lighthouse references, but they are not necessarily so ; and in fact
the one topic which appears on the surface in all of my scripts except
the second, and still more emphatically in my mother's scripts, is that
of bells. My first script has " wave-tost bell " ;
my third leaves for
a moment the sea association and gives sheep bells at evening,
" drowsy tinilings lull the distant folds," and then returning to the
sea " the stormy haven—three fishers went sailing ". The fourth
script introduces by the words " one clear call " a reference to
Tennyson's Crossing the Bar, the third stanza of which begins
" Twihght and evening bell and my mother's script is all about
bells, bells ringing in the darkness of night, the bells of Enderby, the
Bell Buoy Rock.
Combined with these in my mother's script is a quotation from
another well-known poem of Kingsley's The Smids of Dee. Like his
Three Fishers, it is a tale of drowning ofi' the coast, but in this case it
is a girl who is drowned. It thus forms a convenient transition be-
tween The Three Fishers and The Bells of Enderby, mentioned in
Jean Ingelow's poem High. Tide on the Coast of Lincolnshire, in which
also a girl is drowned in the rising tide. But whereas The Three
Fishers has a lighthouse but nothing about bells, Jean Ingelow's
poem gives bells without the lighthouse, although there is in it a
reference to a church-tower which acts as a " beacon-light to sailors ".
The lighthouse association is therefore still not unnfistakably
established.
^ The first stanza has " And may there be no moaning at the bar ", thereby
linking up with The Three Fishers.
153] A Sermon in St Pa id's 37
There remain to be considered the second script of niy series, that
of September 11, 1911, and two phrases, one in my script of Septem-
ber, 12, 1911, " irrevocabile tempus," and one in my mother's
script of June 18, 1915. " The Bell Buoy Rock." These two phrases
have a close association of a very curious kind, and that association
is " hghthouse "'.
" The Bell Buoy Rock " was at the time identified by my mother
with the Bell Rock or Inchcape Rock off the east coast of Scotland.
Between 1807 and 1811 a hghthouse was built there by Robert
Stevenson : before that there had been a bell attached to a frame-
work which was moved by the waves (hence the name of the rock),
and when the hghthouse was built, the machinery in it was arranged
to ring two bells in foggy weather. Note the appropriate phrases
" sea-girt rock and " wave-tost bell " in my first script, which does
not anywhere imply that the more common arrangement of a bell
buoy is being described.
In the summer of 1814 the Commissioners of Northern Lights, the
body responsible for all the lighthouses in Scotland, made an official
tour of inspection of hghthouses in the northern part of Scotland,
including the Orkneys and Shetlands. One of the unofficial mem-
bers of the party was Sir Walter Scott, who kept a diary of the tour
(printed in full in Lockhart's Life of Scott, Vol. Ill, pp. 136-277).
Scott jestingly heads the diary "Voyage in the Lighthouse Yacht to
Nova Zembla and the Lord knows where ". The party left Leith on
June 29 and on the evening of the first day Scott " watched the
progress of the ship round Fifeness, and the revolving motion of the
now distant Bell Rock light until the Avind grew rough and the
landsmen sick ". Early next day the party were put ashore and
went over the lighthouse, which is described at some length. My
mother, the day after she wote her script of June 18, 1915, noted
that she had read Lockhart's Life of Scott and knew that Scott had
visited the Bell Rock Lighthouse.
On September 8, 1814, the tour ended at Greenock, where Scott
went ashore, and he closed his diary with words expressing the
pleasure he had had. and the necessity of returning to work : "we
had constant exertion, a succession of wild and uncommon scenery,
good humour on board, and objects of animation and interest when
we went ashore
—
Sed fugit interea, fugit irrevocabile tempus.''
There you have the connection between " Bell Buoy Rock " in my
mother's script and " irrevocabile tempus " in my script of Septem-
ber 11, 1911. The one refers to an incident at the very beginning of
38 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
Scott's tour, the other to the last w ords of the diary describing the
tour, the whole object of which was to inspect lighthouses. Scott's
Latin tag, wliich is, of course, a quotation, is the 284th line of Vergil's
Third Georgic : or rather it is a misquotation, for the texts of Vergil
have " irreparabile tempus while Scott has " irrevocabile " } That
ni}' script perpetuates Scott's error shows that it was referring to his
quotation and not gi^dng a direct quotation of a line of Vergil with
which in my normal state I am familiar. It also shows that the
scripts, which are sometimes charged with nebulous vagueness, can on
occasions be as precise, even in small details, as any one could desire.
Several phrases in my scripts are appropriate to the diary, though
not indubitable references to it. Such for example are " a stormy
haven in my script of September 12, 1911, and " a land of many
harbours in my script of June 18, 1915 ;
possibly also the " great
whales" of my script September 11, 1911, as Scott makes several
references to the whaling industry. But of special interest are the
words in this script " The Midnight sun and northern lights ". Scott
did not go far enough north to see the midnight sun : in a poem
written during the tour he speaks of islands
" Where late the sun scarce vanished from the sight
And his bright pathway graced the short-lived night ".
But if he had gone to Nova Zembla in fact, not only in jest, he
would of course have reached the latitude of the midnight sun.
More certain is the phrase " Northern Lights which has a double
meaning and is, I think, used in the scripts precisely for its am-
biguity. It may mean the Aurora Borealis, a subject naturally
mentioned in association with the midnight sun. But " Com-
missioners of Northern Lights " is the name Scott gives the Board
on whose yacht he made his tour. If my interpretation is right, an
allusion to lighthouses is thus surreptitiously introduced in a phrase
apparently referring to celestial phenomena.
I am certain that at the date of these two scripts of September
1911, 1 had never read Scott"s diary of 1814, and that I did not know
that he had there quoted, or misquoted, the Vergilian line. My
mother, who saw both scripts on September 12, 1911, very possibly
remembered Scott's misquotation, as at some date that I do not
know she read the diary. But her knowledge of my scripts of
^ The misquotation (" fugit irrevocabile tempus '") reappears in The Heart of
Midloihum (first published 1818) in Chapter XII, where the words are put into
the mouth of Butler, then in prison. But whereas the context of the scripts is
entirely appropriate to the diary, it is quite inappropriate to the situation in
the novel in which the misquotation occurs : this sufficiently appears from the
scripts I have quoted.
153] A Serni07i in St PauVs 39
September 11 and 12, 1911, would not account for the fact that on
June 18, 1915, she wrote a script Unked with them in the manner
already explained, whilst on the same evening, I, writing quite
independently, produced a script also Hnked in the clearest possible
way with the same scripts. However, as I said earlier, my object
is not to stress elements of cross-correspondence, but to illustrate a
method which would lose little interest if it had no relation to cross-
correspondences.
In the other instance which I shall now relate. Members of the
Society may be reheved to learn that I shall steer clear of the Classics
altogether and not bring in even a Vergihan tag. Two nursery
rhymes and a short story and some verses by one of the best-known
writers of our time are practically the whole hterature involved.
With one exception all the scripts were written in the first few
months of 1914. " Lighthouse " is again the hidden goal.
The one script not written in this period is my script of December
15, 1908, which ends :
" A carAdng knife—three bhnd mice—a single
thread." For five years the mice topic was dormant in my scripts,
not emerging till January 1914. In a script of January 21, 1914,
occur the words, " A golden boat a poem something about the moon
and a golden boat," with a drawing of a crescent moon.
On January 28, 1914, my script had the words :
The golden boat—something about the masts being of silver
—
it is an English poem—we have tried to quote it twice before—to
sail upon the sea—last night the moon had a silver rim three blind
mice—yes, write it down—I wish you could find that poem.
On February 4, 1914, come the words :
The masts were all of silver—the crew were mice.
These scripts made it perfectly clear (though I did not myself
appreciate this at the time) that the poem referred to the nursery
rhyme called The Fairy Ship, of which several slightly variant
versions exist. I shall give that which was famiUar to me as a child :
A ship, a ship a-saiUng
A-saihng on the sea ;
And it was deeply laden
With pretty things for me.
There were raisins in the cabin
And almonds in the hold ;
The sails were made of satin
And the mast it was of gold.
40 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
The four and twenty sailors
That stood between the decks
Were four and twenty white mice
With rings about their necks ; ,- -
The Captain was a duck, a duck :
•
. . . , :
With a jacket on his back, •. i
And when the fairy ship set sail . • :
•
The Captain he said. Quack !
The trail had been confused by reminiscences of another poem well-
known to me since childhood, a poem called The Fairy Boat, by T.
Hood. It begins :
A lake and a fairy boat
To sail in the moonlight clear,
and accounts for allusions in the scripts to the moon, which plays no
part in the nursery rhyme. The " three blind mice " are, I suppose,
introduced to bring in the topic of mice in a nursery rhyme setting,
and to indicate by a reference back to my script of December 15,
1908, that this was a previous, but unsuccessful attempt to introduce
the topic of The Fairy Ship.
Although Lord Balfour and Mr Piddington, who had been studying
my scripts, identified the " poem " as TJie Fairy Ship, they were
at a loss to understand why so much trouble was being taken to drag
it in. It happened that about a week after my script of February 4,
1914, my mother, who did not know of the references in my scripts
to The Fairy Ship, was staying at Fishers Hill (Lord Balfour's house).
Dame Edith Lyttelton was also there and was to do some experi-
ments in automatic writing with my mother. At Lord Balfour's
suggestion Dame Edith on February 12, 1914, put the following
question out loud to my mother while she was waiting for automatic
script to come, in the hope that the answer might throw some light
on why the nursery rhyme had been dragged in : ,
,
" Have you anything to say about these lines
And when the ship began to move
The Captain cried Quack Quack ?
"
After this question had been put my mother's script began :
The Old Moulmein Pagoda—Eastern scents and eastern sounds
—
Bells upon the breeze.
The relevance of this answer is not immediately obvious, nor was it
discovered until many years later Mr Piddington happened to read
Kiphng's short story The Disturber of the Traffic. But its relevance
153] A Sermon in St Paul's 41
is apparent when we consider the following points : the reference
in my mother's script was to a poem by Kiphng called Mandalay,
which speaks of " the old Moulmein Pagoda, looking eastward to the
sea " and emphasises the topic of bells,^ which in the scripts I have
quoted above was closely interwoven with the lighthouse topic. This
was evidently an approach (probably the best the automatist could
do) to the real answer to the question, The Disturber of Traffic.
Kipling's story is a story of the eastern seas told in a lighthouse on
the Enghsh coast by the lighthouse keeper about a man who tended
a lighthouse in the Dutch East Indies. He goes mad and has to be
taken away in a survey ship's boat :
" When Dowse [the madman]
was in the boat, he found, so he says, he couldn't speak to the sailors
'cept to call them '
white mice with chains about their neck '
and
Lord knows he hadn't seen or thought of white mice since he was a
little bit of a boy with them in his handkerchief. . . . Then he heard
the Captain talking to him very kind . . . but all he could do was to
keep his eyes on the rigging and sing
—
I saw a ship a-saiUng
, ,
.
;
;
A-sailing on the sea
And oh, it was all lading
With pretty things for me
Then he remembered that was foohsliness, and he started off the
saying about the Ombay Passage but all he said was—The Captain
was a duck—meaning no offence to you. Sir—but there was some-
thing on his back that I've forgotten.
: . And when the ship began to move
,
, / The Captain says. Quack, quack !
"
It might be interesting to enquire how many people with a good
knowledge of modern English literature would be able to answer the
question, " Where is a story about a lighthouse combined with a
quotation from the Nursery Rhyme about a Fairy Ship whose
crew were mice ?
" I put this question to my audience at the
Society's meeting at which this paper was read, but I got no answer.
In conclusion I may say something about the first explicit reference
to a lighthouse in my script, which was not made until April 27, 1918.
It was made in this form :
" Dominus illuminatio mea
—
(fxxpos
"
^ " For the wind is in the palm-trees, and the temple bells they say. ..."
" An' the sunshine and the palm-trees an' the tinkly temple bells ; . . ,
"
" For the temple bells are callin, an' it's there that I would be
—
" By the old Movdinein Pagoda, looking lazy at the sea,"
42 Mrs W. H. Salter [part 153]
(fyixpo? means the famous lighthouse at Alexandria. " Dominus
illuminatio mea " is a reference back to a script of mine written
exactly ten years earlier, on April 27, 1908. This script has " Dom-
inus illuminatio mea A golden harp ".
" A golden harp " is mentioned once again, and once only, in all
my scripts, and that is in my script of March 24, 1914. Mr Pidding-
ton was present while this script was being written, and in the course
of it this question was asked him :
" Is it clear about the silver sails, etc ?
"
I now quote the record of what followed this question :
J. G. P. I can't say it is clear. I know the poem that is meant
[i.e. The Fairy Ship].
we will try to say more later
—
J. G. P. Right. I want to give a message. Can I give it now?
Wait a minute
—
a golden harp—we wanted to say that—Now the message
Observe how permission to give the message is not granted until
the words " a golden harp " have been added, the object of the
addition being to connect The Fairy Ship with "Dominus illuminatio
mea A golden harp " in my script of April 27, 1908.
When " Dominus illuminatio mea " is repeated on April 27, 1918,
it is immediately followed by a reference to the Pharos at Alexandria.
This combination of " Dominus illuminatio mea " with the Pharos
may be taken as the fulfilment of the intention expressed in my
script of March 24, 1914 : "we will try to say more later."
These facts, besides furnishing another example of how topics
emerge in scripts, go to show that long before it was realised that
references to The Fairy Ship mean the lighthouses mentioned in
Kipling's story, the intelligence responsible for my scripts was aware
of a close connection between The Fairy Ship and the lighthouse
topic.
\
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 154
REPORT ON A SERIES OF EXPERIMENTS WITH
MRS EILEEN GARRETT
By K. M. Goldney and S. G. Soal
PART I
AN EXAMINATION INTO PHYSIOLOGICAL CHANGES
ALLEGED TO TAKE PLACE DURING THE TRANCE
STATE
By K. M. Goldney
I. Introduction
Before Mr Soal and I give our report of the experiments carried
out by us with Mrs Garrett in London during 1937, I will shortly
mention a few facts concerning her mediumship.
Mrs Eileen Garrett is one of the best known of our EngHsh
mental mediums, and has come to occupy a unique position inasmuch
as she has placed herself of late years in the hands of scientific
investigators who have been at hberty to carry out experiments in
whatever way they wished, without restriction.
Mrs Garrett tells me that she first became aware of psychic
powers as a child, and that she started upon her career as a profes-
sional medium at the age of 30. She has worked as a medium on
the staff of the London Spiritualist Alhance and of the British
College of Psychic Science. She has worked for Mr Harry Price at
the National Laboratory of Psychical Research, for Dr WilHam
Brown (a member of the S.P.R. Council), for the International
Institute for Psychical Research, and for this Society.
c 43
44 K. M. Ooldney [part
I might, perhaps, particularly mention the interest aroused some
years ago as a result of Mrs Garrett's trance utterance concerning
the loss of the airship RlOl. Its destruction was predicted, she tells
me, in trance communications purporting to come from the well-
known airman Hinchhfife, who lost his life in an attempted east-to-
west crossing of the Atlantic. These communications have been
described in a book entitled The Return of Hinchliffe, pubhshed by
the Psychic Press. Forty-eight hours after the news was first
published of the loss of the RlOl in 1930, its commander, Lieut.
Irwin, purported to communicate through Mrs Garrett at a sitting
being held by Mr Harry Price. This has been described by Mr
Price in his book Leaves from a Psychist's Case-book (London, 1933).
The description given of the disaster seemed to be beyond the know-
ledge of the man in the street. Mr Price therefore got into touch
with the airship base at Gardington, Bedfordshire ; and I can myself
testify that an official from Gardington, who subsequently visited
Mr Price at the National Laboratory of Psychical Research, was
definitely of opinion that the trance utterance contained informa-
tion not only beyond the knowledge of the man in the street, but
known only to a small group at Gardington, of which the purporting
communicator was one. So far as this individual testimony is con-
cerned, therefore, a prima facie case for paranormal knowledge
appears to have been made out, which might repay further investiga-
tion.
But Mrs Garrett's activities have not been confined to this side
of the Atlantic. She is now on her fourth visit to the United States,
and during these visits she has worked for the American Society for
Psychical Research ; the Boston Society for Psychic Research ;
with Dr Rhine and Mr J. G. Pratt at Duke University ; with Mr
Hereward Garrington ; and with various American doctors.
When Mrs Garrett returned to England in 1937, Mr Soal and I
determined to ask her to repeat the various experiments carried
out in America about which so much has been heard over here
during the last couple of years.
It should be noted that these experiments fall into two distinct
categories : those about which a Report has been pubhshed, and
those of which we have heard only verbally and by rumour.
In the former category come the experiments in Extra-Sensory-
Perception carried out at Duke University and reported upon by
Dr Rhine, and two series of Proxy Sittings reported upon by Mr
J. G. Pratt.
In the latter category—experiments about which no Report has
been published but about which much has been heard verbally—
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 45
come the experiments undertaken in doctors' laboratories in
America, relating to physiological changes alleged to take place
during trance.
Mr Soal repeated the experiments in E.S.P., and I carried out a
short series of Proxy Sittings and a triple repetition of the doctors'
physiological tests.
Before we report on these in detail, we wish to place on record
our very great appreciation—an appreciation which must be shared
by all students of the subject—of the attitude maintained by Mrs
Garrett. She has throughout given us her services entirely volun-
tarily, and has grudged neither time nor work. Moreover, she
faces with courage the possibiUty that these searching tests' may
prove disappointing to the hopes and possibilities of medium-
ship, but never fails to appreciate that it is by such exhaustive
tests alone that we can hope to progress in our knowledge of the
subject.
We had hoped to give a detailed Report on all the work carried
out, but time does not permit of this and I am unable on this occa-
sion to report on the Proxy Sittings experiment. I will only men-
tion here that 8 Proxy Sittings were held, with specially selected
sitters ;
that all 8 scripts, bearing no name or distinguishing mark,
were sent to each of the sitters ; and that only one sitter succeeded
in selecting what was, in fact, his own script. In doing so he
commented that he " would have classified the result as '
Poor
'
had it been a normal (sitter-present) sitting " and that " at best
there were only streaks of relatively good hits ". The outcome
cannot, therefore, be considered successful ; but it had interest-
ing repercussions which I shall hope to report upon on another
occasion.
The experiments in E.S.P. and the result of the enquiry into
alleged paranormal physiological conditions during trance, were
ENTIRELY NEGATIVE ; and I suggest that the onus now lies on the
American investigators who have claimed positive paranormal
results to show why such results are obtained in one hemisphere
and not in another.
With this as a foreword, I will now proceed to give my Report on
the doctors' examination into physiological conditions obtaining
during the trance state. These experiments were carried out unde?
the auspices of the International Institute for Psychical Research,
and I am indebted to the Council of that Society for permission to
report here on the result ; but I was myself entirely responsible for
arranging the experiments, and was present myself throughout to
take down shorthand notes.
46 K. M. Ooldney [PAET
2. Report on the Experiments
Date : June and September 1937.
Medium : Mrs Eileen Garrett.
Doctors participating in the experiments :
(1) Geoffrey Bourne, Esq., M.D., F.R.C.P. ; Asst. Physician,
Officer in charge of Cardiographic Dept., St. Bartholomew's
Hospital, London ;
Physician, King George Hospital,
Ilford ; Hon. Considting Physician, Letchworth Hospital
;
Examiner, Pharm. and Therapeutics, University of Cam-
bridge, and in Med. Soc. Apoth. ; Fellow of the Royal
Society of Medicine, etc., etc.
Address : 47 Queen Anne Street, London, W. L
(2) CuTHBERT Dukes, Esq., O.B.E., M.Sc, M.D., D.P.H.
;
Pathologist, St. Peter's Hospital, London ;
Director,
Research Laboratory, St. Mark's Hospital, London
;
Lecturer, Bac, King's College for Women ; Fellow of the
Royal Society of Medicine, etc., etc.
Address : 1 Queen Anne Street, London, W. L
(3) William Nunan, Esq., M.D. (Dublin), M.B., B.Ch. ;
B.A.O.,
L.M. (Rotunda) ; Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine ;
Late Pohce Surgeon, Bombay ; Prof. Med. Jurisprudence
and Toxicology, Grant Medical College, Bombay ;
Psycho-
therapist on the staff of the Institute of Medical Psychology,
London.
Address : 3 Upper Wimpole Street, London, W. L
(4) V. J. WooLLEY, Esq., M.D. (Camb.) ; Lecturer Pharmacol.,
St. Thomas's Hospital, London ; Mem. Physiol. Soc. ;
Former Hon. Research Officer, Society for Psychical
Research, London.
Address : St. Thomas's Hospital, London, S.E.
(5) Dr Helena Wright, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., M.B., B.S.
Address : 9 Weymouth Street, London, W. 1.
The medium, Mrs Eileen Garrett, gave her services entirely
voluntarily.
The American figures quoted in this Report and the originals of
documents, correspondence, notes, etc., etc., are filed with the
International Institute for Psychical Research, Walton House,
Walton Street, London, S.W. 1, and can be studied there with the
permission of the Director.
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 47
Note :
Mrs Garrett's Trance " Controls
"
During trance, Mrs Garrett is controlled by two personalities
calling themselves
(1) UVANI,
(2) Abdul Latif.
So far as I am aware, this is the first time that a Report has been
issued concerning the experiments that have been made during the
last two or three years with Mrs Eileen Garrett, with regard to
physiological conditions during the trance state.
The subject, however, has not lacked pubhcity for lack of authori-
tative data. It would be difficult to exaggerate the wild and—as it
has proved—unwarranted statements that have appeared in the
" Psychic Press " in this country. " In America ", we are given to
understand, it has been " scientifically proved " in doctors' labora-
tories that mediumistic Controls are entirely separate entities from
the medium through whom they operate. I will quote a few extracts
from Journals devoted to this subject.
The Editorial Notes of the July 1937 issue of Psychic Science (the
quarterly transactions of the British College of Psychic Science)
speak of " the researches, psychological and clinical, made with
those Controls in the U.S.A. laboratories, when to aU tests their
reactions were very different from those of the normal Eileen
Garrett. These secondary personahties are able apparently to pro-
duce such a powerful dramatic effort as can completely change the
metabohsm of the bodily functions."
At the Twelfth Annual Dinner of the British Society of Psychic
Science, held at the Cafe Royal on May 5th, 1937, the Chairman
again told hsteners that " it was found that the metabolism of the
body changed completely under particular '
Controls '
; that was
something that had never been demonstrated practically in the
history of the world before. Those of us who are psychic students
know it, but we have not been able to put it down in black and
white as these doctors could."
The July 30th, 1936, issue of Light speaks of the experiments
done in America as foUows :
" Not once did these exhaustive
experiments prove anything but that each of these three personahties
yielded entirely divergent reactions to every '
test ' apphed." " For
six months this year this intrepid medium has allowed herself for an
average of six hours a day to be put . . . through a long series of
medical tests." " Proofs of the separate identity of these three
48 K. M. Goldney [part
personalities came forth so clearly and undeniably one after the
other, that at one point Dr Traeger of New York, who was con-
ducting the experiments, exclaimed, at the realisation of the implica-
tions involved, '
I hardly dare to go further '."
" Cardiographs obtained in the tliree states showed clearly the
somewhat delicate heart action of Eileen Garrett, the vigorous beat
of Uvani, and the unmistakably feeble action of the aged Abdul."
" The blood counts varied correspondingly : the very constituents
of the blood were not the same : where Mrs Garrett showed only
about 70 components of haemoglobin, Uvani registered approxi-
mately 85, and Abdul as high as 110 ; their blood chemistry was
completely different."
" Similarly with bleeding-time, coagulation times, respiration :
none of them were left untried, and not one of them failed to
register difference of personality."
In May 1937 Mrs Garrett was invited by the London Spiritualist
Alliance to address the members of that Society. The following is
an extract from Light of May 20th, 1937, on what she is reported
to have said as to the American experiments :
" We worked for
nine months and found enormous and alarming changes. The
cardiographs were entirely different, the activity of the heart under
the Controls changed : one Control has no relationship to the other,
and my cardiograph would have no more relation to their record-
ings than mine would, perhaps, to Dr Dingwall's." " The blood
chemistry of the alleged Control, Abdul Latif, contained the blood
of a man in the last stages of diabetes ; the blood corpuscle of the
Uvani personahty was very much lower than my own. These were
quite alarming."
Now I am not necessarily suggesting that Mrs Garrett gave her
listeners incorrect information ; but I do suggest that it is very easy
for a layman dealing with a technical subject imperfectly under-
stood—or understood not at all—to misinterpret facts, and draw
conclusions unwarranted by those facts ; and I do suggest that
Societies incur a grave responsibihty when they invite other than
technical experts to address their members on so technical a matter
without laying very great stress on the warning that judgment should
wait upon the publication of a first-hand and authoritative Report ; and
that Journals incur a similar responsibility when they give publicity
to stupendous claims arising out of hearsay evidence.
An article I have just been reading in The Listener comments upon
how easy it is to be impressed by technical jargon we do not under-
stand, and that the very fact that we do not understand it seems to
be in its favour. When, therefore, a lay audience is told—quite
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 49
correctly—that two successive blood counts taken at short intervals
from the medium showed a difference in the red blood cell count of
two hundred thousand, their amazed eyebrows rise hardly less high
than were they to hear of the miracle of the loaves and fishes being
repeated in their midst. Yet to the medical expert the increase
indicates nothing abnormal, still less para-normal.
All that I had heard concerning the experiments carried out by
American doctors made me determine to get, if possible, first-hand
information regarding these experiments and, further, to get these
tests repeated in London. Mrs Garrett was more than ready, as
ever, to co-operate. I aimed at obtaining the help of specialists
whose standing would lend to their opinions the highest authority.
Through Dr Helena Wright I was fortunate enough to obtain for
the blood-count experiments the co-operation of Dr Cuthbert
Dukes, O.B.E., M.Sc, M.D., D.P.H., etc. ; and for the electro-
cardiographic experiments, the co-operation of Dr. Geoffrey Bourne,
M.D., F.R.C.P., etc.
The experiments were carried out in the consulting rooms of these
doctors with Dr Helena Wright assisting. Dr Nandor Fodor, the
Director of the International Institute for Psychical Research, was
also present at the experiments. I was present to take down short-
hand notes dictated to me by the doctors, and my notes and trans-
criptions were sent to them for their approval.
In no instance was there anything to suggest para-normality in
the results of any of the tests made ; in no instance was there any
corroboration of the claims I have quoted concerning physiological
changes during the trance state.
In addition, with the exception of the electro-cardiographic
tracings, these experiments were repeated by Dr WiUiam Nunan,
M.D., and Dr V. J. Woolley, M.D. (former Hon. Research Officer of
the Society for Psychical Research), both members of the Medical
Committee of the International Institute for Psychical Research.
Their finding agreed with those of Dr Dukes in being entirely
negative from the point of view of para-normality.
I have already mentioned that there existed no published Report
on previous experiments to which I could refer, and my determina-
tion to obtain if possible first-hand information. Mrs Garrett pro-
vided me with tables of figures, which she said were the results of
the American experiments, undertaken by Dr. Traeger in New
York. I made copies which I then sent back to Dr Traeger, asking
for corroboration and for advice regarding the conduct of further
experiments. Further figures, charts and diagrams were sent me
by Dr Traeger, and I ajn indebted to him for very ready co-opera-
50 K. M. Goldney [part
tion. These charts and figures were, however, accompanied by a
warning from Dr Traeger that the work already done had been
interesting but merely tentative, and that no conclusion was
claimed. I was told that copies of the Journals I have quoted had
caused perturbation by " their attempt to journahze and even
sensationahze the results of these rather tentative experiments
"
and " by their attempt to lend them an aura of accuracy and
finality which they do not possess " ; and it is at Dr Traeger's own
request that I here clarify his position.
All the American figures were confidentially submitted to the
London doctors who undertook to repeat the experiments.
The Tables attached to this Report give in detail the results
obtained in the London experiments from the various tests made :
(a) Before trance.
(6) During trance : Uvani in control.
(c) During trance : Abdul Latif in control.
{d) After trance.
I will here touch upon these results only in summary, and give
the final opinion of our doctors on the results of their own tests,
and their comments upon the American figures which I submitted
to them.
These opinions should be contrasted with the false conclusions of
the Psychic Press already quoted.
Electro-cardiographic tests.
Commenting upon the electro-cardiographic tracings from
America submitted to him, Dr Geoffrey Bourne writes as follows :
" On examining this set of tracings, there is a similar uniformity
with one exception, that of the tracing described as Trance No. 2,
date Oct. 18th, 1935. Here there is a change in the R-S complex
in Lead 3 ; but in my opinion this change is within the Hmits of
what might be produced by some overdistension of the stomach,
or variation in the position of the diaphragm.^ Such changes in
Lead 3 are common."
Regarding the electro-cardiographic tracings he himself took,
Dr Bourne comments as follows :
" I took electro-cardiographic tracings of Mrs Garrett before her
two trances, duLring each of them, and afterwards. The prints are
enclosed. I can find no significant change in any of these tracings,
which obviously come from the same individual."
^ Note. This latter could be controlled.—K.M.G. • i •
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 51
Basal Metabolic Charts.
Commenting upon the basal metabolic charts from America sub-
mitted to him, Dr V. J. Woolley writes me as follows :
" AU that these charts show is that when the subject made violent
inspiratory gasping efforts she consumed more oxygen than when
she was lying quietly at rest. This is not surprising : in fact it
would have been surprising if any other result had been obtained.
In all Basal Metabohc Rate determinations, the first essential is for
the subject to remain quietly at rest throughout. All these charts
show is how not to do it."
Blood Chemistry.
Commenting upon the American figures submitted to him, Dr
Dukes writes as follows :
" The figures for these tests are such as one would expect if the
same tests were carried out on normal people. The blood sugar
varies in healthy persons between 100-180 milhgrammes, and may
change 10 or 20 per cent, in the course of a few minutes. The urea
nitrogen also fluctuates throughout the day, so that the variations
recorded for this individual are such as would be found under
normal circumstances."
Note. In view of the fact that nothing paranormal was found
when considering the more important claims, other tests in blood
chemistry, changes due to injection of drugs, etc., were not con-
sidered worth while repeating.
Haemoglobin.
Commenting upon the American figures submitted to him, Dr
Dukes writes as follows :
" I regard the variation in the haemoglobin recorded for this lady
such as one would expect when repeated tests are carried out at
short intervals. There is perhaps an exception in the figures you
have underlined on page 4, and I admit that this is difficult to
accoimt for. However, since all the other figures are so much
within the Umits of what might be expected under normal circum-
stances, I should not draw any conclusions from this isolated
observation without knowing more about the conditions under
which they took place."
Regarding his own tests, Dr Dukes writes :
" I estimated the haemoglobin by both the SahU and Haldane
methods."
52 K. M. Goldney [part
Dr Dukes found nothing unusual in the results of the tests he
made.
Red Blood Cells Count.
Commenting upon the American figures submitted to him, Dr
Dukes writes :
" It must be admitted in the first place that the degree of accuracy
with which blood counts can be carried out does not extend beyond
the first 100,000. In fact, unless very special precautions are under-
taken, and the person carrying out the test is working under the
most perfect conditions, I should think that one might expect
variations of \ million in 2 counts carried out at short intervals.
This does not mean that the blood actually changes, but these are
the Hmits of accuracy of the method employed. Unless special care
is taken in the graduations of the pipettes and in the manner of
collection of the blood, I should say that even wider variations
might be expected in normal people. This being so, I find that most
of the blood counts are definitely within normal limits. There are
two recorded which are shghtly high, and then there is this peculiar
count on page 4-.^ Apart from this I do not think that these blood
counts show any evidence of any change taking place in the blood
during trance."
Dr Dukes also drew attention to the fact that in the American
figures numbers are given down to too small a figure—one count,
for example, is quoted as 4 milhon and 50 thousand ; another as
3 million and 10 thousand ;
whereas, as Dr Dukes pointed out in
the quotation I have already given, the degree of accuracy with
which blood counts can be carried out does not extend beyond the
first 100,000. A quotation of 50,000, still more of 10,000, would
therefore be meaningless.
Kegarding his own tests for red blood cells, Dr Dukes writes :
" My general conclusion is that there is no variation in the blood
count in these different states. Such minor changes as are shown
in these recorded figures are within the limits of the accuracy of
the methods employed. ... I should be grateful if you would
thank the subject of our experiments for her willing co-operation."
Summarising what he felt on considering the American figures as
a ivJiole, Dr Dukes writes :
" My general opinion about the whole question is this : I should
say that these chemical and microscopical tests are such as one
^ About which comment had akeady been made when deaUng with the
haemoglobin, q.v. p. 51.
154] A Series of ExjJeriments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 53
might expect to find by repeated tests carried out on the same
person. No conclusion can be drawn from the tests that any
unusual change takes place in the blood during the period of trance.
. . . My own feeling is that the matter is not worth looking into
any further along these hues."
A word as to the variations shown in the London experiments in :
The pulse rate.
. The plantar reflex.
Eye reflexes.
Pulse Rate.
This showed considerable change, which might appear surprising
to those unfamiliar with pulse variations. Dr Nunan wrote me :
" A variation of 10-30 could be caused by a cough—a laiigh
—
the IDEA of being examined, etc., etc. I have myself suggested
variations from 60 to 120 in a patient '
put to sleep '
by suggestion.
Breathing rapidly will increase pulse rate naturally (i.e. for physio-
logical reasons)."
Experiments which I carried out with a couple of friends showed
variations in ourselves of 10 in successive counts due merely to
difference of posture ; a difference of 15 was effected by puffing
twice at a cigarette.
Plantar Reflexes.
There was an absence of plantar response during trance.
Dr Woolley considers that plantar anaesthesia would be common
in hysterics or during a state of fight auto-hypnosis.
Eye Reflexes.
Perhaps the most spectacular of the trance conditions was the
ability shown by the control Abdul to hold the medium's eyes open
without blinking for a prolonged period, notwithstanding a torch
being flashed into them. At the tests carried out in Dr Bourne's
consulting room, this state was maintained without blinking for
7 minutes, and released then only upon instruction by Dr Wright.
Upon this result Dr Nunan comments :
" Very many normal people can stare imblinkingly, even at a
bright object, for indefinite periods. Hysteria or hypnosis would
produce similar results."
Dr. Bourne summarises his comments on these tests as follows :
" The other sensory changes noted (conjunctival and plantar) are
64 K. M. Goldriey [part
to my mind similar to what is found in cases of functional sensory
change, i.e. functional anaesthesia."
It is disappointing to have to issue a negative report to any
investigation. The extensive setting forth of purely negative results
in this instance is necessitated by the publicity given by the Psychic
Press to unjustified conclusions regarding the trance state, upon
which I commented at the beginning of this report. Truly the
greatest enemies of matters psychical are its own devotees. It is
not, I feel, too strong a comment to make that not only do such
exaggerated statements bring the whole subject into disrepute
amongst careful and serious enquirers, but that these travellers'
tales, so Hghtly disseminated, are largely responsible for the fraud
so extensively practised in our midst to-day which feeds upon public
ignorance and readiness to accept as established facts phenomena
which should be regarded merely as experimental hypotheses.
APPENDIX 1
Copy of letter from Dr Cuthbert Dukes commentmg upon the American
figures submitted confidentially to him for his consideration.
No. 1 Queen Anne Steeet,
Cavendish Squaee, W. 1,
20th May, 1937.
Dear Mrs Goldney,
Many thanks for your letter giving the results of the tests
on Mrs Eileen Garrett. I have read these through carefully and
may perhaps be able to help you if I tell you what sort of impression
they make upon me.
With regard to the blood chemistry (page 5). The figures for
these tests are such as one would expect if the same tests were
carried out on normal people. The blood sugar varies in healthy
persons between 100-180 mg., and may change 10 or 20 per cent,
in the course of a few minutes. The urea nitrogen also fluctuates
throughout the day, so that the variations recorded for this indi-
vidual are such as would be found under normal circumstances.
Regarding the haemoglobin figures, I should like to point out that
there is always an error of at least 2 or 3 per cent, in estimating
the haemoglobin even when carried out with the greatest care,
using the same pipettes and standards. Unless these precautions
are taken, the error might be even greater. I regard the variation
in the haemoglobin recorded for this lady as such as one would
expect when repeated tests are carried out at short intervals. There
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 55
is perhaps an exception in the figures you have underHned on page 4,
and I admit that this is difficult to account for. However, since all
the other figures are so much within the hmits of what might be
expected under normal circumstances, I should not draw any con-
clusions from this isolated observation without knowing more about
the conditions under which they took place.
I feel much the same about the figiires for the Red Blood Cells.
It must be admitted in the first place that the degree of accuracy
with which blood counts can be carried out do not extend beyond
the first 100,000. In fact, unless very special precautions are taken,
and the person carrying out the test is working under the most
perfect conditions, I should think that one might expect variations
of \ million in 2 counts carried out at short intervals. This does
not mean that the blood actually changes, but these are the Umits
of accuracy of the method employed. Unless special care is taken
in the graduations of the pipettes and in the manner of collection
of the blood, I should say that even wider variations might be
expected in normal people.
This being so, I find that most of the blood counts are definitely
within normal Umits. There are two recorded on pages 1 and 5
which are shghtly high, and then there Is this pecuhar count on
page 4. Apart from this I do not think that these blood counts
show any evidence of any change taking place in the blood during
trance. Personally I should interpret these chemical and micro-
scopical tests in the opposite sense and say that in so far as they go
they rather lead to the conclusion that the condition of the blood
is as constant as might be expected under normal circumstances.
In saying this I must, of course, make an exception of the count
recorded on page 4 after the injections of strychnine ; but as I say,
one would have to have a great deal more information about this
before drawing conclusions from it.
My general opinion about the whole question is this—I should
say that these chemical and microscopical tests are such as one
might expect to find by repeated tests carried out on the same
person. No conclusion can be drawn from the tests that any un-
usual change takes place in the blood during the period of trance.
. . . My own feehng is that the matter is not worth looking into
any further along these fines.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) Cuthbert Dukes.
(Note. In spite of his opinion that the matter was not worth
looking into any further along these fines, Dr Dukes very kindly
consented to repeat the tests. —K.M.G.)
56 K. M. Golclney [PAKT
APPENDIX 2
Mrs Eileen Garrett '
Examination into the physiological changes alleged to take place
during trance
Blood tests carried out by : Dr Cuthbert Dukes, O.B.E., M.Sc,
M.D., D.P.H. Pathologist, St. Peter's Hospital, London ; Director
of Research Laboratory, St. Mark's Hospital, London ;
Lecturer,
Bac, King's College for Women ; Fellow of the Royal Society of
Medicine.
Address : 1 Queen Anne Street, W. 1.
All other tests carried out by : Helena Wright, M.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P., M.B., B.S.
Address : 9 Weymouth Street, W. L
Date; IGth June, 1937.
Tests carried out ON Eileen Garrett (before Trance)
Time Test Remarks
5.35 Sterilisation of 2 c.c. Record Syringe com-
pleted.
5.40 PULSE 76. (Right radial.)
5.43 TEMPERATURE 98-5. .
RESPIRATION 24.
5.45 BLOOD TEST (See below.)
5.47 EYES Pupil reflexes to light ;
quick and adequate,
both sides.
5.50 KNEE JERKS Sluggish on l-^ft ; absent on right.
PLANTAR REFLEX Flexor on left : none on right.
5.45 HLOOT) TEST (Preparation : rubber band applied round
upper right arm ; skin over vein, anterior
of right elbow, sterilised with pad of cotton,
alcohol and ether. Blood poured into an
anticoagulate : sodium oxalate ;
placed in
screw-top bottle and bottle closed.)
Puncture made in vein with sterilised syringe :
2 c.c. blood withdrawn.
Result (reported by Dr Dukes : see letter)
:
Haemoglobin (Sahh) - 81%.
Haemoglobin (Haldanc) - 100%.
Red Blood Cells : 4,100,000 per cm.
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 57
Tests carried out on " Uvani " Garrett (during Trance)
Time
5.51
5.56
Test
6.1
6.3 PULSE
RESPIRATION
6.10 EYES
6.16 plantar reflex
6.17
5.59
6.1
KNEE JERKS
BLOOD test
Remarks
Medium commences to go into trance (yawns,
whining, etc., following by quiet, regular
breathing).
Uvani comes through. Is told we want Abdul
Latif later.
Uvani states he is satisfied he is in control of
medium, and that tests can be proceeded
with.
(Blood test done—see below.)
108. Very different " feel ". Previously
pauses, with slower beat. Now obviously
quicker, even, feels stronger.
19. Very shallow : uneven.
(Uvani told by Dr Wright : "I want to count
how often you breathe.")
Right eye (method of opening : left hand of
medium trying to force up upper eyelid,
right hand of observer pushing down lower
lid).
Eye turned upwards ;
apparent difficulty in
moving eyeball downwards. Only half the
pupil vivsible. Torch flashed on, quick con-
traction of pupil, but not maintained while
torch kept on : i.e. relaxation occurred in
the presence of the light.
Left eye. (Same technique for opening.)
Same apparent difficulty in moving eyeballs
downwards. But whole pupil visible.
Torch flashed on : no contraction at first,
then sluggish contraction. No relaxation
observed in presence of light.
For Uvani's remarks, see note (a) on page 61.
No sign on either foot.
For " Uvani's " remarks, see note (6) on
page 61.
Left knee : marked response.
Right knee : slight response.
For " Uvani's " remarks, see note (6) on
page 61.
Fist clenched.
Bandage held in right hand. Same process of
preparation as above : same syringe, re-
sterilised ;
58 K. M. Goldney [PAKT
Tests carried out on
Time
6.2
Test
UvANi " Garrett (during Trance)—
Continued. ,
Remarks
Blood withdrawn from same vein, 2 c.c. No
bleeding. Bandage taken from hand.
Result (reported by Dr Dukes : see letter)
:
Haemoglobin (Sahh) - 83%.
Haemoglobin (Haldane) - 104%.
Red Blood Cells : 4,200,000 per c.mm.
Tests carried out on " Abdul " Garrett (during Trance)
Time
6.21
6.25
6.29
6.34
Test
KNEE JERK
BLOOD test
PULSE
respiration
6.36 EYES
6.41
after
6.41
6.44
Remarks
" Uvani " goes, being told we now want
" Abdul ". Medium shifts about, whines,
yawns ;
eyeballs, previously upturned,
come down.
" Abdul " comes through. (See note (c) on
page 61.)
Left knee : brisk reaction.
Right knee : exaggerated reaction.
(See below.)
88. Different quality. Excursion of the beat
feels shallower and is irregular, but with
small irregularities. Beats very strong.
7. Dr Wright tells " Abdul I want to
count the number of times you breathe."
Each breath slow, much deeper than pre-
viously, marked abdominal movement.
Absolutely different from " Uvani's " breath-
" Abdul " instructed to try and look at
medium's nose.
Right eye : very slight reaction ;
wavering.
Left eye : the same.
Both eyeUds apparently spontaneously held
wide open without any bhnking ;
eyeballs
staring and quite still ; reaction to torch
flash is instantaneous contraction then
wavering relaxation. Same on both sides.
EyeUds released : stare maintained from 6.36
without blinking.
plantar reflex Absolute lack of response, both feet.
temperature 98-7. (" Abdul " previously remarks he does
not think temperature has changed.)
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 59
Tests carried out on
Time Test
6.29 BLOOD
6.50
6.51
Abdul " Garrett (during Trance)—
Continued.
Remarks
Bandage offered—refused by " Abdul ", who
shows that he has an excellent grip. Pre-
paration as previously ; same syringe : re-
sterilised, if c.c. blood withdrawn from
same point on vein.
Result (reported by Dr Dukes : see letter)
:
Haemoglobin (SahU) - 80%.
Haemoglobin (Haldane) - 102%.
Red Blood Cells : 4,400,000 c.mm.
Dr Dukes left consulting room before Dr
Wright had finished her tests on " Abdul ".
Following these, Dr Wright had conversa-
AFTER TRANCE
tion with " Abdul " on general matters.
" Abdul " leaves, standing up from couch,
very active, and sitting in chair. Usual
signs and movements on medium coming
out of trance.
Eileen Garrett back.
Pulse 76.
60 K. M. Goldney [part
0)
cS
cS
a
Sj O
ft;
o a>
l.a
o
o
3
o
CI
<i) I—
I
Ph
0) q
Oi O
SO
o
TO O
O
Ph
Si
CD
4-- fH
O
o
o
O
d
>
c3
a a
P- S
o
1^ ,
(Li
-d
a 2 .a
^ S
^ o
a
d
o
73
o
_o
d
o
o
X
d
o
<v
d
o
d
CO d
d 1«
d o
CO
iH _d
/4
4J
nd
™ to — CO
d d « d
" o
Ph
CO
o
Ph
03
^ ft;
S o
o P
o
5r' d
U).2
03 O
03
.0 ..
. . 03
,0
_o
"3d
o
a
ID
w
c
_o
"So
o
a
0)
CIS
K
a,
S CO 00
05
3
Phi
GO
o 00
00
as
C
O
u
1)
Fh
H
W
M
<!
W
W
J
H
H
H
PS
>
H
<!
0
P
PQ
<!
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 61
Appendix A
RemarJcs made by " TJvani " {Mrs Eileen Garrett in trance)
Note. When " Uvani " was asked whether he was properly in
control of the medium when tests were commenced, he replied :
" The moment that I am able to get response in words (note :
presumably this means directly the medium is able to speak as
" Uvani "), you must know that a moment Ijefore, I have control of
that part of the mind with which I work ; and from the moment
that I begin to make preparation for speech, I am using my attitude
through the medium."
Question :
" Then by the time we took tests you were in full
control of the medium ?
"
Reply :
" I am never in full control, but I am in control."
Note (a). During the eye tests, Uvani was asked :
Question :
" Were you aware when Dr Wright flashed the torch
in medium's eyes?
"
Reply :
" Only once. When the eyehd was Hfted and hght let in,
then at this point (touching forehead high above right eye) I was
aware of vibration of light. On this side (touching forehead above
left eye) I was not aware of anything."
Note (b). When the plantar reflex was being tested, Uvani was
asked by Dr Wright :
" Can you feel when I touch medium's feet?
"
Reply: "No."
When LEFT knee jerks taken Uvani reported he felt it very much
in forehead area on the right side (3 inches above beginning of hair,
in right temple corner, 2 inches from middle line) " like '
chck ',
'
click ', '
chck '
—an effect of hght."
When RIGHT knee jerks taken, Uvani stated he felt " a little blur,
like a httle shaft of light—zig-zag— " (felt an inch above beginning
of hair, in left temple, 2 inches from middle line).
Note. When the tests were finished on " Uvani ", the medium
was moved back into lying position on the couch, Uvani explaining
he could control the thinking process of the medium, but had difli-
culty and was slow in moving the medium's body.
Appendix B
Remarks made by "Abdul Latif {Mrs Garrett in trance)
Note (c). " Abdul Latif " appears : robust and hearty—in
marked contrast to " Uvani ". Is able to move medium's body
freely, in contrast to Uvani (see previous note).
62 K. M. Goldney [part
When knee jerks are taken, Dr Wright asks " Abdul " :
" Does
that hurt?
"
Abdul rephes :
" No ; should it?
"
Dr Wright says :
" Do you know what I am doing?
"
Reply: "No."
The knee jerk tests repeated, rather hard tap on knee, whereupon
" Abdul " says :
" Ah! now you have something that pricks a little
—there " (indicating high frontal area on right side of head when
left knee tapped).
When blood test was to be taken, and bandage placed in medium's
hand, " Abdul " remarked :
" I do not want this ; I have a good
grip—a good grip—a good grip " (all very hearty talk : has an
excellent grip).
" Abdul " is asked :
" Is it trying for you to hold your hand like
that?
"
Reply :
" No—no, no, no!
"
When blood was withdrawn, " Abdul " was asked :
" Did you
feel that?
"
Reply: "No."
Question :
" Do you know what was done?
"
Reply : "Oh! most certainly. Ha! Ha! You have taken from
the vein a little blood."
Question :
" What did we use?
"
Reply :
" A little suction."
Question :
" And it didn't hurt you ?
"
Reply: " No, no!
"
When eyelids opened, " Abdul " was asked :
" Do you see more
with the eyelids open?
"
Reply :
" I do not see, but I keep them open for your benefit."
Eyehds held wide open—eyes staring—for period of five minutes
without any blinking. Dr Wright inchned to think this pose impos-
sible in normal consciousness—Dr Dukes agreeing with this surmise.
Torch flashed several times in pupils during this five minutes. At
end of five minutes, " Abdul " instructed to release eyelids, and
does so.
When the plantar reflex was tested, " Abdul " states he is unaware
of medium being touched.
164] A Series of Experiments ivith Mrs Eileen Garrett 63
APPENDIX 3
Copy of letter from Dr Cuthbert Dukes commenting upon the results
of the tests made by him.
1 Queen Anne Street, W. 1,
nth June, 1937.
Dear Dr Helena Wright,
I enclose herewith the figures I obtained for the haemoglobin
estimations and red cell counts on the three samples of blood
collected yesterday.
The first was before the medium went into the trance, and
numbers two and three were taken at intervals noted in your
report when the medium was in a state of trance.
I examined each sample of blood separately and in duplicate and
give you the average of the readings. I also estimated the haemo-
globin by both the Sahli and Haldane methods. The Sahli always
gives a reading 20 per cent, lower than the Haldane, SahU's normal
figures for the haemoglobin being 80 per cent, and Haldane's 100
per cent.
My general conclusion is that there is no variation in the blood
count in these different states. Such minor changes as are shown
in these recorded figures are within the limits of the accuracy of
the methods employed. I finished the tests at 10 p.m. after having
started my day's work at 8.30 a.m. and I should be more inclined
to attribute any slight differences in the figures to myself rather
than to the subject of our experiments.
I very much regret that owing to the pressure of other work I
had to make such an unceremonious exit and was unable to take
any more personal interest in your side of the investigations. As
you know I had just received an urgent call and had to spend all
my spare minutes in packing my bag. That is why I was unable
to join in your other observations. I should be grateful if you
would convey my regret also to Mrs Goldney and thank the subject
of our experiments for her willing co-operation.
With kindest regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) Cuthbert Dukes.
64 K. M. Goldney [PAET
APPENDIX 4
Mrs Eileen Garrett (Medium)
Examination into the physiological changes alleged to take place during
the trance state
Electrocardiographic Changes.
Tests carried out by Geoffrey Bourne, Esq., M.D., M.R.C.S.,
F.R.C.P. ; Asst. Physician, Officer in charge of Cardiographic
Dept. ; Demonstrator Prac. Med., St. Bartholomew's Hospital,
London. Physician, King George Hospital, Ilford. Hon. Consult-
ing Physician, Letchworth Hospital. Examiner, Pharm. and
Therapeutics, University of Cambridge and Med. Soc. Apoth.
;
Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine.
Address : 47 Queen Anne Street, London, W. L
Assisted by : Helena Wright, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., M.B., B.S.
Address : 9 Weymouth Street, London, W. L
Date : 27th September, 1937.
Tests carried out on Eileen Garrett (before Trance)
Time Test Remarks
5.43 KNEE JERKS Brisk both sides.
5.45 plantar reflex 1 Defensive Reflex. No true Babinsky.
5.46 pupillary Both pupil reflexes very marked. No move-
REFLEXES ment of lid. Conjunctival reflex. Corneal
reflex.
5.48 ability to KEEP Test No. 1.1
EYES OPEN Test No. 2.
1
WITHOUT A
BLINK
5.50 RESPIRATION c. 14 a minute.
5.54 ELECTRO- Deep breath taken and let out at Dr Bourne's
CARDIOGRAPH instruction ;
then deep breath taken, held, let out.
Tests carried out on " Uvani " Garrett (during Trance)
Time Test Remarks
5.57 Mrs Garrett instructed to go into trance.
Yawns ; whines ; httle gasps ;
deep
breaths (usual signs preceding trance with
this medium). " Uvani " greets those
present in 2 minutes. States his satisfac-
tion that the electrocardiogram experiment
ELECTRO- should be repeated. Is instructed by Dr
CARDIOGRAPH Boume to keep the medium still, while the
graphic tracings are made.
j-Well under a minute.
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 65
Tests carried out on
Time
6.0
6.2
6.4
6.5
UvANi " Garrett (during Trance)—
Continued.
Test Remarks
RESPIRATION c. 14 to the minute. Breaths much shallower.
PUPILLARY " Uvani " told to open medium's eyes.
REFLEXES Apparently opened with great difficulty.
Immediate pupillary contraction to flash of
torch, and relaxation when light turned off.
Conjunctival and corneal reflex absent.
PLANTAR reflex Knee jerks both sides exaggerated.
Plantar reflex : no response of any kind, both
sides.
Apparent inability to maintain eyelids wide
open.
ABILITY TO keep
eyes open
without a
blink
Uvani " asked to depart in order to allow
Abdul to come through. Abdul through
in about 2 minutes with much chatter.
Tests carried out
Time Test
6.7
6.9
6.12
6.30
6.31
respiration
electro-
cardiogram
respiration
pupillary
reflexes
ability to hold
eyelids open
knee jerks
plantar reflex
AFTER-TRANCE
STATE
ON " Abdul " Garrett (during Trance)
Remarks
" Abdul " appears, and chats affably and
volubly.
Deep slow breathing. 5 to the minute.
(First test.)
Third graphic tracing made. ;
(Second test.) 7 to 8 to the minute. '
Brisk both sides. Conjunctival reflex and
corneal reflex absent.
Note. Breathing becomes more rapid during
this test. About 20 to minute.
Eyelids are held open without any movement
for 7 minutes—then are released on instruc-
tion from Br Wright.
Knee jerks exaggerated both sides.
No plantar responses. (For " Abdul's
"
remarks, see note on page 67.)
" Abdul " asked to leave and allow medium
to come out of trance.
Usual movements, head slightly tossing on
pillow ;
whines, grunts, etc.
Trance state ends.
Note. A fourth electrocardiographic tracing
was taken after the trance state had ended ;
but none of the other tests repeated.
66
1J
CD -2
O O
o
01
13
-2
cS
C
o
Pm
iT. JIf. Ooldney [part
a
O 03
CO (1>
03
03
tiC
el
a
+2
d
03 -
d
cS 03
Oh
&i O
^ d
d
03 ;2 <S
O o cS
03 '
'
r^U
d O
03 ;£ ^
s §
03
-d
03
c3
d
03 4^
a, d
o o
03 2
03
« -a.
03 tiD
.a p --p
1=1
03 • rH
tn
03
CO
.
03
d
d
d
H 33
03 +^
rd 00
O M
(M _d
+i '(-(
d d
o
-i I
03
>
»3
O)
03
qd
03
03
qd
03
o d
o
O
03
d
°^
O
•r^ 03
o "
p-( . ^
rd t-i
d
t3
03
d
d
-f-i
rd
fcJD
"d
03
rd
&
d
t3
d
03
qd
03
_>
'-+3
o
d
d
o 5c
•43 o §
O
d.2
03 fH
CO
0^
M (-^
03 03
qd q=!
Oj OJ ^
H tH 03
, I
^ 'O
03 S w
d rS
P4
"2
a
M ^
03
M 03
r-. qd
Is
¥§
o
• £^ 03
CO ria od
.d (H
'
t/3
^ 03
+^ pq M
^ § g
•C o —
pq
03
+^
aj
f-t
03
bC
t>D
cS
>^ .
03 73
•-^rd
^ o
d
d
c3
4H CO
O OJ
03 'm
C/3
d rd
2
03 02 -P
03
4^
cS
!-l
03
be
bD
03
03
rW ^ C3
5n ^
03 d
••-^rd
d o
\4 ^
M
03
OQ
d
o
P-i
M
03
t4
-
1
o rd
nd
OQ
O)
a 00 .a o
EH
EH
W
o
H
H
i^ ^ ^ 4^
T-H t~ 03 03
Eh
H
Ct5
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 67
Appendix
Remarks made by " Abdul ", in answer to questions put by Dr Helena
Wright when knee jerks were taken
Abdul's knee jerks were exaggerated ; there were no Plantar
responses.
When questioned by Dr Wright, and asked to describe what he
felt, Abdul replied that he felt a response on the left side of head
when the right knee jerked ; and on the right side of the head when
the left knee jerked. He described this response to the jerks as
the " sensation of a glow—like the quick strike of a match in the
head ".
(Note. Compare Abdul's remarks on sensation in head produced
by knee jerks with those made by Uvani during the same (knee
jerk) tests on 16th June, 1937—during the experiments carried out
by Dr Cuthbert Dukes and Dr Helena Wright. Uvani reported an
" effect of light—click, click, cHck "—on the right side of head
when left knee jerked ; and " a little blur—like a httle shaft of
light—zig-zag " on left side of head when right knee jerked.) Abdul
also described his sensations on this occasion (16th June), saying :
" Ah! now you have something that pricks a little—there " (indicat-
ing high frontal area on right side of head when left knee tapped).
Abdul was then asked to suggest how he thought it could be
proved that he—Abdul—and the medium w^ere separate entities.
After some chalF on this subject, Abdul suggested that 24-hour
tests on Mrs Garrett, followed by 24-hour tests on Abdul (the
trance personahty) would necessitate the opinion that there were
two distinct personalities : a male and a female personahty ; and
that a radical change would be shown.
APPENDIX 5
Copy of letter from Dr Geoffrey Bourne commenting on
(1) Results of the tests made by him.
(2) The American figures submitted confidentially to him for
his consideration.
47 Queen Anne Street,
Cavendish Square, W. 1,
2'ird November, 1937.
On September 27th, 1937, I examined Mrs Garrett here,
with Dr Helena Wright.
I also took electrocardiographic tracings of her before her two
68 K. M. Goldney [part
trances, during each of them, and afterwards. The prints are
enclosed. I can find no significant change in any of these tracings,
which obviously come from the same individual.
On examining the set of tracings taken by Dr (X) in America
there is a similar uniformity with one exception, that of the tracing
described as 2 (Trance) Date Oct. 18th, 1935. Here there is a change
in the R-S complex in Lead 3, but in my opinion this change is
within the limits of what might be produced by some over-distension
of the stomach or variation in the position of the diaphragm. Such
changes in Lead 3 are common. The fact that Leads 1 and 2
remain identical throughout lends support to this view.
The other sensory changes noted (conjunctival and plantar) are
to my mind similar to what is found in cases of functional sensory
change, i.e. functional anaesthesia.
(Signed) Geoffrey Bourne, M.D., F.R.C.P.
APPENDIX 6
Copy of letter from Dr Helena Wright
The Stone House,
9 Weymouth Street,
Portland Place, W. 1,
Nov. 30th, 1937.
On June 16th, and September 27th, 1937, I was present
while Dr Dukes did the blood tests reported, and Dr. Bourne took
the electrocardiograms.
Dr Dukes and Dr Bourne have sent their conclusions on the
results of these tests. During the course of both sets of tests I
took the various observations detailed in the reports.
The opinions of Dr Dukes and Dr Bourne on the absence of
abnormal readings I take to be conclusive.
In my opinion the examination of Mrs Garrett should be extended
with the purpose of trying to determine whether any of the pheno-
mena observed, such as the absence of bhnking, etc., are different
from, or impossible in, a state of hysteria.
(Signed) Helena Wright, M.B., B.S. Lond.
154] A Series of Exj^erin'ients with Mrs Eileen Garrett 69
PART II
A REPETITION OF DR J. B. RHINE'S WORK WITH
MRS EILEEN GARRETT
By S. G. Soal
I. Introduction
Although my investigation of Mrs Garrett is only a small part of
a much larger programme of research dealing with the work of Dr
Rhine, I have thought it worth while to pay special attention to
Mrs Garrett's work for two reasons.
In the first place Mrs Garrett is one of the very few professional
mediums who have placed their services unreservedly at the dis-
posal of the scientific investigator, and for this attitude alone she
merits very high praise. In the second place Mrs Garrett quite
definitely ranks as one of the subjects for whom Dr Rhine makes
very remarkable claims. These claims Dr Rhine has given in con-
siderable detail in an article published in Character and Personality
(Vol. Ill, No. 2, December 1934). According to this article Mrs
Garrett obtained remarkably successful results in both telepathy
and clairvoyance.
Thus in a clairvoyant series of 3525 guesses carried out in the
normal state, she wins -888 correct hits. This is a deviation from
chance expectation of + 183, i.e. over 7 times the standard devia-
tion. There can be no doubt that this result is highly significant,
whatever statistical procedure is adopted in evaluating it. Of this
series Dr Rhine remarks :
" Out of 3525 trials for clairvoyance in
the three days, 1550 were made with a distance of at least 15 feet
and with at least one wall between the cards and the sensitive, and
these 62 runs of 25 yielded a higher average score than did the 1975
made with the cards on the table with the sensitive " (6-5 per 25
as against 6-1 per 25).
In another series of 625 trials at Pure Telepathy she scored 336
correct hits, this being equivalent to an average of 13-4 correct hits
per 25 guesses sustained over 25 packs of cards. The reader will be
able to appreciate the remarkable significance of this result when
I assure him that in a series of over 100,000 guesses (using a random
sequence of cards) I have obtained only a single set of 25 with as
many as 13 guesses correct and no set with more than 13 correct,
a result which is in accordance with chance expectation.
Of course, in the above 625 experiments of Dr Rhine presumably
70 S. G. Soal [part
the experimenter constructed a mental series of card-images in lieu
of using actual cards, and it would be an assumption under such
circumstances to take mean chance expectation as 5 successes per
25 guesses. At the same time I fail to see how the average could
reach the level of 134 unless both guesser and experimenter practi-
cally confined themselves to the same pair of symbols, and one can
hardly suppose that Dr Rhine could pass over without mention
such a glaring absurdity as this. I can therefore find no normal
means of accounting for Dr Rhine's success, and it would be super-
fluous to quote more figures from his article. I will merely note
that although the experiments with the medium in the trance state
were few in comparison with those in which she was normal, there
was one series of 100 for telepathy in the trance state in which she
scored no less than 44 correct hits.
When, therefore, Mrs Garrett at the beginning of last May
expressed her willingness to try some experiments with Zener cards,
I eagerly acquiesced. In order to create a friendly atmosphere it
was arranged that Mrs Garrett and I should meet at lunch at Mrs
Henry Richard's house in company with a biologist and a medical
man interested in her work. The first 375 guesses were done at
Mrs Richard's house after lunch with Mrs Goldney acting as agent,
but the remainder of the series were carried out in the Psychological
Laboratory at University College, Gower Street. Full details of
the experiments will, I hope, appear in my forthcoming report on
Extra-Sensory Perception, but as this may not be available for
some time I feel it is advisable to put on record now a fairly complete
account of the experiments and results obtained.
Mrs Garrett has now returned to America, and until she comes
back there is no prospect of further experiments being carried out
with her in this country.
2. General Remarks on the Experiments
I have been assisted by eleven persons in the conduct of the
experiments. Five of these were advanced students in the depart-
ments of Psychology and Philosophy at University College. These
were Miss J. Stephens (J.S.), Mr A. J. Marshall (A.J.M.), Mr A. J.
Bould (A.J.B.), Mr D. C. Russell (D.C.R.), and Miss M. Baldwin
(M.B.). One of these (A.J.B.) showed me some remarkably signi-
ficant results which he had obtained at home with his brother acting
as agent. The two brothers told me that they sat in different corners
of the room, but were not screened from each other. The younger
brother (H.G.B.) thought of a sequence of Zener card images to be
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 71
guessed by A.J.B., but no actual cards were used. A.J.B. told me
that during the experiment lie did not look at liis brother.
In these experiments neither of the sequences would be random
sequences, and it would be hazardous to assume that the mean
chance expectation for 25 guesses was 5. The two brothers came
to University College and carried out telepathic experiments in
which a random sequence of actual Zener cards was employed, a
screen being interposed between the two brothers. At certain of
these experiments I was present as a witness, but at others I was
not. None of the results obtained were significantly above chance
expectation. On one occasion (in my absence) the brothers reverted
to their former method, except that they used a screen, but again
the results were without significance, although there was some
interesting light thrown by one short sequence on the possibihty of
similar number or sequence habits being evoked by an external
stimulus.
Of the remaining six persons. Miss E. Siderapoula (E.S.) is the
Secretary of the Philosophical Department at University College.
She is keenly interested in clairvoyance and has assisted me on
many occasions. One day she took home with her a few packs
of my Zener cards to experiment with alone, and obtained what
appeared to be remarkable results. These results, however, could
not subsequently be confirmed in my presence in the laboratory.
I pointed out to E.S. that the three packs she took home contained
each an unusually large number of the same particular symbol. As
E.S. would become aware of this after doing a few sets of 25, no
great importance could be attached to the high scores obtained.
E.S. has by training now become a very competent experimenter,
and under good conditions does not exhibit any faculty of clair-
voyance (that is in my presence).
Mr H. J. Heckle (H.J.H.), Mrs M. Johnstone (M.J.) and Miss
Rita Elliott (R.E.), who took charge of the experiments in Series
(ii) (Table B), have assisted me for periods varying from one to
three years, and I feel that now I can trust them to carry out my
various techniques without deviating from the prescribed routine.
The experiments fall naturally into two distinct series, which I
shall call Series (i) and Series (ii). In Series (i), which was carried
out between 8th May and 24th June of last year, I was present
inside the room on every occasion and manipulated the cards, there
being also present Mrs Garrett and the agent or witness.
In the second series, carried out between 30th August and 30th
September, I arranged for the agent to be alone with Mrs Garrett
while I remained in an adjoining room. In this latter series the
72 S. G. Soal [part
experimenters were, with one exception (Mrs Naumberg, an Ameri-
can visitor), chosen from my trained helpers, and I exhorted them
to do all in their power to give the medium encouragement of a
verbal kind and praise for successes, etc.
It is often urged by the more emotional devotees of the super-
normal that when a medium fails under test conditions to obtain
his or her accustomed phenomena the failure is not due to the
exceptional care and good technique of the new experimenter, but
to the fact of his critical or sceptical mentality inhibiting the free
play of the psychic's powers. It is doubtless true that many
fraudulent mediums have tried to explain away their failures under
the cover afforded by this hypothesis. Nevertheless there may be
an element of truth in the hypothesis itself, though I doubt if it is
wholly true. It is maintained by Dr Rhine and others that the
secret of success with these Zener cards lies in the power of the
experimenter to suggest the idea of success to his subject. Now
the most suggestible state we know is the hypnotic state, and I
have experimented extensively with at least two hypnotic subjects.
I was able to put these subjects to sleep, to induce in them visual
and auditory hallucinations, complete insensitiveness to pain as
tested by deep pricking with a sterilised hat-pin, and the successful
performance of post-hypnotic suggestions. When I suggested that
the subject should see what was on the face of a Zener card he saw
and described one of the five symbols at once, but statistical tests
showed that what he saw by suggestion had no relation to the
symbol on the actual card itself. Of these experiments with the
hypnotised subject, Mr Ryecardt, 500 were tests in Pure Clair-
voyance with 105 correct hits, and 350 were (U.T.) experiments
with 63 correct hits. In neither case were the results significant.
It does not seem to be true, therefore, that mere power to suggest
success can be the real secret. On the other hand I have had at
least one subject (a well-known art photographer) who possessed
xmliraited confidence in his power to guess the symbols on cards.
He came to No. 14d Roland Gardens, saying that he had not come
to be tested, but to " demonstrate " to us the reality of telepathy.
He told us that he had often read a whole pack of cards through
correctly from top to bottom. We tested him, using a screen, but
to his own disappointment and amazement he failed completely.
He then told us that he had usually done this kind of thing in the
evening after having imbibed a certain quantity of alcohol. He
invited me and a friend to his studio one evening, and after a suit-
able libation he tried the telepathic tests, but again failed absolutely
to beat the laws of chance.
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 73
In order therefore to eliminate any disturbing effects on Mrs
Garrett due to my mentality, which I admit is somewhat sceptical,
I took the precaution of carrying out Series (ii) in which I should
be absent from the room. If it is retorted that when I was not in
the room I still exerted a telepathically inhibiting effect on Mrs
Garrett, then I am afraid I have no answer. At the commence-
ment of the experiments Mrs Garrett told me that she would prefer
not to know the exact number of correct hits she obtained on each
occasion. However, I thought it advisable to inform her when she
scored an eight or a nine ; and when she obtained a six or a seven
I said usually, " That's splendid, you're doing fine," etc.
3. Summary of Techniques employed
We have made experiments in both Pure Clairvoyance and Un-
differentiated Extra-Sensory Perception, with the medium in the
normal state and also in the alleged trance.
I must explain at the outset that three persons are concerned in
the experiments of Series (i). In clairvoyance experiments these are
the experimenter (S.G.S.), the witness and the subject or guesser
(Mrs Garrett or her trance personahty). The experimenter is the
person who deals out the cards and keeps the record, while the duty
of the witness is to check the number of guesses reported correct by
the experimenter. The witness also signs the record sheet, and thus
testifies that he is in agreement with the entries made by the
experimenter.
In the telepathy experiments the experimenter (S.G.S.) again
deals out the cards to be guessed, and generally supervises the
work ; but in this case the witness or agent, as he is now called, has
duties in addition to those of checking and witnessing. He is the
person who looks at the card while I hold it close to the screen, and
tries to transmit its image to the guesser, Mrs Garrett, who sits
behind the screen. This second person is therefore called the
witness in clairvoyance experiments and the agent in telepathy
experiments.
In Series (ii) (Table B) only two persons were present : the sub-
ject, Mrs Garrett, and the agent, who was now also the experimenter.
Without exception the Pure Clairvoyance work was done by
means of a " screened " matching technique. In these experiments
denoted by (P.C.M.) (normal) or (
P. CM.)
^ (Trance) the medium
sat behind a black metal screen measuring 2 feet broad by 1 foot
^ In what follows underlined techniques such as P.C.M. or U.T. signify
that the medium was in the alleged trance.
74 S. 0. Soal [part
6 inches high, which stood on the table. Between the bottom edge
of the screen and the table was a gap |" high, through which the
medium could push a hght metal pointer. The screen stood over
the centre line of a row of five " target " cards bearing in order the
symbols +, 0, Star, Rectangle, Wave, and fixed faces upwards to
the table by means of drawing pins. Between each pair of cards
was a gap of about j". The experimenter sat facing the screen,
and with his left elbow resting on the table held the pack of 25
cards in his left hand close to the centre of the screen, the backs of
all the cards being towards him. At the signal " Next " the medium
had to guess the bottom card of the pack (i.e. the card nearest the
screen) by pointing with the rod at the corresponding " target
card ". The experimenter then lifted off the bottom card, and
without looking at its face placed it carefully opposite the target
card chosen by the medium. At the end of 25 guesses the 25 cards
thus found themselves arranged in five piles, all the cards being face
downwards. To prevent confusion by mixing, the five piles were
planted at considerably wider intervals than were the " target
"
cards, but in the same order as the latter.
A count was then made of the successes under each symbol, and
these were recorded on the scoring sheet by the experimenter thus :
The count was carefully checked by the witness.^ If the score
obtained by the medium was 6 or more, she was told, " You are
doing splendidly! " etc., and when the score was 8 or more I usually
told her the exact number. When the score was 5 or below 5, I
passed to the next pack without comment.
During the trance state the medium sat with her chin supported
on her left forearm. Her eyes were at first closed, but I managed
to induce " Uvani " to open them, and in this state he was able to
manipulate the pointer quite satisfactorily with his right hand in
both the (
U.T.M. ) and the (P.C.M.) experiments.
I performed a considerable number of experiments in " Undif-
ferentiated Extra-Sensory Perception " by the use of a " screened
"
matching technique, since both Dr Pratt and Mr Tyrrell lay con-
siderable stress on the importance of what we might term " auto-
5
{ +
0
s
R
1
0
2
1
1
iw
' The distance between subject and experimenter was about 3 feet 6 inches.
154] A Series of Experimeyits with Mrs Eileen Garrett 75
matic " methods of guessing. This technique denoted by (U.T.M.)
(Normal) or (U.T.M.) (Trance) is not a very rigorous one. Never-
theless I thought it would be interesting to see if Mrs Garrett would
obtain any apparent success by its use. If any significant results
had appeared I should, of course, have made a careful investigation
of its normal possibihties.
The chief danger lies in the possibility that the agent or experi-
menter watching the motion of the pointer along the row of cards
may make some involuntary audible movement that will cause the
medium to stop the pointer at the correct card, which, of course, is
known to both agent and experimenter. The objection does not
apply to the (P. CM.) technique. I have, therefore, in addition,
done a series of telepathy experiments using my ordinary more
rigorous (U.T.) technique.
In the (U.T.M.) and (U.T.M.) series the experimenter sat at the
side of the table close to the screen, and the agent faced the screen.
As before, the experimenter held the pack close to the centre of the
screen with the backs of the cards towards the agent's face. Having
enquired if the medium was ready to begin, the experimenter closed
his eyes immediately before lifting off the top card of the pack for
the agent to visualise, and then with closed eyes called out " First
Guess " or " Next ", as the case might be. Immediately the card
was exposed the agent looked at it, and then formed a visual image
in his mind or sometimes a verbal image of the name of the card.
The agent remained silent throughout. By this method the experi-
menter, who is ignorant of the card exposed when he signals " Next
"
to the medium, can give nothing away by the inflections of his
voice. Not until the medium's pointer had come quite definitely to
rest on some particular card did the experimenter place the exposed
card face downwards on the appropriate pile. The details of record-
ing and checking are the same as in the (P.C.M.) experiments.
In the ordinary (U.T.) (Normal) and (U.T.) (Trance) experiments
the subject was hidden both from experimenter and agent by a
light wooden screen, measuring 3' 0" by 3' 0", which rested across
the centre of the table, there being no gap between screen and table.
A vertical board fixed underneath the table and used in both (U.T,)
and (U.T.M.) experiments prevented the subject from getting a
glimpse of the agent's legs or feet, or from making any contact
with them beneath the table. As explained in the (U.T.M.) tech-
nique, the experimenter was ignorant of the card exposed when
giving the signal " Next " to the medium. In the (U.T.) (Normal)
experiments the medium recorded her own guesses in pencil in the
left-hand column of a scoring sheet designed to hold two sets of
E
76 S. 0. Soal [part
25 guesses. In the (U.T.) (Trance) experiments the control
" Uvani " called out aloud the guess, which was recorded by the
experimenter on his own scoring sheet. In both (U.T.) and (U.T.)
experiments the experimenter recorded the actual card sequence by
means of five rubber stamps of similar make and weight, the
" actual " symbols being thus inscribed in the right-hand column
of an identical scoring sheet. When the medium had recorded her
guess she intimated the fact by giving two taps with her pencil on
the table.
At the end of 25 guesses the medium read aloud her colunm of
guesses, still remaining on her side of the screen, while the experi-
menter copied the hst on his own scoring sheet. The process was
then repeated for the next 25 guesses, and when the 50 guesses
were completed, the medium, still retaining her seat behind the
screen, handed the sheet to the experiment/er, who then copied his
own " actual " card columns on to the medium's sheet. In this
way the medium saw nothing of the actual card sequences which
had appeared.
In the (U.T.) (Trance) experiments only a single record sheet was
kept, since it was felt that the control " Uvani " would find it im-
possible to use a pencil while the medium was in the trance state.
In this case the control " Uvani " called aloud his guesses, which
were recorded by the experimenter. Both scoring sheets in (U.T.)
work were signed by both agent and experimenter before passing
on to the next set ojf 50 guesses.
Whenever the technique employed admitted the making of a
duplicate record sheet, this was posted by the agent to Dr C. E. M.
Joad in an envelope sealed in my presence.
As regards the elimination of involuntary whispering by the
agent or experimenter, no especial precautions were taken beyond
instructing the agent to keep his mouth tightly closed throughout
the work. Before the experiments commenced, the room was care-
fully studied for the possibility of reflections, and the necessary
adjustments made in this respect.
It should be added that all the agents and witnesses employed
were favourably disposed towards a behef in the reahty of telepathic
phenomena. Two of them (K.M.G.) and (M.J.) had obtained what
they believed to be genuine supernormal results with trance
mediums ; and another (E.S.) thought she had obtained remarkable
results when using a pack of Zener cards at home, which results,
however, failed to materialise under more critical conditions.
In the tables which follow I have been unable to make any
analysis of " runs " of successes (e.g. 2, 3, 4, 5, etc., consecutive
154] A Series of Experiments ivith Mrs Eileen. Garrett 11
successes), since the Screened Matching methods do not readily
allow of the experimenter keeping any account of such runs. For
the same reason it was not found possible to analyse the distribution
of a smaller group than 25 guesses.
4. Summary of Results
In Tables (A) and (B) the results opposite the same index letter
but with different suffix numbers were obtained on the same day.
For instance, Bj, B, correspond to the date May 13 and Dj-Dg to
May 27.
Table (A)
(May 8-June 24, 1937)
Index letter
Agent or
witness
Technique
No. of
guesses
No. of hits Value of
Ai K.M.G. U.T. 375 76 0-017
Bx J.S. U.T. 500 112 1-800
B2 S.G.S. U.T. 325 74 1-558
Ci A.J.M. U.T. 550 111 0-011
C2 A.J.B. U.T.M. 375 74 0-017
Di A.J.B. U.T.M. 225 41 0-444
D.C.R. U.T.M. 600 110 1-042
D3 E.S. U.T.M. 200 33 1-531
D4 D.C.R. P.C.M. 450 85 0-347
D5 A.J.B. U.T.M. 200 52 4-500
De A.J.B. U.T.M. 200 36 0-500
El M.B. P.C.M. 1000 198 0-025
E2 E.S. P.C.M. 1425 277 0-281
For Table (A), Series (i), we have *S(x-) = 12-073, which, with
n=:13 degrees of freedom, gives a value of P lying between 0-5
and 0-6.
This may be interpreted to mean that if the series of results
in Table (A) had been produced by chance only, a value of S(;^^)
as large as 12,073 or larger might be expected to occur between
50 and 60 times in every hundred such series. In other words
we ought to be no more surprised at getting such a value than
if we predicted that a halfpenny should turn up " heads " and
found on tossing it that it actually did turn up a head. If
however we had obtained S(;)(;^) = 28"0 or S(x^) = 3'0 we should
78 S. 0. Soal [part
have had grounds for suspecting that some other factor than
pure chance had been at work since either of these values
might be expected to occur on an average less than once in 100
trials.
Table (B)
Series (ii). (S.G.S. absent from room)
(Aug. 30-Sept. 30, 1937)
Index letter
Witness or
agent
Technique
No. of
guesses
No. of hits Value of ^
Fl E.S. U.T.M. 1000 220 2-500
H.J.H. P.C.M. 1000 190 0-625
Hi R.E. U.T.M. 1000 191 0-506
Ji M.J. P.C.M. 400 80 0-000
J2 M.N. U.T.M. 400 81 0-016
J3 M.J. U.T.M. 200 52 4-500
Ki M.J. U.T.M. 1000 212 0-900
Li E.S. P.C.M. 725 150 0-216
L2 E.S. U.T.M. 275 60 0-568
For Table (B), Series (ii), we have >S(x^) = 9-831, which, with w = 9
degrees of freedom, gives a value of P lying between 0-3 and 0-5.
Note. Series F, G, H, J were done on consecutive days, as were
series K, L.
Table (C)
Totals for Series (i) and (ii)
Guesses Hits Dev. St. Dev.i
Series (i)
Telepathy -
Clairvoyance
Total
3550
2875
6425
719
560
1279
+ 9
-15
- 6
±23-8
±21-4
±32-1
Series (ii)
Telepathy -
Clairvoyance
Total
3875
2125
6000
816
420
1236
+ 41
- 5
+ 36
±24-9
±18-8
±31-0
Grand Totals -
12,425 2515 -30 ±44-6
'St. Dev. denote.s the standard deviation calculated from the Binomial
formula '-Jn ^f, which for my distribution is permissible.
154] A Series of Exjjeriments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 79
It will be seen from Tables (A) and (B) that there is no reason to
suppose that any of the agents have obtained paranormal results
with Mrs Garrett. The values of represent the squares of the
deviations from mean expectation divided by the squares of the
corresponding standard deviations. If the value obtained for
exceeds 4-0 this means that the deviation of the actual number of
correct hits from the expected number is either in excess or deficit
more than twice what is called the " Standard Deviation ". Now
in a " Normal " distribution a deviation which is numerically
greater than twice the Standard Deviation occurs on the average
about once in 20 trials. Such a deviation is therefore sufficiently
remarkable to excite our interest, and to suggest at least that some-
thing more than chance may have been at work. The deviation is
said to be " significant " if the odds against its being due to chance
exceed 20 to 1. Thus, if I take a perfectly constructed cubical die
whose six faces are marked 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 respectively, and shake it
inside a box 240 times in succession, the expected number of times
the face " 3 " should turn up is 240 x i = 40.
This does not mean, of course, that " 3 " will turn up exactly
40 times in 240 throws, for sometimes there will be more than 40
" threes " and sometimes less. But if I did the experiment of throw-
ing the die 240 times again and again, the average of the numbers
obtained would approximate to 40 in the long run. The chance
that a " three " will turn up at a single throw is clearly g, and
hence the chance that it will not turn up is 1 - 1 = f
.
Now if, as in this ideal case, the chance is constant at each trial,
the number of " threes " which turn up will obey what is known as
the Binomial Distribution. Thus if I tossed 12 such perfect dice
simultaneously in 12 cups, the possible number of " threes " that
could appear would range from 0 to 12. And if I did the experiment
of tossing the 12 dice 1000 times in succession, the number of cases
in which I should get 0, 1, 2, ... 12 " threes " would approximate to
the successive terms of the Binomial expansion of 1000 x [f + ^]^^.
That is to say the expected number of cases in the 1000 trials in
which 0 threes turned up would be 1000 x [fJ^^.
The expected number of cases with 1 " three "is
1000xl2x[|]iix[i],
etc., while the expected number of cases with 12 " threes " would be
1000x[i]i2.
The " Standard Deviation " of the Binomial Distribution is given
by the formula Jtipll ~p), where n is the number of trials, and p
80 iS. G. Soal [PABT
is the chance of success at a single trial, this chance being supposed
to remain constant during the series.
Thus in our first example of throwing a die 240 times in succession
we have w = 240, f^^.
Hence the Standard Deviation for 240 trials is V240 x ^ x | = 5-77.
If I tossed a single die 240 times in succession and counted more
than 52 " threes " or less than 28 " threes ", I should have obtained
a deviation in either case from the average (40) of more than twice
the standard deviation. That is the odds against such a result
being due to the fluctuations of chance would be nearly 20 to 1,
and I should suspect that the die was not evenly balanced about its
centre. A solitary deviation of this magnitude would, of course,
prove nothing, bixt would suggest that I shoiild repeat the experi-
ment of tossing the die 240 times to note if similar deviations were
obtained. If I got a similar result the next time, I should go on
making repetitions until I was satisfied that some factor beyond
chance was in operation.
If, however, I did the experiment 60 times in succession and
found that in only three cases did the deviation numerically exceed
twice the standard deviation and in each case by no serious amount,
and if in addition I found that the total deviation of the number of
"threes" which turned up in the whole 60x240 = 14,400 trials
differed from the chance expectation (2400) by less than twice the
standard deviation for n= 14,400 trials, I should have no reason to
suspect any other factor at work than the fluctuations produced
normally by chance.
The reader may apply the above to the case of Zener cards by
taking p = \ instead of ^ and n the number of guesses. Thus the
standard deviation in 200 guesses with Zener cards is
s/200xix| = 5-65.
It should be pointed out, however, that the above formula for
standard deviation only strictly holds if the series of cards to be
guessed is chosen in a " random " or haphazard order. This would
be the case if at each guess the card chosen by the experimenter
was determined by tossing a perfectly made^ve-sided die, each face
of which was inscribed with one of the five symbols (assuming the
construction of such a die to be feasible). The formula would not,
for instance, be strictly applicable to packs of 25 cards made up
according to Dr Rhine's plan with exactly 5 cards of each symbol
per pack. For in this case the chance that a card turned up should
be (say) a circle fluctuates as we work through the pack. The first
five cards might happen to be all circles, and in that case the chance
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 81
of the sixth card being a circle is clearly zero and that for each of
the other four suits is j. Dr Rhine's series of cards do not therefore
constitute a random distribution, and a shght correction is required
in the formula giving the standard deviation for n guesses.
The actual problem is, however, further comphcated by the fact
that a person guessing 25 cards in succession will not guess exactly
5 of each symbol, even though he knows that the pack contains
equal numbers of each suit. In the absence therefore of the know-
ledge of how the various guessers have distributed their guesses
over the five symbols Dr Rhine's problem is strictly indeterminate,
and even if we possessed this knowledge the exact solution would
appear to be a rather formidable exercise in combinatory analysis.
Although the ultimate corrections that have to be applied may
be only slight, I was fully alive to these difficulties when I com-
menced my experiments in 1934, and I decided to circumvent them
if possible by using a random sequence of symbols. I had at my
disposal exactly 1200 cards, there being 240 of each symbol. From
these I made a random distribution of 1000 cards as follows.
I first associated with each of the symbols -t- , 0, Star, Rectangle,
Wave the respective numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. I then provided myself
with Chambers' Seven-figure Matheimtical Tables, and read from
them the last digits of the logarithms of the following numbers :
10078, 10178, 10278, ... 99978.
The numbers chosen were thus taken at intervals of 100, so as to
ensure that the last digits in the logarithms should be independent.
If the digit happened to be one of the numbers 1 to 5 the digit was
entered on the hst, or rather the corresponding symbol was written.
If the digit happened to be 0 or 6, 7, 8, 9 it was not entered. From
this sequence I thus obtained a random series of about 450 cards.
The process was then repeated with, say, the following numbers :
10043, 10143, 10243, ... 99943,
and so on, until a hst of 1000 cards had been compiled.
The actual cards were then chosen one by one, according to the
above list, from the 1200 cards in my possession.
In the end there were, of course, not exactly 200 cards of each
symbol, and up to January 1937 I made the mistake of adding or
removing a few cards in such a way as to disturb the distribution
as Uttle as possible until I had exactly 200 of each symbol. After
January 1937 I made fresh random distributions, but without the
above adjustment, which is strictly illegitimate.
After the random series of 1000 cards had been compiled I
82 S. G. Soul [part
divided it into 40 consecutive blocks of 25, and placed the 40 sets
of 25 in their original order into 40 envelopes numbered 1-40.
These envelopes were then placed in order in two cardboard boxes,
rach containing 20 envelopes. Mrs Garrett began with pack No. 1
on 8th May, and worked through the 40 envelopes in order till she
had completed the first 1000 guesses. Strictly I should at this
point have worked out a fresh random distribution of the 1000
cards, but the labour involved would have been prohibitive. Before
commencing the next 1000 guesses, therefore, I reshuffled all the
cards in each of the 40 packs, and also reshuffled the 40 envelopes
in the boxes.
I then worked through the envelopes in the new order in which
they stood in the boxes. In this random distribution the numbers
of the five symbols in the order + , 0, Star, Rectangle, Wave, were
respectively
203, 198, 200, 202, 197.
After series (i) (6425 guesses) had been completed, I went through
the labour of compiling a fresh random distribution from Chambers'
tables, which was used for series (ii).
The numbers of the five symbols in this distribution were :
194, 205, 206, 195, 200.
Returning now after this digression to Tables (A) and (B), we see
that there are just two values of which exceed 4 (one in Table
(A) and one in Table (B). Both these occur in small sets of 200
guesses. Ignoring for simplicity the first 25 guesses we have in all
12,400 guesses. Now if we take out these two sets of 200 with
X^ = 4:-5 we are left with 60 consecutive groups of 200, and I find
that in this batch of 60 groups there is just one with a deviation
(negative) with x^ = 4-0. This group of 200, however, is split
between consecutive days and different agents. In 62 groups of
200 we should expect about 3 groups with and we have seen
there are three such groups. Moreover, when in (J3) Mrs Garrett
obtained ;^;- = 4-500, I was careful to make her do another 1000
experiments with the same agent (M.J.) on the following day. There
is nothing abnormal about this group of 1000 guesses, and if it is
spht up into 5 consecutive groups of 200 none of the values of
even approach 4. I have split up all the other groups of 1000,
600, 400, etc., given in Tables (A) and (B), and can find no group
of 200 with x^>4 except the two which I have cited. A comparison
of Tables (A) and (B) shows clearly that Mrs Garrett is no more
successful in my absence than when I am present in the room. My
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 83
experiments with other subjects point in the same direction. None
of my trained helpers when left alone with a subject appear to
succeed any better than myself. So far as my own observations are
concerned the personahty of the experimenter appears to have no
effect on the results, even though some of my helpers might be
classed definitely as " believers ". None of these helpers, however,
could be described as " highly emotional " or " temperamental
"
people, though their mentalities are of a rather different type from
my own. If one employs hysterical or excitable persons as experi-
menters one will assuredly obtain positive results if one is not
present to watch them as a cat watches a mouse. But if, on the
other hand, one does decide to watch such experimenters, one is
immediately told that one's " personahty " inhibits the results if
these results hapjjen to be negative.
Table (D)
(Totals for Telepathy Experiments)
Technique Guesses Hits Dev. St. Dev.
(UT) and (UT) -
(UTM) and (UTM) -
1750
5675
373
1162
+ 23
+ 27
±16-7
±30-1
Totals 7425 1535 + 50 ±34-5
Table (E)
(Totals for Pure Clairvoyance Experiments)
Technique Guesses Hits Dev. St. Dev.
(PCM)
(PCM)
2400
2600
468
512
-12
- 8
±19-6
±20-4
Totals 5000 980 -20 ±28-3
Table (F)
(Totals for Experiments with Medium in trance)
Technique Guesses Hits Dev. St. Dev.
Telepathy
Clairvoyance
3050
2600
613
512
+ 3
-8
±22-1
±20-4
Totals for Trance -
5650 1125 -5 ±30-1
84 S. G. Soal [part
Tables (D) and (E) show that the medium succeeds on the whole
with neither telepathy nor clairvoyance. It is also seen that there
is apparently no virtue in the " screened matching " or " motor
"
methods advocated by Mr Tyrrell and Dr Pratt. Table (F) demon-
strates that the medium succeeds no better as " Uvani " than when
she is her normal self.
An analysis of the various groups of results has been made by
sets of 25, but in a mere summary of results I shall content myself
with a single analysis of the 12,425 guesses.
Table (G)
(For 497 sets of 25)
A E X X2/E
0, 1 20 13-613 + 6-387 2-99669
2 25 35-207 -10-207 2-95915
3 70 67-483 + 2-517 0-09388
4 84 92-790 - 8-790 0-83268
5 94 97-432 - 3-432 0-11472
6 91 81-195 + 9-805 1-18404
7 55 55-092 - 0-092 0-00154
8 34 30-993 + 3-007 0-29174
9 16 14-637 + 1-363 0-12692
10, 11, etc. 8 8-607 - 0-607 0-04281
Totals - 497 497-049 8-64417
In the above table column A gives the actual number of sets of
25 guesses with (0, 1), 2, 3, etc., correct hits. In column E we find
the expected numbers according to the Binomial Distribution.
These numbers were obtained by calculating the successive terms
of the expansion of 497 x [f + The column X gives the value
of the difference A-E. Adding up the values of X^^/E we find
;Y^
= 8-64, which with n = 9 degrees of freedom gives P lying between
0-45 and 0-50. It is seen, therefore, that using a random distribu-
tion of 1000 cards to start with we do get excellent agreement with
the Binomial Distribution. There is no reason whatever to suppose
that Mrs Garrett obtains sevens, eights, nines, etc., more often than
chance would predict.
5. Conclusion
In the case of Mrs Eileen Garrett we fail to find the slightest con-
firmation of Dr J. B. Rhine's remarkable claims relating to her
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett 85
alleged powers of extra-sensory perception. Not only did she fail
when I took charge of the experiments, but she failed equally when
four other carefully trained experimenters took my place. None of
these four persons were of the " academic " type ;
they were persons
in very diverse walks of Hfe. The one asset they had in common
was a long and meticulous training in the manipulation of cards ;
they had been carefully drilled in avoiding the different sources of
error, and they were not likely to originate any careless methods.
The writer first made the acquaintance of Mrs Garrett in the year
1926, and in the autumn of that year had a series of sittings with
her at which half a dozen persons on the staff of Queen Mary College
were introduced anonymously. Careful records made by myself
(and in several cases by a shorthand notetaker) were annotated by
the sitters, who were all highly intelligent persons. Not a single
sitter was impressed or gave a verdict favourable to the supernormal.
The more serious question will doubtless arise as to whether Dr
Rhine's other major subjects would fare any better if they crossed
the Atlantic. If any of them decide to visit England they may
be assured of the same courteous consideration and careful but dis-
passionate examination that we have tried to accord Mrs Garrett.
I append a statement by Mrs Garrett in which she compares the
conditions of the present experiments with those obtaining in
America. This entirely voluntary statement was written by the
medium before she was told that the results had been entirely
negative.
It will be noted that Mrs Garrett actually prefers my methods to
those of Dr Rhine, and believes them to be better adapted to the
free play of her psychic powers. Indeed, by preserving a quiet
demeanour free from any violent display of emotion or over-anxiety
for positive results, I was simply conforming to what has been the
traditional creed of mental mediums since the dawn of Spiritualism.
Over and over again one is warned in the works of Spiritualists of
every generation to " keep calm and passive ", "to relax the mind
while sitting with the medium ", etc., etc. Above all we are warned
not to badger or press the " spirits " for evidential results or detailed
answers to questions ; we are to remain passive and hope for the best.
I did not expect to obtain from Mrs Garrett the really extra-
ordinary results claimed by Dr Rhine, but I must confess that I did
hope that a medium who had produced an average of 134 correct
hits per 25 and maintained it over a succession of 25 packs of cards
in North Carohna would, at any rate, be able to demonstrate a few
lesser miracles in the country north of the Thames. At the same
time I realise that the medium may have been in some peculiar
86 S. G. Soal I
[PAET
emotioual state at the time when she apparently succeeded with
Dr Rhine, and that possibly she has been unable to recapture this
favourable condition of mind since.
At any rate, I do not wish to convey the impression that Dr
Rhine did not actually succeed in obtaining highly significant
results in his work with Mrs Garrett. I merely record the fact that
neither I nor my assistants succeeded in getting them.
I should hke to add that the impression which Mrs Garrett pro-
duced upon me was one of perfect honesty and straightforwardness
and on this note of appreciation I will end. -
>
Appendix
Statement by Mrs Garrett .
,
134 Piccadilly, London, W. 1,
22nd June, 1937.
I have been asked by Mrs Goldney to describe the difference
in conditions, and what I might term " psychological atmosphere
"
at Duke University (working for Dr Rliine) and in London (working
for Mr Soal) ; further to say how I think that I, as an individual
medium, would respond to these conditions.
When I first went to Duke University, I had no knowledge at
all of what was expected of me. When I found it was card experi-
ments, with something that suggested a game of guessing, I natur-
ally was quite relieved for a day or two, and thought what was
required of me was easy, and entered into the spirit of the thing.
After a day or two of this, however, I began to suspect, though I
was not certain, that I was not using the same receptiveness in
guessing that I use when I am working clairvoyantly. When I
discovered that, I began to get fidgety, and bored with the cards.
So much so that I think Dr Rhine makes a note of my boredom in
his Report. Nevertheless I liked his personality, his cheerfulness,
his ease and his vitality ; and these qualities in him certainly made
me feel I must give results. I still feel, however, that all my results
at Duke were given in this vein, rather than in what I would describe
as a spontaneously psychic working of my mediumship.
I discussed while at Duke with Dr Rhine the suggestion that I
should work with Mr Soal, and remarked that I wondered how his
very different personahty, his quietness, and what might be called
his negative appeal to me, would affect results.
I will now describe my work in London with him. To date I
have done about 4000 guessing experiments, and am to continue.
I asked that I should not be told the results until the end ; I have.
154] A Series of Experiments with Mrs Eileen Oarrett 87
however, had a letter from Mr Soal telling me that the results are
'
most interesting '
and that it is urgent that I continue. Whether
'
most interesting '
means that the results are positive, or com-
pletely negative, I do not know. I fancy Mr Soal would regard
either result as '
most interesting '. I find that while working with
Mr Soal I am able entirely to eHminate the cards, and the personahty
of Mr Soal : in fact, the only thing of which I am conscious is the
idea that I am to display my raediumship as best I can. There is
no emotional tension, urging, or strain to produce results, such as
is noticeable at Duke.
Having worked both ways I prefer the Soal method and set-up ;
and would feel more at my ease in continuing these conditions than
going back to those at Duke. Without knowing the results of my
work with Mr Soal, I feel that his method, and the conditions
working with him, would be more likely to bring out my medium-
istic capabilities than would the Duke conditions. I would explain
this feeling I have by saying that it seems to me that mediumistic
powers would best emerge where the conscious mind is allowed to
sink back into passivity : this, I feel, is allowed with Mr Soal,
whereas at Duke it is being constantly stimulated into activity :
the results at Duke, I feel, are conscious guessing—not the emerg-
ence of pure mediumistic powers.
The above description has been dictated to Mrs Goldney without
preparation, and must be regarded as a spontaneous description of
what I feel with regard to the difference in conditions of work for
Mr Soal and Dr Rhine, and how I respond in my feelings to these
conditions.
To sum up : the conditions at Duke are tense and emotional in
comparison with those with Mr Soal in London. I, personally,
prefer the quieter methods, divorced from constant urging and
'
suggestion ', that pertain in London with Mr Soal : and I feel that
my mediumistic powers would be given more chance to emerge in
these quieter conditions. I shall be interested to find out whether
this is so in fact, after hearing the result of my work at the end of
the experiments.
(Signed) Eileen J. Garrett.
June 22, 1937.
Note by Mrs Goldney. The first paragraph (above) gives my
request to Mrs Garrett. The rest has been taken down by me on
my typewriter as it was spontaneously dictated by Mrs Garrett in
her own words.
(Signed) K. M. Goldney.
June 22, 1937.
88 Reviews [part 1
REVIEWS
I
ERNEST HUNTER WRIGHT, The Case for Telepathy. A Record
of Some Remarkable Experiments. Harper s Magazine, Nov.
1936 and Dec. 1936.
PROFESSOR CHESTER E. KELLOGG of McGill University,
Neiv Evidence {?)for " Extra-Sensory Perception ". The Scienti-
fic Monthly, October 1937, Vol. XLV, pages 331-341.
In the first of his articles Professor Wright, who is chairman of the
Department of English Literature at Columbia University, gives a
lucid and popular account of the alleged evidence for telepathy and
clairvoyance as set forth by Dr J. B. Rhine in his work Extra-
Sensory Perception. Professor Wright, who is evidently a convert to
the belief that Extra-Sensory Perception has been demonstrated by
Dr Rhine and his associates, devotes much space in trying to con-
vince the ordinary non-mathematical reader of the stupendous odds
there are against the theory that Dr Rhine's results are the work of
pure chance. Now, though there can be little doubt that Professor
Wright is justified in his general conclusion that the scores of many
series are due to something more than random variations in sampling,
he makes no serious attempt to examine any of the complicated
statistical problems that are involved. Such an attempt could per-
haps scarcely be expected in an article written for a popular maga-
zine, but the author might have said something of the unsatisfactory
conditions under which many of Dr Rhine's experiments appear to
have been carried out.
In his second article Professor Wright speculates as to the nature
of Extra-Sensory Perception, but here again there is hardly anything
that is not to be found in Dr Rhine's own book. Following Dr Rhine,
the author concludes that clairvoyance cannot be ascribed to any
form of radiation from the cards themselves which impinges on the
brain of the percipient. Telepathy and clairvoyance are considered
as different modes of operation of a single power and it is noted that
when a subject has telepathic ability he is also found to succeed in
clairvoyance experiments. To sum up. Professor Wright's articles
contain hardly anything of interest to the serious student who is
trying to obtain a proper perspective of Dr Rhine's work, but they
may prove entertaining to the uninitiated.
154] Reviews 89
Professor Kellogg's article, which was written as a reply to Pro-
fessor Wright, merits, on the other hand, the most serious attention.
It is, in the main, an able, if somewhat prejudiced, attempt to under-
mine Dr Rhine's position by attacking the validity of his statistical
methods.
That Professor Kellogg is a httle prejudiced against the idea of
Extra-Sensory Perception is clear from certain of his opening para-
graphs.
He writes (p. 332) :
" Since Dr Rhine's reports have led to investigations in many
other institutions, it might seem unnecessary to prick the bubble, as
the truth eventually will out and the craze subside. But meanwhile
the public is being misled, the energies of young men and women in
their most vital years of professional training are being diverted into
a side-issue, and funds expended that might instead support re-
search into problems of real importance for human welfare. This has
gone so far that a new Journal of Para-psychology has been
founded. ..."
It may well be of course that future research may show Dr
Rhine's claims to be without foundation, but I certainly do not think
that further experiments are unnecessary, as the result of Professor
Kellogg's article. For while I am in agreement with a great deal that
he says, I do not consider that he has disposed of Dr Rhine's case.
The author's prejudice is further revealed by his eulogy of Dr
J. E. Coover whose experiments with playing cards he describes
as " a notable example of painstaking, thorough research, and exact
treatment of numerical data." But as a matter of fact Coover's
work is by no means free from serious objections. He tried to obtain
a random sequence of cards by repeated shuffling and cutting of a
single pack of 40 playing cards from which the 12 court cards had been
removed. But, as most people know, a pack of cards cuts more
easily at certain places than at others. Moreover, shuffling by hand
is a very inefficient process and I have found that after several
shuffles there are sequences that are not broken up. Cards often
tend to stick together here and there. If, therefore, Coover's pack
had a tendency to cut at such popular cards as the Ace of Spades, etc.,
the probability of a successful guess might be considerably greater
than 1/40. Actually, as was pointed out by Professor Thouless^ in a
series of 10,000 guesses, the card was guessed correctly no fewer than
294 times giving a deviation from the mean chance expectation of
+44. The odds against this result being due to chance are about 200
to 1. In a recent paper by Professor Cyril Burt (not yet published)
1 S.P.R. Proceedings, Part 139, p. 27.
90 Reviews [part
it is satisfactorily shown that tlie odds against the whole of Coover's
results being the work of chance are of the order 50,000 to 1. If,
therefore, Coover's results are not chance results we must conclude
either that there was some experimental error in his method or that.
Extra-Sensory Perception was shown by certain of his subjects.
My own suggestion is that Coover's method of obtaining a random
distribution of cards was unsatisfactory for the reasons given above.
The correct method is the one I have adopted in my own experi-
ments, i.e. forming a random sequence of the digits 1-5 from mathe-
matical tables. As was shown by Weldon in his famous experiments,
even dice cannot be relied upon to give a random distribution.
But Coover never even troubled to discover the reason why his
results were not in accordance with the laws of chance.
I am in hearty agreement with Professor Kellogg when he says
that a large proportion of Rhine's experiments in Pure Clairvoyance
are vitiated by the possibility of the subjects learning the cards from
marks on their backs, slight flexes, etc. This is a very real source of
error and should have been given far more careful attention by the
experimenters. Personally, I have never exposed a naked card to a
subject in the course of over 100,000 trials. Either a screen has been
used or the card has been covered by a rectangle of white card-
board. Further, I have always made my subjects work through 40
different packs in succession.
It is also pointed out with perfect justice by Professor Kellogg that
in experiments in so-called " Pure " telepathy, in which the agent
thinks of a sequence of card images without using actual cards, the
chance expectation is not accurately known. It is in such cases a
mere assumption to say that in n guesses the mean chance expecta-
tion is njb. There are altogether 5^^" ways of choosing a sequence of
25 Zener cards. But both agent and subject may confine themselves
to an infinitesimal fraction of these 2-98 x 10^'^ permutations. My
own experiments show that certain types of sequences have scarcely
any chance of appearing . The general tendency is to change from
one symbol to another and such combinations as[000 + + +] may
be absent for months at a time.
Last year two brothers, both highly intelhgent, described to me
remarkable results which they had obtained by using the above
method. Detailed lists were not available but the scores per 25
were highly significant on the assumption of a chance expectation
of 5. I immediately set the brotliers to work, using a random se-
quence of real cards in place of the sequences constructed mentally.
The scores fell at once to chance expectation and have never risen
above it in any significant sense. As the brothers did not use a screen
154] Reviews 91
in their experiments at home it seems probable that sensory codes
constructed unconsciously also played a part in the production of
their apparently supernormal results.
Moreover, neither Dr Khine nor Mr Tyrrell have published de-
tailed lists of the card-images used in their experiments in Pure Tele-
pathy, and as apparently no records are kept of such lists, the
information necessary for criticism is not available. Further, as
Professor Kellogg observes, Dr Rhine encouraged his agents to
plan their mental sequences in groups of five. Now the effort to
keep the numbers of each symbol about equal almost inevitably
tends to cause the agent to choose about one of each symbol per set
of five. . . .
Hence the success of the Fisk plan in the case when the subject is
told when he has made a correct guess. If, on the other hand, the
agent tries to avoid this pitfall he will find the greatest difficulty in
distributing his total evenly over the five symbols.
The next important criticism that Professor Kellogg makes is that
Dr Rhine (and the same observation applies to Mr Tyrrell) refuses to
record and analyse the sum total of his records. If the subjects do
badly on certain days, then it is said that the failure is due to some
psychological disturbance and the results obtained on such days are
ignored. But as obviously the statistical data themselves are the
only criterion of the existence of an extra-chance factor we are, if
we adopt such methods, moving in a vicious circle. Professor Kel-
logg argues that either all the data should be included in the analysis
or that a random selection from the total data should be made and
then analysed. I do not agree with Professor Kellogg in his sugges-
tion of a random selection. It might well be that Extra-Sensory
Perception is an intermittent faculty and it seems to me that a far
better method would be to chop up the whole series into consecutive
groups of 25 guesses or even groups of 5 guesses. Then, in the case
of groups of 25, the numbers of scores of 0, 1, 2, 3, etc., successes
should be compared with the terms of the expansion of N[^+^]^^
where N is the (large) number of groups of 25. Any extra-chance
factor which operated unevenly on the different sets of 25 would, in
the long run, be revealed by this method. If the method revealed
no abnormal number of sixes, sevens, etc., the same method should
be apphed to groups of 5, using the expansion of -1-3^]^.
We are now brought face to face with one of Professor Kellogg's
main criticisms. As Dr Rhine, unfortunately, does not use a per-
fectly random sequence of cards he cannot in strictness apply the
Binomial Distribution in the way suggested above. The packs
used by Dr Rhine contain exactly five cards of each symbol. Now
F
92 Beviews [part
even if the subject guessed exactly five cards of each symbol for
every pack, the number of scores of 0, 1, 2, 3, etc., would not pre-
cisely agree with the numbers predicted by the expansion of
The true theoretical distribution can only be found by the methods
of combinatory analysis and is given by Professor Kellogg in his
article, though curiously he omits certain entries. The general effect
is for the Binomial distribution to slightly underestimate both the
number of lotv scores {e.g. 0, 1, etc.) and the number of high scores
{e.g. 7, 8, 9, 10, etc.) while it overestimates scores near the mean
{e.g. 5, etc.)
The differences however {in the ideal case in wJiich the subject
guesses each symbol 5 ti?nes in 25 guesses) are not very serious.
For example the number of sets with scores ^7 would according
to the true distribution be nearly N x 0-229, whereas the Binomial
distribution would predict N x 0-220 where N is the total number
of sets of 25. Again the number of sets with scores ^9 would by
the true distribution amount to iVx 0-051, whereas the Binomial
would predict N x -047 approximately.
Professor Kellogg's table, however, would appear to be of little
practical use since subjects hardly ever trouble to guess exactly
five of each symbol for each pack of 25. What is required is a solu-
tion to the more general problem in which the subject guesses %
circles, n^ waves, etc., where -f- •
• •
-I-
•• •n^ = 25. It is this general
problem which I hope to discuss in the forthcoming report on my
repetition of Dr Rhine's work. To take an example (which how-
ever would never occur in practice) suppose that, using Dr Rhine's
packs, the subject says "
O " every guess. In this case all his
scores per 25 will be exactly 5 and Professor Kellogg's distribution
breaks down entirely. A case which is more likely to occur in actual
experiments is where the guesser tends to avoid some one of the five
symbols. He may, for example, dislike guessing the -I- since it
reminds him of death. If he avoided the + altogether and used
Dr Rhine's packs his scores would
—
though only roughly—be dis-
tributed according to the Binomial iV[f instead of accord-
ing to N[^+^Y^. This is not quite accurate but it gives a rough
idea of the change that has taken place.
Yet for a large number n of individual guesses there would not be
much error in taking the standard deviation as x J x -f,
i.e. 0-4 Jn
since this would now be replaced (approximately) by
V|wxixf =0-387 s/n.
154] Reviews 93
It is, I think, probable that Professor Kellogg greatly exaggerates
the importance of the error arising from the use of the formula
X ^ X f employed by Dr Rhine throughout his work. A further
slight error tending in the same direction arises from the use of the
Normal Probability tables in connection with estimates of signifi-
cance based on the Binomial Distribution. But here again the
discrepancy is small when 7i the number of guesses is large, say 300.
Probably the most crucial series of experiments recorded by Dr
Rliine are those described in the Journal of Abnormal and Social
Psychology, Vol. XXXI, No. 2, July-September, 1936. These were
carried out with Dr Pratt and the subject, Hubert Pearce, in different
buildings of Duke University. The experiments were in Pure Clair-
voyance and there are altogether 73 runs of 25, two such runs being
made each day. The pack was shuffled after each run through and
the records were " sealed after each sitting and deUvered to me (Dr
Rhine) before subject and observer got together."
Dr Rhine divides the series into four groups A, B, C, D. Groups
A, C, D were made with the experimenter in the Physics Building and
the subject in the library. The distance was about 100 yards. In
group B the subject was still in the library, but the experimenter,
Dr Pratt, was in the Medical Building, the distance being now about
250 yards.
In view of Professor Kellogg's criticism of these experiments it
will be useful to give the scores here in full.
A : 3, 8, 5, 9, 10, 12, 11, 11, 12, 13, 13, 12.
B : 12, 10, 6, 4, 10, 10, 2, 6, 5, 12, 7, 5, 12, 11, 9, 10, 6, 3, 0, 13, 10,
12, 12, 4, 4, 1, 4, 4, 4, 7, 6, 5, 0, 6, 3, 11, 9, 9, 4, 8, 6, 0, 6.
C : 5, 4, 11, 8, 4, 9, 9, 8, 9, 10, 2, 7.
D : 12, 3, 10, 11, 10, 10.
In Group D Dr Rhine was with Dr Pratt as an observer.
In these remarkable series all sensory cues were of course ruled
out and as Dr Rhine explicitly states (p. 221) that these four series
represent all the tests given to Pearce with the cards in one building
and the subject in another it cannot I think be fairly objected that
they are a selected series. In fact, as we shall see later, a million
persons might go on guessing for years without producing such a series.
Professor Kellogg in his article has not made it clear how he esti-
mates the significance of these series. As he has obviously not used
the formula employed by Rhine, i.e. Jn-pq, to which he objects, we
assume that he uses a method that does not presuppose a Binomial
distribution. Such a method would be to calculate the observed
mean and standard deviations from the scores themselves and assum-
F 2
§4 Reviews [part
ing—as we certainly may—that the theoretical mean expectation
for 25 guesses is very approximately 5, then calculate the standard
deviation of the mean from the formula o/ JN where o is the ob-
served standard deviation and N is the number of sets in the group.
tn the case of small groups like A, C, D we should use instead
" Student's " formula for " t'\ Such methods are of course crude
as they ignore the true nature of the actual distribution, but the
error is on the safe side. Now, of the whole series A, B, C, D which
contains 73 sets of 25 {i.e. 1825 guesses) I find for the observed
variance
(T '^•5Q'^
(72=12-90. Hence -p==^^= 042.
V73 s/73
But the observed mean score is 7-52. Hence the deviation of the
mean from 5-00 is 2-52, i.e. 6 times the Standard Deviation and the
chance of getting a deviation lying ourside the range ±6 x s.d. is
about 10^9.
If we use the ordinary Binomial formula
Jnx^x^= 71825x^x1
we find the deviation to be 10-8 x s.d.
Dr Kellogg, however, complains that this formula takes no
account of the internal consistency of the scores. But we have seen
that even using the other method we obtain a highly significant
result. Yet all Professor Kellogg has to say about the series as a whole
is :
" Taking all the groups together, the results are positive and
somewhat significant, perhaps sufficiently so to warrant further
study of the problem."
Of Group " B " he writes :
" Group A remains significant, Group
B is just above the border line. ..." But employing the same
method for Group B I find
No. of sets of 25 =43.
Mean Score =6-70.
Observed value of a = 3-68.
Hence
Hence the deviation of the mean from 5-00 the expected value is
1-70, which is just over 3 times the standard deviation. The odds
against such a deviation + or - being due to chance are about 370
to 1 and would be considered significant by most modern psycholo-
gists.
154] Reviews 95
Professor Kellogg states that groups C and D are " well within the
limits of ordinary chance accepted by scientists as not demanding
special investigation and explanation."
Applying " Student's " method to Group C I find i = 2-7 which
with n—ll gives P= 0-02 (nearly).
For Group D, I find i = 3-30 which with re = 5 gives P=0-02 (nearly).
It would appear that considered separately neither of the groups
C and D is very significant by this method, but I have little doubt
that the significance is seriously underestimated by using Student's
formula. Moreover there is no reason to consider C and D separately
since series A, C, D were done under practically the same conditions
of distance.
If we applied the formula Vl50 x f x ^ to series D we should ob-
tain a deviation amounting to over 6 times the S.D. I have never in
all my experience met with a set of 6 consecutive groups of 25
which contained 5 sets with scores all ^10. In fact the greatest
number of scores J^IO which I have obtained in 6 consecutive sets
of 25 is 2.
In the 73 sets of 25 which comprise Groups A, B, C, D the number
of sets with scores is predicted by the Binomial distribution to
be 16-1 and by the distribution given by Kellogg 16-7. Actually,
there are no less than 42 such scores. Now, although neither Kellogg's
distribution nor the Binomial distribution represent the true dis-
tribution for reasons explained above, it is improbable that the ex-
pected number differs much from 17. We think, therefore, that
Professor Kellogg's remarks are misleading ; the whole series of
73 sets is stupendously significant. In fact, since P=10~^ for the
whole series it would take a million men doing each 1,825,000
guesses to win the same degree of significance.
Indeed, if the honesty of the investigators is not disputed this
series would appear to estabhsh the existence of a clairvoyant faculty
in man. It is at the same time regrettable that Drs Rhine and Pratt,
with the knowledge that they were getting epoch-making results
under conditions beyond criticism, did not take every possible
precaution to guard themselves against any suspicion of collusion.
Under such circumstances my own procedure would have been as
follows ; I should have arranged for the head of another department
of the University to be present in the Physics or Medical Buildings to
witness and actually perform the shuffling of the pack and the record-
ing of the actual card sequences. / should have instructed him to
take every precaution that I did not substitute a " prepared " pack for
the one tvhich he had himselfshuffled. The head of another department
would have been waiting outside the Library to collect personally
96 Reviews [part
Pearce's guesses immediately they were finished. The two heads of
departments would then have met and compared the records.
Since Pearce was alone in another building it could scarcely be
urged that the presence of the second observer in the Physics
Building could have affected his scoring, especially as the experi-
ments were tests in clairvoyance.
A few concluding remarks about the four groups A, B, C, D may
not be out of place. Group B, which is the largest, is an excessively
variable set of scores. For instance there is one 13 and no less than
three zeros. There are 288 successes in 1075 guesses so that the
observed YsXvLGSi of p, and g are jo = 0-2679, 5' = 0-7321. On the assump-
tion of a Binomial distribution the expected variance cr^ with these
values of f and q is given by cr = 2-214, whereas the observed variance
is given by ai = 3-68.
On the assumption of a Binomial distribution, the Standard error
of the variance is given by
V N
where N is the number of sets and '
-
'
We thus find .= -
'
f
\ N V 43
= 1-05.
Buta^^ =13-549, a2 =4-903.
Hence the deviation of the variance from its expected value is about
8-6 X Standard Error. It will be seen, therefore, that Series B cannot
be fitted to a Binomial distribution and we must assume that what-
ever extra-chance agency is at work operates very unevenly on
the different sets of 25. In fact, if the agency is Extra-Sensory Per-
ception we can only conclude that it works in a most fantastic
manner, pulling some scores down to zero and raising others to 12
and 13.
S. G. SOAL.
154] Reviews 97
n
Knowledge and Foreknowledge. The Symposia read at the Joint
Session of the Aristotelian Society and the Mind Association at
the University, Bristol. July 9th-llth. 1937. Harrison & Sons,
London. Price 15s. net.
The parts of these symposia which are of special interest to stu-
dents of psychical research are those contributed by Professors
C. D. Broad and H. H. Price. They consist of a paper by Prof.
Broad on the Philosophical Implications of Foreknowledge, a com-
mentary thereon by Prof. Price, and Prof. Broad's reply thereto.
It is surely a fact of great significance that a body of men and
women of such eminence in the world of philosophy as those assembled
at the Joint Meeting of The Aristotelian Society and the Mind
Association should have welcomed a discussion on a subject con-
nected with psychical research. Though we have been able to count
among our members some of the greatest of modern thinkers, the
professional philosopher, as a general rule, has not been friendly to-
wards our subject, even if he has not been openly antagonistic.
It may be said that his opposition need not be unduly feared, less
so, indeed, than his apathy, but the friendly co-operation of the pro-
fessional philosopher would be a great assistance. It would be of the
highest advantage if all concepts employed, all hypotheses suggested,
should be criticised from the standpoint of logic and philosophy, and
none allowed standing room until they have been so " vetted ".
It is this function which Professor Broad undertook in his paper ;
he did not examine the evidence for supernormal precognition, nor
pass an opinion as to its reality ; but he first of all clarified the mean-
ing of the terms in his own inimitable manner and then discussed
what consequences for philosophy would follow if the alleged facts
were actually true. He laid down that if it involves a logical or
metaphysical impossibility, the evidence for precognition, however
seemingly strong, must be rejected.
In this, though many would agree with him, there are doubtless
some people who would demur. While, they might say, there is so
little agreement among philosophers, even on such fundamentals as
the self-evident truths, the claim that metaphysics and logic must
be the final court of appeal cannot be admitted. There are many
different systems of metaphysics and there will, in all probabihty,
be many more in the future, nor is logic a completed science.
Moreover, metaphysics and logic themselves rest, in the last resort,
upon experience, viz. the experience by which we recognise certain
propositions to be self-evident ; from experience we cannot derive
98 Reviews [part
necessary truth. When, therefore, logical and metaphysical impos-
sibility is set over against the evidence for precognition, it is only one
set of experiences, with inferences drawn therefrom, which is being
opposed to another set.
Prof. Broad then examined the three main philosopliical objections,
viz. the epistemological, the causal and the fatalistic.
In discussing the first of these, he points out that the proper
analogue of precognition is memory and not, as many have appeared
to think, perception. In elaborating this point, he makes some
observations on the subject of normal memory—as does also Prof.
Price in his comments—which have value for psychology and phil-
osophy in general, as well as for psychical research. By assimilating
precognition to memory, he shows that the epistemological objection
is not insuperable.
In this matter of memory both symposiasts agree in holding some
form of the " trace " theory as being most probable. Prof. Broad, in
his book. The Mind and its Place in Nature and in his Presidential
Address, postulates traces of a psychical nature, while Prof. Price
thinks that the traces are, at any rate partially, physical, that is to
say, they involve modifications in the cerebro-neural structure.
Trace theories have not met with general acceptance ; Russell has
put forward an entirely different suggestion, and seeks to account for
normal memory by postulating what he calls mnemic causation.
This is a form of causation which operates across a time interval, it
is able to jump the ditch. Should Russell's theory be accepted, it
is, perhaps, a not very difficult step, from the epistemological point
of view, to suppose that the jump can be made backwards, i.e. from
future to present, as well as forwards, i.e. from past to present.
Causal difficulties would, no doubt, arise, but mnemic causation is
itself so odd and incomprehensible that a little extra oddity need
not worry us undidy.
Concerning physical traces I would refer the reader to McDougall's
Modern Materialism, Chap. IV, and Note 7.
Psychical traces, on the other hand, while avoiding some of the
objections which can be brought against the physical theory, are
entities of so unimaginable a kind that it is hard to say what they can
or cannot do, and when or how they can be formed.
I suggest that until we know more concerning the real nature of
normal memory, we cannot draw any safe conclusions from the
analogue between it and precognition.
Prof. Price, in his comments, suggests that our conception of an
event might be modified by postulating the existence of " imagy ",
as well as " sensible " constituents. The sensible constituents are
164] Beviev)^ 99
those which give rise to sense perception and they exist only for the
finite duration of the event, the imagy constituents give rise to images
and they may exist both before and after the event. Tliis is, admit-
tedly, a somewhat " wild " hypothesis, but, as both Professors
Broad and Price admit, one may be compelled to entertain wild
hypotheses when confronted with supernormal facts.
I have made special mention of tliis suggestion because it seems to
me that those who are inclined to accord to it a favourable reception
might find therein a possible explanation of several otherwise refrac-
tory types of supernormal phenomena, e.g. hauntings and psycho-
metry.
Prof. Broad's discussion of the causal objection reveals the full
extent of the difiiculties. The existence of non-inferential pre-
cognition appears to conflict with self-evident propositions concern-
ing causation, but he suggests a possible escape by postulating a
second dimension of time, which, even if a wild hypothesis, is not
logically impossible.
Prof. Price, in his comments, makes a very valuable amendment
by showing that many difiiculties could be avoided by bringing in
telepathy, and this leads Prof. Broad to an interesting discussion
of that subject.
It seems to me that if this suggestion of telepathy combined with
a second dimension of time be entertained, the difiiculties arising from
the Unking of precognition with memory might be surmounted. In
fact, it might be worth considering whether a novel theory of normal
memory might not be constructed out of the same material.
The last, i.e. the fatalist objection, is shown, by an acute analysis,
to be not insuperable.
The upshot of the whole discussion appears to be that, although
acceptance of the reahty of non-inferential precognition may commit
one to the entertainment of wild hypotheses, there is no insuperable
logical difficulty.
It must be admitted that these three papers are not easy reading,
but for those who desire to go to the roots of the matter, a close study
of them will be labour well spent. It is becoming increasingly clear
that some overlapping between psychical research and metaphysics
cannot be avoided, and those researchers who have the ambition to
push their enquiries beyond the stage of the collection and classifi-
cation of evidence must make up their minds, however reluctantly,
to a certain amount of logical and metaphysical criticism.
H. F. Saltmaesh.
100 Reviews [part
III
C. Spearman, Psychology down the Ages. Macmillan & Co., Ltd..
1937. 2 Vols., 454 +355 pp., 30s.
In his earlier books Professor Spearman has made distinguished
contributions to modern experimental psychology. In The Nature
of Intelligence and the Principles of Cognition (1923), he laid down a
system of laws of the intellectual processes of the mind culminating
in his three " noegenetic principles " which he regarded as parti-
cularly connected with the operation of intelligence or " general
ability ". These were : (l) A person tends to know himself ami items
of his own experience, (2) On the presentation of two or more items, a
person tends to know relations between them (as, for example, when the
presentation of the items of " heat " and " cold " produces the know-
ledge of the fact that one is the opposite of the other), and, (3) On
tlie presentation of an item., together with a relation, a person tends to
conceive the correlative item (as when the presentation of the item of
" heat " and the relation of " oppositeness " produces the know-
ledge of the correlative item of " cold ").
In The Abilities of Man (1927), he gave an account of the remark-
able series of measurements in the field of educational psychology
carried out by himself and his pupils following his earher suggestion
(1904) that the problem of whether there was a unitary general intel-
ligence might be tested by examining the mathematical relation-
ships between the correlation coefficients of different test results and
school examinations.
The second volume of the present book is mainly concerned with
these two lines of investigation. It shows how Spearman believes
that the main facts in the intellectual and orectic field can be re-
duced to a system of laws, and the strength of the evidence for the
proposition that there is a general intellectual ability (or G) which is
the " intelligence " measured by intelligence tests and which deter-
mines, to a greater or lesser degree, intellectual abilities in all fields.
The first volume is an account of the rival doctrines on such matters
as " intelligence ", " attention ", etc., about which philosophers and
psychologists have disputed since very early times. The main
impression that one gets from the two volumes is of the way in which
verbal disputes can lead to no final settlement of the problems of
the mind until these are submitted to the test of crucial experiments.
If this is, as I imagine it to be, the central purpose of the book, there
can be no doubt that Spearman is demonstrating one of the most
important principles in the development of scientific psychologists.
Physics would still be a matter of verbal discussions on the nature
154] Reviews 101
of " force " if it had not been redeemed from this state by the experi-
ments of the early physicists. In the same way, psychological laws
will only stand firm so far as they are founded on the rock of experi-
mental evidence.
Spearman's theory of general ability is a brilHant example of the
replacement of free speculation by experimental testing. It is not,
however, the only one, and the author seems not always to be alto-
gether just to experimental workers with whose conclusions he dis-
agrees. The Gestalt psychologists, for example, have performed
distinguished service in the experimental study of the field of per-
ception, but the reader of chapter XXIV in vol. I with the unhappy
title of " The Confusion that is Gestalt Psychology " might easily
gather that Gestalt Psychology has been nothing but a system of
speculations.
The title of these volumes might suggest that this is simply another
historical account of psychology, of which many have been written
during recent years. Valuable though the historical introduction
in the first volume is, I think it is true to say that in these volumes
Professor Spearman has done something more interesting and more
worth while than merely to add another history of psychology.
Robert H. Thouless.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 155
A STUDY OF CERTAIN LEONARD PHENOMENA ^
By Isabel Newton
Those who have had sittings with Mrs Leonard are doubtless
familiar with the kind of impressions that are given through Feda ^
concerning the sitter and other persons—or it may be places—who,
for one reason or another, are associated with the sitting. But as
Mrs Leonard's sitters are limited in number, and there must be
many members who have had no personal experience of her trance
phenomena, I will explain that frequently at sittings the " com-
municator " claims to have visited some specified place, or person,
and to have picked up " certain ideas or " sensed " certain
conditions during the visit. The term " impression " is used in the
telepathic sense, namely, as denoting the effect produced on the
mind or feeling of the percipient, the person who " perceives
"
otherwise than through the recognised channels of sense.
A considerable number of such impressions are scattered through-
out the verbatim records of the Rev. W. S. Irving's sittings, which
have been held at regular intervals since 1921, and of these, 228
refer to the S.P.R., its Officers, and the occupants of the Society's
house. It is these particular impressions, together with six that
were given at two of Mrs Allison's sittings with Mrs Leonard, that
form the subject of this paper.
The purpose of the paper is not to put forward a reasoned case for
telepathy ; I am assuming that in these impressions we have evi-
dence of telepathy, and that the examples illustrating the text will
enable readers to form their own opinion on this point. My paper is
1 This paper was read, slightly abridged, at a Private Meeting of the Society
on March 30, 1938.
^ Mrs Leonard's control.
G 103
104 Isabel Newton [PAET
an attempt to bring order into a confused collection of impressions,
at first sight unconnected, fragmentary, and in no way distinctive ;
and to find some unity in them, which might throw light on the
question why trivial and passing thoughts are so often perceived,
while vivid and emotional experiences are apparently ignored. The
examination of the impressions which relate to myself have sug-
gested an explanation, which I shall put forward, tentatively, when
I come to the " Isabel " section.
The impressions are given in series, and are referred either to
" the Searchers ", Feda's name for the Society, or to " Mrs Isabel ",
Feda's name for me. They are prefaced by such remarks as " She's
been to the Searchers " (or, it may be, to " Mrs Isabel's "), " She's
got a test from the Searchers' place ", or " She wants to say some-
thing about the Searchers " ;
" She ", in each case, being Mr
Irving's communicator, " Dora ". Then follows a series of impres-
sions varying in number from two or three to as many as a dozen or
so. The subject is then dismissed with " That's all about the
Searchers", or "That's all about Mrs Isabel". Occasionally an
impression is forgotten, remembered later in the sitting, and referred
back to a previous context.^ There is an example of this in the
" Isabel " series, where not only is the impression referred back to
a previous group of impressions, but apparently is related to a
particular impression in the group, as will be seen when I quote the
case in another connection.
^
Mr Hubert Wales in his experiments with Miss Samuels (reported
in Proceedings, Part LXXX, Vol. XXXI) failed to find evidence of
any capacity on the part of the percipient to group various impres-
sions relevant to a particular topic, so as to suggest the unity of any
mind other than that of the agent. Now here, it seems to me that
in this quite definite grouping of impressions we have evidence of
such a capacity, though with regard not to a topic, but to a plan or
purpose ; otherwise we should expect to find the impressions given
indiscriminately with the rest of the trance material. The purpose
is, presumably, to give Mr Irving evidence of supernormal know-
ledge at his next sitting.
The two groupings are distinct and yet connected, " The
Searchers " merging into " Mrs Isabel ", and vice versa ; but there
is no confusion between them. Throughout the series the " Isabel
"
impressions are personal, and (with three or four exceptions, which
I call borderland cases) do not touch on my relation to the Society.
In " The Searchers " series I am unrecognised, yet recognition of my
connection with the Society is shown in such references as :
" The
1 e.g., see pp. 111-112. ^
p 12O.
155] A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena 105
Searchers' Isabel ", and " I went to the Office, where the Searchers
are, and she wasn't there, Mrs Isabel wasn't there ".
Except in the six impressions given at Mrs Allison's sittings when
Professor J. H. Hyslop purported to communicate, the ostensible
percipient is Dora, Mr Irving's wife, who died nearly twenty years
ago. (Perhaps I had better state here that the question whether it
is really Dora or whether it is Mrs Leonard who is the percipient
does not come within the range of this paper
I have said that the total number of impressions was 234. But
on examination I found that of these a large number—57, to be
exact—were given when either Mr or Mrs Dingwall (Mr Dingwall
being then an Officer of the Society), or later Mr Besterman, was
present as note-taker, and that they referred to events that were
probably within the note-taker's knowledge. These cases furnish
some points of interest in a complete study of the whole material,
but as they do not come within the limits of this particular study I
have eliminated them. We have, therefore, now a total of 177. of
which 61 are associated by the percipient with the Society, and 116
with " Mrs Isabel ".
Before giving examples, I should like to state again, as Mrs
Salter did when cjuoting a few of the earliest impressions in her
" Report on Sittings with Mrs Leonard " {Proceedings, Part 99,
Vol. XXXVI), namely, that Mrs Leonard has never visited the
Society's house at 31 Tavistock Square. (Nor has she ever visited me
in my own home.) Nor have we any grounds for suspecting that
there may be normal leakage of information about events in this
house, though in a few cases it might, by chance, have been possible.
Such cases are extremely rare.
I should also lilie to endorse Mrs Salter's acknowledgement, in
her paper, of the Society's indebtedness to Mr Irving, not only for
placing at its disposal all his records of sittings, much of which is of
a private and intimate nature, but also for the great care and
trouble he has taken to comply with its requirements. The accuracy
of his records are all independently attested. His annotations were
promptly made, and wherever possible he has obtained independent
confirmation.
I I have not found one impression that could be quoted as helping to deter-
mine this question. When stripped of the Feda-Dora context the impressions
are comparable with those of Miss Samuels, or so it seems to me ; but this
opinion is based on a few examples only, taken at random from Mr Wales's
Report. The sense of reality produced by Feda's lively presentation of the
impressions, and by the personalit3' of Dora as therein revealed, is not easy
to resist. I hope that Mr Kenneth Richmond will deal with this part of the
material in his studies of communicator-personalities.
106 Isabel Neivton [part
Dora is represented as coming to the house and " picking up
"
thoughts and ideas. With reference to her telepathic excursions in
general, she says, " I always sense the place and not always when
there's some one in it—you know, projected thoughts. I help
myself to them." She frequently expresses uncertainty as to
whether her percept is of a thought or of something that has been
spoken of or discussed ; also as to whether it refers to something
that has already happened or to something that is anticipated. On
this point, Feda observed on one occasion : "I found out before
that Dora doesn't always know the difference between to-day and a
quick tomorrow."
She does not know either the identity of the mind from which the
thoughts are derived.
The majority of the impressions refer to small happenings in the
office ; the following will serve as examples :
January 25, 1927.
Feda : "Is there some one new coming to work in the Psychical
Searchers?
""
She got the feehng of some one new coming to work
there.
Mr Irving' s contemporary note is :
Miss Sanderson had recently started work at the Rooms, during the
absence of Miss Wallace.
In my confirmatory note I stated that Miss Sanderson began her
work for the Society on January 15 (that is, ten days before the
sitting). ,
Feda continued :
" New arrangement! Now she doesn't know how to put this, for
collecting the subscriptions. New arrangement about collecting
the subscriptions being thought of in that room.
Mr Irving's contemporary note is :
Miss Newton tells me that, a few days before the sitting, she advised
Miss Horsell [the Assistant Secretary] to give to Miss Sanderson
a certain work to do. It was to take over the noting of the receipt-
of subscriptions.
My own and Miss Horsell's confirmation is added to this note.
At the same sitting {January 25, 1927) an impression was given
which suggests the identity of the agent by indicating the room with
which he was associated :
Feda : She's got to show me this! Ask them if the top's come
unstuck off something that they use in that room. Look! She
got a mental vision of some one doing this (Feda closes her fists,.
155] A ShuJy of Certain Leonard Phenomena 107
holds them close together, and twists the right one, shghtly tapping
the left with the right), and of saying " Isn't it a noosance! " Like
trying to press.
Mr Irving's contemporary note is :
On Friday, January 28, 1927, I looked up Mr Dingwall in his room
at the S.P.R. When I rapped at the door, he said, " Come in ",
but I could not open the door. When leaving the room the same
thing happened, I again could not open the door. Mr Dingwall
showed me how to open it inside by pressing down the handle.
His illustration was exactly like Feda's action, and reminded me of
the test.
Mr Ding-wall added the following contemporary note :
The door to my room at the S.P.R. is inchned to stick in wet
weather. Lately it has been especially troublesome, and few
people can open it. To open it from without the handle should
be gripped with both hands and the handle then pressed down.
Feda continued :
Dora says " You remember last time I gave you a funny little
test . . . the name Violet in connection with it? Well now, I don't
want you to think it means the same thing, it doesn't . . . ask
has some one had violets in this room, just lately, just now? And
was there anything in connection with the violets about forgetting
them, or nearly losing them? Forgetting seems the stronger
impression.
Mr Dingwall's note is :
On Tuesday, January 25, 1927, 1 attended a sitting with the apport
medium, Mr Mills Tanner ; violets were produced as apports, and
with difficulty I managed to secure one. On coming home I looked
in my pockets for the flower but had a sudden shock of disappoint-
ment when I could not find it. Later it turned up in an inner
breast pocket of my jacket. Flower herewith.
This impression of the violets is one of the two impressions in the
wdiole series which seem to have a precognitive element. I shall
refer to it again when quoting the other case, in the " Isabel " series.
The next is one of the cases I had in mind when I said that normal
leakage might have been possible. It will be noted that there is an
association between it and the impression immediately following it.
May 6, 1930.
Feda : AVill you ask the Psychical Searchers this? . . . whether
they have got, either to-day, or tomorrow, a large quantity
of MS. coming in, which must be dealt with? Not ours, not
ours. No! But something coming in—like, in the next day
or two—which seem to Dora to be ... a heavy collection, something
108 Isabel Newton [part
that would necessitate, and has necessitated a great deal of work
. . . That some part of this MS. would refer to Greek, Greek, The
Greek, the Greek.
Mr Salter's ^ note, abridged, is as follows :
Mr Besterman and I attended the 4th International Congress for
Psychical Eesearch at Athens in April 1930. On the evening of the
22nd April a Business Meeting was held, at which, on behalf of the
S.P.R., Mr Besterman and I undertook to have the Transactions
edited in England. This Business Meeting was a comparatively
small one, consisting only of official delegates from the different
National Societies ; there may have been a round dozen of persons
present.
On April 27, Mr Besterman and I left Athens by boat for Marseilles.
He brought with him a considerable number of the papers read at
the Congress ... I travelled straight back from Marseilles to
England. He broke his journey at Paris and stayed two or three
days there. I doubt whether on the 6th May any persons other
than my wife, Miss Newton, Mr Besterman and myself were aware
that there was any suggestion that the Transactions of the Athens
Conference were to be edited in England. The matter was brought
up at the next Council Meeting on May 14, 1930.
Feda continued :
She says that she also felt that they have been ordering some new
books. They may possibly have arrived by the time you enquire,
but she knew they were ordered, do you see?
Mr. Besterman's note :
On my way back from Athens I spent two or three days in Paris
buying books for the Society's Library. This was at the beginning
of May, before the above sitting.
x4.1though there was no diminution in the total number of impres-
sions given during the years 1928-1936, those referring to the
Searchers grew less and less frequent, the proportion during that
period being only 21 (including 14 of the eliminated cases) to 90 in
the " Isabel " series.
In July 1936 Mr Herbert - began to arrange a special book-test
experiment, which Mr Irving broached to Feda at his sitting the
same month. A collection of books, including one specially prepared,
was placed in the seance room and Dora was encouraged to indicate
the position of the special book. It was not until November 1936
that the experiment was fully understood by Feda and Dora, and.
they agreed to co-operate. At the next sitting, which was held on
' Mr W. H. Salter, Hon. Secretary of the Society.
^ Research Officer of the Society.
155] A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena 109
January 19, 1937, impressions referring to the Searchers began again,
and continued during the year. I will quote a few examples :
The first is a borderland case, probably partly " Mrs Isabel " and
partly " the Searchers ". To make this point clearer I will fijst
give my contemporary note, abridged :
On Sunday, January 17, 1937, Professor and Mme Dessoir, of
Berlin, who were visiting London, had tea with me in my flat.
Professor Dessoir asked me if I had received the photograph of Mrs
Sidgwick which he had asked a member of the Society, with whom
he was in correspondence, to send to the Society. We had not
received it. He then said he would send it to the office the next
day, which he did. We received this photograph of Mrs Sidgwick
during the morning of January 18, 1937, the day before the sitting,
when the following impression was given :
Feda : Mr Bill, will you please find out too, is there a new picture
there that's important? Or, are they just getting a new picture,
a portrait one? Dora felt the thought so strongly. Dora says,
" I hope I've picked it up, the thought, before they've got the
picture. I hope I've picked up the thought of the sender, or some
one outside those rooms." She's a feeling this picture is connected
with some one passed over, and that it would be a portrait. She
picked that thought up pretty strongly. She pretty sure about this.
In this case, the idea that some one was going to send a portrait
to the Society may have been picked up at my flat on Sunday. Dora
confidently hopes she is giving information before it is known at the
Society.
Later in the sitting, she again referred to it :
" I'm very interested in that picture," she says, Mr Bill. She
feels that that is, or should be, a good piece of evidence.
At the same sitting {January 19, 1937), Feda said :
Anybody been falling there? Will you ask has any one fallen
there, or been talking about a fall? Dora picked up the thought
very strongly of a fall. Rather a nasty fall, not just a little shp
or stumble, but a nasty fall, something that might have been
quite serious.
As neither Miss Horsell nor I knew anything about a fall, Mr
Irving and I asked Tolhurst (the Society's caretaker) if he knew of
one, and he at once replied that Mrs Despard, our tenant's house-
keeper, had had a nasty fall down the top flight of stairs. In Mrs
Tolhurst's corroborative statement, she gives the time of the fall as
" about 7.30 in the evening a day or two ago ". Her statement is
110 Isabel Newton [PAUT
dated January 20. The accident occurred a few days before the
sitting.
The impression immediately following the above refers also to an
accident, but one which occurred a month before the sitting. This
association of ideas (if not accidental) is interesting, as it suggests
that the association lies in the percipient's mind, not in that of either
of the agents, as neither knew of the other's accident.
Feda : Will you ask if any one has hurt their hand there, or been
thinking about their hand : Not both hands, one. Ooo! as if
they'd hold it hke this, in the other hand (Feda illustrates : [here
follows a rough sketch of two hands, one supporting the other])
and say, " Oh, dear!
"
Miss Horsell's contemporary note is as follows :
On December 19 I badly bruised my right-hand index finger when
opening a french casement window. It ached considerably, and on
my way home by train, which took about \\ hours, I rested my
right hand on my left with the index finger uppermost, as in the
illustration, in order to ease it. I did this also at intervals later.
On April 27, 1937, an impression was given which suggests
clairvoyance, the only case of the kind in the series. After repre-
senting Dora as being in the seance room in connection with the
special book-test, Feda said :
No, Dora! I don't think that would be right! Not bricks! Oh
dear! it can't be right, can it, Mr Bill? Any bricks there, bricks?
Got such a strong feehng of bricks, or pieces of brick. Dora says,
" Of course, I know there's a wall there—it isn't that! " She says
" You see my point? I might say in this room I'm reminded of
bricks. It isn't that." Lots of houses is made of marble! Dora
says, "Never mind! Leave it as I've said it. I'm reminded of
bricks, in this position, in rather a peculiar way. I'm sensing bricks
in an important way." That's right, Mr Bill. " Bricks."
My note is :
In the corner of the room are 4 pieces of red rubber sponge (5f" x 3^"
X H"), which look like bricks. Mr Herbert says he is not conscious
of ever having thought that these sponges resembled bricks, until
he went into the seance room to verify the impression, when he
immediately saw the resemblance. I have no recollection of having
noticed the sponges, but I am in and out of the seance room and
must have seen them.
From towards the end of June Miss Horsell was away on sick leave
for three months, and I took her place in the office. At Mr Irving's
155] A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomeyia 111
next sitting, i.e. on Juhj 22, 1937, eight impressions were given, in
seven of which I was the ostensible agent, and yet no knowledge of
a connection with " Mrs Isabel " was shown. I will quote one or
two of these impressions. The first is interesting, as showing that
an idea may be transferred from its original setting to a setting that
is associated with it. To make the point clearer I will again read
my contemporary annotation first
:
Some time between July 6-14, 1937, 1 lost three keys on a ring, one
of which was the front door key. The loss of the other two did not
matter, but that of the front door was inconvenient as Tolhurst
had to come up from the basement every time to let me in. I
felt that the keys were not really lost. I used the term tem-
porarily lost " both to myself when thinking of them and to
Tolhurst when speaking of them.
After a few days I concluded I had left them in the seance room
when Mr Herbert and I sealed it up on July 6 for the book-test
experiment. As the room was not to be opened until the end of
the month I had a new key made ; the bill for this is dated July 14.
Feda said, at the sitting on July 22 :
She's sorry they've lost the key. The key of something been
missing lately ... It was only lost temporarily . . . but it was
lost. This is important. It wasn't gone, it was mislaid. She
said " key ", but I've got a feeling, though she said " key ", there
are other keys connected or linked up with it in some way, and
the word keys " was mentioned as well as " key That's right.
Later, during the same sitting, when " sensing " conditions in the
seance room, Feda said :
" Why am I getting something about " keys " again here? " Just
put that down, Mr Bill. Have you got that about keys ? I'm making
that remark 'cos Dora asked me to.
Here the idea that was transferred was a mistaken idea, because
the keys were not, in fact, in the seance room. They were found some
days later elsewhere.
In the next impression which I shall quote the percipient is credited
with a capacity to associate ideas derived from two different sources,
and to be reminded, by this association, of an incident that had
occurred in the office. The impression was given on Jidy 22, 1937,
during the part of the sitting when Dora was represented as trying to
find the test-book. Referring to a vaguely indicated book, Feda said :
She got a strange feeling of finance . . . Will you see if there are
sums of money written on it, or printed on it, either on the outside,
or just inside? She kept getting finance, mentions of money. 'Cos
112 Isabel Newton [PABT
that reminds her of something she was going to get through, and
she's glad it does. Has there been in the Searchers' office something
rather puzzhng about money, Mr Bill? About a sum of money :
something that's puzzled them rather, something that has been
very difficult to explain, or account for, do you see? I think that's
right, Mr Bill. She meant to say that among the first things she
said about the Searchers, but she couldn't get it through without
the book. The law of association, we work on that a great deal.
We often have to give ourselves a clue by mentioning something
that opens the way.
It is a pity that the impression did not relate to something more
striking, for it may be supposed that small financial difficulties are
of frequent occurrence in the office. But Miss Horsell, who has been
in charge of the Society's office for a considerable number of years,
says that this is not so. She denies that the impression would apply,
for example, at the present time. She told me of one incident which
she thought it would have fitted, but this, she said, occurred " three
or four years ago ". It would appear, therefore, that something
puzzling about a sum of money . . . that has been difficult to explain,
or account for " is not an everyday occurrence in the office.
The following is my contemporary note on the impression :
On July 12, 1937 [the sitting was held on July 22] I paid into our
Banking account a cheque for £3 3s. Od. which I had cashed from
Petty Cash a day or two before for a member of the Society. I ex-
pected to be able to adjust the matter in a few days by receiving
cash in the office for a subscription or pubhcations, but it happened
that nothing came in until about July 23 ; the note of final adjust-
ment in the paying-in book is dated July 24. In the meantime I was
very puzzled as to how to make the adjustment [before we closed
for the vacation on July 31].
In view of the coincidence in time, coupled with the infrequency
of the incident, I think we may reasonably assume a connection
with Feda's reference. And this assumption is strengthened by the
fact that the impression is the only one of the kind in the complete
collection.
It was not until December 1937 that Mr Herbert and I at-
tempted to verify Feda's allusion to a book in which finance and
sums of money were mentioned. It was merely a matter of routine,
for as no definite indication of the position of the book was given,
and the probability of finding some reference to finance in a collec-
tion of seventy books was great, a " verification " could be of no
evidential value.
As it happened, the only reference we succeeded in finding was a
12 pp. pamphlet consisting entirely of prices and code words for
155] A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena 113
cabling. This pamphlet was inside the cover of a " Catalogue of
Optical and Scientific Instruments ", down the spine of which is
printed, in large black capitals, W. Watson (& Sons, Limited. When
noting the details, Mr Herbert seemed to remember that the name
Watson had been mentioned in connection with a later attempt to
detect the test-book, and on looking through the record of the sitting
held on September 20, 1937 {i.e. the one next in succession to the
sitting of July 20, when the reference to finance was made), we found
the following allusion :
Feda : See if, on the outside of a book, there's a name hke Watts,
or Watson ? This is all round the test-book.
This mention of this distinctive feature of the book containing the
pamphlet is interesting, but it is dilticult to estimate its significance.
We may surmise that on the first occasion Feda's account was im-
perfect, or that Dora's perception of the book was only partial, and
that on the second occasion the omission was rectified. But there is
no evidence of a connection between the two allusions.
Feda's statement that the book bearing the name Watson was
near the test-book was incorrect.
Mr Herbert's subliminal mind may be the source of the Watson
impression. It was he who selected the books and placed them in
the seance room. He may have retained a memory subliminally of
the pamphlet inside the Watson catalogue, and associated it sul)-
limmally with the reference to finance and prices. He did not know,
however, of the incident in the ofiice which was said to be associated
with the idea of finance.
I will conclude this series of examples of the Searchers " im-
pressions with one which also suggests a subliminal derivation. It
was given suddenly during the sitting on Jidy 22, 1937, with
reference to the seance room.
Feda said with apparent irrelevance :
Look! You would say that was in the city, in the town! But, she
says, has there been any vines there? Such a strong feehng of
vines, as if vines once growing there. Will you find out. Dora
says, " As well as providing evidence, I do like to find out why I
get a thing, especially an extraordinary thing like that. Oh, that
came so strongly about the vines, so strongly, as if vines had once
been a feature of this place. Isn't it strange!
"
My contemporary note is as follows :
I had a very strong feeling when I read this extract that there used
to be a hop plant growing where the seance room is now. I do
not know how we can find out whether my impression is correct.
114 Isabel Newton [PAET
Miss Horsell was the only likely person to know, as she was with
the Society when the seance room was built in 1923. She, however,
had no recollection of the matter, and finding that niy impression
was growing more and more micertain, I went, on December 21,
1937, to Balham, and called on Miss Davis, who had lived for a long
time in the house as housekeeper to the previous tenant. Sir Ernest
Olarke. She remembered the hop plant. She referred to it as " a
big hop tree. They cut it down, when they built the new room."
She told me that I had shown her the room one day when she called
at the house after Sir Ernest Clarke's death, and that she noticed
that the " hop tree " was gone. This must have been at least ten
or twelve years ago. It will be noted that my knowledge concerning
the hop tree was, at the time of the sitting, subconscious.
I will now pass on to the " Isabel " series. At this point it may be
useful to state the extent of my acquaintance with Mrs Leonard.
I have never had a sitting with her. I have been present at two
sittings as note-taker : in 1918 and 1924. Apart from these two
occasions, I do not think I have met Mrs Leonard to speak to more
than three or four times. The last time was in 1932. I have never
discussed her mediumship with her, nor intimated to her that any
one of her communicators was interested in the Society or in me.
The persons with whom the " Isabel " impressions are chiefly con-
cerned are not interested in psychical research, and are not associated
with Mrs Leonard nor with Mr Irving. I am not aware ofany channel
by which information regarding my personal affairs could normally
have reached them.
The first impression—the thirty-third of the entire series—was
given at Mrs Allison's sitting on June 11, 1924. As it is included in
Mrs Salter's paper, I will not quote it here. At a sitting in Septem-
ber the same year Feda was asked by Mr Irving to visit my flat, and
at a sitting two days later she claimed to have done this and to
have picked up certain impressions. These are also included in
Mrs Salter's paper. After that, occasional " Isabel " impressions
were given until 1926, when they became more and more frequent
;
during the years 1928-1936 they completely outnumbered the
Searchers references, as we have seen.
It will be easier to follow this part of my paper, I think, if I state
at the outset that my examination of the " Isabel " impressions has
led me to believe that they are " of the stuff that dreams are made
of ". I first suspected this when considering the following two very
trivial impressions which were given with others, but not consecu-
tively, on January 24, 1935. Feda said :
155] A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena 115
1. She thought Mrs Isabel had wanted a new cloth, a new cloth
to cover the table. She didn't really want to cover the table . . .
but she thought she'd better . . .
2. The name Fanny is connected with Mrs Isabel just now. Some-
thing been happening in her conditions that's a hnk up with
Fanny and the past, thing of some time ago and the name Fanny.
My contemporary annotations are as follows :
1. On the 21st of January when I was preparing for afternoon tea
for a visitor, I found that my small stock of tea cloths were shabby
and soiled, and it passed through my mind that I would put no
cloth on the table. However, disapproving of the appearance of
the tray on the bare table, I put a cloth on, after all.
2. I know only one Fanny, Miss Fanny Lea, who lived some years
ago in the house where I still hve. I met Miss Lea in the Plane
Tree Eestaurant on January 21 when buying cakes for my visitor.
(See above), and we both exclaimed how long ago it was since
we had met . . .
It puzzled me why two such very trivial incidents as these should
have been perceived. There was an interval of about an hour and a
half between my laying the cloth and my meeting with. Miss Lea.
During that time I had lunched with a friend, and we had had an
interesting conversation, yet no idea associated with it had been
picked up.
It will be noted that the two incidents, though separated in time,
were connected with one subject, namely, preparations for a visitor.
The visitor was one of two people who were passing through a very
emotional experience, with which I had been closely associated dur-
ing the preceding three months. These incidents, it seemed to me,
were on the fringe of my reactions to all this emotion : a point of
ingress to a preoccupation ^ in my mind.
Here is another trivial impression :
September 23, 1926. Dora's reminded me of something that has
got to do with Mrs Isabel . . . Will you ask her if she was . . .
dressing something up, like you might dress a doll up, dressing,
dressing something up ? Dora got this as well as Feda . . .
On August 7 [a few weeks before the sitting] I went on a cruise
with a girl whom I will here call A. The cruise was a great dis-
appointment to A. ; in fact, several things happened which caused
her rather acute mental suffering. Towards the end of the cruise a
Fancy Dress Dance was arranged and I persuaded A., who by this
time had become averse to taking part in any festivities, to let me
^ I use the term preoccupation in the sense of something that permanently
occupies a field of interest at an unconscious, or preconscious, level.
116 Isabel Newton [part
dress her up. Two other girls and two children asked me to dress
them too, so that I was busy all day rigging up things for the
evening. (I may say that this is my only experience of the kind.)
Now, my most vivid memory of that occasion is of A., when the
supper gong sounded, asking me not to leave her. She and I were
sitting alone on the deck until two of our fellow-cruisers joined us,
and I slipped away under cover of their presence, to pick up in A.'s
cabin and to throw into the sea every vestige of material connected
with her fancy dress. In short, the occasion of the dressing-up was
a culminating episode in a series of emotional upsets for A., and of
my reactions to them. Here again, it seems to me, there is a point
of ingress to a preoccupation in my mind.
There are several impressions which I suspect are connected
fundamentally with a long-standing preoccupation with the affairs
of someone whom I will call M., a relative of mine who, in my
opinion, has never had a fair chance in life. Here is an example of
an apparently indirect connection :
January 27, 1931 . . . Ask Mrs Isabel has she been wanting some-
thing, well, rather out of the ordinary to wear, and has she been
thinking of it in this room ? [My sitting room] I got the feeUng of
—
" I know ... it sounds most unlikely, a print dress." (Here the
direct voice said winter.) She says, " I know it's the winter ... I
know no one would buy or plan for a print dress now, yet that is
what I got."
Feda continued :
Also has she been tliinking of a piece of glass? Not a looking-glass,
not quite a complete thing in itself, not an ordinary thing. I felt
that I must call it a piece of glass, because it would represent only
a part of the entire article."
My contemporary notes are :
In the summer I bought from an art shop in Burford a gay and
striking gardening apron. In December I bought several pieces
of printed cotton cretonne to make similar aprons, and I made
several of these for Christmas presents during the week or two
before Christmas.
I cannot think of anything in connection with the second impression
except one thing, which occurred however six or seven months
before the sitting. I wanted a piece of bevelled plate glass for the
wall behind a washstand in M.'s cottage. I took the measurements,
and made several enquiries in London for such an article. Finally,
I gave up the idea, on account of the expense of getting it to the
small village in the Cotswolds where M. lives.
The description :
" not a looking-glass, not quite a complete thing
155] A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena 117
in itself, not an ordinary thing (it would have to have been made)
a piece of glass representing only a part of the entire article " is
true of what I had in mind.
In these two impressions, which were given consecutively, there
is an association of ideas such as we get in dreams. I was making
the print into aprons like one I bought at Burford, when I was stay-
ing at M.'s cottage, for which I wanted a piece of glass. The con-
temporary notes show a correspondence in time between the asso-
ciated incidents.
Many of the impressions suggest this dream-like association of
ideas. Here is one connected with dressmaking, which is apparently
another of my preoccupations, of which I shall have something to
say later.
Jtdy 21, 1932. Dora felt Mrs Isabel holding something in her
hands, strips, narrow strips of rather fine, soft material, narrow
strips. As if she was mentally measuring it. Stuff seemed to be
folded in a rather pecuhar manner. Wait, Dora, I know what
you're going to say. " Or else she held it in this way." Look, Mr
Bill! It wasn't rolled round (Feda illustrates winding something,
as if cotton round a reel) but it seemed to be folded hke in long
loops and Mrs Isabel, look! was holding these loops, pulhng them
out in her hands (Feda first illustrates throwing something upwards
in loops, and then pulling something outward from her hands).
Very soft, Dora thinks, narrow. Something between J in. and
1 inch wid-e . . . And then she seemed to be thinking of some
black embroidery. Dora says, " I call it embroidery, I don't know
what else to call it . . . fine again, patterned, patterned, patterned."
My contemporary note is :
At about 6.30 p.m. on the day before Mr Irving's sitting I machined
the hem of a long narrow strip of dark blue silk marocain, 2i in.
wide, 8^ yards long. When Mr Irving read the extract to me he
made certain movements illustrating Feda's, and I recognised them
as resembhng my own movements when machining this strip.
Hanging from the machine to the floor it had got twisted, and at
intervals of about three-quarters of a yard I tossed it up to get a
straight piece, which I then held out before me while machining it.
I mentally divided it into eights, quarters and so on, as I went
along . . . The upper part and the sleeves of the dress for which
the strip was intended is made of fine patterned material ... I may
add that the machined strip was in my attache case at the S.P.R.
when Mr Irving was reading the extract, and I thereupon showed
it to him and to his sister."
Immediately following the above impression was this one
118 Isabel Newton [part
Mrs Isabel was also thinking about how dangerous it was of . . .
something she wore on her neck coming undone. It has come
undone two or three times. Dora thought " She'll lose it if she
doesn't have something done to it " . . . Dora gives me letter L
connected with it. I got a feehng that L may be more to do with
the place that the jewel came from . . .
In my contemporary note I say : that the knotted cord of a neck-
lace of imitation old ivory beads had broken about a fortnight
or so before the sitting, that I had then worn it with the ends
loosely tied together, and on two occasions when out of doors I
had found they had come undone and I thought I should lose it if
I did not get it properly restrung. I had bought it at Liberty's.
It was one of two necklaces only that I had bought at Liberty's.
The other one I bought to wear with the dress referred to in the
previous impression. The dress was made for a special occasion a
year before (the machined strip was for a pleating to lengthen it)
and I had then a good deal of trouble to find a necklace that would
tone with it before I saw^ the one at Liberty's.
The next impression is one in which two single ideas are connected
without perception of any associative link.
April 30, 1931. [Dora was represented as taking a book-test from
a certain bookcase in my sitting room.]
Feda : Anything Dutch here, Dutch, something Dutch? Got such
a strong feeling of Dutch. Yes, wasn't very interested in it, but
just got the thought of it as she was standing there. Must be
something there, she thinks. How funny! She says, " Of course,
it sounds ridiculous, as I stood there two thoughts came to me,
seemed far apart, both mundane. Tennis, tennis. Wonder if
there's anything connected with tennis put there, where I'm
standing by these books." She says, " Just ask about that."
Very puzzled ! Looked round ! Something there, felt sure something
there, connected with tennis. Something Dutch there, and some-
thing connected with playing tennis close there ...
This is my contemporary note :
Standing on the top of the bookcase ... is a small colour print
reproduction of a Dutch picture which was bought at the Exhibition
of Dutch Pictures in London in 1929. Until July 1930 a large
framed photograph of my niece was propped against the wall by
the side of this Dutch picture. In July it was moved to the other
end of the bookcase near the window, where it has remained ever
since. The only suggestion of tennis in my flat is my association
of tennis with this niece. She is a champion player and has won
many tournaments, and during the tennis season I have every
summer followed her progress in the reports of tournaments in
155] A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena 119
" The Times ". She was in the Wimbledon Tournament one year.
I have no other interest in tennis.
I omitted to state in the above note that my niece was wearing
evening dress in the photograph ; there was, therefore, no suggestion
of tennis in it.
The Dutch picture was given to me by Miss Dutton of Sidmouth.
My niece played in the tournaments at Frinton, Budleigh Salterton,
and Sidmouth. I had never been to Frinton, nor to Budleigh
Salterton, but I had stayed several times at Sidmouth with Miss
Dutton, and I had seen the tennis courts there. I had also remarked
to Miss Dutton that I was sorry she was always away in August when
Edna was in Sidmouth for the tournament. In my mind there was
an association between the Dutch picture and playing tennis,
although at the time I did not recognise it.
The next two impressions appear to be precognitive. They were
given at Mrs Allison's sitting on Monday afternoon, June 7, 1926,
and are associated with unimportant activities of mine during the
following day. The scene is again M.'s cottage. She was then living
near Lynton.
In the contemporary note to the first of the four impressions given
at this sitting I explain that for certain reasons connected with some
special work in the office, it would be inconvenient for me to take
the whole of my holiday in August as usual, and that the best
arrangement seemed to be that I should take one week from June
8, and the rest later. I also state that this arrangement was not made
until June 2. It will be understood from this that my being away
from London at that particular time was unusual. The sitter,
however, knew that I was away.
At a sitting at which Professor Hyslop was purporting to com-
municate, on Monday afternoon, June 7, 1926, Feda said :
He has seen her lately in a small and pretty garden not as big as
Gladys's, and she was standing at the side of a path and some
plants, she was looking at some plants . . . that were blown down,
beaten down with rain instead of standing straight, that were lying
flat, and she was standing looking at them.
Feda continued :
Ask her if she wanted some nails recently. He's laughing. Nails.
She was wanting them for a special purpose. Wishing she got some
nails. I think all this happened quite lately, that's why he's
giving it.
My contemporary annotations are as follows (I will reverse the
order of them) ;
H
120 Isabel Newton [part
I rarely want nails. At the time of the sitting I had not used any
for a long time—in fact, I cannot remember when I wanted any
before Tuesday, the day after the sitting. On Tuesday morning,
with the help of a man I put up a summer house, which had been
delivered that morning in sections at M.'s cottage. A packet of
screws, bolts and very long nails had also been sent. Before we
had finished I wanted some short nails.
In M.'s confirmatory note she says the summer-house was delivered
about 10 a.m. on Tuesday and that I began to put it up soon after ;
and that between 2. .30-3. 30 I went in and collected all the nails
she had. Also, that I wanted more nails, and on the Friday after-
noon, June 11, we went into Lynton, and I went off and bought
nails and joined her later.
With regard to the impression of the garden and of my looking
down at plants beaten down by rain : at the time of the sitting it
had not rained. There had been a spell of fine weather, which did
not break until 6 p.m. on Tuesday, and during the rest of the week
there was a good deal of heavy rain. On Tuesday afternoon I had
made a bed each side of the new summer-house and transplanted
there some ferns, fuchsias, and rose trees, and several times during
the evening and the next day or two I went out after heavy rain
purposely to see if the plants had suffered. I never found them
lying flat.
During the week-end preceding Mr Irving's most recent sitting,
on January 18, 1938, I was examining the material for this paper,
and I carefully considered the impression concerning my wanting
nails. I considered its evidential value, from (a) the frequency of
the references to nails in the entire collection, and (6) the frequency
of my need for nails. As to (a), I found two previous references to
nails (they are both in the eliminated eases and were unrecognised).
As to (6), I thought :
" When have I wanted nails before, or since?
I never use them. I don't put up shelves, nor make boxes, nor
hammer nails in anything. I never want nails, except now and then
a tintack to hang up a Calendar."
At Mr. Irving's sitting a few days later, Feda said :
" Will you please ask Mrs Isabel if she was sorry, quite recently,
she wasn't a carpenter."
And later in the sitting :
" Dead violets. Ask Mrs Isabel if she's been thinking of some
dead violets lately? Or have there been some dead violets round
her? She says '
Dead ones '. She forgot about that. She ought
not to have brought it in here, but she forgot to mention it."
155] A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena 121
I had considered, the " violet " impression (included in the
Searchers series) at the same time as the one referring to the nails.
They were associated in my mind as the only impressions that
seemed to be precognitive. The percipient indicates that the latter
impression was omitted at some previous point in the sitting. She
had forgotten to mention it
—probably when she referred to my not
being a carpenter.
I suspect that " dead violets " is a dream-like merging of two
cases into one. I had selected an impression concerning deadflowers
for quotation in the vSearchers series, before I noticed that it belonged
to the eliminated group. Both the " violet " and the " dead flowers
"
impressions were associated with Mr Dingwall.
In the autumn of 1932 my preoccupation with M.'s affairs became
more concentrated, as in 1931 she had lost more than half of her
small means and it had become necessary for her and the friend
with whom she lives to do something to increase their income.
This was not possible in the small village in the Cotswolds where
they were living and they took steps to find a more suitable place.
An appropriate reference to their situation, which I will not quote,
was made at Mr Irving's sitting on April 30, 1931, about three months
after M.'s loss of income.
Although they were in touch with house agents in different parts
of the countrv, M. and her friend could hear of nothing suitable and
by the autumn of 1932, when the lease of the cottage was nearing its
termination, they lost their nerve. It seemed as if all the small
properties had been snapped up during the financial depression of
1932.
At a sitting on September 22, 1932, Feda said :
Will you ask Mrs Isabel whether she's been thinking, quite lately,
hke the last day or two, about helping some people to make a move?
" I don't think she was making the move herself," Dora says,
" but 1 do think that she"s been helping some one that she's very
interested in to make one, or to commence making one."
My contemporary note runs :
This is true. A few days before the sitting I began definitely to
take steps to help M. and the friend with whom she lives to find a
suitable place and a suitable house to remove to.
About the middle of November (that is, about eight weeks later)
M. and I bought a small plot of land in a place in Dorset which she
thought would be suitable for her purpose, and we engaged a builder
to put up a small house. The negotiations and arrangements were
in my hands.
H 2
122 Isabel Newton [part
Two months later, at the sitting on January 26, 1933, Feda said :
You ask her if she had a long envelope? She took out from the
envelope what Dora would call a wad, a wad of papers, wad. And
kept unfolding first one and then another. Dora thinks the papers
were not all of one colour, not all white, not all the same size.
And she seemed to be separating them, spreading them out. Look,
Mr Bill! with her hands hke that. (Feda illustrates smoothing
something on a table with her hands wide open, palms underneath.)
As if she wanted to get them flat, she thought. There was some-
thing important that Mrs Isabel had to think out with regard to
figures or numbers, in connection with them.
My contemporary note is :
This is correct. During the evening of January 25 {i.e. the evening
before the sitting) I took from a long envelope a roll of letters and
papers relating to a family business [the building of the house].
I laid each one flat on the table, putting them first in chronological
order, and then selecting those that I should want on the following
day. When Mr Irving read the extract I recognised the reference
but denied that there were any but white papers. When I went
home, however, and looked again at the papers in the envelope, I
found an orange-coloured circular and a yellow one (time tables
of day excursions and bus routes in connection with the business
matter).
The papers were specifications and letters relating to the building
of the house. I was going the next day to Dorset to meet the builder,
who had written a few days previously to ask me for instructions
regarding the roof, whether it was to be tiled or slated.
The impression immediately following the above reflects the
opinion of one or two friends who knew of the house-building
project ; an opinion I probably accepted though repudiating it to
myself.
She's neglecting something, Mrs Isabel is, that has a bearing on
herself . . . she's neglecting her own interests, with regard to some-
body and a place rather a long way off . . . There's a name
beginning with a G connected with this condition. And a second
name that would seem to begin with a C, Dora thinks a hard C.
My annotation seems to reflect some annoyance :
. . . The statement in the notes is too vague to identify definitely.
I do not know to what G refers, nor the rest of the extract.
In the light of dream association I now suggest that the hard C
might refer to the Cotswolds, and the G to Gloucester. Gloucester
was a necessary part of the address of M.'s cottage.
155] A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena 123
Feda : Would you see roofs from this room? Don't think that's
right, Dora. " Well," Dora says, " Mrs Isabel has been thinking
very much about roofs." Dora isn't sure whether you see roofs
from the window of this room, or whether Mrs Isabel has been
mentally visualising roofs in this room [i.e. my sitting room, where
I had spread out the papers taken from the long envelope].
My note is :
For some days and especially the day of the sitting my mind was
occupied with the question of roof materials. Miss Horsell, who
knows the circumstances, can corroborate.
After receiving the builder's letter a few days before the sitting,
asking for instructions in regard to the roof of the new house, I went
to the Building Centre, in New Bond Street, and saw many kinds of
tiles and made enquiries as to their durability and price.
The next reference to M.'s affairs was given three months later, at
a sitting on April 25, 1933. Shortly before this date something had
occurred which made me think that the house project was a mistake,
and I had lost heart for the time being. I was convalescing in a
furnished cottage on the Quantock Hills after a serious illness, and
the greater part of my time was spent in my bedroom there. The
impression showed concern for my condition of mind, and a certain
discrimination in relation to the sense of defeat I was experiencing,
which was rather impressive. I will not read this impression ; I
mention it, as there is an interesting point in connection with it, to
which I will refer later.
In the last week of July 1933, M. and her friend moved into the new
house, which has proved a completely successful venture.
There was no further reference to my preoccupation with this
matter until a year later, when on July 26, 1934, an indirect reference
was made to the financial side of it, which I will not quote.
The final reference was given on January 24, 1935, when Feda said :
Is this a joke? I think it must be, it doesn't sound right. " We
can't put our hands in a lucky bag and draw out the right number."
Oh! it's an answer to a question. I think I got it right, Mr Bill.
It's an answer to a question. " We can't put our hands in a lucky
bag and pick out the right number." It sounds awful mixed up.
She says, " I want it just in those words. In other words, we do
not help people in games of chance, or anything of that kind . . .
It's one for Mrs Isabel.
My contemporary note is as follows :
Still owing money on M.'s house . . . and having a cousin who
won about £50 by correctly solving a cross-word puzzle in a com-
124 Isabel Newton [PABT
petition, I have tried to hurry on the payment of my debt by taking
part in the same weekly competition. No skill is required : it is
purely a matter of chance, the clues being simple but presenting
a choice of alternatives, to which there is no clue to the one intended.
It has occurred to me more than once that it would be nice if Dora
and Feda, who say on many occasions that they are helping me,
would guide me to the right choice in the matter of the alternatives.
We have seen that in the Searchers series the thoughts were picked
up in the house, and I have assumed that in the " Isabel " series
they have been picked up in my flat, W'hich Dora and Feda profess
to have visited. The impression expressing concern at my having
lost heart about M.'s affairs was picked up in the cottage on the
Quantock Hills, for I had been living there since the beginning of
April 1933 and the impression was given on April 25, 1933. There
were two other impressions given with it, both of them associated
with the same room, my bedroom. I will quote one of them :
Feda : The fireplace in this room is said to be in an inconvenient
position. The fireplace has been grumbled about. " Great pity
it was there. Ought to be in another position." I feel quite near
the fireplace . . . there's no room to put something that they
want to put in between . . . this is connected with Mrs Isabel, a
room of Mrs Isabel's. I want to say something. You know, Dora's
taken me to Mrs Isabel's before. I don't know if she's changed
anything, but it feels different. When I said that Dora nodded
her head, and she said, " Yes, there's a reason for you feeling hke
that, Feda, though I cannot explain."
In my annotation I say ;
I have never thought that the fireplace in either room in my flat
was in an inconvenient position.
Then, referring to my room in the cottage on the Quantocks, I
say :
The fireplace was so inconveniently placed that it was impossible
to pass between it and the foot of the bed comfortably ; in fact,
the position of the fireplace was a bar to every suggestion my
sister made for a more convenient arrangement of the furniture.
There is an indication in this impression that both Feda and Dora
detected a difference in my environment but could not explain it.
It is difficult to imagine the process by which these impressions,
picked up in a bedroom in a cottage on the Quantock Hills, were
perceived. Neither Mr Irving nor Mrs Leonard knew where I was
at the time.
With the exception of those recorded in this paper and a few
155] A Study of Certain Leonard Phenomena 125
relating to holidays, the impressions contain no allusions to the
varied interests and pleasures which make up the routine of life.
This omission suggests that, for the purposes of the percipient, my
thoughts relating to these every-day matters, no matter how
absorbing they were for me at the time, fell upon stony places,
where they had not much earth, and because they had no root they
withered away. But some of the thoughts which related to holidays
apparently fell upon good ground, for there are no less than ten
such impressions. And holidays do mean, for me, an idea which
goes deep into the mental soil. They are not merely transient
periods of change. They are an escape from a feeling which I could
compare to that of a donkey tethered to one patch on a wide
common ; and I know the strength of this feeling to be rooted in a
complex that goes far back into my early years.
I have by no means exhausted the analogies between dream forma-
tion and these impressions, but time is running on and before con-
cluding I should like to mention one problem, and the solution of it
that my subconscious mind has suggested. There are, in the
impressions, more references to my dressmaking than to any other
subject. I pondered over this, for it seemed to me that my dress-
making had no real significance for me, although there was a certain
pretence emotion associated with it. I was thinking how I exag-
gerated this pretence emotion for the amusement of my friends.
First, there is the hope and confidence of a perfect creation ; then
the successful achievement of preparation ; then the trying-on and
the realisation of w^hat an object I look! and the throwing of the
thing aside ; and finally the taking of it up and doggedly making
the best of it. While I was reviewing this range of mock emotion
there shpped into my mind, in the way the " direct voice " slips
into Mrs Leonard's trance utterances, the word frustration ".
It was startling, for I had never had an experience of this kind
before. Thinking it over. I concluded that the idea of frustration
must be a Freudian symbol, for to associate it directly with my
dressmaking seemed to be giving the latter too much significance.
I dismissed the matter from my mind.
In the morning when I awoke, I found myself thinking of a day
long ago when I stood on the sea-shore watching the sea come
bounding joyously in, and recede with a hopeless, sighing sound over
the shingle. Again the word " frustration " slipped into my mind,
and in a flash I remembered my experience of the evening before
and understood its meaning. On the occasion long ago when I
watched the sea so joyously bounding in and so sighingly receding
I had identified myself with it, and had quoted to myself the words
126 Isabel Newton [part
of Goethe, to the effect that " happiest they who soonest find the
gulf that lies between their aspirations and their powers ".
I do not know how much reliance one can place on a subconscious
promptmg of tliis kind, but my dressmaking emotions do certainly
seem to me to be, in more ways than one, a kind of parody of the
stormy years of my girlhood. Even the laughter behind them has
its significance. I have mentioned the incident, which is unique in
my experience, as having possibly a bearing on the nature of the
impressions in the Isabel " series.
In this paper I have tried to show that however trivial the
impressions may be, they have a particular significance for me. I
suggest that the selection of ideas, haphazard as it may seem, is in
fact correlated with this and that system of ideas, and still more of
feelings, in my own mind ; and that if the imjoressions were ade-
quately analysed there would be found an underlying unity.
In other words, the impressions may be likened to the leaves
which are seen on the surface of some ponds, apparently floating and
disconnected but in reality connected, each one, with a root, which
with other roots form a unity of underlying vegetation. Some of the
roots throw up many stems ; the M. impressions may serve as an
illustration of an analogy in this respect. Some stems throw out
shoots near the surface ; the associated impressions, of which I have
quoted some examples, may be likened to these. I have said " near
the surface ", for these associations are self-evident to me, and they
are given either consecutively or as part of the series given at any
one sitting, as if the association of ideas is perceived.
Below the surface are the interlacing stems, and the roots from
which they have their common origin. The leaves float separately,
apparently disconnected, upon the surface, clearly visible ; the
stems, lightly silted over with the mud of the pond, are scarcely
seen and soon disappear from sight ; the roots are invisible. The
image may be faulty, but it suggests the feeling that I have when I
come to think over these cases, that details apparently disconnected
and trivial in the " Isabel " series are in fact organically connected
with systems of feeling which have become organised in my own
mind ; and I think I have shown that the groupings in which these
impressions have actually occurred suggest that this idea of con-
nection and structure does not spring from my mind alone.
But the evidence I have put forward rests on my word only, and
therefore any theory it may suggest can have no weight unless it is
coniirmed by independent observation. I have put it forward in the
hope that similar phenomena will be examined, whenever possible,
with a view to testing this tentative hypothesis.
155] Review 127
REVIEW
G. N. M. Tyrrell. Science and Psychical Phenomena. Methuen.
XV + 374 pp.
It is a long time since there has appeared so comprehensive and
well-ordered a survey of psychical research as Mr Tyrrell gives us.
Psychical research, as he points out in his Introduction, is a branch
of psychology which " has thrust out a spear-head into the un-
known between normal psychology, on the one hand, whose business
it is to deal with the mind in relation to the affairs of ordinary life,
and abnormal psychology, on the other, which deals with the mind
in derangement and disease
The book is divided into five parts, the first of which is devoted to
spontaneous extra-sensory perception. In assigning pride of place
to the spontaneous mental phenomena Mr Tyrrell does well. Much
of the best work of the S.P.R. in its earlier days was devoted to
their study, and PJiantasms of the Living and the Report on the
Census of Hallucinations {Proceedings, Vol. X), which were the fruit of
these labours, are still pre-eminent in psychical literature. Fashions
change in psychical research as in everything else, and for several
years past attention has been turned to other lines of enquiry. But
there is no other branch of psychical research which affords a better
training in applying critical standards or better opportunities for
watching supernormal faculties at work. This is because of the great
quantity of separate cases available for study, no two of them exactly
alike but each of them embodying some notable experience of per-
sons who, apart from these unusual and often, to them, unique
experiences, are indistinguishable from the neighbours we meet
every day. Evidence thus derived has certain values of its own, and
although more striking material is to be met, e.g. in the records of the
few great mediums, no survey of supernormal powers would be
adequate which neglected the spontaneous phenomena or left them
in the background.
After a useful discussion of the nature of spontaneous evidence,
and of the problem of chance-coincidence as a possible explanation
of veridical dreams and hallucinations, Mr Tyrrell gives several well-
chosen cases from the S.P.R. Proceedings and Journal of spon-
taneous telepathy, clairvoyance and precognition, concluding this
part of the book with a brief discussion of " psychometry " or
object-reading.
128 Review [PAET
In passing to Part II, which deals with experimental extra-
sensory perception, Mr Tyrrell, were he less modest, might well say
" Quorum jyars magna fui ", for this is a subject to which his own
experiments have largely contributed. Before coming to more recent
developments he gives an interesting historical summary of experi-
ments carried out in different countries. Although Mr Tyrrell's
own work has mainly been of a kind leading to statistical analysis,
he evidently realises the importance of the results obtained by other
types of experiment. From these Mr Tyrrell passes to the recent
experiments in which Dr. Rhine and himself have played a leading
part. It is clear that there are technical difficulties in the way of
statistical experiments in extra-sensory perception which will
require further exploration, so that the conclusions of even so
experienced an investigator as Mr Tyrrell must at present be re-
garded as in a high degree provisional.
In Part III Mr Tyrrell sums up the conclusions of Parts I and II
and discusses the theoretical aspects of extra-sensory perception and
their relation to the problem of normal sense-perception. This
section should be of great help to many students who complain that
in our Proceedings and Journal they find masses of facts and techni-
calities of detail without sufficient indications of co-ordinating
principles.
The rest of the book is devoted to the mediumistic trance, one
chapter being given to the physical phenomena. These are always
a problem to any writer attempting to give a general survey of
psychical research. Their connection with the mental phenomena
is, apart from the accidents of history, extremely slender, and even
inter se they do not cohere to the same degree as the mental pheno-
mena. If it were not that certain problems of evidence are common
to both departments of psychical research, there would be a strong
case for making a clean cut between the two. As things are Mr
Tyrrell was probably wise in giving the physical phenomena a
chapter, but no more, in his book. Separate chapters are given to
Mrs Piper, Mrs Leonard, the evaluation of chance in mediumistic
material, quantitative studies of the kind pursued by Mr Whately
Carington, and book-tests. Mr Tyrrell achieves something of a
tour de force in condensing an instructive account of cross-corre-
spondence within the limits of a chapter.
Then follow chapters on the modus operandi of the trance, and on
trance-personalities, with special reference to Lord Balfour's paper
on Mrs Willett {Proceedings, Vol. XLIII). Particular interest attaches
to the chapter headed " Nature of the Communicators : Antecedent
Probability of Survival ", in which Mr Tyrrell states and criticises
155] Review 129
Prof. Broad's " Compound Theory " as put forward in his The Mind
and its Place in Nature. Mr. Tyrrell argues that neither alone, nor in
conjunction with any hypothesis of telepathy between the Uving,
does this theory explain all the facts, particiilarly those connected
with cross-correspondences : on this point I am in complete agree-
ment with him.
The concluding chapter has some very interesting comments on
the telepathic and survivalist interpretations of ostensibly spirit-
istic material. As to the former Mr Tyrrell writes :
" The real drawback to the telepathic theory is that, in order to
make it work, we have to regard the living mind as something
different from and immensely wider than what we commonly mean
by the term, and we have to endow it with such a range of '
sub-
liminal self ' and with such astonishing extra-sensory powers that
the proposition of its survival takes on a new aspect. Having
granted that the self is unlike the human unit of everyday experience
as the telepathic theory demands, the arguments which hitherto
seemed to make its survival improbable no longer apply, at least
with anything hke the same force. And so we find that the object
which the telepathic theory was designed to fulfil, the object of
providing a '
normal '
explanation, is no longer achieved."
As regards the survivalist theory Mr Tyrrell points out that
psychology, religion and everyday experience all recognise division
within the self, particularly division into what he calls " the domi-
nant I " and " the synthetic or empirical I ", between which " there
is the possibility of disunion and strife without numerical discrete-
ness ". The ' empirical I " is a " specialised product " adapted to
the common life of the world, and " speaking broadly and generally,
most of the anti-survivalist arguments arise from the incongruity of
imagining this special kind of personahty entering into other sur-
roundings ". Mr Tyrrell suggests that the complex is resolved at
death, without necessarily destruction in the process of " the prin-
ciple of the dominant I ", which would then be free to enter into new
and more stable forms of association. Mr Tyrrell's argument would
gain strength from such examples of dissociation as the Beauchamp
and Doris Fischer cases, which he too lightly dismisses, though
admittedly pathological dissociation such as these cases present is
not altogether parallel to the divisions within the normal self, which
he is discussing.
There is much that is attractive in this hypothesis, nor is it lacking
in support from the evidence. But from the point of view of the
student the difficulty remains that even the best " communications
"
ostensibly come, and have all the appearance of coming, from a still
130 Review [PAET 155
unresolved complex with the " empirical I " well in the foreground.
It is doubtless possible to strain off the trivialities typical of the
" empirical I ", and to explain them by unconscious dramatisation
on the part of a mind (the medium's) endowed with extended
faculties of cognition. But the student has to do the work of separa-
tion for himself, with whatever objectivity he can command, and
without any internal indications in the material to guide him, other
than the greater or less degree of seriousness of the different parts.
Possibly the process of resolving the complex is a long one, and
most of the communications recorded have been received before its
completion.
There are points of detail which specialists in some branches of
psychical research might wish to criticise, but in general this book
may be warmly welcomed as a much-needed, well-arranged, up-to-
date survey of our subject.
W. H. Salter
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 156
HENRY SIDGWICK AND PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
By Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D.
Henry Sidgwick, one of the founders and the first President of our
Society, was born on May 31, 1838. His centenary has recently been
celebrated by a memorial lecture at Leeds, in the neighbourhood of
which city he was born, and at Cambridge, where he dwelled and
worked throughout the greater part of his life. iVs the S.P.R. owes
its existence and its present status of at least semi-respectability in
scientific circles very largely to the courage, patience, wisdom, and
generosity of Sidgwick, it is only fitting that the great services he
rendered to it should be recalled at this time to our members. From
the nature of the case, most of Sidgwick's intimate friends and col-
leagues are now dead or advanced in years. The present writer never
knew Sidgwick personally and has had no access to unpublished
sources of information about him. But he happens to have suc-
ceeded him, longo intervallo in every sense of the phrase, both as
President of the S.P.R. and as Knightbridge Professor at Cambridge,
and he finds Sidgwick's attitude both in philosophy and in psychical
research pecuharly admirable and sympathetic. These seemed to
him to be adequate grounds for undertaking to write for the Pro-
ceedings an account of Sidgwick's relations with psychical research
in general and the S.P.R. in particular.
It will be as well to begin with a very brief account of Sidgwick's
life. He was born at Skipton on May 31, 1838, being the third sou
and fourth child of the Rev. William Sidgwick and Mary Crofts.
His paternal grandfather was a cotton-spinner at Skipton, and his
uncles carried on the business. His father was educated at Trinity
College, Cambridge, and entered the Church. He held various cures,
I 131
132 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [PAET
and, at the time when Henry was born, he was headmaster of the
grammar-school at Skipton. He died in 1841, when Henry was three
years old, leaving his wife with a family of young children. After
a.ttending preparatory schools at Bristol and at Blackheath Sidgwick
entered Rugby in 1852. His cousin, E. W. Benson, afterwards Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, was then a young assistant master at Rugby.
In 1853 Sidgwick's mother moved to Rugby and he and Benson
lived with her. His school career was happy and brilliant, and he
made several friendships which lasted throughout life. He entered
Trinity College, Cambridge, in October 1855, where he studied mathe-
matics and classics. He was a respectable mathematician and a
brilliant classic. In 1856 he shared the second Bell Scholarship with
J. M. Wilson, in 1857 he won the Craven Scholarship, and in 1858
he shared the Browne's Prize for Greek and Latin Epigrams with
O. 0. Trevelyan. In 1859 he was thirty-third wrangler in the mathe-
matical tripos and was placed first in the classical tripos. In the
same year he won the First Chancellor's Medal and crowned his
academic career by being elected to a fellowship at Trinity. The
rest of his working life was spent at Cambridge.
During the sixties Sidgwick was engaged in a desperate internal
struggle with the intellectual difficulties which the Christian religion,
as then understood in England, presented to honest and instructed
minds. In the course of these enquiries he gained a thorough
mastery of Hebrew and Arabic, made an elaborate study of theology,
and immersed himself in philosophy. At that time it was a con-
dition of holding a fellowship that the holder should declare himself
to be a " bom, fide member of the Church of England ". This
obligation was not usually taken very seriously, but Sidgwick was
an exceptionally conscientious man. By June 1869 he had come to
the conclusion that he did not fulfil the condition literally enough
to justify him in holding a paid office on these terms. He therefore
resigned his fellowship and assistant tutorship at Trinity. The
college accepted his resignation with deep regret and did what it
could to compensate him by creating a lectureship in Moral Science,
without theological conditions, and appointing him to it. Never-
theless, Sidgwick suffered a considerable loss of income and amenities
for a number of years.
In 1875 Trinity appointed Sidgwick Praelector in Moral and
Pohtical Philosophy, which gave him an increased income and an
assured position. In the same year he became engaged to Eleanor
MUdred Balfour, whom he married in 1876. He and his future wife
had met while working at the two subjects which were destined to
occupy most of their future time and energy, viz., psychical research
156] Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research 133
and the higher education of women at Cambridge. It should be
unnecessary to remind members of the S.P.R. of the magnificent
work which Mrs. Sidgwick did for the Society and for the subject
during her long and active life. Anyone who will take the trouble
to read the memoirs of Mrs Sidgwick by Miss Johnson, Mr Salter,
and Mr Besterman, in Vol. XLIV, and will then refer back to the
numerous and masterly articles which she contributed to previous
volumes, will see that one of Sidgwick's most important services to
psychical research was to encourage his wife to pursue the subject.
By 1880 the movement for the education of women at Cambridge
Tiad progressed so far that a new Hall of Residence at Newnham
had been built, and Sidgwick and Mrs Sidgwick temporarily moved
into it. In the following year Trinity made him an honorary fellow.
He had applied for the Knightbridge Professorship of Moral Philo-
sophy on the death of F. D. Maurice in 1872, but another candidate
had rather unaccountably been chosen. The professorship again
fell vacant in 1883, and this time Sidgwick was elected. He held
the chair until his last illness in the spring of 1900.
Throughout his life Sidgwick had been an active participator in
"various attempts to reform the constitution of his own college and
the university. In 1876 Lord Salisbury set up a statutory com-
mission for Oxford and Cambridge on the lines desired by the Cam-
bridge liberals. The new statutes came into force in 1882, and
Sidgwick was much occupied during the next ten years in the delicate
work of initiating and trying to carry through certain financial and
educational changes which they had made possible and which he
thought desirable.
In 1892 Mrs Sidgwick accepted the Principalship of Newnham
•College on the death of Miss Clough. The building at Newnham
which she was to occupy was completed at the end of 1893, and the
Sidgwicks then gave up their house in Cambridge and moved into
I^ewnham College, where Sidgwick spent the last seven years of his
life. Early in 1900 he underwent a serious operation, from which he
never recovered. He died on August 28, 1900, at the house of his
brother-in-law, Lord Rayleigh, at Terling in Essex. He is buried
in the churchyard of Terling.
During the period which has been covered in this sketch of Sidg-
wick's life he was busily engaged in his academic work in philosophy,
political theory, and economics. The most important works which
he published in his lifetime were The Methods of Ethics, Outlines of
the History of Ethics for English Readers, The Principles of Political
Economy, and The Elements of Politics. After his death four sub-
stantial books were made out of his lectures, viz., Philosophy, its
I 2
134 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [PABT
Scope and Relations, The Development of European Polity, Lectures
on the Ethics of Green, Spencer, and Martineau, and Lectures on the
Philosophy of Kant. He wrote numerous articles on literary, educa-
cational, and other subjects, and a collection of these has been
published under the title of Miscellaneous Essays and Addresses.
The reader is now in possession of the main facts about Sidgwick's
work in other fields than that of psychical research. Let us now
consider the history of his activities in the latter field. His interest
in ostensibly supernormal phenomena goes back to the beginnings
of his undergraduate days. When he went up to Cambridge a society
called the " Ghost Society " already existed there. One of the
founders of this had l)een his cousin, E. W. Benson. Westcott was
secretary of it until 1860, when he left Cambridge for Harrow.
Sidgwick joined the Ghost Society while he was still an under-
graduate.
It is plain from his letters that he was collecting stories of super-
normal phenomena in the late fifties and early sixties. In a letter
to his sister of October 30, 1859, he refers to a ghost-story sent him
by his mother, and to others which he had had from an Irish friend.
In another letter, later in the same term, he mentions a newspaper
cutting, sent to him by his Uncle Eobert, narrating a dream of her
son's death which a poor woman had on the night of the wreck of
the " Royal Charter ". He makes the characteristically cautious
comment " It was curious, but, considering how fruitful of dreams-
such a night must be, not very strong evidence "'.
In a letter to his
mother in July 1860 he thanks her for a ghost-story and says that he
has had two very remarkable ones at first hand from a clergyman.
" Mind you shut up everybody who says that such stories can only
be got from '
cousin's cousin's friends '
or such like distant parties
""
is the admonition which he gives to his mother at the end of the
letter.
In 1860, whilst staying in London with his friend Cowell, he had
his first experience of a sitting with a professional medium for
physical phenomena. In a letter to his sister he describes the
medium as " a complete humbug ". In 1864 he and Cowell had
sittings together for automatic writing. Cowell produced the writing-
and they were both puzzled by hearing unexplained raps, but they
agreed that there was nothing in the contents of the scripts that
could not have come from their own minds. Many years afterwards,
Sidgwick gave an account of these sittings to F. W. H. Myers, which
is printed in Myers's article on " Automatic Writing " in Vol. Ill
of the Proceedings. Two points of interest emerged. One was the
ingenuity which the unconscious part of Cowell's mind displayed in
156] Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research 135
puzzling the conscious part of it. The other was the elaborate stories
which would be developed in the automatic script to account for
the failures of the ostensible communicator to pass the tests which
Cowell and Sidgwick had devised in order to examine his claims to
be an independent entity.
The first period of Sidgwick's investigations into Spiritualism
extends roughly from 1865 to 1875. In 1863 he writes to his friend
Dakyns " I have not yet investigated Spiritualism, but I am still
bent on doing so as soon as I get an opportunity ". He also mentions
that T. H. Green " sniffed at " it, as one might perhaps have ex-
pected. In writing to his mother early in 1864, in reference to a
book which she had recommended to him, he says " I am pretty
well read in pneumatological literature, but I have not heard of the
book that you mention ". Later in the year he writes to Dakyns
saying " As to Spiritualism I have not progressed, but am in painful
doubt. Still, I have some personal experiences and much testimony,
and I find it hard to believe that I shall not discover some unknown
laws, psychological or other. ..." Writing to Roden Noel in
December 1866, he makes some interesting comments on the effects
which his recent reading of Lecky's History of Rationalism has had
on him. The book had set him to consider the evidence for mediaeval
miracles, a topic which Lecky explicitly ignored. Sidgwick was con-
siderably impressed by this evidence, and he writes to Noel as
follows. " I dimly foresee that I shall have to entirely alter my
whole view of the universe and admit the '
miraculous '
... as a
permanent element in human history and experience. ..." He sug-
gests that these reflexions link up with his interest in Spiritualism,
and that together they may throw a light on the origin of all religions.
In the summer of 1867 Sidgwick was staying in London and he
had many experiences of spiritualistic phenomena. Some of them
were impressive, but he could never get absolutely satisfactory
evidential conditions. During this period he happened to meet
Mazzini at a dinner party, and he was greatly interested by a story
of a collective hallucination, due to mass-suggestion, which Mazzini
related to him from his own experience. The case is described in a
footnote to Chapter XVIII of Phantasms of the Living (p. 477 of the
abridged edition). It seems to be worth quoting. In or near some
Italian town Mazzini saw a group of people standing gazing upwards
into the sky. He went up to one of them and asked him what he
was gazing at. The cross—do you not see it"?
" said the man,
pointing to the place where the cross was supposed to be. Mazzini
could see nothing in the least cruciform in the sky ;
but, on enquiring
of others, he found that they also thought they were seeing a cross.
136 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [PABT
At length Mazzini happened to notice one gazer who looked rather
more intelligent than the rest, and also seemed to have a faint air of
doubt and perplexity. Mazzini went up to him and asked him what
he was looking at. " The cross/" he said, " there." Mazzini took
hold of his arm, gave him a slight shake, and said to him " There
is not any cross at all ". A change came over the gazer's face as if
he were waking from a kind of dream, and he answered " No, as
you say, there is no cross at all '".
He then walked away with Mazzini,
leaving the rest of the crowd to enjoy their collective hallucination.
Sidgwick always remained greatly impressed with the importance
of this story in relation to the evidence for the ostensibly super-
normal physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
From 1869 onwards Sidgwick began to be associated with Myers
in a common interest in psychical research. In the very eloquent
and moving memoir of Sidgwick which Myers contributed to Vol. XV
of the Proceedings he states that it was during a star-light walk in
Cambridge on December 3, 1869. that he broached the subject to
Sidgwick and determined, if possible, henceforth to pursue the elusive
quarry with the latter as his guide. Myers had read classics with
Sidgwick as his private tutor when he came up to Trinity as an
undergraduate in 1860. The occasion of the visit to Cambridge in
Deceml^er 1869, from which he dates the beginning of their co-
operation as psychical researchers, was the fact that Myers was
then examining for the Moral Science Tripos. The first mention
of such co-operation in Sidgwick"s published letters is in a letter to
Myers dated October 30, 1873. The following passage is so char-
acteristic as to be well worth quoting. " As for spirit-rapping I am
in exactly the same mind towards it as towards religion. I believe
there is something in it. don't know what, have tried hard to dis-
cover, and find that I always paralyse the phenomena. My taste
is strongly affected by the obvious humbug mixed with it, which
at the same time my reason does not overestimate."
In 1871 Sir William Crookes had published, in the Quarterly
Journal of Science and elsewhere, an account of his experimental
researches in the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. He wrote
further articles about it in 1874 and in the same year Alfred Russel
Wallace had published in the Fortnightly Review a paper entitled
" A Defence of Modern Spiritualism ". Sidgwick, writing to his
mother on July 11. 1874, said " No one should pronounce on the
prima facie case for serious investigation—this is really all that I
maintain on behalf of Spiritualism—who has not read Crookes's
Researches Sidgwick and Myers now started to investigate to-
gether, and they formed a small association for the purpose, which.
156] Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research 137
was a kind of forerunner of the S.P.R. Edmund Gurney, who was
to become one of the most active and important workers in the
S.P.R., was at first hesitant at joining and contented himself with
giving his warmest sympathy to this association. However, A. J.
Balfour and Lord Rayleigh both joined, and experiments were con-
ducted in their homes. It was in the course of these experiments
that Sidgwick met the sister of A. J. Balfour, whom he afterwards
married.
These experiments were subsequently described by Mrs Sidgwick
in an excellent article in Vol. IV of the S.P.R. Proceedings entitled
" The Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism ". The mediums con-
cerned in 1874 were Miss Showers, Mrs Jencken {nee Kate Fox), and
Miss Eva Fay. In the first three months of 1875 Sidgwick, Myers,
and Gurney had sittings for materiahsation at Newcastle with Miss
Wood and Miss Fairlamb, and they had another series of sittings
with the same mediums in London later in the year. Mrs Sidgwick
was not 23resent at these, but she was present at a further series held
in London in July and in Cambridge during August and September.
These two mediums quarrelled and separated some time during the
year 1876, and the filial sittings, which the Sidgwicks held at New-
castle in January 1877, had to be conducted with Miss Wood and
Miss Fairlamb separately. In 1874, and again in 1876, Sidgwick
had a series of sittings with a medium called Williams. Sidgwick
and Mrs Sidgwick had some sittings in the summer of 1876 with a
young and palpably fraudulent Mr Bullock, who, as Mrs Sidgwick
dryly remarks, " may have acted wisely in his own interests when
he gave up the career of medium and took to that of exposer of
SpirituaUsm, as he did six or seven months later ". In the same
year the celebrated Dr. Slade came to London. It was reported that
his control by four-dimensional spirits had enabled him to tie knots
in a bit of string whose ends had been sealed together by the German
psychologist Fechner. He also speciaUsed in causing writing to
appear inside a locked double slate in answer to questions put by
sitters. The Sidgwicks had ten sittings with him for slate-writing.
Mrs Sidgwick also had three sittings with Egiinton, another famous
slate-writing medium of the period.
The results of all this work with paid professional medimns for
physical phenomena may be fairly summarised as follows. Many
of the sittings were complete blanks. In some fraud was actually
detected and in some there were circumstances which made it almost
certain that fraud had been practised. In the very few cases where
it looked as if a positive supernormal effect had been obtained there
was always some unfortunate breakdown in some part of the control,
I 3
138 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
or some diversion of the sitters' attention by external interruption,
which made it possible to account for the phenomenon by normal
causes. The course of Sidgwick's disillusionment and disgust may
be traced in his letters during this period. Writing to Myers at the
end of 1874 he remarks that he has had to drop Mrs Jencken and
will now have to drop Miss Fay out of his " case for Spiritualism ".
He adds the following remarks. " What induces me, not to abandon,
but to restrict, my spiritualistic investigations is not their disagree-
ableness (they have never been other than disagreeable so far as
paid mediums are concerned) but their persistent and singular frus-
tration." The subsequent experiences of the S.P.R. with physical
mediums have emphasised the " persistence " and diminished the
" singularity " of such frustration.
In the autumn of 1876 Professor Ray Lankester instituted criminal
proceedings against Dr Slade, whom he claimed to have detected
in fraud. Sidgwick expected, though he did not desire, to be sub-
poenaed by Ray Lankester's lawyers. Writing on this matter to
Dakyns on October 10, 1876, Sidgwick says that, so far as his own
experience goes, he would unhesitatingly pronounce against Slade.
But he admits that there is testimony /'or him which he would like
to see examined in a court of law.
This whole period of Sidgwick's dealings with psychical research
is well summed up in the following passage from a letter which he
wrote to Roden Noel on June 24, 1878. " I have not quite given
up Spirituahsm, but my investigation of it is a very dreary and
disappointing chapter in my life."
We come now to the revival of Sidgwick's interest which led to
his consenting to take an active part in founding and guiding the
S.P.R. This was due to the apparent success of certain experiments
in thought-transference which Professor William Barrett had been
carrying out at Dublin. At Barrett's instigation a conference was
convened, and it met on January 6, 1882. At this conference the
S.P.R. was planned. It was to include persons of all shades of
opinion, from sceptical scientists who were reasonable enough to
admit that there was a prima facie case for investigation to con-
vinced Spiritualists who were reasonable enough to admit that there
was a great deal of fraud and imposture and self-deception to be
eliminated. Barrett represented the scientific wing and Stainton
Moses the spiritualistic wing. Myers tells us that he and Gurney,
whilst heartily approving the general scheme, consented to join if,
and only if, Sidgwick would do so and would consent to be President.
They encouraged him to undertake this task, but it was only after
considerable hesitation that he accepted. There were strong and
156] Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research 139
respectable motives against doing do. Why should he spend more
of his time and energy, both of which were very fully occupied in
work immediately beneficial to his fellow-men, in order, as Myers
puts it,
" to get the moon for a child who had not even cried for
it "? Orthodox believers did not want their special revelation to
be shown to be part of a wider system ; and orthodox scientists
treated the whole matter at best with compassion and at worst with
contempt. On the other hand, Sidgwick had never considered that
the original question, which he had spent so much time and trouble
in investigating with so little result, had been answered in the
negative by his abortive researches in the mediumistic underworld.
There had never been any moment at which he had felt that he had
the right to abandon further investigation of the subject. And he
had certain positive motives, connected with his religious, ethical,
and philosophical perplexities, for wishing the question at issue to
be settled definitely in one direction or the other. To these motives
we shall return at a later stage.
At present it will sufiice to say that eventually Sidgwick con-
sented to join the S.P.R. and to be its first President. His entry
carried with it the adhesion to the Society of several others who
were destined to play a most important part in its fife and work.
It brought in Mrs Sidgwick, her brothers Arthiir and Gerald Balfour,
and her brother-in-law. Lord Rayleigh, and, as we have already seen,
it was the condition without which the Society would have lacked
the inestimable services of Edmund Gurney and Frederic Myers.
Moreover, the fact that Sidgwick, whose reputation for sanity, truth-
fulness, and fairness was well known to everyone who mattered in
England, was at the head of the Society gave it an intellectual and
moral status which was invaluable at the time. It was hardly
possible to maintain, without writing oneself down as an ass, that
a society over which Sidgwick presided and in whose work he was
actively interested consisted of knaves and fools concealing super-
stition under the cloak of scientific verbiage. Needless to say, this
feat was not found to exceed the capacity of some critics ;
but, with
almost anyone else as President, their numbers would have been far
greater and their influence might have sufficed to kill the Society
in its infancy.
Sidgwick gave his inaugural address to the S.P.R. on July 17,
1882. He dehvered a second presidential address on December 9
of the same year, and a third on July 18, 1883. These will be found
in Vol. I of the Proceedings. Vol. II contains another presidential
address delivered on May 28, 1884. He resigned the Presidentship
in 1885, thinking that the Society could now profit from a change,
140 Professor G. D. Broad, Litt.D. [PAET
but at the same time lie undertook the editorship of the Journal.
His successor in the presidential chair was Balfour Stewart.
During the year 1884 the S.P.R. appointed a committee to take
evidence in London from leading members of the Theosophical
Society about the marvellous phenomena alleged to have taken place
in India in connexion with Madame Blavatsky and certain other
members of her sect. Madame Blavatsky, Colonel Olcott, and a
Brahmin disciple called Mohini spent some months in London and
gave evidence to this committee. Sidgwick as President was ex
officio a member. The Theosophical contingent visited Cambridge
early in August, attended a meeting in Oscar Browning's rooms in
King's, and were entertained to luncheon by Myers. The Sidgwicks
rather liked Madame Blavatsky, who was evidently an engaging old
humbug with a rich and racy personality and full of courage and
resource. They found her, it is true, externally unattractive and
not prepossessing in manner ; and indeed her habit of smoking
incessant cigarettes and indulging in relatively strong language,
though it would pass unnoticed in our more enlightened age, could
hardly fail to attract unfavourable attention in a Cambridge drawing-
room of the eighteen-eighties. Sidgwick says of her in his diary for
August 10. "If she is a humbug, she is a consummate one ; as her
remarks have the air not only of spontaneity and randomness but
of an amusing indiscretion." (She had referred to a certain Mahatma,
a class of beings for whom the Theosophists entertained the highest
reverence, as " the most utter dried-up old mummy " that she ever
saw.)
The Theosophical sub-committee issued a balanced interim report
which was privately printed and circulated to members of the S.P.R.
At the end of it they announced that Richard Hodgson was on his
way to India to investigate and report at first hand. Hodgson com-
pleted his task and returned to England in April 1885. His evidence
as to the fraudulent character of the Theosophical marvels was
damning ;
though one could have wished that he had not had to
rely so much on the revelations of two discharged employees of
Madame Blavatsky who had quarrelled with her and were busily
engaged in biting the hand which had not ungenerously fed them.
The final report, embodying Hodgson's findings, was written mainly
by Mrs Sidgwick. It occupies a considerable part of Vol. Ill of the
Proceedings and is easily the most dramatic and entertaining bit of
work that the Society has ever published.
During the latter part of 1884 Mrs Sidgwick was working at the
important paper on " Phantasms of the Dead ", which she read on
January 30, 1885. It is published in Vol. Ill of the Proceedings.
156] Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research 141
In preparation for it Sidgwick investigated critically the numerous
ghost-stories that had been sent to the S.P.R., and in September
1884 he made a tour to interview persons who had contributed such
stories. He says that the evidence is not so good as for phantasms
of the Uving, and that out of about three hundred cases not more
than twenty or thirty can be pronounced good. After returning
from his tour of interviewing he remarks " The stories that become
worse after oral examination are those that we had already judged
to be objectionable, and some are decidedly improved by the exami-
nation ". His comment after Mrs Sidgwick had read her paper was
" It looks as if there was some cause for persons experiencing inde-
pendently in certain houses similar hallucinations. But we are not
at present inclined to back ghosts against the field as the cause."
In the meanwhile Myers, Gurney, and Podmore were busily engaged
in comminuting and refining those masses of crude ore from which
the two volumes of Phantasms of the Living were eventually smelted.
This is undoubtedly an epoch-making work, in the strict sense that
it laid the foundations of a new subject and still remains a classic
indispensable to all students in its own field. Both Sidgwick and
his wife were, of course, in constant touch with the authors at all
stages of their work.
In June 1885 Myers read his introduction to Phantasms of the
Living as a paper to the S.P.R. Sidgwick's comments in his diary
are of great interest. " In the end ", he says, " if the S.P.R. 's work
should all be negative, it will be regarded by sceptics as the last
element of proof necessary to complete the case against Christianity
and other historical religions. But/or a long time the only difference
would be that those religions will have to support their miracles
instead of being supported by them. They can go on doing this for
a long time until sociology, has been really constructed and the
scientist steps into the place of the priest." The same thought is
expressed in the following sentence of Myers's Obituary Notice
on Sidgwick. " It would be hard for future men to persuade them-
selves that what in ages of knowledge and clarity was seen to be
fraud and illusion had yet been verity and revelation in the confused
obscurity of the past." Neither Sidgwick nor Myers could foresee
that in another fifty years compulsory education would have pro-
duced throughout the civilised world a populace of Hterate imbeciles,
ready to believe or to disbelieve anything with equal passion and
unreason, and that science would have provided, in the cheap press
and the wireless, an immensely powerful engine for generating irra-
tional behefs and disbehefs at will. Before taking leave of this topic
we may recall the remark in which Gibbon contrived to twit both
142 Professor C. D. Broad, Lift.D. [part
the Jews and the Christians. Referring to the rejection, by the Jews
of apostolic times, of those stupendous miracles which, according to
the Christians, were happening under their very noses. Gibbon
remarks :
" Contrary to every known principle of the human mind,
that singxilar people seem to have attached a more explicit credence
to the testimony of their remote ancestors than to the evidence of
their own senses ".
Sidgwick's central position, and his oscillations about it, during
this period are well brought out by the following quotations from
his diary. On January 3, 1886, after a meeting of the S.P.R., which
now had 600 members and associates and could, in his opinion,
" run without further nursing ", he wrote as follows :
" I do not
doubt that thought-transference is genuine, and I hope that it will
soon be established beyond cavil ; but I see no prospect of making
any way in the far more interesting investigation of Spiritualism."
On March 7 of the same year, after listening to a mildly spiritualistic
paper by Sir William Barrett, he wrote " I feel that the natural
drift of my mind is now towards total incredulity in respect of
extra-human intelligences. I have to remind myself forcibly of the
arguments on the other side, just as a year ago I had to dwell
deliberately on the sceptical argument to keep myself balanced."
On January 28, 1887, he wrote " I am drifting steadily to the con-
clusion that we have not and are not likely to have empirical
evidence of the existence of the individual after death ". On July 16,
1888, after giving an address to the S.P.R. in which he pleaded for
the collection of further cases of spontaneous telepathic action, he
wrote " I have not much hope of our getting at positive results
in any other department of our enquiry, but I am not yet hopeless
of establishing telepathy ".
Even about telepathy, which he regarded as established to his
own satisfaction, he was subject to the set-backs and disappoint-
ments which are the lot of the psychical researcher. In his diary
for November 29, 1884, he writes " I am shaken in my view of the
telepathic evidence by the breakdown of Sir E. H.'s narrative in
the Nineteenth Century. He tells an elaborate story of what hap-
pened to him less than ten years ago. His wife, who was an actor
in it, confirms it. Her mother bears witness that the wife told her
next morning. Yet the story is inaccurate in fundamental details
—
it is difficult to understand how any of it can be true." Lastly, there
was a sad disappointment in his experiments with Miss Relph at
Liverpool. Sidgwick investigated her claims to telepathic powers
in March 1887. On the 30th the results were so good that he was
able to say " they leave no doubt in my own mind that I had wit-
156] Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research 143
nessed the real phenomena ". On March 31 the attempts to repeat
the results under unexceptionable " conditions " were a complete
failure. Sidgwick stUl accepted the former results, but reaUsed that
they were not enough to convince an outsider.
On June 25, 1888, there befell one of the great tragedies of psychical
research, viz., the sudden death, at a comparatively early age, of
Edmund Gurney through an overdose of chloroform taken for
neuralgia or insomnia. It was a terrible blow to the Sidgwicks
personally, and it wiU be evident to anyone who has studied Phan-
tasms of the Living or read the admirable articles which Gurney con-
tributed to the early volumes of the Proceedings that his death was
an irreparable loss to the Society and to the subject. Sidgwick had
now become President of the S.P.R. for a second period after a con-
siderable interval, and he delivered his presidential address on July
16, 1888, three weeks after Gurney's death. This brings us by a
natural transition to the next important piece of work with which
the Sidgwicks were closely concerned, viz., the S.P.R.'s Census of
Hallucinations.
Everyone is familiar with stories of the following kind. A has
an hallucinatory visual, auditory, or tactual perception in which he
seems to himself to be seeing or hearing or touching a certain friend
or acquaintance B. Afterwards, A learns that B was dpng or in
serious danger at the time when the hallucination was experienced.
The S.P.R. was naturally inundated with stories of this kind and
its first business was, of course, to weed out all the cases which might
reasonably be explained l)y misreporting, exaggeration, errors of
memory, normal expectation and inference, and so on. When this
had been done there remained a substantial residue of such stories
which appeared incapable of any normal explanation. As regards
this residue only two alternatives were open. Either the approxi-
mate simultaneity between the hallucination in A and the death or
illness or accident in B was a mere coincidence, or there was some
supernormal causal connexion between the two. It had been quite
evident to Gurney that no rational decision between these two
alternatives was possible except on a statistical basis. It was
essential to know how frequently such hallucinatory experiences
occur among sane waking persons in contemporary civilised societies.
The more frequent they are, the more likely it is that some of them
will happen to coincide with the death or danger of the person whom
they concern. Now this was a subject on which no reliable statistics
existed at the time. In Phantasms of the Living he had attempted
an estimate of the frequency of such hallucinations among contem-
porary Englishmen from the data at his disposal. He had come to
144 Professor G. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
the conclusion that, whilst they are much commoner than one would
have been inclined to believe, they are not nearly common enough
to make it reasonable to regard those which turn out to be veridical
as mere chance coincidences. But he was well aware that the
question could never be satisfactorily settled until a direct statistical
enquiry on a very large scale had been made in order to determine
the frequency of such experiences, veridical and delusive, among
the population.
Sidgwick was most anxious that such an enquiry should be carried
out, both because of its extreme scientific importance and because
it would round off the work of his dead friend and colleague. Accord-
ingly he induced the S.P.R. to appoint a committee, consisting of
himself, Mrs Sidgwick, Myers, Podmore, and Miss Alice Johnson, in
order to undertake a census by means of a questionnaire. The col-
lection of statistics went on steadily between the spring of 1889 and
that of 1894. It entailed an immense amount of very tedious work.
Sidgwick introduced the subject to the Society in a special address
on July 8, 1889, in which he explained the importance of the census,
asked for volunteer collectors, and pointed out the precautions which
ought to be taken. He gave a second address on the subject on
July 11, 1890, in which he reports the progress already made, urges
the members of the Society to fresh efforts, and comments on certain
types of hallucination which have been reported. In the summer
of 1889 the Sidgwicks attended an international congress of psychol-
ogists at Paris. Owing to the presence of Richet, whom Sidgwick
had first met in October 1885 and had greatly liked, there was much
discussion on psychical research. The congress gave its sanction to
a census of hallucinations on the same lines as that conducted in
England by the S.P.R.
The S.P.R. committee published its final report in Vol. X of the
Proceedings. It occupies about 400 pages and is a most masterly
production. It was written mainly by Mrs Sidgwick and Miss
Johnson, in close consultation with Sidgwick himself. The upshot
of the enquiry was as follows. About one visual hallucination in
sixty-three occurs within a period of twenty-four hours round about
the death of the person whose apparition has been " seen ". If such
death-coincidences were purely fortuitous concurrences of causally
independent events the proportion would be about one in nineteen
thousand. There is a most elaborate and careful discussion of the
fallacies to which such statistics are liable, and a very clear and
detailed statement of the precautions which the committee took to
avoid them. Anyone who now argues airily on this subject without
having studied this report is merely wasting his own and his hearer's
166] Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research 145
time. Yet I venture to doubt whether so much as one per cent, of
the teachers and students of experimental psychology in this country
have ever troubled to flutter the pages of what is, on any view, a
unique and meticulously careful contribution to an important branch
of their subject.
From the spring of 1885 onwards the Sidgwicks had from time to
time taken part in experiments on thought-transference in connexion
with hypnotised subjects. Sidgwick records visits to Brighton for
this purpose on March 22 and July 4, 1885. On January 10, 1887,
he mentions the abortive conclusion of a week's investigation of a
professional mesmerist, Mr D., who pretended to transmit ideas to
his mesmeric " subject ". In spite of the fact that Mr D. had been
a French master in a school and had a brother who was a Cambridge
graduate and a clerk in Holy Orders, he was detected by Richard
Hodgson using a code which depended on the variations in the
subject's breathing. A much more important series of hypnotic
experiments was carried out in the summer of 1889 with Mr G. A.
Smith as hypnotist and telepathic agent, and two young clerks,
whom he mesmerised, as telepathic percipients. The results of these
experiments formed the subject of an article in Vol. VI of the
S.P.R.'s Proceedings. The successes were altogether beyond chance,
and in view of the precautions taken it is difficult to think of any
normal explanation for them. Further experiments with the same
hypnotist and the same subjects were carried out by Mrs Sidgwick
and Miss Alice Johnson in the years 1890, 1891, and 1892. The
report of them will be found in Vol. VIII of the Proceedings. The
results are, in some respects, more remarkable, since successes well
above chance were scored with Smith and his subjects in different
rooms.
A sequel to these hypnotic experiments was the occasion for
Sidgwick's last contribution to the Proceedings. Two Danish psychol-
ogists, Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen of Copenhagen, published in
Wundt's PJiilosophische Studien a long paper describing their experi-
ments on what they called " involuntary whispering ". Now most
of the work on transference of ideas which Sidgwick and his wife
had done with Mr Smith and his subjects was concerned with guess-
ing two-digit numbers printed on discs which Smith drew from a
bag and concentrated his attention upon. On the basis of the
Copenhagen experiments Messrs Lehmann and Hansen claimed to
show that the degree of success scored by Smith's hypnotised sub-
jects could be explained by supposing that Smith involuntarily
whispered the numbers as he concentrated his attention upon them,
and that his subjects were in a state of auditory hyperaesthesia.
146 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
As a matter of fact the Sidgwicks had carefully considered this
possibility and had discussed it elaborately in their first report in
Vol. VI of the Proceedings. Moreover, in the second series of experi-
ments, reported in Vol. VIII, a significant degree of success had
been scored when Smith was out of the room and on a different
floor from that occupied by the percipients. Nevertheless, Sidgwick
thought that Messrs Lehmann and Hansen's suggestions were im-
portant enough to merit serious attention, since they certainly threw
fresh light on the hypothesis of unconscious whispering.
He began by repeating the experiments, in a somewhat simplified
form, with his wife and Miss Johnson. They found that in all cases
the whispering was completely voluntary, and they detected in them-
selves no trace of that tendency to involuntary whispering which the
Danish psychologists had alleged to be the natural accompaniment
of attempts to concentrate on a number. But they verified the
Copenhagen claims to the following extent. They found that it was
quite possible for a person deliberately to whisper in such a way that
an observer who fixed his attention on that person's mouth and lips
could neither see nor hear any signs of whispering at a distance of
two feet. And yet, at a distance of eighteen inches between this
person's mouth and a percipient's ear, the percipient could hear
enough of the agent's whispering to score a considerable amount of
success in his guesses. It is therefore reasonable to assume that,
if the hypnotic agent whispered in this special way, a hypnotised
subject, in special rafport with him, might hear distinctly at a con-
siderably greater distance without any sign of whispering being
audible or visible to third parties. Sidgwick noted that if an
observer directed his attention to the ncch and throa t of the whisperer,
instead of his mouth and lips, the fact that whispering was taking
place became obvious. Accordingly he undertook some further
experiments with Smith, concentrating his attention on the latter's
neck and throat without telling Smith that he was doing so. He
used as percipient Mrs Verrall, who had practised detecting whisper-
ing with Mrs Sidgwick and Miss Johnson. The result was com-
pletely negative. Sidgwick could see no special movements in
Smith's neck and throat, and Mrs Verrall could hear no whispers
coming from Smith.
Sidgwick published these results in an important note on " Involun-
tary Whispering
'
' which he contributed to Vol. XII of the Proceedings.
After stating his experimental conclusions, he undertook an elaborate
statistical analysis of the mistakes which had been made in guessing
numbers in the hypnotic experiments and in Messrs Lehmann and
Hansen's researches. He claimed to show that the distribution of
156] Henry Sidgivick and Psychical Research 147
mistakes among the Copenhagen guesses closely resembled the dis-
tribution of mistakes among the guesses made by the English hypno-
tised subjects on their unsuccessful days, when their scores were
plainly due to chance. He ascribed this similarity to a likeness in
number-habits between the English and the Danish subjects. Whilst
I accept Sidgwick's conclusion that it is most unlikely that the
success of the hypnotic experiments can be explained by involuntary
whispering, I am not altogether satisfied with his statistical argu-
ment and I should like to see the whole subject treated again by
modern statistical methods which have become available since
Sidgwick's day.
The rest of Sidgwick's activities in connexion with psychical re-
search can be very briefly described. They were concerned with
the physical medium, Eusapia Palladino, and the mental medium,
Mrs Piper. In the summer of 1894 Myers and Sir Oliver Lodge, in
company with Richet, were investigating Eusapia at lie Roubaud.
They wrote to Sidgwick stating that they thought they had got
physical phenomena under test conditions. He and Mrs Sidgwick
therefore went out to France. The phenomena, as usual in their
presence, became less striking, but at the time he was almost con-
vinced that some of them were genuinely supernormal. In August
1895 Eusapia stayed at Myers's house in Cambridge and was sub-
jected to an elaborate investigation. The Sidgwicks concluded that
her phenomena were fraudulent, and that they were produced by a
certain trick which was suspected at an early stage and was worked
out in detail by Hodgson. It is significant that Eusapia steadily
refused to comply with conditions which would have excluded the
use of this method.
The discovery of Mrs Piper in Boston by Professor William James
was the beginning of an important new stage in the development
of psychical research and the work of the Society. Her mediumship
has been of the utmost importance because it gave results which
are quite certainly supernormal and which seem, jmma facie, to be
very difficult to explain without going beyond telepathy from the
living. It is roughly true to say that Sidgwick's death happened at
a transition point in the history of the subject. In the past were
the comparatively straightforward problems of the experimental and
statistical establishment of the transference of simple concrete ideas
and emotions. In the future lay the subtle and complex problems
of cross-correspondences, book-tests, and so on, in which we are still
immersed. Mrs Piper's mediumship is the connecting link between
the two stages, and Sidgwick lived only long enough to participate
in the very early phases of the investigation. Myers and others
148 Professor C. D. Broad, Litf.D. [part
invited Mrs Piper to England in the winter of 1889, and she stayed
until the spring of 1890. Sidgwick took a prominent part in the
investigations. He had no success in his own sittings with her, but
he was much impressed by the experiences of some of his friends.
Subsequent work with Mrs Piper was mainly conducted in the U.S.A.
under the direction of Richard Hodgson.
Mrs Sidgwick survived her husband for many years and main-
tained up to the end her active interest in the Society and her
invaluable work on the subject. We have her own authority for
stating that, in her opinion, the evidence as a whole provides an
adequate ground for believing that human beings survive bodily
death. One would give a great deal to know whether the facts
which became available after 1900 would have caused Sidgwick
himself to accept so positive a conclusion.
Having supplied the reader with a fairly adequate history of
Sidgwick's dealings with psychical research, I will now say some-
thing about the nature and extent of his contributions to the sub-
ject. His own estimate of his capacities is characteristically modest
and accurate. It is recorded in an entry in his diary for September
11, 1884. He thinks that he has a mind much better qualified for
seeing relations in the history of thought than for suggesting hypo-
theses in psychical research. " I don't feel the least gift ", he says,
" for making a legitimate hypothesis as to the causes of the pheno-
mena, and I am too unobservant and unimaginative about physical
events to be at all good at evaluating particular bits of evidence. . . .
To tell whether a '
psychical '
experiment or narrative is good or
not, evidentially, requires one to imagine with adequate accuracy
and exhaustiveness the various possibilities of '
natural ' causation
of the phenomenon, and judge the degree of improbability of each.
Nora is much better at all this than I am. ..." This extremely
high and very just appreciation of Mrs Sidgwick's powers is reiterated
on May 2, 1894, where he says that his only reason for doubting
whether she was right in accepting the Principalship of Newnham
is that he fears " that she may not find time for the work of the
S.P.R.", for which, he says, " I thinlv her uniquely fit—much more
fit than I am ". He thinks that in psychical research the one function
that he can exercise is the judicial. " I feel equal to classifying and
to some extent weighing the evidence, so far as it depends on general
considerations."
Making due allowance for Sidgwick's natural modesty and gener-
osity, I think that this estimate of his powers is essentially correct
so far as it goes. His main contribution to psychical research did
not consist in making ingenious experiments or suggesting fruitful
156] Henry Sidgivich and Psychical Research 149
and far-reaching hypotlieses. It consisted in the weight which his
known intelUgence and integrity gave to the serious study of the
subject, in the tact and patience with which he handled the very
difi&cult team which he had to lead rather than to drive, in the
extremely high standard of evidence which he inculcated both by
example and by precept, in his courage and persistence in face of
repeated failure when success seemed almost within reach, and in
the general maxims which he laid down in his various addresses to
the S.P.R. It will be worth our while to consider in some detail
the teachings of Sidgwick's presidential addresses, for they are still
highly relevant to contemporary conditions.
The first three are concerned with the raison d'etre of the S.P.R.
,
with certain criticisms which had been made on the very idea of
such a society, and with the nature of the evidence which already
exists and the further evidence which is required. When he occupied
the presidential chair for the second period he devoted his first two
addresses to a survey of the work of the S.P.R. since its beginning,
an account of the modification which experience had shown to be
necessary in the original plan of campaign, and an answer to certain
criticisms to which it had been subjected from various quarters.
His third presidential address of this period was explicitly concerned
with the Canons of Evidence in Psychical Research.
According to Sidgwick the fundamental cause of the characteristic
difficulty and controversy which attaches to psychical research is
the fact that we are called upon to weigh one improbability against
another. We have to balance the antecedent improbability of the
events reported against the antecedent improbability that sane and
respectable witnesses should be lying or should be deceived in rele-
vant respects. Now there is no rule for estimating the antecedent
improbabihty of such events as the reported physical phenomena of
mediumship, hauntings, telepathy, clairvoyance, etc. We have no
means of telling what proportion the facts that we know about the
" habits " of matter and of mind bears to the facts of which we are
still ignorant. As regards the reliability of witnesses and their
reports there are some general rules. When normal people, with
no obvious motives for deception, testify to quite ordinary events
we do not raise questions about the probability of their testimony
being false. But in the law courts, if the testimony of two such
persons to a quite ordinary event conflicts, we do raise this question.
For a precisely similar reason we must raise it when a witness, how-
ever intelligent and respectable, testifies to an extraordinary event.
Now it is known that the main sources of error are the following :
(1) alteration and heightening of a story that passes through a chain
150 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
of narrators ; (2) errors of memory even in first-hand reports ; (3)
failure to observe relevant details and tendency to mistake inferences
for observations ; (4) lastly, if another person beside the witness
was present he may have produced an illusion in the witness's mind.
Therefore we have to consider (a) any facts about the observer which
might tend to make him the victim of an illusion, and (b) any facts
about the second person which make it likely that he was able or
willing to produce an illusion in the witness.
In Sidgwick's opinion two important consequences follow. In the
first place, it is plain that in every case the probabilities can be
only vaguely estimated, and in many cases they must be estimated
differently by different people according to their knowledge of beliefs
about the character of the persons concerned. Therefore great and
irreconcilable differences of opinion are inevitable, and it is useless
to bewail them and unreasonable to complain of the slow rate at
which the subject progresses.
Secondly, all talk of " crucial " experiments, " knock-down
"
proofs or disproofs, " completely water-tight " cases, is futile. We
must make each individual experiment and report as " water-tight
"
as we can, and we must go on accumulating more and more such
cases. Neither quality alone nor quantity alone will produce con-
viction ;
nothing will do so except a constant stream of cases in
which the evidence is of the highest quality.
Since this is a matter about which there is still frequent discussion
in our Society, and since Sidgwick seems to me to have said exactly
the right things about it, I propose to state his views in rather more
detail. First, as regards quantity and the need for a constant supply
of fresh cases. In no single case, Sidgwick says, can the admissi-
bility of normal explanations be absolutely excluded. This is im-
possible " even in the case of our own most conclusive experiments,
when regarded from the point of view of the outside public. For
all records of experiments must depend ultimately on the probity
and intelligence of the persons recording them ; and it is impossible
for us or any other investigators to demonstrate to persons who do
not know us that we are not idiotically careless or consciously men-
dacious." It is sometimes alleged that the S.P.R.'s demand for
quantity shows that the quality of the available evidence is poor.
This is not true. The quality of much of it is very good ; it would
be regarded without hesitation as conclusive if the alleged facts were
not antecedently so improbable. The need for accumulating evidence
is in order to swamp the antecedent improbability of the events to
which it bears witness.
There are two other points which may conveniently be treated
156] Henrtj Sidgwick and Psychical Research 151
under this head of quantity. The first is a warning which Sidgwick
gave to the Society soon after the pubhcation of Phantasms of the
Living Many members were inclined then, and I suspect that stili
more are inclined now, to regard the case for spontaneous telepathy
as estabhshed, and to think that it is not worth while to trouble to
collect and investigate fresh alleged instances of it. Sidgwick pointed
out the extreme folly of this tendency to be at ease m Sion Unless
a fairly constant stream of well-attested cases is produced sceptics
will certainly argue as follows :
" On the basis of the statistics which
you pubUshed in Phantasms of the Living and in the Census of Hal-
lucinations there should be roughly so many fresh cases m England
every year. If there were, you would, presumably, receive and
publish a fair proportion of them. Since you do not, it is reasonable
to suppose that they do not happen nearly so frequently as the
Early Fathers of your Society alleged. And so the statistical case
which they built up may be dismissed." No doubt it is logically
cogent to answer " We don't get such cases, simply because our mem-
bers regarding spontaneous telepathy as an established fact, don t
bother to look for them, or to investigate those which are brought
to their notice, or to report those which they have noticed and
investigated ". But, though logically satisfactory, this answer is
quite useless for the practical purpose of convincing sceptics
The other point which may, with a little stretching, be brought
under the head of quantity of evidence is the following. Critics m
the very early days of the S.P.R. constantly said, as they constantly
say now, that no experimental result will satisfy them unless it can
be reproduced at will in the presence of any number of sceptical
observers. To this Sidgwick makes the obviously sensible answer
that, whilst we should all be delighted to have evidence of this kind,
we have no right to assume that it must be attainable. ( io take an
example from important physiological work which been done
since Sidgwick's day, it was only with enormous difficulty that
Pavlov was able to secure such complete uniformity m the internal
and external conditions of the animals on which he experimented
that his experiments gave uniform results. And the presence of a
stranger, or even of the experimenter himself, completely upsets the
reaction of the animal, although this takes only the very simple
form of salivation. It is at least as likely that thought-transference
if it happens at all depends on a peculiar relation between agent
and percipient which is very easily upset, as that the salivation of
dogs in Pavlov's experiments is partly dependent on a whole complex
of background conditions which can be kept constant only with great
difficulty.)
152 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
We can now leave the subject of quantity and pass to Sidgwick's
views about the quahty of evidence which the S.P.R. should demand.
He is perfectly clear that a mere accumulation of inferior evidence
is of no use. In each single experiment, he says, " we have done all
that we can when the critic has nothing left to allege except that
the investigator is in the trick. But, when he has nothing left to
allege, he will allege that." No evidence should be published until
it reaches that degree of cogency. " We must drive the objector
into the position of being forced either to admit the phenomena as
inexplicable, at least by him, or to accuse the investigators either
of lying or cheating or of a blindness or forgetfulness incompatible
with any intellectual condition except absolute idiocy." These
quotations are taken from Sidgwick's presidential address of July
17, 1882. He returned to the topic in his address of May 10, 1889,
and I will quote one sentence from the latter.
'
' My highest ambition
in psychical research is to produce evidence which will drive my
opponents to doubt my honesty or veracity. I think that there is a
very small minority of persons who will not doubt them, and that,
if I can convince them, I have done all that I can do. As regards
the majority even of my own acquaintances I should claim no more
than an admission that they were considerably surprised to find me
in the trick."
There is one other remark made by Sidgwick which is worth men-
tioning because it still has constant application. In his presidential
address of July 18, 1883, he refers to various normal explanations
of ostensibly supernormal phenomena. After detailing these, and
saying that every one of them is a vera causa which must be excluded
before we can seriously consider any claim to supernormality, he
proceeds to make the following highly pertinent remark. It is a
very common fallacy to put forward a normal explanation which
accounts very satisfactorily for nine-tenths of the phenomena of a
certain kind, but fails to account for the remaining one-tenth which
are equally well attested ; and then either to ignore this recalcitrant
residue or to reject the reports of it and claim that one's normal
explanation covers all the facts. As Sidgwick says, "It is not a
scientific way of dealing with testimony to explain what you can
and say that the rest is untrue. It may be common-sense, but it is
not science." He cites as an example Faraday's well-known explana-
tion of table-turning. This is a valuable explanation of most of the
phenomena. But there are well-attested stories of tables moving
without contact or rising wliolly off the ground, and, if a single one
of these is true, Faraday's theory does not fit all the facts. It seems
to me that Sidgwick here puts his finger on a besetting weakness
156] Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research 153
of the late Mr Podmore, and that that distinguished member of our
Society has left spiritual descendants who are with us at this day.
No accovmt of Sidgwick's dealings with psychical research would
be complete if it ignored the ethical and religious motives which
influenced him in taking it up and in persisting with it. I will there-
fore conclude my paper with a brief account of this factor in his hfe.
We must begin by reminding ourselves that Sidgwick was the son
of a clergyman, that he was brought up as an Anglican Christian,
and that it was not untU his twenty-second or twenty-third year
that he finally abandoned the idea of taking Orders. Next, we must
remember that reports of miraculous events play two parts in
Christianity, one being absolutely essential and the other useful but
dispensable. Christianity differs from most of the other great re-
ligions of mankind in the following way. An essential part of its
doctrine consists in propositions about the nature and unique status
in the imiverse of its own Founder. Therefore certain miracles, such
as his reported resurrection and his subsequent appearances to the
apositles, are parts of Christian doctrine, and not merely parts of the
evidence for Christianity. Other alleged miracles, such as those per-
formed by Christ during his ministry or by the apostles afterwards,
are in a different position. If every one of them were rejected, no
single doctrine of Christianity would need to be modified in the
smallest degree. The importance of these miracles, if genuine, is
evidential. The fact that Christ was able to perform them, and that
he was able to convey to his apostles the power to perform similar,
if somewhat less spectacular, miracles, is held to be strong confirma-
tion of the Christian doctrine about his unique nature and meta-
physical status. Now in England, when Sidgwick was a young man,
enormous stress was laid on the New Testament miracles as evidence
for the truth of Christianity. But it is alleged by followers of other
religions that similar miracles have occurred in connexion with them,
by Roman Catholics that such miracles have continued in their
Church without cessation from apostolic times up to the present
day, and by Spiritualists that they are happening here and now in
mediumistic seances. These allegations placed the standard Protes-
tant argument from the New Testament miracles in an extremely
awkward dilemma for anyone as clear-sighted as Sidgwick. Either
the New Testament miracles were unique or they were not. If they
were unique, they would, no doubt, provide an imique support for
Christianity against its rivals. But, in that case, the whole burden
would ultimately rest on the trustworthiness of the stories recorded
in the New Testament and the untrustworthiness of all the innumer-
able similar stories told in connexion with other rehgions and by
154 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
contemporary Spiritualists. If they were not unique, it might be
much easier to accept them as rare but not unparalleled phenomena.
But then they could provide no special evidence for the truth of
specifically Christian doctrine.
Sidgwick's earlier struggles, like those of most of his intelligent
contemporaries, were to disengage himself from the first horn of this
dilemma. He had been deeply impressed in 1862 by reading Kenan's
Etudes d'Histoire Religieuse, and he set himself to learn Hebrew and
Arabic in order to make a comparative historical study of religion.
In a letter to A. J. Balfour written in 1897, describing his position
in the sixties, he says that what he then wanted in theology was
that the evidences for historical Christianity should be examined
with complete scientific impartiality " as a duly instructed rational
being from another planet (or, let us say, from China) would natur-
ally weigh them ". Looking back, we can see that the result was
a foregone conclusion. By the middle sixties Sidgwick had reached
the position that no religion which depended on the correctness of
historical statements about mysterious events in a foreign country
and a remote period could possibly reach the evidential standard
which he demanded. Writing to Dakyns at the end of 1864, he
says " I have never before freed my innermost consciousness from
the thraldom of a historical belief. Long after the belief had gone
the impression remained that it was all-important to have a view
on the historical question." Now he has reached the conclusion that
there has been enough study of the Bible. What is needed is a com-
parative study of the mystical and of ecstasy ; the remote past being
always subordinated to the present.
In 1869 Sidgwick resigned his fellowship, but he stated at the
same time, in a letter to Benson, that he had no desire to leave the
Church of England. In 1870 he published a book on The Ethics of
Clerical Subscrij)tion. His mature views on this subject are clearly
expressed in a letter which he wrote in May 1881 to J. R. Mozley
in answer to a question which the latter had put to him. He said
that a layman could conscientiously be a member of the Church of
England, provided that he accepted the Apostles' Creed ; but he
added that on one could be said to accept this honestly unless he
accepted the miraculous birth of Christ. Anyone who proposed to
take an office which involved membership of the Church of England
would be dishonest in doing so if he doubted this dogma, and no
bishop could dispense him. If, on the other hand, it were merely
a question of taking part in the worship and the sacraments of the
Church of England as a private individual, a much laxer standard
was permissible, and a bishop's permission might be highly relevant.
156] Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research 155
The religious position which Sidgwick had reached by the age of
forty-two is very clearly stated in a letter which he wrote in the
summer of 1880 to Major Carey, an old Kugbeian friend. The follow-
ing are the essential points. It is now long since he could imagine
himself believing Christianity after the orthodox fashion. He is not,
indeed, inclined to reject the miraculous as such ; but it is clear to
him that, if you accept it in Christianity, you cannot reject it off-
hand in other religions or in modern Spiritualism. For many years
past he has not thought of Christianity except as the creed of his
friends, fellow-countrymen, etc. As regards Theism, he says " I
don't know whether I believe or only hojje that there is a moral order
in the universe ... a supreme principle of Wisdom and Benevolence
guiding all things to good ends and to the happiness of the good.
I hope this. I don't think it can be proved. No opposed explanation
of the origin of the cosmos—e.g., the atomistic theory—seems to me
even plausible. And I cannot accept life on any other terms or
construct a, rational system of my own conduct except on the basis
of this faith." He recognises that his correspondent might well say
" The question is, not whether you would like to believe in God,
but whether the belief is true ". To this, Sidgwick says, he would
answer by asking the following question :
" What guarantee have
you for the fundamental beliefs of science except that they are con-
sistent and harmonious with other beliefs that we find ourselves
naturally impelled to hold? " And he would continue to argue his
case as follows. " This is precisely the relation which I find to exist
between Theism and the whole system of my moral beliefs. Duty
to me is as real as the physical world, though not apprehended in
the same way ; but all my apparent knowledge of duty falls into
chaos if my belief in the moral government of the world is conceived
to be overthrown."
His position, then, may be summed up as follows. We cannot make
an intellectually coherent system out of the data of sense-perception
unless we interpret them in terms of certain general principles, such
as the Uniformity of Nature and the Law of Universal Causation,
which go beyond them and cannot be proved inductively from them.
We cannot make an intellectually coherent system out of the data
of our moral intuitions unless we interpret and supplement them in
terms of Theism, which also cannot be proved from them. Now the
latter data are as indubitable as the former, the demand for intel-
lectual coherence is the same in both cases, and the principles re-
quired are not self-evident or capable of proof in either case. Logi-
cally and epistemologically there is complete parallelism. Either
we have no right to make the postulate in either case or we have
156 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
an equal right to make it in both. The one position which cannot
be defended is to make the postulates demanded by science, and
then, in spite of or even because of this, to refuse to make the
postulates demanded by morality.
Some further very interesting information about Sidgwick's re-
ligious beliefs and doubts is contained in the letter of May 1881 to
J. R. Mozley, which I have already quoted, and in another letter of
1890-1891 to the same correspondent, who had showed him some
letters from Cardinal Newman. In the former communication Sidg-
wick says that he is not prepared to admit that the experience of
Christians that prayers for spiritual help are often answered is an
adequate ground for believing in the objective reality of a sympathis-
ing and answering Spirit. He also makes the following important
point. We must distinguish, he says, between the following three
questions : (i) Has Christianity in the past been beneficial or indispens-
able to human progress? (ii) Is it so nmo and is it likely to be so in
future ? (iii) Is it true ? He thinks that there is very little logical con-
nexion between the second and third of these questions. He would
be prepared to admit that, if it could be shown that Christianity would
always be indispensable to human progress, this would be a prima
facie ground for thinking it likely to be true. But he sees no reason
to believe that it always will be indispensable ;
though he is inclined
to think that, if a general belief in it were to break down now or in
the immediate future, the results would be disastrous.
In the second letter to Mozley he sums up his attitude to Christ-
ianity as follows. Some form of optimism is indispensable for pro-
gressive humanity as a whole, though not for every progressive
individual. The theistic form of optimism is the most attractive and
intelligible for most people. There is no adequate rational basis for
any form of optimism ; and so the theistic form is, in this respect,
no worse off than any other. He thinks that theism will survive,
because it is needed ;
and, if it does so, it will be because of the
support which it still obtains among Euroj)eans from the traditional
belief in Christianity. For his own part, Sidgwick says, he " has
taken service with reason and has no intention of deserting ". But
he confesses that, if he yielded to his hankerings after optimism, it
is likely that the last exercise of his reason would be to submit him-
self to the authority of the Church of Rome. If he were to submit
himself to a^iy external authority, he would have no hesitation, on
broad historic grounds, in choosing the Roman Church.
One more quotation, this time from a note •which Sidgwick wrote
in 1895-1896 to Lord Tennyson about his father's In Memoriam,
must be given as illustrating his reflexions at the end of his life on
156] Henry Sidgtvick and Psychical Research 157
tlie religious controversies of his early manhood. In the sixties, he
says, men were absorbed in struggling for freedom of thought in the
trammels of an historical rehgion. Now i/wi struggle is over. "Free-
dom is won, and what does freedom bring us to? It brings us face
to face with atheistic science. The faith in God and immortality,
which we had been struggling to free from superstition, suddenly
seems to be in the air ;
and, in seeking for a firm basis for this faith,
we find ourselves in the midst of the '
fight with death '
which In
Memoriam so powerfully presents."
We have now before us a fairly clear picture of Sidgwick's religious
struggles and their outcome. Most intelligent and conscientious
Englishmen of his generation went through similar struggles, but
hardly any of them came out by the same gate as Sidgwick. Some
took the path which Sidgwick tells us he was tempted to follow,
and elected to " open their mouths and shut their eyes " and swallow
whatever the Pope might give them. A few, such as Frederic Harri-
son, who wanted the jam of Catholicism without the powder of
Christianity, joined the Comtist Church, at one of whose reunions
Huxley found " three persons and no God ". Many more, of whom
Huxley himself and W. K. Clifl^ord were the most distinguished
examples, found spiritual satisfaction in a kind of revivalistic Agnos-
ticism accompanied by much vigorous banging of the ethical tam-
bourine. (Cliftbrd's solemn excommunication of the eminent scien-
tists who wrote the Unseen Universe, and the exquisitely pompous
ex cathedra pronouncement " The world is made of atoms and ether,
and there is no room in it for ghosts ", may still be enjoyed as perfect
examples of what Jeremy Bentham called " nonsense on stilts
"
and may still be used as warnings against attaching too much weight
to the pontifications of contemporary scientific pundits.) Others,
again, contrived to muddle themselves into a kind of Hegelian
Christianity, in which everything turned into its opposite, and
Materialism and Mentalism were resolved into a higher synthesis
in the glow of which one felt it to be crude and ungentlemanly to
raise concrete questions about historical events and contemporary
phenomena.
It is noteworthy that all these exits, except the ever-open atri
janua Ditis which Sidgwick was tempted and declined to take, are
now utterly out of date and closed to contemporary men. It is
inconceivable that any intelligent and instructed Englishman at the
present day should find a solution of his religious or philosophical
perplexities in Comtism, in revivalistic Agnosticism, or in Hege-
lianised Christianity. This suggests that Sidgwick's insight was
deeper and his purview wider than those of his contemporaries, since
158 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [pakt
they prevented him from accepting those solutions which satisfied
so many of them and which can now be seen to have been delusive.
But, it may be said, Sidgwick's own attitude (it cannot be called a
" solution ") is just as much dated and just as impossible for our-
selves as the alternatives which he rightly rejected. I shall make
no attempt to discuss this very large question as a whole ; but I
will conclude my paper with some remarks on that part of it which
is specially relevant to our subject, viz., the connexion between
Sidgwick's religious and philosophical position, on the one hand, and
his interest in psychical research on the other. In what follows
I shall be stating my own opinions, and I shall be doing so dog-
matically for the sake of brevity ; but I believe that Sidgwick would
have accepted them, in outline at any rate, and that a good case
could be made out for them.
The physical data supplied by normal sense-perception and the
mental data supplied by the introspection and observation of normal
waking persons are the bases on which the whole system of natural
science, including psychology, is built. In this vast coherent system
there is not a single fact to suggest that consciousness ever occurs
except in intimate connexion with certain highly specialised, com-
plex, and delicate material systems, viz., the brains and nervous
systems of living organisms. There are innumerable facts which
show that, during the life of an organism, the nature and' degree of
consciousness associated with it vary concomitantly with the general
health and the special physiological processes of that organism. If
we confine our attention to this aspect of the case, we receive an
overwhelming impression that consciousness is utterly and one-
sidedly dependent, both for its existence and for its detailed mani-
festations, on brains and nervous systems and on processes in them.
When the philosopher comes to reflect on what the scientific
specialist tends to ignore while he is engaged in his professional
business, viz., the fact that the human individual is not only an
object to be observed but is also the experimenter who devises
tests and deliberately carries them out and the theorist who specu-
lates and infers, he finds it very difficult to fit the two aspects of
the whole into a single consistent picture. He also notices that no
scientist, even when occupied in doing his professional work, ever
regards himself or his colleagues for an instant as " conscious auto-
mata ". Plainly there is some very thin ice with some ominous
cracks in it.
Still confining our attention to perfectly normal phenomena whose
occurrence no one would question, we notice that each of us, beside
perceiving, acting upon, and thinking about the external world of
156] Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research 159
material things, is constantly engaged in reflecting upon the actions,
thoughts, desires, and emotions of himself and his fellow-men, and
in making judgments about them which involve such predicates as
" right " and " wrong ", " good " and " evil ", " valid " and " in-
valid ", " true " and " false ". Such judgments are organised into
more or less coherent systems with characteristic principles of their
own, which are formulated in ethics and in logic. These facts about
human nature are not particularly easy to unify with that " con-
scious automaton " view of it which seems to be forced on us when
we confine our attention to the aspects which are studied by the
natural sciences.
At this stage we may, perhaps, be emboldened to put the following
question to ourselves. Need we feel the sHghtest surprise at the
palpable inadequacy of the account of human nature supplied by
natural science? Natural science is concerned only with the data
of human sense-perception, and, for most purposes, only with the
data supplied by the two senses of sight and touch. Even within
this extremely limited region there is a further selection. It deals
only with a normalised extract from the visual and tactual sense-
data of normal waking men. Quite rightly, for its own purposes,
it ignores the peripheral and the abnormal, the sense-data of dreams,
of delirium, of persons under hypnosis, and so on. Since men are
not merely sensitive beings, and since their peripheral and abnormal
sense-data are just as genuine as their central and normal ones, why
should one expect that an account of human nature based exclusively
on this extract from an extract will be adequate ? Echo, so far as
I can judge, answers Why"?
So far, it seems to me, we can get without going beyond common-
sense reflexion on universally admitted facts and without making
any appeal to ideals or emotions. The next step is as follows. We
all know that in the past claims have been made by various persons
to have had supernormal experiences, in which they either gained
knowledge of ordinary facts under extraordinary conditions or had
revealed to them facts about the nature and destiny of mankind
which could not be known by ordinary means. We also know that
such claims are made by or for some of our contemporaries. If such
claims related solely to the remote past, and if there had been no
independent reason to question the adequacy of the account of
human nature based on natural science, these stories might reason-
ably have been dismissed with a smile or a sigh. But, in the actual
situation, there is a clear call to investigate such claims with scrupu-
lous care when they are made by those of our contemporaries, who
cannot be summarily dismissed as knaves or fools. If any such
160 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
claims by them should survive investigation, we may have to view
certain stories about the past with a less sceptical eye.
Suppose, now, that we should find, as a result of our investigations,
that some at least of the claims to supernormal knowledge of ordinary
facts are valid. This would not, of course, have any direct tendency
to show that any human mind existed before or will exist after the
death of its present body. Indeed, as members of the S.P.R. know
full well, it may weaken the force of arguments for that conclusion
based upon mediumistic communications. Nevertheless, it would
have an indirect bearing on the question of pre-existence and sur-
vival. For a great part of the difficulty of any argument in support
of this conclusion is the enormous weight of antecedent improb-
ability which it has to overcome. Now this antecedent improb-
ability is largely dependent upon the belief that every known activity
of the human mind in life is correlated point to point with some
process in the brain and nervous system. If the occurrence of extra-
sensory perception were established, we should have positive em-
pirical grounds for doubting this assumption. Our view of the nature
of the human mind and its relation to its organism would be pro-
foundly modified, and this modification might well reduce the ante-
cedent improbability of its existing in the absence of its present body.
We come now to the last step, and here, for the first time, there is
a reference to ideals and aspirations. It seemed to Sidgwick, and
it seems to me, that, unless some men survive the death of their
bodies, the life of the individual and of the human race is " a tale
told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing ". I
cannot understand how anyone with an adequate knowledge of
physics, biology, psychology, and history can believe that mankind
as a whole can reach and maintain indefinitely an earthly paradise.
Such a belief is a sign of amiability in the young ; but of imbecility,
ignorance, or wilful blindness in the mature. I am not suggesting
for an instant that survival is a sufficient condition of any great
good ; it is obvious that the world might be infinitely worse with
it than without it, as it would be if, e.g., the majority of men survive
only to be tortured unendingly in Hell. All that I maintain is that
it is a necessary condition if the life of humanity is to be more than
a rather second-rate farce. I do not desire to survive myself ; so
far as I can judge, it would be an immense relief to me on purely
selfish grounds to be assured of mortality, and I am not altruistic
enough to bother very much about the fate of the rest of the human
race in my absence. But Sidgwick was a man of noble character
and high ideals, with an overmastering sense of duty and the courage
to face suffering and unpopularity in doing what he believed to be
156] Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research 161
right. That such a man should strongly desire survival for himself
and his fellow-men, as the conditio sine qua non of the seriousness
and worth of human life, was inevitable. And it was natural that,
in desiring it, he should seek for evidence of it in the one corner in
which it seemed to him that evidence might still conceivably be
found.
I suppose it is inevitable that some clever fool should triumphantly
remark that the fact that Sidgwick approached the subject from this
angle and with these desires discounts the value of his work in
psychical research. It should be a sufficient answer to point out
that in fact Sidgwick reached a purely negative conclusion about
the evidence provided by psychical research for human survival.
And, if I may pass from the particular to the general, I would con-
clude with the following observation. A conscientious and critical
person who realises the immense importance of human survival is
much more likely to weight the scales against 'priiria facie evidence
for it than to accept such evidence lightly. His desire that it may
be true, and that it may be proved to be so, will indeed make him
persevere and constantly return to tlie attack after each set-back
and disappointment. This effect it did have on Sidgwick. But he
will be so anxious lest his desires should trick him into accepting
fairy gold that he will be in some danger of rejecting real gold if it
should ever be offered to him.
SOME RECOLLECTIONS OF HENRY SIDGWICK
By Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
[These recollections, written some time ago, have little direct reference
to psychical research. But, after seeing Professor Broad's paper, it
occurred to me that they might help to make up for the lack of personal
contact with Sidgwick which he regrets. I am glad to have the con-
currence of several prominent members of the Society's council in this
view.]
Henry Sidgwick was my uncle by marriage ; and he was a familiar
figure to me from my earliest years. But sympathetic though he
was, I do not think that children particularly appealed to him or
he to them. I never heard whether it was a disappointment to him
to have had none of his own. The only incident that comes strongly
back to me is that we thought his stammer a grown-up affectation
and one to be imitated : which we did to his face!
It was, however, when I went up to Cambridge as an under-
graduate that I first really got to know and appreciate him. Mrs
Sidgwick was at that time principal of Newnham, and they kept
house in a flat there. It was always open to me, and I dined with
them alone there several times a term. Mrs Sidgwick was by tem-
perament a sympathetic listener rather than a talker, and she often
fell into this role while he and I discussed things. No doubt at first
my ideas were too crude, and my stock of knowledge too small to
draw him out to advantage. But this partly mended itself with
lapse of time.
Moreover, one of his salient characteristics was to make the very
most of whatever companionship circumstances might offer. Thus,
at the time I am speaking of, Mrs Sidgwick was " at home " once a
week at tea time to the Newnham students. Many of them were
extremely shy, and to keep the conversational ball rolling was not
altogether an easy matter. Sidgwick was conscious of this, and said
that when there was a difficulty in finding a conversational opening
with a young lady, the longer the pause the more important he felt
the remark ought to be, so that this embarrassing silence tended to
be maintained indefinitely. Outside observers, however, formed a
very different impression. As soon as Sidgwick entered the room
it seemed to them that any embarrassment vanished like smoke.
The group within range of him at once became animated. Everyone
was at ease and expanded quite naturally with a sense of their own
(usually latent) social gifts.
162
[PAUT 156] Some Recollections of Henry Sidgwick 163
The secret of Ms success was in great part that he got really
interested in the topics which interested his companion and entered
into them with zest, however remote they might be from his own
pursuits. Thus about the time I am speaking of (1894), the safety
bicycle with pneumatic tyres was a novelty and became a fashion-
able craze. Many guests brought their bicycles for week-end parties.
Talk at country houses often turned on the different makes of bicycles,
and their constructional details—not that these were discussed with
any real engineering knowledge. Sidgwick was not a bicyclist him-
self, and I remember him saying that he felt left out in the cold
when such topics came up : could anyone recommend him a book
which would supply these deficiencies?
This trait of universal interest in whatever interested other people
was so striking that it once led me to ask him whether anyone ever
bored or irritated him. " Well, yes," he said, " if I make my remarks
and cannot get anything in reply there is a temptation to that."
The subject of priggishness came up, and Sidgwick committed
himself to the statement that he had never met a prig! I attempted
to shake this position by citing a fellow undergraduate whom I had
heard holding forth in the Sidgwick's drawing-room a few days before
in a way that seemed to me singularly priggish. But he would not
have it, and insisted that he had enjoyed the youth's conversation
enormously.
These were various aspects of his tendency to make the best of
people. He was temperamentally anxioiis that everyone should have
a hearing. I implied once that some scientific heretic had not estab-
hshed a claim to be heard. Sidgwick was annoyed by my attitude,
which I daresay was crude enough, and rephed in a tone which for
him was rather severe :
" He asks for attention, not to his authority,
but to his arguments." The same spirit showed itself when he re-
ceived from some paradoxer an elaborate attempt to upset the
Newtonian system of mechanics. Anyone of note in the academic
world is likely to receive communications of this kind occasionally,
and the reply is usually (I imagine) of the briefest. In Sidgwick's
case the subject was quite outside the hne of his own studies, and
this circumstance would have given him a perfectly satisfactory and
courteous line of defence. But he did not avail himself of it. He
asked a distinguished Newnham mathematician to comment on the
letter in detail, and forwarded her observations. We may feel pretty
sure, however, that his trouble was wasted. Anyone who was
sensible enough to profit by a reply of the kind which he sent
would hardly have failed to reahse that his views were worthless
before he submitted them to strangers.
164 Lord Rayleigh [part
It was during the time when I enjoyed the privilege of his intimacy
that Christian Science first began to 1)e talked of. His attitude
towards it was one of sympathetic enquiry. That attitude was not
(and is not) common in academic circles ; and Cambridge was some-
what scandahsed to learn that a lady who had won very exceptional
academic honours had become a convert. Sidgwick was, as is well
known, a protagonist of the Women's Movement, but it had many
opponents ; and one of them attacked him in conversation, pointing
to what he considered to be the collapse of one of its boasted suc-
cesses. Sidgwick was proud of his reply. " Are you aware ", he
said, " that the President of the British Association is a Christian
Scientist?
"
Sir Douglas Galton, the eminent sanitary engineer, was here
referred to. Sidgwick attempted, either personally or through
the Society for Psychical Research (I am not sure which) to elicit
from him some detailed statement of his views ; but without
success. Galton replied to the effect that the matter was too
personal and sacred to hun to admit of discussion in an academic
spirit.
This brings me to the subject of Psychical Research.
When the Memoir of Henry Sidgtvick by A. S. and E. M. S.
appeared in 1906, some reviewers noticed that in the part of the
book deahng with his later years comparatively little reference was
made to psychical research ; and they drew the conclusion that
Sidgwick had become disillusioned on this matter, and regretted
the time and attention he had given to it. Such was by no means
the case. His interest was undiminished, though like other workers
in this direction he probably felt that he was not destined to see
the problems he had worked at finally resolved. His conviction of
the reality of telepathy was the principal definite fruit of his labours.
In saying this I am of course speaking from his own subjective point
of view. The consensus of learned opinion has certainly not reached
this point, though (unless I am mistaken) it is slowly approaching
it. It may be remarked in passing that a revolution in thought of
this kind is not usually, if ever, accomplished by the pundits of the
older generation changing their minds ; but rather by their passing
away, and being replaced in the seat of authority by men of the
next generation who think diff^erently.
The most discussed psychical topics at the time I have been
writing of were the physical phenomena occurring in the presence
of the Italian medium, Eusapia Paladino. Sidgwick's great gifts
were not such as to qualify him particularly for experimental in-
vestigation. He would doubtless be as strong as anyone on the
156] Some Recollections of Henry Sitlgwick 165
purely logical side ; but experimenting is a craft, and the physical
phenomena in question require for their investigation a kind of
cunning in the devising of practical expedients, and an intuition as
to the possibilities of deception, which he knew well were not his.
His bent was not in any degree mechanical.
I never personally had the opportunity of seeing one of Eusapia's
seances. She was entertained at F. W. H. Myers's house at Cam-
bridge, and was, by all accounts, a somewhat difficult guest. It was
found important to keep her in a good humour, and Sidgwick took
much of the burden of this on his shoulders. Her only language
was Italian, and he struggled manfully to make the most of such
knowledge of it as he had.
The result of the Cambridge seances was disappointing, and most,
if not all, of the experimenters were convinced that systematic fraud
was practised by the medium. They themselves were not unpre-
pared to meet guile with guile. Dr Richard Hodgson, an experienced
investigator who was skilled in the resources of trickery, was intro-
duced by Sidgwick as "an old friend ", and without explicit state-
ment the idea was subtly suggested that he was valued more in that
capacity than for his brains. In this way the medium was put off
her guard, with illuminating results.
No more was heard of Eusapia for a time. But presently reports
of further marvels occurring in her presence reached this country
from the Continent. I remember being present one day when
Frederic Myers came in full of eager interest in these, and anxious
to resume experiments with her. But his enthusiasm met with a
cold douche from Sidgwick. After listening at length to what Myers
had to say, he gave his verdict. " I cannot see any reason for
departing from our deliberate decision to have nothing further to
do with any medium whom we might find guilty of intentioned and
systematic fraud." Myers, whose eagerness had by that time been
considerably cooled, found little to say in reply.
One of Sidgwick's traits was a pronounced anti-militarist tendency.
When after the Omdurman campaign. Lord Kitchener came to Cam-
bridge to receive an honorary degree, some enthusiastic young
woman said that he was her hero. When Mrs Sidgwick mentioned
this, Sidgwick remarked that he did not think it heroic to mow
down savages with machine-guns—it might be necessary, but that
was the best that could be said of it. He was not tempted to think
of himself as a man of action, " Knowing ", he said, " that I have
no physical courage, I always hope that I have moral." His own
estimate of his physical courage need not however be taken at its
face value.
166 Lord Rayleigh [part
During the Boer War his attitude certainly verged on the anti-
patriotic. He considered the action of this country indefensible,
I think on the general ground that the Boers had retreated to the
Transvaal in order to get away from British rule, and that if British
subjects had followed them there they did so at their own risk, and
must put up with such legal and pohtical status as the Boer govern-
ment chose to accord. I do not remember how he dealt with the
rather technical questions about British suzerainty which were in-
volved. Mrs Sidgwick did not see eye to eye with him on this
subject, and when he discussed it she was sometimes perceptibly
irritated—a rare event indeed with her.
As the campaign proceeded, with very indifferent success to the
British army, he took a gloomy view of the ultimate prospects. The
following entry in the visitors' book at TerUng bears witness to this,
and was probably the outcome of a somewhat heated discussion :
Christmas 1899.
" Edward Strutt bets Henry Sidgwick a thousand to one in pennies
that there is not an indej^endeut Dutch Republic in South Africa
within 5 years.
(Signed) Henry Sidgwick.
Edward Strutt."
I do not think Sidgwick went so far as to wish ill-success to the
British armies. Certainly he did not, like his friend Oscar Browning,
speak of " us " meaning the Boers.
Sidgwick not infrequently told anecdotes about the mentality of
his childhood, and the general impression they gave was that he
must have combined an earnest sense of duty with complete trust
in what he was told by superior authority.
Thus he used to tell the story of how he began to learn Euchd.
Impressed with what he had gathered from his immediate seniors
of the difficulty of the subject, he determined to grapple with them
before it was officially required of him and learnt several propositions
by rote, apparently without any conception of what they meant.
When his teacher discovered this and explained to him that that
was not the way to learn Euchd, he burst into tears at the thought
that all his effort had been wasted.
He used to dwell on the rude shock he had received when he learnt
that " Benefit of clergy " had meant in effect that clergy might
commit crimes with impunity for which laymen would be punished.
Sometimes, too, he would talk of his undergraduate days, but I
am ashamed to find how small are the gleanings which I can now
set down. He would tell how on one occasion reading mathematics
156] Some Recollections of Henry Sidgwick 167
and classics alternately (he was reading for a double degree) lie suc-
ceeded in getting in fourteen hours of work in the day. " But ",
he said, " I could not resist the temptation to spend the next day
going round to my friends and telling them about it, so that the
average was soon reduced to seven hours."'
I gathered from this and other hints that his method of reading
had not been of the severely methodical order, with rigidly fixed
hours and unflagging attention. " You were with your books," he
said. " If you were tired of reading you smoked a cigarette or looked
out of the window."
Then there was a glimpse of the formidable Dr Whewell, Master
of Trinity, on his way to the university sermon. According to his
theory it was the duty of members of the university to attend it,
and chancing to meet Sidgwick going in the opposite direction he
gave expression to his views. " What did you do? " I asked. " I
was not prepared to surrender my liberty of action," rephed Sidg-
wick, " but I tried to look impressed."
There were many stories current in Cambridge of Sidgwick's hons
mots in conversation. It was alleged, but upon the whole not
credibly, that he used his stammer intentionally to give dramatic
effect to them. Certainly however it was no disadvantage, for the
point gained by being waited for with a moment's suspense. It is
greatly to be regretted that there was no Boswell to record his
sayings—and the attempt to collect them after so many years cannot
have much success. However, here are a few.
It is related that the characteristics of Canon (afterwards Bishop)
Gr. F. Browne were under discussion. Someone remarked that he
was not open to the reproach of losing his temper.
Sidgwick :
" No, b-b-but he rather obviously keeps it."
Sidgwick on Cambridge values, told me by the late Bishop Charles
Gore : "If you want to stand really well with Cambridge, three
things are necessary : that you shouldn't be known outside the
University ; that you should not know anything outside your own
subject ; and that you shouldn't write your own language grace-
fully."
It must not be supposed from these examples that he ever allowed
himself to be cynical or unkind. They perhaps represent the limit
of severity which he allowed himself, unless he felt that condem-
nation was really called for.
I remember once suggesting as a psychological experiment telling
a story without any point to see how people would take it (the sug-
gestion was doubtless crude and stupid, but it must be remembered
in excuse that I was only a boy).
168 Lord Rayleigh [part
Sidgwick : "I have tried it. I remembered when I was half-way
through the story that the point was at the expense of a near relation
of someone who was there. So I left it out. But they laughed all
the same."
Self :
" You showed great presence of mind."
Sidgivick :
" No, I cannot claim that. If I had invented another
point, that would have been something to be proud of."
As a matter of fact, however, his readiness was extraordinary.
A good example of it is told me by Lord Balfour. Sir William
Harcourt lost his seat at Derby at the general election of 1895, and
one Green-Price offered, or was said to have offered, to retire in his
favour.^ On this being read out across the breakfast table, Henry
Sidgwick remarked immediately, " Well, it remains to be seen which
half of his name will be justified this time."
Again, when some purist queried the word reliable (perhaps on
the ground that it should be rely-on-able) Sidgwick remarked :
" The
prejudice against the word is unaccountable and even laughable :
for the word, though not indispensable, should be generally avail-
able."
Apart from his spontaneous sayings, which were often so good
that they were widely repeated, Sidgwick keenly enjoyed hearing
or telling a good story. He was poles apart from the superior person
who only sees in such a " chestnut ". I give one that I have heard
him tell, partly for its own sake, partly because it may help to give
an idea of his lighter side.
" The best example of spontaneous wit I ever heard ", he
said, " was in the Trinity combination room, when a senior
fellow was talking in a rather extravagant way, and turning
round to one of his juniors said, '
My young friend here will bear
me out.' '
Yes ', he rephed, '
Certainly I will. There is a good
precedent for it.' We are told that the young men bore Ananias
out!
"
At times he did not hesitate to descend to elementary forms of
humour. He would repeat a good limerick with keen relish. One
story that he used to tell against himself ran thus. He had formed
a good resolution that when an idea or inspiration occurred to him,
he would not let it slip by, but would write it down at once, so that
it should not be lost. In the night he thought he had such an
inspiration. Conquering his tendency to slumber, and his natural
reluctance to leave the warmth of his bed, he got up and made a
note of it. In the morning he remembered the incident vaguely,
1 The offer does not appear to have been accepted, since he took a seat
vacated by Cornelius Marshall Warmington, K.C.
156] Some Recollections of Henry Sidgwick 169
and looked eagerly to see what he had recorded. He read as
follows :
Somethnes on one leg,
Sometimes on two.
Something to think of,
Something to do!
He thoroughly enjoyed the theatre, which always seemed to put
him in excellent spirits. I remember walking through Piccadilly
Circus with him after a performance, and I made some unfavourable
comment on the moving illuminated signs displayed there. But he
would not agree and maintained that " They add a distinct pleasure
to life."
His autumn holiday was usually spent at his brother-in-law's
home at Whittingehame in East Lothian. In the circle there his
views were always eagerly listened for on any domestic or foreign
crisis in national affairs : they were sure to be ingenious and original,
even if they did not carry complete conviction.
In the afternoons he appeared in another aspect. Garden golf
was in fashion, and though only a very moderate performer, he got
wildly enthusiastic and skipped about hke a child in his excitement
over the game. His long grey beard and the clerical wideawake hat
which he always wore made the effect the more ludicrous. Billiards,
too, he enjoyed enormously, though he was incredibly bad, having
no notion whatever of the game, but no false shame about his
incompetence.
It was over a game of lawn tennis, however, that I saw him for
the only time momentarily angry. There was some question about
whether a ball served was a fault or not. Sidgwick said that he saw
the dust fly (from the whitewashed line). His opponent, not clearly
apprehending the conclusiveness of this evidence, or perhaps not
imderstanding what had been said maintained his position. Sidg-
wick may have thought that his veracity was questioned. His eyes
flashed with anger, and he said, Very well, but I shall avoid playing
with you again." But he instantly accepted an apology, and I am
sure never gave the matter another thought.
I say that this is the only time I saw him angry : but though
I never happened to witness it, I know that any selfish attempt to
encroach on public rights moved him strongly to anger. Witness
the following told by himself. He was sitting in a railway carriage
and two persons of the opposite sex got in. One said to the other
in a loud aside, " I am sure the gentleman will have too much good
feehng to smoke in the presence of ladies." Are you aware ", said
170 Lord Rayleigh [part
Sidgwick, " that this is a smoking carriage? " and the attitude being
maintained he dehberately took out a cigarette and ht it as a protest.
Sidgwick's studies in metaphysics and ethics were quite outside
my ken, and I knew httle of PoHtical Economy. I was, however,
contemplating some study in the latter for the Trinity Fellowship
examination. Candidates were allowed to name the books on which
they wished to be examined, and I asked Sidgwick's advice. He
discussed the matter at some length, but somewhat undecidedly.
Several books were suggested or dismissed. At last I said, " You
have not mentioned your own book." The reply was characteristic.
" Well, no, I have recently been going over it for a new edition, and
the truth is that I find it so very dull that I cannot honestly recom-
mend it.(!)
"
As I recall this conversation I picture his study at Newnham, a
smallish square room with walls entirely covered with books. There
was a desk at which he would stand upright, reading or perhaps
correcting proofs. The pendant electric lamp had been conveniently
brought over it by an extemporised arrangement in which Mrs
Sidgwick's hand might be traced—one knew instinctively that his
was not the mind that had conceived it. The writing table at which
he sat was covered with an incredible quantity of papers in disarray.
This accumulation periodically overflowed into the drawing-room
on the other side of the passage, where it was deposited on the
writing table designed for the use of visitors. At this stage Mrs
Sidgwick usually took action and a clearance was effected with her
help. Apropos of this Sidgwick recalled a discussion which he had
heard on how a murderer should dispose of the corpse of his victim.
" I should put it among the papers on Sir 's writing table " was
the suggested solution. " I think there would be cover for a small
corpse on mine," he said.
Social intercourse and the exercise of hospitahty were to Sidgwick
keen pleasures. At the same time he had a definite ethical objection
to luxurious expenditure. He used to tell how, at one time, he had
under the influence of this feeling, severely simpUfied the enter-
tainment at his dinner parties, cutting off the champagne or other
expensive wine, and generally reducing it below the prevaihng
standard. But an unforeseen difficulty arose. He felt the need
under these circumstances of making it up to his guests by added
conversational brilliance ; and the strain of this weighed so heavily
upon him that he abandoned the effort and went back to the cham-
pagne! I think as a matter of fact that he appreciated good things
and enjoyed them when he could do so without a feehng of personal
responsibility. The cooking at Newnham wa.s not above criticism,
156] Some Recollections of Henry Sidgwick 171
and I have known him goaded into strong protest on the subject.
Mrs Sidgwick said practically nothing in reply.
His ethical scruples had no apphcation in cases when he was clear
that comfort added to efficiency. I asked if he was in the habit of
taking a sleeping car south from Scotland. " Yes," he said with
decision, '"
I always take one. Life is not long enough to allow one
to waste the next day by want of rest."
As may be read in detail in the Memoir, Sidgwick was a leader
in the Women's Education Movement in Cambridge, Newnham
College having been in large measure his creation. In 1895-6 it
was felt that the time had come to move in the direction of securing
the degree for women ; it was found in practice (though the
opponents of the movement could not or would not believe it)
that the lack of a titular degree put women who had passed the
standard at Cambridge at a disadvantage compared with womea
from other universities to whom the titular degree was granted.
However, the attempt was not at that time successful. Party feel-
ing ran high on the subject. Among other incidents a committee
of undergraduates approached the Vice-Chancellor and asked whether
they might present a memorial against granting the degree, and
they were given a favourable answer. Sidgwick was much incensed
at this. When the subject came up in conversation, and it was
suggested that the tmdergraduate leaders were unjustified in inter-
fering, I remarked that it seemed to me that they were whitewashed
i
by the official reception of their memorial. Sidgwick was silent.
When appealed to he said, " I quite agree. The undergraduates
ought to have been told it was not their business. If I were to say
publicly what I think, it would not conduce to peace. In a few
years I shall resign my Professorship and then I shall say some plain,
words on that and other subjects.'' The failure of the movement
was a deep disappointment to him, and he said wearily that he
intended to give up trying to influence university opinion. The
work was too much uphill.
Although in this particular matter he was a strong partisan, he
was sometimes criticised for sitting too much on the fence. Thus,
at a committee meeting on some question of university administra-
tion, the chairman observed him twisting his beard and showing
'
signs of mental activity, and said, " Professor Sidgwick, do you
wish to say anything about this proposal?
"
Sidgivick : "I was p-p-pursuing a train of thought which might
lead to an objection."
Sidgwick's sympathetic and unselfish nature showed itself in many
directions, but nowhere more strongly than in his interest in the
I
172 {Lord Rayleigh [part
hopes and aspirations of the younger generation. Any freshman
who through old family friendship or otherwise had a claim on his
notice was sure to be asked to dine, and cordially received ; and
if in any case the friendship failed to ripen, the fault certainly was
not Sidgwick's.
He had, however, a rather unfortunate shortcoming in never
recognising a passer-by in the street, and this was often misunder-
stood. Many people assumed that he had decided that conventional
greetings were tiresome and that it was better to avoid them.
However, I reproached him on one occasion with never recognising
me, and he clearly failed to realise that there was any truth in the
charge.
He always seemed to estimate the capacities of his young friends
on a generous scale ; and if they seriously failed to make good when
it came to the ordeal of a Tripos examination, it was a shock to him.
His natural reaction in such a case was to consider whether the
university system was not at fault rather than the young man whom
it had judged adversely. Perhaps this was partly due to his in-
stinctive sympathy with the weak when at issue with the strong,
partly to the vein of unorthodoxy that ran through his whole
character.
I do not remember to have discussed rehgious behefs with him,
l3ut his views are set forth in the pubhshed Memoir. A few casual
gleanings may be mentioned. I have heard the present Archbishop
of Canterbury quote in an after-dinner speech his remark :
" Bishops
individually represent everything that I find most agreeable ; col-
lectively, everything that I most detest." That (it seems) was what
he thought of bishops, and it will serve to introduce what a dis-
tinguished bishop^Charles Gore—thought of him. He spoke of
Henry Sidgwick as coming as near as any man he knew to the
character described in the text " Blessed are the pure in heart."
Asked whether he regarded Sidgwick as a Christian, he said he
did, and referred to the passage in the New Testament ^ on the two
brothers, one of whom said, " I go " and went not, and the other
said, " I will not go " and went.
In the summer term of 1900 I was in residence at Cambridge as
usual, working in the Cavendish Laboratory. I dined with the
Sidgwicks quietly once or twice at the beginning of term, but then
followed a long interval without my hearing from them. It crossed
my mind as a httle odd, but I knew of no reason to attach special
importance to it. Doubtless, I thought, they have not happened to
' Si-. Matthew xxi. 28-30.
156] Some Recollections of Henry Sidgwick 173
have a suitable day free. Then came a letter from Mrs Sidgwick
asking me to come and see them on an appointed afternoon. I did
so, and Mrs Sidgwick told me, simply and bravely, the dreadful
news. Sidgwick had had symptoms to which he had not attached
special importance, but (I think at her insistence) had consulted a
speciahst, who pronounced that he had a mortal disease. An opera-
tion would be necessary almost immediately, but could not avert
the ultimate result. Possibly a year or two of invalid life might
remain in which he might be able to wind up the literary work
which he had on hand.
I saw him for a moment after the interview with her. There was
not a shade of difference from his usual cheery manner.
" Well, you have heard how it is with me," he said. " You see
I beheve in science ; I am submitting to this operation though I
feel perfectly well."
The next and last time I saw him was a month or two later at
Terhng, my own home. He had gone there to recruit, as was hoped,
after the operation. But the result was far otherwise. I was sent
for one day to his room. The change in him was terrible, and it was
evident even to my inexperienced eye that the end could not be far
off. He said that he had not strength for a long interview, but that
he had sent for me because he wished to hear how my scientific
work was going on. I told him what I could with a feeling however
that the insignificant details of my efforts were quite out of place
in face of the awful change that was impending. But it was like
him to be thinking of the intellectual interests of another even at
that time. He wished me good-bye, and hoped for my success in
the immediate object of my ambitions. A few days later he was
gone. He Ues in the family corner in Terhng Churchyard.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 157
THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
TO PSYCHOTHERAPEUTICS ^
By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
From the earliest times it has been believed or suspected that in the
treatment of disease something more than physical or material
means is necessary or desirable. Attempts to cure bodily or mental
disorders arose in connexion with religious and magical practices.
When primitive man was stricken with illness he cried for some divine
intervention or some magical gesture that would restore him to
health. It was thought that all disease was due to the malign
influence of gods or devils and could be counteracted only by prayer
and propitiation, or that it was due to the agency of less powerful
spirits or other human beings whose evil influence could be annulled
by magical rites. The world of primitive man was a world of spiritual
agencies which had to be reckoned with in every form of human
experience, and it was long before the concept of physical causation
in a natural world supplanted the supernaturalism inherent in
animistic beliefs.
Up to the eighteenth century the occult influences operating in the
cure of disease were always regarded as being of a spiritual nature,
but in the Age of Reason men sought more and more for some
material or physical source of all such influences whatsoever. But
as no likely source could be found on earth men's minds turned
back to one of the oldest of beliefs, namely, belief in the influence
of the stars on human life. In 1765 a young Viennese student of
medicine, Franz Anton Mesmer, wrote a thesis for his Doctor's
^ This paper was read at a Private Meeting of the Society on October 27,
1938.
K ]75
176 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PABT
degree, on " The Influences of the Planets on the Human Body ".
He thought that the heavenly bodies exerted a direct influence on
all living creatures by means of a subtle fluid which emanated from I
them. This fluid he considered to be of the nature of magnetism
and for a time he used magnets in the treatment of his patients.
Later he believed that a similar influence could be transmitted
through his own touch or even by passing his hand over the patient
without contact. The force which he believed emanated from his
own body in this process he called Animal Magnetism. Strange
effects and marvellous cures were brought about by his methods, and '
he soon found himself opposed by the medical profession and
denounced as a charlatan by the whole world of science. But his
views and his methods were adopted and successfully applied by his
disciples, and to be treated by animal magnetism or mesmerism, as
it came to be called, was for a time a fashionable craze.
When James Braid, a Manchester surgeon, in 1845 showed that
the mesmeric state could be brought about without the use of any
so-called mesmeric passes, and without any belief in a magnetic
fluid, the way was opened for the rise of what we now know as the
Theory and Practice of Hypnotism. Braid got his first results by
asking the patient to fix his gaze on some bright object held in front
of his eyes, and when this process was found to induce sleep Braid
thought that this was due to neuro-muscular fatigue caused by the
fixed gazing. Later he came to realise that the essential feature in
his method was the suggestion of sleep implicit in his technique.
But the full development of the theory of suggestion as the essential
factor in the induction of hypnosis and its accompanying phenomena
was the outcome of later researches, mainly those of Liebault and
Bernheim, the founders of the so-called Nancy School.
Although we now know that Braid discovered in suggestion what
is believed to be the essential factor in the induction of the mesmeric
state, acceptance of his teaching was very tardy. His views were
opposed, not only by many medical men but also by the mesmerists ;
they would not admit that the hypnotic state was the same as the
mesmeric state. Moreover they maintained that what were called
the " higher phenomena " of mesmerism, e.g., clairvoyance, could
not be obtained by Braid's methods.
The whole subject of mesmerism and hypnotism and their relation
to one another remained confused and controversial for many years.
The old belief that magnetism had some connexion with the pheno-
mena lasted for a long time, and even as late as 1880 Charcot was
using magnets to produce effects of various kinds on his hysterical
patients. It was in an age of mingled scepticism and credulity con-
157] Psychical Research to Psychotherapeutics 177
cerning these matters that the Society for Psychical Research was
founded in 1882. The founders of the Society thought the time
opportune " for making an organized and systematic attempt to
investigate that large gTOup of debateable phenomena designated by
such terms as mesmeric, psychical, and spiritualistic ". A special
committee was formed for " the study of hypnotism, and the forms
of so-called mesmeric trance with its alleged insensibility to pain ;
clairvoyance, and other allied phenomena ". On this committee
we find the names of Edmund Gm-ney, Frederic W. H. Myers. Frank
Podmore, Sir William Barrett, and other less well-known men.
Most of the research work of this committee was inspired and
carried out by Edmund Gurney.
To appreciate fully the importance of Gurney's writings on
hjrpnotism it is necessary to bear in mind the attitude of men of
science towards hypnotism and mesmerism in the year 1882 when
the Society for Psychical Research was founded. All the well
attested facts of mesmerism, the profound anaesthesia induced by
Esdaile in India, the many genuine phenomena observed and
recorded by Elliotson in England, were derided by the whole
scientific world. The reality of the mesmeric state was denied
because the existence of the magnetic fluid was thought to be dis-
proved by Braid's demonstration that a similar state could be brought
about in the absence of all mesmeric manipulation, xlcute contro-
versy arose between the mesmerists and the hypnotists, but in the
course of years it died down, and after the death of Braid and
Elliotson interest in the subject waned to such a degree that in
England there was no scientific investigation into the rival claims of
the mesmerists and the hypnotists until Gurney began his work in
1882. As Frederic Myers said of him : "he was the first Englishman
who studied with any kind of adequate skill the psychological side of
hypnotism, making therein experiments—cut short, of course, by
his premature death, but already of the highest value—experi-
ments which, though sometimes concurrent with those of the French
School, were yet independently executed ; and which mark, as it
seems to me, an epoch in the study of hypnotism in England
"
(Proceedings, SP.R. IV, p. 365).
In his early work on this subject two problems specially occupied
Gurney's attention. The first question he tried to answer was : Is
the hypnotic state ever induced by some yet unrecognized agency
—
some specific influence of operator on subject ? Long after suggestion
had been recognised as the efficient cause of hypnotic state, " passes
"
were still used in its induction, and both Gurney and Myers were
inclined to believe that there was some evidence found in the course
178 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
of their experiments to justify the claims of the mesmerists in this
matter.
Myers thought that Gurney's experiments proved " that there is
sometimes in the induction of hypnotic phenomena some agency at
work which is neither ordinary nervous stimulation (monotonous or
sudden) nor suggestion conveyed by any ordinary channel to the
subject's mind ". The chief form of experiment on which this
conclusion was based was described by Gurney as follows :
" The
'
subject ' is made to put his arms through a thick screen, extending;
high above his head, and to spread his ten fingers on a table in front
of him. The fingers are thus completely concealed from his view,
and the operator's hand is held, without contact, at a distance
varying from about a third to three-quarters of an inch, over one or
another of them—according to my selection—with the result that
in a very large majority of cases, the finger so treated, and that
finger alone, becomes rigid, and insensible to extremely severe
treatment in the way of stabs, burns and electric shocks ".
Although Gurney and Myers stressed the importance of further
testing of these results by other observers, little interest in their
work was shown ; for under the growing influence of the French
School the conviction became general that suggestion was the sole
and sufficient cause of all hypnotic phenomena.
Some further experiments, recorded l^y Mrs Sidgwick and Miss
Alice Johnson, in 1890 {Proceedings, S.P.R. Vol. VIII) corroborated
Gurney's results, but these observers arrived at a different conclusion,
as to how these results were brought about. They thought that the
rigidity and anaesthesia were due to suggestion conveyed tele-
pathically from the operator to the subject. They were further of
opinion that their experiments disproved Gurney's hypothesis of a
physical efliuence directed by the concentrated will of the operator.
This subject was again brought before the Society in 1920 by the
late Dr Sydney Alrutz, Lecturer in Psychology in the University of
Upsala, and he described some experiments performed by him which
convinced him of the reality of a nervous effluence such as Gurney
had postulated. After Dr Alrutz's death, his methods were demon-
strated, by his assistant, to a group of psychologists at the eighth
International Psychological Congress at Groningen in 1926, and a
report of this demonstration by Dr Van Loon and Dr Thouless
appeared in Proceedings (Vol. XXXVI). These experiments were
not successful, and all those before whom they were demonstrated
agreed that " the results obtained point to the ordinarily accepted
theory of suggestion in hypnosis as an adequate explanation of all
the phenomena observed ".
157] Psychical Research to Psychotherapeutics 179
Although this problem of an unrecognised agency in the induction
•of hypnosis occupied Gurney's mind from the beginning, he soon
turned his attention to the psychological phenomena of hypnotism
—
a sphere in which he did much work of outstanding value. His most
important contributions to our knowledge were his papers on " The
Stages of Hypnotism ", " The Problems of Hypnotism ", " Stages
of Hypnotic Memory " and Hypnotism and Telepathy ".
The occurrence of different stages or degrees of hypnosis, and the
memory relations of these stages to each other and to the waking
consciousness, present some of the most perplexing features of trance
states, whether arising spontaneously or artificially induced. Al-
though Janet, in France, was at this time occupied with these
problems, Giu:ney"s work was begun independently and was set forth
in a series of contribution to our Proceedings, the first of which
appeared a few months after the publication of Janet's first paper.
Although so little attention had been paid to hypnotism in England
since Braid's time, there had been several investigators on the
Continent, but their observations and experiments were little known
in this country. Grurney's experiments, therefore, were received with
increduhty and few realised that he was laying the foundations on
which the psychology of abnormal mental states during the next
twenty years was to be based.
Most of the experimental work was devised and carried out by
€rurney, but the theoretical imphcations of his results was more
particularly the task undertaken by Frederic Myers. Partly derived
from Grurney's experiments, partly from Janet's clinical observa-
tions and partly from his own studies on various forms of automatism,
Myers put forward a view of the nature of hysteria which was far
in advance of the teaching of Enghsh cUnicians. Wilham James,
writing on Myers' service to Psychology, said :
" Myers' work on
automatism led to his brilliant conception, in 1891, of hysteria. He
defined it, with good reasons given, as a '
disease of the hypnotic
stratum '. Hardly had he done so when the wonderfully ingenious
observations of Binet, and especially of Janet, in France, gave to this
view the completest of corroborations. These observations have
been extended in Germany, America and elsewhere ; and although
Binet and Janet worked independently of Myers, and did work far
more objective, he nevertheless wHl stand as the original announcer
of a theory which, in my opinion, makes an epoch, not only in medical,
but in psychological science, because it brings in an entirely new
conception of our mental possibilities ". [Proceedings, S.P.R. XVII,
It is interesting at the present day to recall that the first citations
180 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
brought forward by Myers in support of his views were from Breuer
and Freud's epoch-making paper on " The Psychical Mechanism of
Hysterical Phenomena ". After giving a brief abstract of this paper
Myers said : "I could not wish for a more emphatic support, from
wide clinical experience, of the view of hysteria to which my own
observations on different branches of automatism had already, by
mere analogical reasoning, directed my thought."
As is well known, Freud's views on Hysteria have undergone a
great development since those early days, but there is nothing in his
earlier work that is opposed to his theories of to-day. Would that
we had to-day a Frederic Myers to evaluate those theories and to
incorporate them in a new study of Human Personality.
Besides the early work of Gurney and Myers there were in later
years many important contributions on this subject by medical
men who were members of the Society for Psychical Research and
whose earliest writings appeared in our Proceedings. Dr Lloyd
Tuckey, one of our members, was one of the first men in England,
after Braid's time, to resume the use of hypnotism in medical
practice. Dr Milne Bramwell also joined our Society and contri-
buted many important papers to our Proceedings. By his forceful
personality and his courage he did more, perhaps, than any man in
our time to compel the medical profession to consider the claims of
hyj^notic suggestion as a therapeutic method.
Although the therapeutic side of hypnotism was by no means
neglected in the work of the Society—indeed the seemingly myster-
ious influence implicit in the records of " hypnotic " cures was one
of the primary interests of its founders—nevertheless, experimental
work was that to which the pages of Proceedings were most freely
and appropriately open. The original records of one series of
experiments, namely, experiments on the Appreciation of Time by
HyjDnotic Sonmambules, are to be found, exclusively I think, in our
Proceedings.
Although all experimental work on hypnotism has bearings on
therapeutics, it is, however, in relation to psychopathology that its
residts are most enlightening. Knowledge of the peculiarities of
hypnotic memory proved very helpful in the study of the conditions
known as Double and Multiple Personality. This topic came into
prominence through the work of Pierre Janet and other French
observers, and although Gurney and Myers had Httle opportunity
of studying such cases at first hand, Myers, after Gurney's death in
1888, made an exhaustive examination of all the available records,
and was convinced of the importance of such studies for a true
understanding of the workings of the mind. His conclusions were
157] Psychical Research to Psychotherapeutics 181
expounded in many papers in our Proceedings and were ultimately
incorporated in his great work on " Human Personality and its
Survival of Bodily Death
'
'
.
Some of these cases of double personality were recorded for the
first time in our Proceedings, for example the case of Ansel Bourne,
reported by Richard Hodgson ; but wheresoever these stories were
recorded the earlier cases were very fully summarised and com-
mented on by Myers, and later ones by other members of the Society.
The interest of Psychical Research in these pathological records
was largely due to the many similarities observed between the mani-
festations of multiple personality and the phenomena of medium-
istic trance. The main problem was to discover the true nature of
secondary personalities, and whether all secondary personalities had
the same origin. The secondary personalities of the French cases
were obviously formed by a massive splitting of the mind, by what
was called a disaggregation or dissociation of consciousness. Restora-
tion to the normal state was achieved by bringing about a reunion
of the split-off portions. Occasionally, however, it was found that
one of the secondary personalities failed to become incorporated in
the restored personality—which was presumably the full normal self.
For example, in the Beauchamp case recorded by Morton Prince,
there seemed to be no representative of the personality Sally in the
restored Miss Beauchamp. As Morton Prince enigmatically said,
Sally went back to " where she came from ". Some investigators
are tempted to believe that in cases of this kind we have examples
of invasion by an extraneous spirit similar to that which they beheve
occurs in mediuniistic trance. Thus, in the Doris Fischer case,
recorded so fully by Dr Walter Prince, the personality " Sleeping
Margaret " claimed to be a spirit, and Dr Prince and Dr Hyslop were
of opinion that her claim was justified.
Many psychologists who have studied such cases deny the neces-
sity of ascribing to these personalities any origm different from that of
secondary personalities due to splitting of the self, nor do they admit
that the personalities known as " controls " in mediumistic trance
have any other origin. They do not admit the spirit hypothesis,
even in those rare cases of so-called " personal control " in which
possession of the entranced medium by an extraneous spirit would
appear to afford the readiest explanation of the observed phenomena.
The best critical study of this problem is to be found in Mrs Sidg-
wick's important monograph on " The Psychology of Mrs Piper's
trance " {Proceedings, S.P.R. Vol. XXVIII).
It might be supposed that in raising the c^uestion of sp rit posses-
sion we are passing beyond the territory common to both Psycho-
182 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
pathology and Psychical Research ; but in view of the opinion of so
acute a critic as Mrs Sidgwick that all mediumistic controls are but
secondary personalities or impersonations at the hypnotic level of
consciousness, we are perhaps justified in regarding all such pheno-
mena as part of the subject matter of psychopathology. In so doing
we imply nothing either directly or indirectly about the related topic
of the supernormal acquisition of knowledge, with which we are not
now concerned.
In the early years of the twentieth century the part played by
Medical Psychology in Psychical Research became so considerable
that the Council of the Society for Psychical Research decided to
form a Medical Section of the Society and to publish at intervals
special medical parts of Proceedings. Part 66, Vol. XXVI of Pro-
ceedings, was the first, and the last, special medical part that was
issued ; for in 1914 the war came, and after the war the medical
section of the Society for Psychical Research was discontinued for
reasons which I will briefly explain.
The revival of psychotherapeutics in England may be said to date
from 1905, when a Society for the Study of Suggestive Therapeu-
tics, afterwards called the Psycho-medical Society, was formed in
London. From an earlier period there had been in existence an
association of Academic Psychologists called the British Psycho-
logical Society. During the war some well-known members of this
Society who held medical qualifications, such as Dr W. H. R. Rivers,
Dr Charles S. Myers and Dr William Brown, had been engaged in the
Army Medical Service, and had done much psychotherapeutic work
among soldiers suffering from so-called " shell shock ". When the
war was over the British Psychological Society decided to form
various sections within the general framework of the Society, and a
Medical Section, with a large membership, was the first to be formed.
It published a quarterly journal. The British Journal of Medical
Psychology, and as it was thought that all psychotherapeutic and
psychopathological interest would now centre in this new organisa-
tion, the old Psycho-medical Society and the Medical Section of the
Society for Psychical Research were discontinued, as it was felt
that they could serve no further useful purpose.
Although the activity of the Medical Section of our Society thus
came to an end we still continued to publish in our Proceedings
contributions from medical psychologists on the various topics to
which I have referred, namely, mesmerism, hypnotism, multiple
personality and the psychology of trance states in general. But as
time went on it became plain that since the war the very foundations of
medical psychology, on which we had built for over twenty years, had
157] Psychical Research to Psychotherapeutics 183
been shaken by the work of Professor Freud and his pupils. Interest
in hypnotism and its phenomena waned and its use by medical men as
a therapeutic agent was gradually abandoned in favour of some
form of mental analysis based on the discoveries of Professor Freud.
Although the bearing of these discoveries on Psychical Research
was by no means clear, we welcomed any light on our problems that
the analysts could give us. It was about this time that Freud's
work came to be generally known about in this country, and we asked
him to contribute a paper on his use of the word unconscious
"
in his writings. He very kindly sent us a "Note on the Unconscious
"
which was published in Proceedings and subsequently in his "Collected
Papers ". In this paper he told us " what the term '
unconscious
'
has come to mean in Psycho-analysis and in Psycho-analysis alone ".
It is diflhcult at the present day to recapture the atmosphere in
which the early teachings of psycho-analysis were received in this
country thirty years ago, but those who can do so will understand
why a paper on " The Psycho-analysis of Suggestion and Hypnosis
"
which we received from Ferenczi, a well-known Hungarian psycho-
analyst, was not published in our Proceedings. It was thought in-
advisable to do so in a lay publication because of the attitude of
public opinion at that time towards Freud and his work, and with
Ferenczi's consent his paper was handed over to the Psycho-
medical Society and was published in its Transactions.
With the general adoption of analytical methods in the treatment
of psycho-neurotic illness the interrelations of psychical research
and psychotherapeutics became less obvious, and at the present
time we cannot say that the researches of one department of know-
ledge have much bearing -on those of the other. But there will
always remain some common ground—the realm of the unexplained
—in which discoveries may be made in one field of investigation or
the other. That there is a realm of the unexplained in the history
of mental healing cannot be denied.
That there is some unknown force at work in the healing of the
sick, in addition to the ostensible means employed, is a belief that
can be traced from the beginnings of history up to the present day.
This force has been interpreted in various ways, sometimes as divine
or magical influence, sometimes as an occult physical or mental
influence emanating from the healer, sometimes as merely faith on
the part of the healed. Belief in the existence and efficacy of such
forces is still widespread at the present day. Although civilised man
may have given up the beliefs of the savage in respect to the causa-
tion of disease, there still linger in the depths of the mind the
deposits of ages of what we presume to call superstition, and a
184 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [past
craving for some manifestation of supernatxiral power that will cure
liim as the forefathers of his race were cured.
The advice of the prophet, given at second hand through a
messenger, " Go and wash in Jordan seven times " seemed to Naa-
man a poor way of treating leprosy. He was wroth and went away
and said, " Behold, I thought, He will surely come out to me, and
stand, and call on the name of the Lord his Grod, and strike his hand
over the place." The leper missed the personal contact with the
healer. What he was told to do was too simple, too commonplace ;
there was no incantation, no magical gesture, no appeal to a divine
power. There was no special virtue or charm, he thought, in the
waters of Jordan. " Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damas-
cus, better than all the waters of Israel? ... So he turned and went
away in a rage."
Even when material remedies were accepted and used in the treat-
ment of disease, belief in the part played by spiritual agencies was
slow to disappear, and when spiritual agencies as understood by
primitive man were finally dethroned, agencies of a hidden nature
were still beheved in. When Socrates was asked by Charmides about
his cure for headache, he rephed that " it was a kind of leaf, which
required to be accompanied by a charm, and if a person would repeat
the charm at the same time that he used the cure, he would be made
whole, but that without the charm the leaf would be of no avail ".
Further he said : "If the head and body are to be well, you must
begin by curing the soul ; that is the first thing. And the cure . . .
has to be effected by the use of certain charms, and these charms are
fair words."
Let us return to modern times and ask if there is any unknown
force, any " charm ", in the therapeutics of to-day. It is commonly
admitted that what is vaguely spoken of as " the personality of the
physician " plays an important part in ordinary medical treatment^
and it is widely held that the influence thus effected is in some way
related to the influence of suggestion in psychotherapy. But how
suggestion ever acts to produce curative results is just one of the
unsolved problems that we have to consider.
In the days of the later mesmerists much stress was laid on the
rapport which became estabUshed between the patient and the
mesmerist, and this was ascribed in some unexplained way to the
marvellous attributes of the magnetic fluid. A similar rapport,
however, was found to exist between the hypnotist and the hypno-
tised person when no mesmeric methods were used in the induction
of hypnosis. There have been many attempted explanations of the
peculiar relation of the hypnotised subject to the hypnotiser, but
157] Psychical Research to Psychotherapeutics 185
none of them is quite satisfactory. Dr McDougall ascribes all
suggestibility and hypnotic rapjJort to the rousing of the instinct of
submission by one who has prestige in virtue of some quality or
supposed quaUty that renders him imposing to the person whom he
influences. Freud compares hypnosis to the state of being in love.
He says :
" The respects in which the two agree are obvious. There
is the same humble subjection, the same compliance, the same
absence of criticism, towards the hypnotist just as towards the loved
object."
Here then, in the abihty to arouse feelings of submission or of
love, may perhaps be found the " charm " without which suggestion
is of no avail. But although we may have found the key to suggest-
ibility, that is to say, why a therapeutic suggestion is accepted so as
to become efiicacious, we stUl do not know how it acts.
The control by suggestion of organic process over which we have
no voluntary control is as mysterious to us now as it was in Mesmer's
day. It is an aspect of the mind-body relation of which we can give
no explanation either physiological or psychological. I do not think
anyone understands how such results are brought about. They are a
form of obedience or compliance which neither the instinct of suh-
mission, nor love, nor fear can account for. Thus notwithstanding
all our experience of suggestion and the effects that it can produce
we must still acknowledge the activity of some unknown force
behind its manifestations.
Suggestion dehberately employed has produced so many seeimngly
miraculous cures that we are perhaps too ready to ascribe to sugges-
tion all so-called miracles of healing, without being sure that no other
force may be at work. There are on record, both in the past and in
the present, so many instances of alleged miracles of healing in
which, if we light-heartedly dismiss them as being due to nothing
but suggestion, we are perhaps missuig some unknown factor, the
reality and importance of which may some day be acknowledged.
No sounder advice was ever given to scientific investigators than the
direction to " examine your residues ". If in alleged cases of
miraculous healing, whether " spiritual healing ", " faith heahng ",
or any form of curing the sick that recalls to our minds the so-called
superstitions of the past—if, in investigating these cases we find any
residuum of unexplained phenomena, it is our duty to search with
unbiased minds for any unknown factor that may be involved.
To do so is a duty of obedience to the teachings of the history of
science, and it is a lesson that has often been taught us in the practice
of Psychical Research. We need to avoid the intellectual arrogance
which misleadingly assumes that we know far more about the nature
186 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
of things than we actually do, just as we must avoid all enthusiasms
that would tend to pervert our intellectual judgments. Nowhere
do we find the pernicious effects of such enthusiasms more clearly
displayed than in the hasty rej ection of new truths which happen to
be opposed to our beliefs and prejudices, or in the uncritical accept-
ance of beliefs that fulfil our wishes.
The lesson to be learnt from all our work in Psychical Research, as
it seems to me, is this : the need to keep a suspended judgment
whenever we encounter new facts or new theories that do not fit
into our accepted scheme of things, or that too readily satisfy our
hearts' desires.
To many of you, I feel sure, such a Laodicean attitude will not
appeal : to me it is the very essence of the scientific spirit. To the
man of science there should be but one supreme enthusiasm—the
enthusiasm for truth.
157] Review 187
EEVIEW
Mrs Henry Sidgwick. A Memoir. By her niece Ethel Sidgwick.
Sidgwick and Jackson, Ltd., London. 12s. 6d. net.
Members of tkis Society will hardly need to be reminded of the
debt it owes to Mrs Sidgwick. Although she did not join the Society
imtil 1884, two years after its foimdation, she may be counted one
of its founders in all but the narrowest sense of the word, and no
one did more than she to shape the Society's course, or contributed
more to its achievements during the first 50 years. The earliest of
her own papers " Phantasms of the Dead " appeared in Proceedings
in January 1885 ; her last was a History of the Society, written on
the occasion of its Jubilee in 1932, when she was eighty-seven years
old. Between these two dates she contributed constantly to Pro-
ceedings and took a large share (in collaboration with Henry Sidgwick
and others) in such important pieces of research as " Phantasms of
the Li\Tng and the Census of Hallucinations "'.
There is no field in which Mrs Sidgwick's personal quahties were
more apparent than in psychical research, her human sympathy and
desire to help people in any way she could, her meticulous acciu:acy,
her infinite capacity for taking pains, her willingness to embark on
any task, however long, duU and immediately unprofitable it might
be, if there was the shghtest hope that at the end of it the sum of
knowledge might be increased, her clear and impartial judgement on
matters of evidence, and last but not least, her unswerving determin-
ation to follow truth wherever it might lead her.
In Chapter VI of I\Iiss Sidgwick's book, entitled " Newnham and
Beyond ", the author traces the gradual development of Mrs Sidg-
wick's opinions on the question of human survival and the possibihty
of communication with the dead from the doubt of early days to-
the conviction pubhcly annoimced by her brother, Lord Balfour, at
the Jubilee Meeting :
" Conclusive proof of survival is notoriousljr
difficult to obtain. But the evidence may be such as to produce
belief, even though it fall short of conclusive proof. ... I have Mrs
Sidgwick's assurance—an assurance which I am permitted to convey
to the meeting—that, upon the evidence before her, she herself is a
firm believer both in survival and in the reaUty of communication
between the hving and the dead."
Where proof is unobtainable, conviction must always be to some-
extent a personal matter, but it may fairly be said that no one had.
188 Review [part
a better right to conviction on this particular issue than Mrs Sidg-
wick, for no one has ever raade a more complete and careful study
of all available evidence, or is less hkely to be led astray by prejudice
or emotional bias.
In addition to her contributions to research, Mrs Sidgwick played
a large part in the administrative side of the Society's work ; she
was not only a Council Member for many years and President in
1908 and 1909, but she was Honorary Editor from 1888 to 1897 and
Honorary Secretary from 1907 to 1932.
A considerable part of ]\'Iiss Sidgwick's book is naturally concerned
with Mrs Sidgwick 's activities in other fields and in particular with
the important work she did in the fomidation and development of
Newnham College. Not only was she Principal of the College from
1892 to 1910, but from the very earhest days of Newnham almost to
the time of her death there was hardly any scheme for the advantage
of the College in which she did not play a leading part. In this
field also, as in j^sychical research, Henry Sidgwick was her constant
collaborator, until his death in 1900.
Several interesting and characteristic quotations are given from
some of her public speeches. At Liverpool in 1896 she said that it
was the privilege of a University to bestow two gifts : one moral
and one intellectual. The moral gift was " the sense of membership
of a worthy community with a high and noble function in which
every member can take part " ; the intellectual gift was the " habit
of reasonable self-dependence in thought and study, to whatever end
thought and study may be directed. I call it reasonable self-depen-
dence, partly to contrast it with the uncritical acceptance of new
ideas ... to which even persons of strong intellectual interests are
liable, if they are given over to miscellaneous reading without ever
having made a thorough study of anything. . . . But I equally wish
to distinguish it from the undue self-confidence and sweeping
dogmatism sometimes seen in persons who have mastered one
subject really well, but have never, by hving and learning among
students who are studying other subjects, imbibed an adequate
sense of the Hmits of their own knowledge." No one exemphfied
the value of these intellectual and moral gifts more completely than
Mrs Sidgwick herself.
Her admirable sense of human values was also shown in the
lecture she dehvered in the early days of the Great War on " The
International Crisis We were fighting, she said, against the
principle that might makes right :
" Do not let us, then, indulge on
our side in the very vices we are condemning. How can we hope to
diminish hatred in the world if we allow ourselves to feel it? . . .
157] Review 189
Hatred is not, except in a very limited way, a source of strength but
a source of weakness, and if we depend on hatred to enable us to
win, we shall lose. . . . The second duty I want to insist on is that
of not being afraid."
There are two dehghtful chapters on Mrs Sidgwick's childhood
and the days before her marriage. It is always difficult to reahse
that j^eople we have only known in later hfe were once, hke ourselves,
very young, and it is pleasant to have ghmpses of Mrs Sidgwick
sitting in a beech tree on a Sunday afternoon, or joining with her
brothers and sisters to initiate guests at Whittingehame into the
Balfour customs, which included conducting them " about the more
precipitous parts of the grounds by night."
The simphcity, not to say austerity, in her personal way of life
which is evident in these early years, remained characteristic of Mrs
Sidgwick to the end. Miss Sidgwick mentions an occasion in 1930
when at the age of eighty-five she travelled alone third class from
Oxford to Dunbar. When she came to the Society's Rooms, she
habitually and in all weathers insisted on departing alone by bus
for Waterloo, and I well remember the surprise, not to say conster-
nation, of the Society's officials, when on a bitterly cold day she and
her sister. Lady Rayleigh (both of them over eighty), appeared in an
open car, because they " hked fresh air ".
It is to be hoped that many members of the Society will read this
book, not only for its interest in relation to psychical research, but
also for the Hght it throws on an outstanding character and person-
ahty, which will always remain a vivid memory to those of us who
were privileged to know and to work with Mrs Sidgwick.
Helen deG. Salter
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 158
WILLIAM McDOUGALL, 1871-1938
By Kenneth Kichmond
Future historians of mental science will either hold WilHam
McDougall in high esteem or leave his name to sink into oblivion. If
the human mind, as represented by scientific thought, conies to the
conclusion that it is an aimless accident in an aimless world, he wiU
merely be one of the old-fashioned thinkers who stood in the way of
that conclusion. The thought of the newer, purposeless thinkers
will have passed him by, on deterministic tram-rails which have the
peculiarity of being laid by men with no intention of arriving any-
where—since intention will be out of court as a real factor in human
procedure.
If, on the other hand, we and the generations that follow us can
put it beyond scientific question that we are something more than
mechanically-determined aggregates of physical and chemical
action, McDougall will stand high among the men of science who
maintained the wider view, and upheld it with detailed and com-
prehensive reasoning. Both in the range of detail, biological and
psychological, that he has brought into the argument on behalf of
purpose, and in the comprehensiveness with which he has marshalled
his material, he has held a place of his own. Men of greater philo-
sophical attainment have built completer structures of reasoning
about the necessity for an acceptance of mind as a directive agent,
but McDougall remains the chief stalwart in his orderly presentation
of facts that strain to bursting-point any of the mechanistic inter-
pretations of Ufe.
His career falls into two divisions, in England until 1920 and in
the United States from then until the end of his life, and the space
L 191
192 Kenneth Eichmond [part
that separates the two phases of his work is not merely geographical.
A Lancastrian by birth and the environment of his boyhood, he
graduated at Cambridge, and took his M.B. at St. Thomas's Hospital,
London. But for his war service as an officer in the E.A.M.C., his
medical training was to be chiefly an adjunct to his general scientific
equipment. His Doctorate was in science. His distinguished
academic work brought him eventually to Oxford as Wilde Reader
in Mental Philosophy. He was elected a Fellow of Corpus Christi
College, Oxford, and of St. John's College, Cambridge. His Fellow-
ship of the Royal Society added honour to a position in the scientific
world which was becoming increasingly evident in the reception of
his pubhshed work.
From his first book, the Introduction to Social Psychology, onwards
throughout his writings, it is clear that his thought as a psychologist
took full account of man regarded as a social creature. This is not
the place to expand the point that a psychology which fails of atten-
tion to the social behaviour of man is an incomplete psychology,
but it is relevant to the appreciation of McDougall's wide humanistic
outlook that he consistently treated mental life as a fact which has
a social context. He also based cogent arguments for the purposive
character of life upon the social behaviour of living beings. Body
and Mind, pubhshed when he was 40, was at once received as a book
of major importance, and has remamed a standard work. In it he
maintained that " not only conscious thinking, but also morpho-
genesis, heredity and evolution, are psycho-physical processes."
Among the evidence for a psychic constitution in man he included
a chapter on psychical research, in which the following passage
occur, on cross-correspondences : "... the keenest critics ofthe view
which sees in these writings the expression of the surviving person-
alities of deceased persons, are driven to postulate as the only
possible alternative explanation of some of them the direct com-
mimication of complex and subtle thoughts between persons
separated by himdreds and even thousands of miles ... we stand
before the dilenxma—survival or telepathy of this far-reaching kind.
The acceptance of either horn of the dilemma is fatal to the mechan-
istic scheme of things."
The mind of primitive man next engaged his attention, and was
the subject of published work. War and war-service intervened ;
and in 1920 he pubhshed The Group Mind, in which social psychology
is extended into the psychology of nations and nationhood. It was
in this year that he accepted the Presidency of the S.P.R. and
dehvered the Presidential address pubhshed in Proceedings, Vol.
XXXI, p. 105. In this he dealt with the common preference of
158] William McDougall, 1871-1938 193
scientists to remain in ignorance of psychical researct, and recog-
nised that they have one motive worthy of respect in the fear of
opening doors to pubhc superstition. But he showed this motive
to be mistaken : proper research was " our best defence " against
superstition ;
" it is the policy of sitting on the lid of the box that
is risky." In personal attitude towards the interpretation of
phenomena he professed himself " very decidedly " of the right wing,
but spoke of the importance and the value of both wings, and of
co-operation between them. The concluding thought m his address,
that what may survive is not merely an individual but a social being,
reflects the shape of his thought in general psychology, and shows
the scientific mind that does not entertain a hypothesis without
taking it in the round.
In this same year, 1920, McDougall was offered, and accepted,
the Professorship of Psychology at Harvard University which hr
held for seven years. His translation to the American scene w&f
followed, at first, by a change in his writings that aroused son*
nusgiving among admirers of his thought. He was adapting himself
to a new audience and a more public environment than that of
English academic life, and his lectures printed in book form showed
a certain loosening of texture. There seemed to be some fear of the
disappearance of a fine psychologist and the emergence of a popular
instructor on human nature and world affairs. But he was mean-
while setthng to business, as was presently shown by the appearance
of two standard works, An Outline of Psychology (1923) and An
Outline ofAbnormal Psychology (1926). These are well enough known
to those who make effective use of the S.P.R. library in making
sure of their psychological groundwork. His Character and the
Conduct of Life (1927) was a popular book in the best sense, and a
valued contribution to the psychology of education. Meanwhile,
his work in experimental psychology included the labour of con-
ducting a prolonged investigation in the biological field, into the
inheritance of acquired characters. His plan of experimental
breeding, which has now been carried on for 17 years and to the
fiftieth generation, has produced important evidence in support of
the neo-Lamarckian view. This is perhaps the most concrete
example of McDougall's way with a scientific dogma of " It can't
happen ". He would go to infinite trouble to make sure of his facts
and then say, " It does happen ".
In 1927 he became Professor of Psychology at Duke University,
and it was under his aegis that the formal study of psychical research
was instituted there with Professor Rhine as director. For all his
positive character, McDougall was not the man to impose his own
194 Kenneth Richmond [part
rule and method upon the growth of younger men's ideas and ex-
perience, and the new institution flourished with its own vitahty
and is fighting its own battles. He was much engaged with con-
structive criticism of the innumerable branchings of psychological
research and theory that are now claiming attention. This work
is hardly represented in his last books, The Fro?itiers of Psychology,
notable for its wide treatment of the interrelation between the
sciences. Psycho-Analysis and Social Psychology, containing a
searching criticism of the validity of Freudian " mechanisms "
without minimising the great value of Freud's discoveries, and
The Riddle of Life, the admirable survey of biological theories which
was reviewed by Mr Tyrrell in the January issue of the Journal?-
But his thought in these last years was much preoccupied by the
dispersion of psychological progress into so many unrelated channels.
He had hoped to see, and to feel that he had played his part in, a
massive unification of ideas in psychology. A lifetime of research
and reasoning had confirmed his conviction that it is vain to build
psychologies upon less than the whole foundation of psychological
fact, and that mental aim and striving constitute a psychological
fact of the first importance. He saw modern psychologies, one after
another, as wasting their energies in the attempt to cram psychical
facts, piecemeal, into a dubious framework of physical causation,
and as missing the structure of sound theory by disregarding facts
essential to structure. It could be said that his last years were
weighted by a feeling of disappointment and frustration, and with
the idea that the comprehensive outlook which he had offered to
the psychological world had been widely refused. But he was no
martyr to the thought, and went stoically on with the maintenance
of his constructive standard and the shrewd criticism of imperfectly-
based theories. Actually, the structure of his psychological thinking
stands more securely in the esteem of men than he thought ; and
as an American colleague has observed, anyone who desires to
eUminate what McDougall found it necessary to assume as to the
nature of living mind should " see to it that he covers the tremendous
range of behavioural facts with which McDougall continually
checked his theory.^
"
We know from the valedictory message that was printed in the
Journal last December ^ that this distinguished authority upon the
mind of man continued to the end of his life to set a high value upon
the contribution that psychical research has made and has to make
1 Vol. XXXI, p. 10.
^ The Psychological Review, Vol. 46, p. 1.
3 Vol. XXX, p. 294. •
158] William McDougall, 1871-1938 195
towards a comprehensive outlook in mental science. Psychical
research workers owe a debt to William McDougall for his life-work
in maintaining that outlook, in preserving the essential nature of
psychology as an open rather than a closed system, and in construct-
ing an open system of psychological thought upon the widest basis
of factual observation.
196 C. V. C. Herbert [part
SHOKT EXPOSURE PHOTOGRAPHS OE A JUMPING MODEL
By C. V. C. Herbert
From time to time photographs appear in the press showing a
medium at a seance in a state of apparent levitation. These are
taken by means of flashlamp bulbs, in some cases the exposure being
made by the medium himself by pressing a switch attached to a
flexible wire. It has been suggested that these pictures iu fact
represent nothing more remarkable than the medium jumpiug from
the ground, to which it has been objected that it would be impossible,
without very special apparatus, to produce a photograph of a jump
which did not show considerable blurring due to the movement of
the figure. At the suggestion of the President, Lord Rayleigh, the
Society produced a series of photographs of a jumping model in
order that comparison could be made with these alleged levitation
pictures.
The procedure was as follows :
—
The model was placed against a black background, as is commonly
the case in the seance room, immediately behind him being a screen
on which horizontal white lines were ruled at 50 centimetre intervals.
The distance between the screen and the model was approximately
60 centimetres, though this naturally varied slightly in different
exposures. The camera was 6 metres away from the model. To the
right of the model was placed the flashlamp, a large approximately
parabolic reflector containing a single " Sashahte " photoflash bulb
(General Electric Co.), the distance from the bulb to the model being
200 centimetres. The model was faintly illuminated by a red
photographic safelight, the exposure being made by means of a tele-
graph key. To the left of the model and included in the field of the
camera was a rotating timing disk, by means of which the length
of exposure could be approximately measured. The exposure was
made on 35-millimetre film (two frames per picture) in a Leitz
" Leica " camera, one operator working the camera shutter and
winding the film, while another changed the flash bulbs, checked
the sj^eed of the timing disk, and made the exposures by visual
inspection by the fight of the red lamp. The exposure times varied
slightly with the different bulbs, but were approximately 1/100
of a second.
In Plate I the model is seen in position before the jump. Plate II
shows the jump in progress, the model's head being about 50 centi-
metres above the position of rest, as shown by the scale of white
fines on the backgroimd. Very fittle movement is discernible. For
PLATE I
PLATE 11
PLATE III
I 'I. ATI-: i\'
PLATE
158] Short Exposure Photographs of a Jumping Model 197
Plate III the model was asked to keep his toes well up during the
jump, resulting in a very easy position in which he seems to be
hanging in mid air with no trace of movement. The exposure here
is shghtly shorter than the average, being a little less than 0-01
second. In Plate IV the model is turned sideways to the camera,
and Plate V shows him with his hands clasped together.
The photographs were all taken on the same day, the results not
being seen until some days later. The operators had had no special
experience in the jjhotography of moving objects, nor was any
special apparatus used, except for the timing disk, the flash bulbs
being those commonly used at seances.
It is suggested that these photographs, especially Plate III, are
freer of movement and more suggestive of genuine levitation than
any of the pubUshed seance-room productions. It is therefore con-
cluded that it would be quite possible to produce the published
pictures by fraudulent means in any case where the flash was ignited
by the medium himself or by an accomphce ;
though this is not, of
course, in any way proof that they were so produced.
The thanks of the Society are due to Mr D. S. Robertson, who
kindly consented to act as model, and to Miss J. Robertson, who
was one of the operators.
Photographic details, and a description of the timing disk are
given in the Appendix.
APPENDIX
Photographic Details :
Lens : Leitz " Elmar :",
f=50 mm. Aperture //5-6.
Distance, figure from Plate, 6 metres.
Distance, figure from background screen, 60 cms. (approx.).
The Plates are enlarged from the negatives ih times hnear.
Negatives on 35-mm. film (two frames per picture) ;
Coating,
Ilford " Selochrome " special fine grain orthochromatic.
Exposure by single flash bulb, unscreened, in large white card-
board reflector. Bulbs, G.E.C. " Sashahte " photoflash, m.s.
fitting, fired by 6-volt (mains transformer) A.C. circuit.
The Timing Disk :
The outer (fixed) scale comprises 100 equal sectors, alternately
black and white. The inner (rotating) disk bears 8 radial arms,
the width of each, where it cuts the scale, being exactly 1/100
of the circumference. The disk is rotated by means of an electric
motor controlled by a centrifugal governor, the speed adjusted to
198 G. V. C. Herbert [part
1 revolution per second by means of a stroboscopic disk illuminated
by a neon tube in tbe 50-cycle circuit. The speed was checked
several times during the course of the work, and was found to be
very constant.
If n be the number of sectors of the fixed scale covered by the
image of one of the radial arms of the rotating scale, the time of
exposure in seconds {E) is given by
100
By examining the image of the disk with the low power of a
microscope, the exposure can be fairly accurately measured.
158] Preliminary Investigation of Platform Clairvoyante 199
A PRELIMINAEY INVESTIGATION OF THE PLATFORM
CLAIRVOYANTE MRS HELEN HUGHES
, By C. V. C. Herbert
Mrs Helen Hughes has estabUshed a considerable reputation as a
platform clairvoyante at public meetings, and she has also a large
practice of private Sittings. In her platform work she is especially
distinguished by giving a large number of names, both Christian
names and surnames, a considerable proportion of which are accepted
as veridical by the recipients of the messages. This frequent occur-
rence of names and the general precision of her messages make
investigation of her powers comparatively easy, and do a good deal
to offset the general difficulties which are always involved in the
study of platform mediums. It is probably true to say that investi-
gation of Mrs Helen Hughes is likely to be more worth while than
that of any other platform clairvoyante who practises at the
present time.
It was therefore felt that the extremely inadequate data relating
to Mrs Hughes, which were aU that the Society's files contained—one
short note by an investigator who had attended one of her pubUc
meetings—ought to be very considerably augmented, and that every
opportunity should be taken of studying her remarkable powers,
and of submitting her claims to supernormal cognition to a critical
analysis.
The procedure at a usual platform demonstration is as follows :
—
The meeting, to which members of the pubhc are admitted free of
charge, begins with a speech by the Chairman, which serves to
introduce the subject in general and Mrs Hughes in particular to
the audience, and gives the medium time to settle down into a state
of receptiveness, or, as some beUeve, of semi-trance. The speech
lasts half an hour or so, and as soon as it is over ]\Irs Hughes begins
her clairvoyant " readings " without further preli minaries. She does
not appear to be in an abnormal state : her voice is her usual voice,
and any condition of trance must be an extremely fight one. It is,
however, recorded that at a recent meeting held last year, ]\Irs Hughes
was seriously affected by a disturbance which was made by a member
of the audience, who was seized with an hysterical attack in the
middle of the meeting. IVIrs Hughes was unable to continue her
performance, and burns or bruises were afterwards found on her
person, caused, it is said, by the sudden shock of the interruption.
The messages are given in two forms. In one, Mrs Hughes ad-
dresses the audience at large and says, for example, " Is there anyone
L2
200 C. V. C. Herbert [part
here called Wilson? ", or "Is there anybody who knew a Doris
Smith V If a response is obtained, further information is then given.
In the second class of message, a specific person is first selected.
The medium says, " I want to come here
—
that lady " (pointing at
a member of the audience). When the person's attention has thus
been secured, the message, generally containing names, is delivered.
If the recipient disclaims the message, it is sometimes found that
it apphes accurately to the person sitting on her right or left hand,
or in the row behind or in front. In nearly every case somebody is
foimd who is understood to accept the message, at any rate in part.
Sometimes Mrs Hughes ends by saying, " Do I know you?" or "could
I have known that normally?" and the recipient generally says,
"No".
Some of the messages do not prove to be acceptable to anyone,
but the general impression obtained by a member of the audience is
that by far the largest proportion are more or less successes. Mrs
Hughes speaks as though her information was obtained by a com-
bination of clairvoyant and clairaudient perception. She " sees
"
figiires " building up " near the various members of the audience
concerned, and she also " hears " messages apparently from an
xmseen figure standing beside her—she sometimes half turns as
though to catch a whispered conversation. The messages are given
very quickly with considerable precision. After some twenty
messages have been delivered, Mrs Hughes complains that the
" power " is running low, and the proceedings come to an end.
At the demonstrations given by the London Spiritualist Alliance,
which body has a monopoly of Mrs Hughes' services, the arrange-
ments are the same, except that the audience is of coiirse much smal-
ler than at the meetings held in a public hall.
There can be no question that the vast majority of the messages
given at these performances are more or less correct. To what is this
correctness due? To chance, to normally acquired knowledge, to
supernatural cognition, or to information imparted to Mrs Hughes
by discarnate spirits? These alternatives can easily be reduced to
two, since chance is clearly not a feasible explanation for such
consistent successes, and we have no means of differentiating with
any degree of certainty between supernormal cognition obtained
through incarnate intelhgences and similar information dictated by
spirits. Our problem, then, is the following : does Mrs Helen
Hughes get her material normally or supernormally? This question
can only be answered by studying exact records of what was said
by the medium, and by obtaining critical statements from the re-
cipients of the messages. Such an inquiry, so easy at an ordinary
158] Prelimmary I^ivestigation of Platform Clairvoyante 201
Sitting, is a formidable task when large numbers of people, many of
whom are members of the public whose names are unknown, are
involved. There is, however, one consolation. By far the most
fruitful source of leakage at an ordinary Sitting—the giving away
by the sitter of vital information in response to " fishing " on the
part of the medium—caimot here be operative to any appreciable
extent. The recipients of messages scarcely speak at all. It is clearly
impossible that Mrs Hughes could get her material by normal means
from the recipients during the meetings. Her information, if nor-
mally acquired, must have been obtained beforehand.
As stated above, Mrs Hughes gives a large number of private
Sittings in addition to her platform work. At these Sittings, no
doubt, much valuable information must be disclosed by the sitters.
Even without any conscious " fishing " on the part of Mrs Hughes,
it is certain that inexperienced and imcritical sitters will infalhbly
tell her a great deal about their private affairs, much of which they
will not afterwards remember that they have disclosed. If Mrs
Hughes is able to remember this material and to associate it with
the sitter's appearance, then, if the sitter ever turns up at a platform
meeting, this information coidd be given back. Many people have
objected that such a process would necessitate a feat of memory on
the part of Mrs Helen Hughes which, in view of the large number
of private Sittings which she gives, is altogether impossible. What
evidence have we that material brought up at a private Sitting is
ever used again after an interval at a platform demonstration?
There is, of course, the difficulty that even if, say, a veridical Aunt
Jane, mentioned at a private Sitting, again put in an appearance
long afterwards at a public meeting, that would be no proof that the
second emergence was based on a memory of the first. It might be
the real Aunt Jane who had communicated on each occasion, or
if the first had been obtained by supernormal cognition from the
sitter's unconscious, the second might represent a similar but un-
related supernormal cognition. It would be just as though the two
Aunt Jane communications had been obtained through different
mediunis.
But by a great piece of good fortune we have a well recorded inci-
dent in which memory, normal or abnormal, of a private Sitting
seems to be the only possible explanation of the facts.
^
It is clear that, in evaluating Mrs Hughes' platform work, we
cannot take into consideration messages given to persons who have
previously had private Sittings with the medium, unless indeed we
have before us a full shorthand record of the private Sittings con-
1 See page 210.
202 V. C. Herbert. [part
cerned and are thus able to tell exactly what information was dis-
closed by the sitter.
The first attempt by the Society to deal critically with one of Mrs
Hughes' jjlatform demonstrations was made in connection with a
public meeting held at the Caxton Hall on October 24, 1938. It was
arranged that a full shorthand note should be taken, and a number
of members of the Society attended the meeting and distributed
themselves about the hall. These members were instructed to
note carefully the people in their vicinity who were given messages,
and, after the meeting was over, to engage some of them in conversa-
tion and to find out if possible—(1) if they had had previous private
Sittings with Mrs Hughes, (2) if they had ever before attended
pubhc meetings, and (3) if their friends or relations were known to
Mrs Hughes or had had private Sittings.
This last point is of great importance as was shown at a previous
attempt of the same kind which was made some time ago by Mrs
Goldney. Mrs Goldney approached a member of the audience at a
pubhc meeting who had received a remarkable message. This
gentleman declared that he had never had a private Sitting with
Mrs Hughes, nor had he previously attended a platform demonstra-
tion. It seemed as though a very striking instance of supernormal
cognition had taken place, as the message was clearly not to be
explained by chance, when a lady who had been sitting near the
recipient entered the conversation and explained that she had
recently attended a private Sitting with Mrs Hughes at which her
friend had been mentioned (she could not remember whether it was
Mrs Hughes or herself who had first introduced the topic of this
friend, nor could she see that this had any bearing on the matter).
What Mrs Hughes had said was that she must be sure to bring the
friend to the platform demonstration, which she accordingly did.
The members of the Society who attended the meeting at the
Caxton Hall were able to interrogate five out of the eighteen persons
who received messages. All five had previously been in contact with
Mrs Helen Hughes.
It had been announced by the Chairman that any recipient of a
message was invited to leave his name and address with the Secretary
of the London Spiritualist Alliance, under whose auspices the meet-
ing was held, so that further particulars could be obtained. The
Alliance very kindly consented to communicate to the Society any
information thus obtained, and also the answers to a questionnaire
embodying the three points mentioned above, which was sent out
to those who left their addresses. The questionnaire asked :
158] Preliminary Investigation of Platform Clairvoyante 203
1 . Have you before attended a public meeting with Mrs Helen Hughes
and received a description from her ? If so, with what results ?
2. Have you ever had a private Sitting with Mrs Hughes ?
3. Have you any friends or relations who have sat with Mrs
Hughes ? ,
The London SpirituaKst Alliance received and communicated to
the Society replies from eight recipients, three of whom had already
been interrogated by our members after the meeting. In all,
therefore, particulars were forthcoming from ten of the eighteen
persons who were given messages. Of these ten, five had had
private Sittings with Mrs Hughes, one was personally known to her,
and one had received the same message at two previous platform
meetings with this medium. The remaining three are therefore all
whose messages we can profitably study in connection with our
problem.
The first whom we will consider is a gentleman who had not
previously sat with Mrs Hughes, though some of his friends had had
Sittings with her. The message is recorded in the shorthand note
as follows :
Mrs Hughes :
" Sir, have you just come or have you ever Hved in
the Lake District ?
"
Recipient :
" Yes ".
Mrs Hughes :
" Just sitting in the seat against you is a lady who
belongs to you. She says, '
Tell him I am here too, but you would
almost think Ehzabeth was comparing the Lake District to London.
Tell him to try again. Get on with your development.' I have to
tell you from Dr Hawke to go on, and not turn back. He says, '
He
is right this time ' ".
The recipient writes as follows :
" She was correct in thinking I came from the Lake District. I
cannot place '
Elizabeth ', but my recollection of that remark was
that I was comparing London to the Lake District, and was advised
to remain where I am, which is to me quite an evidential remark.
I feel sure she said '
Dr Hall ', not ' Dr Hawke ', and that he advised
my going on '
sitting for development ' . This makes sense , as Dr Hall
is a near neighbour, who is interested in these subj ects, and sometimes
discusses them with me. He tells me he knows Mrs Hughes, having
'
sat ' with her in Edinburgh. ... I know no Dr Hawke."
One of the members of the Society who took longhand notes gives
the salient features of the message as " Lake District, Elizabeth,
Dr. Hall." This supports the recipient's view that it was Hall and
not Hawke that Mrs Hughes said.
204 C. V. C. Herbert [part
There was here the obvious possibihty that normal leakage might
have taken place through Dr Hall, who knew Mrs Hughes and had
sat with her in Edinburgh. Through the kindness of Miss Philli-
more, the secretary of the London Spirituahst Alliance, I was given
permission to write to the recipient in order to obtain more evidence
on this point. He answered as follows :
" Thank you for your letter about Mrs Helen Hughes, which I was
only waiting to answer till I heard from Dr Hall.
He has now given me a definite denial of ever mentioning my name
to her—as I knew he would. He is not my doctor, and I do not know
him intimately, but occasionally I have been able to lend him books
on these subjects, of which I have a great many."
How, then, was Mrs Hughes able to associate this recipient with
the Lake District, and to connect him with Dr Hall? Chance
coincidence is obviously out of the question. Out of a large audience
it is unthinkable that Mrs Hughes could select someone at random
and could by luck correctly place him as connected with the Lake
District, to say nothing of Dr. Hall. The only normal explanation
would seem to be that some other friend of the recipient had in a
Sitting with Mrs Hughes conveyed the information that a person
connected with the Lake District and with Dr Hall was hkely to
attend the meeting. But it must be noted that the information
would have to be sufficiently detailed to enable Mrs Hughes to
recognise the recipient, whom she had never seen, and to identify
him from out of a large audience in a pubHc hall. This seems to
be highly unlikely.
In our next case the recipient was not selected by Mrs Hughes,
but responded to a question addressed to the audience at large.
The recipient had had no previous connection with Mrs Hughes, but
she has been a spiritualist for the last fifty years, so there is certainly
a possibihty that she may have been recognised. The shorthand
report is as follows :
Mrs Hughes :
" There is an old gentleman here named Levi.
Anyone know him ?
"
Recipient :
" I know Levi ".
Mrs Hughes :
" There is something strange for him, but he is
standing with you. He says, '
Levi is here ', and someone called
John too. Have you been suffering lately ? Do you know what
Levi says ? Levi says, '
Tell Nellie we have helped to pull her
round '. You have been suffering all over your body. Levi says
'
Tell Nelhe she is all right in our hands, and we will not fail her '.
Do you belong to Bournemouth ?
"
Recipient :
" I know Bournemouth ".
158] Preliminary Investigation of Platform Clairvoyante 205
Mrs Hughes :
" There is a lady standing with you who belongs to
Bournemouth ".
Recipient :
" Yes ".
Mrs Hughes :
" Dr Gilbert and Mrs Meddleson ".
Recipient :
" Yes ".
Mrs Hughes :
" Did she spend her hohdays with you ?
"
Recipient :
" Often ".
Mrs Hughes :
" She spends her hoHdays now over here which is
much better. Now I hate to say this to you. . . . Have you
twins ?
"
Recipient :
" No ".
(Another member of the audience said, " She is a twin ".)
Mrs Hughes :
" Thank you. Did you know the Wolff family ?
"
Recipient :
" Yes, very well indeed ".
Mrs Hughes : "I have to say, '
Tell her we want to let her know
we can speak to her ! Don't worry about your health wiU you ?
"
Recipient :
" No, I won't, thank you ".
The recipient's Christian name is Nellie. She disclaims " John ",
and " Dr Gilbert ", but knows Levi, Mrs Mendelssohn (given as
" Meddleson ") and the Wolff family. As regards the latter, she
notes :
" The lady next to me ... is one of twins . . . her father's
name was Wolf." This lady was herself the recipient of a message.
She is well known to Mrs Hughes and had had private Sittings.
This naturally tends to invalidate the allusions to twins and to the
Wolff family, as Mrs Hughes may well have known these facts about
the lady sitting next to the recipient. There is also the possibility
that Mrs Hughes may have identified the recipient as a friend of this
lady whom she knew.
The third case is certainly the best, the gentleman in question
never having attended a spiritualistic meeting before, and being
quite unconnected with Mrs Hughes. He says that some of his
relations had been interested in the spiritualist movement, but that
none knew Mrs Hughes.
The message was as follows :
Mrs Hughes :
" Sir, did you know anyone called Bromwell ?
Mr and Mrs Bromwell have come to your side ... or is it Bramwell ?
Not a relation, but knew you as a boy. They say, '
Ask him if he
knew a policeman '.
He says, '
Will you tell him Jack is here ', and
as Jack comes along, I can just see him as if he has taken a hat from
his head and placed it on your knee. He says, '
I want you to know
we have a happy home here and one day you will enter therein '.
I am touching a soul who was very doubtful, wondering if life went
on or not. Jack, Renie, Annie and Sam want you to know it is all
true. Do you know Douglas ? Or, you are Douglas ? Renie says,
'
Don't forget I am helping my boy and helping you ' ".
206 C. V. C. Herbert [part
The recipient's annotations are as follows :
" I cannot recall the name of Bromwell, but knew several Bromleys
who have passed over. I also had a nephew who served in the police
force. Rene was my late wife, Jack our dear doggie who survived
her by six months. Sam was an old friend, and Annie, although
alive, I believe, his wife. Regret that I cannot fix Douglas. The
boy mentioned is my son."
In answer to further inquiries the recipient says that Annie, the
wife of Sam, is still living, but that this Annie's mother, who was also
called Annie, and was the recipient's Aunt, is dead, so it may be that
it was she who was intended.
There are, of course, several discrepancies. If the Jack men-
tioned was intended for the dog, he can hardly have been seen to
" (take) a hat from his head and (place) it on (the recipient's) knee."
And he can certainly not have made the speech, " I want you to
know we have a happy home here and that one day you will enter
therein ", of which Jack seems to have been the author. Nor is
" Ask him if he knew a pohceman " a very direct way of " getting
over " that the recipient's nephew had served in the police force.
But for all that there are some striking things in the message. Renie
is not a common name, and although Sam and Annie are very usual,
they are by no means certain hits.
Bromwell or Bramwell for Bromley is not so good, and Douglas is a
misfire. In all we have Renie, Sam, Annie, Bromwell or Bramwell,
Jack and Douglas ; six names, of which Renie, Sam and Annie are
correct, Bromwell is partly correct, Jack is significant but incorrect
in the context, and Douglas is wrong. There is also the attribution
of a son to Renie, which is correct. All this would certainly appear
to be above chance expectation, and it is very difficult to see how
under the circumstances there can have been any normal leakage.
Our examination of this meeting at the Caxton Hall shows that a
large majority of the recipients of messages have had previous con-
tact with Mrs Hughes—generally in the form of private sittings ; and
that of the three cases examined, where no contact could be found,
two certainly provide a prirna facie case for supernormal cogni-
tion. It is impossible to say more ; but there can be no doubt that
the investigation proves the desirability of further research into Mrs
Hughes' platform work.
On the occasion of a private platform demonstration given by Mrs
Hughes at the London Spirituafist Alliance on December 1st, 1938,
the Alliance suggested to the Society that we might combine with
158] Preliminary Investigation of Platfm~m Clairvoyante 207
them to share the cost of taking a shorthand note, it being agreed
that names and addresses should be taken of the recipients of mes-
sages, and a questionnaire sent out as before, the rephes received to
be communicated to the Society. We were naturally very glad to
avail ourselves of this kind offer.
At this meeting 19 messages were given, and 14 recipients left their
names and addresses. But of the 14 only eight repUed to our en-
quiries. Three of these had had previous private Sittings, leaving us
5 cases for examination.
One of these is so slender that it is not necessary for me to quote it
in detail. The name Harold was given which was significant for the
recipient's deceased brother, but the recipient did not think at the
time that the message was intended for him at all.
Our second example is also weak. Mrs Hughes said :
" Is there anyone who knows a young man who was killed by aero-
plane ?
"
Recipient :
" Yes ".
Mrs Hughes :
" Eric. I see a beautiful picture of where he is, I
wish I could show it to you—he has got a plane—Eric (or Ulrich)
passed out under those conditions, but he is back to tell you he is
still going on, and he says '
Tell her I am working hard with
scientific researches '. Are you sitting for development at all 1
"
Recipient :
" Not now. I have been ".
Mrs Hughes : "I am very sorry to hear you have given it up, be-
cause you are in touch with Eric and with many other souls, and I
know you could do a lot of good if you would just give way ".
Recipient : "I have communicated with him ".
Mrs Hughes :
" You could have gone on further. Eric is very
excited because he can come to you ".
The name Eric is correct for a near relative of the recipient who
was killed in an aeroplane accident. It must be noted that Mrs
Hughes began by asking if there was anybody who knew a young
man killed by aeroplane ; but the name Eric was added after the
recipient had rephed. But there are obviously loopholes for normal
leakage here.
The following case is rather better :
Mrs Hughes :
" There is a gentleman standing at my side : does
anyone know old Mr Jackson ?
"
Recipient :
" Yes ".
Mrs Hughes :
" He is rather an elderly gentleman and suffered
very much with chest trouble, this is what he has shown. It was
not altogether the chest, it was the heart, he has come along and
says, will I tell you that both Mr and Mrs Jackson have come along
208 C. V. C. Herbert [part
to see you, and especially did Mrs Jackson know you in your
younger days. Just today in your home you would utter these
words, ' If only those you loved and who belonged to you could come
back to speak, you would be content and convinced.' I want you
to be convinced that Mr and Mrs Jackson have come along to you
tonight. Will you tell me, did you post a parcel for someone, if it
was not for yourself, it has gone abroad ? Do you know if old
Jackson lived abroad ?
"
Recipient :
" No ".
Mrs Hughes :
" He is showing me something of someone abroad,
he even speaks of the house he Hved in, and is saying, '
Tell her I
have met Mary over here and she is not to give way in Ufe '. He
means you. Madam. There have been times when you have said
these words, '
Is there anything left to live for ?
'
I have got to say
'
Yes '. Mrs Jackson wants to reassure you, there is a lot to live for
if you will only remember they are with you instead of being lost
and gone from you for ever. Did you know an old lady who was
burned, there is something wrong with her hand ? I do not know
whether it was in her late days, or when she was younger, but her
hand was scalded. Is there anyone belonging to you named Lizzie
in spirit, an Aunt ? William is with her, would you know that,
Wilham ?
"
Recipient : "I would '".
Mrs Hughes :
" It is Lizzie who has brought him, and her arm was
burned. Mr and Mrs Jackson ask me will I convey their grateful
thanks to you, and be sure to look up to them when you are needing
help ".
The recipient writes that she knew a Lizzie, not an Aunt, who had
a brother called " Willie ", but that they had no connection with Mr
and Mrs Jackson, who were the recipient's Aunt and Uncle. They
lived in Ireland and she saw very little of them, but more in her
younger days, as stated in the message. As to Mary, Mrs Jackson has
a daughter of that name still living, but there may have been a de-
ceased relation of the Jacksons called Mary. The recipient did not
know many of the family which was large. She knew nothing about
Lizzie's scalded hand. The recipient says, " I don't know anything
about the parcel abroad—but I did make a similar remark about ' If
only those you loved, etc'
"
Here the recipient, having claimed " Old Mr Jackson ", was given
the additional information that she had known the Jacksons better
in her young days, which was true ; and it was also suggested that
Mr Jackson Hved abroad. To this the recipient said, " No " ; but in
fact the Jacksons lived in Ireland, so it was not far wrong. She was
then given, as associated with the Jacksons, a Lizzie who was said to
be her Aunt and who was with William. The recipient had known a
158] Prelimiimry Investigation of Platfot'm Clairvoyante 209
Lizzie who had a brother called Willie, but she was not her aunt and
had no connection with the Jacksons, whereas Mrs Jackson was the
recipient's aunt. As the names Lizzie and Willie are far from un-
common, it is not too much to suggest that chance might be respon-
sible for the partial successes which Mrs Hughes scored in this
message.
The next recipient had attended a public meeting with Mrs Hughes,
but had not received a message before. Apart from this there was
no connection. Mrs Hughes said :
" Are you carrying something,
either a cross or something in your bag that is gold ?
"
The recipient had in her bag a silver cross which had belonged to
her deceased brother. She had brought it on purpose in the hope of
getting a message. The name Alec was given correctly for the com-
municator, and also the name Helena as for the recipient herself.
This is striking as even if the recipient had taken the cross out of her
bag during the meeting, and Mrs Hughes had seen it, that would not
explain the correctness of the names.
The last case is the most evidential so far as names are concerned.
Mrs Hughes mentioned Annie, Mrs Villma or Gihna, Katey Smith,
Mrs Smith, Daisy, Mr French and Mrs French. The recipient says
that Annie, Katey Smith, and Daisy are her deceased sisters. Mrs
Smith is her mother. She knows no one called Villma or Gilma, but
remembered afterwards that she had known a Dr French. (French
was mentioned as being a Doctor or a Dentist).
Here again we have at least one message which provides a prima
facie case for supernormal cognition. It is hoped that by repeating
our procedure at future demonstrations, something more positive
may be forthcoming, and we have therefore arranged with the Lon-
don SpirituaUst AlUance that a shorthand note shall be taken at both
of two demonstrations which they are holding in February. The
ideal arrangement, of course, would be to have a special meeting at
which the entire audience was made up of people who had had no
previous contact with Mrs Hughes. But owing to the great demand
for Mrs Hughes' services, this is by no means easy to arrange. In the
meantime, it does not seem that we can do better than to continue
to collect evidence in the way that I have described.
The thanks of the Society are due to Miss Phillimore and the Lon-
don Spiritualist Alliance for their kind co-operation ; to those mem-
bers of the Society who lent their services on the occasion of the
meeting at the Caxton Hall, and especially to Mrs K. M. Goldney ;
and to Lord Charles Hope, who generously paid the costs of the
shorthand writers.
210 K. M. Goldney [part
A CASE OF PURPORTED SPIRIT-COMMUNICATION DUE
ACTUALLY TO SUB-CONSCIOUS OR TRANCE MEMORY
POWERS.
By K. M. Goldney
Report of a clairvoyant spirit-message ^ given by Mrs Helen Hughes
(medium) on February 10, 1938 at a Meeting held at the London
Spiritualist Alliance, 16 Queensberry Place, London, S.W. 7.
Preliminary Statement
Mrs Helen Hughes lives in the provinces (County Durham), but
comes to London two or three times a year and gives both public
Meetings and private Sittings under the auspices of the London
Spiritualist Alliance. I have attended at various times about a
dozen of such public Meetings.
Mrs Hughes has an extremely charming personality, and personal
contact with her will confirm, I consider, an initial judgment of
complete integrity. Her clairvoyant powers at public meetings are,
prima facie, very remarkable. Whilst giving the messages on such
occasions, the medium appears to be in a condition of semi-trance ;
but in private sittings she also attains a condition of deep trance.
Her platform work would appear to be particularly suited to psychical
research, inasmuch as she gives specific names (both Christian and
surnames), dates, place names, etc. ; and it was I who urged upon
the Research Officer the desirability of endeavouring to bring about
the joint investigation of which the initial stages are here reported.
The disadvantage of public Meetings, which all attending them
must feel, is the unlikelihood in the packed hall of obtaining a message
oneself, and the impossibility of evaluating the messages given by
the medium to others. Since I had never myself received a message
in these circumstances, and with the object of finding a case which
would bear the strictest scrutiny, I started some four years ago to
question a few persons who had received striking messages, and was
disappointed to find that each person so questioned happened to have
had, at some time or other, a private sitting with the medium or had
a relative or friend who had had private sittings. In no instance, and
on no occasion, was I lucky enough to find a person who had had no
1 The terms " spirit-message ", " trance ", " communicator ", etc., etc. are
used for convenience in a general and recognised sense, and their use does not
necessarily entail any specific belief regarding them.
158] A Case of Purported Spirit-Communication 211
contact whatsoever, themselves or through relatives or friends, with
the medium.
It is natural enough that the audience on these occasions should be
chiefly made up of those already interested in SpirituaUsm and their
friends, and natural also that members of the audience should have
made a point of havmg a private sitting with a remarkable medium.
Further, the fact that they had had a private sitting in no way
PROVES that a subsequent spirit-message at a public Meeting can
be explained away. Nevertheless the lack of any training in research
methods makes the average person a hopelessly bad " sitter ", and it
would be extremely difficult to establish a claim to para-normality
where the receiver of a message at a public Meeting had previously
had a private Sitting with the medium at which verbatim notes had
not been made. The reader may usefully remember Sir Oliver
Lodge's dictum (Survival of Man, 10th edition, p. 189) that " hyper-
scepticism is more conducive to the development of the subject than
hyper-credulity ".
After attending a certain number of public Meetings, I decided to
have a private sitting myself with Mrs Helen Hughes. During this
Sitting—the only one I have had with her—I carried out an experi-
ment which proved to have interesting results.
Private {Trance) Sitting with Mrs Helen Hughes [boohed anonymously)
May 15, 1936 at the London Spiritualist Alliance.
At this trance Sitting I myself took down shorthand notes of what
was said : not verbatim notes, but notes of all the names given and
any important rejoinders made by myself, etc. My notes were typed
out and filed after the Sitting.
The Sitting was entirely negative ;
although I have had some
strikingly good sittings, I am by no means a consistently good sitter
and this was possibly the worst sitting I had ever had. My notes
show that 28 (or more) names were given, only three of which cor-
responded by chance with names of deceased persons who had been
known to me (a remarkably small number even for chance !) and the
relationship of these three was not correctly given.^ Towards the
end of this hopeless Sitting I decided to make an experiment (see
forward).
' I was forcibly reminded of Myer's description of Mrs Piper's Control,
Phinuit {Proc. S. P. R. Vol. VI, p. 440) :
" There were some interviews through-
out which Phinuit hardly asked any questions and hardly stated anything
which was not true. There were others throughout which his utterance
showed not one glimmer of real knowledge, but consisted wholly of . . . random
assertions ".
212 K. M. Goldney [part
Meeting for Clairvoyance given by Mrs Helen Hughes at the London
Sfiritualist Alliance on February 10, 1938.
At the time of my private Sitting (May 15, 1936), I do not think
Mrs Hughes can have known me by sight. Following this private
Sitting and the experiment made during it, I made a point of speak-
ing to Mrs Hughes without an introduction on the few available
occasions of her visits to London, but by February 1938 I think it
probable she knew my name : in any case she knew me well enough
to recognise and greet me in passing.
On February 10, 1938 I attended a packed Meeting at the London
Spiritualist AlHance, at which Mrs Hughes was giving clairvoyance.
I sat far back in the large room beside my friend Mrs R. During the
Meeting Mrs Hughes pointed to Mrs R., and the following conversa-
tion took place (approximate rendering).
Mrs Hughes :
" Now I want THAT lady " (pointing). Mrs R.
held up her hand. " Yes, that's right, I want you. There is some-
one here who has come for you : BESSIE—wait—(apparently
hstening to a spirit communicator)—BESSIE WHITE. Do you
know BESSIE WHITE ?
"
Mrs R. :
" No I don't ; I can't think of anyone of that name ".
Mrs Hughes :
" That's funny. BESSIE WHITE—are you sure
you don't know her ? No ; wait ; it is not for you but for the lady
sitting next to you ". / then held up jh?/ hand. " Yes, that's right.
Bessie White is here for you. Do you recognise her 1
"
K. M. Goldney : (After a shght pause) " Yes ; I understand that
name ".
Mrs Hughes :
" BESSIE WHITE—and ALEC—ALEC WHITE.
Do you know him too ?
"
K. M. Goldney :
" Yes ; I understand that also ".
As Mrs Hughes gave the name BESSIE WHITE to me, my mind
flashed back to my ^^rivate Sitting with her of a year and nine months
previously. What I dimly remember justified me, I felt, in claiming
" I understood " the names given. Nevertheless I had no knowledge
of any Bessie White or Alec White in actual fact, nor any clear
memory of having heard the names before.
On returning home I immediately looked up the file containing the
notes of my private Sitting of May 15, 1936 and read the following
commentary, which I had attached to these notes :
Sitting with Mrs Helen Hughes {boohed anonymously) May 15, 1936.
" I had been told (Mrs Hughes) was not so good at private Sittings
(as at public Meetings), but determined to have one with her. The
attached summary was made from shorthand notes taken at the
158] A Case of Purported Spirit-Communication 213
time ... by myself. When I saw what rubbish was coming through,
I determined towards the end of the Sitting to give false recognition
to a set of names, in order to see whether these would later be given
back to me at a pubhc Meeting. I intended to go to such and
possibly speak to Mrs Hughes {i.e. draw attention to my presence
at the Meeting) with this in view. At a given point in the Sitting
—
THE WHITE FAMILY—I begin to reply as if the communicators
were real and the names veridical ".
(That is to say, I claimed recognition of the names and relationship
given to me by the medium, although in fact the names were un-
known to me.)
Turning then to the given point in my summarised, shorthand notes
at which I claimed this recognition, I found this :
Mrs Hughes :
" BESSIE WHITE is here. Was she a relative ?
"
K. M. GoLDNEY :
" Yes ".
Mrs Hughes :
" Has Mrs White got her son with her ?
"
K. M. GoLDNEY :
" Yes ".
Mrs Hughes :
" All the White family are here—ALEC WHITE ".
K. M. Goldney :
" I didn't know him myself—I knew of him ".
(Note : The conversation is given in my notes in summarised form :
it must be understood that at the time I indulged in a certain
amount of dramatisation, suitable to the experiment.)
A description was given by the medium of Mrs White's sudden
death by burning. Mrs White then purported to control the medium
and communicate directly herself, saying she was doing so for the
first time. She spoke with a strong Scotch accent (I had previously
agreed with the medium that I had Scotch relations). Her talk was
that of a farmer's wife and she spoke of farming conditions, remind-
ing me of a lambing season we had spent together in Scotland (I had
never been in Scotland at that time, know nothing of farming or
country conditions, and have no Scotch relations except on a grand-
mother's side some four generations or so back).^
Commentary
When making my experiment on May 15, 1936, I wondered
whether the false information I was giving and the remarks I was
^ The reader is again referred to the similarity here to the trance Control of
Mrs Piper (Rector) ; and his acceptance of misleading suggestions by the
sitter. " Rector ", says Sir Oliver Lodge, (Survival of Man, p. 216) "... is
evidently in the position of receiving ideas by a sort of dictation, and need not
always be able clearly to discriminate their som-ce, whether from the ultra-
material or from the material side ". Experimental observations of this sort
may prove to be of the utmost importance in leading us eventually to an under-
standing of the trance state.
214 K. M. Goldney [part
making to Mrs Hughes whilst she was in a trance would be given
back to me at some pubhc Meeting in the near future in the form of a
spirit-message. I attended each subsequent Meeting she gave in
London and drew attention to my presence by greeting her where
possible, but no message came. By February 1938 I had forgotten
all the details of my private sitting—^had almost forgotten, indeed,
the whole experiment—and only the echo of a memory was stirred
when the names BESSIE WHITE and ALEC WHITE were given
to me. The lapse of time had wiped away all conscious memory of
the meaningless details and names given at my private Sitting, and
only reference to my files showed that names I had claimed as veri-
dical out of a large number of unrecognised names twenty-one
months previously coincided with those given me again so long after.
Mrs Hughes is a very busy and successful medium, booked up (she
has told me) for months, even years, ahead. On referring to an
official at the London SpirituaUst Alhance, I was told that she gave
usually 16 private Sittings a week whilst in London, (their rule being
that no medium should give more than three Sittings a day) ; and
that if one reckoned an average of 15 Sittings a week for 10 months
of the year, it would probably be a fairly accurate surmise (the other
two months being free from Sittings on account of holidays, days
spent in travelling, occasional sickness, etc., etc. This would of
course exclude any unusual year of sickness, which would curtail the
number of Sittings given in a year.)
At the rate of 15 Sittings a week for 10 months of the year, we can
suppose that Mrs Hughes gave, very roughly, some 1,000 or 1,100
Sittings between the dates of May 1936 and February 1938 (this
allows four or five months free of Sittings and sixteen or seventeen
months' work out of the twenty-one months).
At my Sitting she produced 28 names. If this can be considered
normal, 1,100 Sittings would produce some 30,000 names.^ A large
part of Mrs Hughes' Ufe is spent going from one town to another
giving public Meetings and private Sittings to a succession of anony-
mous or seldom-seen Sitters. Yet in the semi-trance condition per-
taining during her clairvoyance, one almost a stranger to her could
be correctly given names for which significance had been falsely
claimed 21 months before at a single Sitting. This, I consider, goes
far beyond any feat of normal memory, and constitutes an example
of the striking possibilities of trance memory, presumably akin to
the feats of memory (if such it can be called) pertaining to the hyp-
notic state.
1 Weeks containing public meetings would probably somewhat increase the
weekly quota of sitters but decrease the weekly reckoning of names.
158] A Case of Purported Spirit-Communication 215
In making this experiment I had in mind similar experiments made
by Sir OUver Lodge and Richard Hodgson with Mrs Piper, " in
order to see what effect on the medium's trance mind was produced
by a carelessness or untrustworthiness of Sitters themselves ". For
example, Professor E. C. K. Gonner, Lecturer on Economics at
University College, Liverpool, and a colleague of Sir Oliver (then
Professor) Lodge, was purposely introduced to Mrs Piper as Mr
McCunn, another colleague, in order to test the effect on the medium's
trance mind. The significant result justifies the means, and I have
httle doubt that Mrs Hughes herself and students of psychical re-
search will have the good sense to recognise the legitimacy of such
an experiment, provided one is careful to appraise it at its due value
and no more.
Conclusion
It should be unnecessary to point out that the demonstrated fact
that Mrs Hughes can store in her sub-conscious mind the minutest
details concerning a Sitter and reproduce these months, possibly
years, later, does NOT invalidate the hypothesis and claim that she
obtains clairaudient messages from the dead. Such a conclusion
would be quite unjustified. Here again we can apply to Mrs Hughes's
trance the attributes ascribed by Sir Oliver Lodge to Mrs Piper's
Control (Phinuit) when he writes :
" The attitude is ... as of one
straining every clue and making use of the slightest indication,
whether received in normal or abnormal ways ;
not, indeed, dis-
tinguishing between information received from the Sitter and in-
formation from other sources ". {Proc. S. P. R. Vol. XI, p. 449).
The conclusions we are justified in making can be summarised as
follows :
(1) The experiment undertaken would appear to demonstrate
the possession by this medium (and presumably by others) of sub-
liminal powers of memory in the trance or semi-trance state quite
beyond the possibilities of conscious memory. As a result it renders
null and void the contention often put forward by those unaware of
such subhminal powers that it is " absurd " to suppose that a medium
can remember facts concerning the hundreds of Sitters she sees in a
year.
(2) Admitting that these possibly limitless powers of memory are
in force during trance or partial-trance conditions, it becomes
obvious that if we are to test the spiritualist hypothesis, only
definite research work under test conditions is of value, and Meetings
should be arranged of selected Sitters NONE of whom have had any
216 K. M. Goldney [part
contact whatever, direct or indirect (through friends or relations),
with the medium, and all of whom are willing to annotate, and
answer questions regarding, the material given them with the object
of obtaining positive results.
As I have already stated, I consider Mrs Hughes's powers remark-
able, and with patience and perseverance—modifying one's pro-
cedure in the hght of experience gained by experiment and practice
—
I have every hope that we shall obtain conclusive results.
158] Review 217
REVIEW
Adventures in Psychical Research by C. E. M. Joad. Harper's Maga-
zine, June 1938.
Dr Joad is the Chairman of the London University Council for
Psychical Investigation, the Head of the Department of Philosophy
and Psychology at Birkbeck College, and a well-known writer on
philosophical subjects.
It is therefore natural that an account of his personal experiences
as an investigator of psychic phenomena should attract considerable
attention and deserve serious consideration. Dr Joad begins his
article as follows :
" Let me begin by stating my credentials. I have
had at different times a certain amount of firsthand experience of
what I will non-committally call abnormal phenomena. This ex-
perience has been due largely to the facilities afforded in London by
the National Laboratory of Psychical Research ..." " By the
courtesy of the Director of the Laboratory, Mr Harry Price, ... I
have had the advantage of sitting with a number of well-known
mediums and have witnessed at different times a considerable num-
ber of varied phenomena."
" Before I proceed to a description of some of the phenomena I
have witnessed I had better state my behefs in order that the reader
may be in a position to discount my bias."
From the above sentences it would appear that all the occurrences
mentioned by Dr Joad in this article are described as having oc-
curred imder his personal observation, and this impression is con-
firmed by the frequent use throughout the article of the first personal
singular and plural. The occurrences described all relate to what are
known as " physical " phenomena, a branch of psychical research in
which it is notorious that the debate as to what in fact happened has
always been particularly acute, and accordingly first-hand accounts
of competent observers are of the greatest value. Sittings with four
mediums are described. With one of them, Eva C, Dr Joad had a
sitting or sittings at the Institut Metapsychique in Paris. The other
three mediums named in the article are Mrs Duncan, Rudi Schneider
and Eleanore Ziigun. Very full records of the investigation of these
three mediums at the National Laboratory have been pubhshed by
218 Review [PABT
Mr Harry Price, either in the Proceedings and Bulletins of the
National Laboratory or in book form.^
On comparing Dr Joad's accounts of these mediums with the very
full accounts given by Mr Harry Price, the student cannot fail to be
struck with several discrepancies of the kind which have in the past
made the study of physical phenomena so problematical. To take
first the case of the Duncan mediumship ; after mentioning that
Mrs Duncan was investigated for some time at the National Labora-
tory of Psychical Research, Dr Joad proceeds to describe various
incidents in a very positive manner and in terms which, taken in
conjunction with the sentences quoted at the beginning of this re-
view, appear to indicate that Dr Joad was a witness of what he
describes. He writes, for example, " One could put out one's hand
and touch the stuff [i.e. ectoplasm], which felt hke the white of a
hard-boiled egg and was faintly luminous. The whole performance
was extraordinarily impressive, and for a time a number of us were
inclined to '
beheve '
It was an X-ray photograph which put
us on the track of this deception. One day we photographed Mrs
Duncan ... On no other occasion have I seen ectoplasm."
But the 1931 Bulletin, " Regurgitation and the Duncan Medium-
ship ", in the account of each of the five sittings held with Mrs
Duncan at the National Laboratory, gives a list of all the persons
said to have been present at each sitting, and on no occasion does Dr
Joad's name appear in these hsts. Later in the same Bulletin (App.
C, p. 105), there is printed a " List of Sitters who examined the
Duncan Manifestations ". This gives the names of 27 persons pre-
sent at one or more of the sittings and again Dr Joad's name does not
appear. In addition to the persons named, the hst mentions, with-
out naming them, the presence of an analyst, an obstetrician, and a
physician, but there is nothing to suggest that Dr Joad, who we be-
lieve does not hold any of the requisite qualifications, was one of
these three specialists, nor is his name to be found in the index.
Either therefore both the lists of observers at separate sittings and
also App. C. of this Bulletin are incomplete, or Dr Joad was not pre-
sent at the Duncan sittings which he describes. If the latter be the
true explanation, the language he uses in describing them is certainly
1 " A Report on the Telekinetic and other Phenomena witnessed through
Eleanore Ziigun." Proceedings of the N.L.P.R., Vol. I (Part 1), January 1927.
" Regurgitation and the Duncan Mediumship." Bulletin of the N.L.P.R.,
1931.
" Rudi Schneider ", by Harry Price. (Methuen, 1930.)
" An Account of some Further Experiments with Rudi Schneider."
Bulletin IV of the N.L.P.R., 1933.
158] Review 219
unfortunate. For example, the sentence " On no other occasion
have I seen ectoplasm ", with which he concludes his account of the
Duncan sittings, can hardly be interpreted otherwise than as an
assertion that at one of the Duncan sittings at the National Labora-
tory he did see ectoplasm.
There are also minor discrepancies between Dr Joad's and Mi
Harry Price's accounts of the Duncan mediumship. When Dr Joad
speaks of Mrs Duncan " by some means getting her hands free from
the silken sack in which she was encased ", he has failed to under-
stand the nature of the one-piece garment, having sleeves and
" gloving " the hands, which the medium wore at the sittings ; as
there would be no need for her to free them from this garment in
order to use her hands to manipulate ectoplasm as suggested. Then
again, Dr Joad writes " One day we photographed Mrs Duncan.
This of course was done with her consent but—a fact to which she
did not consent because she did not know of it—one of the photo-
graphs was an X-ray photograph, and this showed a small safety-
pin, cosily nestling in the middle of Mrs Duncan's inside ". This
apparently refers to what occurred at the ith seance on the 28th
May 1931, the only occasion when an X-ray photograph was either
attempted or carried out. The incident is described at some length
on pp. 61-63 of the Bulletin. After stating (p. 61) that the medium's
husband consented to his wife being X-rayed, but that she was un-
easy at the preparations being made for the X-ray, the Bidletin con-
tinues (p. 62) " and then the unexpected happened, Mrs Duncan
demanded that she should be X-rayed ! Although we knew it would
now be useless, we consented, as the equipment had taken half a day
to instal and there was just a very remote possibility that something
might be revealed.
" So the medium was X-rayed after all, Dr Wilham Brown being
present. We made three radiographs, one of the abdomen, one of the
chest or thorax, and one of the skull (reproduced Plate XXV). They
were developed immediately after and no abnormaUties can be de-
tected. In any case, the depth of the medimn would preclude any
anatomical pecuharities from reveahng themselves. As a matter of
fact, the radiographs of the abdomen and thorax are merely blurs."
Nothing is said about any safety-pin.
As regards the phenomena of Rudi Schneider the problems raised
by Dr Joad's article are rather different. Dr Joad writes, " the most
remarkable of these phenomena [meaning apparently telekinesis]
which I have seen was connected with the Austrian medium Rudi
Schneider. ... In seances lasting over two separate years Rudi pro-
duced, under strictly controlled conditions, remarkable phenomena.
220 Review [PAET
Of these perhaps the most outstanding seen by me was the raising of
a handkerchief without visible agency into the air where it tied itself
into a knot."
Dr Joad does not specifically state where the Rudi Schneider seances,
to which he refers, took place, but in view of the sentences quoted at
the beginning of this review it is a natural inference that, imless there
is a definite statement to the contrary, he is throughout his article
speaking of seances at the National Laboratory, and that the phrase
" seances lasting over two separate years " is meant to indicate the
two series of seances held at the National Laboratory from April 1929
to January 1930, described in Mr Price's book " Rudi Schneider ",
and from February to May 1932, described in Bulletin IV of the
National Laboratory. From Mr Price's book and this Bulletin it
would appear that Dr Joad was present at one sitting in each of these
two series, namely that of November 25th 1929 and that of February
23rd 1932, the latter being described in the Bulletin as a negative
sitting. Of the sitting on November 25th 1929, on the other hand,
the report in Mr Price's book (pp. 75-88) says, " the latter portion of
it was brilhant ". In addition to the report given in the book, which
consists of a transcription of what was dictated into a dictaphone
during the sitting, there is reproduced ra the book an account con-
tributed by Dr Joad himself to the Press the day after the sitting.
Neither the official record of the sitting, nor Dr Joad's contribution
to the Evening Standard, (26th Nov. 1939) contains any reference to
this very strikmg incident of the handkerchief, although several
other phenomena are mentioned as having occurred at the sitting
in question.
Dr Joad continues " Nothuig could be seen to touch the handker-
chief ;
but, on the view suggested above, that which made contact
with it must, presumably, have been something material. Accord-
ingly X-ray photographs were taken with a view to detecting what,
if anything, was in contact with the handkerchief ". After a descrip-
tion of the photographic procedure he continues, " As the result of a
number of experiments photographs were obtained showing some
dark substance making contact with the objects, a substance which,
invisible to the human eye, was apparently visible to the X-ray ".
But the reports of the Rudi sittings at the National Laboratory
make no mention whatsoever of X-ray photographs being taken at
either of the two sittings when Dr Joad was present, or at any other
sitting.
If Dr Joad is referring to sittings elsewhere than at the National
Laboratory, it is a pity that he does not specify the place, or time, or
refer the reader to any contemporary account of the incident.
158] Review 221
Nor are Dr Joad's references to Eleanore Ziigun free from difficulty.
He writes as follows :
" A curious incident happened to myself. On
the last day of Eleanore's visit to the Laboratory I, together with a
number of those who had " sat with " her during the preceding
fortnight, went to say good-by. There was, I think, some sort of
tea party and a fair-sized crowd of people had assembled. Owing to
the press of people, I did not actually speak to Eleanore, but waved
my hand to her across the room and left after a short visit. I was
going to the country, and in the train took a book out of my bag to
read ; it was a new book and some of the pages were uncut. I felt in
my pocket for my penknife ; the feel of it was certainly unusual and,
pulling it out, I found that a crescent-shaped piece of metal—in
point of fact the metal letter C—encircled the knife in such a way
that so long as the letter was there it could not be opened. So tightly
was the knife wedged into the encirchng piece of metal that a mallet
and chisel were required to remove it ".
Now, it is a curious fact that whereas Dr Joad is not mentioned at
all in the Proceedings of the National Laboratory for January 1927,
which are entirely devoted to the investigation of Eleanore Ziigun,
an experience remarkably similar to that described by Dr Joad
occurred to the late Professor E. J. Tillyard, and is by him related at
length on pp. 57-58 of these Proceedings. He also went to say good-by
to her and actually shook her hand, and then hke Dr Joad took
train for the country. His train left Victoria at 8.20 for Rochester
and to quote his words, " I had an evening paper, which occupied me
about as far as Bromley. Then I took out Huxley's book from my
greatcoat pocket and began to read it. By the time we reached
Swanley, I had read eight pages and was then interested enough to
be considerably annoyed when I found that the next few pages had
not been cut. So I opened my greatcoat, put my hand down into the
left pocket of my coat, and felt for my knife to cut the pages with.
Then a curious feeling came over me. The km'fe did not feel like my
knife at all. I drew it out and found firmly attached to the metal
half-ring of the leather case enclosing it a white metalhc C which
effectively closed the case (see Fig. 4). I reahsed at once that it was
the C which had been lost 1 1 days before from the notice-board of the
ground floor of 16 Queensberry Place and the loss of which had been
generally attributed to '
Dracu ', [a control of Eleanore Ziigun.]
"
It is certainly strange that Dr Joad and Professor Tillyard should
both have experiences so strikingly similar on the same occasion.
Difficulties and discrepancies such as these are the despair of the
psychical researcher. The general pubhc is very badly informed on
matters of psychical research, especially perhaps on matters con-
222 Review [part 158]
nected with physical phenomena. It is therefore of the greatest
importance that all published accoimts of such phenomena should
be strictly accurate in detail : otherwise the whole subject is hkely
to be discredited in the eyes of intelligent enquirers. Dr Joad owes
it to his position, both in the academic world and in psychical re-
search to clear up the difficulties we have pointed out.
W. H. Salter.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 159
I
THE QUANTITATIVE STUDY OF TKANCE
PERSONALITIES
By Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc.
NEW SERIES, I
REVISION AND EXTENSION OF THE INTER-MEDIUM
EXPERIMENT
ABSTRACT.—To the material derived from Mrs Leonard and
Mrs Sharplin, and dealt with in Q.S.T.P. Ill, further data from
Mrs Garrett have been added. Treatment of the whole material by
the same general method as before, but avoiding certain pitfalls, shows
that there is a significant relationship between the J and E reactions
obtained from the different mediums. This is chiefly shown by a
negative correlation between the values (J-E) obtained from Sharplin
and Garrett, increasing from occasion to occasion. Further investi-
gation shows that the magnitude of this correlation is not inde-
pendent of the mediums' own reaction times; this supports the
hypothesis of Interference, rather than of Interchange, as an expla-
nation of the negative effect found. Collateral evidence is also dis-
cussed, and indicates that the true anti-chance odds ^ are considerably
greater than the 49 to 1 actually evaluated.
The operation of some kind of external factor or influence is
strongly suggested. This does not " prove " the autonomy of the
" communicators " concerned, but constitutes supporting evidence
in its favour as compared with the implications of a null result.
^ This term is used as a colloquial convenience : To say that the anti-
chance odds are m to 1 is equivalent to the expanded form " A deviation from
the expected result of the magnitude observed would occur, as the outcome
of chance alone, on the average only once in n + 1 such experiments."
M 223
224 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [paet
A man should never be ashamed to own he has been in the ivrong, which
is but saying . . . thai he is wiser to-day than he tvas yesterday. —Swift
If there be no ashes, how shall Phoenix rise ?
—
Anon
Introductory.—In the course of my ill-fated Q.S.T.P. III,^ I
rashly opined that, before reaching the conclusions there given, I had
" tried all the wrong ways first ". This was optimistic, for Dr
Thouless had little difficulty in showing ^ that exhaustion of wrong
ways had been far from completed ; and no one can agree with
him more cordially than I in regretting that the aberrations to
which he drew attention should have been immortalised in print.
As a matter of fact, so far at least as the work here considered is
concerned, there was nothing wrong with the basic method employed,
or with the data (except that there were not enough of them), or
with the accuracy of the computations as such, so far as I am aware.
There was a quite inexcusable error of logic involved in treating
the data obtained from Mrs Leonard in two different years as if
they had been obtained from two different mediums ;
and I was
altogether at sea in my attempts to deal with the regressions
(" slopes ") observed and to combine the probabilities derived from
these and other quantities into an overall test of significance. It
is important to note that these sources of error have been rectified in
what follows, not only because I am " wiser to-day than I was
yesterday ", but because I have enjoyed the benefit of adequate
instruction and supervision from appropriate authority in the tech-
nical points involved.
As so often before, I must express my gratitude to Professor
Fisher and the staff of the Galton Laboratory for many kindnesses ;
in particular, I am very greatly indebted to Mr W. L. Stevens for
putting me right, or preventing me going astray, on innumerable
occasions, and especially for looking through the relevant passages
of the manuscript as a final check up on the validity of the statistical
methods employed. He is not, of course, in any way responsible
for the interpretation that I or any one else may tend to place on
the results obtained.
I am also under no small obligation, which it is a pleasure to
record, to Mr Oliver Gatty, Professor Broad and Dr Thouless for
much valued advice, encouragement and help.
Material.—The material dealt with here consists of the reaction
times obtained at four sittings each with Mrs Leonard (October
1 Proc. S.P.R., Part 149, Vol. XLIV, December 1936.
2 Ibid. Part 150, Vol. XLIV, October 1937.
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 225
and November 1935), Mrs Sliarpliii (October 1935) and Mrs Garrett
(Sej)tember 1936). As stated in my earlier paper, there were
actually five sittings with the first two mediums ; but as external
circumstances prevented Mr Drayton Thomas (to whom I am again
indebted for the collection of observations) from obtaining more than
four sittings with Mrs Garrett, I have thought it best to ignore the
fifth Leonard and Sharplin sittings altogether, in the interests of
simpUcity and of using a compact block of data. This gives us a
total of 2,400 observations from J and E through the three mediums.
A total of 800 reactions from Feda were also obtained at the four
sittings with Leonard and Sharplin ; these led to no results of
interest, but the figures are given in Table I B for the sake of
completeness.
As explained elsewhere, the order of the words within each group
of 25, was varied from occasion (sitting) to occasion ; this variation
was systematic for Leonard and Sharplin, but randomised by means
of shuffled cards in the case of Garrett. Hereinafter the words 1-25
will be referred to as group A, 26-50 as group B, etc., while the
occasions will be denoted by the Roman numerals I-IV.
Preparation of Data.—a. Misheard, etc., words.—In a few cases
the stimulus word had quite evidently been misheard by the subject.
For example, when the response " calm " is given to the stinmlus
" peach ", or the response " absolve " to the stimulus " drive ",
there can be little doubt that these stimuli have been misheard as
" peace " and " shrive " respectively. In such cases reference Vv^as
made to the other occasions on which the same personaHty had
responded to the same stimulus word. The times there recorded
were expressed as percentages of the median values of the times of
their groups, and the mean of these percentages multiplied l)y the
median value of the times of the group affected gave the value of
the time to be used in place of that recorded against the word
misheard. Thus, if on occasions I, II and III the word in question
had a time of 61 per cent., 75 per cent., and 65 per cent, the group
median (mean value 67 per cent.), and on occasion IV, when it was
misheard, the group had a median value 12, it would be given a
time of 8, this being 67 per cent., to the nearest integer, of 12.
The same procedure, but using occasion instead of group medians,
was adopted when working by occasions instead of by groups.
Such interpolation was only used when there could be no reason-
able doubt of the mishearing ; doubtful cases were allowed to stand.
Two or three errors in typing were dealt with in the same way.
h. Over-long times.—As I have explained in an earlier paper, it
sometimes happens that the subject's response is so long delayed
226 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
that tlie time elapsing before reply cannot fairly be regarded as
representing a normal reaction. Where this has occurred, and an
abnormally long time has actually been recorded (or no time, but
the note " Long " given by the experimenter) I have substituted,
as an upper limit, a time equal to 2-25 times the median of the group
(or of the occasion, if working by occasions) concerned. This is, of
course, arbitrary ; but previous experience has shown that it is
appropriate to data of this type, and certainly no exception can be
taken to it. It is clearly preferable to allowing fantastically long
times to stand or to using some still more arbitrary limit, such as
50 units (fifths of a second) in all cases, which would disregard the
prevailing tendency to give relatively long or short times. It
appears to err, if anything, slightly on the side of generosity, but a
prolonged research would be necessary to determine the precisely
optimal value, and there would be little to be gained thereby.
As a result of practical experience, however, Mr Drayton Thomas
formed the opinion (which appears to be well justified) that these
long delays were not, in general, chiefly due to the effect of the
stimulus word, but to other causes such as local distractions or,
more particularly, to the communicator or control momentarily
" losing grip " of the medium. He accordingly adopted the practice
of leaving such stimuli on one side for a minute or two and then
giving them again after a short interval. This second attempt
almost invariably elicited a reaction time of normal length.
I have carefully examined all such instances and find that in no
case does any word show such delay as to require a repetition on
more than one occasion for the same personality. It seems clear
therefore that these delays are not characteristic of the word and
personahty concerned, so that, in order to give the fairest possible
picture of the personality's reactions, it is better to use the RT
obtained at the second time of asking rather than to treat the
reaction as " over-long " and write 2-25 times the median for it.
To this rule I have made only one exception, namely a word
which had to be twice repeated before a reply could be obtained and,
moreover, gave a time of 233 per cent, its group median on an earlier
occasion. In view of these facts I have had little hesitation in
accepting this reaction as a genuine instance of an " over-long
"
time and substituting 2-25 times the relevant median.
c. Corrections.—In Q.S.T.P. Ill, pp. 216-7, I expressed some
uneasiness lest the apparently significant results there obtained
might possibly be due to the effects of practice or fatigue. The
fact that the results in question were unreliable, in the sense of being
obtained by unsatisfactory methods, does not lessen the necessity
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 227
of clearing up this point before proceeding to a re-examination of
the material.
Actually, the likelihood of artifacts being generated in this way
is small. In the cases of Leonard and Sharphn, the order of the
words within each group of twenty-five was varied systematically,
and in the case of Garrett was completely randomised by the use of
shufEied cards, so that it is very difhcult to see how any such effect
could be produced. None the less, I thought it wise to examine
the point in detail. I accordingly worked the value of the linear
regression coefficient '
6 ', of the variance absorbed by the regres-
sion, of the residual variance, and of the '
t
'
used for testing the
significance of '
& ', for each of the ninety-six sheets concerned.
From the distribution of the fs so obtained we can determine the
likelihood of the regressions observed being the result of chance
alone. ^
The ninety-sis sheets thus treated yielded one result beyond the
•01 level of significance, with P about -005 ; there was another with
P almost exactly -01 , another at about the -02 point, and four at or
very near the -05 level. There is nothing surprising in such figures
when so many as 96 sheets are involved, for we should naturally
expect one result at the -01 level, and others in proportion, as the re-
sult of chance alone, so that the divergence from expectation is small.
As it happens, the most significant results occurred in the Garrett
material, and as this was randomised we may fairly say that they
'
must ' have been due to chance. The distribution of the fs shows
that effects of the observed magnitudes and signs would arise from
chance alone in more than 85 per cent., 75 per cent, and 50 per cent,
of such experiments in the cases of Leonard, Garrett and Sharplin
respectively. Finally, it is interesting to note that only one set of
four sheets constituting the testing of a given personaUty on a
given occasion, out of twenty-four such sets, shows a regression
coefiicient of the same sign {i.e. a uniform practice or fatigue effect)
throughout : we should expect three from chance alone, so that
from this point of view the incidence of practice and fatigue effects
seems sUghtly subnormal.
1 This is standard practice which I need not elaborate here. The " linear
regression coefiicient h " is the measure of the practice or fatigue effect observed,
according to sign ; the " variance absorbed " is the amount by which the
original variance of the reaction times of the sheet is reduced when the effect
is corrected : the " residual variance " is what is left when the absorbed
variance is subtracted from the total original variance : and the value of t is
given by \ {Absorbed Variance)js- where s- is the residual variance divided
by the number of residual degrees of freedom—here 23. Cf. Fisher, Statistical
Methods for Research Workers, section 26.
228 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
There is, in short, no evidence at all for supposing that either
practice or fatigue are operative within the groups. And since the
result of applving corrections would be to decrease just that varia-
bility of the times in which we are interested, it is clear that to use
them in these circumstances would be not only supererogatory but
pernicious.
I have accordingly used uncorrected data when working by
Groups, although, as will be explained in due course, I have applied
suitable corrections for inter-group differences when working by
occasions.
d. Logarithmic transformation.—It will he understood that since
the reaction time cannot be less than zero, and in practice not less
than ,5 or 4 imits, whereas it may be indefinitely prolonged, the
frequency distribution of the times will not be symmetrical ; that
is to say, the times will not be normally distributed. Actually, the
deviation from normality is not serious, but in order to reduce
possible ill effects from this cause to a minimum, I have adopted
a suggestion for which I am indebted to Mr Yates of the Rothamsted
Experimental Station and have replaced each time by its common
logarithm. This virtually removes all skewness from the distri-
bution and is a precaution which should be adopted in all work of
this kind. In order to avoid inconveniently heavy figures I have
in practice used the value 100 (logRT-1), as will be seen from
Example I below.
Further Illustration of Differential Method.—The neces-
sity for using the differences between the two sets of measurements
for two personalities was emphasised in my Q.S.T.P. Ill, and was
further elaborated by Dr Thouless {lac. cit., pp. 265 sqq.) ; but it
is so important that I may perhaps be forgiven if I use yet another
analogical illustration to bring out the point more clearly.
Let us suppose that our only data for characterising a burglar
are to be derived from a full-length photograph taken at an un-
known distance through a distorting lens. (N.B. The distorting
lens corresponds to the medium and the unknown distance to the
fact that the absolute mean RT may be affected by the external
conditions accompanying the sitting.) We cannot, since we do not
know the distance, or degree of distortion, determine his actual
height, length of forearm, breadth of head, etc. ; but we can find
the ratios between these quantities as '
rendered '
by the particular
lens concerned, and these ratios would enable us to identify the same
man from another similar photograph taken through the same lens,
even though at a different distance, for the only effect of this last
factor would be to increase or diminish all lengths in the photograph
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 229
in the same proportion. But we could never identify the man from
a photograph taken with a lens which distorted in a different manner
from the first, for this might elongate instead of broadening, or
magnify the head at the expense of the feet, etc.
If, however, we were dealing not with a single burglar but with
two in partnership, identification of the pair (though not of either
separately) would be possible regardless of the different distortion
of the second lens. In this case we should have to work with the
ratios of the ratios, instead of the ratios themselves, corresponding
(for the purpose of the analogy) to the differences between times.
To take a single illustrative point :
—Suppose that photograph of
burglar X taken with lens A showed a total height of 72 mm. and a
head-breadth of 6 mm., measured on the actual print, while the
corresponding photograph of burglar Y (taken at something like
twice the distance) showed a height of 33 mm. and a head-breadth
of 3 mm. ; then the ratio Height/Head-breadth will be 72/6=12
for X and 33/3 = 1 1 for Y, while the ratio of ratios X/Y will be 12/11
.
Now suppose that lens B is such that it expands horizontal distances
by 50% in comparison v.'ith vertical, and the distances (which affect
aU measurements impartially) are varied so as to reduce X's measured
height to 60 mm. and to increase Y's to 44 mm., we should find head-
breadths of 7-5 and 6 mm. respectively : this leads to ratios Height
to Head-breadth of 8 and 7-33 for X and Y respectively, neither of
which is the same as that obtained with lens A ; but the ratio of these
r?vtios, namely 8 to 7-33 is the same as before, i.e., 12 to 11. A
sufficient number of such X/Y ratios of ratios would enable us, in
principle, to identify the pair of burglars XY with just as much
assurance as a set of undistorted actual measurements would enable
us to identify either of them individually.
The analogy is naturally not perfect—no analogy is, unless it is
so hteral a transposition of the original problem as to defeat its
own elucidatory ends—but it should serve to show both the
necessity for the differential method and the manner in which it
works.
Moreover, once the necessity for the use of differences in RT is
grasped it becomes easy to understand the inherent handicap under
which the method labours, namely that a much higher degree of
accuracy in measxirement is necessary than is required for straight
forward non-differential comparisons of individuals. An error of
one unit is only 5% in a measurement of 20 units, but it becomes
25% if we are dealing with the difference between 20 units and 24.
Thus the part played by " error " is, so to say, disproportionately
magnified, and may bulk so large as completely to obscure the effect
230 Whatehj Carington, M.A., 31. Sc. [part
which it is sought to observe, even though the latter may actually
be present.
No one, of course, is to blame for this ; and it is just part of the
innate difficulty of the problem which no method whatever can
eliminate. On the other hand, once the point is understood, we can
see how it is that a procedure, which can successfully characterise
isolated individuals and discriminate between them, may be al-
together inadequate when the greater resolving power required to
identify a pair of personalities is called for.
Calculation of the Main Keaction Time Results.—1. Sim-
plification of the Method.—Soon after I had begun the analysis of
these revised and additional figures on the same lines as before, I
discovered that the original procedure as given me by Mr Stevens
and discussed in Q.S.T.P. Ill, Part II, A, could be greatly simplified
arithnietically by using the quantity (J~E), where J and E stand
for any two corresponding entries for John and Etta respectively,
as the working variate, and a,nalysing this in precisely the same
manner as was explained in connection with the study of Similarity
in Q.S.T.P. I.
It has already been emphasised more than once that our problem
can only be dealt with by comparing the difference between two
communicators as presented by medium A with their difference as
presented by Medium B. This is what Mr Stevens' original method
actually does, but it can be shown that identically the same numeri-
cal results are obtained by working
where x=a + b, y=a-b, a = J^-E,„ b = J^-E^ and J„, E,,, J^, Ef,,
stand for the reaction times for any word as obtained from J and
E respectively through mediums A and B respectively.^
This corresponds precisely to the working, in the study of Simi-
larity, of
W
^ = *log,—
,
where W stood for the sum of the squares of their differences from
their mean of the .sums, and WP for the sum of the squares of their
differences from their mean of the differences, of the reaction times
The use of the logarithmic transfonnation mentioned earlier merely means,
of course, that we use the difference of the logarithms as the working variate
and proceed as above.
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 231
for the various words of the two personalities concerned. All that
we are doing here is to use the difference (J - E) of two times,
instead of a single time, in each case, in making the compari-
son. 1
This modification enormously reduces the arithmetical labour
involved and has been used throughout the work here described.
Example I (p. 250) shows the full working of the data from
Sharplin and Garrett for the first twenty-five words (Group A) and
the third Occasion (Sitting) in each case. The left-hand column
gives the number of the word in the list : under the heading Sharp-
lin, columns J and E give the common logarithms (to two places
of decimals, with the decimal point omitted and 100 subtracted) of
the reaction times for John and Etta obtained through Sharplin,
respectively : the column (J - E) shows the difference between
them, which is the working variate. The corresponding data for
Garrett are given under the appropriate Garrett headings. The
columns headed Sums and Diff' show, as may be verified, the sums
and differences of the quantities (J-E). Beneath the various
columns the line 8{x) shows the total of each. In computing the
variances of these sums and differences, we first calculate the sum
of the squares, S(.x-) in the two columns, namely 18,364 and 22,620
respectively ; from these in each case we subtract the product,
iS(a;), of the mean and the total, the remainder, ii{x-x)'^, being
the sum of the squares of the differences from their means of the
quantities concerned. Since there are equal numbers of entries in
the two columns, there is no need to divide each of these sums
of squares by the number of degrees of freedom in order to
obtain the mean variance ; we accordingly divide the greater by
the smaller, obtaining the ratio (E) between them, which here
comes to 1-5381. The logarithm of this quantity to base e is
shown in the appropriate tables to be -4306, and this is what we
call Z.
It is easy to see that if the successive quantities (J - E) for
SharpUn and Garrett had been of closely corresponding magnitudes,
we should have had a tendency towards large quantities with a big
variance under Sums and small quantities with a small variance
under Diff^ : this would have corresponded to a positive correlation
between the values of (J - E) for the two mediums. As it is, the
reverse is the case, indicating a negative correlation, so that the
variance of the Differences of (J - E) is greater than that of their
^ Some readers may find the procedure easier to understand if it is pointed
out that the work is formally equivalent to determining the intra-class corre-
lation between the two series of differences (J - E),
232 Whatehj Carington, M.A., M.Sc. '
[part
Sums. We must accordingly prefix a minus sign to the Z and write
it - -4306, as shown in the Example.
The actual procedure is quite simple, though the necessary
reiteration of the word " difference " makes it sound difficult and
confusing. Perhaps it will be easier if we introduce some other term
such as "disparity" when talking of the quantity (J-E) and try
to bear in mind that our prol)lem is simply one of determining
whether the disparities between J and E as shown by one medium
agree (positive correlation and positive Z) or disagree (negative
correlation and negative Z) with those shown by another medium
for the same list of words.
The question of whether the degree of correlation shown can
reasonably be ascribed to chance is tested in the usual way by
dividing Z by its standard error and looking up the value of the
probability required in a table of normal deviates. Since there are
25 words in a group, with 24 degrees of freedom between them, the
variance of z is and of Z four times this, or |, with standard error
•4082. In the particular example worked, the value of the normal
deviate obtained by dividing Z by this quantity is only 1-055.
Reference to the appropriate table shows that a value of this magni-
tude or greater might occur as often as about twenty-nine times in
a hundred by the operation of chance alone. It is accordingly far
from being significant.
The Z's obtained in this way form the raw material, so to say,
for the second stage of our investigation, and if John and Etta
were autonomous entities transmitting characteristic reaction times
undistortedly through the mediums, we should expect the values
calculated to be preponderantly positive. If, on the other hand,
there is no more than a chance relation connecting the " disparities
"
(J-E) between John and Etta in one case with those in another,
we should expect the Z's to be randomly distributed about a mean
of zero and to show no particular features of interest.
2. Primary results of the Inter-medium, comparisons.—It will be
understood that since data for J and E are available from three
mediums, there are three kinds of comparison which can be made,
namely Leonard and Garrett, Leonard and Sharplin, and Sharplin
and Garrett. In the case of the Feda material, only two medi-
ums are concerned, but we can use either the difference between
Feda and John or that between Feda and Etta as the working
variate.
These main results for John and Etta are given in Table I A, and
for Feda in Table I b.
It is necessary to give these results in detail for the sake of com-
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 233
pleteness and to assure ourselves that the effect (if any, and. of
whatever kind) does not vary significantly as between groups, but
I do not expect the reader to bestow more than a passing glance on
them ; it will be more convenient to extract the necessary features
for detailed consideration as we go along. It may be noted, however,
that the grand total (0-24] 2) for the Leonard-Grarrett comparisons
is faintly positive ; that for Leonard-Sharplin (
- 0-7790) moderately
negative; and that for Sharplin-Garrett (-3-1239) very heavily
negative : also that the occasion totals (in the extreme right-hand
column) for these last data show a clear tendency to become more
negative on the later occasions.
I shall discuss this curious negativity in considerable detail
below ; at the moment we need only concern ourselves with the
question of whether the results obtained can reasonably be attri-
buted to chance causes or not.
For this purpose I shall concentrate on the Sharplin-Garrett Z's
of Table I a, ignoring the Leonard-Sharplin and Leonard-Garrett
values as evidently non-significant by inspection.
It is naturally impracticable to give here a full account and
explanation of the methods used for testing the significance of the
figures, for which the reader must refer to the appropriate text-
books ; the best I can do is to reproduce the actual working, so that
it can be verified by anyone interested, and to add a few words of
elucidation for the benefit of the semi-statistical reader.
Ignoring the differences between groups as insignificant by in-
spection, and concentrating on the occasion totals, we have
Occasion Z
I - •4216 -1-5 - -63240
II - - -4386 - -5 -21930
III - -1-1771 •5 - -58855
IV - -1-9298 1-5 - 2-89470
Total - -3-1239 -3-89635
Here the Z's are copied from the Table, the use of ^-^ and the entries
under that heading follow Fisher's technique for the determination
of regression coefficients, and the values in the last column are the
products of those in the first two.
Dividing the two totals by the number of entries and the sum of
the squares of respectively, we obtain the mean and the linear
regression coefficient of Z on occasion ; these are found to be
- -781 and - -779 respectively. Multiplying each of these by its
corresponding total, we obtain the amount of variance '
absorbed
'
234 WJiately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
as the term is, by the mean and the regression ; these quantities
divided by the theoretical variance, which for a total of four Z's
will be I, give us two x^'s with one degree of freedom each. The
values of these are about 3-660 and 4-554 respectively, and reference
to the appropriate Tables shows that the first is very nearly signi-
ficant (P<-06) and the second quite definitely so (P^—03).
To obtain the probability that both the mean and the regression
should differ from their expected values of zero to the observed
extent, or more, as the result of chance alone, we sum the two
X''s and obtain another ^vith 2 degrees of freedom ; this
comes to 8-214 for which the value of P is only about 1 in 61 or
•0165.
In other words, the results of the Sharplin-Garrett comparisons
deviate from expectation to an extent which would occur on the
average only once in rather more than sixty such collections of
1,600 original observations, if no factor other than chance were
operative upon the data.
This is a very reasonably handsome degree of significance, and
it would still remain just above the conventional level of -05 even
if we felt compelled, which is very doubtfully necessary as we shall
see below, to treat the Sharplin-Garrett comparisons as the best of
three antecedently equal sets. Actually, the probability of the
results being chance-determined is very much less than this, as we
shall shortly see.
In calculating the foregoing significances we have retained the
division of the data into groups—a division which is quite unneces-
sary once we have satisfied ourselves that there are no important
differences between them from the point of view of the distribution
of Z. On the contrary, it leads to an unnecessarily insensitive test
of significance, because, speaking technically, we lose the three
degrees of freedom between the four groups into which each occasion
is divided. We shall accordingly obtain a better estimate of signi-
ficance by pooling the groups for each occasion and re-working the
Z's for each occasion as a whole.
Before doing this, however, I readjusted the data in respect of
over-long times, misheard words, etc., using the occasion medians, as
indicated on p. 225, above. I also computed suitable corrections
to be applied equally to each member of any group, so as to deal
with the fact that although the intra-group regressions on order are
negligible the inter-group differences for a particular occasion are
not always so.
Taking the Sharplin-Garrett figures only and testing significance
precisely as before, we have
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 235
Occasion z
I - 0961 -1-5 - -14415
II - - -1403 - -5 -07015
III - - -3348 -5 - -16740
IV - - -4642 1-5 - -69630
Total - - -8432 - -93770
Mean - -21080 b - -18754
Absorbtions -17775 and -17586
Theoretical
Variance 4/99
- - 4-3993 and 4-3525
P < -04 and < -04
Total absorbtion -35361
x' -
-
8-7518
1/P - -
79-52
P - - < -02
The procedure may be followed by reference to the first evalua-
tion. Note that the theoretical variance is now 4/99, because the
occasion as a whole has 100 words with 99 degrees of freedom
between them. The value of P now comes to no more than about
1 in 80, which means that even if we take the result as the best of
three the odds are better than 25 to I against the outcome being
fortuitous.
Interpretation of Negative Z's. —We shall see below that even
the distinctly high significance just found considerably underesti-
mates the improbability of the Sharplin-Garrett results being due to
chance ; but I propose to leave this question on one side for the
time being and to attempt some discussion of the interpretation to
be given to the occurrence of negative Z's.
Statistically speaking, of course, and on the hypothesis that
chance alone is opera.tive, negative Z's are just as likely or unlikely
to occur as positive, and if the results could fairly be ascribed to
chance there would be nothing to occasion surprise. But this is
not the case and it is accordingly our duty to try to ascertain what
interpretation, if any, can reasonably be given to this very curious
outcome.
At one time it was contended that " no intelligible meaning
"
could be attached to a negative Z. This is definitely incorrect,
for there are certainly two, though I think not more than two,
perfectly intelligible if not equally plausible explanations that can
be given. I shall refer to these as the hypotheses of IntercJumge
and Interference respectively, and our next step must be to state
them as clearly as we can and to explain what kind of mechanism
must be postulated in connection with each.
236 Whately Carmgton, 31. A., M.Sc. [part
I should point out here that since both these hypotheses lead to
the same main result, namely negative Z's, they cannot be distin-
guished by the methods so far described. They appear to me,
however, to be conceptually distinct, even if it be argued that the
only effect of Interference is to produce Interchange ; and we shall
see below that there is some experimental reason, apart from
general considerations, for preferring the one to the other. I have
therefore thought it proper to discuss them separately.
a. Interchange.—The hypothesis of interchange has at any rate
the merit of simpHcity. It postulates that, for the occasion or
group concerned, the parts of J and E are interchanged by one of
the mediums (but not by both) either throughout or preponder-
antly, so that when we think we are getting J's times we are really
getting E's, and vice verso.
The way in which this would operate is easily understood by
reference to Example I. Suppose that in this group there has been
interchange in the case of Sharplin, but not in that of Garrett.
Then to rectify matters we must write all the Sharplin E figures in
the J column and the J figures in the E column. This will have the
effect of reversing the signs of the SharpHn (J - E) column. Then,
since the Garrett figures remain unaffected, the result will be to
interchange the figures under Sums and Diff^ This can readily be
seen by considering the first line which will now read (the headings
being just as before)
1. 18 0 18 0 18 -18 0 -36
The process being continued all down the columns the total effect
will be to interchange the figures for Sums and Diff^ throughout, so
that we should end with a sum of squares of 22,48544 for the former
and of 14,618-56 for the latter, leading to a positive Z of the same
numerical value as before.
It should be noted in passing that a purely random substitution
of J for E and E for J times would not produce the required effect,
but would merely tend towards the production of Z's approximating
to zero.
If we had any external reason for supposing that interchange of
this kind actually took place in the case of Mrs Sharplin, we should
have some justification for changing the signs of the Z's in all com-
parisons in which she is concerned and claiming that the experiment
as a whole yielded a triumphantly positive result. ^ Unfortunately,
so far as I can see, we have no warrant for this at all ; indeed such
^ I say " Sharplin " here, because inspection of Table I A will show at once
that it is she who appears most closely associated with negative Z's.
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 237
trivial evidence as is available seems to coutra-iudicate the supposi-
tion. To test tlie point, I asked Mr Drayton Thomas to go through
the Sharplin material and see whether there was any appreciable
tendency for characteristic J responses to appear in the E lists, or
vice versa ;
because, if interchange were taking place, one would
expect this to happen to an appreciable extent. He could only find
four very doubtful instances, occurring in two negative and one
positive groups, whereas he had previously noted four reasonably
characteristic J words in their proper place. Since there are 11
negative groups out of 16 in the Sharplin-Garrett material, the first
of these facts is evidently negligible, while the second tends against
interchange having occurred.
There seems, therefore, no collateral evidence to support the
hypothesis of Interchange, while it is very difficult to imagine such
a thing taking place systematically and on the extended and in-
creasing scale required to produce the observed effects.
b. Interference.—This, hj'pothesis is perhaps less artificial than
that of Interchange, but it is not quite so simple and is correspond-
ingly more difficult to explain.
For those who are familiar with the notions and terminology of
the Analysis of Variance the point may be most easily dealt with by
recalling that in the original method we w6re comparing the variance
due to the first order interaction of conamunicator and word (CW)
with that due to the second order interaction of medium-communi-
cator-word (MCW)i : alternatively, in the simplified method, we
are comparing the variance of the differences (J-E) due to the
different words with that due to the interaction of word and medium ;
the fact that the last-named (MW) comes out unduly large indicates
that a considerable degree of medium-communicator-word inter-
action is occurring.
In more ordinary language, the difference between J and E
depends not merely on the word but on the medium, and not merely
on the medium but on the word ; that is to say on medium and word
taken in conjunction. Alternatively we may say that the difference
in reaction time between the two mediums (and we should never
forget that it is from these that the data are actually obtained)
depends not only on the word used as a stimulus but also on whether
they are in the J or the E state.
Approaching the problem from a slightly different angle, we may
reflect that, since we are using the difference between the two states
J and E as the working variate, no relationship between the two
mediums in trance as such, whether of positive correlation or of
1 Cf. Q.S.T.P. III, Part II a.
238 Whately Caringfon, M.A., M.Sc. [part
negative, can affect the result, because in so far as there may be
anything characteristic of either medium common to both states of
that medium it will disappear in the subtraction. It follows that
for a positive correlation to be obtained it is necessary for one state
or the other or both to affect both mediums in the same way ; and
for a negative result it is necessary that one or the other state or
both should produce opposite effects on the two mediums.
Possibly the point will be easier to understand if we think of it
in terms of J and E as two external sources of some kind yielding
different but characteristic sets of reactions to the various words
of the list. Then the differences (J - E) between the two series
obtained through the two mediums must be positively correlated,
regardless of the influence of the mediums, provided this influence
is impartially applied ;
provided, that is to say, that in respect of
any given word each medium produces the same effect on J as on E,
or alternatively that the effect of l)oth mediums on J (or E) is the
same. But it is fairly easy to see that if the two mediums produce
opposite effects on one of the communicators, or if one medium
produces opposite effects on the two communicators, the resemblance
of the two sets of differences (J - E) must be diminished and the
difference between them increased ; and if this is taken far enough
a negative correlation will result.
The process is, however, difflcult to translate from the mathe-
matical to the verbal form, so it will probably be better to think of
the negative results merely as being generated by the not detailedly
specified " interaction " of mediums, communicators and words
operating in a fashion somewhat similar to that in which different
subjects might be expected to give somewhat different reactions
in the presence of different witnesses. It will be of more interest to
enquire whether there is any positive evidence for the operation of
interference of this kind.
Regression of Z's on Mediums' Times.—In considering the
possibility of obtaining such evidence I reflected that, if either
medium '
interferes ' with the reactions, she is most likely to do so
in respect of those words of greatest emotional significance to her
in her normal state ; she is likely to be neutral in respect of words
which strike no complex, arouse no interest and create no disturbance.
If this is true, then, since prolongation of reaction time is a sign
of emotional significance, it is likely that the signs of interference,
namely negativity of Z's, will be most marked among words for
which the medium's own reaction time is longest, and least among
those for which it is shortest.
To test this we will select wliichever medium we like—Garrett,
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 239
say—to start with, arrange the words in the order of the reaction
times obtained from her when tested on the occasion concerned in
her normal state, break this series of 100 up into blocks of 10,
compute Z for each such block, and see whether there is any signi-
ficant tendency for the value of Z to vary from block to block.
^
We must also, of course, do the same thing again using Sharplin as
'
indicator ' so to speak, and must repeat for all occasions. As an
example I give below the values of Z obtained from Garrett and
Sharphn, and the working of the regression coefficients, for the first
occasion
:
TABLE I
SnAEPLnsr Gaeeett
Block z Z z Z
1 - - 4-5 •8932 - 4-01940 - -6250 2^81250
2 - - 3-5 •4328 -1-51480 - ^2080 •72800
3 - - 2-5 •2209 - -55225 - r4426 3^60650
4 - - 1-5 •7607 -1-14105 1-0097 -1^51455
5 - - •5 •2348 - -11740 •3035 - ^15175
6 •5 - ^4714 - ^23570 - ^0370 - -01850
7 1-5 •3403 •51045 - ^1090 - -16350
8 2-5 •0647 •16178 •7324 1-83100
9 3-5 - •6603 -2^31105 •6533 2-28655
10 4-5 - ^4299 -1-93455 - ^1467 - -66015
Total 1-3858 -11-15400 •1306 8-75610
Dividing by 82-5 gives h - -1352 and -1061;
l/cr^ is easily shown to be 13-6245, whence we have
hjo^ 1-842 and 1-446,
of which the first is not far from significance (P-^-OGS).
There is no need to give these details in full throughout, but
Table II shows the values of h obtained for Sharplin and Garrett by
applying this treatment to each of the four occasions.
TABLE II
Occasion Shaeplin Gaeeett
h b
I - - -1352 1-842 •1061 1-446
II -0376 •513 •1193 1-668
III •0349 •475 - ^1698 2-313
IV - - -0166 •226 - -0239 -326
S(62/cr,2) 3^933 10^329
P - ~ -4 -0353 or 1/28-47
^ In other words, we test the regression of Z on block order. I am indebted
to Mr Stevens for this method, which is a great improvement on the far cruder
plan I first thought of using.
N
240 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
It is to be uoted here that, since the expected vahie of b is zero,
b^/of,^ will be a x" with one degree of freedom in each case, so that
the sum of these quantities will be, for each medium, a with four
degrees of freedom. This is negligible in the case of Sharplin, but
gives a significant value of 10-329 in the case of Garrett. In other
words, the tendency for Z's to be negative is not independent of
Garrett's own reaction times.
The result is slightly surprising inasmuch as it is Sharplin, as
we have seen, rather than Garrett, who seems most closely associated
with the production of negative Z's. But the point is not of major
importance, for the test we have applied is, so to say, an extremely
•naive one. It seems likely on general grounds that the process of
interference which we are considering is some more complex function
of the medium's own time than its actual magnitude, and still more
likely that it is some not altogether simple function of the two
times (that is to say, of Sharplin's own time and Garrett's own time)
taken in conjunction. In the circumstances, the surprising thing is
that the test should have given a worth-while result at all rather
than that its outcome should not conform precisely to anticipation.
It is perhaps worth noting that there is here, for those who care
to think in such terms, a strong suggestion that successful medium-
ship may consist not so much in receiving the appropriate impres-
sions as in the ability to abstain from interfering with them. In this
case, we can almost see the process of distortion by the medium's
own mental content going on ; and it may well be that the chief
difference between good mediums and less good is to be found in
the degree to which this distortion is avoided.
Combination of the Probabilities.—The treatment of the
main RT and that for the regression of Z on Medium's own time
are completely rigid and yield anti-chance probabilities which may
be combined in the usual way.^
The two contributions are
P l/P
From main ET results, combining Mean and regres-
sion on occasion -0125 79-52
From regression of Z's on Mediums' own times,
taking Garrett's result as the better of two - -07 14-49
Then we have
log, ----- 79-52 4-37601
„----- 14-49 2-67347
Sum ------ 7-04948
Multiplying by 2 gives ----- 14-09896
^ I.e. by negative logarithms : cf. Fisher, loc. ciL, section 21, ].
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 241
wliich is a with four degrees of freedom. Interpolating in the
appropriate tables ^ we find P to be about -007 ; that is to say, the
odds are more than 140 to 1 against the results of the Sharplin-
Garrett comparisons being the outcome of chance alone.
In the interests of the strictest conservatism we will consider this
as the best of three comparisons (viz. Leonard-Garrett, Leonard-
Sharplin and Sharplin-Garrett) of equal antecedent status, although,
as I have already indicated and shall later explain, this is probably
by no means obligatory. Using exact figures and proceeding in the
usual way ^ we obtain P' = -02 or 1 in 50, very nearly, for the pro-
bability that the data as a whole represent a randomly related
collection. This is definitely significant, and the null hypothesis
that there is only a chance relation between the times given in the
J and E states by the three mediums may be regarded as virtually
disproved.
Interim Discussion of Foregoing Eesults.—Without in any
way wishing to overcall my hand, I think we may regard the out-
come of the study up to this point as remarkably satisfactory. It
is true that anti-chance odds of 49 to 1 are not overwhelming ; but
the desire for astronomical figures is no more than a symptom
showing that the function of tests of significance has been imper-
fectly understood. This function is not to '
'prove '
this hypothesis
or that, but to help us to distinguish chance generated effects from
real ; that is to say, to tell us how likelv it is that the effects ob-
served are due to uncontrollable, or at least uncontrolled, chance
variations of circumstance rather than to systematic causes relevant
to our enquiry. We can never say with complete finality that any
given result, no matter what the anti-chance odds may be, is
certainly not due to chance ; but we can tell whether it is so likely
to be so that further enquiry on the lines concerned will probably
be waste of time. The conventional and purely arbitrary criterion
usually adopted is that of one chance in twenty ; that is to say, it
is commonly (if a trifle pusillanimously) agreed that a result is to
be discarded if there is more than one chance in twenty of our
wasting our time in following it up. The odds of 49 to 1 here ob-
tained are handsomely beyond this point, and, if we had obtained
very much longer odds, the only additional conclusion would have
been that we had collected many more data than were necessary
for our purpose.
But actually we have done a good deal more than merely show that
^ Fisher and Yates, Statistical Tables, p. 27.
2 I.e. by evaluating 1 - q^, where g' is 1 and p has the value -006944 just
found.
242 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
errors of random sampling constitute an improbable explanation of
the relationships observed between the figures ; we have made
quite appreciable progress towards discovering what sort of pro-
cesses seem to be involved.
In deaUng with material of this kind, three stages are clearly
distinguishable. First we must ask whether the observational data
are consistent with the null hypothesis of a chance determined
origin ; if they are not, we must try to frame some reasonable
explanation for the features they are found to present ;
finally, we
must conduct some further test, either on the same data or on others
collected specially for the purpose, to ascertain whether this ex-
planation is correct. In this case we have successfully carried out
all three stages of the work. Taking the Sharphn-Garrett figures,
we find odds of more than 100 to 1 against their being ascribable to
chance alone ; we then envisaged two possible explanations of the
most strildng feature (negative correlation between the J-E
differences) which they presented, namely Interchange and Inter-
ference, the latter being by no means implausible antecedently, but
rather the reverse ; we went on to surmise that, if this second
explanation were correct, it would be unlikely for the degree of
correlation to be independent of the mediums' own times ;
finally,
on testing this, we found significant anti-chance odds (in the case
of Garrett) against such independence.
To all intents and purposes this is tantamount to saying that we
have shown (r/) that the relationship between the J and E data
obtained through the differeiit mediums is not a chance relationship,
{h) that the curious form of negative correlation which this relation-
ship takes in the case of Sharplin-Garrett is due to interaction
between the mediums and communicators (whatever these may be),
and (c) that this interaction is of the nature of interference due to
excessive influence of the mediums' own mental make-up on the
natural J and E reactions. Further than this we cannot at present
go ; but to have gone so far is as much as we could look for from
an experiment of this kind, short of an out and out positive result,
such as no prudent mail would expect to obtain in Psychical
Research.
Collateral Evidence.—I have said above that the process of
treating the anti-chance probabilities evaluated as if they were the
better of two attempts in the case of the association of mediums'
times with degree of negative correlation, or as the best of three in
the case of the Sharplin-Garrett comparison as a whole, is probably
unnecessary. The reason is that this treatment is, properly speak-
ing, only called for when the antecedent probabilities of obtaining
159] The QuoMtitative Study of Trance Personalities 243
the effects observed are equal in the various cases considered ; and
this does not seem to be true here.
If, for example, we were concerned with tests of gustatory acuity
and wished to ascertain whether two solutions were identical or
not, relying on tests involving the sense of taste alone and using
three subjects picked at random for the purpose, we should be
quite right in treating any intrinsically significant result shown by
one of them as the best of three attempts, and in discounting the
results accordingly ; but if it were found that one of our subjects
was a professional tea-taster while another had had some experience
of the kind, this would cease to be correct ; we should then attribute
differences in successful discrimination not to the effects of random
samphng {i.e. to chance alone) but to the known differences of
ability between our subjects, and should take the most significant
result (presumably from the professional) at its face value. Very
much the same kind of thing appUes here : we know that Mrs
Leonard has had many years of experience and practice at whatever
the process is that we describe as " communication by J and E "
;
Mrs Garrett, though without previous experience of J and E them-
selves, has made something of a specialty of " direct control " in
general ; while Mrs Sharplin, I imderstand, has devoted compara-
tively little attention to this branch of mediumship. Consequently,
where direct control by J and E is concerned, the antecedent status
of the three mediums is very far from equal ; on the contrary, we
should expect them to rank quite definitely in the order of merit
Leonard, Garrett, Sharplin ; and we should expect any phenomenon
of interference to be much more marked in the case of the two last-
named ladies than in that of the first. And this order, as a glance
at Table I A will show, is precisely that in which the study of the
reaction times ranlis them.
Now it is true that the probability of their ranlcing in this order
as the result of chance alone is as great as 1 in 6 ; and it is also
true that, since this probability cannot, a priori, assume any value
between 0 and 1, it is not practicable to combine it with the pre-
viously found overall value of 1 in 50. But it is perfectly legitimate
to maintain either that this ranking, which is confirmed by other
evidence given below, destroys the assumption on which the treat-
ment of the Sharplin-Garrett comparison as the best of three
depends, or to say that it constitutes additional evidence of the
non-chance character of the results, even though we are not in a
position to assume the exact force of its contribution. These are
really no more than two different ways of expressing the same
argument ;
but, whichever way we look at it, it is clear that the
244 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [PABT
aforementioned anti-cliance odds of 49 to 1 constitute a considerable
understatement of the facts of the case.
This matter of the ranlving of the three mediums is well supported
by a numerical study by Mr Drayton Thomas (unpubhshed at the
time of writing) of the verbal responses obtained. For the present
purpose the following abbreviated account will be sufficient.
Mr Thomas recognises, in effect, three criteria by which the
relative merits of the mediums are assessed.
(1) The first is the Ukeness of J to E as judged by the number
of identical responses to the same stimulus word given by them
but hj them alone ; this is based on the assumption that the two
communicators, being father and daughter and closely associated
both during life and after death, would have more associations in
common, but not shared by others, than would two personaUties
not so related. The system of marking was as follows :
" When
J and B (or any other pair of personalities) give an identical response
in reply to some stimulus, and no other personality gives it, then
I give one mark for identity to that pair ; should they both repeat
that reaction to the same stimulus a further mark is given. Some-
times they both repeat this reaction word a second or third time,
which gains a second or third mark. It must be understood that
no reaction is counted unless given by the one pair and by them
only." Mr Thomas appUes this procedure to each of the six pairs
formed by the four personahties (medium, control, J, E) in each
" manifold ". Since there were only four Garrett sittings instead of
five as with Leonard and Sharplin, it will be best to give the results
in terms of percentages of the total scores gained by the JE pair
as compared with the mean percentage for the other pairs. The
figures are :
Repetitions Total
Leonard
% Total score for J and E - 43-2
Mean % for other pairs - 11-4
43-5
11-3
43-3
11-3
Garrett
% Total score for J and E - 32-4
Mean % for other pairs - 13-5
32-9
134
32-6
.13-4
Sharplin
% Total score for J and E
Mean % for other pairs
20-0
16-0
14-9
17-0
18-0
16-4
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 245
It is evident that tliis test ranks the mediums Leonard, Garrett,
Sharplin in the order given.
(2) The second criterion is that of characteristic " responses,
that is to say, replies judged by Mr Thomas to be determined by
interests and sentiments known to have been of importance to the
communicators, such as ministerial activities for J and painting
for E. The figures here are :
J E Total
Leonard - - 38 54 92
Garrett - - 37 45 82
Sharplin - - 4 0 4
Total - 79 99 178
and the ranking is clearly as before.
(3) Finally there is the occurrence of imique reactions, i.e.
responses given by J or E but by no other personality at all. This
criterion is based on the supposition that the bare fact of a response
being " unique " in this sense indicates that the communicator is
getting through something of his own as opposed to something of
the medium's. The figures are :
J E Total
Leonard - - 12 9 21
Garrett - - 6 4 10
Sharplin - - 2 5 7
Total - 20 18 38
Here again, though with rather less certainty, the mediums are
ranked in the same order.
Of these results, those given by (2) are, I think, the most im-
portant. None, however, is as unambiguous as that of the RT
analysis, for it would probably be possible to attribute them all
to differences of histrionic ability without much strain. Still,
I thinlv it fair to claim that they appreciably strengthen the view
that something characteristic of the communicators is being trans-
mitted with varying degrees of success—in other words, that the
order of merit noted by Mr Thomas and given objectively by the
RT analysis is a real one, with the implication that some process
akin to communication " is going on. At the very least, there can
be no doubt that they are entirely consonant with this hypothesis.
Another fact, which may fairly be reckoned as collateral evidence,
though not of very great force, is that, in the case of all three
246 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
mediums, J's mean reaction time is significantly longer than E's.
I compute these from the group totals and find
Leonard Gaekett Shakplin
John Etta John Etta John Etta
Mean group total - 400-2 325-0 284-0 262-6 317-8 287-6
DifE'^e of means - 75-2 21-4 30-2
s - - - - 57-35 23-93 40-14
t - - - - 3-709 2-529 2-128
P - - - < -001 < -02 ~ -04
It will be noted that here again the three mediums appear in the
same order in the sharpness with which they discriminate the two
personalities.
The actual effect, though intrinsically significant in each case,
represents, of course, no more than a single character of the per-
sonalities, as it might be a single item in a set of Bertillon measure-
ments ; it is not therefore of great contributory weight, though it
seems worth noting as a matter of general interest. On the other
hand, the chance of all three showing a difference of the same kind
is -25, and that of their appearing in the same order as before is -17 ;
so that these facts constitute an appreciable, if again inassessable,
makeweight to the overall anti-chance odds.
General Discussion and Interpretation.—The interpretation
which will, in fact, be given to the results described above will
depend so largely on the predispositions of the interpreter that
discussion of them here is almost foredoomed to be a waste of time.
We can, however, at least clarify the issue to the extent of deciding
what we can be sure about and what not, and of examining with
some care, if not altogether exhaustively, the alternatives that
present themselves.
The fact to be discussed is that of finding a significant negative
correlation between the values of (J - E) for the reactions obtained
on different words for the two mediums Sharplin and Garrett.
The alternative exflanatiom are (a) use of a faulty method, (6) com-
puting errors, (c) chance, {d) some direct causal connection between
Sharplin and Garrett, (e) some external cause or source of the
reactions operative upon both.
Dealing with these in order, we may at once dismiss the first,
for no well-advised critic will attempt to dispute the methods of
determining the correlations and their regression on occasion, the
combination of these, or the estimation of significance, which have
been employed ; nor does it need more than a glance from an
instructed eye to see that I have scrupulously avoided those vagaries
159] The Quantitative Sttidy of Trance Personalities 247
which, beset my errant if well-intentioned feet in the preparation
of Q.S.T.P. III. The methods in question are completely orthodox
and may be regarded as being almost as well established as the
multiphcation table or the use of logarithms. Moreover, as indicated
in my preamble, I have had the advantage of consultation with the
highest authorities throughout the work.
As regards errors of computation, the work is not of a kind in
which the outcome is liable to be seriously falsified by the occurrence
of a few undetected slips. Actually, of course, all the calculations
have been carefully checked ; but perhaps the best assurance on
this point is to be found in the fact that when, at an earlier stage,
I worked the whole of the main calculations using corrected times
not converted to logarithms, I obtained results substantially iden-
tical in sense and magnitude with those here given. We may there-
fore take it that no serious error has been introduced in this way.
In any ordinary sense of the words, moreover, we may regard
chance also as ehminated ; the minimal odds against this hypo-
thesis are 49 to 1, and actually they must be quite considerably, if
indeterminably, greater than this. For all practical purposes we
may count " chance ", which in any event is but the last refuge of
the destitute, as out of it.
To sum up thus far, in colloquial language for the sake of em-
phasis : We are confronted with a real effect, which is not due to
chance, to errors of method or of calculation, and must therefore
be explained either by the invocation of " normal " causes or by the
admission of some cause which, in the present state of our ignorance,
we must be content to regard as " paranormal ".
The difficulty of producing any reasonably plausible explanation
on normal lines is very great. It would be bad enough if all we
had to account for were a negative correlation between the two
mediums themselves, whether in trance or not ; for we could not
get over it, as we should do in the case of a positive correlation,
merely by assuming that the hst of stimuli used had inadvertently
been allowed to contain a number of words having a more or less
universal importance ; we should be compelled to suppose in addi-
tion, and quite gratuitously, that it contained a considerable pro-
portion of words of two types, X and Y say, present in roughly
equal nimibers. of which one type caused prolongation of time in
Sharplin but not in Garrett, and the other in Garrett but not in
Sharphn ^ ; in other terms, that Sharphn and Garrett were strongly
^ X and Y may be supposed to refer to any pair of antithetic qualities such
(just for the sake of ilhistrating somehow) as " mascuhne " and " feminine ",
or intellectual " and " athletic ".
248 Whately Carington, 31. A., M.Sc. [part
contrasted or antithetic types, one giving delayed times on about
one-half of the words used (or some considerable proportion thereof)
and the other on the other.
This idea, though it may sound simple enough on paper, is actually
almost incredible. It is, of course, perfectly possible to argue that
any word must have, in the last analysis, predominantly X or Y
connotations, whatever X and Y may stand for ; but it is only
possible to do this from what I may term a " pubUc " or general
standpoint, and it does not in the least follow from any such argu-
ment that the words concerned have predominantly the same X
or Y connotations for both Sharplin and Garrett ;
yet this further
assumption of an extensive degree of word to word correspondence
is necessary in order to explain any observed correlation.
But the effect actually observed is very much more difficult to
explain than this, because we have carefully employed a differential
method, taking the value (J - E) as the working variate, in order
to eliminate any correlation between the two mediimis, whether
positive or negative, which might result from or remain in the
trance state as such. Consequently, we cannot suggest, as otherwise
we might be tempted to do (though we should not thereby evade
the difficulty just mentioned) that the process of going into trance
automatically brought out latent characteristics of the mediums
not observable in their normal states. It must be something to do
with the intrinsic J-ness or E-ness of one or other of the two states
or both that is responsible for the effect, and I see no way of attach-
ing any kind of intelligible meaning to such terms except by postu-
lating some kind of external source or factor capable, so to say, of
setting its own individual imprint on the reactions of the trance
states concerned, while the fact that this factor interacts with the
two mediums in such a way as to lead to a negative instead of
the more natural positive correlation does not make it less necessary
to conclude that it is in some sense external. In fact it makes it,
if anything, more necessary, because, while we might by a sufficient
stretching of the imagination suppose that a diUgent getting up of
the parts of J and E by two adequately accompUshed actresses
might conceivably result in a positive correlation of the differences
between the two renderings, even in so recondite a respect as the
reaction times given to a particular list of words, we really cannot
plausibly suggest that a significant negative correlation could pro-
ceed from any such process, however far it might be carried.
I should feel happier if the whole experiment could be repeated
with an entirely new list of words, but particularly the Sharplin-
Garrett part of it ;
indeed, one might say that this last is definitely
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 249
necessary in order to consolidate our results, since we have no satis-
factory replication so far. I should also like to see the same experi-
ment tried out with two or three good stock-company actresses
who had studied the characters of J and E so far as published and
known material permits, and were trying to project themselves into
those characters while under test.
Such remarks, however, referring respectively to a confirmation
and a sidelight, should not be taken as minimising the importance
of the results actually obtained, which I believe to be considerable.
This is not to say that I regard the autonomy of J and E to be
" proved " or even " established " by this experiment. So far as this
work is concerned, the spirits, if I may put it so, remain a good many
degrees below proof. On the other hand, I think that only ignorance
or bigotry could deny that the case for the operation of some non-
chance non-medium factor, that is to say an external factor, and
therefore for the " autonomy " in question, is very greatly strength-
ened by the results obtained, as compared with what would have
been the case if we had obtained insignificant results conforming
to the null hypothesis that there is no connection between the
mediums other than chance alone.
The natural and obvious explanation of the phenomena as a
whole, from the orthodox standpoint, would be that the entranced
mediums are highly suggestible and need little inducement to adopt
histrionic poses representing, as best they may, the personalities of
the supposed " communicators ". If this were so, we should expect,
it is true, that the general behaviour of the mediums in the relevant
states of control would be broadly coloured in conformity with
known characters of the persons concerned, but we certainly should
not expect this to be carried out in such minuteness as is involved in
differences of reaction times to common words of no particular
public interest ; such details, we should certainly imagine, would be
filled in in accordance with the personal idiosyncrasies of the
mediums. In other words, we should confidently expect that sets
of reaction times obtained from the " communicator " states would
be as randomly related as those from different people. This is
emphatically not the case, and to this extent the " natural and
obvious " explanation of the phenomena is quite definitely contra-
indicated.
250 Whatehj Caringtou, 31. A., 3f.Sc. [PABT
EXAMPLE I
Working of Z (
= 2z) for Differences (J - E)
Sharplin-Garrett : Occasion III, Group A
Word Shakplin Gakrett (J- E)
No. J E (J-E) J E (J - E) SUMS
1 0 18 - 18 0 18 - 18 -36 0
2 20 - 10 30 15 15 0 30 30
3 0 4 -4 18 -5 23 19 - 27
4 20 20 0 15 18 - 3 - 3 - 3
5 4 8 - 4 4 11 -7 - 11 3
6 4 8 - 4 11 - 15 26 22 - 30
7 11 - 30 41 - 10 15 - 25 16 66
8 8 23 - 15 -5 0 -5 - 20 - 10
9 11 4 7 0 -5 5 12 2
10 8 4 4 18 0 18 22 - 14
11 18 -5 23 - 15 8 -23 0 46
12 - 5 - 22 17 40 - 15 55 72 -38
13 15 - 15 30 - 15 -5 - 10 20 40
14 2.3 11 12 - 10 - 15 5 17 7
15 15 4 11 34 11 23 34 - 12
16 8 32 - 24 40 -5 45 21 - 69
17 0 11 -11 0 23 -23 -34 12
18 lo -5 -10 8 -18 -23 13
15 11 i ii 18
i-f
- 7
Q
— O i i
20 4 11 -7 38 0 38 31 -45
21 15 -22 37 -5 -5 0 37 37
22 0 -15 15 15 0 15 30 0
23 11 -10 21 -5 11 -16 5 37
24 8 0 8 18 15 3 11 5
25 4 -10 14 18 -5 23 37 -9
S(x) 235 53 182 220 96 124 306 58
Calculation of the Variances
Sums Differences
S(x2) - - - 18364 22620
xS(x) - - - - 3745-44 134-56
S(x-x)2 - - - 14618-56 22485-44
R - 1-5381
Z --4306
159] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 251
TABLE I A
Values op Z(2z) for Inter-medium Comparisons op (J - E)
Leonard-Garrett
Occn. Group A B C X 0 tell
T - - -2771 •5199 •3962 •1372
IT - - -0272 - ^2192 1630
TIT
XXX - - -3793 1985 - ^0734 •0236 - ^2306
IV 0420 - ^4275 6797 3696 •6638
Total - - - -6416 •0717 1-1655 - ^3544 •2412
Leonard-Sharplin
T
X - - -1852 - ^3729 •5923 - -3307
IT
X X •5076 - ^4039 - -2096 •1808 -0749
TIT
XXX •7372 - ^3458 - -2644 - -8310 - -7040
IV •0250 - ^1596 •4932 - •1778 •1808
Tnfnl 1-0846 -1-2822 •6115 - 1 -1 Q^?Q - -7790
Garrett-Sharplin
I - - -0546 •3453 - ^0124 1433 •4216
II - -7722 - -1230 - -1148 5714 - -4386
III - - •4306 •0572 - -4448 - 3589 -M771
IV - - ^7487 •3746 - •7881 - 7676 -r9298
Total - - - 2^0061 •6541 - 1^3601 - 4118 - 3^1239
TABLE I B
Values of Z for Inter-medium Comparisons of Feda : (F - J)
AND (F-E)
Leonard-Sharplin
1. Feda and John
I •1956 - -1526 - -1774 •5874 •4530
II •1692 - -6260 •1422 •0712 - ^2434
III •6341 •1832 - ^4927 •2365 •5611
Total - •9989 - ^5954 - ^5279 8951 7707
2. Feda and Etta
I •0432 - ^5669 •1491 - ^4887 - ^8633
II - - ^2290 2933 - -1489 •0813 - -0533
III 1^0501 - -2677 - ^6201 - ^2526 - ^0903
Total - 8643 - -5413 - ^6199 - ^7100 - 1^0069
N.B.—The results for Feda are completely insignificant, and are given
only for the sake of completeness. They will not be further discussed.
252 Robert H. Thouless [part
REPORT ON GLASGOW REPETITION OF DR RHINE'S
EXPERIMENTS ON EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION
By Robert H. Thouless
Some years ago I attempted a repetition of Dr Rhine's experiments
on extra-sensory perception. I have hesitated to pubhsh the
results since the numbers were small and I knew that Dr Soal was
carrying out a much more complete experiment in London. Since,
however, my experiments have sometimes been quoted and since
they throw some light on statistical questions raised in connection
with Rhine's work, it seems worth while to publish a short report of
the results.
The experiments of Rhine are now so well known as not to need
detailed description. There is a pack of 25 cards with five different
designs (circle, star, rectangle, waves and cross) and five specimens
of each design in the pack. The subject is required to guess which
of the five designs is printed on the face of each card in the pack,
the face of the card being invisible to him. If he is merely guessing,
it is expected that he will, on the average, get five right in each pack.
If he gets significantly more than five right under conditions which
preclude any normal means of gaining knowledge of the design, this
is taken to be evidence that he has some power of extra-sensory
perception (E.S.P.), that is of telepathy or clairvoyance or both
according to the conditions of the experiment.
My experiments were carried out under various conditions.
Generally the face of the card was visible to the experimenter and
the back visible to the subject if he cared to look at it. Some
experiments were witnessed but the majority were not. The subject
was sometimes not informed of successes until the pack was finished,
but more generally he was told after each successful guess. One
series (with myself as subject) was done by the '
pure clairvoyance
'
method. The conditions were generally not as rigid as would be
required for crucial experiments but my intention was to introduce
rigid control of conditions if positive results began to appear. At
no stage was there any sign of positive results, so the experiments
are here reported all together without any distinction of conditions.
In the Table below, I show the number of times each subject gets
0 right in a series of 25, the number of times he gets 1 right, etc.
This seems better than Rhine's method of merely reporting total
results, since this method would show if the capacity appeared
sporadically and rarely. Also it demonstrates the actual distribution
of successes.
159] Extra-Sensory Perception 253
TABLE OF RESULTS
Subject
0 1 2 3
Number Right
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
Total Expected
Total
S.T. 0 0 0 1 3 3 2 1 0 0 0 0 49 50
M.D. 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 20 20
D.D. 0 0 1 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 15 20
P.T. u 0 0 5 5 8 0 2 1 1 0 0 106 110
J.S. 0 1 0 2 2 3 3 4 1 0 0 0 84 80
M.L. 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 16 20
E.L. 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 18 20
W.B. 0 1 1 5 3 7 4 3 0 0 0 0 110 120
E.T. 0 0 4 4 7 6 5 3 3 2 0 0 171 170
A.C. 0 4 7 7 22 19 18 13 5 4 1 0 507 500
R.T. 0 1 3 3 2 5 1 4 1 0 0 0 91 100
W. 0 0 0 1 1 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 30 30
yj
1
± 9 1 1 0 0 n 1 A
u 9A
Y. 0 0 2 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 1 32 30
Z. 0 0 1 2 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 30 30
Totals 0 7 22 35 50 56 40 34 11 8 2 1 1305 1330
If nothing but chance were operative in producing the above
results, we should expect that the numbers in the bottom row would
be distributed in close agreement with the numbers obtained by
the expansion of the expression N(4/5 + l/5)-^ (where N is the
number of series of 25 guesses). The numbers observed and expected
on this hypothesis are shown below.
<2 2345 6 7 89 >9
Observed - 7 22 35 50 56 40 34 11 8 3
Expected - 7-3 18-9 36-1 49-7 52-2 43-5 29-5 16-6 7-8 4-6
Deviation
fromexpn. - -3 + 3-1 - M + -3 +3-8 -3-5 +4-5 -5-6 +-2 -1-6
These are only such deviations from expectation as might be
expected to occur by chance. This may be tested by summing the
squares of the deviations divided by the expected niunber in each
class and so obtaining the quantity which turns out to be 4-25, a
value which will be exceeded by chance alone in about nine observa-
tions in ten. Agreement with the expected logarithmic distribution
on the hypothesis that no subjects were showing extra-sensory
power is, therefore, perfectly satisfactory.
The same conclusion emerges if we examine the mean score and
standard deviation. If chance alone were operative, the expected
254 Robert H. Thouless
mean number of successes would be, of course, 5, aud, if the scores
were distributed on the expected logarithmic curve, the standard
deviation should be exactly 2. The observed mean is 4-906 and
the observed standard deviation is 1-93. The standard errors of
these are -23 and -16 respectively, so in each case the observed
deviation from expectation is a httle less than half the standard
deviation and the probabihty of chance occurrence is between -6
and -7.
Agreement with the chance hypothesis is unquestionable, there-
fore, either when the results are treated in mass (as in the last
paragraj^h) or when we consider (as in the earher calculation) expec-
tations of given numbers right in separate series of 25 guesses.
The advantage of considering expectation in separate series of
25 is that it might reveal the presence of extra-sensory perception
even if it occurred so rarely as to be swamped by chance results in
the total. It remains possible that E.S.P. occurs sporadically over
periods not long enough appreciably to affect whole series of 25, but
long enough to affect shorter sequences. If this were the case,
neither of the previous tests might reveal its presence but it might
be shown by a tendency for successive guesses to l)e right more
often than one would expect in a random distribution. I, therefore,
counted the number of single right guesses, of two successive right
guesses and so on.
The mean chance expectation of k successive right guesses can be
easily shown to be (26 - /i:)/5''= in each series of twenty-five guesses
if the probabihty of each single guess being correct is 1/5. From
this formula, we can find that the mean chance expectation of series
of only k successive right guesses {i.e. of a series of h right guesses
which is not part of a series of more than k right) is
(424-16A-)/5
for all values of k up to 24.
From this formula, we can compare ol)served and expected
numbers of single right guesses, of pairs of right guesses, etc., in any
number of series of 25 guesses. I have counted these for the first
241 series of 25 with the following result :
Consecutive right guesses 1 2 3 4 5 >5
Observed - - - 778 150 26 5 1 0
Expected - - - 786-6 151-2 29-0 5-55 1-06 -25
It is clear that there is no tendency for an excess of sequences of
right answers such as might be caused by occasional bursts of
E.S.P. capacity.
159] Extra-8ensory Perception 253'
All tests, therefore, show that these results are such as are to be
expected on the hypothesis that no E.S.P. power was shown by any
of the subjects. I do not wish it to be supposed that I am claimmg
that these are evidence against the reahty of Rhine's results. A
negative result by one worker cannot be regarded as a disproof of a
positive result obtained by another if the positive result has been
obtained under satisfactory experimental conditions.
I think that the results do show that the hope that Rhine has
discovered an easily repeatable technique for demonstrating E.S.P.
is not fulfilled. It is true that the number of cases is not large, but
in the prelimmary experiments reported in Rhine's first book, some
indication of positive results emerged from shorter series than this.
The question of the repeatabihty of Rhine's experiments depends
much more on Dr Soal's extended series of experiments than on my
own short one.
On one important point, I think I can give some support to Rhine.
Some o£his critics have doubted whether he was correct in assuming
2/5 X >/N as his standard error in a random distribution. One critic,
at least, even doubts whether 5 is the mean chance expectation of
number right per pack of 25. My results appear to be due solely to
chance and both the mean of 4-906 and the standard deviation of
1-93 are not significantly different from the expectations assumed
by Rhine of 5-0 and 2-0 respectively.
It is true that the fact that there are 5 cards of each kind in each
pack will tend to reduce the standard deviation unless subjects
guess exactly five of each kind also (obviously if subjects always
guessed the same card throughout a suit, the standard deviation
would be zero, although the mean chance expectation of five right
would remam. unchanged). The formula for allowing for this effect
has been given by Dr Stevens in a recent pubhcation. Since, how-
ever, this effect would reduce the standard deviation and, therefore,
the standard error, the ignoring of it is a mistake on the right side
suice it causes the significance to be underestimated. In my experi-
ments, at least, the effect of a non-equal distribution of guesses
between the five suits seems to be neghgibly small. In any case,
this effect would reduce the standard deviation and, therefore, the
standard error, so, in ignoring it, we are making a mistake on the
right side, which will lead only to an underestimation of the signifi-
cance of the evidence.
That my failure to reproduce Dr Rhine's result may have been
due to failure to reproduce his conditions, I am, of course, willing
to admit. The necessity for certain conditions not reproducible by
a conscientious and experienced experimenter is, however, a factor
o
256 Robert H. Thouless Extra-Sensory Perception [part
interfering with repeatability of the experiment. If E.S.P. is a
genuine phenomenon, it is to be hoped that investigators of it will
so standardise the conditions, that the results can be repeated in
any laboratory.
There is one point about the conditions which I should hke to
emphasise. It was always my wish to keep the subjects in a state
of beheving that they were getting positive results. Some were,
from the begimiing, unbeheving, but, ia many cases, this condition
appeared to be fulfilled. It is made easy by an important psycho-
logical factor, that people generally expect deviations from mean
chance expectation in a random series less frequently than they
actually occur. The most naive subjects were strongly impressed
by their success iu getting even five right out of twenty-five and the
less naive were strongly impressed if they got nine or ten right and
such an experience would keep them encouraged through many
series in which less than mean chance expectation was obtained.
It was iudeed easy to encourage subjects to beheve that they had
'
good ' and '
bad ' days, although the alternations of several
successful series with several unsuccessful ones turned out, on
critical examination, only to be such as would occur in a random
series. I may have failed to reproduce some essential condition for
successful demonstration of E.S.P. but I do not think it was lack
of faith in my subjects. With a httle care, this is one of the easiest
conditions to produce in most subjects who do a number of sets of
guesses.
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 257
A PROXY EXPERIMENT OF SIGNIFICANT SUCCESS
By C. Drayton Thomas
The proxy case here described is probably unique. Its special
interest lies in the fact that an intermediate person so arranged it that
the applicants had no link with sitter or medium until the experiment
was completed.
Despite this absence of contact the desired communicator produced
substantial evidence of his identity.
Two later experiments yielded interesting confirmation of the first.
CONTENTS
PAGE
Conditions of the Experiment ........ 258
References to Professional Work 260
Personal Memories 263
Friends and Acquaintances 267
Result of First Four Sittings 269
Second Part of the Experiment 270
Inference from Coincidences with Previous Sittings - - . 275
Concerning Inaccuracies 276
Experiments to Discover if Mrs Lewis could influence the
Communicator - 277
Was there Telepathy from Mrs Lewis? 278
Third Part of the Experiment 287
Analysis of Results -, 289
Remarks on the Whole Series 290
Note by Professor Dodds 294
Appendix :
1. Characteristics of Messages mabked Doubtful . - . 296
II. Coincidences with Earlier Sittings taken by Mrs Lewis - 300
258 C. Drayton Thornas [part
Frederic William Macaulay
In June 1936 Professor E. K. Dodds suggested that I should try to
obtain mformation at my sittings for a scientist friend of his and
sent me the following information to work upon :
Wilfred Stanley Lewis of Exeter requests a communication
from his father-in-law.
Finding that it would be some time before I could undertake this
experiment at my sittings with Mrs Leonard I promised to try with
another sensitive.
Professor Dodds (unknown to me) wrote to Professor Lewis as
follows :
" The friend who undertook to try for a proxy sitting on your
behalf has arranged one for Tuesday next, June 16, with a new
medium, not Mrs Leonard. The medium is not to be told the pur-
pose of the sitting, but I have asked my friend to concentrate before
the sitting on the following '
request ', —Wilfred Stanley Lewis of
Exeter requests a communication from his father-in-law. My
friend has been told nothing whatever about you except that you
are a distinguished man of science and that your wife has had super-
normal experiences and has had successful sittings with other
mediums. It seems to me that it might help, and could do no harm,
if your wife put up a '
request ' on her own to one or both of your
fathers-in-law to communicate at this sitting."
That sitting was a complete failure and in reporting this to
Professor Dodds I wrote :
" I will try if possible to get something with Mrs Leonard pre-
sently ; could you get me a rather better clue meanwhile. Merely
to ask my people to find the father-in-law of Mr Wilfred Stanley
Lewis of Exeter does not help much, as it omits the name of the
required person. Suppose you were asked to find the father-in-law
of anyone named as living in London, and the required individual
were said to be resident in Birmingham, you would be puzzled how
to proceed!
" Perhaps you could get me the name and the month of decease.
That might suflice."
Note.—I was unaware that the desired communicator had been
connected with Birmingham, and named that city in the above
illustration only because that was where Professor Dodds was then
residing.
To this letter he replied on June 21, 1936 :
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 259
" The person from whom a communication is desired in the Lewis
experiment is Frederic William Macaulay, who died May 20, 1933.
He was for the greater part of his life associated with Birmingham
(but was not known to me). It is suggested that the '
request
'
should be presented as coming from his daughter '
Emma '
(Mrs
Lewis), rather than from his son-in-law, whom he did not know so
intimately. They suggest also that if a communicator emerges who
might be identified as this F. W. Macaulay, the following question
might (if opportunity offers) be put to him at the sitting :
'
Can you
tell me anything of the two men with whom you were so closely
associated in your last unfinished piece of work?
It is important to remember, while reading the following account,
that the above includes everything known to me up to the end of
the fourth sitting ;
also that neither Mrs Lewis nor her husband
had had any intercourse with Mrs Leonard. Their earlier sittings
with Mrs Brittain, to which reference is made below, have never
been published.
No mention of the proposed experiment was made, either to Mrs
Leonard or to Feda her Control. The method I adopted was one
which had often led to success in proxy cases, and included an
appeal to the desired communicator in my study at home.
My sittings for the first part of the experiment were taken on the
following dates :
June 26, 1936, comprising paragraphs 1-22 in the record.
July 24, „ „ „ 23-44 „
Aug. 21, „ „ „ 45-51 „
Sept. 25, „ „ „ 52-80 „
At the first of these sittings Feda introduced a new communicator
tvithout any leading on my part. When she announced a stranger's
presence I remarked that I had invited someone. After the steno-
grapher had taken down 14 items of an apparently evidential char-
acter I named Frederic William Macaulay as the person from whom
I was hoping to hear. This I did to make sure of being on the right
track ; for it seemed unwise to waste time in uncertainty. Feda
stoutly insisted that we had the person I desired.
Mr Macaulay had been a water-engineer interested in hydraulics.
From messages given in the above sittings I select some references
to this occupation, as also to other of his interests and to certain
articles which he had been in the habit of using.
260 C. Drayton Thomas [part
References to Professional Work
(The annotations of Mrs Lewis, his daughter, are within
brackets. Figures in left margin denote the place of each
item in the full Leonard record : the first figure being the
number of the sitting.)
Date of sitting : June 26, 1936.
Feda : He pictures big stones built one on the top of the other.
This refers to the work he was doing before passing. The
1/5 letter " M " is shown over these stones, it is a name very
much linked with this work.
(Quite interesting ; he was constructing a very large dam
at the time of his death. The " M " might stand for the
county of Monmouth in which his work was being done.)
Feda : There is also a big initial " H ", another word connected
1/6 with the same thing.
(Possibly indicating hydraulic works. He was specially
interested in hydraulic engineering.)
Feda : He had completed a period of service a little while before
he passed. A circumscribed period of time came to a finish
1/7 not long before he passed, and January has to do with the
finish of the period.
(He retired into private practice just under three years
*
before his death. The certificate of safety for a reservoir,
the contraction of which he had begun before his retire-
ment, was given in the January before his death.)
Date of sitting : July 24, 1936.
Feda : An instrument is described as " steel and rather long
shaped ". He holds it in his hands. At one end there is
2/23-25 something that screws on to it and can be slid along. He
holds this instrument carefully, measuring something on
it, and holds it flat and then holds it up as if looking for a
mark.
(Might be a 2 ft. steel ruler, mounted on rollers and with
adjustable pointer that could be screwed into position
which my father always used (see sketch).)
Roller
^ Pointer Roller
-Q
Screw B—
Feda : About the two men he was working with ; one was much
linked with him over this instrument which they used in
doing special work together.
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 261
(One of the two men in particular was often in my father's
drawing of6.ce with him.)
He shows something like a table, long and rather narrow
for its length.
(The drawing ofl&ce had a long narrow table.)
They don't seem to be sitting, but standing near this
bench, bending over it a little.
(The table was built to stand at and not to sit at.)
Artificial light hangs over it and is adjustable.
(There were adjustable lights over this table.)
And I hear glass ; he makes me hear the tinkle of glass
and metal.
(The glass might be his glass tracing table. I can still
mentally hear the click of his steel rider on this.)
I hear a door closing with a sound as if not an ordinary
door. Something to stop it making a loud click as it
closes.
(In his office there was an automatic door-closing arrange-
ment.)
This room was frequently used by him. It had many
books connected with his work.
(There were many books on engineering and meteorology
in the room.)
Two further items, both said to be wrong, are discussed later in
this paper under the heading " Inaccuracies ".
Feda : I don't think he expected to pass over. He speaks about
a journey he was thinking of taking, and had made some
2/41 preparation for, only a httle while before he passed. He
(a) would like to have taken that journey but did not.
(I think the reference must mean Southend where the
Water Engineers were to meet. I have ascertained that
my father, who was for long a most active member of that
body, did intend to go to the Meeting.)
On inquiry at the Institution of Water Engineers I learn that the
date of their vSouthend Meeting was May 10, 1933 ; this was ten
days before Mr Macaulay's death and when his illness had become
troublesome.
Feda : A place beginning with the letter " S ", very much con-
(6) nected with him and his work. A place with a good many
letters in its name.
(\\Tien he came home from the AVest Indies he and his
family lived in Southampton for many years.)
262 C. Drayton Thomas [part
At the time of the sitting I supposed that both the above referred
to the same place, but it now seems probable that recollection of the
intended visit to Southend, or possibly similarity in name, brought
up memory of Southampton, which place the British Waterworks
Association had visited during its Meeting at Bournemouth in June
1932. Mr Macaulay had attended that meeting.
Date of sitting, September 25, 1936.
Feda : He shows me some books, not ordinary printed or reading
books, but books with his own handwriting in, as if he had
4/55 made an awful lot of notes. I am seeing the " R " again
and I think the notes would be in connection with this
name " R ".
(He did leave a mass of written notes about his work on
reservoirs.)
Feda : To do with his worlv. I feel a very strong light and a
counter or bench and a peculiar looking instrument which
4/61 I should think his daughter would know. It has a long
arm to it through which a little piece is sticking out, and
that piece goes up and down a little like a balance. It feels
very much like a weight thing, but not a big thing like
people stand on. He doesn't put weights on though, he
seems to put on it glasses and bits of metal. It is important.
(When I began to read the description of this instrument
I at once thought of an appliance which he frequently used
in his earlier work to test the strength of concrete. Blocks
of concrete were put in at a a and subjected to an in-
creasing stress till they fractured. He would examine the
pieces by a good Ught after breakage. Glass played no
part in the process.)
Mrs Lewis added the accompanying sketch :
o
Feda : There is another thing he does : he makes funny figures
and writes things down, not like 1, 2, 3, but different
4/63 figures that mean something, and he writes them in funny
169] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 263
h
I
I
-
I .
[r
I
i
Feda :
1/3
Feda :
1/4
Feda :
1/8
Feda :
1/9
Feda :
1/10
ways. They are like the Signs of the Zodiac, like the
writing on the parchments in the East.
(My father did a good deal of research in hydraulics, in
which subject Greek letters are used as well as figures.
This may be an attempt to convey the notation of the
subject. He often discussed his work with my brother and
myself, jotting down formulae and so forth on odd scraps
of paper as he talked.)
Personal Memories
Date of sitting, June 26, 1936.
He went rather quickly, and didn't think he was going ;
as if he felt " I have things to do and hope to live on and
do them ". Disappointed at having to go.
(He was advised to have an operation for the removal of
gall stones. Was working as usual on May 18, 1933, and
was dead by the morning of May 21. The attitude de-
scribed above echoes a hope he expressed to me that he
stiU had many years to go, as there was so much interesting
work to be done.)
Interrupted when he was writing important instructions
just before he passed.
(Written instructions about work and the general disposi-
tion of his alfairs were left unfinished.)
He had a presentation not long before he passed over, with
a name and certain details inscribed on it.
(He had a presentation, accompanied by an illuminated
address ; this was in 1930, exactly three years before his
death.)
He was liked in two ways, in his work and in a hobby.
This second string to his bow he did not do for money.
It was good work for which people were grateful. When
he passed there was pubhc mention made of this.
(He used to say that he had two hobbies,—his work as an
engineer and the work of helping young engineers. He
had many tributes from young men whom he had assisted
in a variety of ways.)
Has his daughter a special cup that he drank from and
that he could show to people, or people might ask to see?
Not an ordinary thing.
(He had several silver tankards which he won shooting at
264 C. Drayton Thomas [part
Bisley. He drank from these. Each, of his five children
has one now.)
Feda : He had not been well for two or three years, but did not
1/11 regard it seriously.
(Some two years before his death my father began to have
attacks of pain in his back and side. His doctor dismissed
them as lumbago until shortly before his death, when a
specialist was consulted and diagnosed the presence of
gall stones. My father did not worry much until the last
severe attack when the specialist was called in.)
Feda : Two months before the end he had disquieting symptoms
that seemed serious, but it was only a short time before
his passing that he realised its seriousness. He says,
—
" My heart seemed very tired," something affected it.
(Two months before the end he spoke rather despondently
to his son-in-law about " always feeling tired ", and said
that it was a great happiness to know that, should he not
have much longer to live, his children were all settled and
happy.)
Feda : He began life in one place, then spent the rest of it in a
1/19 very different kind of place. Very different conditions
between them.
(He spent his boyhood in the West Indies and the rest of
his life in England or Ireland.)
Date of sitting : July 24, 1936.
Feda : His daughter has been a little stirprised, hasn't she, about
something in a material way? Something he had not
2/33 got? Something financial that he had not got, which she
thought he had got,—that he had not left something. As
if she said, " Why hasn't he got it? " One particular
thing, not quite so much of it as they expected. But in
another way there was. They would not be unduly worried
because other things made it balance, but they would be
puzzled.
(Correct. We did wonder where money which had come
from one particular source had gone. But things did
" balance ". My father had inherited about £6,000 from
a great aunt. We knew that he had had certain losses
during the Great War from money invested abroad ; but
this particular sum was invested at home and we did not
know, imtil after his death, that he had realised the capital
and used it—chiefly to help needy friends and relations.
A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 265
At the same time " Things did balance " in the sense that
my mother, though she could not enjoy the income from
this sum, was left very comfortably off. And the family
felt it was quite fair as much of the money had been spent
on a relative of hers, and some to pay off her own debts.)
Sets of boxes. He had what he calls a nest or set of boxes
that he was very interested in, and he used to keep things
in them. Several of them and they all seem to fit into
each other, to fit in together into something that looks
like a case over them. It seems important to him. I
don't thinlv they were all full.
(His treasured tool chest was a nest of drawers. He
delighted in tinkering about the house and garden, and
always kept all tools, nails, screws, and so forth in perfect
order.)
Date of sitting : August 21, 1936.
There is also a John and a Harry, both with him. And
Race . . . Rice . . . Riss ... it might be Reece but sounds
like Riss, and Francis. These are all names of people who
were connected with him or linked up with him in the
past, connected with happy times. I get a feeling of an
active and busy home in which he was rather happy.
(This is a very curious passage, taken in conjunction with
" they are connected with rather happy times. I get a
feeling of an active and busy home in which he was rather
happy." Probably the happiest time of my father's life
was in the four or five years before the war, when we, his
five children, were all at school, and the home was packed
with our friends during the holidays. John, Harry and
Francis could be three of these. Francis is certainly dead
—I do not know about John and Harry. But the most
interesting passage is "It might be Reece but it sounds
like Riss ". This carries me back to a family joke of these
pre-war days. My elder brother was at school at Shrews-
bury and there conceived a kind of hero-worship for one
of the " Tweaks " (sixth form boys) whose name was
Rees. He wrote home about him several times and always
drew attention to the fact that the name was spelt " Rees
"
and not " Reece ". In the holidays my sister and I used
to tease him by singing " Not Reece but Riss " until my
father stopped us, explaining how sensitive a matter a
yoimg boy's hero-worship was. I think Rees was killed
266 "
C. Drayton Thomas ' " [pabt
in the Great War. He was never at our house, but we had
him carefully pointed out to us whenever we were at
Shrewsbury. This Reece-Riss reference is quite charac-
teristic of other sittings I have had in which have been
made quaint little references to small matters that yet are
important with reference to my father.)
Date of sitting : September 25, 1936.
Feda : This gentleman would have had pains in his limbs? I get
4/56 rather a stiff feeling and aches in the limbs. Something
he suffered from in later years.
(These were symptoms of his last illness.)
Feda : Also a peculiar feehng in one hand too. Will you ask his
daughter if there was something about one hand that made
4/57 it uneasy sometimes. Something not quite right with one
hand. I feel he had done something to one hand that
would make it a little different from an ordinary person's
hand.
(About a year before his death he had severe blood poison-
ing in one hand. I believe it was always tender after-
wards.)
Feda : I get a funny word now . . . would he be interested in . . .
baths of some kind? Ah, he says I have got the right
4/67 word, baths. He spells it B A T H S. His daughter will
understand, he says. It is not something quite ordinary,
but feels something special.
(This is, to me, the most interesting thing that has yet
emerged. Baths were always a matter of joke in our
family—my father being very emphatic that water must
not be wasted by our having too big baths or by leaving
the taps dripping. It is difficult to explain how intimate
a detail this seems. A year or two before his death my
father broadcast in the Midland Children's Hour on " Water
Supply " and his five children were delighted to hear on
the air the familiar admonitions about big, wasteful baths
and dripping taps. The mention of baths here also seems
to me an indication of my father's quaint humour, a
characteristic which has hitherto been missing. I should
add that, as Water Engineer to a city where the water
consumption was very great and at times in excess of the
supply, my father was very interested in baths, taps and
all distribution fittings. He was a member of a Committee
which standardised the two latter, and persuaded his Water
159] A Proxy Experime7it of Significant Success 267
Committee to adopt these standardisations. He also
advocated the installation in new houses of small baths.)
Mrs Lewis wrote later : '"I think the missing characteristic, his
whimsical humour, emerged in this Baths reference." This refers
to a remark in one of her previous letters to Professor Dodds, that,
in the first sittings, she missed one of her father's characteristics.
What this characteristic was she did not state until writing the above
comment.
Friends and Acquaintances
Date of sitting : June 26, 1936.
Feda : The man whose daughter wants to hear about him is here
and someone called Alfred is linked up with him and is
1/15 very important to him. A " T " and a " J " connected
with him. There is something about this man Alfred that
I think will be very interesting.
(Alfred, who died many years ago, was probably his closest
young friend after his own relations. Alfred's second
Christian name began with " T " but I have no means of
finding out if " J " apphed to him also.)
Date of sitting : July 24, 1936.
Feda : There is a man James near him, not on the earth. James
2/26 passed over some time before him. He likes being with
him very much.
Feda : James again, and with him comes a lady called Mary.
2/30
Feda : You said his name was Macaulay. Well, he is giving me
another Mac name, but not that. Somebody he was very
2/31 close to on earth, very near indeed, and his daughter will
know whom he means. She has been thinking something
about this Mac person a httle while ago.
(James McCance had a daughter Mary who died a few
months ago.)
Mrs Lewis wrote more fully at a later date, i.e. November 23,
1937, when the whole experiment had ended, regarding her father's
friendship and affection for his cousin James McCance :
(I do not think I have sufficiently emphasised the very
close friendship that existed between him and James
McCance. After his father, mother, grandmother and
brother, James would have been by far the most likely
268 C. Drayton Thomas [part
person for liini to seek out. They were, indeed, more at
one in their tastes than my father was with the other
relations I have mentioned ; the tie with them was more
purely affectionate. Next to James and Ernest would
probably come Alfred who was always called " Fred " or
" Freddie " by my father. These two are both friends of
his youth and middle age.)
For the names Alfred and Ernest see paragraphs 1/15,
5/91 (pp. 267, 271).
Date of sitting, September 25, 1936.
Feda : There is a very old man with him who passed a good bit
before he himself did, one much linked up with him and
4/66 who would be interested to meet him again. Quite an old
man and very white.
(The description could apply to my father's first " chief"
James.)
Before he passed he would have been what you call a bit
doddery. This old man would have been in bed for some
weeks before passing ; some people would find him rather
difficult, but he was very clever and rather an unusual
sort of man, rather peculiar. This F. W. gentleman knew
him very well. Now they have many things to talk about.
(I have heard my father say that James was becoming
" doddery " before his death. He also said how very
" difiicult " some people found him. Mr Drayton Thomas
spoke my father's name the wrong way round, but Feda
has the initials in the correct order. I mention this
because my father hated to have his name incorrectly
arranged.)
Yes, I had inadvertently given the name as WiUiam Frederick
Macaulay. It may be of interest to remark that the full name had
been spoken by me to Feda only twice, and that was during the
first sitting three months before.
Feda :
" Minster " or something-minster. Please ask the daughter
if she remembers a name that would be famihar to him,
4/68 and it is something-minster. Minster isn't all the word,
I feel I am missing part of it. Sometimes there is a con-
nection between what they have just said and what they
go on to. If people took the trouble they could always
trace the possible connections.
(The James referred to above, and no connection with
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 269
James McCance of 2/31, had his offices in Victoria Street,
Westminster. My father worked there for a few years
and was later his assistant engineer in the provinces for
many more years ;
moreover, when my father retired
from his post in Birmingham, he became partner in the
firm of Rolf & Rafferty of Westminster.)
Feda : He is trying to give me something to do with eyesight or
eyes. It wasn't so bad, but there was worry over it.
4/69-70 Godfrey ; will you ask the daughter if she remembers
someone called Godfrey. That name is a great link with
old times.
(My father's most trusted clerk, one who specially helped
in the hydraulic research, was called Wilham Godfrey.
He was with my father for years and I remember him from
almost my earhest childhood. He has recently been
gravely ill and my father would certainly be interested
in his progress. The reference to eyesight might possibly
refer to this Godfrey who did have great trouble with his
eyes latterly. At the same time my father also complained,
towards the end of his life, that reading and close work
tired his eyes excessively and gave him headaches. It
was a very common gesture of his at this time to take oS
his glasses and rub his eyes, a thing I had not seen him
do before though he had worn glasses for years.)
Feda : What is that? . . . Peggy . . . Peggy . . . Puggy ... he is
giving me a little name like Puggy or Peggy. Sounds like
4/79 a special name, a little special nickname, and I thinli it is
something his daughter would know. Poggy, Puggy or
Peggy. I think there is a "
y " on it.
(My father sometimes called me " pug-nose " or " Puggy".)
Result of First Four Sittings
Out of the 94 items given during four sittings this communicator
was successful 70 times. Such a proportion of accuracy—74-4 per
cent.—places the result beyond anything attributable to chance
coincidence.
Professor Dodds suggested an original system for marking these
records. We used his method independently and then compared
our results. We were in agreement save that he had given a slightly
lower mark for items relating to the communicator's interest in
engineering. This he did on the assumption that such interest
might have been assumed by the medium or Feda after the first
270 C. Drayton Thomas [part
reference to engineering. I did not lower the marking for these
because, at the time they were given, neither Feda nor I had any
inkling that they were true to fact. The net result of this small
difference in our valuation is, however, almost negligible. Hence
it seems simpler to use, for this paper, my own marking in which
" Right, Good, Fair " are counted as successful, while " Poor,
Doubtful, Wrong " are failures.
The numerical analysis of the four sittings is :
Right - 36 Poor - 2
Good - 10 Doubtful 19 Total Number op Items 94
Fair - - 24 Wrong - 3 Successes, 74-4 per cent.
70 24
Such a result, in the absence of any link between applicants and
sitter, strongly supports the argument for telepathic communication
by the " deceased " F. W. Macaulay.
Second Part of the Experiment with Mr Macaulay
January 22, 1937
After I had seen Mrs Lewis's annotations to the foregoing it was
suggested by Professor Dodds in a letter dated December 2, 1936,
that I should ask the same communicator to say something about
his daughter's recent visit to Ireland. He added that this request
had reached him " some time ago ". No further clues about this
visit were given me.
I decided to try. Mentally, while at home, I asked Mr Macaulay
to attend my next sitting and to speak about his daughter's Irish
visit. It was thus some two months after Mrs Lewis' request to
Professor Dodds that I made the attempt, and it was fully seventeen
weeks since the last Macaulay communication, during which interval
I had taken seven sittings. Yet Mr Macaulay was now introduced
by Feda without any inquiry or remark by me, save that I gave his
name when informed that a man was present about whom Feda
asked whether I wished to give him an opportunity of speaking.
Here is the verbatim report of that introduction :
Feda : Now . . . Just wait a minute. ... I don't want to waste
time on him if he is not wanted, but were you expecting
a man?
C. D. T. : I was. I want Mr F. W. Macaulay. We have had him
here before and I have asked him to come to-day.
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 271
Well, he is here, and has he got a daughter on the earth?
Yes.
That is the one then, because he says, " Daughter wants
more and friend also. Yes, friend . . . friend ... a man
wants to know something as weU."
(This last remark possibly referred to the fact that Pro-
fessor Lewis had suggested my asking for messages from
his first wife ; I had not intended to introduce that re-
quest until the close of this sitting.)
Of the 30 evidential items given in this sitting 10 referred to the
Irish visit, and the others to the communicator's interests.
If I quote a few of these items it will enable readers to follow the
allusions made by Mrs Lewis after studying the record.
Feda : I keep getting the name Ernest, but I don't know whether
he is on the earth or passed over. I have had it two or
5/91 three times but didn't give it before because I don't know
which side he is on. But I feel something is happening
about Ernest that is rather important.
(My father's very closest friend was called Ernest. They
were at the University together and were never long
without seeing one another. Ernest outUved my father.
He was still alive during the early sittings.)
Feda : He wishes to say to his daughter, " Glad Tidings ". I
don't know what he means but it is something happy
5/92 relating to what he is helping from the other side to bring
about.
(Shortly after the date of this sitting I received news
which was real " Glad Tidings ", —namely that my
^ favourite brother, who had been in Canada for ten years
and whom we all, my father included, longed to have in
England again, was at last in a position to return home. . . .
One reason why my father so wanted my brother home
was that he has a son. My father used to say : "I don't
want the Macaulays to become a Canadian family. If
Hugh (the brother) were here, young Dick (tlie son) might
one day '
retrieve the family fortunes '
and buy back
Ben Neagh " (the Irish House).)
C. D. T. : Your daughter wanted to know if you would like to say
anything about her recent visit to Ireland.
Feda : He says. Yes, that has some connection with the glad
tidings of which he just spoke. He says that he got
your message. He doesn't say his daughter's but yours.
p
Feda :
C. D. T. :
Feda :
272 C. Drayton Thomas [PAET
As previously remarked I had, two days before this sitting,
mentally invited Mr Macaulay to be present and give more informa-
tion. It was the first time I had done so since the previous series
ended four months before. Mrs Lewis was not informed that I
proposed to resume the attempt at this date, but merely that I would
try again. I did not mention to anybody that I proposed to do so
just now.
Feda : Wliile his daughter was in Ireland there was an anniver-
5/93 sary in which he was interested.
(Whilst in Ireland my husband and I celebrated the
anniversary of our engagement. The anniversary of my
father's marriage also fell within this period.)
Feda : She thinks of a name Whit-something or White. . . . Was
5/95 that linked with her being in Ireland ^
(We have relations called White in Belfast.)
Feda : At a place " B ", was she interested there in a public
5/96-7 building or public institution that he would be interested
in also? He feels she was.
(This is interesting. The son of the architect of several
of the best buildings in Belfast was a great friend of my
father. When I was a child these two took me to see these
buildings. I, in my turn, showed them to my husband
on this visit, telling him all I could remember of my
childhood's experience.)
Feda : Part of the time she was in town and part in countrified
5/97 (o) siirroundings.
(I was partly in Belfast and partly in the countryside of
Antrim.)
Feda : He felt she was in the midst of trams and doing something
5/98 that made her think of him.
(This is another interesting point. I was really nervous
driving our car amongst the Belfast tram lines and the
speeding trams. Several times I told my husband how
my father had hated being driven where there were trams.
Indeed he would go miles out of his way to avoid them.)
Feda : A public building and trams, rather a wide space or
5/99 square, big and open near it or round it. He gives the
word " memorial ".
(We visited the Belfast Memorial and I thought there of
my father.)
Having been there myself I can say that the above description
fits it admirably.—C. D. T.
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 273
Feda : He thinks his writing need not be wasted, something
5/83 might be got out of the writings he left.
C. D. T. : Who could do that?
Feda : There is a friend on the earth whom he could impress.
C. D. T. : Would that be his son-in-law?
Feda : I think so. He says, " Not a relation exactly ", but one
linked with him on whom he looks as a friend.
(This might possibly refer to a great mass of meteorolo-
logical observations which my father had made over a
certain catchment area in Central Wales. He had, as a
matter of fact, discussed these with my husband who is,
•
as a geographer, also interested in meteorology. My
husband says that he could indeed handle this material
;
but that he does not consider himself competent to deal
with the hydraulic work.)
Feda : This man is somewhat psychic and gets impressions on
5/84 which he often acts although he has a well balanced mind.
(This is certainly true of my husband. His " hunches ",
as he calls them, were a source of amusement and interest
to my father.)
Feda ; He gives the letter " S " to do with that person ; it may
not be the proper name, but yet quite fitting ; it may
5/85 be some special name, but it is one he knows about and
you may not.
(This is ciirious. When I first met my husband I always
called him Stanley and so introduced him to my people.
On the eve of my wedding, at the instance of his mother,
I began to call him Wilfred. My father died before he
had become fully accustomed to the name and frequently
reverted to Stanley. In a sitting which my husband and
I had with Mrs Brittain in June 1933, 1 made the following
note : The Control said, " The lady's Daddy speaks of
. the gentleman ; but he says Stanley, Stanley—not
Wilfred, like the lady says.")
Feda : Was this Mr Macaulay a researcher of some kind? Not
a psychical researcher but of something else. He always
5/87 wanted fuller information. He read much about it and
went somewhere where he could study this " M " subject.
(" M " is possibly a reference to Meteorology.)
Feda : Drawings and diagrams had to do with his work. He could
5/88 make them himself but had people to do them for him.
(Correct : diagrams, maps and plans of the region in
Monmouthshire where he was constructing a reservoir.)
274 C. Drayton Thomas [PART
[a) He refers to this because he was studying a special
set of diagrams not long before he passed.
(He did leave, on a certain table in his study—quite
apart from anything else—a plan upon which he had him-
self drawn and coloured-in certain sections and made notes.
)
(6) He wished to complete it before he passed and a name
" G " was much linl^ed with these studies and work.
(He was helped in all his work, and greatly helped, by a
former governess in the family whom we all call Gibbie.)
(c) I had, he says, copied with my own hand parts of the
plan and made notes which I left a little separate from
my other work. It was more than plans, the work was
actually being done, going on, which he wished to com-
plete when he passed over.
(As I have already said, he died while this work was being
done and was still engaged upon it four days before his
death.)
He says " Institution ", as if he had been linked with a
special institution, but not always the same one.
(He was closely associated with the Institution of Civil
Engineers, and with the Institution of Water Engineers,
being on the Council of the former and a President of the
latter.)
Whereas many such societies are called Institutes, the two to
which Mr Macaulay belonged are termed Institutions, and that is
the word used by Feda.
Mrs Lewis made comment on this sitting :
" In view of the idea that mediums may be telepathicaUy influ-
enced by the sitter, it is interesting to note that, though Mr Drayton
Thomas, at this sitting, knew quite a number of details about my
father, no more definite information is given on points about which
he was fairly well informed. Instead, quite new ground is broken
about the subject beginning with " M ", which my husband might
be able to handle.
" It seems also, in my opinion, that the references to the '
public
buildings '
and the '
trams '
in connection with Ireland are striking.
Both brought my father very forcibly into my mind."
Ten items related to this Irish visit ; of these but two were wrong.
One, apparently some slip in transmission, reads that his daughter
was not thinking of him while in Ireland ; the other referred to
some gathering of people at 11.30 one morning at which he was
being spoken of.
Feda
5/89
Feda
5/106
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 275
For the whole sitting there were twenty-five successes and five
failures. The detailed valuations being :
Right
Good
Fair
Irish
References
- 5
- 0
- 3
Other
References
10
2
5
Totals
15
2
8
Poor
Doubtful
Wrong -
0
0
3
0
3
0
25 successes.
0
3
2
5 failures.
Number of items, 30 ;
Successes, 83-3 per cent.
To what shall we attribute this increased percentage of success?
I had in the meantime seen several letters from the applicants which
were forwarded to me by Professor Dodds. Did the sight or hand-
ling of these letters establish a link whereby the appHcant's know-
ledge passed telepathically to me or to the medium? I do not think
so, but attribute the improvement to practice in the preceding four
sittings. This may have famiUarised the communicator with tele-
pathic procedure so that he was now better able to transmit his
prearranged material. I think we may postpone this question for
awhile, merely noting that, since this fifth sitting attained a higher
degree of success than the previous four, it might be expected that
the same communicator would do better still if the sittings were
continued. They were continued, but a different communicator was
asked for. What was the result? We shall presently see that the
falling off in evidential quality was immediate and definite, a result
suggesting that we now had a different person originating the
messages.
Inference from Coincidences with Previous Sittings
Appended to this account, see Appendix 2, is a list of items which
were given some years earher by Mj Macaulay when communicat-
ing with his daughter through other sensitives shortly after his
death.
It was only by a happy chance that I noticed these coincidences
when Mrs Lewis kindly allowed me to see records of her earher
investigations in mediumship. It will be observed that no fewer
than ten matters which the Macaulay communicator had given three
276 C. Drayton Thomas [part
years earlier through other sensitives he now repeated through Mrs
Leonard when I took proxy sittings on behalf of his daughter at
the request of Professor Dodds.
This seems fairly conclusive evidence that both sets of messages
originated in the same mind. If Mr Macaulay gave them at his
daughter's earUer sittings, as she found reason to believe, then it
was he who repeated them through Mrs Leonard. (See final note at
end of Appendix 2.)
Eight of these coinciding references occurred during my first four
sittings, that is to say, before I had seen Mrs Lewis's handwriting
or heard of her verifications.
That telepathy from Mr Macaulay's daughter or son-in-law played
no part in the Leonard sittings is further indicated by the fact that,
after my seeing their letters to Professor Dodds, the four further
sittings produced only two more of these previously given items.
As before remarked, neither Professor Lewis nor his wife had met
Mrs Leonard.
Concerning Inaccuracies
In the first 4 sittings there were
—
Wrong 3 ; Doubtful 19 ; out of 94 Items.
In the 5th „ 2 ; „ 3 „ 30 „
5 22 124
If one were asked to write 124 statements about a person of whom
no more was known than I and Mrs Leonard knew of Mr Macaulay,
it is improbable that the inaccuracies would be limited to five, or
the remarks of doubtful applicability so few as twenty-two.
It is further highly probable that the quality of the wrong and of
the doubtful statements in such fictitious experiment would be
glaringly worse than that of the Macaulay sittings.
A brief examination of the failures is appended to this paper (see
Appendix I). It reveals the fact that errors were mostly trivial, while
a large proportion of the doubtful items were attempts at personal
names. In Leonard sittings there is frequent difficulty and partial
failure in the transmission of names.
Reviewing these five sittings as a whole we find that the infor-
mation offered as evidence of personal identity is strikingly applic-
able to Mr. F. W. Macaulay. This is his daughter's verdict ; and
it is confirmed, for those of us who did not know him, by the infor-
mation about his work, his friends, and his personal belongings,
which is provided by his daughter's annotations.
169] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 277
The messages have all the appearance of coming from Mr
Macaulay. Making allowance for occasional blurrings in trans-
mission, it looks just as if the material had been selected and given
by him for the purjMse of indicating his identity.
Those to whom it seems incredible that dead persons survive in
some other state of being, or that, if surviving, they can make
temporary use of psychic channels to resume intercourse with earth,
—for such minds there is an urge to suggest alternative explana-
tions.
What are the most hopeful of such alternatives? Perhaps to
doubt the veracity of those taking part in this experiment, or to
think that all might be explained by telepathy from Mrs Lewis to
Mrs Leonard.
We may profitably address ourselves to a consideration of this
latter alternative. Let us examine certain features of the messages
and note their bearing on the telepathic hypothesis.
Experiments to Discover if Mrs Lewis could Influence
THE Macaulay Communicator
After the second Macaulay sitting Professor Dodds wrote to Mrs
Lewis :
" It might be interesting if you tried to convey to your father a
request that he should refer at the next Leonard sitting to some
specific topic of your own choice (some interest of your childhood, for
example). It might be advisable to write down a short statement of
this topic and post it to me."
Mrs Lewis chose such a topic and sent a note of it which Professor
Dodds received on August 21, 1937, which was the day of my fourth
sitting. Neither then nor later was the matter in any way referred
to at the sittings.
Mrs Lewis made a further attempt on December 13, 1937, when
asking her father to send me a message which I should feel compelled
to forward to her. A copy of the request was sent to me in a sealed
envelope which I was not to open. It therefore remained unopened
until December 1938, when I noticed it while finally examining all
material for purposes of this paper.
The note reads : "I have asked my father to try and send me a
message which you will feel compelled to forward to me. I leave
the subject matter to him ; but he is to be urgent about it. I have
also asked that he shall not mention this sealed envelope to you, but
shall be so emphatic about the message that you will open it. Eve
Lewis. December 13, 1937."
278 C. Drayton Thomas [past
My records of sittings contain no message from Mr Macaulay later
than his communications of January 22, 1937, about the Irish visit.
I have never been aware of any urge to open the envelope and had
forgotten its existence.
In neither of these minor experiments do we find any evidence
that Mrs Lewis could influence the messages given in Leonard
sittings or impress my consciousness.
Was there Telepathy from Mrs Lewis?
Such successes as have so far attended experimental telepathy
show that ideas caught by the recipient were sometimes those which
the person transmitting desired to send ; but at other times the
received ideas had not been in the forefront of the agent's mind
although familiar to him.
We cannot be sure that thoughts about her father would pass
telepathically from Mrs Lewis more easily while she was thinking of
my proxy sittings : nor do we know that, while she was engrossed
in other matters, her subconscious memories about him could more
easily reach me or Mrs Leonard. Indeed we know so little of the
laws governing the telepathic processes that dogmatism is entirely
out of place.
What we actually discover in these records is that, while much
referred to matters within the daughter's knowledge, the communi-
cator was able to insert three items based on information which she
did not share : I shall refer to these items under the titles of
" Gibbie ", " Disappointment " and " Glad Tidings " (see pp. 283-
285). Let us first consider the absence of reply to a request for
information about Mr Macaulay's colleagues. The answer to this
might have been given in various ways, the simplest being the state-
ment " both have died ".
I presume that Mrs Lewis hoped for this and possibly expected
it ; the answer was certainly in her mind both consciously and sub-
consciously. Had she been capable of influencing my sittings tele-
pathically it is exactly here that we might look for evidence of that
abihty. Inference from silence is unreliable, but, for what it is
worth, it here tells against telepathy from Mrs Lewis.
The following extracts contain everything said, whether by me or
by the communicator, on this subject.
Professor Dodds, when informing me of the applicant's wish for
a message from Mr Macaulay, wrote, " If a communicator emerges
who might be identified as this F. W. Macaulay, the following question
might (if opportunity offers) be put to him at the sitting :
'
Can you
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 279
tell me anything of the two men with whom you were so closely
associated in your last unfinished piece of work? '
"
Sitting 1, paragraph, 4.
C. D. T. : Your daughter is very anxious to have some evidence of
your identity. She asks if you remember, and would care
to say something about, two men who were connected
with you in the last bit of work that you did and which
you were not able to finish?
To this Feda repUed that he recognised about the daughter and
about the two men ; she then passed on to descriptions of the com-
municator's work.
Sitting 2, faragraph 23.
C. D. T. : Yom- daughter will be so glad to hear from you, and she
thought if you had any difficulty about proving your
identity you could easily do it by giving information about
those two men with whom you used to work when you
passed over and left your work unfinished.
Feda : He knows what you mean.
There immediately followed the description of an instrument
which is recognised as one regularly used by Mr Macaulay in his
office. The message then continued :
Feda : You said two men he was working with, didn't you? Well,
there was one who was very much finked up with him
over this instrument. They were doing some special work
together in which they used this particular instrument.
(Mrs Lewis writes : He and one of the two men in par-
ticular were often in my father's drawing office.)
Feda next gave several particulars about this office and added :
One of the two men—both the men he worked with seem
to be on earth still ; because he is talking of one man of
the two who seems to be away somewhere. One—but
where is the other one then? I think I have got this
right. There is a man who is on the earth who worked
with him, but he seems to be going away. There is some
change round this man.
(The two men I had in mind when asking the question are
both dead. Of his many other coUeagues I cannot speak.)
Such a reply camiot be regarded as due to the daughter's tele-
pathic activity.
280 C. Drayton Thomas [part
Sitting 3, paragra'ph 45.
On Feda's remarking that the communicator was present I read
aloud a message sent for that purpose by Professor Dodds. It
included the following :
C. D. T. : It might be useful to say that the two men about whom
we asked were Dr L. and Major L. and may I say that
the Doctor's Christian name begins with P.—Dr P. L.
And the Major's name begins with two L's. Your daugh-
ter thinks that the lady of whom you spoke is Gibbie.
She is very much worried about the Gibbie situation and
can you advise her about this?
It was probably unwise to put more than one question at a time.
The reply dealt with the last one only and did not allude to the two
men.
Sitting 4, paragraph 53.
C. D. T. : His daughter says ... if her father felt inclined she would
like to hear a little more about the two men he used to
work with, Dr L. and Major L. that she would know . . .
Anything you like to say to your daughter she will be
very pleased to hear, also anything for your friends.
Feda : Well, he would very much like to do that. Will you please
leave the suggestions with him and he will deal with them
as he can in between other things.
No further allusion was made to the two men and I reproach
myself for omitting to renew the request at the fifth sitting.
Whatever the originating mind from which came so many in-
timate references to Mr Macaulay's professional work, his personal
memories and other matters, we can scarcely credit that it was
wholly ignorant of these colleagues with whom he was working at
the time of his death.
That this reiterated question was overlooked, or disregarded in
favour of other evidential material, seems to me the most probable
explanation of the silence. And it does, at least, find some support
in the obvious difiiculties of the transmission process. We find hints
of those difiiculties in the following passages :
Sitting 1, paragraph 9.
C. D. T. : That seems to suggest Free Masonry.
Feda : Well, don't suggest at all ; he says you might lead him
off on a wrong track that he doesn't want to go on. Don't -
suggest, he says.
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 281
Sitting 3, paragra'ph 52.
Feda : He is just waiting a minute because there was something
he wanted to think about ; so while he is thinking about
it I will go on to something else.
Another communicator was then introduced. Towards the end
of the sitting Feda reverted to Mr Macaulay.
Feda : Oh, that gentleman hasn't waited. I thought he was only
just going to step back a bit, but I suppose he gave all
he could.
C. D. T. : He has not told us about . . . those two gentlemen.
Feda : No. I left that with him, he is going to think that over.
He gave some new things to-day. They can't always
elucidate things they are wanted to; They can't do
anything just to order, they have got to prepare it them-
selves and then get it through.
Sitting 4, faragraph 58.
The following paragraph suggests difficulty and is also remarkable
because of the direct voice which occurred no less than sis times.
By that I mean that the words printed in italics in the extracts
that follow were heard by me and the stenographer in a loud whisper
which was strikingly different from the Feda voice. It sounded on
each occasion as if produced some twelve or more inches from the
medium's Hps. This repetition of direct voice is the more striking
as there was but one other instance of it in the whole sitting.
Feda : Ideas. . . . He says his ideas have altered very much
about his work since he passed over. He is still interested
in his work, but he has got such different ideas about it
that if he came back he would want to continue. . . .
Wait a moment. . . . He is giving me such a strong look
—He would want to continue the same work on entirely
different methods. The methods were wrong ; he says,
I am going to try and help the people with whom I was
working on earth. I will try to tell you some more as
I go on, but it is difficult to express myself in this way
—
in—something terminology—not the right terininology.
He says the methods were leading on a wrong line, but
we were following them up because they seemed to lead
somewhere. But later on, if we persisted, we shall find
we have got to retrace our steps.
Sitting 4, paragraph 80.
Feda : He is showing me like a place where he would go up hUl,
282 C. Drayton Thomas [PAUT
a place he was very, very interested in. (Pause.) I feel
that that is it, do you see, because though he shows me a
little quick qicture he didn't show me going anywhere ;
He just said it was a place that he was very much interested
in. Now what are you showing me?—He is stopping.
I don't know whether he is going away.
What of this failiire to answer the question? I have not found
that questions about facts unknown to the person taking a proxy
sitting are usually unanswered. On the contrary they sometimes
ehcit quite good replies indicating knowledge which the deceased
was known to possess. When questions are put by relatives who
are themselves present at a sitting their deceased friend does not
invariably reply. It may be that he prefers to continue with his
prepared material rather than risk forgetting to give it later ; or
it may be that his memory has different associations with the subject
and he replies in words which at first seem inaccurate, but are later
discovered to be a true reply, although not the one expected by the
questioner.
On the general subject of replies to questions there is a further
possibility too important to be overlooked. It is that the com-
municator may have forgotten the incident and may even deny
that it ever happened. Such blanks in memory certainly occur in
our present life. I recollect visiting Bideford and being taken by
my friend Dr A. T. Shearman to see what was locally termed a
" paint mine ". This remained a vivid memory owing to my interest
in geology. Thirty years later I incidentally asked Dr Shearman
(whose interests were classical studies and psychology) if he had
visited this paint mine since those days. To my astonishment he
disclaimed any knowledge of it and I failed to evoke in him any
recollection of the occasion. Again, I listened to two ladies who
had both known Sandown, I.O.W., in their youth. In comparing
their recollections of the place one recalled a military incident, the
other a tragedy which had occurred there ; but neither remembered
the outstanding event which the other so strongly associated with
the place.
In my opinion no strong argument can be based on the failure to
answer this question about the two colleagues.
The Communicator had knowledge of three facts which were
unknown to Mrs Lewis.
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Siiccess 283
I. GIBBIE
Sitting 2, paragraph 29. July 24, 1936.
Feda : I get a feeling of another lady, not his daughter, closely
related to him, I feel it is rather like a sister, and she is
on the earth. He is helping—not her exactly—but he
is helping about her, something he wants to do in con-
nection with her, influence her and help her, and he will
do it. He would like you to tell his daughter ; he seems
to thinlv she will know what he means.
(Mrs Lewis wrote to Professor Dodds, "This strongly
suggests reference to a particular situation that is causing
me great anxiety at the moment.")
Sitting 3, paragraph 45. August 21, 1936.
I have the following message as suggested by Professor
Dodds :
C. D. T. : Your daughter thinks that the lady of whom you spoke
is Gibbie. She is very much worried about the Gibbie
situation and can you advise her about this ?
Feda : Yes, yes, it is Gibbie. Gibbie is not making it very easy
for anyone to help. It is not just the situation around
Gibbie that is difficult, but Gibbie is not making it easy,
is not helping others to help. He doesn't want his
- daughter to try and do an3rthing just at the moment.
He has a very strong impression—and here he would like
to be careful and say he has the impression that in about
a fortnight from now there will be an easing of the situa-
tion, an opportunity for his daughter to see if something
can be done, but not to move till then. There are some
difficult conditions round Gibbie, not her own entirely,
but somebody's difficult condition, something that has to
be fought down.
(Since the sitting was held I have heard news which
makes it seem that the difficult situation, which has
existed unchanged for nearly two years, may be eased
within the next week or two. The phrase " something
that has to be fought down " is most appropriate.)
(In a later letter of October 6, 1936, ]\Irs Lewis added
—
" You may remember that I asked whether I could do
anything about the Gibbie situation and was told to
leave things alone as there were signs that it was going
.
J to improve by itself 'wathin the next few weeks. Frankly
284 C. Drayton Thomas [part
I did not think this possible, but actually the miracle has
come to pass.)
FixU details were given in substantiation. Having read them I
can vouch for the relevancy of the allusions and the inside knowledge
of family matters they imply. The name Gibbie was purposely
given by Mrs Lewis in order that I might introduce it at the sitting ;
there remains therefore no uncertainty as to the person referred to
in the subsequent messages.
We thus have the significant fact that, at the third sitting, the
communicator expressed the opinion that a certain situation would
shortly change for the better. This was regarded as impossible by
Mrs Lewis, but seven weeks after the forecast was made she wrote
of it that " the miracle has come to pass ". We may therefore
conclude that the communicator knew something which his daughter
did not know ; his forecast being based on information to which
Mrs Lewis had no access at the time it was given. It neatly evades
the telepathic hypothesis ; for to suggest that Mrs Lewis subcon-
sciously knew the facts and drew the inference would be to credit
her with imaginary powers for which there is no warrant in anything
known about telepathy, whether spontaneous or experimental.
n. Disappointment and Uncektainty which will end
Satisfactorily
Sitting 2, paragraph 43. J^dy 24, 1936.
Feda : Her father says that his daughter has been rather dis-
appointed about something not coming to a head for her
husband. There is something being kept back or delayed
for him and about him, as if they are being kept in the
dark a little, so that she wonders what is going to happen.
It is rather an important thing for them and he thinks it
will be all right. It is only a delay and it will work itself
out.
(Mrs Lewis wrote on November 3, 1937—This is so per-
sonal that I really cannot expand it, except to say that it
exactly described my feelings at the time of the sitting.
Now the situation has, within the last six weeks, abso-
lutely " worked itself out ".)
The communicator's statement indicates that he had knowledge
of contemporary events or mental processes of which his daughter
knew nothing.
Disappointment and uncertainty are so frequent in the life of most
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 285
people that such references are worthless as evidence unless accom-
panied by definite statements. In the above instance these were
included, viz. (1) For her husband, (2) something kept back or
delayed, (3) about which they are kept in the dark, (4) and wonder-
ing, (5) it will be all right, it is only a delay.
The matter being private we cannot judge for ourselves exactly
how pertinent to the facts this forecast may have been. But Mrs
Lewis has recorded her opinion quite clearly.
III. Glad Tidings
Sitting 5, paragraph 92. January 22, 1937.
Feda : I don't know what " glad tidings " means, but he is
bringing in these words. Something for you to say to
his daughter, " glad tidings ". He wants it put that way
and it seems to lift me up a little. It is pleasant and
happy and will affect the conditions that ]\Ir Macaulay is
helping to bring about from the other side. He wants
her to know that he is trying to help.
C. D. T. : Your daughter wished to know if you would lilfe to say
anything about her recent visit to Ireland.
Feda : Yes, yes, isn't it funny? He is a bit linking that up with
what he has just been saying.
C. D. T. : I don't know anything about it.
Feda : He is glad that you don't know. But now that you have
brought up the subject he says, " That has some con-
nection with what I have been telhng you and which
I entitled '
glad tidings '."
Mrs Lewis wrote
—" shortly after the date of this sitting I received
news which was real "glad tidings "
;
namely that my favourite
brother, who has been in Canada for ten years, was at last in a
position to return. He actually took the decision on Christmas Day
1936 and came back in March 1937. I heard of it in February
1937.
" One reason why my father so wanted my brother home was that
he had a son. My father used to say, '
I don't want the Macaulays
to become a Canadian family. If Hugh (the brother) were here,
young Dick (the son) might one day retrieve the family fortune and
buy back Ben Neagh '
(the Irish house)."
Here we see a further instance in which the commimicator had
obtained information which was unknown to his daughter. There
was, as he distinctly stated, a connection between " glad tidings
"
286 C. Drayton Thomas 'J -.
" [part
and Ireland. Tidings shortly arrived which held possibility of the
fulfilment of his remembered hope that the grandson might some
day buy back their ancestral home in Ireland.
Thus the message was presently understood and, as I think,
correctly, notwithstanding that certain phrases, such as " some
connection with ", "a bit of Unking up with ", " will affect the
conditions " were vague. In general the use of terms like these is
exasperating, because they merely hint at a possible meaning
undefined. In such cases the communicator's thought may have
been clear, but the Control's transmission of it infelicitous. If a
sitter finds it exasperatingly vague, how much more must the com-
municator, that is if he realises the form in which his thoughts are
being translated. He may well feel as one who, wishing to express
himself in a foreign tongue, is compelled by limited vocabulary to
circumlocutions which but partially and imperfectly represent what
he desires to say.
In the above three instances we find that the communicator was
aware of matters which were quite unknown to his daughter. Thi^
tells against the hypothesis that these communications are attri-
butable to telepathic activity on the part of Mrs Lewis. Her own
opinion is seen in the following letter :
" I do not think that I am mentally specially accessible. I have
sat with two mediums, both supposed to be excellent, who gave me
nothing. I was alone with them on every occasion. When I have
had good results my husband has been present ; so the inference
would be that the telepathy, if any, was with him. As an argument
against the telepathic theory I may remark that, in those good
sittings, most of the material given was quite outside my husband's
knowledge."
These three forecasts are proved, by their fulfilment, to have been
based on information about thoughts or purposes, which were at
the time in some mind or minds of people other than Mrs Lewis.
This ability to notice active thought in the mind of some person or
persons which will ultimately affect the sitter, although entirely
outside his present awareness, has been shown from time to time
by my chief communicators. The results warranted the forecasts
based on that asserted knowledge. Are we to reject this claim of
the communicators? If so, what is the alternative explanation?
It would be that the medium possessed the abihty which, in the
sittings, is attributed to the communicators. On considering the
implications of this hypothesis we find that it assumes the possession
by the medium of a faculty which lies beyond anything attributable
to brain and mind. Such transcended faculty suggests the operation
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 287
of something which loss of the physical body would leave unim-
paired, an activity of the soul acting independently of the body. If
that can be achieved during earth life it is little surprising to find
it being done posthumously.
I have deemed it necessary to deal at some length with this ques-
tion of telepathy because of the tendency in some minds to suppose
that, even in successful proxy sittings, it is preferable to refer the
given information to some distant mind on earth rather than to
the ostensible discarnate speaker.
Third Pakt of the Experiment
The First Mrs Lewis
In the letter from Professor Dodds, dated December 2, 1936,
which suggested inquiry about an Irish visit, it was also asked if
I would try to obtain messages from the first wife of Professor
Lewis. The letter ran thus :
" Professor Lewis would like to try, if there is ever an opportunity,
whether a communication can be obtained through Mrs Leonard
from his first wife. This might prove, I think, of some evidential
value, as the present Mrs Lewis knows (I am told) exceedingly little
about her predecessor, and telepathy between Mrs Lewis (herself
psychic) and Mrs Leonard would thus virtually be ruled out, in a
way in which it is not ruled out in the Lewis-Leonard experiments
up to date."
On seeing a copy of the above, Professor Lewis wrote me that his
present wife knew " practically nothing of her predecessor and had
never consciously seen her ".
In the course of the fifth sitting on January 22, 1937, Feda had
said, " He is very anxious for me to describe someone he has with
him." She then gave ten details of face, form and dress. Com-
menting on this Professor Lewis later wrote, " This is a very fair
description of my first wife as regards stature, shape of face, colour-
ing and style of hairdressing." Having at that time no suspicion
that this referred to the first Mrs Lewis, and with the above request
in mind, I presently took opportunity to ask if Mr Macaulay would
bring the first Mrs Lewis. He agreed to do so.
Other interests occupied me during the next four sittings and it
was not until just before my sitting of March 5, 1937, that I mentally
asked the first Mrs Lewis to be present and give messages for her
husband. Three months had elapsed since she had been mentioned
in Mrs Leonard's presence, yet she was now introduced as follows :
Q
288 C. Drayton Thomas [part
Feda : Oh, what does she want? - '
•
C. D. T. : Have they brought a lady? '
FedA : Yes, I think this is a case.
C. D. T. : I have asked for the first wife of Professor Lewis. Does
this lady know him?
Feda : I think this is the one.
From the items given by this communicator the following were
the best. (The annotations are given by Professor Lewis.)
Date of sitting : March 5, 1937.
Feda : Something important happened about twenty years ago,
6/111 a link with them both, it caused them to be together.
(We were married in 1918.)
I ascertained later that the marriage was in June 1918 ; a date
only fifteen months short of twenty years before this sitting.—
C. D. T.
Feda : The name Piatt is a link with the old days, not important
6/13G but connected with a time when she was on earth.
(A Mr Piatt, known to her, was in College with me in
1910-13.)
Feda : She mentions this because her husband has quite recently
6/137 been reading something in which the name Piatt figures
very prominently, but no connection with the Piatt of
long ago.
(Another Piatt, not known to her, but known to me and a
later student at the same college, which she knew well, has
written a book on geological maps. I have been recently
preparing lectures involving reference to that book.)
Date of sitting : April 2, 1937.
Feda : She has very happy memories in connection with him
(i.e. Professor Lewis) and a place " S ", quite away from
7/141 his present locality. A place sounding like Soam . . .
Sum ... I get an " M " sound in it. I had better not
try to get more than the " S ".
(We became engaged at a small village called Swindon
outside Cheltenham.)
Date of sitting : June 18. 1937.
Feda : I am going back to a bridge, a good many years ago, in
8/147 the evening, in April, the name WiUiam comes much in
memory, a special time and circumstances that were
important.
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 2S9
(I proposed to my first wife on a l^ridge, on an April
evening, twenty-five years ago. There were certain
difficulties connected with her father which delayed her
acceptance, and the father's name was William.)
It wiU be noted that the above refers to fi.ve facts all of which
were closely connected with a single occasion, and all are recognised
as correct.
Notwithstanding the successes quoted above, the whole result
was poor.
Ajs'alysis of Results
by Mrs Lewis in three sittings :
14 Poor - - 0 Number of Items 47
4 Doubtful - 19
6 Wrong - 4 Successes, 51 per cent.
24 23
It is evident at a glance that this communicator was much less
successful than the former. The impression conveyed by the full
records is even more unfavourable to the second communicator than
these figures show. Comparing them for quality of successes, and
making deductions for each failure, the superiority of Macaulay
over Lewis is in the proportion of 6 to 1.
In order to make this comparison I take the same number of
items, viz., the first 47 of each, and calculate the percentage.
Macaulay's first 47 obtained 74-4 per cent, successes.
Mrs Lewis's first 47 obtained 51 per cent, successes.
But this does not reveal the wide difl^erence in quality of the two
results. To obtain this I devised the following method :
For each "'
Right " add 2 ; for each Good " add one.
For each Wrong " subtract 2 : for each " Doubtful " subtract
one.
Thus—Macaulay—Right - 18
Good - 5
Fair - 12
Poor - 1
Doubtful 9
Wrong - 2
Items given
Right
Good
Fair
18 and 36 are 54
5 and 5 are 10 -Total - 76
12]
9 and 9 are 18 j
Total - 25
2 and 4 are %j —
51
290 C. Drayton Thomas [part
Lewis— Right - 14 14 and 28 are 42 ~j
Good - 4 4 and 4 are 8 ITotal - 56
Treating tlie records by this method the 47 items yield figures
which seem to express more accurately the difference in quaUty of
the two sets. Mrs Lewis with 6 is seen to be not quite one-ninth so
successful as Mr Macaulay.
How are we to account for this disparity? Conditions should
have favoured the second communicator ; for by the time her three
sittings commenced a considerable correspondence had passed
iDetween me and the applicants.
I think we may assume that the evidence points to two distinct
•communicators. Had these purported communicators been fictions
of the medium's subconscious, and had the information been ob-
tained by her own excursive or telepathic faculties, there should
have been no falhng off in the result. But the fall was sudden and
decisive.
In comparing my numerous records of what different communi-
cators have given through Feda it is seen that some are more concise
than others. The record of Mr Macaulay's first 47 evidential items
occupies 207 lines, while that of Mrs Lewis's 47 occupies 278 lines ;
the average for each item being 4-4 and 5-9 lines respectively.
This again favours the assumption that different minds originated
the two sets of messages, the same stenographer having made and
typed these verbatim records.
Final Remarks on the Whole Series op Sittings
It may be objected that the facts given by the Macaulay com-
municator as evidence of his identity were known to his daughter
and therefore open to the suspicion that they were obtained by the
medium from her memory. To this there are three answers :
1. The communicator would naturally wish to select from his
memories such facts as his daughter could verify ; for the giving of
unverifiable evidence would be pointless.
2. The Gibbie forecast revealed knowledge of fact which was
unknown to his daughter. Two other forecasts did likewise, al-
though these are perhaps less convincing than the former.
3. No fewer than 22 statements are marked doubtful because
Fair - 6
Poor - 0
Doubtful 19 19 and 19 are 38 ITotal - 50
4 and 8 are Vl] —
Wrong - 4
6
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 291
Mrs Lewis had no means of ascertaining whether or not they were
true. Some of these may have represented information not shared
hj her.
The final refuge of the sceptic is the hypothesis that no statement
need be attributed to discarnate intelligence if it refers to anything
known at the time by anyone anywhere on earth.
As to this, let those believe it who can!
The first four Macaulay communications were on a high grade of
evidential value. No relative of the deceased approached me ; the
experiment was arranged by an intermediary who was careful to
give only the necessary clues.
The proportion of accurate statements puts the result outside the
scope of chance coincidence. The nature of the statements is also
significant ; for they chiefly related to memories held in common
by the deceased and the applicants. Not only were these suitably
selected, but three of them indicated an awareness of facts which
the daughter did not know till later. Telepathy from her is thereby
discredited. Is there any logical alternative to acknowledging that
her father was the communicator ?
Previous proxy cases have shown similar instances where a com-
municator revealed knowledge vrhich was unknown to the applicant.
One such was " the pipes " incident recorded in the Bobbv Newlove
case. (Proc. SP.R., Vol. XLIII, 1935, pp. 481-483.)
As is well known sitters often receive information unknown to
them at the time : proxy sittings prove that the same happens when
a person taking the sitting is unacquainted with either the com-
municator or his relatives. We may therefore conclude that, should
a communicator know something which his relatives do not know,
the absence of the latter does not aftord his ability to transmit that
information through a medium.
The hypothesis that in these cases the information is derived
telepathically from some distant person should not be easily assumed
;
especially when, as is usually the case, the distant person who knew
the fact in question has never heard of either sitter or medium.
What, one may ask, is the supposed prompting which could start
this telepathic action? W^hose mind is it which makes so judicious
a selection of the appropriate time and message contents?
If the knowledge emerging in these proxy sittings is attributable
to a purely human faculty, then that faculty differs from the tele-
pathy which manifests in spontaneous and experimental cases. If
human, it is sui generis ; but I know of no adequate reason for
supposing it to be a human faculty. The evidence points in another
direction.
292 C. Drayton Thomas [part
In the third experiment messages from the first Mrs Lewis were
less successful, despite the fact that she had given good evidence to
her husband at earlier sittings with other mediums.
Before the date of this third experiment I had learnt a little about
the present Mrs Lewis and her father ; for I had seen her annotations
to the Macaulay communications. Lnaginative critics have sug-
gested that if I see an applicant's handwriting I have thereby estab-
lished a link which facilitates the transmission of ideas from him
to me or to the medium. The result of the third experiment
does not bear out this suggestion ; for the success was strikingly
less.
It seems significant that Mr Macaulay should have produced a
much higher proportion of success than did the first Mrs Lewis.
Why should this have been? The conditions were the same, except-
ing that a different communicator had been asked for and the
material given had to be annotated by Professor Lewis and not by
his wife. It may be granted that amiotators differ in their estimate
of what constitutes evidence. Let us assume that Professor Lewis
was more exacting than Mrs Lewis ; would this account for the
striking difference in our numerical findings for the two communi-
cators? I greatly doubt it.
That communicators in proxy sittings reveal a wide difference in
ability to select and transmit appropriate evidence I had previously
noticed while examining some fifty proxy cases. The same wide
difference was a conspicuous feature in Book Tests.
Granted a good medium and a sympathetically understanding
sitter the result would seem to depend entirely upon the ability and
perseverance of the communicator.
From Mrs Lewis I learn that her father had proved himself an
excellent communicator in sittings which she took shortly after his
death. He then gave accurate and detailed evidence of identity
with but a small percentage of error. This is confirmed by Professor
Dodds who has examined those records. Moreover, Mr. Macaulay
was " endlessly patient with children and immature minds ", and
this is an important point ; for, if the process of communication be
as difficult as Controls and communicators assert, much patience
and persistent effort are essential for the best results.
Professor Lewis tells me that his first wife was " most painstaking
and precise ", also " able to combine precis and clarity ". He thinks,
however, that she might be disinclined to help a control who did
not easily grasp her meaning, since it was not her habit to " suffer
fools gladly ". Now it is often noticed that communicators reveal
traits of their earth-life character : hence it may be that Mrs Lewis,
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 293
even if noticing that much of her material was being distorted, would
not trouble to elaborate messages incorrectly transmitted, but hoped
that some at least might get through. So does an inexpert golfer
continue driving his balls into the water-hazard trusting that pre-
sently one win reach the other side.
Here is an instance of such refusal "to be bothered explaining
It relates to a regular communicator who gave first class evidence
of identity at many sittings. I rarely failed to recognise her state-
ments, although a few of them were obscured in transmission and
only explained at later dates. On this occasion she gave through
Feda thus
:
FedA : Ash—Ash, a name.
C. D. T. : Was it one of the maids?
Feda : No, not in the house or the family, but one very much
connected with the house.
C. D. T. : Sorry, but I do not trace that.
Feda : Leave it. She is not one who would care to be bothered
explaining.
Months later it occurred to me that the name, given by Feda as
Ash, was intended for Nash. This explanation was accepted at a
subsequent sitting and followed by considerable information about
this Mrs Nash, some of which I knew to be correct, and some of
which I was able to verify afterwards.
Here then was an instance of a name being wrongly given and
the communicator either unable, or not troubling, to correct the
mistake.
j\Irs Lewis. lHvC the above, mav have been unwilling " to be
bothered explaining " these messages which failed to get through
correctly at a first attempt.
A further point of interest is that Professor Lewis, for some time
after his wife's death, had excellent sittings, but as time passed the
quaUty of her communications diminished. Li my twenty-two years
of investigation I have noticed with some communicators a similar
decline ;
they did best in the first year or so, then their interest in
providing evidence seemed to slacken. It may be that they became
engrossed in activities of the new life and no longer felt strong
interest in earthly contacts. This diminution of interest is by no
means universal ; some of my very best communicators left earth
more than twenty years ago. Much would seem to depend on
strength of aifection or the conviction that mediumistic intercourse
with us can be of benefit.
I was happy to accede to the suggestion by Professor Dodds that
294 C. Drayton Thomas [part
this experiment should be undertaken : for he and I represent two
divergent opinions held by members of the S.P.R. These are (1) the
ultra cautious, which relies on the hypothetically unlimited scope
of telepathy between persons widely separated and even unknown
to each other. And (2) the whole-hearted conviction of the actuality
of intercourse with those departed this life.
We agree on the possibility of telepathy between minds on earth.
Our differences would seem to hinge on the dubious extension of
such telepathy ; is it practically unlimited, so that it can be assumed
as a vera causa for everything met with in mediumistic communi-
cations ? Or do the latter sometimes go beyond anything explicable
by telepathy?
I am confident that they do. This conviction is based on oft
repeated and varied observations. Of these the proxy sittings form
a part. One such case was reported in the S.P.R. Proceedings,
Vol. XLIII, 1935, entitled " A Proxy Case extending over eleven
sittings ". The present case is a degree further removed from
explanation by telepathy because of results obtained under condi-
tions entirely excluding contact between sitter and applicants.
Note by Professor E. R. Dodds
Mr Drayton Thomas has asked me to state my personal view
of the Macaulay-Lewis experiment, as I was instrumental in
arranging it and have examined the whole of the material fairly
closely.
It appears to me that the hypotheses of fraud, rational inference
from disclosed facts, telepathy from the actual sitter, and coincidence
cannot either singly or in combination account for the results
obtained. Only the barest information was supplied to sitter and
medium, and that through an indirect channel. Until after the
first sitting (at which a substantial amount of veridical matter
emerged) the medium had no opportunity of initiating enquiries;
and although she might then conceivably have had recourse to
o))ituary notices and to a private enquiry agency, I cannot imagine
how she could have obtained such items as " Reece-Riss "
(47),
" Puggy "
(79) or the reference to Professor Lewis's private con-
versation on a bridge 25 years earlier (147). It is equally incredible
to me that such items were all of them mere lucky shots.
If these hypotheses are ruled out, the experiment seems to present
us (and this is its importance) with a clear-cut " either-or " : Mrs
Leonard had supernormal access on this occasion either (a) to some
of the thoughts of a living person or persons who had never held any
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success . 295
communication with her or ivith the sitter : or else (b) to some of the
thoughts of a mind or minds other than that of a Uving person.^
I see at present no plausible means of escape from this staggering
dilemma. Nor do I see any vaUd ground for embracing one horn
of it and spurning the other, as Mr Thomas does. In the present
state of our knowledge—or rather ignorance—about the mechanism
of telepathy, it seems to me impossible to specify the limits of its
operation, though no doubt such limits exist and will one day be
determined. In the meantime I can only state my conclusion in
the form of a disjunctive proposition.
Three remarks, however, seem worth making, in answer to
certain arguments of Mr Thomas's :
(ff) All the veridical statements about the past or the present
attributed by Feda to " F. W. Macaulay " concerned matters
within the knowledge of the present Mrs Lewis : all those attributed
to " the first Mrs Lewis " concerned matters within the knowledge
of Professor Lewis. (Three statements about the future, attributed
to " F. W. Macaulay ", Nos. 43, 45, 92, are claimed by Mr Thomas
as veridical (see above, pp. 283 ff.) ; but they are unfortunately so
vague that with a little goodwill I could read all three of them as
referring to recent incidents in my own life. Such optimistic
bal^blings are a stand-by with all mediums : to build any argument
on them seems to me more than rash.)
(b) Between the " Macaulay " and the " Lewis " sittings there
were thus two changes : a change of " communicator ", and also a
change in the person who was able to verify the communications
and must on the telepathic hypothesis be regarded as their ultimate
source. On this hypothesis the qualitative inferiority of the " Lewis
"
commimications might simply mean that Professor Lewis proved a
less effective telepathic agent than his wife (as I should in fact
expect from my knowledge of them).
(c) I cannot agree with Mr Thomas that there is nothing in the
whole experiment to support the suggestion that the Macaulay
communications owed anything to telepathy from minds on earth
Apart from the negative fact that " F. W. Macaulay " made no
verifiable reference to matters outside his daughter's knowledge,
there is his positive awareness of his daughter's recent movements
(96-99) and even (it would seem) of her recent thoughts (43, 98).
' I put the second alternative in this negative way because I have no means
of deJimng the character or status of such minds, if they exist, or of deter-
mining how many such minds might, smgly or between them, possess the
veridical information which was given. Even the use of the word " mind "
perhaps assumes more than is strictly justified.
296 C. Drayton Thomas [part
" F. W. Macaulay " stated that lie was " with her " (whatever that
means) on the day described in items 98-9, and I am in no position
to dispute the assertion ; hut in such a case the telepathic hypo-
thesis has at least the relative merit of postulating one miracle
instead of two.
It is, I think, worth adding that I made an earlier attempt, on
behalf of a different enquirer, to obtain messages through Mrs
Leonard without any commimication either between the enquirer
and Mrs Leonard or between the enquirer and the actual sitter (in
this case Miss Nea Walker). In 1934 Miss Walker kindly consented
at my request to take a sitting on behalf of an unnamed friend of
mine who Avished to receive a message from an unnamed near
relative who had been an active member of the S.P.R. and had
believed in survival. No other information was supplied to her.
The resultant sitting (date of which was not known in advance
either to me or to the enquirer) yielded a few relevant statements,
but nothing which either in the enquirer's judgment or in mine
exceeded the normal range of coincidence. The failure may be
variously explained : without further experiment it would be rash
to conclude that it is an indispensable condition of success in proxy
sittings for the actual sitter to know the names of the enquirer and
the desired communicator. I should like to see other experiments
tried on these lines.
May I urge, in conclusion, that serious students of psychical
research should acquaint themselves with the complete annotated
record of the Macaulay and Lewis sittings, which may be seen at
the Society's Rooms?
APPENDIX I
Characteristics of the Messages Marked " Doubtful "
More than half of these were attempts at personal names ; those
accustomed to sit with Mrs Leonard will agree that Feda finds
names difficult and that they are frequently given in distorted form.
To listen while she struggles for the correct name is exactly like
hearing a rather deaf person try to repeat some difficult word which
is but lialf heard.
The following examples will suffice to indicate the character of
these " doubtful " name messages.
Feda : Foreman . . . Foreman. No, that is not right. A name
sounding For-something, like Foreman. It is awful like
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 297
4/30 Foreman. For- For, just leave it for the moment. I am
afraid to stop too long.
(Foreman not identified.)
Feda : Would there be a name Abby, Abby ? (This was not
1/14 proceeded with and is not identified.)
Feda : He is trying to get another name now beginning with a
1/17 ' G ". I feel this is a lady's name, there is a feminine
feeling. Somebody he was very interested in.
(This cannot be traced.)
Feda : Willow, Willow, Willow. It must be the name of a place.
It is something he has been thinking about lately. His
2/28 daughter ? Has he a sister do you know? I get a feeUng
of another lady, and it is not his daughter, closely related
to him. I feel it is rather like a sister and she is on the earth.
(I wish Feda could be pressed about " WiUow ". Taken
in conjunction with the next paragraph it suggests an
attempt at a place name which, if correctly given. I should
consider to be e\'idential. The place name is Ludlow.)
Feda : (After giving a description which Professor Lewis recog-
nised as a very fair description of my first wife as regards
5/90 stature, shape of face, colouring and style of hairdressing.)
A name comes to her Ellen, Nellie ; she may be speaking
of a relative.
(Professor Lewis continued : "I know of no Ellen or
Nellie likely to be closely associated with her. A grand-
mother of mine, now passed over some years, knew her
and was fond of her, but their contacts were so few and
short, a total of hours in all at long intervals, that this
seems unrehable as e\ddence, even though the grand-
mother's name was Ellen.'')
Other of these " doubtful " items were as foUows :
Feda : Batten, Button. Just put it down. Not long before he
passed over he had been wanting to loosen something,
2/40 he calls it a batten ;
something he wanted to do and he
remembers speaking about this batten, something to do
with his work. He wanted it done specially. And hooks
to put things on, hooks, hooks, hanging things on hooks.
Not ordinary clothes places, but as if he got things and
hung them up in places.
(I have heard this word in general engineering talk, but
cannot recoUect any particular occasion.)
3/47 In the midst of a reference to happy times in the past,
298 C. Drayton Thomas [part
Feda
4/62
Feda
4/80
Feda :
5/105
Eight
follows :
1/25
Feda :
Feda
which is recognised as correct, three names were mentioned
as being now with him, John, Harry and Francis.
(John, Harry and Francis could be three of these. Francis
is certainly dead, I do not know about John and Harry.
In view of this uncertainty both John and Harry are
counted among the " doubtful " references.)
Oh, does he hold something to his eye? Not an ordinary
glass, but something he holds up right close to his eye
like looking down a peep-hole. This is like a sort of little
tunnel that he puts to his eye.
(He frequently used a magnifying glass, but I do not
recollect any " sort of little tunnel ". It may be a con-
fusion with his telescope. This he used a great deal on
the rifle range. In a sitting with another medium I was
told that a telescope was very significant in comiection
with him.)
He went up a hill somewhere, a place he was interested
in. He just showed me a little quick picture and said it
was a place he was very interested in.
(Too vague, though I can add that all my father's reser-
voirs, excepting one covered storage tank, were made by
damming valleys in hilly country.)
I get shipping too. I don't feel he had much to do with
that, but he is giving me the place.
(He was always interested in shipping, as his father was
a naval man.)
items only seem to be definitely inaccurate. They are as
A Description of the office in which he worked contained
nine points ; of these all were correct save the two here
given.
He gives me the idea of a smell that I should not like,
that would make me cough, dangerous to stay in it too
long, as if it would make one unconscious. It is in this
room near the wall, about 3 feet up. Both the men he
worked with seem to be on earth still.
(The " smell " is completely wrong. The two men I had
in mind when asking the question are both dead. Of his
many other colleagues I cannot speak.)
Date of sitting, July 24, 1936.
She was thinking very much of him last week, something
had been happening last week that reminded her of him
159] A Proxy Experiment of Signifimnt Success 299
3/34 in his early life. Some kind of anniversary in last week,
some date that had come round again that she was think-
ing of and that was connected with him in his early life.
August is rather important for him. There seems to be
another kind of anniversary, a rather important kind, in
August.
(I cannot recall any particular anniversaries in July or
August, excepting that I always thinlv of him during the
Bisley Meetings, because he so enjoyed them ; and again
think of watching cricket matches with him when I was-
on holiday during those two months. But then most
things remind me of him.)
Feda : An elderly woman with him who belongs to his daughter's
husband. Did you say her name was Emma? There is
2/44 an Emma with him. I get Mary again now quickly, as
if there must have been a link between them.
(If Emma is the woman connected with my husband we
don't know her. But my aunt of that name, who was a
Spiritualist, died recently. I don't know a Mary in con-
nection with her.)
4/61 An instrument is described as one used by Mr Macaulay
in his work. This is recognised by his daughter, except
for the following point
:
Feda : He seems to put on it glasses and bits of metal. Some-
thing with glasses he used.
(Glass played no part in the process. He frequently used
a magnifying glass.)
Feda : It was rather an interesting time when she was in Ireland,
5/94 not that she was thinking of him while there.
(I was thinking constantly of him as we were visiting a
village where the Macaulays had lived for three hundred
years.)
It is obvious that the remark " not that she was thinking of him
while there " was an error, either in transmission or by the steno-
grapher ; for in 5/98 Feda said, " He felt she was in the midst of
trams and doing something that made her think of him."
Feda : Half-past eleven in the morning I was with her, a special
time ; she will know why. Interview—gathering—seeing
5/100 people later in the day and again next morning by ar-
rangement. Talking about a man passed over as well as
of himself.
(This is not recognised.)
300 . Drayton Thomas [PABT
APPENDIX II
Coincidence of Allusion between Leonard Proxy Sittings
OF C. D. Thomas in 1936-37 and Sittings taken by
Mrs Lewis in 1933 with a different Medium
Number of Paeageaph
IN Leonard Records
Water and Keservoirs - - Abbott and Leonard 5, 6, 7, 54-5
Sister Anna - - - - Brittain and Leonard 75-7
Margaret and Sarah - -
„ 18, 77
Very Tired before Passing - 116
Reference TO Son-in-law -
, 85
Telescope ,, 62
Has MET THE first Mrs Lewis
there . - - -
^. ,^ 89 100
Warnings about Health Con-
dition - . - -
^, 1], 12
Active to the Last - - - ,, ., 3, 65
Attitude to Post Mortem Com-
munication - - - „ .. 38
Macaulay
Abbott. December 15, 1933. Professor and Mrs Lewis Sitters,
Water and Reservoirs
" Tlie old gentleman says that the bee in his bonnet is all
about water. Water, water, so that there shall be no
shortage."
" Birmingham, big things are going to l)e done for the
place that he loves. They are going to store up the waters,
and malce it practical. Tliey went nearly tliirsty with
you a few months ago. Why can't they push forward
with his pet theory?
"
(True of all England. " Pet theory " must be his idea of
a National Vv^ater Board, and a division of England into
" Water regions ".)
Leonard. 1 /5, 6, 7.
" Big stones built—the work he was doing. Shows " M "
over the stones, a link with his work, also " H " con-
nected with it too."
•I
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 301
(Suggests his reservoir in Monmoiitlishire and Hydraulic
Engineering.)
4/54-5 Interested in some work '
R ', almost up to tlie time he
passed over. Left mass of handwritten notes about this
name K .
(Yes, notes about Reservoir work.)
Sister Ajwa
Brittain. June 22, 1933.
J\'lr Macaulav had died four weeks previously, May 20,.
1933.
Mrs Lewis writes : "I went in a distinctly antagonistic mood, as
my father had always been very critical of all spiritualistic
matters."
Brittain : "A little sister who died very young, the Daddy's. She
is grown up, now with Daddy : It is Anne."
(My father had one sister who died at the age of three.
The child's name was Anna.)
Leonard : "I am getting the name Anne too, Anne or Annie, is
4/75-7 passed over."
Feda then described with much detail an old lady " who
passed years ago ", and " very near her " a Sarah, also
described.
•
.
(This might be his sister Anna, especially as he goes on
to describe (76) someone who might be his grandmother,
for whom this child is named. The suppositions made
above are strengthened by the immediate mention of
Sarah—his mother's name and the description applies
well to Sarah.)
Leonard : '"I see standing with him there a rather young lady, I
3/48 think she passed over quite young some time ago. Will
you ask if he had a sister a great many years younger
than he was ?
"
(Anna, his only sister, died as a child.)
Margaret and Sarah
Brittain. June 23. 1933.
" Margaret and John are with him, so is his mother. Her
name is Sarah."
(This is correct. In regard to Margaret and John these
names conveyed nothing to m.e ; but some weeks later.
302 C. Drayton Thomas [part
my sister, to whom I sent the notes of the sitting, wrote
to say that she had been reading up an old family book
and found that these were the names of Sarah's brother
and sister. All three had died before my father was
sixteen and he rarely mentioned his uncle and aunt.
When he spoke of the latter he always called her Aunt
Mary.)
Leonaed. 1/18, " Margaret " ; and 4/77 " Sarah ".
Leonard :
" Among names of those now with him given for identi-
1/18 fication " is Margaret.
4/77 Sarah named and described, together with old lady whose
description fits her mother ; thus mother (Sarah) and
grandmother spoken of as with him now.
Very Tired
Brittain {continued).
Belle :
" Very happy, happier than he has ever been. He was so
tired, so very tired. It was rather a sad end to his over-
coat—he means his body, but now he doesn't want to
see it any more."
Leonard :
" My heart seemed very tired, something affected it."
1/116
Son-in-law
Brittain.
Belle :
" He is asking about Stanley now. He means the gentle-
man, but he doesn't say Wilfred like the lady does. He
says Stanley—Stanley."
(I called my husband Stanley when we were first engaged
and my father had hardly got used to calling him Wilfred
when he died.)
Leonard, 5/85. Following indirect allusion to his son-in-law. Pro-
fessor Lewis :
" He gives the letter '
S '
to do with that person : it may
not be the proper name but yet quite fitting, etc."
Telescope
Brittain [continued).
Belle :
" Now he will show something very important so that
you will know it is really him. It is a black thing—
a
telescope."
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 303
Mrs Lewis : I don"t recognise that.
Belle : "He says "
doesn't it remind you? '
Is it a flute? He i«
shaking his head. In a green baize bag. He says Marian."
(This is a very curious episode. The control kept insisting
that the telescope was very important and I could not
place it at all. After about five minutes the matter was
given up. the control saying that Daddy was very sur-
prised. When I read over the notes afterwards the name
Marian recalled my father's stepmother and led me to
wonder whether he had a telescope that had belonged to
his father, who was a naval man. Three months later
I asked my mother if this was so. She said she believed
there was one somewhere but it was not with Daddy's
telescope. I said, " Had he one then? " She looked at
me as if I were mad, and then, for the first time, I remem-
bered that my father was, until about five years before
his death, a most enthusiastic rifle shot. He went to
Bisley every year and on two occasions got into the
King's Hundred. We have at least twelve cups that were
won at Bisley and elsewhere. I can't understand this
complete lapse of memory on my part. He used the
telescope on the range.)
Leonard :
" Does he hold something to his eye? Not an ordinary
4/62 glass, but something he held up right close to his eye, like
looking down a peep hole—sort of little tunnel."
Mr Macaulay has met the First Mrs Lewis there
Brittain {continued).
Prof. Lewis :
" Is Connie stiU there? " (The name of his first
wife.)
Belle : "'Oh yes, rather, but she doesn't want to barge in and be a
nuisance." (A very characteristic expression of Connie's.)
Mrs Lewis : Has she met Daddy?
Belle : Oh yes, rather. She's been with him quite a lot, etc.,
etc.
Leonard : Description of a lady recognised by Professor Lewis as
6/89 d very fair for his " first wife as regards stature, shape of
& 100 face, colouring and hair-dressing ". This was prefaced
by :
" He is very anxious for me to describe someone he
has with him," and concludes ''
She is with him ".
100 Unaware of the identity of the described lady, I later
i
304 C. Drayton Thomas [PAKT
asked if lie would bring the first Mrs Lewis to a sitting.
Eeply was, " He would like to do that and I think there
is a reason why he can."
Brittain {continued).
Belle : Do you know he had little warnings before he went? He
had a little fall, sometimes he felt faint j ust for a moment.
When he had his bath he didn't have much water. It was
his heart or perhaps blood pressure. But perhaps you
didn't know that.
Mrs Lewis : He never told me anything.
Belle : No, he pretended he was all right. He never opened his
silly mouth. (A very common expression with my father.)
Active to the Last
But it would not have made any difference and he went
to the eve of his passing without giving any trouble, and
he was able to do all his work.
(Correct, he worked until the evening of June 17, 1933.
and had his operation on June 18. My father used to
take his bath in the mornings.)
Leonard, 1/11 and 12, for " Warnings ", and 1/3 and 4/65 for
" Active to the last ''.
1/11 " He had not been well for two or three years but did not
regard it seriously. Two months before the end he had
disquieting symptoms that seemed serious, but it was
only a short time before his passing that he realised its
seriousness."
1/12 "I get a feeling of something happening early in the
morning, something rather like a warning kind of thing,
like—oh, now something is happening."
1/3 " I don't think he thought he was going. It is a feeling
'
I have things to do and I hope I shall be allowed to live
on and do them '."
4/65 " Busy up to a short time before he passed."
Re Communication after Death
Brittaix, 1933.
Mrs Lewis : Has Daddy anything to say 1
159] A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success 305
Belle : We are waiting for liim. You see he didn't pass over very
long ago and he isn't quite sure. He didn't believe in
, this sort of thing when he was on earth. He is laughing ;
there is such a twinkle in his eye.
'
And he has such funny hair ; it is two colours—white in
front and on top and very much darker at the back. And
he has a very funny mouth (giggling a good deal).
Prof. Lewis : What is funny about his mouth ?
Belle : It is all crooked, one corner goes up. (Twisting her mouth
up at the right corner.)
(This description of my father's hair and mouth are quite
correct. It would also be true to say that he usually had
a twinkle in his eye.)
Belle : He is very reserved.
Mrs Lewis : True.
Belle : He says he was not quite sure about the after life, he
didn't think much about it on the earth. He didn't
really think there was anything.
Mrs Lewis : True.
Belle : Mostly he thought about people. He had a lot to do
for them.
Leonard :
" He had heard something about this subject before he
1/38 passed over. I don't think he knew very much but I feel
he had talked about it. He knew somebody—not his
daughter—with whom he had talked about it, and had
learned just a little that way."
\ (He used to fight with Sir Oliver Lodge about Spiritual-
ism.)
Having seen these striking coincidences let us ask what they tell
us. There are two possible explanations, although one of them fails
to explain the whole and is, in my opinion, wholly imaginary. It
assumes that the above coincidences were due to the memory of
Mrs Lewis from which, three years after the Brittain sittings, some
of the recollections given there were now " read " by Mrs Leonard.
That hypothesis is weakened by the fact that special precautions
were taken to ensure that neither sitter nor medium should have
any mental link with Mrs Lewis. We had nothing beyond the clue
necessary for indicating the person from whom communication was
sought ; that clue being in the handwriting of Professor Dodds and
not in that of Mrs Lewis. The above hypothesis is further dis-
credited by its failure to explain the inclusion of messages which
revealed awareness of facts which were unknown to Mrs Lewis.
306 C. Drayton Thomas [part 159]
To me the coincidences between Brittain and Leonard sittings
indicate that the Macaulay communicator from whom I received
so much accurate information was not a fiction created by Mrs
Leonard's mind, but an independent person who, after the lapse of
three years, offered as proof of identity some of the same material
which he had previously selected for the same purpose and given
through other sensitives and to a different sitter.
While going to Press the suggestion was brought to my notice that
information about Mr F. W. Macaulay could presumably have been
found in published notices. I accordingly inspected Who's Who^
for a year previous to Mr Macaulay's decease but found no mention
of his name. I next wrote to the Editors of all the Birmingham
daily and weekly papers inquiring about obituary notices, and on
learning that two had appeared I procured copies.
The Birmingham Mail for May 22, 1933, gives the following
particulars among much else which has no bearing on Leonard
sittings : Mr F. W. Macaulay died on May 20, 1933, after an opera-
tion. He was in his 69th year and had been Chief Engineer to the
city Water Department and a recognised authority on water
engineering. A member of the Institute of Civil Engineers he entered
the city's employment on the recommendation of the late James
Mansergh. The date of his retirement was 1929.
This notice includes a photograph which shows that he wore
glasses.
The Birmingham Post repeats much of the above and states,
further than Mr Macaulay was born at Southampton, and had been
associated with James Mansergh in big engineering schemes in the
North of England.
While some of these facts appeared in the Leonard sittings it is
obvious that they form but a minute portion of the information
there given.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 160
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
HAUNTING AND THE " PSYCHIC ETHER " HYPOTHESIS ;
WITH SOME PRELIMINARY REFLECTIONS ON THE
PRESENT CONDITION AND POSSIBLE FUTURE OF
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
BY
H. H. Price
When you did me the very great honour of inviting me to be your
President, I am afraid I did not reflect sufficiently upon the obHga-
tions of the office. The long series of exceedingly distinguished men
who have held this position before me have set a standard to which
I cannot hope to attain. Moreover, though I have had the good
fortune to be a member of the Society for several years, I must
confess that my knowledge of Psychical Research has been derived
almost entirely from reading, and hardly at all from personal in-
vestigation. Nor has my reading been very extensive. As a pro-
fessional philosopher, I am naturally interested in a subject which
seems likely to throw entirely new light upon the nature of hmnan
personality and its position in the Universe. (Indeed I believe it
may do more : I believe that in time it may transform the whole
intellectual outlook upon which our present civilisation is based.)
But I cannot claim any wide or detailed knowledge of the results
hitherto achieved. So if I venture to make some suggestions which
have a bearing upon the future development of the subject, you
must understand that I speak as an onlooker—an outsider if you
like—and you must forgive the combination of ignorance and
temerity which I shall probably display.
R 307
308 H. H. Price [part
It seems to me that there are two main obstacles which are at
present holding up the progress of our enquiry. They are quite
different, and it may seem at first sight that there can be no con-
nection between them. But if I am right, there is after all some
connection, and the removal of the one will help to remove the other
as well.
The first obstacle is this. We do not yet know of any method
by which supernormal phenomena can be produced and repeated
at will by anyone who is prepared to take the requisite trouble.
We are still too much dependent upon the occurrence of " spon-
taneous cases ". There was of course a time when we were almost
wholly dependent on them. It was as if one could only study
electrical phenomena by waiting for an occasional thunderstorm.
Indeed it was worse. For the phenomena (for example telepathic
phantasms) were very seldom, if ever, observed directly by the
investigator himself. They were reported to him by other people,
and it was necessary to estal)lish the honesty and the accuracy of
the reports. With regard to a great many supernormal phenomena
—and those perhaps the most interesting ones—we are still pre-
cisely in that position. It is true that we have developed experi-
mental methods for investigating Telepathy and Clairvoyance, and
we know how to analyse the results by means of an elaborate
statistical technique. The devising of these methods was a most
important step forward. Nevertheless, they do not give us all we
want. Broadly speaking, they enable us to detect the presence of
" extra-sensory " powers in any given person, and to measure the
degree in which they are present. But if our study is to become an
experimental science in the full sense of that phrase, we must be
able to produce the phenomena whenever we like ; or if you prefer,
we must be able to ensure that they will happen. It is not enough
to be able to detect and measure them when they do happen. We
must be able to arrange artificially a set of conditions, given which
a specified sort of phenomenon {e.g. the clairvoyant reading of a
sealed letter) is reasonably certain to occur. We can then proceed
to vary these conditions one by one, and to introduce new ones, and
notice the results. Moreover we must be able to describe these
conditions fully and unambiguously ; so that any other investigator,
no matter who, can repeat the process whenever he likes and verify
our results.
It would be still better if the investigator could produce in himself
(not merely in the other persons whom he studies) the phenomena
which he desires to investigate. We need to know from within,
by personal and first-hand experience, what it is like to see an
160] Presidential Address 309
apparition in a haunted house, or to have a clairvoyant vision of an
event happening at a distance. If every trained psychologist—dare
I add, every trained philosopher?—could have these experiences
himself, whenever he liked, under known and repeatable conditions,
we might be able to find out what sort of " seeing " or " vision " it
is, and how much or how little analogy it has to the normal ex-
periences which go under these names. At present we have to
depend upon the testimony of persons who are no doubt honest and
intelligent, but do not know what to look for, or how to describe
it. Thus we have had to invent a number of technical terms—such
as " Telepathy " and " Clairvoyance "—without any really clear
notion of the meaning we intend to attach to them.
This ideal which I have sketched, the ideal of a genuinely experi-
mental science, based upon a direct and first-hand experience of
the phenomena, may well appear utterly unattainable. Certainly
we are a very long way from it at present. But I do not think we
should despair of achieving it, and I should like to suggest one or
two lines of thought which may help us to find the way.
In the first place, we might appeal to the Physiologists and Bio-
chemists. It is not at all inconceivable that some drug may be
discovered which will give us what we want ; it is well known that
certain drugs, for example mescal, have the power of inducing
sensory hallucinations. Indeed, the required drug may already
have been discovered or artificially produced. If it has been, the
fact might easily have escaped our notice. In the present state of
extreme scientific speciaUsation, its discoverer would probably not
even ask himself whether it might be useful to Psychical Researchers.
(We must remember too that even to-day our subject is viewed with
very considerable suspicion in scientific circles.) We have some
reason to think that supernormal powers manifest themselves more
easily when the normal functioning of the sense-organs is inhibited
in some degree ; and I should imagine—though of course I speak
in complete ignorance—that quite a number of chemical agencies
might have such an inhibiting effect.
Perhaps this suggestion has already been followed up, with no
positive result. If so, I apologise for making it, and I will now
make another which is on somewhat similar lines. Is it not possible
that prolonged /asiin^r may lead to, or at least facilitate, the mani-
festation of supernormal cognitive powers? I suppose that the
effects of fasting have been carefully studied by physiologists ; but
have they ever been studied with this question in mind ? It is surely
significant that a number of religious traditions, Christian and
non-Christian, lay great stress on the importance of fasting, and hint
310 H. H. Price [part
very strongly that there is a close connection between fasting and
" visions " of one sort or another. I need only refer you to the
biographies of the Christian hermits and ascetics who flourished in
fourth-century Egypt. Can we suppose that a practice which is
so utterly repugnant to ordinary human nature would have been
adopted so widely, and persisted in for so long, if it had not led to
some pretty striking experiences? You may say that the ex-
periences were " spiritual " rather than " psychic ". But I think
that the stories which have come down to us, for instance in the
legend of St. Antony, suggest the contrary. When all necessary
allowance has been made for hagiographical and theological en-
thusiasm, I think there is a residuum left which deserves our serious
consideration. The Reformation did many disservices to mankind.
Perhaps one of the greatest was this, that it made fasting un-
fashionable—not to say socially impossible—among the more
scientifically minded peoples of Europe. Before leaving the subject
I might mention the reports that members of the Everest expedition
and other similar expeditions experienced occasional hallucinations.
This might have been due to semi-starvation ; but of course it might
also have been due to reduced atmospheric pressure, and perhaps
that is another possibility which is worth investigating. (The
'physiological effects of reduced atmosphere pressure have of course
been pretty thoroughly studied already.)
Thirdly—though I am afraid this suggestion will shock some of
you—I do not think that we should be too proud to take any hints
we can get from the mystical and occult traditions of the Far East,
particularly of India. I am not suggesting for a moment that we
should accept their conclusions—unless and until we succeed in
verifying them for ourselves. What I have in mind is their methods,
the assemblage of physiological and j^sychological exercises which
are roughly included under the name " Yoga ", and the correspond-
ing ones which are practised in China and Tibet. ^ Though some of
these methods aim at inducing religious experiences of a mystical
kind, there are others which profess to develop the " psychic powers
"
of the subject, including the powers of Telepathy and Clairvoyance ;
for it is assumed (not altogether unreasonably, I think) that these
^ I think it is very much to be desired that a party of quaHfied Psychical
Researchers should visit Tibet ; for in that country the traditions which I have
m mind remain in full force, almost untouched by Western influences. I know
that the difficulties—financial, linguistic, and even political—^would be enor-
mous. But moimtain-climbers and naturalists can manage to overcome
them. New light on the human mind is far more worth having than a Giant
Panda.
160] Presidential Address 311
powers are present in every normal human being, though in a latent
state. These methods may appear to us peculiar, or even repellent.
Nevertheless, it is claimed that their effectiveness can be empirically
verified by anyone who is prepared to take the requisite trouble. And
I think that this is a claim which ought to be seriously investigated.
Before I leave this part of my subject, there is one other suggestion
I have to make. It may appear naive to the point of childishness.
One has the impression—I do not know how far statistics support
it—that supernormal experiences are relatively uncommon among
highly educated persons. (There are of course striking exceptions :
for instance Swedenborg and perhaps Socrates. But I think they
are not numerous.) There is some reason for supposing that these
experiences were more frequent in earlier and less civilised ages ; and
that at this day they are more common among the less advanced
peoples of the world than they are among ourselves. There is also
some evidence that experiences of this sort are more likely to occur
when intellectual processes are somewhat in abeyance : as in states
of fatigue or illness or at the point of death. The appearances, then,
do at least suggest that supernormal cognitive powers tend to be
feeble or non-existent where the power of abstract thinking is great.
Now there is a possible explanation for this, which it may be instruc-
tive to consider. The more abstract our thinking is, the more it
has to be carried on by means of words ; or by means of other
conventional symbols, for instance algebraic ones, which for our
present purposes may be taken as a sort of words. But it is also
possible to think by means of itmiges. For highly abstract topics
images are useless, but they serve well enough for relatively concrete
ones ; and it is possible, and it may be relevant, that they are more
closely connected with the emotional side of our nature.
Now almost the whole of our present higher education, in so far
as it does not consist in imparting information, is designed to increase
our capacity of verbal thinking (including under that head the
manipulation of mathematical symbols.) And this is perfectly
natural. For speaking broadly, this education has two main aims.
If it is of the scientific sort, its aim is to produce scientists and
scientific technicians. If it is of the humanistic sort, its aim is to
produce administrators in a wide sense of the word. These are the
two most important classes of persons in our present civilisation ;
the scientists and technicians on the one hand, the administrators
on the other. And it is obvious at a glance that neither of them
could carry on their work for more than a few minutes by means of
image-thinking alone. Thanks to the very advanced state of our
scientific technique, and the unparalleled complexity of our social
312 H. H. Price [part
organisation, we probably live in the most word-ridden age that the
world has ever seen. Image-thinking, on the other hand, is syste-
matically repressed in youth by our whole system of higher educa-
tion, and by the whole weight of the " educated attitude " of those
among whom the adult subsequently hves and moves. Not that it
is eradicated altogether ; it turns up again in moments of fatigue
or disease or relaxed attention, in dreams, in the hypnagogic and
hypnopompic experiences which are intermediate between sleeping
and waking. It has only been more or less completely inhibited
in the sane, waking, normal life of highly educated persons.
Now I want to suggest that this exclusive cultivation of verbal
thinking may be adverse to the development of supernormal cogni-
tive powers ; that such powers manifest themselves more readily
in persons whose thought is mainly conducted in images (persons
of the " intuitive " rather than the " abstract " type ^) ; and that
this is the reason why such powers are relatively more common
among uneducated persons, children, and primitive races ; and
moreover that it is the reason why they tend to emerge more easily
in sleep and in states of relaxed attention or mild dissociation.
If I am right in this suggestion (which I admit is something of a
shot in the dark) an important practical consequence follows.
Investigators of supernormal phenomena ought to make a deliberate
effort to cultivate their own powers of image-thinking. In this way
they should increase their chances of obtaining first-hand super-
normal experiences in their own persons. And of course they
should encourage other people to do the same. But indeed the word
" cultivate " perhaps gives a false and unduly disheartening im-
pression. I think it is not really a case of increasing a power which
one has in a feeble degree : but rather of attaining or recovering
conscious control of a power which is already functioning abundantly.
For it is plausible to suggest that image-thinking is going on in aU
of us all the time, but that in highly-educated persons it has got
dissociated from the main stream of their daylight waking con-
sciousness. (Cf. the suggestion that we are dreaming all day long
as well as at night, but only notice it when we are asleep.) In fact,
the intellectual and abstract-thinking man is something of a split
personality, a little mad if you like : a conclusion which need not
surprise us! As some philosopher has said, " nous vivons sur la
^ The word " intuitive " is one which the professional philosopher dislikes,
owing to the many different meanings which it has borne in the course of the
history of Philosophy. But I think that in ordinary life and conversation it
is sometimes ajjplied to the image-thinking as opposed to the abstract-thinking
type of person.
160] Presidential Address 313
surface de notre etre ". The thing for us to do, then, is to re-
associate our image-thinking with the main stream of our waking
consciousness : to break down a barrier which cuts off a fully active
faculty from our view, rather than to revive by toilsome exercise
one which has become atrophied through long disuse. Not that
even this removal of barriers is an easy task ; but experience shows,
I think, that it is a practicable one. And perhaps the other measures
which I suggested may assist us in it. Perhaps that is the point
of them, if they do have the efficacy which I tentatively attributed
to them. We all know that the emergence of images into conscious-
ness is facilitated by certain physiological states, such as fatigue.
Perhaps the drug we are looking for is one which wall induce the
required physiological condition artificially ;
possibly abstinence
from food may also favour the free emergence of images, and the
breathing exercises and bodily postures of the Yogis may do the
same. Perhaps this is also the point of the auto-hypnosis which
occurs in crystal-gazing and similar practices. Its immediate effect
may be to facilitate the emergence of images, and thus indirectly
set free the subject's clairvoyant powers. I have of course been
assuming throughout—and it is an old and a reasonable assumption
—that supernormal cognitive j)Owers are in fact possessed by every-
one and even that they are active in everyone to some extent. I
have been assuming, following F. W. H. Myers, that the difference
between " sensitives " and the rest of us is just a difference in the
normal position of the threshold of consciousness. If this is indeed
the difference, it should not be beyond the wit of man to remove it
by one means or another. That is the point of all the suggestions
I have been making. If I am right, the obstacles are specially great
in the case of highly-educated persons. But I see no reason why
we should despair of overcoming them even there. And if once they
were overcome, the way would be open for an enormous advance in
the investigation of supernormal phenomena.
One more remark before I leave this part of my subject. It may
well be that the supernormal powers function on some " deeper
"
level than the level of image-tliinking. But even so, images might
be their jyroximate manifestation ; whereas their manifestation at
the level of verbal thinking might be far less direct, and inhibited by
all sorts of additional counter-forces. We may compare the fact
that dreams (which are a kind of image-thinking) seem to be the
proximate manifestation of our unconscious wishes ; and that these
wishes " get through " into ordinary waking life only occasionally
and as it were furtively, in slips of the tongue, apparently accidental
actions and the like.
314 H. H. Price [part
So much then for the first main obstacle which obstructs the
progress of Psychical Kesearch at the present time : the lack of
any reasonably certain method by which the phenomena may be
obtained at will, and repeated, by anyone who takes the necessary
trouble. I turn now to the other main obstacle which confronts us.
It is equally serious, and even more obvious—indeed it is perfectly
familiar to us all. Dare I suggest that it may become even too
familiar? that one is in some danger (I speak for myself) of getting
used to it and acquiescing in it, as in something permanent and
inevitable ?
The obstacle I refer to is this. We need, and have not got, a
coinqwehensive hypothesis which will bind together all our phenomena,
or as many of them as possible, in one unified intellectual scheme.
We have now collected a very large mass of well-attested facts.
Most people who have examined the evidence are now agreed that
the occurrence of Telepathy, Clairvoyance and Haunting is pretty
firmly established. We can say the same of the cognitive phenomena
of Mediumship. I do not think we can say it of the physical pheno-
mena at present ; though here we must remember that in Poltergeist
phenomena, the evidence for which is quite good and fairly abundant,
we find something which is anyhow analogous to the alleged per-
formances of " physical " or " telekinetic " mediums. Further, it
seems to me that the evidence for Precognition is also fairly good.
But here there is a special difficulty. Some investigators seem to
think that Precognition is logically itnpossible , that the word stands
for a self-contradictory concept. I do not myself take that view.
But if they are right, of course no amount of evidence could esta-
blish the occurrence of Precognition, just as no amount of evidence
could establish the existence of a square table which is also circular.
Lastly, with regard to the " great question " of Survival we know
that there are great differences of opinion among those who are best
qualified to speak. But I think most of us will agree with Professor
Broad that the phenomena which have been established greatly
lessen the antecedent improbability of Survival, by showing that the
embodied human mind has cognitive powers which to all appearances
do not depend upon processes in its sense-organs and central nervous
system. And I think most of us will also agree that such evidence
as the Willett scripts provide at any rate confronts us with this
dilemma : either discarnate minds exist and can communicate with
the living, or else some incarnate human minds possess telepathic
and clairvoyant faculties of a staggeringly extensive liind.
So much for the reasonably well-estabKshed facts. But as to the
explanation of them, we remain almost as much in the dark as the
160] Presidential Address 315
pioneers of our enquiry fifty years ago. We can see, as they did,
that all these phenomena have their seat in the " subliminal
"
stratum of our personalities. But we can see very little more.
We can form no conception, or hardly any, of the modus operandi
of Telepathy and Clairvoyance. We have good reason to think that
Mediumship has some very close connection with the phenomena of
dissociated and alternating personality discussed by psychologists
and psycho-therapists ; but we cannot go much farther than that.
Again, if discarnate minds exist, we cannot conceive what manner
of existence they enjoy, without physical sense-organs, or physical
organs of action such as incarnate minds possess. For the whole
of mental life as we know it here is based upon two sorts of ex-
perience : the experience of sense-perception on the one hand, the
experience of action on the other. And how could either of these
occur in the absence of a body and a nervous system? I hazard the
suggestion indeed that the real difficulty about the Survivalist
Theory at present is not so much the lack of evidence—there is
quite a lot of evidence which favours it—but rather the apparent
imintelligibility of the theory itself. What I said about Pre-
cognition just now applies to Survival too. If the very notion of
an unembodied mental life is self-contradictory (and some persons
of the highest intelligence have thought so), then no amount of
evidence, however great, will do anything whatever to support the
Suxvivalist hypothesis ; for it will not really be a hypothesis at all,
but just a meaningless combination of words, which cannot even
be called false. I do not myself believe that the notion of an
unembodied mental life is self-contradictory, but I do think it is an
extremely puzzling and difficult one.
If I may venture to speak as a professional philosopher for a
moment, and offer as it were professional advice, I would suggest
that those who incline to the Survivalist hypothesis should spend
less of their time collecting evidence for it, and should rather turn
their attention for the present to the clarification of the hypothesis
itself. If they can succeed in shewing that it is an intelligible and
self-consistent hypothesis, in short, that it is a hypothesis and not
a meaningless combination of words (and I am inclined to think that
they could), they could then return to the task of collecting evidence
for it with the assurance that their labour would not be wasted.
I have now offered a very brief survey of the present condition of
our subject (so far as an onlooker may) ; and I am afraid that in
spite of all the excellent work which has been done, it is still a scene
of twilight and confusion, so far as the understanding of the pheno-
mena is concerned. Our situation is rather like that of Physics and
316 H. H. Price [part
Chemistry in the sixteenth century, before it had yet occurred to
people that the large-scale properties of bodies could be explained
by the motions and configurations of their minute parts : or rather,
before that suggestion had been taken seriously, and while it was as
yet a mere metaphysical speculation, put forward by one or two singu-
lar men two thousand years before. Until this obstacle has been
overcome, it is obvious that our subject cannot become a science in
the fviU sense of that word. And it is also obvious that this obstacle
is, after all, closely connected with the other one which we discussed
previously. Until one has a fairly comprehensive theory, however
inadequate, one cannot use the experimental method with much
profit. For that method, as Kant said, is eventually a way of forcing
Nature to answer our questions, and before we can employ it, we must
have a reasonably clear idea of the questions which we wish to ask.
In this situation, I think that our only safety lies in boldness. In
the collection of facts, one cannot be over-cautious. But in the
invention of theories, especially in a field so peculiar as ours, where
analogies drawn from the existing sciences are almost useless, a
canny and sober circumspection would be the greatest mistake. If
people accuse us of being speculative and even " metaphysical " we
must refuse to be frightened. We must postulate unverifiable
entities and processes if we cannot get on without them. The task
of philosophical deflation, of removing unnecessary metaphysical
entities, comes at the end of a science's progress, not at the begin-
ning ; if such writers as Hume and Mach and the modern Logical
Positivists had lived in the early seventeenth century, Physics
would never have got itself started. In short, we must not be
deterred by the fear of talking nonsense. If this maxim applies to
the early stages of any science whatever, it applies with a quite
special force to Psychical Research. The phenomena with which
we are concerned are so peculiar, and so unlike those visible and
tangible facts which ordinary language is designed to deal with, that
the right theory of them is hound to seem nonsense when first pro-
pounded. If we are still frightened, we may take comfort from the
history of Psychology in the last thirty years. The statements
" Smith is two different people at the same time " or " Smith is
one person on Thursday and another on Friday
'
' are on the face of
them sheer nonsense ;
they contradict our ordinary rules for the
use of the word " person ". Yet nobody (except a few very old-
fashioned philosophers) would now object to the conceptions of Dual
and Alternating Personality, or deny that they have thrown great
fight on some of the most obscure phenomena of the human mind.
Moreover, in our search for a comprehensive hypothesis we must
160] Presidential Address 317
not mind taking hints from quarters which are accounted scientifi-
cally disreputable. I am thinking again of the occult and mystical
traditions of the Far East. It is well to remember that in India and
the Buddhist countries men not necessarily inferior to Europeans in
intelligence have been devoting themselves for very many centuries
to the deepening and extension of human consciousness. In fact,
in a rather unscientific way they have been practising a kind of
Psychical Research for well over two thousand years. The theories
which they have been led to frame may have got mixed up with all
sorts of dubious theological and cosmological dogmas. Nevertheless
they may give us some help in framing a more adequate and genuinely
scientific theory for ourselves. We cannot afford to despise any
useful suggestion, from whatever quarter it may come. I even think
that the humble savage may have something to teach us. It is
greatly to be wished that more Anthropologists should be trained in
Psychical Research, and more Psychical Researchers in Anthropo-
logy. Even the most cuisory reading of Anthropological literature
is sufficient to shew that Anthropologists have collected a whole
mass of material which falls within our province, though their
scientific orthodoxy has usually led them to assume that it tnust
somehow be explained away as fraud and delusion.
But it is time for me to leave these general considerations and try
to practise what I preach. There is one fairly comprehensive
hypothesis which has commended itself in various forms to a number
of enquirers, and I shall devote the rest of this paper to the discussion
of it. If it is tenable it enables us to connect together quite a wide
range of supernormal phenomena. This is the hypothesis of a
something intermediate between mind and matter as we ordinarily
understand them : something which is in some sense material
because it is extended in space (though not necessarily in Physical
Space) and yet has some of the properties commonly attributed to
minds. This something was called by Frederic Myers " the
Metetherial ". More recently Mr. C. A. Mace, in a very interesting
address to this Society, has spoken of a " Psychic Ether ". In the
mystical literatm'e of the Far East we meet the same thing under
the name of Akasa, which again is usually translated " ether ".
Here I may mention a noteworthy point about these same Eastern
traditions. In the Sankhya philosophy,^ one of the six classical
1 The word Sankhya appears to mean something like " enumeration "\ Cf.
the dictum—I think it is the late Professor Alexander's—that the task of
philosophy is "to make an inventory of all the main types of entity in the
Universe ".
318 H. H. Price [part
Indian systems, we find a very sharp dualism between Purusha
(self or knowing subject) on the one side, and Prakriti (usually
translated " matter ") on the other. At first sight this reminds us
of the equally sharp dualism of Descartes between mind and matter.
But on further examination we are astonished to find that the line
is not drawn at all where Descartes drew it. Very much of what
we are accustomed to call " mind " is in the Sankhya system regarded
as material. Indeed everything that we call mental, except only pure
awareness, falls on the material side ; of course it has then to be
added that there are other forms of matter besides those revealed
to our ordinary senses. This idea, or something not unlike it, has
not been wholly unknown in our own philosophical tradition.
Some Western philosophers have rejected the familiar two-fold
division of matter and mind, and have preferred the threefold
division of matter, soul and spirit. Here " spirit " corresponds
to the Purusha of the Sankhya system, while " matter " and
" soul " together would correspond to Prakriti. At any rate
in both cases we have something intermediate between spirit
and ordinary visible or tangible matter ; and whether we reserve
the special name " soul " (ifjvx'q) for this something, or say that
it is a " higher" sort of matter, does not make so very much
difference.
However this may be, let us assume for the moment that there is
such an intermediate something and let us follow Mr. Mace in calling
it the " Psychic Ether ". In the remainder of this paper I shall
first try to make this elusive conception a little more definite ; and
I shall then try to show how it might be used for the explanation of
certain supernormal phenomena, notably the phenomena of
Haunting.
I want to start by returning to a topic which I have already
touched on in quite a different connection, the topic of mental images.
Philosophers and Psychologists have always supposed that mental
images are " subjective " : that is, that any given image is wholly
dependent for its existence upon the mind, and perhaps also upon
the brain, of the person who is aware of it, and moreover that it is
private to that person. They have also usually supposed, though
not quite always, that images are evanescent entities, which have no
existence (not even a mind-dependent existence) either before or
after the date at which we are aware of them ; so that I cannot be
aware of the same image to-day as I was aware of yesterday—an
assumption which of course does not necessarily follow from the
previous assumption of privacy and mind-dependence. Now
what is the evidence for these two assumptions? I do not think
160] Presidential Address 319
there is any conclusive evidence for either of them. The mere fact
that images are commonly called " mental " is no evidence. The
reason why we call them so is merely the fact that they are not
apprehended by means of the ordinary physical sense-organs, such
as the eye and the ear. They might well be mental in this sense
without being on that account mind-dependent, or private, or
evanescent. Perhaps it will be said that they are obviously " in
"
the mind which is aware of them. But this sort of argument, so
familiar in the History of Philosophy, will now deceive nobody. It
is either repeating in different words the very thing which has to be
estabhshed
—" in " may be just a synonym for " dependent on ".
Or else it is only saying that they are entities which we are directly
and immediately aware of. Certainly we are, but nothing follows
from this about their nature. Something which is " in " the
mind in this latter sense might perfectly well also exist " out
of "it.
I think then that we are entitled to deny these assumptions if we
like. Let us make the experiment of doing so. We will indeed
concede that every image is originated by a mental act—not neces-
sarily a conscious one—and that this act has its physiological corre-
late. But we will suppose that, once it has come into being, the
image has a tendency to persist in being ; and that it is not dependent
upon the mind for its continuance, as it was for its origination. The
mind which originated it might be aware of it from time to time
thereafter ; it might be " summoned up into consciousness
"
occasionally, or pop up of its own accord. But conceivably its
whole career from start to finish might be passed in the Unconscious.
We will also suppose that it is not necessarily private to the mind of
its original author, but is capable of presenting itself in suitable
circumstances to other minds as well.
How should the persistence of an image be conceived? I should
suppose that it is more analogous to the persistence of a process
{e.g. a prolonged noise) than to the persistence of a thing, such as a
brickbat. But I think this is a question of purely philosophical
interest, which need not concern us here. For our purpose no great
harm will be done if we speak of a persisting image as a kind of thing,
even though this is not strictly accurate.
I wish now to take a further step. Let us suppose that images
are not only persistent entities, but are endowed with causal pro-
perties. If you prefer to put it so, we will say that they are " dyna-
mic " rather than " static " entities, endowed with a kind of " force
"
of their own. I am not referring only to what Psychologists call
Ideo-motor Action, though that is part of what I mean ; nor even
320 H. H. Price [part
to what is called Association of Ideas/ thougli that again is part of
what I mean. I am thinking primarily of Telepathy. I know this
sounds absm-d. Telepathy is commonly regarded as a relation
between two minds or personalities. But is it not possible that the
relation between the two minds is derivative, and that the primary
and fundamental relation is one between two ?nenfal contents'^.
Perhaps the primary fact is that one mental content is capable of
modifying or even of generating another ; and when the two con-
tents happen to be contents of two different minds, we call the result
Telepathy. Now images are one important sort of mental contents.
Let us suppose then that every image is endowed with a kind of
telepathic charge, enabling it to modify or even perhaps to generate
other mental contents, which need not necessarily be contents in
the mind of its original author. This charge might vary in all sorts
of ways as between one image and another. It might also tend to
decrease with lapse of time, and we might suppose that when it
finally vanishes, the image itself ceases to exist. Thus some images
might persist in being, and retain their causal properties, for a very
long time ; while others might fade away quite quickly, and some
perhaps would hardly outlast the act by which they were first
originated.
Now if it is legitimate to think of images in this way—as persistent
and dynamic entities independent of the mind of their original
author, and able to escape as it were from his control—we might be
able to form some more definite notion of the Psychic Ether. It
might be an ether of images. If it were, I think it would have the
kind of properties which we require it to have. For an ether of
images would be something intermediate between mind and matter
as we ordinarily conceive of them ; while if we were prepared to
stretch these conceptions a good deal, then we could either call it
mental or call it material, as we liked. I will now try to explain this.
We are all familiar with the hypothesis of a Collective or Common
Unconscious. The suggestion is that although our conscious
personalities are isolated, yet in the deeper levels of the Unconscious
the distinction between I and you no longer exists. What does this
suggestion really come to? No doubt we picture the Common
Unconscious as a kind of continent, out of which our conscious
personalities arise lilie isolated mountain peaks. But this is after
all only a picture, useful as it may be. The unity of the Common
1 Is it possible that Association by Resemblance might occur without unity
of consciousness, so that an " idea " in my mind could be associatively ILaked,
by resemblance, with an " idea " in yours? Or is this suggestion too non-
sensical?
.160] Presidential Address 321
Unconscious cannot really be very like the spatial continuity of a
continent. I think that the hypothesis of a Common Unconscious
is to be regarded as a causal hypothesis. Suppose that a content
in my unconscious could directly affect a content in yours, and vice
versa, without any physical intermediary : for example, suppose
that a suppressed wish in me could directly cause a dream in you, and
conversely. Suppose that this happened with every content of my
unconscious and every content of yours. If this were so, what sense
would there be in speaking of the one unconscious as yours " and
the others as "mine"? Clearly there would be none. For the
imity of any unconscious can only be defined in causal terms. It is
a unity of law, or of interaction, since it cannot be a unity of space.
Thus the hypothesis of a Common Unconscious is only another way
of saying that at their deeper levels all personalities are in complete
and contmuous telepathic rapport. It is not an explanation of such
rapport, as it is sometimes thought to be, but only another way of
describing it. (There are further compHcations in this hypothesis,
which I will mention but not discuss. This telepathic rapport
might have different degrees of extensiveness, and perhaps different
degrees of intensiveness as well. It might be that each person's
unconscious interacted with everyone else's ; or only with some
other people's. Again, as between Smith and IVIrs. Smith it might
be complete—every content of the one might affect every content
of the other all the time—whereas between Smith and Robinson it
might be incomplete and intermittent. Further, it might be either
unilateral or reciprocal. A's mind might affect B's, whereas B's
mind did not affect A's, or not so much ; or both might affect each
other equally. When we take account of all these possibilities, we
see that the structure of the Common Unconscious might be ex-
ceedingly comphcated. Considered as a whole, it might have a very
weak and washy sort of unity, whereas there might be a number of
very strong and intimate unities within it. We coidd not then ask
" Are personahty A and personahty B united or separate? " We
should have to ask instead " How much, of a unity is there between
them? ")
Now I can return to the Ether of Images. When I suggested that
images might be dynamic entities as well as persistent ones, and
that each was endowed with a telepathic charge, this was only a
special and hmited form of the hypothesis of a Common Unconscious:
limited, because images are only one sort of mental contents. The
Ether of Images could equally well be described as a certain level or
range (perhaps rather a superficial one) within the Common Uncon-
scious : that level or range of it at which images persist and interact
322 H. H. Price [PART'
with each other more or less freely, no matter whose mind they
began their career in. For the laws of their interaction, and the
causal properties manifested in it, are psychological laws and pro-
perties, though they considerably transcend the perview of Orthodox
Psychology, since Telepathy is included among them. I hope I have
shewn, then, that the Ether of Images has mental properties ; we
could even say, with a certain stretching of language, that it actually
is a certain level within a common unconscious mind.
It remains to shew that the Ether of Images has material pro-
perties as well ;
naturally they will not be the same properties as
we ascribe to ordinary matter, but they might be somewhat like
them. Here the fundamental point is that images are spatial
entities. But they are spatial in a curious half-way-house kind of
fashion, which disconcerts us at first because we seldom reflect on
them (our ordinary tendency is to think by means of them rather
than about them). I will consider visual images mainly, but what
I have to say applies to tactual and kinsesthetic images too, and
perhaps to the other sorts. An image, then, has extension ; it has
a shape, sometimes even a stereoscopic shape. But it does not
necessarily have location. Of course the parts of a given image A
are located in relation to other parts of that same image. One part
is above another or to the left of another. This follows from the
fact that A is an extended entity. Again the image A may happen
to form part of an image-field (the image of a cat may form part of
the image of a drawing-room) : and in that case we can say that A
is located in relation to the other members of the same image-field.
But we cannot say that the image-field as a whole is located any-
where. It is spatial, in that it is extended and has spatial relations
within it, but it forms as it were a spatial world of its own. Likewise
if A is an isolated image, as it may be, we cannot say that A as a
whole is anywhere, though we can say where every part is in relation
to other parts. (We may either regard the isolated image as a
particularly simple image-field ; or we may regard the image-field
as a partictdarly complex single image.) I think that similar
considerations apply to size as well. If I have an image of a cat on
a hearthrug, I can say that the hearthrug-like part of the image is
larger than the cat-like part, and within the cat-like part the tail is
longer than the left-hand ear. But I do not think it is even intelli-
gible to ask how large the image as a whole is : (for example, is it
larger or smaller than someone else's image of Mont Blanc?). What
I have said about location obviously applies to motion too, and what
I have said about size applies to changes of size. An image can
move within its own image-field, and can change its size in relation
160] Presidential Address 323
to other images in the same field. But it cannot intelhgibly be said
to move from one image-field to another, nor to have grown larger or
smaller on the way. Or if we obstinately insist on saying that all
image-fields miist be " somewhere ", i.e. that there is a single space
within which all images whatever are located, then we shall have to
say that an image can move from one place to another without
passing through the intermediate places. But I think it is better to
say, as I have, that different image-fields are not interrelated
spatially at all, though each in itself is spatial ; and that the unifying
factor which unites them all into one single Ether of Images is not
spatial but causal.
If this still does not satisfy you, I will make a further suggestion.
Although there is nothing in the image-world which resembles the
relation of distance in the physical world—since one image-field is
neither near to nor far from another—yet there might be something
which has a faint analogy to it. It might be that in the Ether of
Images there are greater or lesser degrees of telepathic affinity as
between one image and another ; and there might be some degree
of telepathic affinity, however slight, between every image and every
other. And if such relations of affinity should happen to constitute
an order having dimensions, we might then be able to say that there
is an all-embracing image-space after all. But if so, it will be a
different kind of space from the one which we find within any one
image or any one image-field. It need not have three dimensions.
And even if it had. there would be no detailed correspondence
between it and the space of the Physical World. A's body and B's
body might be very close to each other in Physical Space, and yet
A's images and B's images might be very distant from each other in
the image-world. For there might be very little telepathic affinity
between A's images and B's, despite the relation of physical proxi-
mity between their respective bodies ;
conversely, there might be
the most intimate telepathic rapport between A and B, though their
bodies were a thousand miles apart.
I have now tried to show that an Ether of Images would have both
mental and material properties. It is either a queer sort of mental
world or a queer sort of material world, as we like, though neither
the word " mental " nor the word " material " can be applied to it
without a certain misfit and discomfort. Indeed all this talk of an
Ether of Images, or of a Psychic Ether at all, may well seem like sheer
nonsense when considered in cold blood. But as we saw earlier, this
is only to be expected. Any theory of these difficult matters is
bound to give our ordinary language-habits a pretty violent tweak.
If it does not, we can be sure that there is something wrong with it.
s
324 H. H. Price [part
I now want to illustrate the explanatory value of my hypothesis
by applying it to the phenomena of Haunting ^
;
perhaps it will have
to be modified somewhat in the process, and will emerge at the end
looking even queerer than it did at the beginning. We may divide
the phenomena provisionally into two classes : haunting without
physical effects, and haunting with physical effects. The second
class would often be lumped together under the head of " poltergeist
phenomena ". But I think this is inadvisable, at any rate as a first
step. For sometimes the physical effects have at any rate the prima
facie appearance of being produced by a discarnate mind, whereas
poltergeist phenomena proper seem to be produced " mediumisti-
cally " by the agency of an incarnate one. However, it is haunting
without physical effects which I wish to consider here : that is, cases
in which the haunting consists solely in the repeated occurrence of
phantasms or apparitions in a certain locality, including the occur-
rence of phantasmal smells or noises or touches. And let us suppose,
for the sake of definiteness, that the haunted locality is a certain
room in a certain house.
Now it has often been suggested that such apparitions are due to
some sort of locahsed trace or vestige or impress left in the matter
of the room. These traces would be the quite automatic result of
the emotions or other experiences of some person who formerly
inhabited the room, much as finger-prints result automatically from
our handling of a wine-glass or a poker. Thus on this view the
apparition is not a revenant, as popular superstition supposes—not a
deceased personality revisiting the scenes of its former experience
nor yet an " earth-bound spirit " lingering on in them—but is some-
thing more like a photograph or a cinematograph picture. (The
physical trace would correspond to the photographic negative ; and
it would be as it were " developed " when anyone with a suitable
mind and nervous system enters the room.) This is what Signor
Bozzano calls " the Psychometrical Theory " of Haunting. For in
Psychometry too we seem to find that a material object retains traces
of the past experiences of a person who was formerly in physical
contact with it. Signor Bozzano himself holds that this Psycho-
metrical Theory fits only some cases of haunting, indeed only a
relatively small number, and that the majority must be explained
by the activity of surviving and discarnate personalities, an activity
which may either l^e of the automatic and somnambulistic sort, or
of the conscious and intelligent sort. In this he may be right. But
' I shoukl like here to express my great obligation to Signor Ernest Bozzano's
book Les Phenomenes de Hantise (Alean, Paris, 1929).
160] Presidential Address 325
it seems a good methodological principle to push the Psychometrical
Theory as far as ever it will go.
Now if we attempt to work out this theory in detail, I think we
are driven to combine it with the Psychic Ether hypothesis. For
these traces, or whatever they are, are not of course independently
observable in the physical matter of the room, for instance in the
walls or furniture. (Contrast the traces on a gramophone record.
These are independently observable, as well as the sounds which they
enable us to hear.) If they are indeed physical traces, they must
consist in some more or less permanent mode of arrangement of the
molecules or atoms or infra-atomic particles, of which the walls,
furniture, etc., are composed. And in that case, it ought to be
possible to verify their existence by the ordinary methods of Physical
Science—by physical or chemical tests of some sort or other. But
so far as we know, tliis cannot be done. It is therefore natural to
suggest that the seat of these traces is something which is not
material in the ordinary sense, but somehow interpenetrates the
walls or the furniture or whatever it may be : something which is
Like matter in being extended, and yet like mind in that it retains in
itself the residua of past experiences. And this is just what the
Psychic Ether is supposed to be.
We have tried to conceive of the Psychic Ether as an ether of
images. Will this conception of it fit in with the requirements of a
psychometrical theory of haunting? I want to show that it will.
But I admit that there are difficulties ; and in order to surmount
them we shall have to introduce fresh complications.
The essential point in ova previous discussion was of course the
suggestion that images are persistent and dynamic entities, which
when once formed may have a kind of independent life of their own,
and may escape more or less completely from the control of their
author. Let us now suppose—despite of what we said earher about
their spatial properties—that in certain special circumstances an
image or group of images might get itself localised in a particular
region of Physical Space. (What circumstances, we shall see later.)
Once localised there, they might continue to be so locaHsed for a
considerable period, retaining the telepathic charge which they had
at fijst, though this might gradually diminish in intensity. Suppose
that a human being now enters the room ; and suppose there is a
telepathic affinity between the contents of his mind on the one hand,
and these persisting and localised images on the other. A telepathic
process then occurs. The result of this might only be that the
visitor feels a feeling of emotional malaise—which is not uncommon
in haunted places—accompanied perhaps by what is called a sense
326 H. H. Price [part
of presence ". Or again it might be a dream. Or finally, in the
most favourable cases, it might be the generation of a phantasm
located in his ordinary waking visual field (or tactual field as the case
may be). This apparition might be related to the persisting image
in much the same kind of way as the visual sense-datum of a chair
is related to the physical chair. For it would certainly be generated
by a process originating in the image (a purely psychical one, to be
sure, not a psycho-physical one) and it would be located in approxi-
mately the same place ; its shape might also be a perspectified
aspect of the shape which the image has. When a man is aware of
an ordinary sense-datum which is related to a chair in this sort of
way, we say he is 'perceiving the chair. And so we should be entitled
to say here that he is perceiving the persistent and localised image.
Moreover, if there were other persons in the room whose mental
contents had the required telepathic affinity with the persisting
image, we could say that these other persons too were perceiving
the persistent image as well as he. Likewise he or others might
perceive it again on some later occasion. Thus the persisting image
would be a kind of " public object ", as the chair is ;
except that
it would be " public to " a restricted class of persons—namely all
those, and only those, whose mental contents had the requisite
minimum ^ of telepathic affinity with it—whereas the chair is public
to all percipients with normal eyesight. On the other hand, though
public to different people, it would not necessarily be public to
different senses. It might be visible but not tangible, or tangible
but not visible ; or perhaps it could only be heard or smelt.
There is a further point which may be worth mentioning. If
we now take into account the fact that the persisting image did
originate in a living human mind, perhaps a long time ago ; and if
we prefer to conceive of telepathy as primarily a relation between
mind and mind, and not just between mental contents : then we
may say that haunting is a kind of deferred telepathy, resulting in the
production of a post-dated telepathic phantasm.. It will be a telepathic
transaction between Smith as he was ten years ago, when he lived in
this room, and me who am in it now. The telepathic impulse from
him will have been stored up, as it were, in the persistent and
localised image which he originated and left behind him long ago,
and the impulse only reaches me to-day when I come into the room.
This Une of reflection suggests another. The person who origi-
nated the image may still be alive at the time when the apparition
^ I say " requisite minimum " because we have evidence that the same
ghost may be perceived more clearly by some people and less clearly by others.
But cf. also pp. 339 et seq., below.
160] Presidential Address 327
occurs. (The theoretical possibility of " haunting by the living
"
seems to be actually confirmed in some of the records.) But it is
usually found that he is dead, and even that he died many years
before. Let us suppose that he is dead. Let us also suppose that
the haunting is of a fairly complex sort, though still without jjhysiccd
effects. For instance, we will suppose that the phantasm is seen in
a number of different rooms in the house, and it is seen to move from
one room to another, so that the phenomena are " cinematographic
"
rather than just " photographic ". Here then there is a group of
persisting images, interrelated in a fairly complex way. Now since
the original author of these images is dead, Anti-Survivalists will of
course wish to maintain that his mind has ceased to exist. But can
they quite maintain this, if our explanation of the phenomena is the
correct one? For, to put it crudely, a bit of him does still survive,
even though his body has long since disintegrated. This set of
interrelated images is something like a very rudimentary secondary
personality. It was split off from his main personality at the time
when he lived in this room ; it escaped from his control and acquired
an independent existence of its own. And it has succeeded in
" surviving " the disintegration of his body, even if we say that his
main personality has not. To be sure, it need not survive for ever.
Eventually the images may lose theii' telepathic charge and fade
away. The fact remains that it has succeeded in surviving for quite
a long period, possibly for many years. Of course it is very far
from possessing all the attributes of a personality. To call it even
a secondary personality, even though the adjective " rudimen-
tary " be added, is very likely an indefensible stretching of language.
All the same, it is an interrelated set of mental contents, endowed
(if we are right) with a certain telepathic power. Moreover, it is a
" cinematographic " phantasm which we are now considering
:
there is the appearance of movement and of changes of posture. It
is a series of visible or quasi-visible shapes. And in the manner in
which the series is interrelated there may be, and there often is, the
appearance of a rudimentary purpose. The complex of persisting
images is dominated as it were by a kind of idee fixe. If we did not
know that we were seeing a mere apparition, we should say " here
is a human being who is behaving in a curious somnambulistic way '
'
.
Thus, though it may be unjustifiable to call the set of persisting
images a rudimentary secondary personality, such language is not
without excuse. Perhaps in the circumstances, the crudest ter-
minology is the best. Let us repeat then that a
'"'
bit " of the
deceased personality has succeeded in surviving.
But once we admit this much, I think we have to go farther. If a
C
328 H. H. Price [part
bit of his personality has managed to survive, if something which is
at any rate quasi-mental has managed to carry on its existence for
years quite apart from a brain and nervous system, the survival
of a complete personality is not impossible ; the antecedent im-
probability of a complete or integral survival is at any rate
diminished. This conclusion is a somewhat curious one. For the
Psychometrical Theory of Haunting has seemed acceptable to many
people precisely because they thought it was an alternative to the
Survivalist explanation. And so in a way it is. But the alterna-
tives are not to clear-cut as they look. In the first place, there is
actually a Survivalist element in the Psychometrical explanation
itself, as I have just shown. It is a question of Jiow much survival
we must postulate in order to explain the phenomena of Haunting ;
we have in any case to admit the survival of something, and of
something quasi-mental. And secondly, as I have also shewn,
though the phenomena of Haunting do not in themselves require
the hypothesis of complete survival (since something very much less
will suffice to explain them), they do indirectly weaken the most
important objection against that hypothesis, by shewing that
something which is at least quasi-mental can exist in the absence of
a brain and nervous system.
The account which I have given of Haunting, in terms of persisting
and telepathically-charged images, is exposed to certain difficulties,
which I must now try to meet. Especially I have to make it
consistent with what was said earlier about the spatial properties
of the Psychic Ether. I have of course maintained all along that
this Ether is an Ether of Images. But I suggested above that the
Ether of Images is not a single spatial continuum. An individual
image, I said, or again an individual image-field, does have spatial
extension, and the notion of spatial location applies within it. But
I also insisted that between one image-field and another there are no
spatial relations in the ordinary sense, though there may be relations
of telepathic affinity, and these may conceivably be arrangeable in
an order having dimensions. But in the account which I have just
given of Haunting, it is of course essential to maintain that an image
or set of images can be quite literally localised in a certain region of
Physical Space, for example in a certain room. But if the Psychic
Ether as a whole is not a single spatial continuum, how can a part of
it be located in Physical Space which is a single spatial continuum ?
There is a further difficulty which arises from the suggestion that
Haunting is a sort of deferred Telepathy. For normal Telepathy
—including the sort which results in the production of a telepathic
160] Presidential Address 329
phantasm—seems to be independent of the spatial position of the
percipient's body. There may be a telepathic relation between
A and B when their bodies are many hmidreds of miles apart ; and
there may be none—or none that we know of—when they are only
a yard from each other. But Haunting, whatever theory we may
hold about it, seems to require a certain sort of spatial relation
between the percipient's body and the haunted place or object
:
moreover it must be a relation of spatial proximity. (Has a ghost
ever been seen at even two hundred yards' distance? The usual
range seems to be only a few feet.)
There is, however, a normal and fairly familiar phenomenon
which may help us here. It is possible to " project " a mental
image into space. Thus, with a certain effort, I can now project a
visual image of a black cat on to the carpet which I see before me.
The cat-like image is then located in my ordinary visual field. Much
the same can be done with auditory images. An auditory image
resembling the sound of a gramophone can be projected into space,
so that it is somewhat as if one were hearing a gramophone in the
next room. Some people will perhaps say that they cannot do these
things at all, and do not know what I am talking about ;
others, that
they can do them easily ; still others, including myself, that they
can do them occasionally and only with a special effort. I would
suggest, however, that this projecting of images is a process which
can and does go on in all of us automatically and perhaps frequently ;
and that these differences between one person and another are only
differences in the degree of consciousness which they have of it, and
in the degree of voluntary control which they have acquired over it.
I have already suggested that image-formatio?i is going on in all of
us all the time, whether we are aware of it or not ; and the same
might be true of image-projection.
We may notice that the projection of images is in any case a very
peculiar process, quite unlike anything which goes on in the Physical
World ; and this despite the fact that the image is a spatial entity,
having the properties of extension and shape. When the image is
" put " into my visual field, it is not at all like putting a book on to
the table or " projecting " a tennis ball into the street. The image
does not pass into my visual field from somewhere else, for it was not
located anywhere to begin with ; nor does it pass through other
places on the way. It simply changes instantaneously from a state
of being extended but twdocated to a state of being extended and
located. I know this sounds like nonsense. But I am simply
trying to describe a fairly familiar empirical fact. At least it is
familiar to myself and to a number of other people. If there are
330 H. H. Price [part
any among you who do not know from personal experience what I
am talking about, they must just take my description on trust
;
perhaps their faith may be strengthened by a consideration of the
phenomena of Hallucination.
Now we have been assuming—this is the basis of the whole argu-
ment—that images, once formed, can persist in being for a long
period, independent of the will or knowledge of their author. If so,
it is reasonable to suppose that once an image has been projected
into a certain region of space, it will remain there as long as it
continues to exist. We should have to admit that the images which
are responsible for haunting were probably projected unconsciously.
But I have already suggested that there is no difficulty in admitting
this. Thus even though the Ether of Images as a whole is not a
single spatial continuum, it appears that a certain bit of it (a certain
image or group of images) can come to be as it were " earth-bound
"
and tied to a particular place in the Physical World, by means of
the mechanism of image-projection. And then any telepathic
charge which the image may have can only take effect from that
particular place as a centre ; so that in this special case, though not
in others, a " radiation theory " of Telepathy might be feasible—
a
point which I will consider later.
I now turn to a second difficulty. The haunting apparition is
normally a more or less exact copy of the body of some person who
formerly lived in the haunted place. That indeed is the point of the
preposition " of " when we call it the ghost of Smith or whoever it
may be. (We ourselves have already compared it to a photograph
or cinematographic picture.) But is this at all what we should have
expected if the ghost is a persistent and projected image originating
in Smith's mind? Is it not most uncommon to form an image of
one's own body—especially an accurate one? The puzzle is in-
creased by the fact that the image would have to represent the visible
appearance of one's own body as seen from without. If the image
was formed and projected by Smith in some period of intense
emotion, surely the last thing he would be thinking of at such a time
would be the outward aspect of his own body—something which he
has only seen occasionally in a mirror ? Surely the ghost ought not
to be the ghost " of " Smith himself : it ought to be the ghost " of
"
some other person to whom his thoughts were turned at the time?
The difficulty is a serious one, and I think it applies not merely
to my theory, but to any theory which tries to explain the pheno-
mena of Haunting on " psychometric " lines. There seem to be two
ways of getting over it. First, it has been thought by some people
that there is such a thing as the mind of a place. They say it is a
160] Presidential Address 331
mistake to suppose that memory is exclusively a property of persons
and animals. They suggest that walls also have memories (as they
are said to have ears) ; or perhaps that a region of physical space, or
some extended something interpenetrating it, may retain a memory
of events which have gone on in it. This reminds us of the old and
queer speculations concerning an Anima Mundi, or soul of the world ;
only that here it would be an anima loci, the soul of a place. I do
not myself think that it is necessary to have recourse to anything so
strange as this ; I hope to show presently that the difficulty can be
met in a less extravagant way. But in case I am wrong in thinking
so, I should like to point out in passing that the hypothesis of an
anima loci is not really quite so queer as it looks at first.
At least it begins to look much less queer if one adopts a certain
theory of sense-perception and of the constitution of the material
world. This theory, which I think is quite plausible on other
grounds, is the one put forward by Bertrand Russell in certain works
of his middle period, notably Our Knowledge of the External World,
Mysticism and Logic, and The Analysis of Mind. According to it,
a piece of matter is not the relatively simple and tidy object which
we commonly think it to be, but is a vast and complex group of
sensihilia. Sensibilia are such entities as colour-expanses, sounds,
tactual pressures and the like. In fact they are just such entities
as are called sense-data or sensa, only that they persist in being
whether anyone is sensing them or not ; and the sense-data actually
sensed by human and other percipients are short temporal shces of
such persisting sensibilia. This theory has never yet been worked
out completely, and it is obviously exposed to serious objections
from both the Physical and the Physiological side. I think myself
that these objections can probably be overcome by making the
theory slightly more complicated, but it would not be relevant to
discuss the matter here. What concerns us now is the mode of
spatial location which the sensibilia are said to have. Each of them
is not only at a certain place but also from a certain other place, and
until we have mentioned both places, we have not completely
specified the sensibile's location. Thus a certain mountain, say
Skiddaw in Cumberland, is a vast and complex assemblage of
" views " which go on existing whether or not anybody is viewing
them. One of them will be a view of Skiddaw from the top of
Helvellyn, another will be a view of it from Keswick railway station,
others will be from various points in Derwentwater, and so on. And
when we say that they are views " of " it, each existing from its
proper place, we mean that they are members of the group which
collectively is Skiddaw.
332 H. H. Price [part
Now this theory may well be combined (as Lord Russell has in
fact combined it) with another theory which philosophers call
Neutral Monism.^ According to this, both mind and matter are
composed of the same constituents. Such entities as colour-expanses,
sounds and the like are not merely objects of a mind's awareness,
but actually constituents of that mind. If they are also constituents
of the material world, as the previous theory says they are, then
mind and matter overlap, and any case of sense-perception is a case
of such overlapping. We can now return to the hypothesis of an
annua loci. Consider any place P, say the middle ofa certain drawing-
room. Since colour-expanses and other sensibilia are continuously
existing from the place, whether or not any percipient organism
occupies it, we can regard these sensibilia as forming a group—
a
group united by the fact that all the members exist from the same
place P. And if the Neutral Monist theory of mind be adopted, we
could regard this group of colour expanses existing from P as con-
stituting a kind of rudimentary mind, the " mind of" place P, an
anima loci. To be sure, we must now take a further and even more
dubious step if we are to get the particular sort of anima loci we
want. We shall have to endow it with a rudimentary memory as
well. We shall have to say that when there are sensibilia existing
from a place, then memory-images also come into being which exist
from (or at?) that place, and which are more or less accurate repro-
ductions of these sensibiUa. These images, we shall have to suppose,
remain there permanently, and collectively constitute " the memory
of the place ". This is certainly a rather extravagant suggestion.
We ordinarily think that memory-images can only be generated in
connection with some sort of brain or nervous system ; and we are
still disposed to stick to this view about their origin, even if we
suppose—as I have been doing—that they acquire a more or less
complete independence afterwards. But of course many people also
think that such entities as colour-expanses only exist in connection
with a brain or nervous system. This is the familiar assumption of
the psycho-physiological " subjectivity " of sensible qualities, an
assumption which was taken over from the Cartesian philosophy of
the seventeenth century, and has been part of Orthodox Science ever
^ Cf. Russell, The Analysis of Mind, passim. The theory of Neutral Monism
was first worked out by Ernst Mach in his Analyse der Empfindungen (an
English translation has been published by the Open Court Company under the
title The Analysis of Sensations). But the theory had already been suggested
by Hume in his Treatise of Human Nature (p. 207 in Selby-Bigge's edition) and
in Berkeley's Commonplace Book, though not in his published works. If I am
not mistaken, there are also traces of the theory in some forms of Buddhist
metaphysics.
160] Presidential Address 333
since. If once we reject this assumption and say that such entities
as colour-expanses are actually constituents of the Physical World,
perhaps it is less difficult to say something similar about memory-
images, and to hold that they come into being automatically at any
place from which sensibilia exist, whether a nervous system occupies
that place or not.
So much then by way of showing that the notion of an anima loci
or place-mernory, fantastic though it be, is not quite so fantastic as
it seems at first sight. If a place can retain memory-images of the
views which formerly existed from that place, and if some of these
were views of Smith's body from without, and if these memory-
images are what we perceive now when we see Smith's ghost : then
it is very natural that the ghost resembles Smith's body as it would
appear to an external observer.
However, I do not think that we are compelled to accept this queer
theory. The difficulty which led us to discuss it can be solved in
another and simpler way. The difficulty, it will be recalled, was
this : if the external source which causes us to see the apparition is
an image which originated in the mind of Smith himself, why should
the apparition resemble Smith's own body as it woiild appear from
without? Indeed why should it resemble his own body at all? Now
fortunately there is an analogy which we may appeal to, which at
least shows that the thing can happen. I refer to the classical tele-
pathic phantasm. This seems to represent the agent's body as he
habitually thinks of it, and clothed in the clothes which he thinks of
himself as wearing (there is the well-known case of a telepathic
phantasm with a patch in the skirt). Sometimes there are additional
elements represented, as wounds or injuries, and sometimes the
phantasm appears dripping wet. These again are features which the
agent would think of as characterising his body at the moment,
though again he would not have seen them as they would look from
without. These considerations suggest that a mind can form an
image of its own body as it woidd appear from without. Presumably
such an image would be formed unconsciously, in accordance with
one's likewise unconscious beliefs about the visible characteristics
of one's own body. If this is indeed so, there is no reason why Smith
should not unconsciously "project an image of his own body into the
space of the room in which he is ; and this image, according to our
previous argument, will then persist there, to become in due course
the ghost " of " Smith. Perhaps such images of one's own body are
more liable to be formed and projected in periods of strong emotion.
Or perhaps they are formed and projected constantly (though
unconsciously) but in moments of intense emotion they may have a
334 H. H. Price [part
stronger telepathic charge, or a greater power of persistence, or
both.
So far we have considered the phenomena of Haunting from the
side of the object perceived. (The sense in which I am using the
word " perceive " has been explained on p. 326 above). This object,
we suggest, is an image or set of images originating in the mind of
someone who formerly lived in the place ;
projected by him into
space, probably unconsciously ; endowed with a certain telepathic
charge, deriving perhaps from the emotions he felt at the time ; and
persisting in that place thereafter, independent of the mind or will
of the original author. But we have still to consider the situation
from the other side, the side of the percipient who " sees " the
apparition ; and we have to try to understand, as far as we can, the
process by which the seeing comes about.
This process can hardly be analogous to the physical and physio-
logical processes which underly our normal visual experience. The
ghost which I see may be in the middle of a room which I also see ;
but the two seeings must be caused in different ways, even though
the final results of the two causal processes are similar. For on any
theory, and whatever the external factor in ghost-seeing may be, it
can hardly be something which emits or reflects ordinary light-rays.
Otherwise it would be an ordinary physical object, whose presence
could be detected by the ordinary methods of Physical Science.
Moreover, it would not then have the restricted publicity which
ghosts do have, but the unrestricted publicity of an ordinary physical
object, and it would have to be tangible as well as visible. Could it
then be analogous to a rainbow or mirage, which is visible but not
tangible? No, for even so its publicity would not be sufliciently
restricted. Anyone with normal eyesight would then be able to see
it, provided he stood in the right place ; and this is not found to
happen. And of course if the external factor in ghost-seeing is what
I myself have said it is, namely a persistent and localised mental
image, it certainly cannot emit or reflect light-rays, even though it is
located in the space of the physical world ; it is in the physical
world, but not of it. We have accordingly suggested that the process
which enables us to perceive it is not physical but telepathic—a kind
of deferred Telepathy.
But if it is telepathic, there is a serious difl&culty to be faced. For
it appears that this telepathic process, unlike all others, must be
subject to spatial limitations. If it were a case of ordinary Tele-
pathy, ought I not to see the ghost equally well whether I am here,
or in the next street, or in America, provided that I have the right
160] Presidential Address 335
sort of telepathic receptiveness ? But actually of course I shall only
see it if I am physically present in the haunted room. Shall we then
be driven to say that in this type of case, though in no others, a
" radiation theory " of Telepathy is correct? Shall we say that the
persistent and localised image emits a radiation of a sort unknown to
Physical Science, and that this affects the brain and consequently
the mind of the percipient ? I do not think we cotdd hold in any case
that the radiation affects his eyes. For, if so, it ought to be subject
to the same kind of laws as ordinary light : and the shape, size and
position of the apparition ought to be altered by the interposition
of lenses, prisms or mirrors, which does not apparently happen.
AVe have to remember too that sometimes the ghost is only " seen
"
in a dream, when the percipient's eyes are shut ; and sometimes he
does not see it at all, and yet he may still experience a vivid " sense
of presence Thus I think we should have to say that these radia-
tions, if such there be, affect the central nervous system directly ;
not indirectly, by way of a peripheral sense-organ, as light-rays or
heat-radiations do. Perhaps this is what happens. But if we are
inclined to accept this account of the matter, we must face the con-
sequences. The central nervous system is nothing but a physical
object of a very complex sort ; and any radiations which can cause
changes in it must surely be physical radiations, detectable by the
methods of Physical Science (even if not yet detected) and able to be
diverted or modified by purely physical means. Moreover, if I may
repeat it again, the entity which emits them must then itself be a
physical entity, and must itself be detectable by these same methods :
for example, by electrical methods of some very refined sort. Are
we prepared to accept these consequences? We certainly cannot say
that at present there is any empirical evidence for their truth : and
if they are false, the radiation hypothesis must also be false.
I think then that although the process which results in the seeing
of a ghost is undoubtedly spatial in some sense—as the very meaning
of the word " haunting " implies—yet it is not helpful to conceive
of it as any sort of radiation, at least in our present state of ignorance.
And if it be a telepathic process, we have got to account somehow
for the spatial limitations to which it is subject. Can we find any
other way of accounting for them, once the radiation theory is
rejected? The answer I am going to offer is perhaps the most
unplausible of all the unplausible things I have suggested in the
course of this address ;
you may think that in putting it forward I
am surrendering to the wildest superstitions of the Occultists.
I want to suggest that there may be some truth in the theory of an
" aura " or " psychic atmosphere " surrounding the body of a living
336 H. H. Price [part
person. This theory, if you like, is just another application of the
Psychic Ether hypothesis which is the main theme of this address.
For this psychic atmosphere would have some of the properties of
matter (namely spatial extension and location in Physical Space)
and some of the properties of mind. It would be a portion of this
Psychic Ether localised in and around a certain place, the place
where a living human body now is ;
just as a ghost is a portion of
this same Psychic Ether localised in a place where a living human
being formerly was. And I suggest, though I do not quite know the
meaning of what I say, that the "stuff" of which this psychic
atmosphere is composed is the same as the " stuff " of which images
are composed. I will even say, if you prefer, that it actually consists
of a vast mass of unconsciously and automatically projected images
—images which form the habitual mental content of the person in
question—all mixed up together, and having so to say a certain
" mass-effect " characteristic of that particular person. I think this
suggestion, peculiar as it may seem, will fulfil our requirements in a
way in which the Radiation Theory would not. The psychic atmos-
phere surrounding the percipient is spatial in quite a literal sense.
Yet it is not physical, as his nervous system is. and no physical
instrument could detect its presence.
We may then proceed to suppose that the thing which the ghost-
image primarily affects (by means of the telepathic charge inherent
in it) is not the percipient's central nervous system, and still less his
eyes or other peripheral sense-organs, but rather this psychic
atmosphere which surrounds and perhaps interpenetrates his body.
This does at least enable us to say that the two terms involved in the
transaction are in pari materia ;
for the one is a mental image, and
the other is either an assemblage of images or is at least composed
of " imagy " stuff. We do not have to hold that the one term (the
ghost-image) is non-physical and the other physical, as we should if
we said that the recipient of the telepathic transmission is the central
nervous system. Nor do we have to hold that the one is spatial and
the other non-spatial, as we should if we supposed that the recipient
is the knowing subject or Pure Ego, which is not literally in space at
all. Both terms—the persisting and localised image on the one side,
the percipient's psychic atmosphere on the other—are alike in being
spatial, yet neither is physical. Thus it is at any rate somewhat
easier to conceive of a direct causal transaction between them.
Before going farther, we must turn aside to consider another
difficulty which is at first sight entirely different from the one which
concerns us at present. But I think we shall find in the end that it
will help us to form some notion of the causal process by which
160] Presidential Address 337
ghost-seeing is conditioned. It is a difficulty which applies to any
theory of Haunting. It is this. Why is it that so few places are
haunted? If the haunting of a house (anyhow the type of haunting
which we are discussing) is ultimately caused by the emotions or
other experiences of persons who formerly lived there, surely any
house which has been inhabited for twenty or thirty years ought to
be haunted, and indeed haunted by a number of different ghosts?
In a town of any age, almost every street corner ought to be packed
with apparitions. Even a new house ought soon to be haunted by
ghosts of its still-living inhabitants. (As we have seen already,
" haunting by the living " is not unknown. But why is it not a great
deal more frequent?)
You may reply perhaps that it is not enough that Smith should
have lived in the house, nor even that he should have had emotions
of certain sorts there ; what is required is that he should have had
emotions of very great intensity, and these after all are not so very
common. Even so, in any house which has been inhabited for a
century—no great age for a house—such intense emotions must
surely have occurred quite a niuxiber of times. Births, deaths,
serious illnesses, accidents, are bound to have occurred in the house-
hold. And what about prisons and law courts, or places where
religious manifestations of the more extreme kind have been
systematically promoted? What about railway stations? Arrivals
and departures often cause extremely strong emotions. So even if
we say that great intensity of emotion is a necessary condition of
haunting, even so it would seem that there ought to be a great deal
more haunting than there actually is. It is of course true that a
special type of percipient is required. It is not everyone who can see
a ghost, even granting that the requisite conditions are present on
the objective side. But even so, such percipients do exist. Should
we not expect them to see vastly more ghosts than they do see ? For
the objective conditions, it would seem, must be fulfilled in a very large
number of cases.
The solution I would myself suggest is this. I think we should
boldly agree that, so far as the objective conditions go, every place
which has been inhabited for any length of time is haunted by a
large number of ghosts. The trouble is, I suggest, that as a rule it is
haunted by too many, so that their effects obliterate each other. I
will explain myself. In any long-inhabited place there will be quite
a large number of persistent and locahsed images, imconsciously pro-
duced and projected by the minds of those who have inhabited it.
I suggested just now that the " psychic atmosphere " surrounding a
person might be a kind of mass-effect due to a large number of
338 H. H. Price [part
different images which he unconsciously projects. Perhaps in the
same sort of way every room which has been inhabited for some time
has its psychic atmosphere, and likewise every law court and railway
station. This psychic atmosphere of the room will be a kind of
blending of all the persistent images which have been unconsciously
projected into it from time to time. These different images will have
different telepathic charges—corresponding to differences of type
and intensity between the emotions with which they were originally
associated. The result will be a kind of confused amalgam of the
whole lot. Consequently, the percipient, even though he has all the
requisite subjective qualifications for ghost-seeing, will only be able
to say that the room has a characteristic " feel " about it ; he will
not be able to see anything. It might even be that the telepathic
charges of the different images cancel each other out, so that nothing
is either felt or seen.
I am much inclined to think that the same kind of thing may
happen in ordinary Telepathy : that telepathic " impulses " in
great numbers are continually reaching everyone, but that normally
they inhibit each other, just because they are so numerous and so
diverse. If so, the reason why most of us appear to receive no tele-
pathic impressions is that we receive too many, so that no one of
them makes any distinct or individual mark upon our minds. If
this parallel is not acceptable, I will appeal to a frankly materialistic
analogy, drawn from the more familiar world of the Detective Story.
When a certain object, say a poker, has been handled by a great
number of people, it will be useless to look for thumb-prints on it
:
not because there are none, but because there are too many, and
they are all blended together into an undififerentiable mess. So it
may be with the persisting images which previous occupants of a
room have left behind them. Just because they are so numerous
and so different, no one of them makes any individual impression
upon the mind of the percipient. The place is so much haunted
that it seems not to be haunted at all.
We can now turn back to our previous question concerning the
causal process which results in ghost-seeing. I suggest that the
first thing required is the overlapping or interpenetration ^ of two
" psychic atmospheres ", the one which surrounds the percipient's
^ We have no reason to suppose that images are impenetrable to other
images, as material particles are impenetrable to other material particles.
So far as we can tell, two localised images could be in the same place in Physical
Space. However, if images are mutually impenetrable, the process which
I have called interpenetration ought rather to be described as a blending or
mixture, analogous to the blending of two liquids or gases.
160] Presidential Address 339
body and the one which pervades the room. This interpenetration
of the two psychic atmospheres will be the spatial condition which
has to be fulfilled if the ghost is to be seen. This is the substitute
which I would offer for the Radiation Theory discussed and criticised
above. For we may suppose that this interpenetration will cause
changes in the psychic atmosphere of the percipient. Ex hypothesi
a man's psychic atmosphere is affected by processes in his mind. I
now want to suggest that the causal relation between them may be
two-way, so that his mind is in turn affected by changes in his
psychic atmosphere, which after all consists of mental contents
belonging to him ; for images, though projected into space, are still
mental entities. If this be granted, a man's psychic atmosphere will
be a kind of secondary body, related to his mind in the same kind of
way as the ordinary physical body is, though perhaps more inti-
mately. (The notion of a " spiritual body " additional to the
" physical body "'
is of course an old and familiar one ; what is new
is only the suggestion that it is composed of unconsciously projected
images, or at any rate of image-like stuff.)
But obviously this spatial interpenetration of two psychic atmos-
pheres—the percipient's and the room's—is not a sufficient condi-
tion of ghost-seeing, but only a necessary (indispensable) condition.
As I have already said, I think that a telepathic process is also
required. I have suggested that every persistent and localised image
has a telepathic charge. We may further suppose that telepathic
charges can differ in at least two distinct ways : in quality and
intensity. We will next re-introduce the notion of telepathic affinity
which was mentioned some time ago. This, it will be remembered,
was a relation between two psychical contents which makes it
possible for the one to have a telepathic effect upon the other.
Now the localised and persistent image, which is the external or
objective factor in Haunting, may have a greater or lesser degree of
telepathic affinity with the contents of the percipient's psychic
atmosphere, or perhaps even none at all ; whether it has much, or
little, or none will depend on the quality of the telepathic charge
inherent in it. If the affinity is slight or non-existent, nothing will
happen, even though the spatial conditions for ghost-seeing are
completely fulfilled. And even though the telepathic affinity is
great, still nothing will happen if the intensity of the telepathic
charge is too low. But let us suppose that the affinity is great and
the telepathic charge very strong. Then the localised image will
have a telepathic effect upon the percipient's psychic atmosphere,
and that again upon his mind. In consequence, he will j^roduce and
project a phantasm. And if this phantasm corresponds pretty
T
340 H. H. Price [part
closely in shape, size and location to the persistent image which
started the process, then we may say that he is " perceiving " the
persistent image itself. (How shall we discover whether the phan-
tasm 'c^oes correspond to the persistent image? We discover this
indirectly, by finding out whether it has a sufficiently close resem-
blance to the body of some former inhabitant of the room.) Thus
the final stage of the process will be the same as it is in the case of
the classical telepathic phantasm. The difference will be in the
earlier stages. For the occurrence of the classical telepathic phan-
tasm is not dependent upon any particular spatial relation between
the agent and the percipient. Moreover, in haunting the immediate
agent is not a mind, but only an image : though the ultimate agent
is the mind which originated and projected the image long ago. So
it is a case of deferred telepathy, resulting in the production of a
" post-dated " telepathic phantasm. I have indeed myself suggested
that in all telepathy, of whatever sort, the immediate and primary
source of the telepathic impulse is a psychical content rather than a
mind. Even so, the difference between Haunting and Classical
Telepathy still remains. For in Classical Telepathy the telepathi-
cally-active psychical content is actually contained in a complete
and living personality ; whereas in Haunting it has long since got
dissociated from the mind which originally owned it, and indeed that
mind (if the Anti-Survivalists are right) may long ago have ceased to
exist.
We were asking a few pages back why ghost-seeing is a com-
paratively rare occurrence. We can now add something to our
answer. The reason we gave Avas that most places are haunted too
much and as it were too promiscuously. If an apparition is to be
seen, there must be a certain constituent in the psychical atmosphere
of the room which stands out, so to speak, from the rest. We can
now see that it must stand out in two different ways, both in respect
of quality and in respect of intensity. To use the same sort of analogy
as before : if a lot of signatures were written all over a small piece
of paper, one on top of the other, you could not read any of them.
You would see only a confused l)lur. But if one were written in red
ink and all the rest in black, you might be able to read the red one
quite well. And you would be more likely to do so if the ink
in which it was written had been particularly strong and lastiug.
Even so, you would not succeed if you happened to be colour-
blind.
It may, however, be that great intensity in the telepathic charge
can compensate for otherwise unsuitable quality. Conversely, if the
quality is exactly right (if there is the maximum degree of telepathic
160] Presidential Address 341
affinity between the persisting image and the mental contents of the
percipient) this may compensate for feeble intensity. In terms of
om" analogy : one might still be able to pick out the red signature
from the confused black ones, even if it had faded ; and even if a
man was colour-blind he might still be able to pick out one which
was written in much brighter and fresher ink than the rest. These
conditions as to quality and intensity are perhaps not likely to be
fulfilled so very frequently. And this may incidentally account also
for the many instances in which a man sees just one ghost in his life,
without giving any other evidence of supernormal powers, telepathic
or otherwise.
I must now bring my remarks to a close. I am well aware that the
theory of Haunting which I have sketched is full of loose ends.
For one thing, it is much too narrow, in that I have spoken as if
images were the only important sort of psychical contents, which is
far from being true. Again, the theory has in any case been restricted
to one special type of Haunting, the type in which there are no
physical effects ; it could only be extended to cover other types by
introducing additional assumptions, which might have to be very
outrageous. Worst of all, my whole explanation may be sheer
nonsense from start to finish. Certainly I tremble to think what a
hash might be made of it by an even moderately competent second-
year student of Philosophy. And yet the initial step, upon which
everything depends, the suggestion that mental images may persist
in being apart from the mind of their author, is not so utterly extra-
vagant, but only unfamiliar. The current view, that they exist only
so long as the act of " imaging " goes on. has been simply taken for
granted without any solid argument. And once this initial step is
taken, the additional assumptions I have made are, I do not say
easy, but at any rate not so very difficult.
However this may be, the risk of nonsense has got to be taken.
Unless we are prepared to take it, our subject will never advance
out of the fact-collecting stage into the maturity of a genuine
science. For, as I have pointed out already, the phenomena which
concern us are so unlike those which ordinary language is designed
to describe, that the right theory of them, when found, is bound to
seem nonsensical at first. We may safely predict that it will be the
timidity of our hypotheses, and not their extravagance, which will
provoke the derision of posterity.
342 //. H. Price [pabt
Apj)endix
There are two rather curious questions which are worth men-
tioning, though they He somewhat outside the hne of my main
argument.
1. According to the " psychic atmosphere " theory sketched
above, one would expect that persons would sometimes be haunted
as well as places. For the psychic atmosphere of a person, like that
of a place, consists of a mass of projected images, and they will
presumably be telepathically charged. We should expect that
sometimes some one of them would stand out from the rest in respect
of its quality and intensity, especially if it is connected with some
strong and prolonged emotion. In that case it ought to be per-
ceptible to a suitably-qualified percipient. I thinlc there is evidence
that this does sometimes happen, though I do not know how good
the evidence is.
2. Does anyone ever see the ghost of himself1 When a man
comes into a room which he has inhabited for years, ought he not
sometimes to see an apparition of himself, sitting in his favourite
chair? Haunting by the living is not maknown, as we have seen.
One would almost think that " self-haimting " would be the most
common case of it, and indeed that it ought to be quite frequent.
The best condition would be that in which the percipient is the sole
inhabitant of the room and it has never previously been occupied by
anyone else. Perhaps this does not happen so very often ; even so,
it must happen sometimes. , .:
If, however, self-haunting never occurs,^ this is a serious difficulty
for my theory. Surely an image projected by myself would have the
maximum degree of telepathic affinity with my present mental con-
tents ? It would seem then it ought to cause me to see an apparition,
even if it has no effect on anyone else.
The only solution I can suggest is that the telepathic affinity may
be too perfect. Perhaps telepathy only occurs when there is some
degree of shock or intrusion. Perhaps a telepathic charge behaves
like an electric charge. If two neighbouring bodies have exactly
the same electric charge, there is no electrical discharge from the one
to the other. .. :
Even so, we should expect that when an adult man revisits the
home of his childhood, he would sometimes see the ghost of himself
as he formerly was, even though he never sees the ghost of himself
^ Signor Bozzano [Phenomenes de Hantise, p. 184) says that it did once occur
to Guy de Maui^assant. " En rentrant chez lui il se voyait assis dans son
fauteuil." The authority for the story is said to be Paul Bourget, but un-
fortunately Signor Bozzano does not give the reference.
160] Presidential Address 343
as he now is ; for his childish emotions were presumably different
from his present ones, and so the images which he then projected
would have a different telepathic charge from the images which
make up his psychic atmosphere now. Or shall we reply, talcing a
hint from the Psycho-analysts, that he still retains his childish
emotions to tHs day, in undiminished strength, though they are now
repressed into the Unconscious?
344 Professor Sigmund Freud [part
OBITUAEY
Professor Sigmund Freud
Professor Sigmund Freud died in London on September 23, 1939,
at the age of 83, after a long and painful illness. He was born in
Moravia in 1856, but from the age of four he lived in Vienna until
1938, when, after the annexation of Austria by Germany, he found
refuge in England. He studied medicine in Vienna and at first his
interests lay in the field of cerebral anatomy and physiology. The
various branches of medicine proper, apart from psychiatry, had no
attraction for him and after a short period of study under Charcot
in Paris, he settled down in 1886 as a specialist in nervous disorders.
Abandoning the treatment of organic nervous diseases he confined
his work to the treatment of the neuroses. At first his principal
instrument of work, apart from haphazard and unsystematic
psycho-therapeutic methods, was hypnotic suggestion. From the
first he used hypnotism not only as a means of giving therapeutic
suggestions but also for questioning the patient about the origin
of his symptoms. The value of this procedure he had learnt from
Dr Josef Breuer, a Viennese physician, and its further extension by
Freud led in the end to the development of the methods of Psycho-
analysis in which hypnotism is not used.
The momentous nature of Freud's discoveries might have been
suspected from the storm of op|)osition and obloquy which they
encountered on first being disclosed ; and nothing in Freud's life-
history is more impressive than the courage and persistence with
which he devoted himself to work which was not only unappreciated
by his fellow physicians but was derided by the greater part of the
world. Only after more than ten years of solitary work did his
teaching begin to get a hearing among psychologists. Then gradu-
ally a small band of pupils from other countries, attracted by his
teaching, gathered around him in Vienna and in time helped to
spread a knowledge of his doctrines throughout the world.
160] Obituary 345
The first noticeable recognition of Freud's work by academic
psychology was an invitation from Professor Stanley Hall to deliver
a course of lectures on Psycho-analysis at Clark University in the
United States. Freud was greatly heartened by his reception in
America. " In Europe," he said, " I felt as though I were desj^ised ;
but over there I found myself received by the foremost men as an
equal."
Interest in psycho-analysis was greatly stimulated by the AVar of
1914-1918, for during its course psychologists and medical men were
forced to admit the part played by mental factors in the production
and treatment of war neuroses. Since those days acknowledg-
ment and understanding of Freud's work have steadily increased and
at the present time it is recognized throughout the world as the most
important contribution to psychology and to therapeutics that has
ever been made by one man. And it is not only in these two spheres
that its effects are seen. There is no department of knowledge
related to man's life and behaviour that has not been influenced by
Freud's teaching.
Freud was a corresponding member of our Society and contributed
to Proceedings a paper entitled a " Note on the Unconscious in
Psycho-analysis ". It w^as indeed in his prolonged researches on the
unconscious that his work approached most closely to the interests
of Psychical Research. He was at all times sceptical of alleged
supernormal phenomena but he appeared to have an open mind on
the possibility of the occurrence of telepathy. At the end of a paper
on ' Dreams and Telepathy " written in 1922, he said : Have I
given you the impression that I am secretly inclined to suj^port the
reality of telepathy in the occult sense? If so, I should very much
regret that it is so difficult to avoid giving such an impression. In
reality, however, I was anxious to be strictly impartial, I have every
reason to be so, for I have no opinion ; I know nothing about it."
Such a statement is entirely in keeping with Freud's attitude
towards all judgments of belief or mibelief. Some of his own
discoveries were at first sight as unbelievable as those of psychical
research and the advice he gave to the detractors of Psycho-analysis
is equally applicable to the critics of Psychical Research :
" If
owing to ignorance of the subject you are not in a position to adjudi-
cate, then you should neither believe nor reject ... no one has a right
to conviction on these matters who has not worked at the subject
for many years, as I have, and has not himself experienced the same
new and astonishing discoveries."
Those who knew Professor Freud best are at one in their judgment
that he was not only a great psychologist but also that he was a
346 Professor Sigmund Freud [part
great man. His undeviating search for truth in spite of all opposition
and opprobrium has never been surpassed in the history of science.
His equanimity under neglect and misrepresentation, his serenit}'
under trial and affliction, his bearing under cruelty and injustice,
are the marks of a truly great man.
T. W. M.
160J Review 347
REVIEW
SiGMUND Freud. Moses and Monotheism translated from the
German by Katherine Jones. The Hogarth Press. Pp. 223.
Price 8s. 6d.
Historical research has traced the origin of monotheism to Egypt,
and according to Freud the monotheism of the Jews was but a
continuation and development of the beliefs of the worshippers of
the Sun God Aton during the reign of the Pharaoh Ikhnaton of the
Eighteenth Dynasty : Moses was an Egyptian, probably of high
rank, and an enthusiastic adherent of the Aton religion in which the
sun was worshipped not as a material object but as a symbol of a
Divine Being whose energy was manifested in his rays. When
Ikhnaton died the Aton reUgion was abolished and Moses attached
himself to the Israelites settled in Egypt, became their leader and
converted them to the religion of his teacher Ikhnaton. He led the
Israelites out of Egypt and for a time they accepted his teaching,
but when they found the hardships of the Exodus more than they
could bear they rebelled against him, murdered him and relapsed
into idolatry.
The murder of Moses by the rebellious Israelites is the central
point in Freud's theory of the revival and final victory of mono-
theism in Jewish religion. In this book he applies the views on the
origin of religion which he had put forward a quarter of a century
ago in his book Totem and Taboo. Totemism, in which Freud finds
the beginnings of all religion, arose in prehistoric times after the
murder of the " primaeval father " by the sons of the " father-
horde ". The sons loved the father, but they also hated him. They
were jealous of his jjower and his possession of all the desired things
of life ; so they banded together and killed him. After his death
the sons suffered remorse, and the love and reverence towards the
father was displaced on to the totem animal which was treated as a
father-substitute. The hate towards the father fomid vent in the
totem feast in which the totem animal was killed and eaten.
This crime, the murder of the primaeval father, has lain heavy on
humanity ; it is the " original sin " of mankind. Every god that
348 Review [part
man has worshipped has been a personification of some aspect of the
fatlier, every act of worship has been a plea for condonation of the
sin and an appeal for the continued love and protection of the
all-powerful father. Man's need for God arises when he feels his
helplessness against the forces of nature that threaten his existence
and cause him anxiety. His ideas of God are based upon his child-
hood experience of his father—one who was powerful to protect him
from danger and to whom he could turn in time of trouble. And
just as in childhood he turned to his earthly father for protection,
so, when grown up, he turns to his heavenly father when no earthly
help can be found.
The murder of Moses by the Israelites was a repetition of the
murder of the primaeval father, and stirred up and intensified the
feeling of guilt associated with the original sin ; and although the
Israelites for a time tried to gain reassurance by straying after
strange gods, in the end they came back to the one and only God
whom Moses had taught them to worship.
The influence of events of early childhood on later life is one of
the cardinal tenets of Freud's teaching, and he applies to the life
of the race the same principle which he found to be so important
in the individual life. In the life of the individual such influence
is most strikingly shown in the development of the neuroses. Some
painful experience in childhood is repressed and forgotten ; after
a period of latency it may, for one reason or another, get stirred
up again and give rise to mental conflict ; in the end it forces its
way into consciousness in a distorted form as a neurotic symptom.
Painful experiences in the life of the race are also forgotten and
after, it may be, centuries of latency may give rise to racial symp-
toms. According to Freud the rise and development of religion is
such a symptom which has its roots in the murder of the primaeval
father and his later representatives. But while we may speak of
the memory of events in the individual life being repressed in the
unconscious, it is not easy to conceive of a racial unconscious in
which the memories of repressed racial experience are conserved.
The possibility of something of this kind that would account for
what appear to be racial memories has been suggested many times
in Freud's writings and he considers the evidence on which his con-
clusions are based so strong that he now ventures to assert that
" the archaic heritage of mankind includes not only dispositions,
but also ideational contents, memory-traces of the experiences of
former generations ".
In advocating this doctrine Freud is well aware that he is, as often
before, in opposition to orthodox opinion. He is accepting the trans-
160] Review 349
niissibility of acquired characters and the existence in the indi^ddual
of innate ideas.
" Though we may admit ", he says, that for the memory-traces
in our archaic inheritance ^Ye have so far no stronger proof than
those remnants of memory evoked by analytic work, which call for
a derivation from phylogenesis, yet this proof seems to me con-
\dncing enough to postulate such a state of affairs. ... It is bold,
but inevitable."
If we accept this view it may be found to have an unsuspected
bearing on some of the problems of Psychical Research. For not
only would our archaic inheritance provide memory-traces of racial
experience but it might also account for the occasional manifesta-
tion by hirnian beings of what appear to be supernormal powers. It
has sometimes been suggested that what appears to be supernormal
faculty in man is often analogous to some of the normal capacities
of the lower animals which have in the course of evolution been lost
to the human race. For example, many careful observers of animal
life have expressed the belief that there is telepathic communica-
tion between members of the same species, that their instinctive
activities sometimes appear to be guided by foreknowledge, and
that the acuteness of some of their special senses is comparable to
the hyperacuity displayed by human beings in certain trance states.
Indeed the ability or tendency to go into trance may be derived
from the same source. A scientific friend of Freud assured him
" that the Yogi by their practices of withdrawal from the world,
concentrating attention on bodily functions, peculiar methods of
breathing, actually are able to produce new sensations and diffused
feelings in themselves which he regards as regression to primordial,
deeply buried mental states ". Freud connnents :
" There would
be connections to be made here with many obscm"e modifications
of mental life such as trance and ecstasy."
Although behef in archaic inheritance such as Freud postulates
is requisite for a full appreciation of this book, the ditficulties in the
way of acceptance of such belief and the evidence in support of it
are not discussed at any length in the text. The whole of the argu-
ment is based on the results of psychoanalytic research, and it may
be that only readers who are conversant with these results ^vill fully
grasp the significance of Freud's speculations. Some of the con-
clusions arrived at are dependent upon the interpretation of data
provided by ethnological and historical research, and there will be
criticism of this work by those who do not accept the views of the
writers on whom Freud relies for his interpretations. Thus, for
example, he has l^een reproached for adhering to the description of
350 Review [part 160]
the totem feast given by Robertson Smith (a man, by the way, who
suffered for his heretical opinions very mucli as Freud has suffered
for his), since later ethnologists have unanimously rejected Robert-
son Smith's theories. But, Freud says : "A new theory does not
necessarily denote progress. ... It was my good right to select from
ethnological data what would serve me for my analytic work."
Convinced as he was of the truth of his own psycho-analytical
findings, he felt justified in adopting any views of competent investi-
gators in other fields that are consonant with his own, whether these
views are generally accepted or not.
Moses and Monotheism is a characteristic example of Freud's work
both as a thinker and a writer. It is well translated and has an
adequate index. T. W. M.
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
Professor Henry Sidgtvick - 1882-84.
Professor Balfour Sietvart.F.E.S. 1885-87
Professor Henry Sidgwick - 1888-92.
The Earl of Balfoitp,, E.G., O.M. 1893.
Professor WiLLiAir .Tames - - 1894-95.
Sir William Crookes, O.M.,F.Il.S. 1896-99.
Frederic W. H. Myers - - 1900.
Sm Oliver Lodge, F.ll.S. - - 1901-03.
Sir William B.uirett. F.K.S. - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet - 1905.
The Eight Hon. G. W, Balfoto - 1900-07.
JlRS Henry Sidgwick - - 1908-09.
H. Arthur Smith - - - 1910.
Andrew Lang - . . . 1911.
Et. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpen-
ter, D.D. 1912.
Professor Henri Bergson- - 1913.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. - - 1914.
Professor Gilbert Murray,
LL.D., Litt.D. - - - - 1915-16.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D. - - 1917-18.
Lord Eayleigh, O.M., F.R.S. - 1919.
W. McDouGALL, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B. 1920-21.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D. - - - 1922.
Camille Flammarion - - - 1923.
J. 6. Piddington - - - - 1924-25.
Professor Dr Hans Driesch - 1920-27.
Sir Laavrence .T. Jones, Bart. - 1928-29.
Dr Walter Franklin Prince - 1930-31
ilRS Henry Sidgwick (President -i
of Honour) " " "
f
1932.
Sm Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. - J
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E. - - - - 1933-34.
Professor C. D. Broad - - 1935-36.
Lord Eayleigh, F.E.S. - - 1937-38.
OFFICERS AKD COUNCIL FOR 1939.
PRESIDENT.
Pkofessoe Henry Habberley Price, New College, Oxford.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Earl of Balfour.
George B. Dorr.
Professor Dr Hans Driesch.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Laa\tience J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D.
J. G. Piddington.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M.,
F.R.S.
COUNCIL.
The Earl of Balfour.
Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P.
Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D.
Wm. Brown, M.D., D.Sc.
W. Whately' Carington.
Professor E. R. Dodds.
Olh^ee Gatty.
Sir Robert Goweb, K.C.V.O., M.P.
Gerald Heard.
Lord Charles Hope.
Professor Julian Huxley.
Miss I. Jephson.
Sir L.awrence J. Jones, Bart.
G. W. Lambert.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E.
T. W. ]\Iitchell, M.D.
Miss I. Newton.
W. H. Salter.
Mrs W. H. Salter.
H. F. Saltmarsh.
S. G. SOAL.
Admiral The Hon. A. C. Strutt,
R.N.
The Rev. C. Dray'Ton Thomas.
Miss Nea Walker.
M. B. Wright, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
Admiral The Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
HON. SECRETARY.
W. H. Salter, The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
HON. EDITOR.
. Mrs W. H. Salter, The Crown House, Ne^vport, Essex.
EDITOR OF THE 'JOURNAL'.
K. Richmond.
RESEARCH OFFICER.
• - C. V. C. Herbert.
AGENTS FOR AMERICA.
The F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
352 Members and Associates [part
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
DECEMBEE, 1939.
President—Professor Henry Habberley Price.
"Vice-Presidents.
The Eight, Hon. the Earl of Balfour, P.C., LL.D., Fishers Hill, Woking.
George B. Dorr, 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Hans Driesch, Ph.D., M.D., LL.D., Zollnerstrasse 1, Leipzig,
Germany.
L. P. Jacks, "LL.D., D.D., Far Outlook, Shotover Hill, Oxford.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.E.S., Normanton House, Lake, nr. Salisbury.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D., Yatscombe, Boars Hill,
Oxford.
J. G. Piddington, Fishers Hill, Woking.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M., F.E.S., Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
Honorary Members.
Professor R. A. Fisher, F.E.S., LTniversity College, London, W.C. 1.
Miss Alice Johnson, 1 Millington Eoad, Cambridge.
Miss I. Newton, 259 Holly Lodge Mansions, Highgate, London, N. 6.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, 43 Elm Park Mansions, Park Walk,
London, S.W. 10.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.E.S., Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
Corresponding Members.
Professor Henri Bergson, Bd de Beau Sejour 47, Paris, France.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York, U.S.A.
Dr Max Dessoir, Speyererstrasse 9, Berlin, W. 30, Germany.
Professor Pierre Janet, rue de Varenne 54, Paris, France.
Dr C. G. Jung, Seestrasse 228 .Kusnacht, E. Zurich, Switzerland.
Count Carl von Klinckowstroem.
Mauric(! Maeterlinck, Villa des Abeilles, Nice, France.
Profes.'^nr T. K. Oesterreich, Nauklerstrasse 23, Tubingen, Germany.
Dr Eugene Osty, Avenue Niel 89, Paris, France.
Dr Eudolf Tischner, Ditliudenstrasse 18, Munich, Germany.
Carl Vett, 13 Kongen's Nytorv, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Dr Elwood Worcester, 186 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
160] Members and Associates 353
Honorary Associates.
Dallas, Miss H. A., Bellevue Hotel, Hurstpierpoint, Sussex.
Hill, J. Arthur, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. A., University of the Witwatersrand,
Johannesburg, S. Africa.
Irving, Rev. W. S., Oxenhall Vicarage, Newent, G-los.
Morton, Dr Eva, 24 Park Crescent, Portland Place, London, W. 1.
Muirhead, Professor J. H., Dyke End, Rotherfield, Sussex.
Richmond, Kenneth, 82 North End Road, Golders Green, London,
N.W. 11.
Sage, Prof. Charles M., rue de Coulmiers 33, Paris XIV^, Prance.
Spinney, G. H., 4 Overhill Gardens, Dulwich, London, S.E. 22.
Tanagra, Dr A., Odos Aristotelous 67, Athens, Greece.
Tenhaeff, Dr W. H. C, Adm. v. Gentstraat, 53 bis, Utrecht, Netherlands.
Thouless, Professor R. H., Yorke House, 83 Newmarket Road,
Cambridge.
Wereide, Dr Th., The University, Oslo, Norway.
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is prefixed to the names of Members.
*Agar, Miss E. M. F., York Corner, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Aitken, Lionel G., 82 Portland Place, London, W. 1.
*Albemarle, Countess of, Quidenham, Norwich.
*Albery, George C, K.C., City Hall, Meaford, Canada.
Allan, Miss J., Invergloy House, Invergloy, Inverness-shire.
Allen, Professor H. J., Marley Orchard, Kingsley Green, Haslemere.
*Amson, Mrs E. W., The Beverly, 125 East 50th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
*American Society for Psychical Research, 40 East 34th Street, New
York, U.S.A.
*Anderson, Lady, Ballydavid, Woodstown, Waterford.
Anderson, Mrs Henry C, 20 Hermitage Drive, Edinburgh.
Andrews, Dr Marion B., Orsett, 14 Derryvolgie Avenue, Belfast.
Anstey, Brigadier E. C, R.A., D.S.O., 1 Ashdown Road, Epsom,
Surrey.
*Arbuthnot, Miss Mary E., Davies' Hotel, 10 Brompton Square,
London, S.W. 3.
*Ardron, G. H., Thatched House Club, St. James's Street, London, S.W.I
.
*Arnold, Miss Edith J., 27 Ardingly Drive, Goring-by-Sea, Sussex.
*Assheton-Smith, Lady, 30 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W. 1.
*Auden, Harold A., Daleniere, Lynn Lane, nr. Lichfield, Staffs.
Austen, H. W. C, M.D., Dormy Pool, Saxmundham Road, Aldeburgh.
Bacon, Mrs Sewell, Gate House, Northwood, Middlesex.
*Baker, Miss Mabel, 17 Ivydale Grove, London, S.W. 16.
354 Members and Associates [part
*Balfour, Right Hon. tlie Earl of, P.O., LL.D., Fishers Hill, Woking.
*Balfour, Dr Margaret I., 14 Sylvan Road, London, S.E. 19.
*Balfour, The Lady Ruth, Balbirnie, Markinch, Fife.
*Ball, Mrs J. H., 11 Nevill Park, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
*Barber, N. F., M.Sc, The Links, Twickenham Road, Hanworth, Middx.
*Barlow, Fred, Drakeford, Pool Head Lane, Wood End, Tanworth-in-
Arden.
Barrett, Lady, M.D., 42 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
*Barrow, Mrs E. M., 40 Weoley Park Road, Selly Oak, Birmingham.
*Barrow, J. R., c/o Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street, London,
S.W. 1.
*Batchelor, E., 4 Palace Mansions, London, W. 14.
*Bax, Chfford, G., 2 The Albany, London, W. 1.
*Beadon, Mrs, 52 Lower Sloane Street, London, S.W. 1
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton.
*Ben, Mrs A. H., The Old Vicarage, Cuckfield, Sussex.
^Benedict, Mrs George W., The Tudor, Beacon Hill, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Bendit, L. J., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 41 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
*Bennett, Sir Ernest, M.P., 8 Holland Park, London, W. 11.
*Bentley, W. P., 4214 Swiss Avenue, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
*Besterman, Theodore, Guyon House, 98 Heath Street, London, N.W. 3.
*Betjeman, John, Garrard's Farm, Ufiington, Berks.
*Bicester, The Lady, Mitford House, Lennox Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
*Birley, Mrs Oswald, Corner House, 62 Wellington Road, London,
N.W. 8.
*Bishop, Miss G. M., M.A., Domek, Badlake Hill, Dawlish, S. Devon.
Blathwayt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
*Blaine, Mrs Emmons, 101 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.
*Blennerhassett, Mrs Richard, 74 Elm Park Road, London, S.W. 3.
*Bligh, Stanley M., Cilmery Park, Builth Wells, R.S.O.
Bois, Henry G.
Bond, Mrs W. C, Shalesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
''•Borland, Dr Douglas M., 26 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
-^Borland, Mrs D. M., 26 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
Bosanquet, Miss Theodora, 1b Bay Tree Lodge, Frognal, London,
N.W. 3.
*Bousfield, W. R., K.C., F.R.S., St Swithins, Northwood, Middlesex.
Bouwens, B. G., 1 Museum Chambers, Bury Street, London, W.C. 1.
Bowen, Miss Anna C, Hotel Richmond, Batavia, N.Y., U.S.A.
^Brandt, Rudolph E., 36 Fenchurch Street, London, E.G. 3.
Brewster, Bertram, 59 Madeley Road, London, W. 5.
*Broad, Professor C. D., Litt.D., Trinity College, Cambridge.
*Broch, Dr Leon, 76 Cuba Street, Habana, Cuba.
*Brooke, Anthony W., The Priory, Redbourn, Herts.
*Brookes, Mrs Norman, 206 Romain Road, Melbourne, Australia.
*Brown, B. H. Inness, 120 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A.
Brown, Charles, M.B., Tinto Bank, Kirkcaldy.
160] Members cuul Associates 355
*Brown, Mrs J. Hally, Craignaliullie, Skelniorlie, Ayrshire.
*Brown, William, M.A., M.D., D.Sc, F.E.C.P./ 88 Harley Street,
London, W. 1.
*Browne, 0. H., 14 Burbidge Grove, Soutlisea, Hants.
*Bruce, Eev. W. J. Wallace, Meath Park, Coleraine, Co. Londonderry.
*Bruck, Dr Carl, Prenzlauer Allee 25, Berlin N.O. 55, Germany.
*Bulford, Staveley, 20 Eaton Terrace, London, S.W. 1.
Buller, Professor A. H. Reginald, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg,
Canada.
*Burton. Mrs Arthur, Stenson, Cromer. Norfolk.
*Bury, Henry, The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Bournemouth.
Bury, Mrs Henry, The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Bournemouth.
Butler, Mrs Charles, 4 Prideaux Road, Eastbourne.
*Butt, Lady, c/o Midland Bank, Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
*Butter, Colonel C. J. A., Cluniemore, Pitlochry, Perthshire.
*Caldwell, Dr Harmon White, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia,
U.S.A.
Campbell, CoHn E., 35 Ebury Street, London, S.W. 1.
Campbell, Rev. Canon R. J., D.D., Heatherdene, Fairwarp, nr Uckfield,
Sussex.
*Campbell-Lang, Miss, Craig Lora, Connel, Argyllshire.
Candler, H. A. W., 43 Gondar Gardens, London, N.W. 6.
Candler, Miss M. I., 43 Gondar Gardens, London, N.W. 6.
*Cannon, Alexander, K.C.A., M.D., Ph.D., etc., 53 Welbeck Street,
London, W^. 1.
*Canziani, Miss Estella, 3 Palace Green, London, W. 8.
*Carden, W. A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Korea, Trappes Street, Worcester,
CP., S. Africa.
*Carington, W. Whately, M.Sc, 5 Fitzwilliam Road, Cambridge.
*Carpenter, Mrs J. W., 5 Rathgar Close, Dollis Avenue, London, N. 3.
Carrington. Hcreward, Ph.D., Box 33, Station Y, New York City,
U.S.A.
*Carruthers, Miss Helen, 10 King's Bench Walk, London. E.C. 4.
Carter, Mrs H. L., Section G.l, Lloyds Bank, 6 Pall Mall, London,
S.W.I.
Case, Miss A. J., 17 Bailbrook Road, Batheaston, nr Bath, Somerset.
*Cave, Charles J. P., Stoner Hill, Petersfield, Hants.
*Chambers, John, Mokopeka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand.
*Chaudhuri, M.C., S.D.O., P.W.D., Gauhati, Assam, India.
*Cheatham, Rev. Thaddeus A., Pinehurst, North Carolina, U.S.A.
*Chesters, Denis, Pinnocks. Tadley, Basingstoke.
Chitty, Hubert, F.R.C.S., 46 Pembroke Road, Clifton, Bristol.
Clapham, J. H., King's College, Cambridge.
Clarkson, Mrs St John, 73 Whitelands House, Kinos Road, London,
S.W. 3.
Clay, Hon. Mrs, 11 Tite Street, London, S.W. 3.
^elements, Mrs P. H., 26 St Andrews Road, Earlsdon, Coventry.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., 206 The Shawmut, 2200 Nineteenth Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
356 Members and Associates [part
Clwyd, Lady, Bryngwenallt, Abergele, N. Wales.
*CIoclirane-Baillie, Captain the Hon. Victor A., 46 Circus Road, London,
N.W. 8.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., White Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
*Cole, The Lady Eleanor, Fishers Hill, Woking.
*Collins, B. Abdy, Deccan House, Aldeburgh, Suffolk.
*Collins, H. S., c/o Barclavs Bank, 160 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
^ColUns, Seward, 235 B. 22nd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Colquhoun, Miss B. M., Appletree Cottage, Sacombe Green, Ware,
Herts.
*Cooke, P. A., 7 Foulser Road, London, S.W. 17.
Coombe-Tennant, A. H. S., 18 Cottesmore Gardens, London, W. 8.
Cooper, Rev. Canon F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cornish, J. Easton, Cutley House, Rue Allenby, Mustafa Pasha,
Alexandria, Egypt.
*Corry, Miss Lucy, 13 Argyll Road, London, W. 8.
Cort van der Linden, P.W.J.H., Zuiderpark 2, Groningen, Holland.
*Cox, Mrs G. PL, Duck Pond Road, Glen Cove, Long Island, N.Y ,
U.S.A.
*Craik, Lady, 5a Dean's Yard, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
*Crandon, L. R. G., M.D., 366 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Crofts, J. W., High Rigg West, Panorama Drive, Ilkley, Yorks.
*Crosfield, Miss M. C, Greensand, 78 Doods Road, Reigate, Surrey.
*Cruuden, Miss Edwina, c/o Crunden & Martin Mfg. Co., St Louis,
Mo., U.S.A.
*Cuddon, Eric, 2 Pump Court, Tem])le, London, B.C. 4.
*C*uthbert, Chester D., 302 Harliison Avenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada.
*Cuthbert, H. D., Beaufront Castle, Hexham, Northumberland.
d'Arcy, Rev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
*Dart, Rev. J. L. Campbell, Presbytere St Georges, 7 rue Augusta
Vacquerie, Paris, XVI.
*Davies, Benjamin, 6 South Marine Terrace, Aberystwyth, Cardigan-
shire.
*Davies, Powys, c/o Thos. Cook & Son, Berkeley Street, London, W. 1.
*Davis, F. M., Etive, London Road South, Lowestoft, Suffolk.
Davys, Lieut.-Colonel G. I., O.B.E., I.M.S., c/o Grindlay & Co., 54
Parliament Street, London, S.W. 1.
Day, Miss Mabel K., M.A., 15 Elgin Court, London, W. 9.
*de Janasz, Robert, 40 Bnnismore Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
De Jong, Dr K. H. B., Beeklaan, 356, The Hague, Holland.
*De Koven, Mrs Reginald, 1025 Park Avenue, New York City,
U.S.A.
Deland, Mrs Lorin F., Kennebimkport, Maine, U.S.A.
*Dewar, Lady, Brookhill House, Cowfold, Sussex.
*Dewey, Rev. Sir Stanley D., Bart., Peak House, Sidmouth, Devon.
De Wyckoff, Joseph, Arlena Towers, Ramsey, N.J., U.S.A.
*Dhar, Bansi, Government Intermediate College, Allahabad, U.P., India.
160] Members and Associates 357
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
*Dickson, Mrs B. W. A., Little Bridgen, Bexley, Kent.
*Dingwall, E. J., D.Sc, 19 Grange Court, Pineliurst, Cambridge.
*Di Veroli, Dr Ing. G-., Via Manzoni 43, Milan, Italy.
Dixon, Hugh N., 17 St Matthew's Parade, Northampton.
*Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 92 Inverness Terrace,
I London, W. 2.
*Dodd, Archibald, J.P., Cowley Mount, Cowley Hill Lane, St Helens,
Lanes.
*Dodds, Professor E. R., 62 High Street, Oxford.
Donne, Mrs, Merifield, Devizes, Wilts.
*Doxford, W. R. Dallas, 43 Swan Court, London, S.W. 3.
Drew, R. C, Morwenna, Topsham, Devon.
Dryer, T. E., King's College, Cambridge.
*Duckworth, Mrs Arthur, 43 Catherine Street, London, S.W. 1.
*du Croz, G. L., 2 Eaton Mansions, Sloane Square, London, S.Vv^. 1.
*Duguid, Julian T., The Patch, Hill Head, Fareham, Hants.
*Dundas, Mrs R. W., LTpper Walton House, Walton Street, London,
S.W. 3.
Dunne, D. P., 1.37 Victoria Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Dupre, Pierre V. C. W., The Firs, Sj^aniards Road, Hampstead Heath,
London, N.W. 3.
*Edgeworth, F. H., M.D., 20 Combe Park, Bath.
*Elder, Frederick, 21 Essex Villas, Kensington, London, W. 8.
*Eliot, Hon. Lady, Port Ehot, St Germans, Cornwall.
Elliot, Mrs Gilbert, 60 Wynnstay Gardens, London, W. 8.
*Enthoven, Mrs F. V., 44 Carlton Hill, London, N.W. 8.
*Esler, Alexander R., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Datchet, Bucks.
*Evans, Christopher C, 27 Storey's Way, Cambridge.
*Evans, John T., Windwhistle, Radcliiie-on-Trent, Notts.
*Evelyn, C. J. A., Wotton House, Dorking, Surrey.
*Ezra, Sir Alwyn, 143 Esplanade Road, Fort, Bombay, India.
*Falk, Mrs, 7 Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol 8.
*Farkas, Captain Gustav, C.F.L., Kongolo, Belgian Congo.
Felkin, Mrs, 119 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W. 1.
*Findlater, J. W., 16 Cutenhoe Road, Luton, Beds.
*Fischer, S., 305 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
*Fisk, George W., The Spinney, Ditton Grange Close, Ditton Hill,
Surrey.
*Flagg, Don Perley, M.D., R.F.D.I., Box 524, Tujunga, Cal,
U.S.A.
^Fleming, Ian L., 22b Ebury Street, London, S.W. 1.
Flugel, Professor J. C, 20 Merton Rise, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
*Fodor, N., Ph.D., 140 W. 55th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Foot, Miss Katharine, 31 Brookfield Mansions, London, N. 6.
^Francis, Mrs Francis.
*Frankland, E. G., LL.B., 42 Holland Avenue, Cheam, Surrey.
Freeman, A'Lss A. C, Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Freeman, Rev. Canon, Bentley, Chfton Hill, Bristol, 8.
358 Members and Associates [part
''Frew, Miss K., 347 Sutton Common Road, Sutton, Surrey.
*Frith, Mrs W.
*rry, Miss Agnes, Orchard Hill, Brent Knoll, Highbridge, Som.
*Gantz, Mrs W. L., Herewards, Bures, Suffolk.
*Garton, Wilfred, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 41 The Drive, Chingford,
London, E. 4.
*Gatty, Oliver, Riversdale, Grantchester, Cambridge.
*Gavorse, J., 329| West 21st Street, New York, U.S.A.
Gay, The Hon. Mrs C. H., Higham Hall,'nr Rochester, Kent.
*Gharagozlou, Mme. Naghi Khan, Khiaban Arbab Jamshid, Teheran,
Iran.
*Gibbes, Miss B. B., 25 Jubilee Place, London, S.W. 3.
*Gibson, Edmond P., De])t. of Psychology, Duke University, Durham,
N. Carolina, U.S.A.
*Gilbert, A. Stuart, 7 Rue Jean du Bellay, Paris, IV.
Giles, Mrs, 19 Highfield Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Glasson, J. W., I.C.S., Glanusk, Soy, Kenya Colony.
*Godden, Miss L. E., Chakrata, Littleton, Winchester.
*Goldney, Mrs, 157 Rivermead Court, Hurlingham, London, S.W. 6.
'^Goldschmidt, Mrs de. Lane End, Burchetts Green, Berks.
Gooch, Dr G. P., South Villa, Campden Hill Road, London, W. 8.
*Gower, Sir Robert, K.C.V.O., O.B.E., Sandown Court, Tunbridge Wells.
* Grant, Malcolm.
*Grant-Suttie, Colonel H. F., W^ar Office, Whitehall, London, S.W. 1.
*Green, Lady, Gotwick Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Green, Mrs Alan B., Acton Castle, Marazion, Cornwall.
^Greenwood, L. H. G., Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
*Gregory, C. C. L., F.R.A.S., Mote House, Courtlands Avenue, Mill
Hill, London, N.W. 7.
*Grifiath, Mrs W. S. A., 19 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
Grignon, Miss A. E., 41 Filton Avenue, Horfield, Bristol.
Grosvenor, Hon. Mrs Norman, 2 Upper Grosvenor Street, London, W. 1.
Grottendieck, W. G., rue v/d Noot 8, Brussels-Molenbeek, Belgium.
*Grugeon, C. L., The Chestnuts, Henley-on-Thames.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
Haldar, Professor Hiralal, P 49 Manicktolla Spur, Calcutta, India.
*Hall, B. Fairfax, 34 Holland Park Road, London, W. 14.
Hall, Wilfred, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
''Hamilton and Brandon, The Duchess of, 25 St Edmund's Terrace,
London, N.W. 8.
*Hamilton, Mrs T. Glen, 185 Kelvin Street, Winni23eg, Canada.
Hammond, Miss Winifred B., 2034 S.E. 51st Street, Portland, Oregon,
U.S.A.
*Handley-Seymour, Major J. B., 1 Wadham Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
*Hannen, Mrs E. C, Ouseleys, Wargrave, Bucks.
*Hanson, Mrs, The Pleasaunce, 4 Grassington Road, Eastbourne.
*Harding, Norman, 18 North Common Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
*Hare, Dr A. W., 59 York Road, Birkdale, Lanes.
*Harmsworth, Mrs Desmond, 13 Hyde Park Gardens, London, W. 2.
160] Members and Associates 359
*Harrington, E. J., Greensand, Heath Road, Petersfield, Hants.
Harris, Alan C, c/o Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co., 14 Place Vendome,
Paris, France.
Harris, Mrs W. F., 13 Westbourne Avenue, Hull.
^Harrison, V. G. W., Ph.D., Inglemere, Dagden Road, Shalford,
Guildford, Surrey.
Harrison, William, Downs View, Tattenham Corner, Epsom, Surrey.
Hart, Mrs H. H., 59 Aberdare Gardens, Hamj^stead, London, N.W. 6.
*Hart, Hornell, Ph.D., Duke University, Durham, N. Carolina,
U.S.A.
*Harvey, Professor J. W., 6 Claremont Road, Headingley, Leeds, 6.
*Haslam, Oliver H., Cairngill, nr Dalbeattie, Kirkcudbrightshire.
*Hawkins, J. Gordon, 480 Elhs Street, San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.
*Hayes, Rev. J. W., Towerville, The Crescent, Loughton, Essex.
*Head, Mrs Geolfrey, 24 Charles Street, London, W. 1.
*Heard, Gerald, 8766 Arlene Terrace, Laurel Canyon, Hollywood,
Cahfornia, U.S.A.
Hemenway, Mrs Augustus, Readville, Mass., U.S.A.
Henderson, J. J., 71 Westville Avenue, West Caldwell, Is. J., U.S.A.
Henderson, Mss Lihan, The Gables Cottage, North Lane, Canterbury.
*Herbert, C. V. C, 3 King's Mansions, Lawrence Street, London, S.W. 3.
*Hesketh, The Lord, Easton Neston, Towcester, Northamptonshire.
*Hettinger, John, Ph.D., Broseley, 63 Drewstead Road, London,
S.W. 16.
*Heywood, Mrs. Frank, The Cottage, Sunningdale, Berks.
*Hichens, Mrs W. Lionel, North Aston Hall, Oxfordshire.
Hildyard, F. W.
*Hill, Miss Marianne, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford, Yorks.
*Holdsworth, H. H., Westholme, Sandal, Wakefield, Yorks.
*Hole, Rev. Donald, 35 Selby Road, Eahng, London, W. 5.
*Hollick, Captain A. J., Kelsall Lodge, Sunninghill, Ascot, Berks.
*Holhck, Mrs A. J., Kelsall Lodge, Sunninghill, Ascot, Berks.
HolUns, Mrs A. E., Dunsfold Rectory, Godalming, Surrey.
*Holm, Kjiut H., c/o Anderson, Clayton & Co., Barranqueras (Chaer),
Argentine.
*Hope, Lord Charles M., 26a North Audley Street, London, W. 1.
*Hoppe-Moser, Dr Fanny, Haltenegg ob Thun, Waldheim, Switzer-
land.
*Hort, Miss Greta, University Women's College, Melbourne, N. 3,
Australia.
Hoseason, A. G., The Bungalow, Tanworth-in-Arden, nr Birmingham.
Hotblack, Frank A., Great Frenches Park, Crawley Down, Sussex.
*Howe, E. Graham, M.B., B.S., 146 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
*Howell, Mrs Philip, 5 Carlyle Square, London, S.W. 3.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., Mendip House, Headington Hill, Oxford.
Hurwitz, W. A., Ph.D., White Hall 8, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove Lawns, St Albans, Herts.
*Huxley, Professor JuUan S., Zoological Society of London, Regent's
Park, London, N.W. 8.
360 Members and Associates [part
*Hydari, Hon. Sir Akbar, P.C., Dilkusha, Khairatal:)ad, Hyderabad,
Deccan, India.
*Hyland, C. W., Ph.C, 300 Commissioner Street, Johannesburg East,
Transvaal, S. Africa.
*Hynes, Miss Gr., 4 Provost Road, London, N.W. 3.
*Innes, Lady Rose, Kolara, Gibson Road, Kenilworth, Cape, S. Africa.
*Irving, Rev. W. S., Oxenhall Vicarage, Newent, GIos.
*James, Mrs Bayard, 405 East 54tli Street, New York, U.S.A.
*James, Colonel E. A. H., R.E., Cox's Hall, Stanford-in-the-Vale, Berks.
*James, Miss S. Boucher, 2 Whitehall Court, London, S.W. I.
*Jameson, David.
*Janson, E. W., Balfour House, 119-125 Finsbury Pavement, London,
E.G. 2.
*Jay, Miss G. de L., Aynho, Station Road, Naiisea, Bristol.
Jaye, William R., Beldornie Tower, Pelham Field, Ryde, LW.
*Jephson, Miss Ina, 9 Grove Hill Gardens, Tunbridge Wells.
Johnson, Miss F. C, 12 Mayiield Terrace, Edinburgh, 9.
*Johnson, James MacNeill, Aberdeen, North Carolina, U.S.A.
*Johnston, Dr William B.. Nixou House, Reno, Nevada, U.S.A.
^Johnston, Mrs W. B., Giverny, par Vernon, Eure, France.
*Jones, Professor B. Melvill, Engineering Laboratory, Cambridge.
*Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart, 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Jones, Lady, 39 Harrington Gardens, S.W. 7.
*Jones, Lawrence E., 59 Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1.
*Judah, Noble B.
*Kakucs, Baroness de. The Estate House, Heytesbury, Wilts.
Keeble, Lewis B., Highworth, Byng Road, Tunbridge Wells.
*Kennedy, Miss H. E., c/o Miss Parry, 48 Wathng Street, London,
E.G. 4.
*Ketner, Dr C. H., Den Helder, Holland.
*Khakhar, Dr H. M., Khakhar Buildings, CP. Tank Road, Bombay,
India.
*Kiernander, Mrs, Templars, Bishops Grove, London, N. 2.
*Kiralfy, G. A., M.B.E., 47 Lowndes Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Kirby, H. T., B.Sc, 21 Brittains Lane, Sevenoaks. Kent.
*Knight, A. H. J., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Knight, Charles N., 7 Marlborough Buildings, Bath.
Laing, R. M., " Ogilvie," 37 Macmillan Avenue, Christchurch, New
Zealand.
Lamb, Charles George, D.Sc, 65 GUsson Road, Cambridge.
^Lambert, G. W., 64 Onslow Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
^Lambert, Mrs Helen C, 12 East 88th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
*Lambert, Rudolf, Haigst 42, Degerloch bei Stuttgart, Germany.
Leaf, Mrs A. H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Miss E. M., Leafield, Augustus Road, London, S.W. 19.
*Leaf, F. A., West Acre, Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
*Le-Apsley, James H. M., M.D., 1340 Highview, Kaimuki Honolulu,
Hawaii.
160] Members and Associates 361
Lee, Blewett, 355 Peachtree Battle Avenue, N.W., Atlanta, Geoigia,
U.S.A.
*Lee, Dr H. D. C, 32 New North Road, Huddersfield, Yorks.
*Lee, Roger I., M.D., 264 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Lees, Norman D., A.I.C.
*Leggett, Douglas M. A., Dytchleys, Coxtie Green, Brentwood,
Essex.
*Lemon, Mrs, 8 Bryanston House, Dorset Street, London, W. 1.
*Lester, Mrs M. G., Keynes Place, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
*Lewis, David J., 328 Fayette Street, Cumberland, Maryland, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Adelaide, S. Australia.
*Librarian, Adyar Library, Adyar, Madras, S. India.
Librarian, Amsterdam Free Library, Amsterdam, N.Y., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Studievereeniging voor " Psychical Research," Univer.si-
teits-Bibhotheek, Amsterdam, Holland.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library, Baltimore, U.S.A.
^Librarian, Prussian State Library, Berlin, Germany.
Librarian, The City Public Libraries, Birmingham, 1.
^Librarian, The University, Birmingham, 3.
Librarian, Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute, Bombay, India.
Librarian, Boston Athenaeum, Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, PubHc Library, Brighton.
*Librarian, The University, Bristol.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Librarian, Grosvenor Library, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Harvard College Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Commonwealth Parliamentary Li!jra,ry, Canberra, F.C.T.,
Australia.
*Librarian, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Pubhc Library, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.H., U.S.A.
Librarian, Selskabet for Psykisk Forskning, Ny Vestergade 7, Copen-
hagen, Denmark.
*Librarian, Duke University, Durham, N. Carolini, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Iowa State Library, Des Moines, Iowa, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Glasgow Society for Psychical Research, 102 Bath Street,
Glasgow, C. 2.
Librarian, The University, Glasgow.
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Houston Pubhc Library, Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
*Librarian, The University, Leeds.
Librarian, Hon., Constitutional Club, London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, Dr Williams's Library, Gordon Square, Loudon, W.C. 1.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.C. 2.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 12 Gloucester Place, London, W. 1.
*Librarian, Public Library, Los Angeles, Cal, U.S.A.
*Librarian, John Rylands Library, Manchester.
362 Members and Associates [part
Librarian, Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, The University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Bavarian State Library, MunTcli, Germany.
*Librarian, King's College, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 2.
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, Public Library, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, Yale University, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Jersey City, New Jersey, U.S.A.
*Librarian, The New York Academy of Medicine, 2 East 103rd Street,
New York City, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, New York, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Pubhc Library, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Librarian, Norsk Selskap for Psykisk Forskniug, Parkveien 49, Oslo,
Norway.
Librarian, Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto, Cal., U.S.A.
Librarian, The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Public Library of Philadelphia, Middle City Station,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Natal Society, Pietermaritzburg, Natal, S. Africa.
*Librarian, The University of Iceland, Reykjavik, Iceland.
*Librarian, Pubhc Libraries, Rochdale, Lanes.
Librarian, Colgate-Rochester Divinity School, Ambrose Swasey
Library, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library Association, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
^Librarian, James Jerome Hill Reference Library, St. Paul, Minn.,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Pubhc Library of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
*Librarian, University of Ilhnois, Urbana, Illinois, U.S.A.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
*Littlewood, Professor J. E., Trinity College, Cambridge.
*Llewellin, Mrs W., Woolverton House, St Laurence, I.W.
*Lloyd, Miss Edyth M.
Lloyd, Miss Julia.
*Lloyd-Jones, Mrs, 104 Draycott Avenue, Kenton, Middlesex.
*Lodge, F. Brodie, Floore House, Floore, Northants.
*Lodge, Mrs F. Brodie, Floore House, Floore, Northants.
*Lodge, Sir Ohver, F.R.S., Normanton House, Lake, nr Salisbury.
Lubbock, Mrs Geoffrey, Glenconner, North Berwick.
Lyon, Mrs, 49 Holland Park, London, W. IL
*Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs Alfred, G.B.E., 18 Great College Street, London,
S.W. 1.
*Maby, J. Cecil, Bourton-on-the-Hill, nr Moreton-in-Marsh, Glos.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, London, W. 1.
*Mace, C. A., M.A., 12 Cavendish Road, London, N.W. 8.
*Machin, Mrs H. A. C, Kenora, Ontario, Canada.
160] Members and Associates 363
*MacIiit:yre, Donald, ?.Ioanalua, Honolulu, Hawaii.
Mackay, N. Douglas, M.D., Dall-Avon, Aberfeldy, Perth.
*Mackenzie, Mrs J. 0., 17 Great Cumberland Place, London, W. 1.
*MackesoD, Mrs Peyton, 1 Eldon Road, London, W. 8.
Macklin, Miss H. E., White Wood Corner, Sandy, Beds.
Madders, Mrs H. F., 87 Hampstead Way, London, N.W. 4.
*Magnus, Mrs Laurie, 34 Cambridge Square, London, W. 2.
*MagTane, Mrs Victor, 4 Grand Parade, Portsmouth.
*Mahony-Jones, Mrs, M.B., 6 Broadwater Down, Tunbridgc Wells.
*Mallet, E. Hugo, 14 St. James's Square, Bath.
*Malone, Dr Wilfred, 1 Alleyn Park, West Dulwich, London, S.E. 21.
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
Mansell, A. E., Bundella, Dromedary, nr Hobart, Tasmaiua.
Mantell, Colonel A. M., 5 St James's Square, Bath.
*Manuel, Alexander G., M.D., 110 AVilham Street, New York, U.S.A.
*Marsden-Smedley, Mrs, Lea Green, Matlock, Derbyshire.
*Marshall, Miss G. F., Enfield Lodge, Pluckley, Kent.
Marston, Sir Charles, 4 Camden Park, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
Marten, Miss A. E.., Osbornes, Liphook, Hants.
*Marten, Mrs Humphrey, 2 Carlton Hill, Exmouth, Devon.
*Mather, Rev. Herbert, Royal Automobile Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
^Matthews, Very Rev. W. R., Dean of St. Paul's, London, E.C. 4.
*Ma2welI, Sir John Stirhng, Bart., PoUok House, PoUokshaws.
Mayor, R. G., 36 Campden Hill Gardens, London, W. 8.
*McAlpine, Mrs R. J., 10 Trevor Square, London, S.W. 7.
McConnel, Mrs H. W., The New House, Beeding, Sussex.
*McDougall, Miss C. J., AppJeton-le-Moors, York.
McLauchlan, G. M., c/o Dr J. J. Dunne, Port Alfred, CP., S. Africa.
Meek, Maximihan de, 93 Kenilworth Avenue, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 19.
Meebold, Alfred, Heidenheim, Wm'temberg, Germany.
Mehrji, M. H., M.D., Yusuf Building, Esplanade Road, Fort, Bombay,
India.
*Mellor, Miss J. V., 26d Ladbroke Gardens, London, W. 11.
*Merritt, 0. K., Mt. Airy, North Carohna, U.S.A.
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
*Millar, H. B., 79 Dyke Road, Brighton.
*Millard, Mrs Almira B., 269 Canyon Crest Road, Altadena, California,
U.S.A.
*Miller, George B., Brentry, Romsey, Hants.
*Minns, Christopher, c/o Thos. Cook & Sons, Bankers, Piccadilly,
London, W. 1.
*Minns, Mrs C, c/o Thos. Cook & Sons, Bankers, Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
^Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Wayside, Fordcombe, nr. Tunbridge Wells.
*Montanaro. G. C. S., Lieut. R.E., Old Court Hotel, Bradford-on-Avon,
Wilts.
*Moore, A. M. A., F.R.C.S., 82 Portland Place, London. W. 1.
*Morris, Miss H. L., 6 Fore Hill, Ely, Canibs.
364 Members and Associates [PAET
*Mortimer, Mrs Stanley, 4 East 75th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Mosher, Mrs Howard T., 216 Alexander Street, Rochester, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
*Moss, C. A., 277 Hamlet Court Road, Westcli£E-on-Sea, Essex.
*Mounsey-Wood, Mrs, 16 Alexandra Road, Reading, Berks.
*Muir, Mrs W. E., Rowallan, Haslemere, Surrey.
*Muir Mackenzie, Miss Enid, 44 Acacia Road, London, N.W. 8.
*Mumford, Captain W. C, Sugwas Court, Hereford.
*Murer, Johan, Furulundsvei 7, Bestum, Oslo, Norway.
*Murphy, Professor Gardner, Ph.D., Columbia University, N.Y., U.S.A.
*Murray, Lady, Cleveland House, 19 St. James's Square, London,
S.W. 1.
Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., Litt.D., Yatscombe, Boars Hill,
Oxford.
*Myers, Harold H., Ovington House, Ovington Square, London, S.W. 3.
*Myers, L. H., 19 St. James's Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Narain, Narsingh, Barood Khana, Lucknow, U.P., India.
*Nash, Miss Diana, Point of Pines, Tryon, N. CaroHna, U.S.A.
*Naumburg, Miss Margaret, 66 Park Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Neustadter, Louis W., 6845 Odin Street, Hollywood, Cal., U.S.A.
Newton, Miss F. E.
*Nicholl, Iltyd B., The Bath Club, 34 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
*Nicol, J. Eraser, 6U George Square, Edinl)urgh, 8.
*Nicoll, Mrs De Lancey, Middlel)urg, Virginia, U.S.A.
*Nisbet, B. C, 42 Lebanon Court, Richmond Road, Twickenham.
*North, Sidney V., Ousedale House, Lewes, Sussex.
*Odell, A. B., 10 Knights Park, Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
*01dfie]d. Miss F., The Glen, Farnborough Park, Kent.
*Osborn, A. AV., Elizabeth Street P.O., Melbourne, Australia.
*Osborne, Miss H., 10 Empire House, London, S.W. 7.
*Osmaston, Dudley F., Lowfold, Wisborough Green, Sussex.
*Owen, A. S., Keblc College, Oxford.
*Palmstierna, Baron, 41 Chesil Court, London, S.W. 3.
'^Parapsychology Laboratorv, Duke LIniversity, Durham, N. Carolina,
U.S.A.
*Parkin, John, Blaithwaite, Carhsle.
Parsons, N. M., 65 Bedford Gardens, London, W. 8.
Paul, J. Rodman, 17 M^est Sunset Avenue, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
*Payne, Mrs, M.B., C.B.E., 143 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
*Payne, Miss P. D., 14 Lansdowne Road, London, S.W. 20.
*Peake, C. W., Warren Hill Cottage, Beachy Head Road, Meads,
Eastl)ourno.
Pease, Mrs J. R., 82 Queen's Gate, London, S.W. 7.
*Pennington, Mrs Henry, 279 Trinity Road, London, S.W. 12.
Percival, Philip E., Old Priory, Brightwell, nr WalHngford, Berks.
Perkins, Miss S. R., Holly Bank, Bracknell, Berks.
*Phillimore, Hon. Mrs, Radlett, Herts.
*PhilUmore, Miss M., 16 Queensberry Place, London, S.W. 7.
160] Members and Associates 365
Phillips, Mrs C. G., Kazamgula, P.O. Sinska Bridge, George, CP.,
S. Africa.
*Pickard, Mrs Fortescue, c/o Guaranty Trust Co. of N.Y., 50 Pall Mall,
London, S.W. 1.
*Piddington, J. G., Fishers Hill, Woking.
*Piercy, Major B. H., 94 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
*Pierson, Miss Jocelvn, c/o American S.P.R., 40 East 34th Street, New
_
York City, U.S.A.
Pigou, Professor Arthur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue, London, S.W. 18.
*Plimmer, Mrs R. H. A., 52 The Pryors, East Heath Road, London,
N.W. 3.
*Pocock, Miss F. N., 34 Gerard Road, Barnes, London, S.W. 13.
*Pollock, A. N., M.B., Ch.B., 4 Ventnor Villas, Hove 3, Sussex.
*Power, F. Danvers, 25 Woodside Avenue, Burwood, N.S.W., AustraUa.
Powles, Lewis Charles, Little Chff, Rye, Sussex.
*Preston, E. M., Slaugham Park, Haywards Heath, Sussex.
*Price, Harry, Arun Bank, Pulborough, Sussex.
*Price, Professor Henry Habberley, New College, Oxford.
Pym, Leshe R., Penpergwm Lodge, Abergavenny, Wales.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
*Rabb, A. L., 1350 Consolidated Building, Indianapolis, Ind., U.S.A.
*RadcUffe-Whitehead, Ralph.
*Radclyffe-Hall, Miss M., The Black Boy, Rye, Sussex.
^^Raikes, C. S. M., Northlands, 124 College Road, London, S.E. 19.
Ramsden, Miss, Marley House, Haslemere, Surrey.
*Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton, Devon.
*Rayleigh, Lord, Terhng Place, Chelmsford, Essex.
*Redmayne, Geoffrey, M.A., The Myrtles, Abbotts Laugley, Herts.
*Rees-Roberts, J. V., F.R.S., M.D., 90 Fitziohn's Avenue, London,
N.W. 3.
^Reeves, A. H., 84 Hillway, Highgate, Loudon, N. 6.
Rendall, Rev. Dr G. H., Dedham House, Dedham, Essex.
*Rendell, Francis G., 19 The Drive, Henleaze, Bristol.
*Reutiner, Miss A. H., Fountain Court, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
*Richards, Mrs, 61 Northgate Mansions, Regents Park, London.
N.W. 1.
^Richmond, Mrs Kenneth, 82 North End Road, London, N.W. 11.
*Rickman, John, M.D., 11 Kent Terrace, London, N.W. 1.
*Riddle, Mrs, Hillstead, Farmington, Conn., U.S.A.
*Ridley, Henry N., F.R.S., C.M.G., 7 Cumberland Road, Kew, Surrey.
*Ripon, Rt Rev. The Bishop of. The Palace, Ripon.
*Ritchie, A. J., Oriental Club, Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Riviere, Mrs Evelyn, 4 Stanhope Terrace, London, W. 2.
*Robson, Major J. S., Hales Place, Tenterden, Kent.
*Rogers, Miss Crystal, Hampton Court Palace, Middlesex.
*Rogers, George F., M.D.
*Roller, Mrs Huxley, 52 Circus Road Mansions, London, N.W. 8.
^Romanes, F. J., The Brick House, Diiton Hill, Dunmow, Essex.
366 Members and Associates [pari
*Ross, Robert, British Consulate General, 360 N. Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*Rothschild, Hon. Miriam L., 4 Palace Green, London, W. 8.
*Rothwell, Mrs, The Red Lodge, Crowthorne, Berks.
*R6thy, C, 1 Zuhatag-Gasse 5, Budapest, Hungary.
'•Rowntree, W. S., 15 Chatsworth Road, Brighton, Sussex.
'^Russell, Dr A. V., 4 Oaks Crescent, Wolverhampton.
*Ryan, Mrs.
*Ryley, Mrs Beresford, 37 Victoria Road, London, W. 8.
*St. Aubyn, Hon. Mrs., 61 Onslow Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Salter, F. R., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
*Salter, W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
*Salter, Mrs W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
'''Saltmarsh, H. F., Woodcote, Lynton, N. Devon.
*Saltmarsh, Mrs H. F. Woodcote, Lynton, N. Devon.
*Sassoon, Mrs Meyer, 6 Hamilton Place, London, W. 1.
Savill, Mrs, M.D., 7 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
*Scotland, Douglas C, L.R.C.P., Church Lane, Brighouse, Yorks.
Scott, Rev. D. D., C.F., The Manse, Khandallah, Wellington, New
Zealand.
Scott, Captain J. E., c/o Barclays Bank, 140 King's Road, London,
S.W. 3.
*Selborne, The Earl of, K.G., Blackmoor, Liss, Hants.
*Severn, Mrs E., c/o Bankers Trust Co., 2-5 East 57th Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
Shastri, B. G., Kala Mehta's Street, Sagrampura, Surat, India.
*Shaw, Mrs Bernard, 4 Whitehall Court, London, S.W. 1.
*Shearer, F. Myers, Blackwood, South Australia.
*Siepmann, Mrs, 4 Wells Road, Regent's Park, London, N.W. 8.
Simpson, Miss E. C. Price, Beech Barns, Alton, Hants.
*Sinclair, Miss May.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpur, Punjab, India.
*Sitwell, Mrs, 167 Victoria Street, London, S.W. 1.
Smith, G. Albert, Rosedene, 7 Melville Road, Hove, Sussex.
*Smith, Harrison Bowne, Jr., 812 Kanawha Banking & Trust Co.,
Charleston, W. Va., U.S.A.
*Smith, Marion, 80-llth Street, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.
Smith, Rev. William J.
*Soa], S. G., Scratton Lodge, Priory Crescent, Prittlewell, Essex.
Soley, Mrs, 66 Holbein House, Sloane Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Sorabii, K. S., 175 Clarence Gate Gardens, London, N.W. 1.
Southern, H., 3 Crescent Road, Beckenham, Kent.
'''Sowrey, Group Captain J., R.A.F., Betchworth Lodge, Betchworth,
Surrey.
*Spender, J. A., Well Hill House, Chclsfield, Farnborough, Kent.
Spens, WilUam, Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
*Spranger, John A., 4 Via MicheH, Florence, Italy.
*Stansfield, C. E., 70 Northcourt Avenue, Reading, Berks.
*Steane, G. A., 5 Queen Victoria Road, Coventry.
160] Members and Associates 367
Stephens, W. F., Mahe, Seychelles, Indian Ocean.
*Sternng, Miss F. M., Home Wood, Hartfield, Sussex.
*Stevens, Rev. W. H., Eastville, Haslingden, Lanes.
Stevenson, Mrs A. F., 72 Heath Street West, Toronto, Canada.
*Stewart, Miss Meum, The Crump, Berden, Bishops Stortford.
Stoehr, Miss, Alexandra Club, Cape Town, S. Africa.
*Strachey, Mrs J. St Loe, 39 St. Leonard's Terrace, London, S.W. 3.
*Strange, T. A., Crossways, Rodborough, Stroud, Glos.
*Stratton, Professor F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
*Strawson, A. H., 27 Norfolk Road, London, N.W. 8.
*Strutt, Vice-Admiral the Hon. A. C!., R.N., 1 Cambridge Square,
London, W. 2.
*Strutt, Hon. Mrs A. C, 1 Cambridge Square, London, W. 2.
*Strutt, Hon. Charles R., Terhng Place, Chelmsford, Essex.
*Strutt, Hon. John A., 18 Hyde Park Square, London, W. 2.
Stubbs, Peter, Station Road, Wigton, Cumberland.
*Sturt, H. H,, c/o Asiatic Petroleum Co., Singapore, Straits Settle-
ments.
Swainson, Miss F. J.
Swinburne, Mrs, 22 Queen's Gate Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Taylor, Captain H. B., R.N., 36 Morpeth Mansions, London,
S.W. L
*Tennant, Mrs B. V., Hams Plot, Beaminster, Dorset.
*Thaw, A. Blair, 3255 N. Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Thibodeau, William A., 245 Park Square Building, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Thomas, Rev. C. D., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
*Thomas, Mrs Gale, 3 Morland Close, Hampstead Way, London,
N.W. IL
*Thomas, John F., Ph.D., 18295 Oak Drive, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
*Thompson, Dr R. B., Fellside, Brixham, S. Devon.
*Thorburn, John M., University College, Cathays Park, Cardiff.
Thornley, Miss F. J., The Pantiles, Brean Down Avenue, Weston-suijer-
Mare.
Thornton, Mrs, 5 Belgrave Place, Edinburgh.
"Thornton, Mrs Lewis, Hotel Beacon, Broadway and 75th Street, New
York City, U.S.A.
*Thurlow, The Lady, Sedgefield Rectory, Stockton-on-Tees.
*Thurn and Taxis, H.I.H. The Prince Alexander of, Loucen, Nimburg,
Czecho-Slovakia.
Tinnevelly, Rt. Rev. The Lord Bishop of, Bishopstowe, Palamcottah,
S. India.
Tipping, Miss K., 7 Lansdowne Circus, Leamington.
Tottenham, Miss Mary T. A., Ballycurry, Ashford, Co. Wicklow,
I.F.S.
*Traprain, The Viscountess, Whittingehame House, Whittingehame,
Haddington.
*Trethewy, A. W., Artillery Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Troubridge, Una, Lady, The Black Boy, Rye, Sussex.
368 Members and Associates [PAUT
*Tuckey, Mj's V. ]jloyd, 41 Carlisle Road, Eastbourne.
Tuson, Major K. H., R.B., c/o Lloyds Bank, Terminus Road, East-
bourne.
*TyrreU, G. N. M., 32c Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Unwin, Mrs, The Fn-kiu, Redliill, Surrey.
*Vandy, G. E., 94 Essex Road, London, E. 12.
*Van Deren, H. S., Hume Fogg Building, Nashville, Tenn., U.S.A.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 298 Heemraad-Singel, Rotterdam,
Holland.
*Varvill, Bernard, M.R.C.S., 92 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
*Vatclier, Mrs, 38 Stafford Court, London, W. 8.
*Vauglian, E. L., 8 Arlington Road, Eastbourne.
*Vivante, Professor Leone, Cherry Cottage, Abinger Common, Surrey.
Vyvyan, Mrs T. C, Poldhu, Richmond, Natal, South Africa.
*AVales, Hubert, Homewood Heath, Hindhead, Surrey.
Walker, Miss May C, c/o National Provincial Bank, Piccadilly,
London, W. 1.
*Walker, Miss Nea, Clemcroft, Soudley, Church Stretton.
Wanderley, F. M., Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil.
Wang, C. Y., 144 Prince Edward Road, Kowloon, Hongkong.
*Warner, Hon. Mrs W. W., 52 Hans Place, London, S.W. 1.
*Warrick, F. W., 6 Raymond Buildings, London, W.C. 1.
*Watkins, Miss K. E., 53 All Souls' Avenue, London, N.W. 10.
*Watts, Mrs James, Branton, Bollin Hill, Wilmslow, Manchester.
*Wedd, Nathaniel, M.A., Kings College, Cambridge.
*Wellesley, Sir Victor A. A. H., C.B., 12 Ranelagh Grove, London,
S.W.I.
*Welsford, Miss Enid E. H., Kennet End, Harrow Park, Harrow-on-
the-Hill.
*West, M., Cornerways, Baughurst, nr Basingstoke, Hants.
Whitaker, Mrs Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
*Whitehead, Miss Mercia D.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Malhng, Maidstone, Kent.
Wilkins, Mrs, 13 Buckleigh Road, Streatham, London, S.W. 16.
Wilkins, C. F., 102 Haven Green Court, Eahng, London, W. 5.
*Wilkins, Rev. H. J., D.D., Redland Green, Bristol, Glos.
*Williamson, Miss Elizabeth M., c/o Glyn, Mills & Co., Holts Branch,
Kirkland House, Whitehall, London, S.W. 1.
*Williamson, Lamar, Monticello, Arkansas, U.S.A.
*Willock, Mrs C. J., Lampool, nr Uckfield, Sussex.
*Wilson, Mrs C. Stuart, Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Wilson, Percy, Penshurst, 3 Sheridan Road, London, S.W. 19.
*Wilson, S. R. W., Two Fields, Whelpley Hill, Chesham, Bucks.
*Wilson-Wright, L. A., Meer Hill, Loxley, Warwick.
*Winchilsea and Nottingham, Edith Countess of. Dower House,
Ewerby, Sleaford, Lines.
*Winterstein, Dr Baron Alfred von, Wattmanngasse 38, Vienna xiii,
Austria.
*Wisdom, John, 16 Clarendon Road, Oxford.
160] Members and Associates 369
. *Wodeliouse, Miss Helen M., Girton College, Cambridge.
I *Wood ,
Christoi^her, 8766 Arlene Terrace, Laurel Canyon, Hollywood,
Calif., U.S.A.
*Wood, Mrs St. Osyth, Parsonage Hall, Bures, Suffolk.
*Wood, T. Eugene, Eedcliffe, 14 Chine Crescent Road, Bournemouth.
Woodhull, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, nr Tewkes-
bury, Glos.
Woods, Miss C. E., Graythorpe, Kingswood, Surrey.
*Woolfers, A., 29 Puriri Avenue, One Tree Hill," Auckland, S.E. 4,
New Zealand.
t *Woollard, Mrs Charles, 21 North Hill, Highgate, London, N. 6.
Woollett, Lieut.-Colonel W. C, Grand Hotel, Gibraltar.
*Woolley, Mrs Cornell, 950 Park Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
*Worsfold, Mrs Basil, 3 Plowden Buildings, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
*Worcester, Dr Elwood, 186 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Wrangham, W. H., 78 Barmouth Road, London, S.W. 18.
==Wright, Dr A. F.
*Wright, Maurice B., M.D., 86 Brook Street, London, W. 1.
*Yardley, R. B., 3 Paper Buildings, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
*Young, Miss A. L. G., 81 St. Edmunds Drive, Stanmore, Middlesex.
* Young, Anthony J., 44 Leamington Terrace, Edinburgh.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, Currant Hill, Westerham, Kent.
*Zeigler, Major C. H., Springfield, Breinton, Hereford.
*Zorab, George, Verdistraat 32, The Hague, Holland.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. 45.
For the sake of brevity such qualifications as " supposed ",
" alleged ", etc., are generally omitted from this index. It must,
however, be understood that this omission is solely for the sake of
brevity, and does not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of
any entry is in fact real or genuine.
Abbott, Mrs (medium), 300.
" Abdul Latif control of Mrs Eileen
Garrett, 47, 58, 61-62, 6.5-66, 67.
Adventures in Psychical Research,
reviewed, 217.
Airship R 101, Mrs Garrett's trance
utterance concerning, 44.
AlUson, Mrs, 103, 105, 114, 11!).
Alrutz, Dr Sidney, 178.
Ajjports, violets produced as, 107.
Aristotelian Society and Mind Associa-
tion : Symposia, Knowledge and
Foreknowledge, reviewed, 97.
Automatic Writing, 134-135.
Baggally, W. W., 7.
Baldwin, Miss M., 70.
Balfour, Lord, 25, 29, 40, 128, 139,
187.
the late, 137. 139.
Barrett, Sir Wilham, 19, 138, 177.
" Beauchamp ", Miss, case of, 181.
Benson, E. W. (later Ai'chbishop),
132, 134.
Besterman, Theodore, 105, 108, 133.
Blavatsky, Mme., 140.
Blood counts, 48 fF. ;
unimportance
of apparently impressive numbers,
49, 52, 54-55.
Bould, A. J., and H. G., 70-71.
Bourne, Ansel, case of, 181.
Bourne, Dr Geoffrey. 46, 49, 50,
53-54, 64, 67-68.
Bozzano, Signor Ernest, 324 and ftn.
Braid, James, 176.
Breuer, Dr Josef, 180, 344.
" Bricks ", Leonard impression con-
cerning, 110.
Brittain, Mrs (medium), 259, 300-306.
Broad, Prof. C. D., 97, 129 ;
" Henry
Sidgwick and Psychical Re-
search 131 ;
224, 314.
Brown, Dr William, 43, 182, 219.
Burt, Dr Cyril, 89.
Carington, W. Whately, 128 ;
" The
Quantitative Study of Trance Per-
sonalities. New Series, I ", 223.
Carrington, Hereward, 7, 44.
Case for Telepathy, The, reviewed,
88.
" Case of Purjjorted Spirit-Com-
munication Due Actually to Sub-
Conscious or Trance Memory
Powers, A ", 210.
Census of Hallucinations, the Socie-
ty's, 143-145.
Charcot, Dr, 344.
Clairvoyance : tests Avith Mrs Eileen
Garrett, 69 If. ; 88 ; investigation
372 Index to Vol. XLV [part
of, in Mrs Helen Hughes, 199-216 ;
Yoga methods as inducing, 310 ;
auto-hypnosis and, 313 : eviden-
tial position of, 314 ; 315.
" Contributions of Psychical Research
to Psychotherapeutics, The ", 175.
Coover, Dr J. E., 89-90.
Crawford, Dr W. J., 8-12, 18.
Crookes, Sir William, Researches on
the Phenomena of S-pirifualism.,
cited, 5 ; 136.
Davis, Miss, evidence of in Leonard
case, 114.
Descartes, 318.
Dessoir, Prof., and Mme., 109.
Dingwall, Dr E. J., 105, 107.
Dodds, Prof. E. R., 258 ff. (Macaulay-
Lewis proxy experiment) ; note on
the experiment, 294-296.
" Dora " (commmiicator), 105 ff.
Dreams and Telepathy (Freud), cited,
345.
" Dressmg up ", Leonard impression
concerning, 115-110.
Dressmaking, Miss Nev/ton's, Leon-
ard allusions to, 125 ;
psychologi-
cal significance, 125-126.
Drugs, possible use of to induce
supernormal phenomena, 309.
Duke LTnivcrsity, psychical research
instituted at, 193.
Dukes, Dr Cuthbert, 46, 49, 51-53,
54-55, 56, 63.
Duncan, ]\Ii's (medium), 217 S.
Dunraven, Lord, and D. D. Home,
4.
" Dutch ", something, Leonard im-
pression concerning, 118-119.
Ectoplasm, 16, 218-219.
Electro-cardiograf)hic tests, with Mrs
EUeen Garrett, 48, 50, 04-65
Elliotson, and hypnosis, 177
Elliott, Miss Rita, 71.
Esdaile, and anaesthesia under hyp-
nosis, 177.
Eva C. (medium), 217.
Extra-sensory perception, and Mrs
Eileen Garrett, 45 ff. ; not induced
by hypnosis in Mr Seal's experi-
ments, 72 ; Prof. Wright on
Rhhie's work, 88, 128 ;
Glasgow
repetition of Rhine's experiments,
252-256 ; human tendency to
regard normal chance deviations
as significant, 256.
" Fanny ", Leonard impression con-
cerning, 115.
Fasting, as productive of psychical
experience, 309-310.
" Feda ", control of Mrs Leonard,
104 S., 259 S.
Feilding, Everard, 7.
Ferenczi, Dr, 183.
" Finance ", Leonard imj^ression con-
cerning, 112.
" Fireplace ", Leonard impression
concerning, 124.
Fischer, Doris, case of, 181.
Fisher, Prof., 224.
Fodor, Dr Nandor, 49.
Fournier d'Albe, Dr E. E., 10-12.
Freud, Prof. Sigmund, 180, 183, 185,
194 ;
obituary of, 344 ; Mose^ and
Monotheism', reviewed, 347.
" Games of chance ", Leonard im-
pression concerning, 123-124.
Garrett, Mrs Eileen, Report on Ex-
periments with, 43-87 ; tentative
character of American experi-
mental data, 49-50 ; 223 ff.
Ciatty, Oliver, 224.
Gestalt Psj'chology, 101.
Ghost-stories, Prof. Sidgwick on, 141.
" Glass ", piece of, Leonard impres-
sion concerning, 116-117.
Globe hghtning, as example of a
phenomenon not to be commanded
at will, 7.
Goldney, Mrs K. M., " Report on a
Series of Experiments with Mrs
Eileen Garrett ", Part I, 43 ; 70,
86-87, 202, 209; "A Case of
Purported Spirit-Communication
Due Actually to Sub-Conscious or
Trance Memory Powers ", 210.
GoUgher, Miss Kathleen (medium). 8.
" Greek " MS., refeiTed to by Feda,
107-108.
Gurnev, Edmund, 137, 139, 143,
177 ff.
Hall, Prof. Stanley, 345.
Hallucination, collective, 135-136.
Hatfield, Dr W. H., 20.
160] Index to Vol. XLV 373
Haunting, position of evidence for,
314 ;
may involve external per-
sistence of mental images, 318 ff. ;
" psychometrical " theory of, 324 ;
self-haunting, 342.
" Haunting and the '
Psj'chic Ether
'
Hypothesis ; with Some Prelimi-
nary Reflections on the Present
Condition and Possible Future of
Psychical Research ", 307.
Heckle, H. J., 71.
" Henry SidgTvick and Psychical
Research ", 131.
Herbert, C. V. C, 108, 110, 112;
" Short Exposure Photographs of
a Jumping Model ", 196 : "A
Preliminary Investigation of the
Platform Clairvoyante Mrs Helen
Hughes ", 199.
HincMijfe, The Return of. cited, 44.
Hodgson, Dr Richard, 7, 140, 148,
165, 181, 21.5.
Home, D. D., deficient observation
of liis physical phenomena, 4 ; 5, 6.
Hope, Lord Charles, 209.
Horsell, Miss E. M., evidence of in
Leonard cases, 106, 110, 112, 123.
Hughes, Mrs Helen (platform clair-
voyante), 199-216.
Hyperaesthesia, visual, cjucstioii of
evidence for, 20, 22-24 ; auditory,
as a supposition, 145.
Hypnosis, fails to induce E. S. P. ui
experiments by Mr Soal, 72 ; and
thought-transference, 145 ;
early
discoveries concerning, 176 ; study
of, by S.P.R., 177 ff. ; hypothesis
of physical effluence in, 178 ; in
Freud's early practice, 344.
Hyslop, Prof. J. H., 181 ; as com-
municator, 105, 119.
Hvsteria, F. W. H. Myers's concep-
tion of, 179.
Images, mental, possible external
persistence of, 318 fF. ; as dynamic
entities, 319-320.
Image-thinking, to be cultivated in
the interests of supernormal cogni-
tion, 312.
Infra-red ray, interception of in
Schneider phenomena, 12-16 ; im-
portance of the evidence for this
phenomenon, 14.
International Institute for Psychical
Research, 45, 46.
Irving, the Rev. W. S., 103, 104, 105,
117, 120.
James, Prof William. 147.
Janet, Dr Pierre, 179.
Joad, Dr C. E. M., 76 ; Adventures in
Psychical Research, reviewed, 217.
Johnson, Miss Alice, 133, 144, 146,
178.
Johnstone, Mrs M., 71.
Kellogg, Prof. Chester E., Neiv Evi-
dence (?) for ''Extra-sensory Per-
ception ", reviewed, 88.
Kelvin, Lord, 9.
' Keys ", Leonard impression con-
cernmg, 111.
Knowledge and Foreknon-Jedge, re-
viewed, 97.
Lankester, Prof. Ray, 138.
Leaves from a Psychisfs Case-Book,
cited, 44.
Leonard, Mrs Osborne : phenomena
studied by Miss Isabel Newton,
103-126 ; 128, 223 ff. ; proxy-
sitting phenomena, 257-306.
Levitation, 5, 8-12 ; effect resembl-
ing, in photographs of a jumping
model, 196-198.
Lewis, Prof and Mrs (Macaulay-
Lewis proxy experiment), 258 ff.
Light, statement on physiological
changes in trance, 47-48.
Lightnmg, early mythical explana-
tion of, 6 ; globe, 7.
" Lighthouse, The ", 34.
Lights supposed to have been ob-
served near the poles of a magnet,
19-24.
Lindsay, The Master of, and D. D.
Home, 5.
Listener, The, 48.
Lodge, Sir OUver, 7, 211, 215.
London Spiritualist Alliance, 202-203,
206-207, 209, 210-212.
Lyttelton, the Hon. Mrs Alfred, 40.
Macaulay-Lewis proxy experiment,
258-296.
McDougall, Prof., 98, 185 ;
obituary
of, 191.
374 Index to Vol. XL^ [part
Mace, C. A., 317, 318.
Marshall, A. J., 70.
Materialisations, Crookes and Pod-
more on, 5.
Mazzini, 135-136.
Mesmer, 175-176.
Mind Association, The, and The
Aristotelian Society : Symposia,
Kjiowledge and Forehiowledge, re-
viewed, 97.
Mitchell, Dr T. W., " The Contribu-
tions of Psychical Research to
Psychotherapeutics 175 ; obitu-
ary of Prof. Freud, 344 ; review
by, 347.
Moses, Stainton, 138.
Mrs Henry Sidgwick. A Memoir,
reviewed, 187.
Myers, Dr C. S., 182.
Myers, F. W. H., 134, 136, 139, 141,
144, 147. 165, 177 E. ; value of his
conception of hysteria, 179 : 313,
317.
" Nails Leonard impression con-
cerning, 119-120.
Nairne, the Rev. Dr Alexander, 32-34.
National Laboratory of Psychical
Research, 217 ff.
Naumberg, Mrs, 72.
Necklace, Miss Newton's, apparent
Leonard allusion to, 118.
New Evidence {'') for ''Extra-sensory
Perception ", reviewed, 88.
Newton, Miss Isabel, " A Study of
Certain Leonard Phenomena ", 103.
Nunan, Dr William, 46, 49, 53.
Qsty, MM. Eugene and Marcel, and
Rudi Schneider, 12-16, 18.
Palladino, Eusapia, 7, 15, 147,
164-165.
" Papers Leonard impression con-
cerning, 122.
Pearce, Hubert, and E.S.P. experi-
ments with Dr Pratt, 93-96.
Personality, double and multiijle, in
relation to trance-personalities,
181-182.
Phantasms of the Living, 141.
Phillimore, Miss Mercy, 204, 209.
Photographs, short-exposure, of a
jumping model, 196.
Physiological changes in trance,
alleged, 43-68.
Piddington, J. C4., 27, 40, 42.
Piper, Mrs, 128, 147, 181, 215.
" Plants ", beaten down, Leonard
impression concerning, 119-120.
Podmore, Frank, Modern Spiritual-
ism and The Newer Spiritualism,
cited, 4, 5 ; on Eusapia Palladino,
7 ; and the Census of Hallucina-
tions, 144 ; 177.
Pratt, Dr J. G., 44, 74, 84 ; E.S.P.
experiments with Mr Pearce, 93-96.
Precognition, 97-99 ; and causation,
99 ; viewed by some as a self-
contradictory concept, 314.
Presidential Addresses : Lord Ray-
leigh, " The Problem of Physical
Phenomena in Connection with
Psychical Research ", 1 ; Prof.
H. H. Price, " Haunting and the
'
Psychic Ether '
Hypothesis ; with
Some Preliminary Reflections on
the Present Condition and Possible
Future of Psychical Research
307.
Price, Harry, 43, 44, 217 £F.
Price, Prof.'H. H., 97-99 ; Presiden-
tial Address, 307.
Pruice, Dr Morton, 181.
Prince, Dr W. F., 18, 181.
" Print dress Leonard impression
concerning, 116.
Proxy sittings, with Mrs Eileen
Garrett, 45 ; "A Proxy Experi-
ment of Significant Success ", 257.
Psych ic Science, statement on physio-
logical changes in trance, 47.
Psychological Laboratory, Univer-
sity College, 70.
Psychology down the Ages, reviewed,
100.
" Psychometrical " theory of haunt-
ing, 324 ff.
" Quantitative Study of Trance
Personalities, The. New Series,
I ", 223.
" Question of Lights Supposed to
have been Observed near the Poles
of a Magnet, The ", 19-24.
Rayleigh, The Lord, Presidential
Address, 1 ;
" The Question of
160] Index to Vol. XLV 375
Lights Supposed to have been
Observed near the Poles of a Mag-
net ," 19 ;
" Some Recollections of
Henry Sidg^vick," 162.
Rayleigh, Lord, the late, 137, 139.
Reflexes, in experiments with Mrs
Eileen Garrett, 53-54, 56-60, 64-66.
Reichenbach Phenomena, 19 and ftn.
Repetition at will of psychical and
other phenomena, 7, 151, 308.
" Repetition of Dr J. B. Rhine's
Work with Mrs Eileen Garrett,
A ", 69.
" Report on a Series of Experiments
with Mrs Eileen Garrett ",43.
" Report on Glasgow Repetition of
Dr Rhine's Experiments on Extra-
Sensory Perception ", 252.
Rhine, Prof. J. B., 44 ;
repetition hy
Mr Soal of his work with Mrs
Eileen Garrett, 69-87 ; Prof.
Wright and Prof. Kellogg on his
results, reviewed by Mi- Soal, 88 ;
imperfectly random distribution
of Zener cards : relative unim-
portance of this, 91-93 (see also
255); 128,193: Glasgow repetition
of his E.S.P. experiments, 252-256.
Richard, Mrs Henry, 70.
Richet, Prof., 144.
Richmond, Kenneth, obituary of
Dr McDougall, 191.
Rivers, Dr W. H. R., 182.
Robertson, D. S., and Miss J., 197.
" Roofs "',
Leonard impression con-
cerning, 123.
Russell, Bertrand, 331.
Russell, D. G., 70.
Ryecardt, Mr, 72.
Salter, Mrs W. H., " A Sermon in St.
Paul's ", 25 ;
" The Lighthouse "',
34; 105 ; review by, 187.
Salter, W. H., 108 ; reviews by. 127,
133, 217.
Saltmarsh, H. P., review by, 97.
Samuels, Miss, 104.
Sanderson, Miss, 106.
Schneider, Rudi, 12-15, 217 fif.
Science, and Psychical Phenomena,
reviewed, 127.
" Searchers ", the (S.P.R. workers
alluded to by Feda), 104 ff.
" Sermon in St. Paul's, A ", 25-42.
SharpHn, Mrs (medium), 223 ff.
" Short Exposure Photographs of a
Jumping Model ", 196.
Siderapoula, Miss, 71.
Sidgwick, Ethel, Mrs Henry Sidg-
wick. A Memoir, reviewed, 187.
SidgA\'ick, Henrj', and Psychical Re-
search (Prof. Broad), 131 ; Some
Recollections of (Lord Rayleigh),
162 ; principal works of, 133-134.
Sidgwick, Mrs, and the investigation
of phj'sical phenomena, 7, 8 ;
photograph of as point of evidence,
109; 132 ff., 181; memoir of, re-
viewed, 187.
Slade, Dr (medium), 137.
Soal, S. G., " Report on a Series of
Exj)eriments with Mrs EUeen
Garrett ", Part II, 69 ; reviews on
E.S.P., 88.
Society for Psychical Research, in-
ception of, 136 ff. ; its study of
Blavatsky phenomena, 140 ; its
Census of Hallucinations, 143 ;
Prof. Sidgwick on the functions of,
149 ff. ; study of hypnosis, 180 ;
Medical Section, 182.
" Some Recollections of Henry Sidg-
Avick ", 162.
Spearman, Prof. C, Psychology down
the Ages, reviewed, 100.
Spirit-Communication, a Case of
Purported, 210.
Statius, 25.
Stephens, Miss J., 70.
Stevens, Dr W. L., 224, 255.
" Strips " of material, Leonard im-
pression concerning, 117.
" Study of Certain Leonard Pheno-
mena, A ", 103.
Survival, 129-130; Prof. Sidgwick
on, 142, 160-161 ; Mrs Sidgwick
on, 187 ; estabhshed phenomena
lessen the antecedent improbability
of, 314, 328 ; survival of images,
327.
" Tablecloth ", Leonard impression
concerning, 115.
Tanner, Mr Mills (apport medium),
107.
Telekmesis, 12.
Telepathy : tests with Mrs Eileen
Garrett 69 ff. ; 88 ; evidence of.
376 Index to Vol. XLV [part 160]
in Leonard phenomena, 103 ; Prof.
Sidgwick on, 142, 145 ; as one horn
of dilemma (McDougall) 192,
(Dodds) 294-295 ; Yoga methods
as inducing, 310 ; evidential posi-
tion of, 314 ; 315 ; Freud on, 345.
" Tennis ", Leonard impression con-
cerning, 118-119.
Thomas, the Rev. C. Drayton, 225 £f.;
" A Proxy Experiment of Sig-
nificant Success ", 257.
Thouless, Prof, 89; review by, 100;
178, 224 ;
" Report on Glasgow
Repetition of Dr Rhine's Experi-
ments on Extra-Sensory Percep-
tion ", 252.
Tolhurst, Mr and Mrs, evidence of
in Leonard cases, 109-110.
" Trace " theory of memory, 98.
Traeger, Dr, 49-50.
Tyrrell, G. N. M., 74, 84, 91 ; Science
and Psychical Phenomena, re-
viewed, 127, 194.
" Uvani ", control of Mrs Eileen
Garrett, 47, 57, 61, 64-66, 76.
Van Loon, Dr, 178.
Verbal thinking as obstacle to super-
normal cognition, 311.
Verrall, Mrs, 27-29, 34-39.
Verrall, Prof. A. W., 25.
" Vines ", Leonard impression con-
cerning, 113-114.
" Violets ", Leonard impression con-
cerning, 107, 120-121.
Wales, Hubert, 104.
V\^allace, Alfred Russell, 136.
Wallace, Miss, 106.
Whispering, involuntary, tests con-
cerning, 145-147.
Waiett, Mrs, 25, 29, 128, 314.
Wilson, Mi-s Stuart, 30-34.
Woolley, Dr V. J., 46, 49, 51, 53.
Word-reaction times : simjjlified cal-
culation of results, 230 ;
significant
negative correlations and their
interpretation, 235 S.
Wright, Dr Helena, 46, 49, 56, 64, 67,
68.
Wright, Prof Ernest Hunter, The
Case for Telepathy, reviewed, 88.
Yoga methods as inducing super-
normal faculty, 310-311, 313 ; as
inducing regression to primordial
mental states, 349.
Ziigun, Eleanorc (medium), 217, 221.
2435--^
I'RINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BV KOUERT MACLEIIOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
