{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V46 1940-41","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v46_1940-41.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V46 1940-41","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XLVI
(CONTAINING PARTS 161-165)
1940-1941
\The respomihility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
I
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
\
'/' '•
'
0 -V •
• .* V, ''/ >'
V/
’
'’
0:
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
61 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
Agents for America: THE F. W. FAXON CO.,
§3 Francis Street, Boston, Mass,
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEIIOSE AND CO. l.TD,
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
CONTENTS
PART 161.
Psychical Research and Theology. By- W. R. Matthe-ws, D.D.,
Dean of St. Paul’s
Obituary. Alice Johnson
Perrott Studentship in Psychical Research . . . .
PART 162.
Introduction to Mr Whately Carinqton’s and Mr Soal’s Papers.
By Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D.
Experiments on the Paranormal Cognition of Drawings. By
W. Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc.
Fresh Light on Card Guessing—Some New Effects. By S. G. Soal
Reviews :
f
Charlotte Bacon, Infinite Traveller
H. G. Baynes, Mythology of the Soul . ... .
TUARY : Mr Oliver Gatty'
C) PART 163.
Obituary :
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
Sm J. J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S.
PsYCHOPATHOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF TELEPATHY. By HaNS EhREN-
WALD, M.D.
The Isolation of the Percipient in Tests for Extra-Sensory
Perception. By Geoffrey Redmayne . . . .
On the Interpretation of the Data of Certain Experiments in
Paranormal Cognition. By W. L. Stevens
Reply to Mr Stevens’s Criticism. By W. Whately Carington.
Review : J. B. Rhine and Others, Extra-Sensory Perception
after Sixty Years
PAGE
1
16
23
25
34
152
199
201
206
209
209
224
245
256
261
265
•L'iIGGO
IV Contents
PART 1.64.
PAGl
Obituary. Henri Bergson
Experiments in the Paranormal Cognition of Drawings. By
W. Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc.
A. Experiment VI : Open versus Closed Originals - - 277
B. Experiment VII : First Inter-University Experiment - 290
C. Ten-Grade Scoring of Experiments I to V - - - 309
D. Sex, etc., Differences in Paracognitive Ability - - 333
E. Two Refinements of Technique 340
PART 165
1
Ambiguity in the Question of Survival. By H. F. Saltmarsh 345 k
Is Proof of Survival Possible? By B. Abdy Collins - - 361
^
Jung’s Conception of the Structure of Personality in Relation j
lira
TO Psychical Re.search. By H. G. Haynes, M.D. - - 377' ks
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. 46.
I’or tl*® sake of brevity such qualifications as “ supposed ”,
“ alleged ”, etc., are generally omitted from this index. It must,
however, be understood that this omission is solely for the sake of
brevity, and does not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of
any entry is in fact real or genuine.
llo
«1
.\ldred, J., 183-185.
/I Assessment: of “ restricted ” and of
“ free ” types of material, 38-40,
63; Stevens’s tests, 84, 149-150; of
“ feeble thought-reading powers ”,
early suggested by Richet, 210
interpretation of data, 256-264
history of quantitative method,
265-266.
Automatism, 17.
B.B.C., Sir O. Lodge’s last broadcast,
216-217.
Bacon, Charlotte, Infinite Traveller,
reviewed, 199.
Balfour, Lord, contribution to Obit-
uary of Sir 0. Lodge, 217-218.
Banister, Dr, 51.
Bartlett, Prof., 51.
Baynes, Dr H. G., Mythology of the
Soul, reviewed, 201 ; 377-388.
Bergson, Henri, Obituary of, 271-276.
Bozzano, Prof., 368, 370-371.
Broad, Prof. C. D., 25-33, 42, 60, 89,
112, 150-151, 285, 357, 375.
Brown, Dr Wilham, on a case of tele-
pathy during psychological treat-
ment, 239.
Burt, Prof., 154, 157.
Cambridge Committee, 25, 42 ;
Cam-
bridge Psychological Laboratory,
experiment at, 51-55 ; Cambridge
S.P.R., 57.
Carington, Mi's W. W., 44 If.
Carington, W. Whately, 34-151, 152-
153, 256-264 ;
review by, 265-270 ;
277-340.
Chaffin Will Case, 367.
Clairvoyance, Mr Redmayne's appar-
atus for testing, 245-255.
CoUins, B. Abdy, 361-376.
Collins, H. S., 154, 164.
CoUins, Dr Mary, 88.
Compensation, psychological, a factor
in the emergence of paranormal
faculty, 226 £f.
Craik, J. C. W., 51 ff.
Crane, Mrs, 183-184.
Crawford, Dr W. J., 363-364.
Cross-correspondences, 213.
Deathbed Visions, 369.
Deutsch, Helen, on “ Occult Mani-
festations Durmg Psycho-analysis”,
237-238.
DingwaU, Dr E. J., 42, 112-113, 141,
280.
Displacement effect in Paranormal
Cognition, 54-55, 100-111, 152 ff.
Dodds, Prof. E. R., 345, 346.
Duke University experimental group,
57, 61-62.
390 Index to Vol. XLVI [PAEl
Dutch S.P.K., 57 ;
Dutch Spiritual-
ists, 58.
Dwyer, Mrs, 184.
Ehrenwald, Dr Hans, 224-244.
Elliott, Miss Rita, 154.
“ Ether of Images ”, Prof. Price’s
conception of, 13-14.
Extra-Sensory Perception (see Tele-
pathy, etc., also Paranormal Cog-
nition) ;
apparatus for testing,
245 ff. ; estimation of, see Assess-
ment.
Extra-Sensory Perception after Sixty
years, reviewed, 265-270.
Elugel, Prof., 154, 157.
Freud, Dr Sigmund, 201 ff. ;
on two
observations of paranormal pheno-
mena, 236-237, 381.
Garrett, Mrs Eileen, 154, 158, 161.
Gatty, Mrs Oliver, 78.
Gatty, Oliver, 25, 42, 78, 112, 147-
150 ;
Obituary of, 206-207.
Goldney, Mrs, 154.
Greenwood, J. A., 265 ff.
Grindley, Mr, 51 fi'.
Heckle, H., 184.
Hindson, M. T., 42, 85 ff., 294, 298-
299, 310, 327-328.
Hitler as medium, in relation to the
German unconscious, 385.
Hitschmann, H., rejection of tele-
pathy by. 242-243.
Hodgson, Dr Richard, 211-212.
Ilga, K., case of, 227-232.
Infinite Traveller, reviewed, 199.
Irwin, Dr J. 0., 25, 42, 112, 147-150.
Johnson, Miss Alice, Obituary of, 16.
Johnstone, Mrs and Miss V., 154, 178-
179.
Jung, Dr C. G., 201 If., 377 ff.
Kellog, Prof., 152.
Leonard, Mrs Osborne, 213.
Lewis, Mrs Aletta, 112, 280-281, 296,
311-312.
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Obituary of, 209-! jB
223 ; 345, 361, 362, 369.
Manning-Sanders, G., 301-303.
“ Marion ” (Josef Kraus), 162.
Matthews, W. R., D.D., 1-15.
Mind and brain, relation between,
273 ff.
Miracles, psychical research and the
study of, 10-11.
Multiple Determination, Mr Soal’s
theory of, 187-190.
Myers, F. W. H., 209 ff.
Myers Memorial Lecture, sixth, 1-15 j
inaugural, 213.
Mifthology of the Soul, reviewed
201 .
iilei
Ifp
pk
Keii
” Natural history ” in psychical re-
search, 28-29.
Neureiter, Prof. F. von, 227 ff.
Newton, Miss I., 19-22.
Nicol, Fraser, 58, 285.
Nout, H., 58.
ialii
St
iiitli
itS
Itafe
Oldfield, R. C., 51 ff.
” One Mind ” Theory, the, 304-309.|
“ Originals ” (drawings), method in
production of, 45-47, 52-53, 56, 59.,
Osty, Dr, 368.
Paranormal Cognition, distribution!
and strength of, 32 ; of Drawings,
34-151 (see contents page, 34, for
headings not repeated in this
Index), 256-264, 277-344.
Parr, B. E., 141.
Pearson, Prof. E. S., 154.
Perrott Studentship in Psychical Re-
search, 23-24.
Piper, Mrs, 211.
Poortman, J. J., 58, 284.
Pratt, J. G., 265 ff.
Precognition, Mr Redmayne’s ap2)ar-
atus for testing, 245-255.
Precognitive displacement effects,
180 ;
groups of, 110, 183, 186.
Price, Harry, 154.
Price, Prof. H. H., 5, 13-14, 15, 89,
271-276, 296.
Psychical Research and Theology,
Iff.
IJo
ta
mi
Index to Vol. XLVI 391
JIT
165]
® Quality of results in paranormal cog-
nition, method of measuring, 97-98.
Rayleigh, Lord, on Sir O. Lodge’s
I
scientific work, 213-216.
'.Raymond, or Life and Death, 213.
^'iRedmayne, Geoffrey, 245-255.
I
Repeatable experiments, 29-30, 36.
Retrocognitive (post-cognitive) dis-
,
placement effects, 180 ; groups of,
no, 183, 186.
Rhine, Dr J. B., 58, 61-62, 152, 195,
265 ff.
»l|Richet, 210-211.
Richmond, Kemieth, review by, 199-
200.
lalter, Mrs W. H., 18-19.
lalter, W. H., review by, 201-205.
Jaltmarsh, H. F., 42, 112, 195-196,
280, 345-360, 361 ff.
Ichizophrenia, 201 ff.
‘
Skin-reading ”, 226.
Imith, B. M., 265 if.
imith. Dr Rawdon, 51 if.
loal, S. G., 25 ff.. Ill, 152-198.
itatistical treatment, importance of,
25-29. See also Assessment.
Itevens, W. L., 84, 122, 149-50, 168,
175, 256-264, 285, 322, 342.
ituart, C. E., 265 ff.
™ Imwival, 9, 11 ;
Sir 0. Lodge on, 212 ;
Bergson’s philosophv and, 275-276
345-376.
Telepathy, difficult to reconcile with
materialism, 7-8 ;
209-210 ;
ex-
clusion of, in cross-correspon-
dences, 213 ;
psychopathological
aspects of, 224-244 ; case of Ilga
K., 227-232 ; in connexion with
psychological treatment, 236 fif. ;
rejection of, by various authorities,
242-243, 379 ;
from the operator, as
a disturbing factor in E.S.P. work,
245.
Theology, Psychical Research and,
1 .
Thomas, Rev. C. Drayton, 345,
346.
Thompson, Mis (medium), 212-213.
Thomson, Sir J. J., Obituary of, 209.
Thouless, Dr, 25, 30, 33, 42, 112, 154,
283, 298, 330.
Trinity College, Cambridge, and the
Perrott Studentship, 23-24.
University groups’ co-operation in
experimental work, 290 if.
Walker, Miss Nea, 218-223.
Warcollier, Rene, 130.
Wdmot, Mrs, case of, 371.
Wiltze, Dr, case of, 372.
Workers’ Educational Association,
55.
Zangwill, 0. L., 55.
Zener Cards, 152, 154 ff.
le-
ts,
i9,
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEUOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
i
icf; 'Vl>
V'il.v air-
.0!.
.'•i* .
m
’
x.i^.
'
V :
''
.M iW.Ain£m\
;>-«•
. .. . «tk. J.;^.:vfi.y. ..•I
'
\ 'r\ ^ •m'dtHll
; 5
.' .'tt
:'
7 :..
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 161
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND THEOLOGY i
BY
W. R. Matthews, D.D., Dean of St. Paul’s
The subject which I propose to discuss in this lecture is a large one
and I must apologise at the beginning for the superficiality of what
I have to say on many topics which need prolonged and profound
discussion. My excuse is that I believe it may be useful to take a
rapid survey of a territory which has been but little explored and
try to gain some conception of the work which needs to be done.
One limitation I must insist upon in order to avoid misunder-
standing. My title is “ Psychical Research and Theology ”—not
Religion. Though it is impossible to draw a clear line of distinction
between religion and theology, or indeed between theory and
practice in general, in a rough way we can distinguish the experience
of religion from the intellectual activity of the formulation of
religious doctrines and concepts. In this lecture I shall have
nothing to say, either in criticism or approval, of Spiritualism in so
far as that is a religion and I shall confine myself to Christian
theology, partly because it is the only one about which I am com-
petent to speak and partly because it is the only one with which
psychical research in this country comes into contact.
The attitude of the Christian Church to psychical research in the
past has been, on the whole, one of antagonism, or at least of
suspicion. This has not been, in the main, due to scepticism con-
cerning the phenomena which are the subject-matter of the enquiry,
^ This lecture, being the Sixth Myers Memorial Lecture, was delivered at
a General Meeting of the Society on 17 January 1940.
A 1
o W. R. MaUhews, D.D. [PAKT
but rather to a conviction that they were real and that they came
from a source only too well known. Though at least one of the
Hebrew prophets regarded the idols of the heathen as simply
illusions and some of the Christian Fathers held the same view, the
general opinion has been that abnormal and supernatural pheno-
mena could be produced by evil spirits and that the pagan altars
were erected to devils not too deeply disguised. Only in the eigh-
teenth and nineteenth centuries did any considerable number of
Christians adopt a sceptical position with regard to the possibility
of witchcraft and commerce with the devil.
In recent times the reluctance of Christians to see any good in
psychical research has, I suppose, arisen from two different causes.
On the one hand, there remained the traditional feeling that such
investigations were dangerous and partook of the nature of com-
municating with “ familiar spirits ” ;
on the other hand, there was
the attitude of disdain commonly adopted by the scientific world
towards psychical research. The two orthodoxies, religious and
scientific, so different in other respects, concurred in regarding
psychical research as disreputable. It would, of course, be both
inaccurate and ungrateful to forget that this general attitude of
suspicion has had notable exceptions. Christian divines have con-
tributed to the study of paranormal phenomena and that eminent
Victorian ecclesiastic. Bishop Boyd Carpenter, held the presidency
of our Society. In very recent years a notal)le change may be
observed. The spread of interest in the subject, sometimes in
questionable forms, led the Archbishops to appoint a Commission
to consider the question of the relation of psychical research and of
spiritualism to the Christian faith. This Commission reported some
time ago and the delay in the publication of its findings suggests
that they may have found their final resting place in the archiepis-
copal pigeon holes, if not in the archiepiscopal mind. In these cir-
cumstances I feel myself at liberty to disclose only two facts about
the work of that Commission. No one will be surprised to hear that
strong difference of opinion was manifested in the Commission.
That might have been predicted. What was perhaps miexpected
by many members of the Commission was the evidence that a
number of people had found in psychical research a confirmation
of their Christian faith and even a way from agnosticism to belief.
This has received a very limited support from Professor Broad who,
in a recent essay on the future of Christianity, mainly pessimistic
in tone, expresses surprise that theologians do not pay more atten-
tion to the implications of the results of ]jsychical research. In
attempting to contribute something to this enterprise I feel that I
161 ]
Psychical Research and Theology 3
shall be acting in the spirit of the great man whose name this lecture
commemorates, for Frederic Myers never concealed the fact that he
hoped to gain from psychical research new light on the mystery of
man’s life and destiny.
The area in which there seems to be some contact between
theology and psychical research is far wider than the one question
which occupies the horizon of many—that of survival of bodily
death. The problem of survival is, in some respects, the most im-
portant and the most controversial and I propose to leave it to the
end, first making some remarks upon some topics which are, from
the theological point of view, prior to that of personal immortality.
The scope of theology in modern times is larger than is suspected
by those who have not studied the subject. The growth of scientific
knowledge has presented it with new problems and new tasks.
Among these is that of the nature and development of religion in
general. For theologians of an earlier time these problems scarcely
existed, or, if they were admitted at all, seemed capable of finding
a summary solution. The development of the study of Anthropology
and Comparative Keligions has changed the situation profoundly.
There are still Christian theologians who think it not only possible
but essential to treat Christianity as a revelation so distinctive and
unique that it has no significant relations with other religions, and
of late, under the influence of Karl Barth, they have become both
numerous and influential ;
but, on the whole, it remains true that
the modern theologian, while holding that in Christianity is con-
tained a miique revelation, recognises that it has a place in the
general development of the religious experience and of religious
ideas.
A great deal of importance has been attached to the definition of
religion and the fact that among the hundred or more suggested
definitions not one has secured general acceptance does not indicate
that the whole discussion has been futile. There would be no great
value in possessing a logical definition of religion ;
a formula which
would cover the beliefs and experience of all religious persons from
the fetish worshipper to the philosopher-saint would tell us little
about the significance of religion. The real interest in the discussion
is the enquiry into the nature and significance of religion as an
aspect of the continuing and developing life of humanity, to decide
how it can be distinguished from magic and, at a later stage of its
evolution, how it differs from and how it is related to other modes of
spiritual activity, such as morafity and art.
In my opinion this question of the nature of religion and its
status as a “ moment ” in the fife of spirit cannot be decided by any
4 W. E. Matthews, D.D. [part
empirical method, but is one of the central problems of metaphysics. 1
Nevertheless, within limits, assistance has been gained from psy- I
chology—though not I think so much assistance as some psycholo- |
gists would allege. It is difficult to say whether psychical research
can help us much in this department of theology, but there is one
special aspect of the general problem of the nature of religion where
it is conceivable some important contribution might come from
researches such as this Society is concerned with. It has been held
by some distinguished writers that mysticism is the essence of I
religion or, alternatively, that in the mystical experience we have
religion in its most concentrated form. Others have held, on the
contrary, that mysticism is a form of religious experience which is
doubtfully Christian and certainly not the highest. It is a well-
known fact that some of the physical phenomena related on good
authority as happening in connection with saints of the mystical
type have also occurred in connection wdth mediums—this at least
is alleged on equally good authority. The most notable example is
levitation. This obviously suggests some relation between the
mystical and the mediumistic trance. But this remark does not take
us very far, for clearly the two types of experience might have this
characteristic in common and yet be, in all important respects, quite
different. It appears to me that many writers on religion assume
too readily that mysticism, as such, is good and that, when once we
have described a man as a mystic, we are absolved from the duty
enjoined on us by the Apostle to “ try the spirits whether they be
of God.” I am inclined to think that there are mystical states which
are morally and spiritually either indifferent or evil. There are
persons who have what we can only call “ spiritual power ”, who |
are apparently in contact with some source of energy which rein-
forces their natural endowments and gives them a unification of
purpose which makes them most formidable, but these persons are
often evil and their mystical experience is a heightening of their will
and their capacity for destruction. In other words, I believe that
there is meaning in the word “ demonic ”. We should not have to
look very far for an example of a mystic of this type or for the
evidence of his power for evil. It occurs to me that some light on
this question might be gained by a study of the effect of mediumship
on the personality and character of the medium. Probably some-
thing has already been done on these lines, but if so I am not
acquainted with it and there are obvious reasons why a publication
of results would be difficult. I should expect to find that, in cases
where there was already a formed character, that character would
be enhanced by the mediumistic experience.
161 ]
Psychical Research and Theology 5
There is another element in the problem of religion—its develop-
ment. The theologian of the liberal type has generally held that
the history of religion, in spite of its very questionable pages, has
been, on the whole, a progress in the apprehension of Reality. He
has contended that the crudest creed had some scintilla of truth and
that the development of the idea of God, culminating in the Christian
revelation, was the evolution not of an illusion but of a concept
which is, in Leibniz’s phrase, be^ie fundatum. The theologian
has not found it an easy task to interpret the story of religion as one
which has a denouement, though Ido not think he has been defending
a hopeless cause even on the assumption that the commonly accepted
presuppositions of Anthropology are correct. He may at least claim
the support of Dr Whitehead, who has said that religion is the one
sphere of human activity in which progress is undeniable. But
there has been one formidable difficulty. Religion has been associ-
ated with beliefs and practices which, from the standpoint of modern
scientific common sense, are illusions and superstitions. It has
believed that it had experiences which in fact it could not have had.
The question is obvious : Where so much is admittedly superstition
and error may we not infer that the central belief, that in God, and
all the experience associated with it are infected with the same
illusiveness? The inference is natural enough, though illogical.
There would be a gain, if not from the standpoint of pure reason at
least for the imagination, if we could push back the frontiers of mere
phantasy in the history of religion.
Professor Price in his Presidential Address expressed the hope
that anthropologists would learn something of psychical research
and psychical researchers something of Anthropology. It is indeed
much to be wished. Scientific research on the history of religion has
taken for granted that nothing can happen which is undreamed of
in Herbert Spencer’s philosophy. It is often said that spiritualism
is the revival of ancient superstitions and there is obvious truth in
the remark, but it may be that the revival is due not only to the
persistent needs of the human mind and its readiness to be deceived,
but also to the fact that there was some basis in genuine experience
for these ancient beliefs. Certainly the phenomena of the medium’s
trance, clairvoyance, and haunting, which have been the subject of
careful study, seem to be analogous to what we hear of oracles and
of the sacred places. We must add that the mixture of fraud with
authentic paranormal phenomena seems to be testified both in
ancient and modern times. There is good evidence that pious de-
ception played a part in the temple-worship of more than one
ancient religion. It is, I understand, the opinion of experienced
6 W. R. Mattheivs, D.D. [part
investigators that mediums who have been detected in trickery have
sometimes been possessed of genuine powers of producing para-
normal phenomena.
Though it is evident enough that these observations are strictly
relevant to one branch of theological study, it is exceedingly difficult
to say precisely what consequences they might be expected to have.
I have suggested that psychical research may throw light on the
development of religion and perhaps do something to remove the
impression that, at least in its earlier stages, it consists entirely of
illusions, but evidently the theologian will be left with a new
problem on his hands. What relation have these psychic experi-
ences with the growth of the knowledge of God and how are they
to be connected with the idea of revelation? I certainly have no
solution to this problem and I suggest that the theologian cannot
really make mucb progress in its solution until there is some measure
of agreement among investigators concerning the causes of the
phenomena. If the spiritistic hypothesis should eventually be
accepted as the most likely one, we should be back at a position very
much like that of the primitive Church, which, while repudiating
the whole of pagan religion, did not question the existence of the
heathen deities or the reality of their influence. St. Paul, at least in
one phase of his thought, seems to have regarded the whole of the
religion of the world prior to the advent of Christ as partly the work
of evil spirits and partly due to the mediation of spirits which were
not evil but certainly lower than God. Christ, according to this
view, triumphed over all these “ powers and principalities ” not by
showing that they did not exist but by making them unnecessary,
by opening direct access to God. The horror of falling away from
Christ to pay honour to spiritual powers was not that they did not
exist but that they did, and the backslider was to be reprehended,
not because he was superstitious but because he was under the
influence of spiritual forces which were either evil or at least lower
than the highest. It seems not impossible that a conception of this
kind may once again appear as worthy of the consideration of
philosophers.
The central question for theology is the reality of God and His
nature. Every other problem is subordinate to this and must be
treated in relation to it. Though there are undoubtedly persons, as
I have remarked, who have had their faith in God increased and
enlarged by their study of psychic phenomena, I do not see how
Theology can gain any direct assistance from this source. No one
who understands what he is about would suppose that there could
be a purely empirical argument for Theism or that God could be the
161 ]
Psychical Research and Theology 7
conclusion of an investigation by scientific methods. This does not
mean that empirical data do not play a necessary part in the
argument for Theism ;
they are the starting point, for example, of
the famous Cosmological and Teleological proofs. The most which
we can expect from psychical research is some significant addition
to the data. The alleged communications of departed spirits deal
frequently with this central problem of theology, but I must confess
that, with few exceptions, the sermons of the departed seem worse
even than those of preachers still in the flesh—more dogmatic and
less coherent. That some personality purporting to be the spirit of
a great man or of a friend should believe in God is not necessarily
more convincing than the fact that Mr H. G. Wells does not believe
in God. We do not know what opportunities the alleged communi-
cator has for arriving at a rational conclusion. Nor again, so far as
I have been able to judge, is there any unanimity in the utterances
of “ spirits ”, either on the nature of God or even on His reality.
Even if we accept the spiritistic hypothesis, there is nothing of any
importance to be gained with respect to belief in God from the
testimony of the departed.
Nevertheless I think the results of psychical research have a
certain indirect value for the theologian in his unending debate on
the question An Deus sit. The great enemy of theistic belief is
materialism in the wider sense—that naive philosophy which is the
natural initial assumption of both common sense and science. We
need not define materialism further than by saying that it covers
any philosophy which seeks to explain the higher in terms of the
lower and, more specifically, regards mind as wholly dependent upon
the physical order or even as a kind of shadow cast by it. I do not
say that a refutation of this theory is equivalent to a demonstration
of Theism, for there are other views which escape the absurdities
of materialism, but I suggest that to expose its inadequacy is an
important element in the case for Theism.
I do not wish to be misunderstood. I do not hold that psychical
research has provided us with a disproof of materialism nor that it
can do so ;
the claim which I would make is more modest. It seems
to me that a survey of the evidence, on the whole, suggests that
materialism will not do. It makes the hypothesis not more plausible
but less.
Let us glance briefly at the data. I suppose that the fact of tele-
pathic communication is about as widely accepted as anything in
this highly controversial field. It would, of course, be absurd to
allege that no explanation is conceivable which would not harmonise
with a materialistic philosophy, but the facts as we have them seem
8 W. R. Mattheivs, D.D. [part
highly recalcitrant to such treatment. On the surface, what we i
have is a direct communication between mind and mind, in some |
instances at least, apparently instantaneous over long distances. So !
far as I know, no physical hypothesis which even pretends to explain J
the phenomena has ever been put forward. The general statement
'
that it is “ all done by waves ” seems about as enlightening as the
explanation that the vanishing trick by conjurers is “ all done by
mirrors ”, for even if there were a vibration detected, which seems
unlikely, a vibration is not a thought or a feeling.
In the present circumstances it seems wise to say nothing about
“ extra-sensory perception ”, because the experiments in this
country have failed to confirm Dr Rhine’s results, and it would seem
unlikely that the atmosphere of Duke University is specially favour-
able for the development of this faculty. It is sufficient to observe
that, if the existence of this power should be proved, even in one
instance, it would be very difficult to fit in with any materialistic
philosophy.
The phenomena of prediction, in the various forms in which they
are alleged to occur, are admittedly perplexing, but so far as my
reading goes it is difficult to doubt that authenticated cases are not
very uncommon. Assuming that there are experiences which seem
to presuppose acquaintance with events which have not yet occurred,
they would have indirectly an important bearing on belief in God.
In the first place, they may be said to lend some support to the belief
itself. Personally, I do not see that theories about the nature of
time, interesting and important as they are, can clear up the mystery.
There may be many time-series, but the event which is foreseen or
predicted is an event which will happen in the time-series of the
j
persons concerned, the one in which they are now and which will ;
continue until the predicted event comes to pass. The problem is,
how can an event, which has not yet happened, be an object of
knowledge, not by inference, but by acquaintance ? Probably there
are several philosophies which could incorporate this alleged fact,
but at least it may be said for Theism that it has a ready explanation.
Events may exist before they happen in the mind of God. But this i
brings us to the second theological implication of prediction. Must
we not hold, if we adopt the theistic explanation, that all events
are necessary, that the divine Providence orders all things in such
a way that nothing is really contingent and freedom of choice is an
illusion? Some Christian theologians have not shrunk from these
conclusions, but whatever may be said for them on other grounds,
I do not think they are necessary consequences of prediction. It !
would be equally plausible to conceive that all the possible courses
161 ] Psychical Research and Theology 0
of events are present to the divine Mind and that the one predicted
is only one of the events which may occur. Most of us know of
instances where an apparently predictive experience has indicated
an event which might have happened and which nearly happened
but which did not happen. Possibly the prediction hindered its
own fulfilment. The theologian would have no difficulty in sup-
posing that some predictive experiences are warnings which may or
may not be heeded.
I shall have to refer to the problem of survival later in the lecture,
but it is obviously relevant to this question which I am at present
discussing. It would, I suppose, be accepted by all psychical re-
searchers that the hypothesis of survival is one of the “ live options ”,
to use a phrase invented by one of our most eminent Presidents.
Nothing has emerged which rules out the hypothesis, and I think we
may go further and say that several facts have been established
which would certainly not have been anticipated by one who holds
that consciousness is a function of the body. The persistence of the
personality after the dissolution of the physical organism not only
remains a possibility but there are indications that the purely
empirical investigation renders it more plausible than it was when
these super-normal phenomena were regarded as nothing but
illusion. That I believe to be a cautious statement of the position
and, if it is correct, we may say that psychical research has here
again failed to confirm materialism and has, within limits, afforded
some support to a contrary theory ;
for it seems to me to be beyond
question that the establishment of survival would be a fatal blow
to every type of materialist hypothesis.
If I had milimited time at my disposal I should now proceed to
discuss the bearing of physical phenomena, such as telekinesis, on
the question before us, but the facts are so perplexing that I have
nothing of any importance to contribute to their explanation. On
the whole, they seem to suggest once more the existence of force
which is not, in any ordinary sense of the word, physical.
I do not doubt that hypotheses of a materialistic kind can be
framed to cover all these phenomena which I have briefly touched
upon, but they become so complex that they lack persuasiveness.
The general impression, I suggest, which an unprejudiced observer
would gain from a survey of the various classes of well-authenticated
super-normal phenomena would be unfavourable to a materialist
philosophy and thus, up to a point, favourable to the theistic
conception, but, I must repeat, I do not think for a moment
that any direct support for belief in God can be gained from them.
Perhaps we might put it roughly in this way : the phenomena
10 W. R. Matthews, D.D. [part
in question are much less surprising and disconcerting to one who
holds a theistic philosophy than to one whose presuppositions are
materialistic.
The plan of my lecture obliges me to pass rapidly from one subject
to another and I must now make some remarks on a matter which
has great importance for Christians—the reliability of the New
Testament narratives as a whole. I believe that one of the indirect
effects of psychical research has been to encourage a new attitude
on the part of critical scholars to the so-called “ miraculous
”
element in the Gospels and Acts. In this field, as in the wider field
of the history of religion, we have been under the domination of a
narrow rationalism which assumed in advance that “ miracles do
not happen ” ;
by this is meant that no event could possibly have
occurred which transcended commonplace experience. Thus it
became necessary to relegate all the supernatural incidents of the
New Testament to the category of mistake, illusion or legend. The
consequences of this supposed scientific necessity were embarrassing,
because the earliest sources for the life of Christ plainly represent
Him as the possessor of abnormal powers and, if the whole of this
element in the Gospels must be rejected, we are left with a residuum
which must itself be suspect by reason of its association with such
questionable matter. A great accumulation of knowledge, not all
of it derived from psychical research, has altered the situation.
Spiritual and mental healing, the study of divided personahties,
clairvoyance, telekinesis, all these have suggested very forcibly that
the limits of the credible were too narrowly drawn by the older
rationalists. It appears to me that the Society for Psychical
Research is a standing refutation of Hume’s famous argument
against miracles. You remember that, taking a miracle to be an
event contrary to common experience, he urged that it is more
probable that testimony should be false or mistaken than that a
miracle should happen. But all the phenomena w'hich our Society
investigates are contrary to common experience, yet we are per-
suaded that some at least of them occur. In view of these facts
I do not believe that any reasonable person would be inclined to
assign limits to what phenomena might accompany the appearance
of a personality which, in any view, was among the most potent
influences which history records. Professor Saurat has recently
illustrated the vision of St. Peter which revealed to him the necessity
of admitting Gentiles into the Church by analogies with modern
instances of telepathy and no doubt other detailed applications to
New Testament narratives have been made. But the chief interest
of all this to the theologian, apart from its bearing on the reliability
161 ] Psychical Research and Theology 11
of the records, is the light which may be thrown on the significance
of the supernatural in the life of Christ.
The attitude of Jesus towards His own “ mighty works ” is not
easy to determine. On the one hand, when confronted by the
messengers of John the Baptist with the question :
“ Art thou he
that should come? ” He points to works of healing culminating in
the raising of the dead and puts along with them the fact that “ the
poor have the good news proclaimed to them ”. It may be that
these “ mighty works ” are to be understood in a fignrative sense,
that the lame in spirit walk, the spiritually blind see and the spiri-
tually dead are raised up, but I think this is unlikely and that the
Evangelist at least meant the words to be taken literally. On the
other hand, Jesus says that it is an evil generation which seeks for
a sign. We may perhaps conclude that He attached a quite second-
ary importance to the supernatural powers which He exercised, but
that He considered them to have value as arresting attention and
giving confirmation of his unique character and mission. The result
of a fresh consideration of the miraculous narratives in the light of
modern psychical research would go some way to confirm this point
of view. Obviously the old-fashioned “ argument from miracles
”
receives no support. That depended on the assumption that the
miracles of the Gospels were unique, and evidently we shall not help
that assumption by finding analogies to them. But the occurrence
of these remarkable phenomena is at least congruous with the belief
that the Person who caused them was unique. Spiritual power
might be expected to manifest itself, not only in teaching and heroic
action, but by the use of psychic capacities for spiritual purposes.
I now turn to the subject which to many appears the only im-
portant one—that of survival. Among those who are convinced
that psychical research establishes, or goes near to establish, survival
of bodily death there is much natural impatience with theologians,
because they have been so slow to avail themselves of the help which
was at hand. I have already said that I admit the theologians have
been excessively timid on the whole in this matter, but I must add
they have reasons for hesitation which are worthy of respect. The
most important reason is that they are not sure of the ground ;
they do not know whether the belief in survival, which might be
supported by psychical research, is really a spiritual behef at all.
Christian thinkers of many different schools have expressed this
doubt. They would say, the belief that human personality survives
death is not, as such, a rehgious belief, nor has it any spiritual value.
The only immortality which is worth having and which forms a
part of the Christian hope is life in the presence of God. That this
12 W. JR. Mattheivs, D.D. [part
personality just as it is will go on after the dissolution of the body
is not necessarily good news—it may be very bad news. The
religious man should desire a future life only in so far as it offers
new opportunities of spiritual progress and closer communion with
God. Some of these theologians lay stress upon the distinction
between the future life and eternal life, by which they mean life
interpenetrated by the eternal values. Some, it seems, regard the
question of a future life almost with indifference on the ground that
the eternal life which is not subject to the limitations of time may
be oiirs here and now.
We must admit that there is some ground for the suspicion with
which many theologians regard the empirical proof of survival.
Heine said that most believers would be perfectly happy without
God if they could be sure of their own immortality ;
they needed
Him only as a guarantee that they would not perish. No one would
doubt that Christians of this kind exist and no one would doubt that
they are very bad Christians. History and modern experience show
that excessive concern with the question of one’s own survival and
that of one’s friends may have a deleterious effect on the life of the
spirit. Historians of Hebrew religion have pointed out the para-
doxical fact that it was partly because the Hebrews had no belief
for a long time in personal survival that their conception of God
was able to develop along lines quite different from those of the
other Semites.
But when all this is said, I cannot agree that Theology may safely
ignore the empirical evidence. In my opinion, the only arguments
for personal immortality which have any value depend upon the
belief in the existence of God ;
and further no conceivable accumu-
lation of evidence could prove the reality of everlasting life.
Plainly the evidence could, at the most, show that some persons
survived bodily death, but it could not show that all persons did,
nor could it show that any persons triumphed over death so that it
had no more dominion over them. The possibility would remain
that extinction overtook them in the end. Nevertheless, within
these limits, the existence of empirical evidence for survival would,
I think, have important religious and theological consequences.
There are some minds which are wellnigh impervious to philosophical
and theological reasoning, but which capitulate to facts. I do not
doubt that a demonstration, if such a thing could be imagined,
which convinced everyone that a particular individual who had
died was communicating with his friends would have a profound
effect on the outlook of the majority of people and that this effect
would be to incline them to a religious view of life. But I would go
161 ]
Psychical Research and Theology 13
further. It seems to me that, however firmly persuaded a man
might be on other grounds that the soul is immortal, he ought to
welcome facts which tend to confirm belief that death is not final.
For the standing difficulty is this, that death appears indeed to be
the “ bourne from which no traveller returns ”. Beyond there is
silence. The voice which we once heard we hear no more, the
thoughts which we once shared we share no longer. However great
our faith or our reliance on arguments of reason, we cannot stifle the
conjecture that there “ all their thoughts perish ”. To me at least
it would be a momentous thing if I could be sure that a thought had
come to me from one whom I had known on earth and was now no
longer among those we call “ the living ”.
Has this happened? or to ask a more modest question. Has
psychical research produced any evidence which makes belief in
survival more probable, from a strictly scientific point of view?
You will not expect me to sum up at the end of a lecture a complex
and controversial problem, nor do I imagine that my personal
views are likely to have any considerable value, but since the
relation of psychical research to Theology does depend, to some
extent, on the question of what hopes of a positive result from these
enquiries may be entertained, I feel that I should be shirking an
important issue if I did not give my opinion for what it is worth.
One is sometimes tempted to believe that some power—whether
beneficent or malevolent I do not know—has determined that we
shall never reach certainty on the subject of the life beyond and that
to secure this it has sent a lying spirit into the prophets. The
records of psychical research are full of deceit, fraud and illusion.
But when one has discounted all this there remains a residuum of
established facts which, prima facie, suggest the hypothesis of
survival ;
that at least is my opinion. I am confirmed in this con-
clusion by observing that several eminent philosophers, who for
various reasons are reluctant to accept the survival theory, have
recently been led to put forward alternative theories which, in effect,
admit some kind of persistence after death, though not personal
,
persistence. I refer, of course, to the various forms of the “ psychic
factor ” hypothesis. I suppose that these philosophers have con-
vinced themselves that telepathy between the living does not
account for all the phenomena, and in this they are surely right.
Professor H. H. Price, in his Presidential Address, developed a
theory on the lines of the psychic factor to explain certain types of
haunting in which he used the conception of an “ aether of images ”.
With modesty as rare in a philosopher as it is praiseworthy, he con-
I
ceded that his theory might turn out to be “ nonsense ” and that
14 W. K. Matthews, D.D. [part
it could be torn in pieces by a competent second-year student of ;
philosophy. I am certainly very far from thinking that the theory
is nonsense and I have had enough experience to know that many
ideas which suffer annihilating dissection at the hands of second-
year students survive as useful guides along the path to truth in the
minds of wiser men. No doubt this is the case with the President’s
fascinating hypothesis, but I confess I found myself saying, “ How
much simpler to believe in ghosts! ” Of course, the reflection was
stupid, because it is by no means simple to believe in ghosts or i
indeed to say what believing in ghosts means. Nevertheless there
was perhaps a serious thought behind the frivolous exclamation.
I think it was this. Unless I am mistaken, every theory which i
employs the concept of a “ psychic factor ” existing apart from a i
psyche must hold the possibility of what Mr Bradley used to call
“ floating ideas ”. The word “ factor ” is a vague one and I confess !|
I do not know what it means in this connection. The word I
“ psychic ” is not vague. It means, I suppose, anything that may i
be an element in the experience of a psyche, such as thoughts, ,
emotions, feelings, conation and acts of choice. The phrase “ psychic :
factor ” seems to be a rather confusing way of saying that thoughts, ^
emotions, feelings and all the rest have a kind of independent exist- ^
ence, so much so that they may persist when there is no longer any [j
consciousness which possesses them. The theory is generally
developed on the basis of the persistence of images, and here perhaps i
it offers least difficulty, but, to confine ourselves to the subject of
haunting, these images seem, in some cases, to be charged with !i
emotion, and a feeling which is no longer felt has a mode of existence i
which baffles me. !i
One is left with the question whether the idea of thoughts which |i
are not thought, of images which are not conceived and of experience i
which is not experienced is really an intelligible one. There is at j
least no evidence of the existence of such “ floating ideas ”. If the i
believer in survival is confronted with the alleged fact that we have
no knowledge of any consciousness which is not associated with an
organism, he may reply, with even greater force, that we have no
j
knowledge of psychic factors except in relation with a psyche. In
j
view of the perplexities which arise when we try to make clear the
meaning of a “ psychic factor ” I should be inclined to expect that
this very limited advance towards the hypothesis of survival will
have to be amended and that any amendment will bring it nearer
to the ordinary conception of the survival of the self.
Since in this part of my lecture I am perforce giving simply my
own opinions, I may be allowed to add a comment on the idea of
161 ]
Psychical Research and Theology 15
survival. One of the objections made against it as an explanatory
hypothesis is that it is vague, indefinite and obscure, that its meaning
needs to be defined. After grappling with some of the alternative
hypotheses, I confess that this particular objection strikes me as
odd. Indeed I should have said that one of its chief virtues is its
simplicity and intelligibility compared with the com2Jlexity and
abstruseness of its rivals. No one questions that the application of
the hjqiothesis to the facts offers many problems, but the hypo-
thesis itself could be stated, I should have thought, in words to
which everyone attaches a meaning. Personal survival is the hypo-
I thesis that the centre of consciousness which was in existence before
. death does not cease to be in existence after death and that the
i experience of this centre after death has the same kind of continuity
I
with its experience before death as that of a man who sleeps for a
while and wakes again. The difficulty that our experience is largely
that of states and changes of our bodies is certainly formidable but
not, I think, decisive. We have at least in Professor Price’s Pre-
sidential Address some valuable suggestions towards the conception
of a “ spiritual body ” which has a real continuity with the body of
flesh. I repeat, the survival hypothesis may be hard to accept, but
I cannot think it is hard to understand.
This lecture has, I fear, been rather of the nature of observations
on several topics and I should be the last to claim that it has estab-
hshed any conclusions. It is no excuse to say that I have laboured
at it, for I fear in the result I have been hke the poet spoken of by
Alexander Pope, “ sleepless myself to give my hearers sleep I
must plead that the subject is new and very large. It may have
been worth while to try to map out the country which, as I think,
waits for theologians to explore.
«
k'JinGO
16 Alice Johnson [PAET
OBITUARY
Alice Johnson
Alice Johnson was a member of a large family well known in
Cambridge, and entered Newnbam College in 1878. She became a
scholar of the College in 1 880, gained a First Class in Natural Science
in 1881, and was elected Bathurst Student in 1882. Shortly after
this the Balfour Laboratory, founded to commemorate the work of
Professor Francis Balfour, was inaugurated as part of Newnham
mainly through the efforts and generosity of Mrs Sidgwick, and
Alice Johnson was appointed in 1884 the first Demonstrator in
Animal Morphology there, a post which she held until 1890.
It was natural that anyone brought closely into touch with Prof,
and Mrs Sidgwick should develop an interest in psychical research.
In 1889 she took part as a sitter in the first series of sittings given
by Mrs Piper in England, and in the following year she assisted Mrs
Sidgwick in carrying out the well-known “ Brighton experiments in
thought-transference ” recorded in Proceedings Vol. VIII.
About this time the Society took in hand one of its most important
pieces of work, the Census of Hallucinations, the report on which,
jnibli.shed in 1894 in Vol. X of Proceedings, is one of the recognised
classics of psychical research. Alice Johnson was a memher of the
Committee which took the Census and presented the report, her
colleagues being Prof, and Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Frederic Myers and
Frank Podmore. Her work on the Census gave her invaluable ex-
perience in the critical analysis and valuation of evidence in “ spon-
taneous cases ”.
After being for several years private secretary to Mrs Sidgwick,
.she became in 1899 Editor of the Society’s Proceedings, the proposal
for her appointment being made by Frederic Myers. In 1903 she
was appointed Organising Secretary of the Society, and at the end
of 1908 Research Officer, a post she held until her retirement owing
to ill health in 1916. How large a part she played in the Society’s
work during those years may be gauged from the fact that in the
Combined Index for the Proceedings and Journal, covering the years
1901 to 1913, the entries under her name occupy more than four
pages.
161 ]
Obituary 17
Of any period in the Society’s history it may be said that it was a
period of great difficulty. The particular difficulties confronting the
Society during Alice Johnson’s tenure of office arose largely through
the death of Henry Sidgwick in 1900 and of Frederic Myers in 1901
.
The loss in rapid succession of two of the principal founders and
leaders of a still young society might easily, but for the energy of
those on whom the guidance of affairs then devolved, have led
either to a decline in the quantity and quality of the Society’s work,
or to the Society developing tendencies in a direction contrary to
the founders’ intentions. To Alice Johnson belongs no small
share of the credit for preserving the S.P.E. from either of these
disasters.
Frederic Myers did not live to complete Human Personality, and
the work of preparing the book for the press was entrusted to
Richard Hodgson and Alice Johnson, the latter having already been
occupied with the general supervision of the press work and the
marshalling of the Appendices, which were a most important part
of the book.
Most of Alice Johnson’s research work related to the “ mental
phenomena ”, as her grasp of the problems of evidence can have
left her in little doubt that progress was most likely to be made in
that direction. But two papers by her in Vol. XXI of Proceedings,
written shortly after a visit to the United States to investigate
“ physical ” phenomena there, contain valuable discussions as to
the possible hallucination of sitters under the conditions of the
seance room.
Spontaneous cases of “ mental ” phenomena were at that time
reported to the S.P.R. in a profusion that the present officers can
only envy. The persons concerned in these cases are often in a
highly emotional state, and need to be handled with tactful sym-
pathy. Alice Johnson possessed this quality in a high degree, but
she was able to combine with it a strict adherence to the evidential
standards on which the Society has always insisted. Carelessly
reported and badly documented cases met with a polite but firm
rejection at her hands.
The automatic writings of the “ S.P.R. group of automatists ”,
: which began shortly after Myers’s death, presented entirely new
!
problems of investigation. Nothing could have been made of them
i without most careful and systematic documentation on the one
I
hand, and on the other great enterprise as regards interpretation
i
and theory. Subsequent developments have shown how well and
j
truly were laid the foundations of this novel and difficult study,
the importance of which was on the increase throughout Alice
18 Alice Johnson [part
Johnson’s tenure of office. With this study she was from the first
intimately associated, and several of her most important papers in
Proceedings deal with automatic scripts, particularly Mrs Holland’s,
and the theory of cross-correspondences : see Proceedings Vols.
XXI, XXIV and XXV.
After her retirement through ill-health in 1916 she retained the
liveliest interest in psychical research, and gladly allowed herself
to be consulted on matters of interest to the Society. It is appro-
jDriate that her last paper in Proceedings (Vol. XLIV) should have
been a tribute to Mrs Sidgwick’s work in psychical research.
Below are printed contributions from two former colleagues of
Alice Johnson, Mrs W. H. Salter and Miss Isabel Newton.
I first came to know Alice Johnson well in 1909, when I was
appointed as her Assistant in the Society’s Research Department.
I found her daunting in the early months of my apprenticeship. I
had a fair general knowledge of psychical research but little previous
experience in research. Miss Johnson was a stern exponent of the
Society’s most rigorous traditions in exactitude ;
a fault or omission
never escaped her eagle eye and the most one seemed to get in praise
was “Yes, that will do ”. But I realised after a time that it was only
a matter of adjusting oneself to a rather low scale in the expression
of approval. A good piece of work would always find recognition
(though the words might be few and the manner dry), and when I
was criticised, I was bound to admit on reflection that criticism was
deserved.
Miss Johnson was (as every scientific worker should be) meticu-
lously accurate in ascertaining and recording all relevant facts ;
she was never satisfied with anything less than the whole truth, so
far as it was discoverable, and she expected others to conform to her
own high standard. To work with her was an admirable training in
.scientific method.
I also came to realise very soon the human sympathy and under-
standing that underlay that dry manner. It fell to Miss Johnson’s
lot (and to mine as her Assistant) to interview many of those who
came to the Society either to report personal experiences or to seek
advice. She was impatient of pretentious claims and a good judge
of character, not easily deceived, but where she felt that there was
a prospect of getting good material for the Society, or a need of
help that she could give, she never grudged time or trouble. She
had also in dealing with the human side of the Society’s work a
delightful sense of humour, which must often have stood her in good
stead.
161 ]
Obituary 19
I cannot imagine any one being associated with Alice Johnson
without coming to feel for her not only great respect, but also great
affection. I shall always keep a very pleasant memory of the years
we worked together, and I feel that whatever value my own work
may have for psychical research it owes largely to her teaching.
Hklen de G. Salter.
Mrs Salter has asked me to add to the Obituary of Miss Alice
Johnson a note on some of my own personal impressions concerning
her. These were formed during the years 1903-1916, when I worked
with her, first as an Assistant in the office, and later as Secretary
of the Society. At this distance of time the characteristics that
stand out most clearly in my memory are her courtesy, her con-
sideration for all who worked with her, her absorption in the work
of the Society, her sympathy, her sensitiveness and her integrity.
To a complete and very unsophisticated novice—as I was in 1903
—who dreaded the expected brusqueness of office manners. Miss
Johnson’s gentle courtesy was not only a thing of beauty, but it
j
was to me an incentive to put forth my best efforts. It conveyed
encouragement and confidence, and it never failed, notwithstanding
mistakes and ignorance on my part. Looking back, I see myself
as ever conscious and appreciative of it.
It had certain modulations, however, and by these she expressed
displeasure. Here I am reminded of her dislike of pretensions, and
:
of every form of overstatement. Her reaction to these not uncom-
i nion weaknesses was immediate ; her manner would stiffen, her
courtesy become chilling, and a faint air of hostility would spring
I up l:)etween herself and the offender. I have a vivid recollection of
i
an occasion when, describing an interview she had just had with
one of the most persistent offenders in this respect, she confessed to
having been “ quite rude ”. This being my one and only association
: of “ rudeness ” with her is probably the reason why this trivial
incident was not forgotten years ago.
.
My earliest memory of the office is of being asked by Miss Johnson
to write more clearly, so that the postmen should be able to see at
a glance the destination of the letters and so be spared unnecessary
trouble. I was to find later that this was typical of the consideration
she showed for everyone with whom she was in contact, directly or
indirectly. I remember her impressing upon me that, in replying
to correspondents, it was our duty to help them to understand, and
!
telling me that she found it helpful to assume, for that purpose,
; that they were ignorant and rather stupid. With this in mind she
20 Alice Johnson [part
took particular pains to cover every point in the enquiries and to
make her meaning clear. Her letters were singularly free from
ambiguities.
When I joined the office staff in October 1903, it was obvious that
her advent as Secretary the previous March had opened a new era
in the routine work. We generally found it difficult to trace refer-
ences l)efore that time, but with those of a later date it was a simple
matter. In a few months she had gathered the loose ends together
and had welded them into a system in which there was no confusion
and no uncertainty. The contrast gave meaning to her almost
meticulous insistency on accuracy. I remember that when, moved
by her disinterestedness and earnestness of purpose, I resolved quite
definitely to “ support ” her, my part in the co-operation seemed to
me to consist in nothing more nor less than to be accurate in every
particular
!
In the office her manner was gentle and rather shy. But her rule
was absolute. She was exacting to a degree in the matter of accu-
racy and thoroughness. Her displeasure was expressed by the
slight but unmistakable coldness of manner to which I have alluded ;
never by words of blame. She was invariably reasonable and just.
She showed thoughtful consideration for her staff in every possible
way. And she created, probably quite unconsciously, a strong
l)ond of unity between herself and her colleagues. There was never
any friction. I cannot recall one instance of a member of the staff
uttering a word of complaint against her.
Her devotion to the interests of the Society impressed me greatly.
I thought she sacrificed much for it, as it absorbed all her energy.
She was a slow worker ;
this, I think, was owing to the pains she
took to perceive clearly, and to impart her knowledge clearly. She
worked quietly and steadily, and was never hurried. Pictures of
her slip in and out of my mind as I write, but there is one that pre-
dominates. It is as I saw her evening after evening, when at six
o’clock I closed the office and went to her rooms for her letters. She
was seated at her desk writing, her grey head bent low under the
light of an electric lamp at her elbow, her short-sighted eyes close to
the ]iaper. She was always intent. I got the impression then that
her mind was never in flight : that she held it captive, forcing it to
record with exactitude what she wished to imjjart.
Lunching recently with Mrs Thatcher, a former Assistant-
Secretary of the Society, I asked her what stood out most in her
memory of Miss Johnson, and she answered at once, “ Her shyness,
and her absorption in the work of the Society.” “ I have a mental
image of her,” she added, and went on to describe it. It was of
161] Obituary 21
Miss Johnson writing at her desk, and it tallied with mine in almost
every detail.
When the Rooms of the Society were closed during August and
September for the vacation, we understood that Miss Johnson did
not wish to be approached on S.P.R. matters. She attached great
importance to good holidays, and 1 took it for granted that she then
relaxed. She always came back looking refreshed, but she did not
talk about her holiday. She rarely spoke about herself. It was our
custom to have tea together every afternoon, Imt even then we
generally discussed the affairs of the Society, and were more or less
impersonal. (It is odd, but I cannot remember ever having heard
Miss Johnson’s “ voice in laughter ”.) I think that this lack of
social intimacy was due partly to her inherent shyness, and partly
to a kind of mental decorum on my side, imposed by her seriousness
and by the fact that I felt, rightly or wrongly, that she invested the
office of Secretary (which I then held) with the dignity of a high
calling. I think now that we probably might have had more fun.
She belonged to the academic world, and her knowledge of life and
human nature outside it was limited, but I remember several
incidents which suggest that she enjoyed seeing other outlooks,
when they were sincere and natural.
She had a great capacity for sympathy, and a gift for expressing
it in letters simply and sincerely. But it was shown mostly in deeds.
I received so many kindnesses from her that, looking back, I see them
rather as evidence of an attitude to life than as detached actions. It
was as if she had assumed a certain moral responsibility for my
welfare as a colleague. Her kindness was sjiontaneous, and always
practical. In various ways she greatly added to my comfort and
well-being, and it was not until I enjoyed the benefits of her fore-
thought that I realised my former need. In particular, I can never
forget her great kindness during a long and serious illness I had in
1912. She thought of everything to help me. Again when I was
laid up the following year, she visited the Nursing Home and assured
herself that the best arrangements were made for me. I can say
without being guilty of an overstatement that, outside my own
family, no one showed so much solicitude for my well-being. She
continued to show it after she left the Society, until a comparatively
short time before her death ;
fearing that this or that arrangement
might “ fall heavily upon ” me, reminding me to take a “ good
holiday ”, and “ not to overwork ”. “ And try not to be anxious
as to how things go.” I think that this extract from one of her
letters not only shows sympathy, but suggests that things were not
always easy for her.
22 Alice Johnson [part
Few members of the Society knew her as we knew her in the
office. Some saw her as a ratlier austere little hgure, with an academic
manner which alarmed them. Some in closer contact accused her
of a love of power and resented her authority. This was inevitable,
for where there are two diametrically opposed approaches to a sub-
ject, the personal and the scientific, as in psychical research, there
must be conflict. Here I see her with a firm grip upon the affairs
and the policy of the Society, o^iposing tooth and nail everything
that threatened to weaken its scientihc character or lower its
scientific ])restige. She was a formidable foe, with an indomitalde
will. She had no vulnerable spots which might have deceived and
diverted her. She held herself intact, and subordinate to her
incorruptible integrity.
Sensitiveness and incorruptible integrity combined often lead to
unhappy hours and a continual bracing up of courage. I thought
on some occasions that this was Miss Johnson’s experience, and
several memories spring up which support the impression. The
contrast between her weakness and her strength inspired in me a
strong partisanship. Even now I am touched by her heroic qualities
and frail physique. I count it a great privilege to have worked with
her.
Isabel Newton.
161 ]
Perrotf Studentship in Psychical Research 23
[We print beloiv a notice of the Studentship recently established at
Trinity College, Cambridge, out of Mr F. D. Perrott’s bequest. We
believe this Studentship to be the first of its hind in this country, and
we welcome the close connection thus formed between Psychical Research
and. Trinity College, of which three of the Society's Founders, Gurney,
Myers and Sidgwich, rvere Fellows. Hon. Ed.~\
TRINITY COLLEGE
Perrott Studentship in Psychical Research
1
Trinity College, Cambridge, has established a Studentship for the
^ study of Psychical Research out of a bequest left to the College for
that purpose by Mr Frank Duerdin Perrott as a memorial to
F. W. H. Myers'
The Electors to the Perrott Studentship are prepared to receive
appHcations from candidates.
Psychical Research is defined, for this purpose, as ‘
the investiga-
tion of mental or physical phenomena which seem q^rima facie to
suggest («) the existence of supernormal powers of cognition or
action in human beings in their present life, or {b) the persistence of
the human mind after bodily death
The Studentship is open to any person who shall have completed
his or her twenty-first year at the time when the election takes place.
A Student may be re-elected once, but not more than once.
The Studentship is tenable for one year, and the Student will be
required to devote a substantial part of the period of his tenure to
investigating some problem in Psychical Research.
The Studentship will be of such value, not exceeding £300, as the
i Electors may award after considering the nature of the research
which the candidate proposes to undertake. The emolument will,
in general, be paid half-yearly, and the first instalment will be paid
on the quarter-day on which the tenure of the Studentship begins.
The Student shall, during the tenure of his Studentship, pursue to
the satisfaction of the Electors the course of research proposed by
him in his application ;
provided that such course may lie altered
with the consent of the Electors. If the Electors shall report to the
Council of Trinity College, Cambridge, that he is failing to pursue
24 Perrott Studentship in Psychical Research [part 161 ]
his course of research with due diligence, the Council may, if they
think fit, deprive him of his Studentship.
The Student shall not, during the tenure of his Studentship, follow
any business or profession or engage in educational or other work
which in the opinion of the Electors would interfere with his course
of research.
Applications from candidates should be sent to Professor C. D.
Broad, Trinity College, Cambridge, before 6 May 1940. In making
his application a candidate should state his qualifications and claims,
and his proposed course of research ;
he may also submit any work
which he has written, published or unpublished. No testimonials
are required from candidates who are graduates of Cambridge
University or women students on whom a title of a degree has been
conferred by that University. Other candidates must submit the
names of three referees, and the Electors will not award the Student-
shi]) to any such candidate uixtil they have had a personal interview
witli him.
The election to the Studentship will take place in the Easter
Term of this year, and, if a candidate, be elected, his tenure will
begin at Michaelmas following the election.
31 January 1940.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
i Society for Psychical Research
PART 162
:
INTRODUCTION TO MR WHATELY CARINGTON’S AND
MR SOAL’S PAPERvS
By Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D.
:
The Editor has asked me to write a brief introduction to the two
i papers, by Mr Whately Carington and Mr Soal, which form the main
1 contents of the present number of the S.P.R. Proceedings. I am
I very glad to do so. Mr Ayhately Carington’s work has been done in
Cambridge in consultation with a committee composed of himself,
I Mr Gatty, Dr Irwin, Dr Thouless, and the present writer. This
committee has held its meetings in my rooms in Trinity ;
so,
although my lack of expert knowledge and practical experience in
! statistical method has prevented me from contributing anytliing of
importance to their debates, I have at least been in constant touch
with this investigation from the outset. I have had no such direct
contact with Mr Soaks work. But I have read all that he has pub-
hshed on the subject with great interest, and I have always admired
the patience, thoroughness, and accuracy of all his many-sided con-
tributions to psychical research. It is an ill war that blows no one
any good, and the disaster that has befallen Europe has at least had
the good result of making Mr Soal a temporary resident in Cam-
I
bridge, 'where the members of our committee hve.
I suspect that the first reaction of many members of the Society
on opening this nmnber of the Proceedings will be to cry “ Another
mass of boring statistical stuff! ”, and that the second reaction of
some of these will be to leave the contents unread. This Idnd of
behaviour may be natural, but it is foolish on general grounds and
it would be most unfortunate in this particular case. I will now
give my reasons for these two assertions.
26 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
In almost every branch of psychical research the first questioni
that arises is this :
—Have coincidences of a certain kind happened
much more often than they might reasonably be expected to do by
chance? This question crops up in investigating mediumistic com-
munications which purport to give information about a dead person,
and in investigating the claim that a house is haunted, just as much
as it does in experimental researches on alleged para-normal
cognition, such as are reported in the present number of Pro-
ceedings. In the first case we want to know, before going any
further, whether considerably more of the medium’s statements
about the alleged communicator agree with the facts about him than
might reasonably have been expected by chance. In the second
case we want to know whether coincidences between staying in this
house and having sensory hallucinations of a certain kind are more
numerous than we might reasonably have anticipated if chance alone
were operating. It is only when tliese questions have been answered
in the afiirmative that there is anything worth investigating further.
But, although this kind of question arises everywhere, and al-
though in many cases we under.stand vaguely what it means and we
have a stronger or weaker personal conviction as to the answer, it
is only where statistical methods can be applied that the question
liecomes precise and that a completely definite and objective answer
becomes po.ssilde. What exactly is a “coincidence”? What is
meant by a coincidence “happening by chance”? How often
might coincidences of a given kind be reasonably expected to happen
by chance? What amount of deviation from the most probable
chance-frequency would it be reasonable to ascribe to chance?
There is one field of human activity in which precise answers can
be given to all these questions, and it is one that is perfectly familiar
to all of us, viz. what we call “ games of chance ”, such as are
played with cards, dice, roulette-boards, and so on. These answers
can be carried over into other fields without loss of relevance or
intelligibility just in proportion as those other fields are analogous
in all relevant respects to actual or conceivable games of chance.
Let us take an example from ordinary playing-cards. No one
competent to exjiress an ojiinion would question, e.g., any of the
following statements, except on the ground that a mistake might
have been made in the calculations which led to them. The most
likely number of hearts in a whist-hand properly dealt from a
properly constructed and shufiled pack of ordinary playing cards
is 3. rile probability that such a hand will contain exactly that
number of hearts is about -286. The probabihty that it will contain
exactly 4 is only shghtly less, viz. -238. The probabihty that it will
RT 162]
Introduction 27
OD contain more than 6 hearts is -0112. Suppose that 1000 hands were
ei dealt. Then the number of them which contain more than 6 hearts
I'J apiece is more likely to be 11 than any other number. The proba-
a- .bility that it will be exactly 11 is not great ;
but the probability
Ithat it will be less than 16 is -9332, and the probability that it will
be less than 20 is -9965. Therefore, if in a thousand hands there
al were considerably more than 20 which contained more than 6 hearts
0-
apiece, it would be reasonable to feel almost certain that there was
ly something wrong with the pack or the shuffling or the dealing.
t! Now contrast this example with cases where statistical methods
IE cannot be applied, and one can only make such remarks as “It is
'incredible to me that Mrs X, that simple and ignorant woman,
is should by chance have made so many true and striking statements
re about the deceased Mr Y”. Possibly one’s incredulity may be quite
le justified, and possibly the situation may have been such that a
majority of fair-minded readers with no strong prejudices against
t, mediumistic communications will come to share it. But it is all
1- terribly personal and subjective, and experience shows that it leaves
e most plain men and scientists comj3letely unmoved.
For such reasons as these I believe that experiments in psychical
a research which are capable of precise statistical treatment are of the
r utmost importance. I do not think that we shall ever get orthodox
3 experimental psychologists to attend to our work unless and until
1 we can produce results of this kind. We must remember that
1 experimental psychology is very much in the position of a woman
e with a shady past who has at length, after a hard struggle, settled
!
I
down to a respectable life and got on visiting terms with the doctor’s,
1 the solicitor’s, the vicar’s, and even the squire’s wife. (The scientific
t equivalent of this apotheosis is being admitted to form a section at
! the British Association.) She is fanatically determined to keep her
i
hard-won respectability unsullied by the slightest breath of scandal.
'
Physics, which has been honoured for centuries, can afford, like the
scion of some noble house, to throw her cap over the mills ;
but poor
dear psychology feels that she dare not take risks. Now the work
of contemporary orthodox experimental psychologists is very
largely statistical, as anyone can see who looks at their journals.
Since this ground is so very familiar to them, there is a hope that a
few of those extremely shy birds may be tempted to hop over the
wall which separates them from us, if we can offer them some
statistical crumbs, of unimpeachable wholesomeness, to peck at.
They certainly ought to be investigating the problems which interest
us, instead of ignoring them or unhelpfully nagging at us for the
crudity and amateurishness of the methods which we have to use
28 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
in default of their advice and assistance. But I am sure that they
will continue to neglect that duty until we can bring to their notice
properly conducted researches of a statistical kind, such as those of
Mr Whately Carington and Mr Soak
There are two remarks of an historical kind which it may be worth
while to make before we leave generalities. The first is this. Some
readers may be tempted to complain that such researches as these
can at best lead only to trivial and pedestrian results. What inter-
ests them, and what induced them to join the S.P.R., was the hope
of finding answers to questions of fundamental human importance,
such as the survival or extinction of the individual and the destiny
of the race. Investigation of trance-mediumship, they will say, has
at least a chance of throwing light on these important questions ;
but these experiments on drawing jiictures and guessing cards are at
best difficiles nugae.
I tlihik that the history of science shows tins attitude to be
entirely mistaken. It is precisely the attitude against which
Galileo, Descartes, Bacon, and other great men who assisted at the
birth of modern science, constantly and energetically protested.
What could seem more trivial than Galileo dropping balls down
inclined planes and noting the times of their descent? Yet those
experiments are the basis of the science of dynamics, and without
them Newton s all-embracing theory of the planetary system would
have been impossible. Similarly, if we could establish the fact and
disentangle the laws of extra-sensory perception by experiments on
ordinary persons in artificially simplihed situations, we might hope
eventually to form comprehensive and satisfactory theories about
mediumistic communications. But, if we insist on dehvering blind
frontal attacks on unanalysed problems of immense complexity, we
are likely to share the fate of the scholastic physicists.
The second point is this. Any science starts by consisting mainly
of natural history ”. If it develops, the proportion of natural
history becomes smaller and the proportion of theory and deduction
becomes greater. As this happens, the science grows more technical,
and it becomes more and more difficult for the interested amateur
to contribute anything of value to it, or even to understand the
contributions of experts. Just contrast, e.g., the early meetings
and the early Transactions of the Royal Society with those of the
jiresent day. If we may compare small things with great, we must
expect that something of this kind will hajijien with the S.P.R.
unless it be engaged on a wild-goose chase. Undoubtedly there is
still an immense held for natural history ” in our subject, and for
many years to come the intelligent ami curious amateur will be able
162]
Introduction 29
to make most valuable factual contributions to psychical research.
But already, in my opinion, the investigation of alleged physical
phenomena in the seance-room has ceased to be a job for anyone
but a trained specialist with an elaborate knowledge of electrical and
photographic technique. I am equally convinced that we have now
reached a stage in the study of para-normal cognition under experi-
mental conditions at which statistical methods must be constantly
and increasingly used. Members of the S.P.R. would do well to recon-
cile themselves to this inevitable tendency, and to prepare them-
selves for it by making that quite moderate study of the elements
of statistics which would enable them to follow intelligently the
reasoning contained in such papers as Mr Whately Carington's and
Mr Soaks. They would find that the effort was rewarded, not only
in connexion with psychical research, l)ut also in the many other
departments of life in which statistical concepts and methods are
now appfied.
I hope that I have now shown adequate cause why the two papers
which follow should not be ignored off-hand on the general ground
that they contain a good deal of statistics and that the results which
they establish make h'ttle direct appeal to our higher emotions and
aspirations. It remains for me to state some positive reasons why
they deserve to be read with special care and attention.
In the first place, both sets of experiments have been conducted
with a degree of care and thoroughness which has probably not been
equalled and has certainly not been surpassed in any previous work
on the subject. The writers have been at pains to exclude every
possible kind of normal “ leakage ”. They have stated exactly what
precautions they took, and have given so clear and full an account
of the conditions under which the experiments were performed that
anyone who chooses can repeat them exactly. A critic who wishes
to show that there was opportunity for normal leakage will have to
indicate some specific defect in some recorded detail of the tech-
nique ;
he will not be able to base his criticisms (as in many cases he
quite justifiably can) on the negative ground that “ we are not told
whether the percipient had such and such chances of acquiring know-
ledge normally ”. There may have been other experiments on para-
normal cognition in which the conditions were in fact as rigid as
they were in these ;
but I do not think that there have been any
in which we know them to have been so rigid as we know them to have
been here.
It is important to notice that Mr Whately Carington has devised
a kind of experiment which ought to give positive results, if repeated,
in a fair proportion of the repetitions. Of course something may
30 Professor G. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
depend on the mental attitude of the agent or transmitter, but'
there should be no insuperable difficulty in finding suitable agents
who are sufficiently interested and sympathetic. To have achieved
this result is a real step forward. Provided that later reflexion and
discussion do not reveal unforeseen sources of error, Mr Carington
has (probably for the first tune m the history of the subject) produced
a repeatable experiment.
Secondly, it is most unlikely that there is any flaw in the statistical
technique. Objections on this ground have been brought by certain
statistical pundits in America against Dr Ehine’s results, though Mr
Soal and Dr Thouless have shown that these objections are in the
mam captious and nugatory. In the present case it is doubtful
whether even the most captious statistical critic can have much to
say. in Mr Soaks experiments the statistical problem is perfectly
sinijile and straightforward, and it does not differ essentially from
that of Dr Rhine’s experiments. By carefully randomising the
cards in the way which he describes,' and by using Mr Stevens’s
formula, which allows for the actual preferences of the guessers
among the five kinds of Zener cards, Mr Soal has obviated the only
criticisms on Dr Rhine’s statistical assumptions which ever had any
substance.
A careless reader, on a first hasty reading, might be inclined to
think that Mr Whately Carington’s “ method of palpable hits ” is
open to criticism because it makes use of the opinion of a certain
individual judge as to whether such and such a drawing does or
does iiot resemble such and such an original enough to be counted
as a^ palpable hit ” on the latter. This criticism is fallacious, as
Mr Caiington has most carefully, lucidly, and conclusively shown in
his pajier. I will not discuss the matter further here, because I have
tried to explain the statistical situation by means of an analogy
which Mr Carington has embodied in an appendix. It will suffice to
say that, if there be any statistical fallacy in Mr Whately Carington’s
paper, it has eluded, not only myself (a very feeble defence), and not
only Dr Thouless and Mr Gatty (who have constantly to use and to
apjiraise statistical reasoning in the course of their psychological and
biological work), but also Dr Irwin, who is an expert professional
statistician.
A third merit of these experiments is that we know that we have
all the results, good, bad, and mdifterent, before us. There is no
room for the suspicion which attaches, rightly or wrongly, to some
long series of experiments on para-normal cognition, viz. that the
experimenter began to record his results only after they began to be
exciting, that he stopped recording them when they ceased to be so.
162]
Introduction 31
I
and that he discarded results which were got when the subject was
“ off-colour
'
The fourth reason for attending carefully to these two sets of
experiments is that they led to positive results of a high degree of
|; statistical significance. Consider, e.g., Mr AVhately Carington’s
answer to the question whether or not his percipients tend, to a
i
significant extent, to score relatively more hits on the originals of
1 the experiment in which they are engaged than they do on those of
,
experiments in which they are not engaged. He finds, on the most
! conservative method of scoring, that the actual deviation from the
most probable number of successes on the hypothesis of chance is
positive and is 3-572 times the standard deviation. What precisely
I does this mean? Suppose we compare the whole of Mr Carington’s
;
material in all these experiments to a single “ deal ” or “ throw ” in
I a game of chance which is fairly played with properly constructed
apparatus. Suppose we imagine a similar set of experiments to be
i, repeated, with the same amount of material on each occasion ;
'
and suppose we compare each such repetition to a new “ deal
”
J
or “ throw ” in the same game of chance. Suppose that the positive
results which Mr Carington actually got were like some big chance
.1
deviation from the normal in a single deal, e.g. holding 10 or more
I,
hearts in a fairly dealt bridge hand. Then one could not reasonably
expect to get so great a deviation more than once in 1000 such
I
“ deals ”, i.e. in 1000 repetitions of such an experiment as is here
i' described.
Now take, e.g., Mr Soaks figures for the successes scored by his
subject Mrs S. on the actual card, the one inunediately before it, and
the one immediately after it. The divergences of these from the
most probable numbers were all positive, and were respectively
2-627, 3-309, and 4-164 times the relevant standard deviations.
The meaning of these statements can be interpreted as above. The
I actual numbers concerned will be different ;
in the first case some-
‘
what less than 1000, and in the third case very much more than
1000, repetitions of the experiment would be needed before it would
be reasonable to expect so great a deviation. Moreover we have to
i
take into account the further fact that all these large deviations are
positive, whereas in a game of chance, they might just as well have
been negative ;
and that they are clustered about the card actually
I
aimed at by the percipient.
i I will now say something about the connexions and the dis-
connexions between the two papers. The two investigations began
and contmued for a long time in complete independence of each
other. Mr Soal worked for five years with Zener cards and individual
32 Professor C. I). Broad, Litt.D. [part
}
ercij^ients in London. Mr \\ Lately Carington has been working
for about a year and a lialf with drawings and groups of percipients.
The drawings have been exhiliited in Cambridge, the groups of per-
cipients have been in various places. It was not until November
1939 that the two sets of experiments converged. Mr Carington had
found a highly significant degree of post-cognitive and pre-cognitive
success among his subjects, and he suggested to Mr Soal that the
latter should look through his results and compare the guesses made
by his subjects with the cards exposed immediately before and
immediately after the card at which the guess was deliberately
aimed. The remarkable outcome of this comparison, in the case of
two of his subjects, forms the content of Part II of Mr Soaks paper.
It certainly adds to the dramatic interest of these two investigations
that a suggestion, based on the results of one of them, should have
revealed that the other had led to a highly significant positive result
which would otherwise have been overlooked.
The following two points of difference should be noted, (i) Mr
Whately Carington is led by his experiments to conclude that the
power of para-normal cognition is tvidely distrtbuted but iiery iveak,
so far as concerns the subjects whom he has tested and the tasks
wliich he has assigned to them. Among Mr Soaks subjects, who are
engaged in a very different kind of activity, the situation seems to be
quite different. U hen the scores were re-investigated for signs of
pre-cognitive and ]iost-cognitive knowledge only two of his subjects
were found to have shown it to any appreciable extent. These two
seem to possess it strongly ;
and they are also outstanding, at any
rate in their earlier scores, at guessing contemporarily exposed cards.
(M e must not, at this stage, ignore the possibility that, if the guesses
made by the other siilijects were tested for successes on more
remote cards than the three central ones, they might be found to
have scored significantly.) (ii) As Mr Soal has pointed out, the
guesses wliich he has called “ pre-cognitive ” need not have been
so in the sense of involving present knowledge of a future event.
The cards which will be turned up after a given guess has been
made already exist and are already on the table covered up by other
cards. If the subject can clairvoyantly cognise cards which have
not yet been exposed in the course of the experiment but are already
in the pack, he will be able to make guesses which are “ pre-
cognitive ” in the sense required by Mr Soaks results. Now this is
not so with the pre-cognitive knowledge which appears to be
manifested in Mr \\ Lately Carington’s exjieriments. This is know-
ledge of a drawing which has not yet been made, a drawing whose
subject has not yet been chosen.
Introduction 33
162 ]
In this connexion the two following remarks are worth making,
(i) Dr Thouless, who had done a number of experiments on guessing
Zener cards with students at Glasgow and had got entirely chance
results, was encouraged to look over his records for post-cognitive
and pre-cognitive successes. He found that there was no trace in
them of significantly non-chance scores. This is exactly what Mr
Soal would have found if he had not been lucky enough to include
among his 160 subjects those two white blackbirds Mrs S. and Mr B.
S. (ii) Mr Soal found no significant evidence for pure clairvoyance,
either of the card at which the subject was aiming or of cards which
came immediately above or below it in the pack, in the experiments
which were specially directed to this question. He has not as yet
had time to make elaborate counts for more remotely displaced
successes. Of course it is possible that Mrs S. and Mr B. S. would
have been exceptions, for in fact they tried only undifferentiated
extra-sensory perception. If we suppose that they would have
failed at pure clairvoyance, as did all the subjects who tried it,
we shall have to hold that their pre-cognitive successes really did
involve foreseeing what the agent was going to see when he after-
wards turned up the next card, and that they did not just clair-
voyantly perceive that card while it was still lying covered on the
table. In that case their pre-cognitive results would be in line with
those of Mr Whately Carington’s subjects.
EXPERIMENTS ON THE PARANORMAL COGNITION
OF DRAAVINGS
I. Experiments I to IVb
By AATiately Carington, M.A., M.Sc.
General Abstract 35
I. Introductory -
33
II. Experimental Procedure ------ 42
III. Methods op Assessment :
1. General 03
2. The Method of Forced Matching - - - . 0g
3. The Method of Decimal Scoring - - - - 74
4. The Method of Palpable Hits - - . . 79
IV. Results :
A. Main Results -
97
B. Displacement jqq
V. Results of Control Marking - - - - - 111
VI. Anticipation of Criticism 715
VII. Summary and Conclusion -
228
Examples I and II 232
Tables I and II 234
Figures I and II 236
Appendix I ; Instructions to Percipients of Experiment I - 137
j) II ; Results of the Method of Forced Matching - 138
j) III • Results of the Method of Decimal Scoring - 139
„ IV : Instructions to Judge for Method of Palpable
Hits : Notes on first 50 Originals - - 142
’> F ; Two Notes on the Statistical Methods used - 147
34
GENERAL ABSTRACT ; Five experiments (Nos. I to IV B) have
been carried out, using simple drawings as test material. About
250 percipients took part. In no case was any percipient in the same
room with the drawing he was required to reproduce, and careful
precautions were taken to prevent knowledge being obtained by
sensory means or by rational inference. Marking was done by an
independent judge, who was not given sufficient information to
enable him to produce a spurious positive result.
It was found that percipients tended, to a highly significant extent,
to score relatively more ‘
hits ’
on the drawings (originals) used in
their own experiment than on those used in other experiments.
It was also found that hits were not by any means always scored
on the occasions on which the originals to which they referred were
displayed, but tended to be displaced to an earlier or later occasion.
Both these tendencies appear to be significant, indicating the
occurrence of precognitive and retrocognitive effects.
A control scoring of the same drawings against a set of randomised
‘
dummy ’
originals gave nuU results.
SECTION I
Introductory
1 . Genesis of the Experiments : The experiments described below
arose almost inevitably oiit of my re-examination of various earlier
researches, which I described in a Paper read to the Society in
June 1938, and was summarised in the Journal for December of that
year. These studies convinced me that, despite the machinations
of the malevolent hoodoo which apparently dominates the subject,
the case for supposing that significant and genuine positive results
had been obtained in the past from experiments of this kind was very
strong. On the other hand, there seemed to be a general rule that
the more carefully experiments were carried out, the less ‘
successfid
’
they were likely to be. Still, if the main conclusion were correct,
there should be no reason inherent in the nature of the phenomena
why, given a modicum of good fortune, results satisfying the
necessary criteria should not be obtained again.
I accordingly decided to undertake as soon as practicable a new
series of experiments which shoidd at least be free from the weak-
nesses noted by myself and others in earlier work, and to press the
attack home to a point at which it would be possible to give a
definite answer one way or the other.
35
36 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
2. Objects ofthe Exj?ennmits and Choice of Technique : There are four
criteria to which any successful experiment in this field must conform
In approximate order of importance these are; (1) The conditions
must be rigid (2) The scoring must be unbiassed, (3) The results must
be statistically significant, (
4) The experiment must be repeatable ^
In all cases the general situation is essentially the same. That is
to say, someone or other is required to display knowledge of some
object or event, which he could not have obtained by normal sensory
means or by rational inference from normally perceived facts ;
the
accuracy or frequency of the knowledge is then assessed by some
method of marking, scoring, judging or the like ;
and finally an
estimate is made, l>y one means or another, of whether the extent
of the knowledge shown is greater than can reasonably be attributed
to chance or luck.
It IS evident that if the knowledge displayed could, by any
reasonable stretch of imagination, have been obtained by the normal
processes of perception and inference, the experiment has been just
so much waste of time, at least so far as establishing the reality of
the phenomena is concerned ;
for those who are unwilling to accept
them wil not unnaturally, maintain that a known cause, even if
^ unlikely, is to be preferred to an unknown. And it is
c iftcult to say at what point this attitude becomes unreasonable.
imilarly, if the process of assessment is in any way subject to the
prepossessions of the assessor, the results, though not necessarily
invalid, are bound to be suspect ; indeed, a very conscientious
J
_
ge might well bias the outcome against his own views, just as a
ishtul enthusiast might bias it in favour of them. It is in fact
essential that the judge should be as incapable of influencing the
outcome in either direction, however strong his prejudices, as the
percipients ot obtaining knowledge of the material by normal ineans.^
onseqiiently, although it would be an overstatement to say that
watertightness of conditions was the primary object of the experi-
ments, It was certainly my chief preoccupation, in the sense that
I was complete y determined from the start that, whatever else
might happen, there should be no room for argument as to whether
1 It might well be argued that, since the repeatable experiment is the very
foundation of science, the last criterion is the most important of all •
but the
Sisfied
does not arise till the other criteria have been
satisfied, so I make no excuse for putting it last.
inl?rcieT^-'’L1?isTff’
necessarily possible of attainment
in all cases tor it is often possible for a judge to ‘
sabotage ’
an experiment
hL ""^i
of. irrationality. Such extremes need not be considered
here ; for the remedy is simple-discard the judge-while, under a nroner
procedure it is never possible for a judge to generate a falsely significant Effect.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Di’awings 37
the percipients could have obtained by normal means any knowledge
of the material they might display. It has all too often happened
that someone has carried out experiments with an enthusiasm and
diligence amounting to devotion, and has obtained results which he
reasonably believed to be convincing, only to have some critic point
out that there might have been a leakage of information through
some normal, if unlikely, channel which he had omitted to block.
I viewed with great distaste the prospect of having months of work
nullified in some such way as this, and with not less the alternative
of being dragged into interminable and inconclusive arguments as to
whether the observed results might or might not be due to involun-
tary whispering, olfactory h}TDeraesthesia, the subconscious inter-
pretation of subaudible pencil scratchings, the purloining of cards
by corrupted housemaids, and all the rest of it.
I accordingly laid it down as a first principle that, until after
a percipient had done his work and had duly handed in his efforts,
he should in no case be in the same room with the material he was
required to ‘ guess ’. In the experiments here discussed this
condition has been rigidly adhered to throughout. With the
exception of the second experiment, q.v., no percipient, to the best
of my knowledge and belief, has so much as been in the same building
during the preparation or use of any of the material ;
and even in
the ‘
Individual Experiments which are not discussed here but
may be reported later, percipients never entered the experimenter’s
room, or even that adjoining it, until after the experiment was over.
I was well aware that, in insisting on this extreme rigidity of
conditions, I should, in the opinion of some students, be running
the risk of inhibiting altogether the effects I was interested in
establishing. But against this two considerations weighed. In
the first place, the whole contextual evidence of the sul^ject suggests
that such factors as distance and brick walls are no impediment to
the occurrence of the phenomena in question, if they are going to
occur at all ;
in the second, I think I would much prefer to do a
null-resulting experiment under rigid conditions than one which
yielded exciting results under conditions which were sloppy—one
would not merely have the satisfaction of knowing that one had
done the job properly, but might fairly hope to be spared the
indignities of controversial disputation.
Having settled this point, two further decisions had to be made,
namely as to the type of percipient and the kind of material to be used.
As regards the first, beggars cannot be choosers ;
but there is
always the question of whether to attempt to find and concentrate
on a few specially gifted performers, or to rely on the ‘
random
38 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
likely to be met with in the course of mass exireriments.
Ihe first plan has obvious labour-saving potentialities and may well
prove the best when it comes to examining the effect of particular
changes of conditions, etc., after the reality of the phenomena has
been established, always assuming that specially gifted performers
exist ,
but at the present stage, when that reality is still gravely in
question, I have no doubt at all that the second is not only preferable
)ut almost obligatory. Certainly from the point of view of repeat-
ability there can be no two opinions about it ;
for history indicates
that so soon as an investigator has obtained magnificently successful
results from some specially gifted sensitive, she either developes
moral scruples or some similarly fell disease, or ‘
disappears into the
Middle W est ’, or gets married, or just loses her powers, and we are
eft to sjieculate as to whether the results were genuine or whether,
after all, the experimenter had left some loophole unguarded. It
t erefore seemed to me that, if I could get significant results from
inore or less randomly selected people under rigid conditions, I should
lie putting the phenomena on a very much wider and firmer basis
than by obtaining perhaps more spectacular performances from one
or two special sensitives who might easily become inaccessible for
future work. It will be seen from what follows that at the time of
writing (Dec., 1939) about 250 different percipients have taken part
m the experiments, none of them having, so far as I am aware, any
special antecedent claims to being abnormally ‘
psychic ’.
As regards the second question, the decision is not so easy to
make. Broadly, the choice is between ‘
restricted ’
and ‘
free
’
types of material. In the first case the percipient knows in advance
that the object he is required to ‘
guess ’
will be one of a limited
range such as a two figure number, or a card from a particular sort
of pack m the second, the problem is more in the nature of ‘
What? ’
t an of A\hich? ,
for he may be asked to record his impressions of
what IS in the experimenter’s mind, or what is the subject matter of
a book or a drawing, which leaves a field of almost boundless extent
open to him.
It goes without saying that the restricted type of material is, on
the face of it, very much the easier to deal with from the point of
view of assessment ;
in fact relatively few attempts have been made
to treat free material m a quantitative manner at all.i But this seems
to be 111 reality something of a delusion, for the method of assessment
described below appears to be, in some respects, actually easier to ap-
])fy tlian the very error-liable scoring of successes with cards or the like.
1 But see such contributions as J. G. Pratt, Jour. Paravsu. I,
[•
Saltraarsh and Soal, Proc. S.P.R., XXXIX, p. 260 seq.
4, p. 248 seq..
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 39
As a matter of fact, my first intention was to use standard 5x5
packs of Zener cards. I had the idea of placing ten such shuffled
packs face downwards on some suitable shelf in my study every
evening, asking my percipients, working in their own homes, to
guess all ten ‘
down through ’
for, say, ten successive evenings in
each case, and to go on doing this until either a statistically signi-
ficant overall result emerged or we all gave up in despair.
Fortunately, however, it was strongly represented to me (as,
indeed, I had realised for myself ) that this would be a procedure
singularly lacking in human interest—in fact, about as tedious as
could be devised ;
whereas it is not unreasonable to suppose that,
if such phenomena occur at all, they may well be to some consider-
able extent influenced by the degree of interest, emotion or the like
associated with the material used. I was accordingly very ready
to adopt the view that it would be better to use a type of material a
trifle livelier than the somewhat arid austerity of Dr Zener’s
symbols.
The use of drawings in one form or another at once suggested
itself, partly on account of the considerable degree of success which,
by inspection and assuming conditions to have been as rigid as
described, appears to have attended many attempts on these linesd
partly because I felt that, in any event, a good deal more fun would
be had by all than with the dreary task of guessing and scoring
cards ;
while, if the worst were to come to the very worst, I should
at least salvage from failure a good collection of free drawings which
could hardly fail to be of some general psychological interest.
Moreover, this sort of material promised to allow subjects a degree
of latitude impossible with the restricted type, and this might, it
seemed to me, prove of decisive importance in enabling any real
effect there might be to show itself. It might well happen, I
reflected, that, with many people if not with all, an impression might
have difficulty in reaching consciousness in its original and un-
distorted form but might readily appear in a disguised or symbohc
shape. If this were so, it would presumably lead to null results
in the case of cards, particularly perhaps Zener cards with which
guesses cannot be partially right, whereas with drawings some
element might be recognisable, or the reproduction might represent
something more or less closely associated with the original ;
thus,
given a method of assessment which could take account of such
modifications without abandoning impartiality, it might be possible
to detect genuine cognitions which would otherwise escape
notice.
^ E.g. jVIr and IVIrs Upton Sinclair, Warcollier, and others.
40 Whately Garington, M.A., M.8c. [pabt
Finally,
the decision to insist on the utmost severity of conditions
as regards the possibility of ‘
leakage by not having the percipients
on the premises at all, in most cases, enabled me to introduce what
I believe may have been a valuable relaxation by allowing them to
make their attempts in the familiar surroundings of their own
homes, instead of coming to a laboratory or to a stranger’s house,
and to do so, within fairly wide limits, whenever they felt most
inclined.
Thus the final plan, which was followed in all experiments except
the second {q.v.), may be summarised as follows :
Each experiment lasted ten nights ;
on each night a fresh drawing,
made by either myself or my wife, was put up at 7.0 p.m. in my
suitably curtained, etc., study, and left there till 9.30 a.ni. the next
morning ;
the subjects of the drawings were determined immediately
liefore their production by a substantially random method ;
the
percipients were allowed to make their attempts at ‘
reproduction
’
wherever they happened to be and at any convenient time within
the indicated limits.
This procedure, which appears to combine the maximum of
freedom for the percipient with the utmost rigidity of experimental
conditions has yielded results which I cannot regard as other than
extremely satisfactory.
3. Arrangement of Discussion : In dealing with these experiments,
I shall first give, in the next main Section, a detailed account of the
experimental procedure with especial reference to the precautions
taken to ensure that no knowledge of the drawings could be ob-
tained by normal means. In Section III, I shall discuss the question
of assessment generally, and shall describe the three methods, of
which the first two were abandoned after trial, which were actually
used. In Section IV, I shall first present the results of the Main
Calculations, by which the success or otherwise of the experiments
must be chiefly judged ;
and shall then go on to discuss such other
points of interest and importance as have been investigated at the
time of writing (Dec. 1939). In Section V, I shall give some account
of a kind of dummy experiment intended to serve as a control of
the outcome of the experiments proper. Next, I propose to try to
save time and trouble all round by anticipating some of the more
obvious criticisms ;
and I shall conclude by discussing in a tentative
manner the conclusions which it seems legitimate to draw from the
results so far obtained.
4. Two categorical Statements : Remembering how often I have
been distressed by the omission of other workers to give essential
facts, and the allegations of improper selection that have not
62] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 41
infrequently been made against them, I wish to make the two
categorical affirmations following ;
A. The whole of the work of all the percipients who took part
in Experiments I to IV B here discussed has been included, except
(a) two sets eliminated by Dr Thouless from Expt. I because they
contained clues which might have been helpful to the judge, and
(b) the masterpieces of two persons who sent in ten completely blank
sheets each in Expt. IV. As none of my original drawings was
intended to represent the Bellman’s Chart, I had no scruples about
consigning these, unhonoured and unsung, to my wastepaper
basket. The Private Experiments, not reported here, consisted of
eight ten-drawing tests, each conducted in a single evening, with
five percipients selected on account of their success in one or other
of the main experiments. My wife (six times) and I (twice) also
acted as percipients in these, as a matter of interest, and the results
will be discussed in due course. In addition, a fortuitous visitor
was on one occasion invited to participate ; but his results will not
be counted. Thus we have a maximum of 170 drawings not here
discussed, as compared with 2,193 which are. This is a negligible
proportion anyway ;
but as a matter of fact, the 170 are, by
inspection,^ quite up to the general standard, if not better.
B. To the best of my knowledge and belief (and, as will be seen,
it would be very strange if I were in error) only two persons other
than my wife and myself have ever entered my study while an
original drawing was displayed. One was the occupant of the
flat below ;
he was present for only a few seconds and declares
(I have no doubt correctly) that he did not notice the drawing at all.
The other was the lady who attends to our domestic needs ;
she, on
two occasions during Expt. IV, came into the room before I had
taken the drawing down in the morning. It is not, of course,
mathematically excluded from possibility that she may represent
an extensive system of espionage, and some people would have us
beheve scarcely less fantastic propositions ;
but I do not think the
suggestion need be taken very seriously.
5. Acknoioledgements : The reader will soon see for himself how
deep and extensive is my indebtedness to others. I believe that I
have duly acknowledged (in the appropriate passages of the text)
the many particular acts of help received ;
if anywhere I have
inadvertently omitted to do so, I can only extend here my regretful
apologies to whoever may have been so neglected.
But in addition to these specific acknowledgements, I must
1
1.e. without applying formal tests of significance. The words ‘
by ui-
spection ’
are used in this sense throughout.
c
42 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [PART^
express my more general though not less sincere gratitude to the|
members of the Cambridge Committee, Professor Broad, Dr Thouless'
and Mr Oliver Gatty, who have aided, abetted and supervised my
lal)ours ;
to the first named in particular I am especially indebted,
not merely for the several long and tedious tasks he has undertaken,
but for much personal as well as ofhcial encouragement and support.
I am also very deeply obliged to Dr J. 0. Irwin, who kindly con-
sented to join the Committee in October, 1939, for invaluable
guidance and help, which it has been impossilde adequately to
acknowledge in the text, in the matter of statistical treatment. I
am also much indebted to Dr E. J. Dingwall, not only for constant
and stimulating criticism, but for moral support and practical help
at many stages of the work. To Mr M. T. Hindson, whose per-
spicacious judging has been a factor of prime inq^ortance in the
success of the work, I must pay a very special tribute, and similar
acknowledgements are due to Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, who undertook
the equally laborious task of ‘
control marking ’.
Last, but scarcely least, my thanks are due to the percipients,
witliout whose disinterested co-operation nothing could have been
done at all. Theirs has been the somewhat thankless task of doing
a not very interesting job for the benefit of someone whom they
usually had never so much as heard of, and without even having,
in most cases, the trifling satisfaction of knowing what degree of
success had attended their efforts. 1 hope that any of them who
may read this wall realise that it has been quite impracticable to
render individual reports, or evezi thanks, except in a very few special
cases, but that their good offices have been none the less appreciated.
SECTION II
Experimental Procedure
Preliminary : I have found it a good deal more difficult to write
this Section in anything like a coherent form than might be expected.
It is of course easy enough to describe factually what I did, and
what precautions I took to avoid this pitfall or that ;
but it is not
nearly so easy to make clear why I did it, without entering upon
a variety of clipessions which are now irrelevant and out of date.
The trouble is that, in order to keep things moving at a reasonable
speed, it has usually been necessary to plan experiments in advance
before the outcome of those already performed was fully known or
adequately digested. If I had not done this, which involved a
certain amount of would-be intelligent anticipation, I should pro-
162] Exjiervments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 43
bably still be trying to squeeze the last drop of juice from Expt. I,
and still not quite sure that there was any juice to squeeze.
On the other hand, the procedure had the drawback that probably
no experiment would have been planned quite as I did plan it, if I
had known at the time what I knew later. Consequently, although
certain features, notably that of preserving completely watertight
conditions, are common to all, the policy behind them has had to be
to some extent modified as the work progressed and as the nature of
what appeared to be happening was more fully appreciated.
In particular, I originally intended to assess my results by the
method of matching the drawings made by the percipients in any
experiment against the originals used in that experiment. This
method, which is discussed at some length below, is based on the
assumption that if a percipient, as the result of a ‘ ])aranormal
’
cognitive process obtains a correct impression of an original which
he cannot see, he will do so (or at least is most likely to do so) on the
same occasion as that on which the said original is displayed. This
assumption is now known to be untrue, at any rate so far as the
material and percipients involved in these experiments are con-
cerned ;
but realisation of this was delayed by the fact that the first
ten sets of drawings examined were exceptional in showing a signi-
ficant positive result ^ when this method was used. Naturally
enough, therefore, the second and third ex])eriments were designed
primarily with a view to continuing with this technique ;
and Imth
parts of the fourth were arranged so as to permit of it, though the
experiment as a whole was intended to be based on a comparison
between the two parts, each taken en bloc, rather than on the
matching of drawings against originals within the parts.
In these circumstances, I have decided that the best plan will be
as follows : In the present section I shall describe the experiments,
mainly from the point of view of procedure and precautions against
leakage, adding only a few notes on the outcome by way of a kind
of running commentary. In Section III I shall deal with the three
methods of assessment which were tried out at different stages,
giving fairly full results for the first two, as a matter of interest.
Only after this shall I embark on a discussion of the results obtained
by the third method, which alone are submitted as positive evidence
for the occurrence of paranormal cognition.
Experiment I ; 1, General
:
So far as the points of procedure and
technique here considered are concerned, this first experiment is so
much the prototype of all others except the second that it will be
necessary and sufficient to describe it in detail, indicating only where
^ Cf. |). 72 Ijelow.
44 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
necessary the details in which Expts. Ill, IV A and IV B differ
from it.
The general procedure has already been outlined and may be
summarised as follows :
On each of ten successive evenings, beginning on that of Feb. 1st,
1939, a different simple drawing, made by either my wife or myself,
was exposed at 7.0 p.m. in my study (suitably curtained and
guarded) at 5 Idtzwilliam Road, Cambridge, and was left in position
till 9.30 a.m. the next morning. Percipients were asked to draw, in
books provided for the purpose and at any time within the period
of exposure convenient to themselves, the best ‘
reproduction ’
they
could manage of what they thought each drawing represented, or
(which probably came to much the same thing) whatever came into
their minds when they made the attempts.
Inasmuch as it was at this time intended to assess the degree
of success achieved by the method of Forced Matching^ it was
vitally important that the judge, in this case myself, should have
no normal knowledge of which drawing by any percipient was
intended to represent which original. Accordingly, the books were
hantled in by the percipients at the end of the experimental period
to Dr Thouless, who detached the sheets from them, assigned to each
sheet a suitable code ’
number, and shutHed them before passing
them to me.
Ihe results of the matching, which started by appearing very
promising Imt ended by giving no significant result, will be discussed
in the next Section. At present we are concerned only with those
points of experimental technique which are of fundamental import-
ance irrespective of what method of assessing the results is finally
used. The following details should be carefully noted and should
serve to make all clear.
2. Percipients Books and Instructions : Each percipient was
jirovided with a specially printed book consisting of a cover and ten
jiages measuring 13" by about 8|". These pages were perforated
about ;l from the left margin, so that when they were torn off at
the ]ierforation they were just foolscap size, viz. 13" x 8". Suitable
spaces were provided at the top of each sheet for the percipient’s
name, the hour of making the attemjff., the code number to be
inserted by Dr Thouless, and for notes by the percipient as to his
degree of confidence and the occurrence of visual imagery. Another
space for general notes and impressions was ruled off at the bottom,
leaving an area of about 7" x 8" for the actual drawing. The
ordinal number of each sheet was printed on it to the left of the
^ Cf. Section III, 2.
162] Experimenfs on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 45
I
perforations. Full instructions for the percipient were printed on
( the cover ;
these are reproduced in Appendix I. To guard against
1 the possibility that some percipients might press so heavily on the
paper as to indent the sheet below, and thus give some clue to the
:
order in which the attempts were made which would vitiate the
»
process of matching, a sheet of stiff card, about -5 mm. thick, was
provided with each book, and percipients were instructed to insert
this between the sheet they were using and the next. No such
indentations were in fact noticed, but I think the precaution was
worth taking.
3. Photograph of the ‘
setting ’ ; In order to give the percipients
I some idea of the setting of the experiment, and to form some kind
of a link between them and the location of the drawing to be repro-
duced, photographs were also distributed showing the relevant parts
of my study with a blank sheet of paper pinned in the position to
be occupied by the drawings in the course of the experiment. I am
much indebted to my friend Mrs Ramsey, of Ramsey and Muspratt,
for the trouble she took in this matter. In the later experiments it
^
was not always possible, owing to irregularities of supply, to ensure
that every percipient had a photograph to himself ;
but most had,
and I think there were very few, if any, who had no opportunity of
looking at one.
4. Percipients : A total of 37 percipients took part in this experi-
ment, and the number was made up as follows :
(a) The bulk of the group was formed by 27 students from Dr
Thouless’s lecture class, all of whom were training for the teaching
.
profession. Of these 19 were women and 8 were men, and their
ages ranged from about 22 to 25, though no exact data were sought
;
the other participants were appreciably older than this.
I am particularly obliged to Dr Thouless for setting the ball
'
rolling by obtaining the co-operation of these percipients, as well as
for undertaking the work of randomisation already mentioned.
(b) The S.P.R. was represented by Mr and Mrs Salter, Dr and
Mrs Thouless, Mr and Mrs Tyrrell, Professor Broad, and Dr E. J.
Dingwall.
(c) In addition, two ladies resident in Cambridge, friends of my
own, were induced to take part.
5. Production of the Originals : To determine the subject matter
of each drawing I opened a copy of Chambers’s Mathematical
Tables at random, noted the last digits of the first three or four
entries encountered,^ turned to the corresponding page of Webster’s
^ ‘
Three or four ’
because the terminal digits of the first four entries met
with might form a number greater than the number of pages in Webster.
46 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [PARTii
Dictionary, and took as the subject for the drawing the first reason-
ably drawable word found on or after that page.
Tliis method was by no means perfect ;
in particular, it led to >
the use of certain originals which I later came to regard as unsuitable
for the purpose, on account of their vagueness or unfaniiliarity.
But it served the purpose for which it was intended, namely that
of ensuring that no percipient could possibly forecast by rational
means wliat the nature of the drawing would be, and of guarding
against the effects of possible coincidental thinking prompted by
contemporary events.
In general, the drawings were made between 6.30 p.m. and 7.0
p.m. on the evening each was to be used ;
but on one occasion
(Feb. 9, 1939) the necessary absence of both my wife and myself ^
during the afternoon and evening led to the drawing being prepared
at about 1.30 p.m. The room was, of course, carefully curtained
and locked (see below) from that time onward.
6.
Nature of the Originals : The pages in Webster found by the
above described procedure and the words selected for illustration,
together with notes on the choosing, are given below :
1. p. 323 :
‘
Bracken sickness ’
was rejected, a Bracket,
illustrated in the dictionary, was drawn.
2. p. 2886 : The first word on the page is Water Ox or Water
Buffalo ;
a picture of a horned bovine animal (not conspicuously
of the genus Bnhalus) was drawn and labelled Buffallo (stc).
3. p. 385 : Various words such as Embalm, Embank, Embark,
Embarrass and Embassy were rejected, and an illustration of an
Embattled Fess (heraldic) was clrawn.
4. p. 1496 ; A considerable number of words such as Maniac,
and others beginning with Mani- were rejected ;
but Manicure
suggested hands, and a left Hand was drawn with fingers sjrread.
5. p. 632 : A great number of compound words beginning with
Cross was passed over, and an illustration of Cross Stitch was
copied.
6. p. 2811 : Vacillator, vacillatory, vacoa, and a number of words
beginning with Vacu- were rejected ;
the illustration given of a
Vacuum Bottle was judged too complicated for the purpose, and an
ordinary Bottle was drawn, with a label marked Vino, by way
of preserving the V.
7. p. 969 : Elite (Miss) and various words in Flit- were passed over.
Flittermouse was illustrated by a Bat with outstretched wings.
8. p. 1644 ; The first word was Net Blotch. H.S.C. decided to
illustrate a Net and, to make it more interesting, drew a sketch of
a man pulling a net with fish in it out of water.
^ Hereinafter referred to as H.S.C. and W.W.C., respectively, when con-
venient.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Draivings 47
(This subsequently proved to be a somewhat unfortunate
original, for opinion was considerably divided as to whether the
man, the fish, the waves, the net or the beach should be regarded
as the principal feature.)
9. p. 1519 : Two earlier pages were rejected as providing nothing
suitable. On this page, the illustration of a Meal Moth was
rejected as being too like the Bat already drawn, and finally an
illustration of a Meal Worm Beetle was approximately copied.
10. p. 97 : The word Anghok was the first suitable for representa-
tion, and a picture of an Anchor was drawn.
The drawings illustrating these words were drawn by W.W.C.
and H.S.C. alternately, the former starting with No._ 1. They were
done on sheets of white paper substantially identical ^with those
issued to the percipients and were of a size to fill the 7" x 8 ' space
more or less completely. All except the last were line drawings m
Indian ink made with a broad nib ;
in the case of the Anchor, the
outhnes were filled in with ink, thus producing the effect of a
silhouette 'with shaft and limbs about 10 mm. broad.
^
Whatever objections may be made either to the objects finally
selected or to the method of selecting them, and I have already said
that I do not consider either to have been ideal, I trust that all wall
agree that there was no possible means whereby the percipients
could possibly have inferred what the originals were, or even what
class of object they were most likely to represent. This is all that
matters from the evidential point of view,
and such questions as
whether the process of selection was truly random
^
in a strict
mathematical sense are irrelevant from tliis point of view.
Personally, I do not now consider the method to be a very good
one. I think it would be much better to use an artificial dictionary
consisting of words specially picked for their suitability, and to
apply, perhaps, a more convenient and more truly random method
in selecting from it. In Expt. VI, for example, which will be reported
later, I have used a list of 216 ‘
suitable ’
words, arranged m six
blocks, six rows and six columns, so tliat selection can be made y
throwing three dice.
As regards ‘
suitability ’
: Speaking quite provisionally and from
inspection only, I am now fairly sure that there is usually no
question at all of percipients in any sense copying the original ,
and
it seems as if it is the ‘
idea ’
rather than the form of the drawing
that is cognised—though admittedly the word ‘
idea ’
is unpleasantly
vague, ff this is so, then the first criterion of suitability is that the
idea should be reasonably familiar, for otherwise it will not be
recognised and cannot be reproduced ;
while the second, I thii
is that it should be unambiguous. But this is a digression.
48 Whately Carington, M.A., 31. Sc. [part
7. Location, etc., of the Originals
:
The room in which the originals ^
were exposed is a kind of stndy-hed-sitting-room on the first floor
of a lionse looking south over a relatively unfrequented road. There
are no houses immediately opposite, and the nearest that could be
said to ‘
overlook ’
the room is at a distance of, I suppose, about
half a mile. In addition to the ordinary defences of the house, the
outer door of which is always locked in winter, a Yale type lock was
specially fitted to the door of the study at the beginning of the
experimental period, and the keys did not leave the possession of
my wife and myself. The precaution was highly supererogatory,
but I made a practice of always locking the door whenever I left
the room for more than a very few minutes, and even after retiring
for the night. The chance of anyone making an unauthorised entry
during any period of exposure may be regarded as completely
negligible.
llie curtains with which the room is normally provided are
sufliciently opaque, as I have tested by careful observation, to
prevent anyone seeing from the road outside so much as whether
there is a sheet of paper in the position where the originals were
placed— let alone distinguishing any design there might be on it.
As a further precaution, however, an additional thickness of fairly
heavy rep was drawing-pinned over the lower half of the window,
through which alone a glimpse of the drawing might be supposed
to be obtained, during the exposure periods. This was always put
in position, and the ordinary curtains drawn and secured over it,
before the original was displayed.
Each original was pinned in turn to tlie centre of the top shelf of
a bookcase which stood against the wall to the west of the window ;
this brought the upper edge of the paper to a height of about 5' 8"
above the floor. The room was not prepared in any way, except by
taking down two or three portraits from the wall near the bookcase
and removing (subject to the one exception noted below) a calendar
which normally hung just below the position selected. ^ The
portraits were not removed for the later experiments, though the
calendar was.
In the case of this experiment only, intending percipients from
Dr Thouless’ class were invited to visit the room before the experi-
ment started ;
but only two did so.
It is not uninteresting to note that on one occasion I rehung this calendar
for reference during the day and inadvertently omitted to remove it in the
evening. On the night in question, and on no other, an excellent picture of
a calendar of the same general type and proportions as mine was drawn by
one of the percipients.
162]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 49
At the end of each exposure period, namely at 9.30 a.m. on the
morning after exposure, or a little later, I was careful to remove the
drawing and lock it away in a steel box before any ‘
outsider ’
had
access to the room or the curtains were drawn back. With the
trivial exceptions noted in the Introduction above, I can say with
complete confidence that no one except my wife and myself saw, or
could have seen, any of the originals during the course of the experi-
ment or before the great bulk of the books had been received by Dr
Thouless.i
Finally it may be just worth noting that the lights were not left on
in the study if no one was in it.
I need hardly say that both my wife and I were scrupulously
careful not to mention or hint at the nature of the originals to anyone
at all during the course of the experiment, or to make any remark
that mi ght give a clue to their nature. This was easy enough, for
we were not at that time acquainted with any of Dr Thouless
students, while our contacts with the other percipients were very
slight.
8. Concentration, etc. : No special effort was made by us to
‘
concentrate ’
on the originals during exposure, nor were any
instructions to this effect given to the percipients. But the original
for each evening woifid naturally be more or less in the minds of my
wife and myself, while the position selected ensured that I at least
would be fairly often reminded of it.
While on this topic, I may record the wholly provisional and
personal impression that attempts at ‘
concentration ’
by percipients
are likely to do more harm than good, except in so far as they denote
no more than trying to free the mind from thoughts of which the
origin can be identified. In the fourth experiment, for example,
more than one percipient reported in such terms as Complete
blank, even after fifteen minutes Intense Concentration .
9. Results : As I have already indicated, and shall be obliged to
emphasise almost ad nauseam later, significant positive results have
only been obtained by inter- as opposed to intra-experiment com-
parisons. These will be fully described and discussed in due course,
while some account of the results of the matching technique will be
given in the next Section. There is accordingly not very much to
be said here, particularly as we cannot say whether an experiment
^
The slight reservation implied in the last sentence is necessitated by the
fact that three sets of drawings came in very late, and a few people, not in
touch with the percipients concerned so far as I am aware, were shown the
originals before these sets arrived. I mention the point only for the sake of
meticulousness, for it certainly has no bearing on the results.
50 Whafely Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
of this tyj3e is successful or not, taken as a whole, until we have j
something to compare it with. But a few first impressions may be
'
worth recording, if only as a matter of historical interest.
Speaking personally, I shall not easily forget the thrill I received
when I opened the very first set of the first batch of randomised
drawings passed to me by Dr Thouless and found a fine sketch of a
Hand (Original No. 4) l)acked up by an unmistakeable Fisherman ,
and a kind of slender Jug, which were pretty good shots, in the
circumstances, at Net and Bottle respectively ;
and the next set
contained a iDattlemented archway, which was by no means bad for
Embattled Fess. Nor were these mere isolated examples, for
throughout the 37 sets of the experiment H.S.C. and I kept on
finding unmistakeable ‘
winners ’
of one kind and another, which
soon made us feel that there was something going on which ‘
mere
chance ’
woxdd be unlikely to account for. Of coiirse we knew very
well that these impressions were purely subjective, quite likely to
be due to wishful thinking, and in no sense evidential. It was only
a matter of personal judgement that made us think it unlilcely that
people would have drawn as many Hands, Cows (for Buffalo) and
so forth as we found, if there had l^een no Hand or Buffalo among
the originals ;
but it is perhaps just worth recording the fact that
our immediate reaction to the drawings, before we in any way
‘
knew the answer ’, was that the experiment had been very definitely
a success.^ This feeling was confirmed and enhanced when we
learned the result of our matching of the first ten sets ;
it dwindled
to little more than a conviction based on a belief in the soundness
of our own judgement as that result was gradually whittled away to
nullity l:iy the outcome of subsequent matchings ;
but it has been
more than justified l)y the application of the method of ‘
palpable
hits ’
and inter-experiment comparison.
Experiment H ; 1, General
:
At a very early stage of the
investigation it liad been suggested that percipients might be able to
match their drawings for themselves against the originals they were
intended to represent, or which had in some measure influenced
their production, a good deal better than any outsider could do.
This seemed reasonable enough, for it might very well happen that
the person who produced the drawing might recognise some element
in the original which had formed part of his inqires.sion, but had been
impertectly portrayed ;
or he might have personal associations,
unknown to the exjierimenter, which would lead him to connect one
of his drawings with an original in a way which no one else could do.
At this stage, it will be understood, we had no information as to which
drawing of any set was intended for which original.
162] Experiments on Pamnor)nal Cognition of Drawings 51
Since at this time (Feb. 1939) I was still proposing to rely on the
method of matching for the assessment of results, I was naturally
anxious to see whether this was the case.
It was accordingly arranged, by the courtesy of Professor Bart-
lett, to carry out an experiment on Feb. 11th, 1939, in the Cam-
bridge Psychological Laboratory, with the contemporary Part II
Psychology class. I am very particularly indebted to Mr Grindley
for organising this experiment, as well as to others mentioned below
for the parts they played.
2. Procedure : Although, in this experiment, the percipients were
in the same building as the experimenter during the production and
‘
exposure ’
of the drawings, the conditions were not less rigid than
those for the other experiments. The class, numbering 7 women
and 13 men,i was assembled in the practical class room on the second
floor of the building, and Professor Broad and Dr Banister kindly
consented to invigilate it. The originals were produced by me in a
small room on the ground floor and the opposite side of the building
(which, it may be noted, is unusually well insulated acoustically) and
were done under the supervision of Dr Rawdon Smith and IMr R. C’.
Oldfleld. Conimiinication between the two rooms was maintained
by Mr Grindley with the aid of a buzzer and telephone, and the
relevant corridors were patrolled by two of the laboratory assistants.
AVhen the time came for the originals to be taken upstairs to be
matched by the percipients, as explained below, this was done by
Mr J. C. W. Craik, who had not been in either room during the
progress of the experiment. Even Mr Grindley, who informed the
invigilators, and through them the percipients, when to start and
stop attempts to reproduce each original, was not actually in the
same room as myself but in a partitioned recess, and could not see
what I drew. So the possibility of leakage from experimenter to
percipients may be regarded as completely excluded.
Each percipient was supphed with a pad of ten 6" x 4 cards,
numbered 1 to 10. Each card had spaces in which the percipient
was to enter his name, the identifying letter of the original to which
he would eventually match his drawing, and the degree of confldence
of the matching.
I began by briefly explaining the nature of the experiment to the
class, and at once retired to the room downstairs in which the
originals were to be produced. Since at this time I had no idea of
what these originals would represent, it was impossible for me to
indicate their nature to the percipients, even inadvertently.
^This included one percipient who had taken part in the first experiment.
52 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
The subjects for the originals were determined as follows : A
set of cards, numbered 1 to 10, was randomised by Mr Oldfield and
Dr Rawdon Smith, using log tables, and were then inserted by Mr
Grindley, face downwards and in a haphazard manner, between the
pages of a copy of the Concise Oxford Dictionary, wliich was also
held face downwards. Care was taken to ensure that Mr Grindley
did not see between what pages the cards were inserted, and, as
already mentioned, he was not in a position to see what I was
drawing or had drawn until after I had finished all drawings. More-
over, to make assurance doubly sure, I was careful not to mention
the subject of any original aloud or to make any remarks concerning
it, though I occasionally wrote down some explanatory comment and
showed it silently to Dr Rawdon Smith.
To select the subjects for the various originals, I turned the
dictionary right way up, opened it successively at the cards numbered
1, 2, 3 . . . etc., and took the first reasonably drawable or ‘
illustrable’
word that came in each case.
The words found and drawings made to illustrate them were as
follows :
1. Spinning : I drew a Spinning Top.
2 Parnassus : Illustrated by a roughly outlined Mountain at
tJic toot of which was drawn a Greek Temple with iiillars, steps and
pediment.
3. Jennet or small Spanish Horse ; A Horse was drawn.
4. Exfoliate : I drew some Leaves.
o. Brim . Illustrated by a sort of Goblet or Chalice with a heavy
brnn or Ipi.
6. Shooting ; I thought of drawing a field gun on wheels, and
made a note to this effect on the liottom of the sheet ;
but finally
drew a Sporting Gun with indications of a puff of smoke.
7. Ancestor : Illustrated by an Old Man, with a bald head and
long beard, leaning on a stick.
8. PRA\yN : I drew as good a Prawn as I could, but it might
e(]ually well have been a shrimp.
4. Standard ; I tried to draw the Royal Standard, and produced
an unmistakeable flag ;
but the Lion rampant was more suggestive
ot a demented monkey.
10. Throne ; I drew a kind of wooden Arm-chair with upright
back and a very bad indication of a Crown on the top.
These originals were then randomised by Mr Grindley and Dr
awulon Smith, were lettered A to J for purposes of identification,
and were taken up to the class room by Mr Craik. They were there
pinned up in view of the percipients, who were asked to write on
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 53
each of their cards the letter of the original which they thought it
most closely resembled and to grade this assignment a, j3, or y,
according to the degree of confidence they felt in it. When they had
done this, they noted their matchings on a separate slip of paper and
handed in their pads to Professor Broad. Meanwhile, Dr Rawdon
Smith, Mr Oldfield, Mr Grindley and I remained incommunicados in
the downstairs room ;
but so soon as w^e had been informed, by
telephone, that all pads had been duly handed in, we went up and
the true order in which the originals had been produced was dis-
closed.
3. Results : From the point of view of assessment by matching,
and particularly as regards the question of whether the percipients
could match their own drawings better than an outsider could, this
experiment was a most discouraging failure ;
for the percipients
contrived to make only 17 correct matchings between them, which is
three below expectation.
^
On the other hand, when I come to view this experiment in retro-
spect, it is clear to me that it was of \dtal importance, and marked
the turning point of the whole investigation.
To start with, of course, I consoled myself for the apparent failure
by reflecting that the conditions under which the percipients—and,
indeed, the experimenter—worked were so dilferent from those ot
the first experiment as amply to account for any deterioration of
results. 2 In the first place, the elaborate precautions taken to
exclude leakage, admirable and necessary as they were, inevitably
produced an atmosphere of bustle and strain likely to be much
more inimical to success than that prevailing in percipients’
own homes ;
in the second, a number of persons forming a group
might not behave in the same way as they would if they were
functioning independently ;
in the third, there might be a big
difference between producing a drawing at one’s own time and
inclination, and doing it to order whether one felt like it or not
;
finally, whereas the trials of the first experiment were spaced at
intervals of a day, those of the second were separated by no
more than some five minutes. Any of these factors, or jrerhaps
others not enumerated, might easily be held to have militated
against success.
But as soon as I began to examine the drawings themselves at all
^ For slightly greater detail, see Appendix II, p. 138.
^ As it happened, the first ten sets of Expt. I, which gave a significant
result, were matched and the outcome was kno'wri, before the second experi-
ment was carried out ;
thus the drop to a null result appeared a sad contrast
to what had gone before.
54 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
closely, I received the impression that the appearance of failure was
illusory and due to the breakdown of the matching technique rather
than to the percipients not receiving satisfactory impressions. So
far as siqjerficial indications went, indeed, they seemed to have done
rather better than those of the first experiment. As a rough and
ready test, we find that they themselves assessed 31 drawings as
‘
alpha ’ grade resemblances to originals—an average of 1-5 per set
—which was confirmed by H.S.C. working independently, who
gave 30 ;
whereas, in the first experiment, H.S.C. and I working
together gave 39 ‘
alphas ’
in 37 sets, an average of only just
over 1-0 per set. Since the assignment of ‘
al])has ’
depends solely
on the ])ersonal opinion of the judge, this is far from being con-
clusive ;
but there is certainly a strong suggestion that, so far
as intrinsic resemblance to the originals was concerned, the per-
cipients of the second experiment were not inferior to those of the
first.
But there was very much more to it than that, for inspection left
little doubt that the drawings which ‘
caught the eye ’
as manifest
successes in the second experiment were not of objects commonly
drawn in the first, and vice versa. Among the second experiment
drawings, for example, was a really beautiful Spinning Top—almost
a point to point replica of my original—but there was nothing of the
kind in those of Expt. I. Again, there were some five or six guns of
sorts, or mention thereof, in the second experiment drawings, but
nothing at all definite in the first. Again, whereas the first experi-
ment drawings showed about as many hands and cows as there were
guns in those of tlie second, the latter produced no more than a
glove and a finger-nail in the one case and two cows in the
other.
1 am deliberately using indefinite language here, corresponding to
the qualitative impressions obtained from inspection ;
but the
conclusion was very strongly indicated that, if the order of the drawings
were ignored and the various sets considered as wholes regardless of
the positions oj their constituents, the drawings oj the second experiment
resembled the originals of the second experiment, which they were
intended to resemble, much 'more closely than they resembled the originals
oj the first experiment, which they were not intended to resemble ;
and
that the drawings of the first experiment resembled their own originals
much more closely than they did those of the second.
This was an enormous and vital step forward, though it took
me some little time to realise its full implications ;
for it
involved jettisoning altogether the natural assumption that suc-
cess would necessarily take the form of good resemblances being
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 55
produced synchronously ^ with the originals which they resemble.
If I had not performed this experiment and been impressed by the
Spinning Top and the relative profusion of ‘
Shootings coupled
with the paucity of Hands, and similar observations, I might well
i
have gone on for an indefinite period vainly trying to repeat the
i
remarkable ‘
flash in the pan ’
matching success obtained with the
first ten sets of the first experiment. ^ But as soon as I realised that
'
the basis of enquiry had to be shifted from comparisons within an
individual experiment to comparisons between different experiments,
progress became possible ;
and as soon as I began to study seriously
the displacement of drawings from their expected positions, results
of major importance began to emerge.
Experiment III ; 1, General
:
This was the smallest of the
‘
mass ’
experiments so far conducted and, as will be seen later,
conspicuously the least successful. Only eleven percipients (4
women, 7 men) took part. These were members of Mr 0. L. Zang-
will’s AVorkers Educational Association psychology class, to whom
he was so kind as to introduce me. I was glad to take an oppor-
tunity of having a few minutes’ talk with this class on the evening
'
before the experiment started, for I thought that the personal
contact so obtained might increase the chances of success ;
the results
suggest, however, that its effects, if any, were in the opposite sense.
2. Procedure : The procedure adopted was precisely that of the
first experiment, with the trifling exception that H.S.C. did the odd-
numbered drawings in this case, and I the even, instead of the other
way round. That is to say, ten originals were exposed in my study,
in the same position as before, from 7.0 p.m. till 9.30 the next
morning on each of ten successive evenings, starting with that of
Wednesday, March 8th.^ Exactly the same precautions as regards
curtains and door-locking were taken as before. The books used
were some that had been left over from the first experiment, so I
need not describe them again ;
and they carried, of course, the same
instructions of which only the dates needed alteration. At the end
of the experiment they were handed in to Mr Zangwill, who very
kindly carried out the necessary randomisation and numbering of
I the sheets before passing them on to me.
1 That is to say, within the same period of time as that during which the
. original concerned was displayed; or alternatively, showing a one to one
j' correspondence as to order with the original concerned,
j
2 Cf. pp. 72 below.
® In the interests of strict accuracy it may be noted that these periods of
exposure were twice interrupted for an hour or so while I carried out two
‘
individual ’
experiments. Percij)ients were warned not to make attempts
during the periods of these inteiTuptions.
6t) Whately Carmgton, M.A., M.Sc. [part
3. Originals : The originals were selected by precisely the same
process, using Chambers’s Tables and Webster’s Dictionary, as was
used in Expt. I. The subjects thus chosen and illustrated were :
1 Violin; 2. A Bird (supposed to be a ‘Corn Bunting’, but /
actually of a non-specific passerine appearance) ;
3. A Fish ;
4. Cleo- j
patra’s Needle ;
5. A Skull ;
6. The Planet Saturn ;
7. A )
Frog; 8. Fleur-de-Lys ;
9. Cotton Aphid (this was blacked in
by H.S.C.) ;
10. A pair of Spectacles.
4. Results : The matching was done by H.S.C. and myself,
jointly, as before. I had hoped that we might be able to repeat the
success of the early sets of the first experiment ;
but, as will be seen
on reference to p. 138, this hope was sharply disappointed.
None the less, the drawings sent in were far from lacking in J
interest. For example, there was one out and out success for the 1
Spectacles, whereas I had found only one pair of spectacles in the
57 sets of the first and second experiments and the 12 sets which,
up to this time, had been produced in the Individual experiments not
reported here. Again, the association between Saturn and Rings
is, in my mind at least, extraordinarily close ;
and in these 11 sets
there w'ere three instances of rings being drawn, though not on the
right day, two being of the jeweller’s variety and one a very solid-
looking annulus, as compared with only one—and that as a quite
secondary ornament on one of the Hands—in all other sets ;
that
is to say, rings w'ere about 19 times as frequent in these sets as in
those among the originals for which Saturn did not figure. Fur-
|
ther, there were three pyramids, which may be regarded as pretty |
closely associated to Cleopatra’s Needle, as compared with one
rather doubtful example in the other 59 sets mentioned. No one
knows better than I that this sort of thing is not coercive evidence ;
but it served to support to some extent the view to which the
outcome of the second experiment was leading me. I
In view of this, and of the fact tliat three of these percipients I
showed great promise (one was of outstanding interest) when subse-
quently tried out under the conditions of the Individual Experiments,
it is not at all easy to understand why this experiment should have
|
been so very unsuccessful, not only alisolutely but relatively as will
be seen in due course. So far as I can judge, the percipients were
above rather than below the average in intelligence and good will,
while my personal contact with them, if this be supposed potentially
deleterious, was scarcely greater than that with the class of Expt. II.
On the whole, while content to leave the point for the present as a
minor mystery, I am inclined to suspect over-conscientiousness
operating by way of a kind of ‘
reversed effort ’.
162] Experiments 07i Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 57
Experiment IV, A and B : 1. General
:
The results of these
first three experiments left certain quite clear and definite impres-
sions on my mind. These were, first, that although I was not yet
in a position to prove it formally, successes were being obtained
which could not plausibly be attributed to chance ;
second, that the
matching technique was no good for the purpose, because most of
the best ‘
hits ’
were made on the wrong occasion ;
third, that the
only way to bring out the effect I was sure was there was to adopt
some quantitative plan for comparing experiments as wholes, so as to
see whether there was, as seemed plainly visible to me, a significant
tendency for drawings to resemble their own rather than other originals,
when sets of the one and series of the other were considered as wholes.
I also had to face the difficulty, which is likely always to be
embarrassing, that I could not decently rely to an indefinite extent
on the good offices of other people for scoring results. I accordingly
planned a large scale experiment in two parts, A and B, each forming
as it were an experiment in itself, and arranged it in such a way that,
after suitable randomisation, I could score each set of drawings sent
in against both series of originals used, without knowing to which it
was supposed to correspond. The plan did not work very well,
because, although I used different percipients in the two parts (only
one worked in both), which I imagined would keep them satisfactorily
distinct, displacement appears to have taken place between the two
parts just about as freely as it had previously done within the
previous separate experiments, though the double experiment as a
whole was highly successful. But we shall consider all this in full
at a later stage and need say no more about it here.
2. Percipients : This experiment was on a very much bigger scale
than any that had preceded it. About 370 books were sent out to
various people whom I thought might be willing to participate, and
183 came back.^ These 183 percipients were made up as shown in
the following Table ;
Table 1
Part A
Group Women Men Total
1. Cambridge Students — 8 8
2. „ S.P.R. 7 3 10
3. ,,
Residents — 2 2
4. Edinburgh ,,
3 2 5
5. Dutch S.P.R. 34 34 68
6. Duke University Group - 6 6 12
Totals - 50 55 105
1 This is not counting the two books of ten blank sheets already referred to.
D
58 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
1
Part B
1. Cambridge Students 4 9 13
2. „ S.P.P. -
1 3 4
3. S.P.P. Members -
13 4 17
4. Edinburgh Students 12 14 26
5. ,, Pesidents 2 2 4
6. Dutch Spiritualists 2 12 14
Totals - . - 34 44 78
Grand Totals -
84 99 183
This table is probably somewhat inaccurate as regards the
distribution between Women and Men. This is because a con-
siderable number of percipients, despite explicit instructions,
omitted to write their full names on the cover of the book ;
conse-
C{uently,
as I had not asked them to state their sex in so many words,
I was often left in doubt on this j^oint. Provisionally, I have
counted all such delinquents as men, on the assumption—which has
at least the merit of gallantry—that no woman would be so negligent
as not to read the instructions.
My thanks are due to Dr Thouless in securing the participation of
most of the Cambridge Students, to Mr Fraser Nicol for the Edin-
burgh Ptesidents, and especially to Dr Mary Collins for the handsome
contribution of 26 Edinburgh Students.
The outstanding features are, of course, the splendid effort of the
Dutch participants, and the Duke University Group arranged by
Dr Phine. 1 am particularly grateful to Mr J. J. Poortman for the
immense amount of trouble he took over the Dutch S.P.P. perci-
pients, not merely in circularising his members and in translating
my instructions into Dutch, but in translating all the key words in
the Notes and Impressions ’
subjoined to the various drawings,
so that theie should be the minimum of difficulty m judging. I am
also much indebted to Mr H. Nout, of the Nederlandsch Spirituahs-
tiscli Genootschaqi, for analogous good offices in respect of his
Association.
3. Bools, etc. : The drawing books used in this experiment were
substantially identical in form and arrangement with those used in
Expt. I. A few trivial alterations were made in the instructions
with a view to extra clarity, but the only important difference lay 1
in shifting the spaces for Name and Age to the outer cover instead 1
of the inner sheets, so that I should have no clues from these sources
*
as to wdiether the book 1 was scoring was an ‘
A ’
or a ‘
B For the
same reason 1 resisted tlie temptation to use two different colours
for the covers, for I feared tliat in the jirocess of trimming or the like
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 59
particles of cover might be transferred to the pages and thus give an
indication of which kind of book it was.
4. Originals : The subjects for the originals were selected by the
same substantially random method as was used in the first and third
expermients. They were :
For Part .4:1. Dodo. 2. Flag (This was drawn as a hlach Flag
with a conspicuous white Latin Cross). 3. Castle (very ‘
schematic
and toyshop-like). 4. Moustache. 5. Stop-cock or water tap.
6. Butterfly. 7. Boot (The dictionary word was Shoe, but this
was illustrated by what is commonly known as a Boot in England,
so a Boot w-as drawm). 8. Fan. 9. Balance (A Chemical Balance
was drawn). 10. Scissors.
For Part B : 1. Tree (Illustrated by a solitary Tree of indeter-
minate species). 2. Fish-spear (Commonly known and thought
of as Trident). 3. Bench (A kind of Garden Seat was drawm).
4. Geissler Potash Bulbs (Commonly knowm as Bulbs, tout
court). 5. Hammer. 6. Ew’er, illustrated by a single-handed Jug
with a constricted neck. 7. Boat (The dictionary word was Ship,
illustrated by a drawing of a full-rigged Ship ;
but H.S.C., whose
turn it was, thought this too difficult to draw and drew a fore-and-
aft rigged sailing boat instead. This was shown in silhouette).
8. Windmill. 9. Arrow. lU. Shell (A more or less Whelk-like
Shell was drawn.)
These originals were drawn, as before, by W.W.C. and H.S.C. in
turn, the former starting, except that external circumstances made
it impossible for H.S.C. to take her turn on the sixth occasion ;
W.W.C. accordingly dre\v both Stop-cock and Butterfly, and
H.S.C. did Boot and Fan.
These twenty originals w'ere drawn and put up (from 7.0 p.m. till
9.30 a.m. as before) in two sequences of ten consecutive evenings
each, from Wednesclay, April 26th to Friday, May 5th, and W ednes-
day. May 10th, to Friday, May 19th, 1939, inclusive, respectively.
I hope I need hardly say, except as a matter of form, that the same
precautions w'ere maintained, as regards locking of doors and cur-
taining of window^s, as were used in the previous experiments.
5. Randomisation : Despite the failure of the Method of Direct
Matching used in Expts. 1, II and III, it was decided to persevere
with this, in the hope that H.S.C. or I might recapture her or my
initial virtuosity. It was accordingly necessary to effect a double
randomisation, first of the books themselves, so that I should
not be able to tell which was intended for A and which for B ;
and
second of the sheets in each book, as was done for the books of
Expts. I & III.
60 Whately Garington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
I
This very considerable labour was most kindly undertaken by 'I
Professor Broad, to whom I am greatly indebted for carrying out i
the work. Each book was identified by means of a pair of letters, '!
such
A
as Em or Ft,
or B character
taken from a suital^le key table, in which the
of the book was entered. These letters were
written on the original cover of the l)Ook, which was detached, and
on a temporary paper folder in which the torn out sheets were placed.
Another key table, giving a large clioice of random sequences of the
numerals 1 to 10, suitably prepared from logaritlim tables, was also
supplied, and the slieets of each book were numbered in accordance
witli one of these sequences before they were torn out ;
they were
then re-arranged in the order 1, 2, 3, . . . 10, which constitutes
effective randomisation for this purpose. Identification was ensured
by writing the appropriate two letters in the margin of the table,
and the serial manlier of the sequence used on the cover of the book.
As a final precaution against tlie matching judge being able to draw
any rational inferences as to the most probable true order of the
sheets from a study of tlie distribution of digits in the logarithm
tables, approximately half the liooks were numbered backwards
instead of forwards, suitable indications being given in the key table.
Since none of this is relevant to the results later presented as
evidence, though some of the matching work may be usefully
informative, 1 shall not go into further detail here.
6. Results : It seems worth recording that during the period of
tins large double experiment, extending over more than three weeks,
both H.S.C. and I were extremely ‘
stale ’
and—not to put too tine
a jiomt on it more than a little bored with experimenting in general
and with the necessity of being on the spot to jiroduce an original
every evening in particular. Several times we nearly forgot ;
once
we were twenty minutes late (Windmill), and I fear that our
thoughts throughout were more on an approaching trip abroad than
on paranormal cognition. I accordingly half expected that the
experiment Mmuld be a failure, or at least comparatively so ;
and if
success or failure dejiended on the conscious mind of the experi-
menter, I do not see how it could have failed to be affected, even
though I was no less anxious than before that it should succeed.
But, as will be seen, it was at least as successful as the others, at
any rate in the sense that it played its full share m producing the j
high signiticant result obtained from the work as a whole.
Probably the most notable features by inspection were : A fine
croji of Scissors (9 in the whole experiment, and none previously) ;
live Balances (incliRling Scales and Steelyards) also unprecedented ;
Five Boots (only two or three slippers before this) ;
Eleven Shells
!162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition, of Drawings 61
i
(counting Snails) as compared with two in earlier experiments ,
and
ia relatively great number of Trees, Boats and Jugs (Lwers),
though all these had been fairly common.
These features will, of course, be incorporated in the calculation
of the main over-all results and there is nothing to l”)e added by
[gloating over them here, striking as they were when first observed.
On the other hand, there was another feature, of a different kind,
which appears to me of such outstanding general interest as to
'
deserve a section to itself.
'
7. Special Note on Dr Rhine's Group : In due course I hope to
make a complete comparative study of the various groups who have
engaged in these experiments, but I have not been able to undertake
this as yet. I feel it incumbent on me, however, to put on record
here the extremely striking results obtained by the group of 12 per-
: cipients from Duke University.
I
By inspection this group is outstandingly good ;
in fact I have
b no doubt at all that it will be found to be easily the best of all which
<1 have taken part. At the moment I can say dehnitely :
i
1. When tested in a 2 x 2 table against all percipients who did
:
not take part in Expt. IV A, viz., the percipients of Expts. I, II,
III and IV B, it yields an intrinsically significant positive result,
for we have
Duke
Group Others Totals
Hits on Originals of IV A - 18 94 112
Hits on other Originals 60 729 789
Totals 78 823 901
whence is found to be 7-853 with P less than -01.
2. When tested against all other percipients who did take part
in Expt. IV A, it yields a significantly better result, for we here have
Duke
Group Others Totals
Hits on Originals of IV A - 18 40 58
Hits on other Originals - 60 268 328
Totals - - - 78 308 386
giving 4-204 with P less than -05.
{N .B. In so far as the above calculations are not self-explanatory,
the reader must wait for full enlightenment till we have discussed
Jlethods of Assessment and the calculation of results ;
they may,
however, be taken as correct pending explanation of these matters.)
3. It is better, though not significantly better (P~-09) than the
other percipients of Expt. IV A at discriminating between the
Part A and Part B originals.
62 Whately Carivgton, M.A., M.Sc. [part
In view of the great amount and intensity of criticism—mostly
sttipid—to which Dr Rhine’s work has been subjected, I think it is
only fair that these very remarkable facts should be noted at the
earliest jmacticable moment. They in no way invalidate, of course,
the consideralile legitimate criticisms which might be, but usually
have not been, brought against the work in question ;
still less do
they guarantee that all the results reported by Dr Rhine and his
colleagues or followers, or even any particular examples thereof, are
veri(lical. But they do go a very long way towards substantiating Dr
Rhine s mam contentions in a general fashion. It will lie seen later
that the results of my experiments taken as a whole are very signi-
hcantly ]iositive ; and in so far as they may be accepted they
indicate the occurrence of a ‘
paranormal ’
mode of cognition. But
this might perfectly well be true and Dr Rhine’s results still due to
a mixture of carelessness, practical joking and so forth. On the
other hand, the fact that members of the Duke Group did so well in
this exjieriment suggests to the point of demonstration that they
possess 111 good measure the ability revealed by the investigation as
a V lole , and if this is so it seems to provide circumstantial evidence
lor supposing that they may also possess the presumably closely
allied abilities claimed for some of them hy Dr Rhine.
Summary : The important points to note in this Section are not
the trivial details, which I record only for the sake of completeness,
but the following ;
1. In all Experiments, the possibility of any percipient seeing
any original, or of his hearing anything, such as pencil scratchings
involuntary whisperings or the like, was completely excluded.
2. In no Experiment was it possilde for any percipient to forecast
or inter the nature of any original by any process of rational in-
terence.
3. The process of random selection which assures the second point
also assures the elimination of coincidental thinking prompted by
contemporary events.
4. If anyone can show that, despite the precautions described,
acre was, in fact, scope for the operation of sensory clues, rational
interence, or coincidental thinking, to any appreciable, extent, the
experiments are automatically suspect ;
and if anyone can show
that any of these things did in fact take place to a material extent,
tiien tlie experiments are inyalidated. But, if not, then not ;
and
m such circumstances, critics must transfer their attentions either
to the Method of Assessment employed or to the statistical treat-
ment.
162]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 63
SECTION III
Methods of Assessment
1 . General
:
From various comments I have made in the preceding
pages it will have been gathered that I had substantially no difficulty
in obtaining what appeared to be genuine positive results when
judged by inspection and assessed by the persuasive if intangible
criteria of common sense. Fortunately or unfortunately, however,
the findings of ‘
common sense like the sayings of the immortal
parrot, are not evidence ;
and I found it by no means so easy to
devise a satisfactory method of assessment which should not only be
completely free from any suspicion of bias and proof against all
manner of wish-thinking, but also sufficiently sensitive and capable
of doing justice to the material.
Somewhat correspondingly, I find that whereas most people with
whom I have discussed the matter have httle difficulty in under-
standing the necessity for the precautions taken against leakage,
and their efficacy, they tend to go astray so soon as questions of
judging and scoring arise. I shall deal faithfully with some of the
commoner pitfalls and fallacies at a later stage, but it will be desirable
here, as a preliminary to what follows in this Section, to consider the
problem in general terms.
The difficulty arises, both technically and in the mind of enquirers,
with the transition from the restricted to the free type of material.
Almost anyone can understand that there is just one chance in 52
of guessing correctly a playing card drawn from a normal shuffled
pack ;
or that, if a pack of 25 Zener cards contains 5 specimens of
each of five varieties, the chance of any guess being right is one fifth,
and five the most probable number of successes in 25 trials. iVnd
most people can at least grasp the idea that it is possible to calculate
the probabihty of any given number of successes arising, in these
circumstances, by ‘
chance alone ’
or ‘ pure guesswork ’, even
though they may be incapable of performing or even following the
requisite calculations themselves. But so soon as we begin to deal
with drawings, which may be of anything under the sun, where
there are no such convenient antecedent probabilities to guide us,
and where opinions may very well differ widely as to what con-
stitutes a ‘
success ’, they seem to imagine that the whole business
must necessarily degenerate into a mere matter of opinion to which
the application of precise methods is impossible.
This is very far from being the case, and the various methods
described below, though of widely differing practical value, are all as
64 Whately Carington, 31.A., 31. Sc. [part
logic nlly impeccable as any that have been used in the assessment of I
restricted material. Indeed, the boot is, if anything, rather on the !
other leg ;
for the antecedent probabilities mentioned above are (
not, as is commonly but erroneously supposed, god-given a priori '
certainties : they are hypotheses basecl on assumptions (usually 1
justifiable in the circumstances) to the effect that the packs of cards, j
etc., which are used ap])roximate very closely to ideal packs and :
suffer negligilfiy from defects, such as differences of stickiness, I
which might cause their behaviour to diverge from the ideal pattern.
1 think 1 am right in saying that all cases where these facts do not,
in principle, need to be taken into account are special cases—e.g.,
that of guessing all the cards in a pack of known composition.
In practice, however, scoring situations are pretty sharply divided
into two tvjres, in the first of which there can be no doubt as to what '
constitutes a success, while in the second there may be. In the
first, the scoring is truly objective, so that it does not matter \
whether the judge or scorer ‘
knows the answer provided he is
accurate and honest ;
whereas in the second it is imperative, as a
rule, that he should not know, lest his personal prepossessions
should Inas the outcome. All experiments with playing cards or
Zener cards fall into the first class, and all experiments with free
drawings into the second. There can, for example, be no doubt
that a success has been scored if the Queen of Hearts is guessed when
the (^ueen of Hearts is drawn, or that a guess is a failure if the '
percipient says ‘
Square ’
when the card in question showed a Star.
Even if we take partial successes into account, giving so many points
for rightness of suit, colour, number, and so forth, the procedure
remains ])erfectly objective, for there can be no reasonable doubt
that a percipient who guesses Nine of Diamonds is thinking of a red
card, so that there can be no question, once the system of scoring
has been settled, as to how many marks he should be given in any
particular case.
But the moment we turn to unrestricted material, such as
Drawings where the percipient is not asked to say Which of a number
of known things the object to be cognised is, but What it is, the
situation beco!ues very different, and is still more so if the percipient
is required to draw what he thinks it is instead of stating its nature
in a word or two. For in these circumstances the question of whether
a success has l)een scored or not may easily be a matter of opinion
or even of acute controversy. Is it to be counted a success, for
example, if the original is an Arch Bridge and the drawing is a
Suspension Bridge ;
or if the original is a Monkey and the drawing
a Gorilla, or a Lemur or a Baboon? Sceptical 2
)urists might say No,
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 65
wishful enthusiasts would say Yes ;
and the only thing certain is
that, regardless of winch might be the more reasonable view, no
assured conclusion could be reached.
It is accordingly clear that, unless our efforts are to be stultified
before we start, we must base our enquiry on a somewhat wider
conception than that of the simple ‘
right or wrong ’
antithesis
applicable to restricted material. This, of course, most emphati-
cally does not mean that we are to allow any one-sided relaxation
of standards such as would allow the wishful to claim mediocre
resemblances as successes and to discard others as failures, just as
it suited their purpose. On the other hand, it would evidently be
absurd to demand an exact point to point correspondence between
Original and Drawing before conceding a ‘
hit ’, for this would merely
ensure that we should never record a ‘
hit ’
at all, either in the right
place or the wrong.
Clearly, our proj^er plan will be to allow whatever latitude we see
fit as regards what shall constitute a resemblance, or ‘
hit ’, but to
arrange our procedure in such a manner that this will cut equally
both ways and be as likely, if chance alone is operative, to increase
the number of hits in the wrong places as in the right. The first
is necessary in order to secure any material to work on ;
the second
is not only necessary but also sufficient to guard against warping the
outcome in one direction or the other.
It is important to get this last j:)oint clear, for one of the commonest
delusions in this context is that lowering the standard of acceptance
(i.e., the closeness of resemblance demanded before a hit is scored)
must ipso facto favour the production of spurious positive results.
I do not know what the origin of this belief may be, biit I suspect
that it is based partly on a false analogy with experiments using
restricted material, and j^artly on a failure to realise that hits in the
wrong place as well as in the right are, and must be, taken into
account in the assessment of any material of the type we are discuss-
ing. Obviously, for example, in an experiment with playing cards,
we should soon generate spurious results if we counted a guess of
Knave or Queen as a full success when the card drawn was a King,
on the ground that these were court cards and ‘
very like ’
the King.
No sane person would do this, of course, without taking into account
the fact that the antecedent probability of success has been materi-
ally increased ;
though it would be perfectly legitimate to do so if
appropriate adjustment were made. I suspect that some people
cannot get away from the idea that analogous antecedent pro-
babilities must be used in assessing free material and that lowering
the standard must be equivalent to the kind of thing just indicated.
66 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part |
without the possibility of applying the corresponding correction ; ]
but this, as will be seen, is not the case. Alternatively or addition-
ally, persons unfamiliar with this class of work are apt to think only I
of one side of the situation and to forget that although lowering the i
standard is likely to increase the number of hits in the right places, '
it is also likely correspondingly to increase the number in the wrong’ I
just as raising it will diminish the number in the wrong as well as in
the right. |
Perhajis the point at issue may best be clarified by reflecting that
the relation between the original and the drawing, or the card and
the guess, etc., is always of a two-fold character ;
there is not only
a relation of likeness but also a relation of position. That is to say,
|
we not only demand of a ‘
successful ’
guess or drawing that it shall I
be ‘
like ’
some card or original used by the experimenter ;
we I
recpiire also that it shall occur in a position related in some definite
way to that in which its prototype occurs. This may, at first sight,
appear too vague ;
actually it is no more than stating our second
recpuremcnt in accurate if general terms. Usually, of course, we
require that the positional relationshij) shall be one of identity ;
that
is to say, just as we demand that the percipient shall guess Square
and not Circle when a Square is concerned, so we insist that he shall
do so on the 10th occasion, say, if that is the occasion on which a
Square is drawn, and not on the 11th or the 9th or any other. But
there is no kind of theoretical necessity for doing this, as regards
either part of the relationship. In practice we usually do it because
it seems to us more likely on common sense grounds (not always an
infallible guide) that if paranormal cognition occurs at all it is most
likely to do so in a certain particular form, namely that which will
produce a strong jiositive relation of likeness and an identity of
ordinal position between the ‘
prototype ’
(original, card, etc.) and
the ‘
reproduction ’
(drawing, guess, etc.). But this is based on a
judgement, not necessarily correct, as to what is likely to happen,
and we are perfectly entitled to modify either part of the relation-
ship, or both, in any way that seems good to us, as by enquiring
whether there is a significant tendency to guess black cards when
red are diawii, and vice versa, or whether correct guesses tend to
occur seven places later than, or within a range of three places before
or after, the prototype. I am not suggesting that it would often
be w ise or profitable to go out of our way to hunt for peculiar ‘
con-
figurations ,
to adojit a convenient term, such as these or others
more fantastic ;
but it would, in princijile, bo perfectly legitimate to
investigate the frequency of their occurrence, if there seemed any
object in doing so, provided always that we make the necessary
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 67
allowances and apply the appropriate safeguards in estimating the
probability of their happening by chance.
My purpose in the preceding remarks was to introduce and
emphasise the notion that there are more places (positions) than one
in which a ‘
hit ’
may occur. Colloquially speaking, there are
‘right’ places and ‘wrong’ places; the right places are those
specified by the positional part of the compound relationship de-
fining the configuration we are considering, siich^ as the same
ordinal position ’, or ‘
within the same experiment ’, and all other
places are wrong. Once this idea is grasped, it is easy to see that
what interests us in the general case is not the absolute number of hits
scored, which may vary greatly according to the intrinsic popularity
,
so to say, of the prototype and the strictness or otherwise of the
scoring, but the question of whether relatively ^ more hits are scored
in the ‘
right ’ places than in the ‘
wrong ’. Further, it should be
clear that, provided the process of scoring or marking is applied
impartially, that is to say without any systematic bias in one sense
or the other, any increase or diminution in the total number of hits
scored, as produced by lowering or raising the standard, will corre-
spondingly inflate or diminish the numbers of hits in the right and
wrong places indiscriminately.’
In dealing with restricted material there is, of course, no difficulty
about ensuring impartiality, because there can be no difference of
opinion about whether a hit has been scored or not ;
but as soon as
we begin to consider Drawings, where acute and perfectly legitimate
differences may easily arise, the position is quite otherwise. Cases
about which there can really be no two opinions are the exception
rather than the rule, and it would be no more than a time-wasting
engenderment of controversy if we were to conduct our process of
assessment in such a way that any positive results which might
emerge could legitimately be attributed to bias on the part of the
judge.
There is only one way of ensuring absolute impartiality in these
circumstances, and that is by arranging that the judge is wholly
1 The word ‘
relatively ’
is necessary because, as a rule, there will be more
wrong places available than right ;
so that if chance only is at work, the
absolute number of hits in the vTong places will be greater than that in the
right. What we want to know is whether the right places get more than their
chance -indicated share of the hits recorded.
2 In what follows, I shall frequently use the term ‘
winners ’
for hits in the
‘
right ’ places, and ‘
losers ’
for hits m the ‘
^vrong the words ‘
right ’
and
‘
wrong ’
having the meaning given above ;
I shall reserve the word ‘
success
’
for the particular case in which the ordinal position of the reproduction in the
series considered is the same as that of its prototype.
08 Whafely Carmglon, M.A., M.Sc. [part
ignorant of which places are '
right ’
and which are ‘
wrong’, so that
he cannot possilily favour the one category at the expense of the
other in his allocation of hits. Under these conditions, the most
that wickedness or stupidity can achieve is a voluntary or involun-
tary sabotaging of the experiment, either by recording so many
hits as to swamp any real effect there may be, or so few as to prevent I
its emergence.
'
For this reason, no less care has been taken throughout this work I
to prevent leakage of the relevant information to judges than to
prevent leakage of sensory and inferential clues to tlie percipients.
In the following sections I describe three methods of assessment
which have been tried. Only the third has proved satisfactory, but
I have thought it worth while to give some account of the other two, |
partly for the sake of completeness, and partly in order to emphasise
the imjiortance of not deciding too rigidly m advance the form which
a real effect, if any ‘
must ’
take. The third method is neither more
nor less theoretically valid than the first, but it revealed the signi-
ficance of previously unsuspected facts indicated by inspection of
the material ;
the first was just as good a w^ay of tackling the job
in the light of antecedent ignorance, but since the effect it was
designed to bring out was not detectably present it led to null
results.
2. The Method of Forced Matching : The matching technique
discussed below is not new to psychological practice, for it has been
fairly freely used in cases such as the connection of character with
handwriting where ordinary quantitative methods cannot readily
be apjihed. The principles involved are likely to be more easily
grasped liy some readers if we begin by considering an illustrative
example of this kind.
We will suppose that we want to know whether a graphologist
can form, from specimens of handwriting, estimates of the writers’
c aracters which cannot plausibly lie discounted as no more than
lucky shots ;
and we will suppose that we are rightly anxious to
ehimnate any bias due to our own preconceptions as to the possibility
of doing so. We select, say, ten subjects. A, B, C . . . I, J, for
experiment and obtain from each a sjiecimen of handwriting which
we siilmiit to the graphologist, asking him to make out the best
character sketch he can of each person concerned and to give us the
ten sketches shuffled up so that we cannot tell wliich is meant for
which person, but so numbered that they can later be identified. At
our end, we may either rely on our personal knowledge of Messrs
A, B, C, etc., or we induce some competent observer acquainted
with them all to prepare ten other character sketches based on
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawhigs 69
ordinary experience ;
these may either be randomised or not, but
we will suppose they are not. When the graphologist’s versions
arrive, we compare them with those of the competent observer or
with our own knowledge, and try to pair the two sets olf grapholo-
gist’s A against observer’s A, graphologist’s B against observer s B,
and so forth ;
but of course, as I have just said, we do not know
which of the graphologist’s sketches is meant for A and which for B,
so that we are forced to rely exclusively on the resemblances, if any,
between his version and that of the other observer. When we have
paired oft’ the two sets to the best of our abihty, we ask the grapholo-
gist for the key to his numbering, and thus ascertain how many
correct pairings we have made. We might find this sort of thing
for example :
Graphologist’s estimate of: .TCHDEAGBIF
is paired with
Observer’s estimate of: ABCDEFGHIJ
Here there are four correct pairings, namely those of D, E, Gr
and I, wdiich is a good deal more impressive than it looks, for we
should obtain four or more coincidences only once in fifty such trials,
on the average, if chance alone were operative—if, for example, we
had simply drawn the two sets of sketches at random out of two hats.
The point to grasp here is that, if character and handwriting
(strictly speaking, as estimated ))y the particular observer and
graphologist concerned) have no systematic connection with each
other, and the graphologist has no other source of information than
the specimens submitted to him, then the matching procedure is
precisely equivalent to the hat drawing ritual so far as the chances
and expectations of finding coincidences are concerned. For, ex
hypothesi, there is no more than a random relation between the
graphologist’s only guide and the characters he is trying to assess ;
and even if the observer’s estimates were perfect, the relation of the
graphologist’s versions to these could still be no more than random.
It is very important to note here that we are not concerned in a
situation of this type with the question of how good the grapholo-
gist’s estimates are, in any absolute sense, but only with whether
they are good enough to enable us to identify each as more like some
one of the other sketches than it is like the rest.
Now let us replace the known estimates of character, as made by
the observer or ourselves, by the Originals in one of our experiments,
and the graphologist’s efforts by the Drawings of one of the per-
cipients suitably shuffled and code numbered so that we do not know
which is which. Then the situation as regards matching the
70 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
Drawings to the Originals is fornially the same as that of matching
the graphologist’s character sketches to the observer’s estimates.
Most peojile seem to have no difficulty in understanding the grapho-
logical parallel, but many come to grief when they try to think of
the drawing-original situation. This appears to be mainly due to
an insistent confusion between the prol)ability of the j
udge correctly
matching the nth drawing to the /(,th original by chance alone, when
he has nothing but the intrinsic resemblance to rely on, and the
probabihty of the percipient drawing an ‘
X ’, or an ‘
X-like ’
object,
on the same occasion as an ‘
X ’
is represented by the original.
However, since the method is well established, and I am not
relying on its results for evidential purposes here, there is no need
to s])end more time on demonstrating its validity.
The procedure itself is simj^le enough. The judge (in these cases
usually H.S.C. or W.W.C.), with the originals of the experiment
concerned before him and knowing, as a rule, the order in which
they were used, receives the drawings of each percijjient arranged in
a random order by some third party {vide supra) and code-numbered
for subsequent identification. He accordingly has no external clue
to guide him in deciding which drawing was intended for which
original and must rely solely on such intrinsic resemblances as he can
detect. His task, of course, in respect of every percipient, is to
assign each of the (normally) ten drawings to whichever of the
originals he considers it most closely resembles, or is least unlike.
Sometimes this is easy enough, as with the Hands and Cows of
Expt. 1, which could be assigned to Hand and Buffalo without
hesitation, or with the Tops and Guns of Expt. II and Scissors and
Balances of IV A ;
but more often it is necessary to look for some
more or less recondite similarity of form, or for associations of greater
or less remoteness, in order to come to a decision ;
for example, in
Expt. I, we frecpiently assigned drawings of Boats to the original
Anchor, on the ground that both were ‘
nautical ’, or vases, etc., to
Bottle, as being ‘
containers ’.
The judge is obliged, it will be
understood, to assign every drawing to some original (hence the
name ‘
Forced ’
Matching) and it not infrequently happens that the
utmost ingenuity fails to discern any plausible resemblance at all,
so that one or more drawings are finally placed by elimination or
simply at random. After all the assignments have been made, on
one basis or another, and duly noted, the occasion on which each
drawing was actually produced is ascertained by reference to the
key held by the third party aforesaid, and the number of correct
matchings made in the case of each percipient is counted. It is then
only a matter of some not very advanced mathematics to determine
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 71
the probability of the observed number in each case being due to
chance alone. I need not i nfl ict these on the reader here, but the
following Table, for which I am indebted to Dr Thouless, shows
the probabilities of making the various possible numbers of correct
matchings for series of ten originals and ten drawings, such as we
are concerned with here. The column headed R gives the number
correct, which may have any value from 0 to 10 inclusive, except 9.
Under N is shown the number of ways in which 10 drawings can be
arranged so that R are rightly matched ^
;
column P gives the
probability of getting exactly R right by chance alone, while P'
shows that of obtaining R or more right by chance, which is what
interests us here.
Table 2
R N P P'
0 1,334,961 •367,9 1-0
1 1,334,960 •367,9 •632,1
2 667,485 •183,9 •264,2
3 222,480 •061,31 •080,3
4 55,650 •015,34 •019,0
5 11,088 •003,056 •003,66
6 1,890 •000,520,8 •000,600
7 240 •000,066,1 •000,079
8 45 •000,012,4 •000,013
9 0 0 —
10
Total
:
1
3,628,800
•000,000,276 •000,000,3
These figures apply to any single set of ten matchings ;
when,
as in any of these experiments, we wish to combine the results from
a plurality of percipients, it is more convenient to apply the Stevens
matching formula (Cf. pp. 83-84 below), from which it is easily seen
that the expected number of correct matchings is equal to the number
of percipients, with variance the same ;
for in each case the expecta-
tion is 1 with variance 1 ;
and the expectation and variance for the
whole group are equal respectively to sum of the expectations and
the smn of the variances of the constituents.
The actual residts of matching the first three experiments in this
way are summarised in Appendix II, from which it will be seen that,
when all results are taken together, no conclusion of serious evidential
value in favour of a cognitive elfect can be drawn. There are, how-
ever, one or two points of interest which are worth mentioning.
^ These necessarily add up to 3,628,800, or ‘
factorial ten ’, which is the total
number of different ways m which ten things can be arranged.
72
I
Whately Garington, M.A., M.Sc. [pabt
Chief of these is the very remarkable score of no fewer than six
correct matchings obtained with one of the percipients of the first k
experiment. Reference to the Table just given will show that such m
a result, or better, could be expected, on the average, only about six
times in 10,000 such trials, or once in about 1,600 attempts. This,
of course, would be highly significant if it were the only observatiori
to be considered, ami the probability of its occurring by chance
even as the best among the 68 sets of the first three experiments
is no more than 1 in 25, which would itself be considered tolerably
significant in normal contexts.
But the attendant circumstances rendered this result even more
remarkable than it ajijiears at first sight. The jiercipient was the
fourth whose drawings were matched by H.S.C. and myself, and it so
happened that we completed a batch of ten, and ascertained the
number of matchings correctly made, before going on to deal with the |
remaining sets. In this first batch of ten, we scored as many as
20 successes, which is an excess of 10 over expectation with standard ®
error 3-162. Such an excess or greater would occur only once in i'.
about 660 such groups of 10 by chance alone, and no more than once
'
in almost exactly 100 times as the best of 6-8 such groups (i.e., in
the whole of the material so far dealt with by matching). It is quite f
legitimate to single out this group for special consideration, because
it is, so to say, isolated from the rest by considerations other than
its high score ; it was the first we matched ;
we stopped when we
had done it ;
and we did not resume the work till after we were
aware of the success of our efforts ;
thus the group is sharply
'
distinguished from all others on both chronological and psychological
j
grounds. The success achieved may, of course, have been no more '
than a fiuke, either in its entirety or as regards the six-success set
only, and if anyone wishes to write it off as such on the ground that
'
we failed to repeat it, I cannot reasonably object ;
but it will be his
loss, not mine. I might have felt constrained to do so myself if the I
Method of Palpable Hits had not yielded the very much more
significant results reported below. As it is, I think it much more (
probable that it is genuine, and represents an unrepeated (though I
‘
hope not unrepeatable) display of what I can only call “ insight ” ,
by H.S.C., who was almost wholly responsible for the matching at
'
this stage. Certainly it was not due to these ten percipients having
drawn things more clearly lilve the originals than others did ;
in
particular, the hero of the six successes produced no unmistakeable
resemblance at all, and H.S.C. ’s assignments in this case appeared to
'
me (I must confess) to border on the far-fetched and unconvincing.
This, however, does not alter the facts or the probabilities, which
j.Jj
Uli
Lia
162]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 73
clearly suggest that the achievement was more in the nature of a
tour deforce than a stroke of luck. If this is so, the implications are
of very great psychological interest from two points of view : in
the first place it is suggested that a genuine cognitive process may
be subject to such distortion as leads to expression in almost
unrecognisable form ;
in the second, it would appear that to detect
the relation between drawing and original in such cases calls for
something more or other than rational perspicacity can provide ;
presumably it involves a kind of intuitional process at the same
mental level as that at which the distortion or transformation took
place.
As a matter of fact, we shall later find evidence for supposing
(p. 95) that drawings having no more than a very feeble resemblance
to their originals are yet to some extent determined by them, which
tends to support this view ;
and it is greatly to be hoped that
H.S.C. may succeed in recapturing her initial virtuosity, the loss of
which (if real) is probably accounted for by the feeling that the
success achieved settled the question at issue beyond need of further
effort.
The other point that requires mentioning is the remarkable
tendency we noticed for the best aiid most convincing resemblances
to occur on the wrong occasions. We made it a practice to grade
our matchings as a, /?, or y according to the degree of confidence
we felt in them, which very approximately corresponded to the
degree of resemblance discernible, and the Table below shows the
numbers of a’s given in each of the first three experiments and how
many of them were displaced early, late, or not at all.
Table 3
Displacement
Early Zero Late Total
Expt. I 9 2 28 39
„ II 11 3 17 31
„ III 9 1 9 19
Total 29 6 54 89
We should of course expect about 9 zero displacements out of
89 awards if chance only were operative, and the difference is not
significant. On the other hand the excess of Late over Early
displacements is quite definitely so, both for the first experiment
(P<-01) and for the Totals (P<-()2). This might be due, on the
chance-only hypothesis, to the more popular originals (i.e., those
74 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
more commonly drawn under truly random conditions) happening
to have come early in the series. I did a considerable amount of
work, by control matchings and otherwise, to investigate this
possibility ;
but concluded that though the effect was probably a |
real one, it was to some extent due to this cause, while the data !
available were insufficient to settle the matter decisively. But we |
shall be dealing with the whole question of Displacement, which is i
extremely important, at a later stage and by rigid methods, so that
I need not go into details of these early explorations here, beyond
remarking that these ol)servations went far to support the belief
engendered by the success of the first batch of matchings that
something other than chance was at work.
For similar reasons I need not describe here the investigations I
undertook to test sundry hypotheses, of varying degrees of far-
fetchedness, advanced by assorted critics to account for our initial
success on normal grounds ;
for example, the suggestion that '
percijnents might tend to do their drawings later and later as the
experiment progressed, and that we might have been unwittingly !
guided in our assignments by the time data recorded on the sheets. I
All these yielded null results.
On the whole, I think there is very little to be said for the Method |
of Forced Matching for this purpose, or probably for any other. i
Apart from the fact that it is liable to be completely wrecked by '
the ])henomenon of disjilacement, it does not seem to yield any
information that woidd not l )e given by a suitable system of marking,
while it automatically precludes the possil)ility of giving recognition
to the influence of more than one original on the same drawing,
j
and is hopeless for dealing with multi])le or composite drawings.
The chief advantage gained is that the assessment of each experi-
|
ment, and indeed of each percipient, is self-contained, and does not
|
require reference to any other drawings ;
and it would be of out- |
standing value for cases, if ever they occur, in which very faint I
resemblances, such as would probably be ignored in any ordinary
system of marking, preponderantly appear on the correct occasions. |
2. The Method of Decimal Scoring.
The results of tlie first ex])erinient suggested, and those of the
second and third confirmed, that the Method of Forced Matching was
not likely to be successful. This was not because the drawings pro-
duced by the perci])ients bore no discernible resemblance to the
originals at which the set as a whole was aimed, or only resemblances
so infrequent or so feeble as to be of insignificant importance ; on
the contrary, so far as common sense inspection and estimation of
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 75
prol.>al)ilities could tell, they seemed to be representing at any rate
the general idea, if not the exact form, of the originals a good deal
more successfully than was likely to be due to chance alone for
example, by the appearance of Hands and Cows in Expt. I and of
Shootings and Tops in Expt. II. The trouble, as already indicated,
was that the most successful reproductions tended to come in the
wrong place, so that the Hand displayed as an original on Saturday,
say, would appear as a percipient’s drawing on Sunday or Monday
instead of on its proper day. Since the whole Method of Matching
depends on the assumption that there will be preponderantly a
one to one correspondence of occasion between an original and the
drawing most closely resembling it, it is pretty well bound to be
defeated by displacements of this kind ;
at the very least, its utility
is likely to be seriously impaired. On the other hand, it is far from
unreasonable to suppose that an impression subconsciomsly received
might remain latent for some little time until either an internal
process of gestation, or the incidence of some extraneous stimulus
brought it into the conscious field ;
alternatively, a process of
gestation in the mind of the agent might be necessary prior to
transmission, if the cognition were dependent on telej^athic
factors.
I accordingly sought for a method which should enable us to
answer the broader question of whether the sets of drawings pro-
duced by the percipients, taking each set as a whole, significantly
tended to resemble the series of originals at which they were aimed
[i.e., the series of originals used in the experiment in which those
percipients were concerned) more closely than they resemljled series
of originals at which they were not aimed. The idea, in other words,
was to match each set of drawings, as a whole, against two or more
series of originals, as wholes (one of them being that at which the
drawings were aimed) instead of matching individual drawings
against individual originals.
There is, of course, no theoretical reason why this should not
be done in the literal manner suggested by the words used above.
We might, that is to say, present the judge with the originals of
perhaps half a dozen experiments, divided into the six series in
which they were actually used, together with all the sets of drawings
produced in those experiments, suitably randomised and coded, and
ask him to assign each set to the series which, on the whole, he thinks
it most closely resembles, working by inspection and qualitative
judgement alone. But the practical difficulties of such a procedure
are great, as was discovered when Prof. Broad kindly attempted to
apply this plan to six sets of drawings and originals produced in the
'6 Whatehj Oariugion, M.A., M.Sc. [part
course of the Ihivate or Individual Experiments. Apart from the
difficulty of bearing a large number of originals in mind at a time,
there is that presented by the conflicting claims of drawings in the
same set, of which some may resemble originals in one series, while
others resemble originals in other series ;
and it may become neces-
sary to decide whether the strong resemblance of a certain drawing
to originals in series A should or should not outweigh the fainter
resemblances of two or more other drawings to originals in series B.
Considerations of this kind necessitated the introduction of some
quantitative method of expressing estimated degrees of resemblance,
as opposed to making a purely qualitative decision to the effect that
one drawing, or set, was more like one original, or series, than the
others with which it was compared.
The plan I thought most promising was as follows : J udges were
to be given a collection of shuffied and coded sets of drawings taken
from two (or possibly more) experiments together with the originals,
also shuffled, belonging to those experiments, and were to be asked
to assign to each drawing as many points, from 0 to 10 inclusive,^
as they thought it deserved for its resemblance to any original or
originals. In cases where two or more objects appeared in the
same drawing the marks which Avould have been given to any of
them if shown singly were to lie reduced to an extent corresponding
to the relative importance of the object in que.stion in the drawing
in which it appeared ; To quote from the instructions “ If the
relevant object shares the drawing more or less equally with one, two,
three, etc., other objects of apparently equal imjiortance, it should
lie given a half, a third, a quarter, etc., of the points it would have
been given if it had appeared alone ”. This regulation was probably
unwise, and was discarded in the Method of Palpable Hits finally
adopted ;
for further reflection suggested that the important point
is not likely to be that of whether the idea depicted in the original
is the only impression received by or present to the mind of the
percijiient, but of whether the draw'ing jirovides good evidence for
supposing that the idea wuis prominently present in his mind at all.
It we add up the ]ioints allotted in this way to the originals of each
series concerned, for each set so scored, we shall obtain totals which
will, in general, be unequal ;
and if the total for the series at which
any particular set was aimed is greater than for that or those at
which it w^as not aimed, we may say that the set has been correctly
matched to its owm series.
Thus, to take an imaginary example, a jiarticular set from Expt. I,
^ Hence the name given to the method.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Draivings 77
say, scored against the originals of Expts. 1 and II, might yield
results like this :
wing No. Original Point.s
1. Parnassus 3
2. Hand 10
3. Horse 5
4. Buffalo 8
5. Net 6
6. — —
7. Throne 7
8.
9.
10.
Bottle 10
Bat 3
Noting that Hand, Buffalo, Net, Bottle and Bat, scoring 37 between
them, are originals of Expt. I, while Parnassus, Horse and Throne,
scoring only 15 between them, belong to Expt. II, we conclude that
in the opinion of the judge the set, taken as a whole, resembles the
originals of Expt. I, at which it was aimed, more closely than it
resembles those of Expt. II at which it was not aimed. If we have
a number of sets scored in this way, we can calculate the ])robability
that any observed proportion of them should be correctly allocated
to their own originals as the result of chance alone.
It is clear that the process of allotting points to the originals of
the various series concerned according to the degree of resemblance,
if any, that each drawing of a set is judged to show to them, and
then adding the scores so obtained by each series, is only a
roundabout way of ‘
matching ’
sets as wholes to series as wholes,
which is what we set out to do.
A rough and ready trial of the method yielded promising results ;
but exploration soon showed that it had serious disadvantages.
The chief of these may be summarised by saying that it proved
extremely difficult to frame instructions elastic enough to give room
for the exercise of common sense and at the same time sufficiently
precise to avoid lea\dng the result too much at the mercy of the
indi\ddual caprices of the jiidge. Such idiosyncrasies could not, of
course, systematically falsify the outcome, nor would they be likely
altogether to obscure a genuine positive result in the long run ;
but,
by introducing factors other than the straightforward resemblance
or close association of drawing to original, they in effect increase the
variance, and may thus inordinately lengthen the ‘
run ’
necessary
to secure a definite answer to the questions studied . As an example
of the kind of thing I have in mind, one potential judge of whom I
had great hopes, insisted, in flagrant violation of the instructions,
78 Whafely Caringto)i, 31. A., M.Sc. [part
on giving the maximum of 10 marks to Hand for a drawing expressly
described by the percipient as representing a fingernail ;
two others
seemed to think that they were engaged in a puzzle picture com-
petition, on the lines of ‘
In this drawing of a bird’s nest find five
hidden pirates ’
;
while in another instance it was seriously contended
that a drawing of a girl on a surfl)oard should be given points for
Incubator, on the ground that the words ‘
poule ’
in French and
‘
chicken ’
in American are colloquially used to refer to the female
young of the human species. This kind of thing might be of interest
in pursuing the more abstruse ramifications of the subject, but so
long as we are in doubt as to whether any paranormal cognition
takes place at all it can only obscure the issue.
Another and sometimes more serious trouble is that if the objects
depicted in one series of originals are appreciably more popular, in
the sense of being more frequently drawn under chance conditions,
than those of the other series they will tend to attract, as it were, an
undue proportion of points, so that only sets resembling the other
series so strongly as to outweigh this difference will escape the
attraction and have a chance of being allocated to the less popular
series. This effect is very marked in the case of Expt. IV B, which
contains some highly popular originals, notably Tree and Boat
;
reference to Ajjpendix III will show how it ruins my scoring of 80 sets
from Expt. IV.
Finally, if the method is applied, as I applied it, to drawings and
originals taken from only two experiments at a time, it is liable to be
extremely insensitive, because so high a jmoportion as 50% correct
assignments might be expected to result from guesswork alone ;
while, on the other hand, the task of attempting to decide what
fraction of a maximum of 10 points should be allotted to which, or
perhaps each of several, of more than twenty originals is too difficult
to expect any ordinary person to attempt with success.
In view of these handicaps it is hardly surprising that application
of the method was next door to being a failure. Mr and Mrs Oliver
Gatty, to whom I am very much indelfied in this matter, working
on the suitably grouped, randomised and camouflaged drawings of
the first three experiments, obtained a result slightly beyond the
•07 level of significance, which looked reasonably promising, though
hardly a rich reward for the examination of over 650 drawings. But
even this was reduced to no better than -12 when my own scoring
of 80 sets from Expt. IV, A & B, was included, and was only raised
to a level a little better than -03 by the incorporation of the 16 sets
of the Individual Experiments. Details are given in Appendix III.
These results were disappointing, especially in view of the amount
1
1
i
!
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 79
of labour involved, and by contrast with the degree of success
apparently visible to the naked eye. It seemed clear to me that the
method was at once too delicate and too cumbrous, too elaborate and
too insensitive, to be of permanent utility, and that something
considerably better would have to be devised.
3. The Method of Palpable Hits.
General
:
This, the third and (so far) last method adopted was
designed to overcome the difficulty of Displacement which stultified
the first, while avoiding the defects of vagueness and insensitivity
which, so far as I could judge, were chiefly responsible for the poor
results obtained from the second.
It must be realised that all the time the collection of material
and attempts at assessment described above were going on I was
continually impressed by the plain, commonsense evidence that the
experiments seemed to thrust upon my notice. For example : The
originals of the first experiment contained a Hand, and the 37 sets
of the first experiment showed at least six obvious drawings of hands,
apart from several with plausible claims as partial successes ;
in
contrast, the 31 sets of Expts. II & III produced no more than
one glove and one finger-nail, which might j^erhaps count as one
success for Hand between them. For Buffalo, I found five obvious
cows in the first experiment, but only two in the second and third
together. Similarly, I found five unmistakeable guns, cannon, etc.,
for Shooting among the drawings of the 20 sets of Expt. II, and
only one very doubtful candidate in the 48 sets of Expts. I & III.
Again, when I began to examine the drawings of Expt. IV, I found
a very satisfactory number of Scissors and Balances, neither of
which had appeared at all in the drawings of the first three experi-
ments, together with an apparently undue proportion of Ewers (or
similar vessels) and isolated Trees. It seemed to me almost
incredible, on conunon sense grounds, that these effects were solely
due either to chance or to the wishful selectivity of my own mind, or
that, if they were genuine, it should be impracticable to demonstrate
them significantly by some tolerably simple method.
I accordingly determined to abandon, for the time being at any
rate, my ideas on giving full scope to possible associations, distortions
of form, symbohsms, etc., and to concentrate on the simplest and
most straight-forward method of assessment possilile. I similarly
resolved to discard the niceties of gradation afforded by giving
anything from 0 to 10 points to a resemblance, together with the
system of scoring in proportion to the importance of the object in
the drawing, and to base the assessment as nearly as possible on the
80 Whately Caringfon, 31.A., 31. Sc. [part
j
simple principle Do this drawing and that original plainly and »
unmistakeably portray the same thing? If they do, give one mark ;
I
if they do not, give nothing.” In other words, only ‘"palpable hits ’
«
were to be counted.
This sounds simple enough on ])aper, but in practice it is not d
nearly so easy as might be supposed, and I found it quite impracti-
cable (somewhat fortunately, as it proved) to induce others con- i
cerned to adopt and maintain the high standard I originally en-
visaged, and extremely difficult to adhere to it myself.
In the first place, I realised even before I started, that it would be i
necessary,
to modify the basic rule, so as to cover composite drawings i
containing more than one object, by adding “ or does the drawing i
provide plain and unmistakeable evidence that the object portrayed
in the original was prominently in the mind of the percipient when I
he made the drawing ”, or words to that effect ;
and the introduction :
of the word prominently ’
at once opens the door to a certain !
amount of difference of opinion and ambiguity ;
yet without this |
modification a number of drawings which common sense would i
indicate as cleanly hits ’, such as horses in carts, or cows standing 1
under trees, might be rejected by too literal a follower of instruc-
tions.
In the second place, even the words “ the same object ” cannot
be wholly unamliiguous ;
for example, a drawing of a child might
be helcl to represent Ancestor just as well as the old man I actually
c rew, for very many children have descendants and all ancestors
were }-oung once. In cases such as this it seems necessary to keep
pretty closely to the actual drawing ;
whereas with an original like
(
JNet (Dxpt. I, 8) it is more important to consider what was in the
'
agent s mind (namely, illustrating a net) rather than all of what was (
drawn (namely, a man pulling a net with little fish in it out of the
sea) for It would be obviously absurd, or so I think, to give a mark to
every drawing which shows a man, a fish or the sea, without any I
indication of the net. On points such as these opinions may well '
differ, and it does not very much matter what we decide to do, pro-
vided our decision is not manifestly nonsensical and that we hold
to It with reasonable consistency ; indeed, failure to conform to even
these conditions would not necessarily prove fatal. It will be
understood, or so I hope, that no convention of a general kind can i
possibly produce a spurious positive result ;
this could only be done |
:»y orcing upon the marker some arbitrary specijic convention
based on a preliminary study of the material. For example, I might
notice that there was a large number of keys drawn among the sets
0 Fxpt. IV, as was the case, and then suggest or insist that keys
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 81
I
should be given a point for, let us say, Castle ;
this, if followed,
I
would lead to a number of unjustifiable winning hits being recorded ;
but a general instruction such as ‘
clearly identifiable parts of objects
should be treated as if the whole object were drawn ’
could do no
harm ;
for there is evidently no reason why such a riile should
I
increase the proportion of hits registered on originals in the series at
which percipients were aiming {i.e. ‘
winning hits ’
or ‘
winners ’)
compared with those on series at which they were not aiming
(‘ losing hits ’
or ‘
losers ’), and it is by the relative frequencies of
these, not by the total number of hits of all kinds, that the issue
must be judged.
On the other hand, it behoves us to frame our rules with intelli-
gence, because, if we make them too lax, we shall tend to blur
whatever pattern the data might otherwise reveal, while, if we make
them too stringent, we shall risk having no pattern to blur. Thus,
if we gave a mark to Arrow for every drawing with a straight line in
it (‘ straight as an arrow ’), and one to Shell for every drawing with
a curly line in it, we should be likely so to overweight these two
originals with marks as completely to swamp out the kind of thing
we are looking for ;
while if we insisted on a drawing being an exact
point to point counterpart of the original before giving it a mark,
we should ensui'e a perfectly null residt by being unable to award any
marks at all.
Our business, clearly, is to steer between the two extremes by
framing the simplest set of common-sense rules we can, and to leave
the doubtful cases to the discretion of the marker aided by whatever
suggestions of a general or non-tendentious character we can supply.
I shall refer again shortly to the instructions and guidance actually
used, but the underlying principle remained substantially that given
above, namely :
‘
Stick to the obvious ;
avoid the recondite ;
give
one mark for a palpable hit, nothing for a miss, and half a point if
there is real doubt ’. Thus three degrees of resemblance were
recognised—hit, miss and doubtful—compared with the eleven
permitted in the method of decimal scoring.
In the interests of sensitivity I also decided that all drawings must
be marked against all originals, within any self-contained group of
experiments,^ as opposed to working by pairs of series of originals
as I did with the preceding method. This involved trying to bear the
fifty originals in mind at once, or else adopting the terribly tedious
1 1 shall discuss elsewhere the question of what is to be done when we are
lealing with isolated experiments, or small groups ;
one cannot go on marking
all drawings against all originals indefinitely, nor can one be sure of always
having a suitably sized group within which to work.
82 Whately Carington, 31. A., 31. Sc. [part
procedure of comparing each drawing with each original in turn ;
but on the credit side there was no longer any need to think about
exact gradings or to look for associations and the like, so that it was
not quite so formidable as it sounds, and exjierience showed that it
could be done without undue ditliculty.
I have already emphasised the necessity for basing our enquiry _
on an empirical study of the frequency with which people do in fact I
draw the objects dejucted in the originals, on occasions when these
originals are not exposed, l)ut a few remarks in amplification may not
be out of place here. It is no use congratulating ourselves on the |
fact that Hands and Cows, Guns and Spinning Tops, Scissors and I
Balances turn up where they should and not where they shouldn’t, J
if at the same time, unremarked l)y us, other originals are scoring a I
]mofusion of hits in winning and losing positions indiscriminately.
j|
If our originals consisted prej)onderantly of oljjects which, like Trees !
and Boats, are very commonly drawn, it might qiute well happen I
that a few lucky hits on the less popular originals, in the right place I
and not rej^eated elsewhere, woidd look extremely impressive to the I
expectant eye, whereas they would really be no more than some of
those insignihcant aberrations with which any large collection of i
random data is almost certain to be embellished. We have no right
to pick out the plums, however cons^^icuous they may be, and to use
them alone in a test of significance ;
though we may quite legiti-
mately test them mentally, so to speak, in the light of our general
experience and common sense, with a view to forming a qualitative
judgement as to what is going on. For a statistical test we must
take accoimt of all hits, whether ‘
winners ’
or ‘
losers ’, within the
group concerned, before we can decide on the likelihood of the
observed pro])ortion of winners being the result of chance alone.
31afheniatical Treatment. Tlie statistical treatment necessitated
by the method does not, fortunately, involve any very recondite
process : indeed, the hrst stage is a matter of no more than common i
sense arithmetic. VVe will suppose that an unbiassed judge has
'
given us the number of hits scored by all the percipients of each
experiment on the originals of tliat experiment and of all others in
the group considered ;
that is to say, the number of hits scored by
all drawings on all originals, suitably subdivided under experiments.
A certain numljer of these will be ‘
winners ’, namely those scored by
the percipients of any particular experiment on the originals used in
that experiment, and the remainder will l)e ‘
losers ’. Our task is
first to calculate, from the empirical data provided, how many
winners we should expect, and then to apply a test of significance to
show how likely it is that the observed number differs from the
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 83
expected number as much as it actually does (or more) if this
difference were the result of chance alone.
^
In dealing with the first of these stages we ignore ‘
misses
’
altogether ;
for these are of no more interest to us than would be
calls of ‘
spade ’
or ‘
club ’
by a percipient trying to guess cards in a
pack consisting (unknown to him) solely of hearts and diamonds.
All we are interested in is the question of whether percipients tend
to draw Hands, Horses, Violins, Scissors, Trees, etc., significantly
more often when these objects are represented among the originals
used in the course of an experiment than when they are not, and the
frequency with which they draw armadillos, razors, kite-balloons,
or other objects which have not been presented at all, can throw no
light on the problem.
Now suppose, for the sake of illustration, that our judge has given
a grand total of 1,000 hits by all drawings on all originals, and that
these include 25 hits on Boat ;
and suppose also that 400 hits of one
kind or another were scored by the percipients aiming at the series
of originals in which Boat appeared. It is clearly no more than a
matter of the simplest sort of proportion sum to ascertain how many
of these 400 hits may be expected to be Boats, if chance alone is
operative. For we have just found that boats make up twenty-five
thousandths of all hits, or 2-5%, and on the chance hypothesis there
is no reason for supposing that this proportion will be greater or less
in any particular sample we may happen to choose ;
so we should
expect to find 2-5% of 400, namely 10 Boats, appearing among the
drawings of the percipients in question. But precisely the same
reasoning will apply to the series of originals used in any experiment,
taken as a whole, as applies to any particular original within it,
except that we shall use the attribute of ‘
being like one of the
originals of such-and-such an experiment ’
instead of the attribute
of ‘
being like the original Boat ’
in making our calculation. For
example, if 280, or 28%, of the total hits recorded were on the
originals of Expt. I, and the percipients of that experiment scored,
as before, 400 hits on the originals of all experiments together, we
should expect 28% of 400, or 112, to be the number of hits scored
by these percipients on their own originals, if there were no factor
other than chance tending to make them score more. Repetition
of the process for all experiments gives us the total expected number
of ‘
winners ’.
If we find that the observed number of winners is considerably in
excess of the expected number, we shall have grounds for suspecting
that the chance hypothesis is insufficient to account for the facts,
and that the frequency with which drawings representing the various
84 Whately Carmgfon, M.A., M.Sc. [part
originals appear is not independent of whether these originals
occurred in the series at which the percipients were aiming. But
we cannot form an accurate j
udgement until we have determined the
‘
variance ’
of the expected number, that is to say, a quantity which
serves as a measure of the extent to which the theoretically calculated
expectation is likely to vary under chance conditions, and accord-
ingly affords a means of judging whether any actually observed
deviation therefrom is likely to be due to chance alone.
This is not such a simple matter as that of determining the
expectation, and the interested reader should refer to Mr Stevens’
paper, “ Tests of Significance for Extra Sensory Perception Data,”
Psychol. Rev., Vol. 46, No. 2, March 1939, where it is shown that the
value of the variance, a“, is given by an expression of the form
l‘l
6
i I
.
I
+ N2 . S {a,hj) - N . S {np,) {a^ -f h,-),
}
which is not, in practice, nearly so formidable to deal with as it
appears. From this quantity we derive the Standard Error (cr) of
the Expectation, by taking the square root ;
dividing this into the
observed excess of winners we obtain the value of the ‘
normal
deviate ’, whence, by reference to the appropriate Tables in the usual
way, we find the probability of such an excess, or a greater, arising
as a result of chance alone. An example will be shown worked in
full when I come to discuss the outcome of the experiments as a
whole. A discussion of the applicability of Mr Stevens’ method to
the present problem, by Dr Trwin and Mr Glatty, together with a
physical analogy due to Professor Broad, will be found in Appen-
dix V.
Marlxing the Drawings. Meanwhile we must consider the very '
important matter of how the drawings were in fact marked, and the
precautions taken to ensure that the data to be used in subsequent
calculations were wholly or substantially unbiassed.
To start with, all drawings were marked against all 50 originals
l)y myself. This was done partly as a matter of exploration, in
order to see whether the method seemed promising, and partly to
find out at first hand what sort of difficulties or ambiguities were
likely to be encountered. I did this work as carefully and con-
scientiously as I could ;
but, since I knew which drawings were
aimed at which originals, the highly significant result I obtained
cannot be accepted as reliable evidence. I do not think I erred in
the direction of giving winning points where none were deserved
—
that, I found, was fairly easy to avoid ;
but it was only natural that,
knowing a given batch of drawings to have been aimed at a particular
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 85
series of originals, I should have other series less prominently in
mind than this, and should thus tend to miss a certain number of
‘
losers ’
which a wholly uninformed judge might find. On the other
hand, since I had drawn 30 of the 50 originals myself, and had
assisted H.S.C. in the preparation of the remainder, it is reasonable
to suppose that I was in a better position than any outsider to know
what the agent actually had in mind at the time, and thus whether
any particular drawing successfully reproduced it ;
and this might
well be of importance from certain points of view. Be this as it
may, however, my own markings must evidently be ruled hors
concours : they are given below as a matter of comparative interest
only and no conclusions are based on them.
For the next, and alkimportant, stage I was so exceptionally
fortunate as to secure the help of Mr M. T. Hindson, the value of
whose contribution to the work cannot be overestimated. Mr
Hindson not only had the leisure and critical interest necessary for
undertaking the task of marking, but had pursued until recently the
career of Bank Inspector—a vocation well calculated, one may
suppose, to promote just those qualities of objective judgement and
indifference to tedium wdiich are most necessary here. To say that
I am very deeply indebted to him is seriously to understate the case,
for without his aid the work might well have come virtually to a
standstill for lack of a suitable judge. As it was, his marking,
carried out under carefully planned and maintained conditions of ig-
norance, yielded a highly significant result of the utmost importance.
The 50 originals were given to Mr Hindson arranged in alphabetical
order, that is to say randomised or shuffled from the point of view' of
deciding wdiich belonged to wdiich experiment ;
and I was careful
to remove completely, by cutting off the tops of the sheets, such
numbers or letters as had been used at earlier stages, which might
possibly have identified certain originals as belonging to the same
experiment.
Instructions w'ere contained in a ‘
Guide to Scoring Hits ’, whicli
seems of sufficient importance, in the circumstances, to be w'orth
reproducing as Appendix IV. This ‘
Guide ’
w'as supplemented by
a number of ‘
Notes on Originals ’, which was intended to draw'
attention to various points I had noticed in the course of my owui
marking. The idea, which Mr Hindson adopted, was that the judge
should go through the Notes first, before tackling the work of
marking, and make up his mind w’hat policy he would adopt with
regard to each of the points indicated, before actually meeting with
them, so as to reduce the risk of varying his standard in the course
of the w'ork.
86 Whafehj Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
In })reparing these notes, I was careful always to use either an
interrogative or an imj)erative form, in drawing attention to the
points raised, in order to avoid giving any suggestion as to how I
thought they ought to be dealt with. Examples are :
“ Bottle. This was based on the dictionary word Vacuum
Bottle, which was rejected as too difficult. What will you give
to Carafes, Medicine bottles, Rubber hot-water bottles, Jars, Vases,
etc., etc.?
”
Ewer : In the agent’s mind the distinguishing features were
the handle and the constricted neck. Should full or half hits be
given for two-handled vases? For watering cans, teapots, etc.,
with handles Imt also spouts? For teacups, etc., with handles but
no constriction? For saucepans, etc., with a different sort of
handle? P^or vases, etc., with con,striction but no handle?
”
Flag : It will be necessary to distinguish this from Royal
Standard. The flag drawn is a black flag with a strongly marked
\\ hite Latin Cross. Consider Black Flags (without crosses), Plain
Pdags, Striped Flags, Union Jacks ;
Latin Crosses without Flags ;
Other sorts of Cross ;
also pennants, burgees, etc.”
It will presumably be agreed that notes such as these, while they
may serve a useful purpose in directing the attention of the judge to
the kind of problems he wdll have to solve, contain no suggestion
as to which solution he shoidd adopt in any instance, and still less
(if possible) as to which solution would be favourable to the experi-
ment. These Notes are given in full in Appendix IV.
I hope I need hardly add that, when I discussed the matter with
Mr Hindson, I was most scrupulously careful not to say anything
that could possibly be interpreted as a specific recommendation, in
respect of any original or type of drawing, one way or the other.
I must add that Mr Hindson specifically authorises me to say,
which is imjmrtant, that he had no clue, at any time during the
marking, as to which Originals corresponded to the various batches
of drawings submitted to him, and that neither my written instruc-
tions or verbal comments influenced him in any way towards
assigning marks to drawings in respect of one Original rather than
another.
In other words, he did the marking completely ‘
blind ’
in every
relevant sense, so that his results may be accepted as wholly without
bias, and I venture to assert without much fear of contradiction that
data obtained under these conditions cannot plausibly be assailed
even by the most exacting criticism. I accordingly take Mr
Hindson’s figures as fundamental in the whole of the investigation
of this group of exjieriments that follows. Only these figures, be it
162]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Draivings 87
noted, and such others as may be derived from them by rigidly
objective processes, are eligible for consideration from the strictly
evidential point of view ;
and only results obtained from them will
be claimed as evidence : though, as we shall see later, figures
derived from other judgements, into which subjective factors might
theoretically be supposed to have entered to some extent, if in
practice they probably or apparently did not, may be of considerable
interest from the standpoint of information as opposed to evidence.
Alternative Markings : The next points I wish to discuss will be
best understood if I describe the circumstances which gave rise to
them.
When the drawings of the first experiment, with their assigned
points, were returned to me by Mr Hindson, I found that he was
marking on a very much more generous scale than I myself had done ;
for on these 37 sets he had given a total of 272-5 points where 1 had
given only 93-0—a ratio of almost exactly 3 to 1. This meant that
he had been using a very much lower standard, or ‘
level of accept-
ance ’, than I had used ;
but it did not, of course, mean that his
marking was necessarily in any sense ‘
worse ’
(or ‘
better ’) than
mine, for the optimum standard to adopt for detecting a real effect,
if there is one, can clearly only be found by experiment. It might
quite well happen, indeed—and apparently does—that many
resemblances much less noticeable than those which I myself would
reckon as ‘ palpable hits ’
are yet to some extent inspired, so to say,
by the originals and, if this were so, a standard of marking which
counted them would be preferable to one that did not. But at the
time in question I was full, to the point of obsession, with the idea
that it was very important to keep the standard as high as possible ;
this was partly in reaction from the disaj)pointing results of the
Method of Decimal Scoring, in which marks so low as one tenth of
the maximum could be given for faint resemblances and associations,
and partly because I knew from my own marking that the use of a
lugh standard would lead to significant results.^ It was not
unnatural, therefore, that I became apprehensive lest the adoption
of so much lower a standard might result in a serious and possibly
fatal dilution of the effect I had good reason to suppose was there.
^ I suppose I must point out here that the fact of my own marking being
inadmissible as strict evidence in favoiu’ of the occurrence of a real effect,
does not render it useless as a guide ; on the contrary, the fact that it was
very carefully and conscientiously done by the person who knew more than
anyone else about the originals might well compensate for the possibilities
of unwitting bias already mentioned. I knew very well that though I could
not claim it as evidentially rigid, there was uncommon little wrong with it.
w.w.c.
88 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
I accordingly asked Mr Hindsoii to raise his standard somewhat 1
1
in future, and at the same time I cast about in my mind for some ,
method of eliminating the feebler resemblances, if need be, on as
objective a basis as possible.^ I
As regards the first, I may say that Mr Hindson adjusted himself !
to my demands with great success ;
in marking Expts. II to IV B, !
he gave 57(b0 points as compared with my 466 -0, which is a ratio of i
only about 1-25 to 1.
*
As for the second, I finally decided on the plan of picking out all
the drawings on the marking of which Mr Hindson and I did not
exactly agree ^ and submitting them to independent arbitration. ;
This seemed the best practicable expedient in the circumstances,
which were intrinsically somewhat difficult (August 1939), even '
though it was not absolutely rigid evidentially, for reasons which I i
shall discuss in a moment. I wanted, first of all, to be quite satisfied
in my own mind that the residts of the marking I had done were not
due to pathological aberrations on my part ;
so that in the event of
Mr Hindson’s nrarking yielding null results I could be reasonably |
sure that this was due to his employing too generous a standard and |
not to there being notliing to detect. If, on the other hand, Mr
Hindson’s unarbitrated marking were to lead to a significant positive 1
result (as it did) no harm would be done ;
on the contrary, a very
approximately rigid alternative assessment of this kind, using an
apjireciably higher standard than Mr Hindson’s, could hardly fail
|
to be of considerable interest from the comparative point of view.^
There are two reasons why these arbitrated figures may not be
perfectly rigid. First : It might be suggested that I myself, wittingly
or unwittingly, had marked potential winners with generosity and
potential losers with meanness. If this were so. and if, as was the
case, Mr Hindson marked much more generously all round, the result
would be that relatively few potential winners would come up for
arbitration, because he would have passed most of my judgements ;
but there would be many potential losers, because I should have
disagreed in advance with his losing selections. If then, as was also
This raising of the standard could not affect the evidential value of the
results obtained, hut it was unquestionably an error as regards extracting the
maxiniura of information from the material.
- I.e. including those to which one of us gave a full mark and the other a
half, as well as those to which one gave a full or half mark and the other
nothing.
3 External circumstances, I may remark, made it imjrracticable to postpone
action until after all Mr Hindson's figures had been received, collated and
computed.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Dratvings 89
the case, the arbitrators were urged to adopt a high standard, these
losers would be extensively rejected. As a result, the j^roportion
of winners would be unfairly inflated. This supposition is contra-
indicated by the evidence. Mr Hindson’s 1,209 original entries
contain 280 or 23T6% potential winners, while the 934 entries sub-
mitted for arbitration contain 213, or 22-81 ;
the difference is
trivial by inspection.
Second : Professor C. D. Broad and Professor H. H. Price very
kindly consented to do the arbitrating. Of these, the former had
considerable knowledge of the originals, though the latter had not,
and it is not altogether impossible that this knowledge might have
introduced some slight measure of unconscious bias into some of the
judgements. But this also lacks material support. If such a
tendency were appreciably operative, we should expect to And
Professor Broad giving considerably more points to winners and
fewer to losers as compared with Professor Price. There is a very
slight tendency to this effect to be observed in the 586 cases in
which independent judgements from both are available ;
^ but when
the figures are tested for significance by the ordinary 2x2 method,
we And that a discrejiancy as large as that observed, or larger,
would occur a shade more often than not by the operation of chance
alone.
We may accordingly conclude that, although the arbitrated
figures are not evidentially impeccable, they are none the less
entirely satisfactory for all practical purposes, and may be safely
used wherever information rather than the highest grade of evidence
is in question ;
for the latter, we may rely on the unarbitrated
Hindson figures and their derivatives.
Derived Figures : I have already pointed out that a genuine effect,
if present, might be obscured by either too generous or too strict a
standard of marking, and a moment’s reflection will show that there
must be some optimum standard which will bring out to the best
advantage whatever effect there may be. It is clearly of consider-
able practical interest to ascertain, if we can, whether we are
approximating to this optimum, or whether, in future work, we
should do better to employ appreciably higher or lower standards.
This can, of course, only be done by varying the standard in both
directions and seeing whether the best result (after making due
allowance for differences in the size of the sample) lies between these
limits. It is fortunately possible to do this very easily, and perfectly
^ Professor Price was unfortunately unable to complete the whole of the
work. For the latter part of Expt. IV A and the whole of IV B, the onus of
arbitration fell on Professor Broad alone.
F
90 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
objectively, in the case of any set of data scored on the full mark,
half mark, or zero method ;
for changing all half marks into full
marks will give us the effect of using a lower standard, while changing
them into zeros will be equivalent to raising the standard. In the
one case we treat all doubtful assessments as full fledged winners,
which may weil be over-generous ;
in the other we treat them all as
misses, which is likely to err on the side of strictness.^ These
figures, which will be discussed in due course, were easily obtained
from the original Hindson data, but to obtain the arbitrated figures
and their derivatives called for considerable care and labour in
tabulation and checking.
Tabulation, etc. : I began, as already implied, by preparing lists
of all drawings about which Mr Hindson and I did not exactly agree ;
but to these I added a considerable number about which we did
agree, either because I was not altogether confident that even our
agreed judgement was sound, or because it seemed to me that our
policy had not been wholly consistent. From these lists, after the
arbitrators had recorded their judgements on them, I prepared
Summaries of Arbitration ’
for the drawings of each experiment
in turn. Each such summary show'ed, for the drawings of the
experiment concerned as compared with each of the 50 originals,
(a) the number of hits on the origitial as agreed by Mr Hindson and
myself and not submitted to arbitration, (b) the number of drawings
submitted which were unanimously discarded by the arbitrators,
(c) in detail, the mark given by each arbitrator to those drawings
they did not unanimously discard, and (d) the lower of these two
marks, if different. This last was because it was agreed at the time
that, in the interests of conservatism ’
and to maintain a high
standard, the lower of the two arbitrations should be taken ;
but
there was, of course, nothing binding or sacrosanct about this
decision, and I shall also give the results obtained by taking the
higher of the two : note that, since there was only one arbitrator
for the latter part of IV A and the whole of IV B, the ‘
high ’
and
low arbitrations are identical in this region. From these Sum-
maries it was easy enough to extract the requisite information,
namely the number of hits scored by the drawings of each experiment
on the originals of their own and of the other exjieriments.
W hen I had done this, I retabulated the wdiole of the data de novo,
on a larger and more elaborate scale, in a kind of Master Table
arranged by Originals in alphabetical order instead of by Experi-
ments in chronological order, and showing every entry made by
* Mutatis mutandis, a similar procedure may be applied to all data obtained
from a graduated system of marking.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Draivings 91
Mr Hindson or myself and the j
udgements of both arbitrators whether
unanimous or not. By collecting the same figures from this Table
as from the Summaries and comparing the two, I was able to detect
any discrepancies there might be and to track them to their origin.
At the same time I checked through all the arbitrators’ decisions
(and a great many of Mr Hindson’s and my own) with a view to
detecting inconsistencies of marking. A few instances were found
and submitted to Professor Broad for a ruling, which was then
apphed to all relevant cases. A few more drawings were discovered
which had somehow managed to slip through the net, e.g. had
inadvertently been omitted from arbitration ;
there were not more
than ten or a dozen of these, and nearly all could be conhdently
marked by analogy with others of the same kind on which the
arbitrators had given decisions ;
in only some three or four cases
was I obliged to rely on my own judgement, and in these I was
careful, so far as was compatible with common sense, to weight the
marking against rather than in favour of the effect looked for.
Thus the arbitrated figures, while lacking the perfect evidential
rigidity of the Hindson unarbitrated, represent the product of an
extremely careful and conscientious attempt to form considered
composite judgements, using a somewhat higher standard than
Mr Hindson, on the part of judges who, where they had knowledge
that might bias the result, did their best to discount it. For certain
purposes, such as determining the magnitude of the effect at the
level of acceptance adopted, these figures, despite their lack of
complete rigidity, are preferable to any single judgement however
‘
blind ’
it may have been.
To Sum up : The Method is based on the very simple plan of
marking all drawings against all originals, giving a full mark if a
drawing plainly resembles any original, nothing if it does not, and
a half mark if there is real doubt. Mr Hindson had no kind of clue
as to which drawings were aimed at which originals, so that his
figures and their derivatives may be taken as completely rigid. The
arbitrated figures, though theoretically less perfect, are practically
reliable and amply good enough for informative purposes.
SECTION IV
Results
A. Main Results
la. Calculation of the Main Results from the Hindson original
Figures : We are now in a position to approach the central and
92 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
crucial point of the whole enquiry, namely the question of whether
or not percipients tend, to a significant extent, to score relatively
more ‘
hits ’
on the originals of the experiment in which they are
engaged than they do on those of experiments in which they are not
engaged.
The simple mathematical technique necessary for this purpose
has been discussed above, and we will start by applying it to Mr
Hindson’s unarbitrated and unmodified figures. These are shown
tabulated in the appropriate manner at the top of Example I, p. 132,
where the whole calculation is given in full.
This Table should be interpreted as follows : When the originals
were removed from the alphabetical sequence in which they had
been given to Mr Hindson and were regrouped according to the
experiments in which they were used, it was found that the drawings
done by the percipients of Expt. I had been credited with 5T5 hits
on the originals used in Expt. I, with 77-5 on those used in Expt. II,
with 36-5 on those of Expt. Ill, with 25-0 on those of Expt. IV A,
and with 82-0 on those of Ex])t. IV B, making a total of 272-5
assorted liits by these percipients. Similarly the percipients of
Expt. II scored 7-0 hits on the originals of Expt. I, 18-0 on those of
their own experiment, 12-5 on the originals of Expt. Ill, and so on
throughout the Table, which shows a grand total of 848-5 hits scored
on all originals l)y all percipients put together. Alternatively, we
may read along the lines instead of down the columns to the effect
that the originals of Expt. I had 51-5 hits scored on them by the
percipients of Expt. I, 7-0 by the percipients of Expt. II, 5-5 by those
of Expt. Ill, and so forth, showing a total of 127-5 scored on them
altogether. Either w'ay, it is clear that the figures in the diagonally
placed cells, set in heavy type, are the ‘
winners ’
in which we are
interested, while all the others are ‘
losers ’. Summing the figures
in the diagonal cells, we find 201-5 as the total number of winners
scored ;
but this is of no use to us unless we also know (a) how many
winners we should expect to find, given the known number of hits
by each group of percipients and on each series of originals, if chance
alone were operative, and (6) the extent to which this expected
number is likely to vary under these conditions.
Recapitulating an earlier passage, we know that 127-5 hits out
of a grand total of 848-5 are scored on the originals of Expt. I
;
that is to say, the fraction
127-5
848-5
of all hits. Since, on the null
hypothesis, there is no reason to suppose that one group of perci-
pients would score relatively more or less on these originals than
any other, we should expect this fraction of the total hits scored by
I
I
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 93
any group of percipients to be hits on the originals of Expt. I.
particular, we should expect
127-5
848-5
of 272-5 to be the number
In
of
hits scored on the originals of Expt. I by the percipients of Expt. I.
This comes to about 41 hits expected, so it is clear that, in this case,
expectation has been handsomely exceeded. Thus, to find the
expected number of winners in any case, we multiply the appropriate
col umn total by the corresponding row total and divide the product
by the Grand Total. ^ But since we are only interested here in the
total expected number of winners, and not in the expectation in
each experiment separately, it is quicker to multiply the column and
row totals in pairs, sum the products, and divide the sum by 848-5.
This is shown in the first step of the Example, where it will be seen
that the sum of the products concerned amounts to 138,545-25
;
dividing this by 848-5 we find the total expected number of winners,
E„„ to be 163-28. Subtracting this from 0„„ the observed number,
which we have already found to be 201-50, we obtain for D, the
difference between them, a value of 38-22. That is to say, according
to Mr Hindson’s marking, the percipients have succeeded in obtain-
ing between them some 38 more hits, or 23%, on the originals at
which they were aiming than we should expect them to do if chance
alone were responsible. This sounds very fairly impressive, but
whether it really is so, or whether it is the kind of fluctuation
we might reasonably expect under chance conditions, cannot be
decided until we have found the appropriate measure of chance
fluctuation, namely the variance, in the manner already indicated.
We start by summing the corresponding column and row totals
in pairs and then multiply each of these sums, a + b, by the pre-
viously determined product ah, thus obtaining a new series of
products ah{a + h), which are listed in the Example and have a total
value of 57,863,437-000. The work of calculating the variance is
then more or less self-explanatory. We write down the square of
the sum of the ah products and add to it the result of multiplying
the sum of those products by the square of the total number of hits ;
from this we subtract the sum of the compound products ab{a -f h)
multiplied by the total number of hits. Dividing this by N^(N - 1)
1 It should be noted that this procedure automatically allows for the
varying ‘ popularity ’
of the originals of the different experiments ;
for this
is measured empirically by the total number of hits scored on the originals
concerned by all the percipients taken together, i.e. by the marginal totals
127-5, 181-0, etc., and the expected numbers calculated are proportional to
these. Mutatis mutandis, the same is true of the differing numbers, or
activity, of the percipients in the various exjjeriments.
94 Whately Carington, M.A., M.8c. [part
gives us the variance, n-, whicli we find comes to 114-468. Taking
the square root of this gives the Standard Error, a, of 10-699, and
wlien we divide this into the value of 38-22 already determined for D,
we obtain a ‘
normal deviate ’, D/n, of 3-572 ;
that is to say, the i
observed deviation of 38-22 hits in excess of expectation is more (
than three and a lialf times its standard error. Reference to the
appropriate Tal)les, and interpolation, shows that a deviation of this
magnitude or greater mag be expected less than once in a thousand such
cases, or about once in 2,944, as the result of chance alone.
The result is highly .significant, and the chance hypothesis would be
regarded as disjjroved in any normal context. I
16. Main Results from Ilindson 'derived' figures: We may
next ap]dy precisely the same method to the figures derived from I
Mr Hindson’s original data (a) by turning all his half points into i
full points, that is, by treating all his entries as of equal value,
(6) by counting all his half points as zeros {i.e.
'
misses ’) and using j
only those entries to which he gave a full point in the first instance.
As already observed, these figures are every whit as rigid evidentially i
as the unmodified version, but correspond to a lowering and raising 1
of the standard in the two cases respectively. For comparison, we
will also work two results of some interest from the half points taken ;
by themselves and treated simply as ‘
entries ’. There is no need
to tabulate these data in full, or to reproduce the calculations, which
exactly follow the jmocedure of Example I. ;
The results are of consideralde interest, particularly when com- i
pared with that already olitained, which is included in Talde 4 below
for ease of reference. The successive lines of the Table show :
The total number of points given, the expected number of ‘
winners ’,
the observed number, the difference between these, the value of
the normal deviate, the proliability of such a difference (or a greater)
|
arising liy chance alone, and the difference expressed as a percentage i
of the total number of points, the use of which I shall explain later. !
Table 4
Half and Full Points Half Points only
Halves Halves
as As as All Rejected
Wholes ^
Marked Misses Halves Halves
N 1209 848-5 488 721 546
227-01 1 63-28 100-62 128-90 93-76
280 201-5 123 157 110
1) 52-99 38-22 22-38 28-10 16-24
D/o- 4-166 3-572 2-772 2-924 2-043
P< -000,1 -001 -01 -01 -05
1()()D/N 4-383 1-501 4-586 3-897 2-974
1 These are laiowa as the ‘
All Entries ’
figures and arc extensively used
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 95
It wll be seen that all the first four results are handsomely
significant, and that the effect of lowering the standard is to push
the value of P beyond the one in ten thousand point. No one can
reasonably ask more from a test of significance than this, and the
supposition that the observed excess of winning over losing hits is
due to chance may be dismissed with considerable assurance.
I hope no one will imagine that the foregoing treatment of the
material is no more than an illegitimate monkeying with the data
undertaken with a view to extracting a more impressive significance
from them than they properly contain. My object is, rather, to
throw light on the method of assessment adopted, both intrinsically
and as handled by Mr Hindson ;
and this, I think, the figures given
succeed in doing with some success.
It is at once evident from an inspection of the Table that I
maligned Mr Hindson in suspecting that he w^as using too low a
standard, and that I was wrong in supposing that a very high
standard was necessary or even desirable ;
on the contrary, as will
be seen, the improbability of the result being due to chance alone
is raised more than ten-fold by ignoring the difference between half
and whole points and treating all entries as of equal importance, as
is done in the first column of the Table.^ If, on the other hand, we
throw the half points out altogether, as under ‘
Halves as Misses ’,
the significance is greatly diminished. So it is clear that the halves
make a very useful contribution to the result instead of being, as I
had feared, a dangerous diluent. Moreover, if we separate out the
half points and treat them simply as ‘
entries ’, by themselves, as is
done under ‘
Half Points Only : All Halves ’, we find that they yield
a strongly significant result. Finally, even those half points which
were rejected by myself and at least one arbitrator as not up to so
much aiS ‘
doubtful ’
by our standard (‘ Rejected Halves ’
in the
Table) give a result just better than the conventional level of
significance.
We are accordingly led towards the very interesting conclusion
that the process of cognition involved is not an all or none affair,
but that, on the contrary, the more remote resemblances may often
represent just as genuine an effect as the closer, even if it be more
difficult to detect. But before accepting this conclusion, even
provisionally, there are two possibihties which must be considered.
First : May it be that the drawings receiving half points are
largely those which are badly drawn? I am fairly sure that this is
below. For this reason, and as a matter of interest, details of the data,
with the various expectations and differences, are given in full in Table I,
p. 134, q.v.
96 Whately Carington, 31. A., 31.Sc. [part
not the case, though I do not see how I could easily justify my
belief. But it is scarcely more than a matter of common sense to
realise that the veriest scrawl of a Tree, a Boat, a Jug, an Anchor,
a Balance, a Cow, a Butterfly, and so forth, will be unmistakeably
recognisable, which is all that is necessary to gain a full point.
Moreover, the instructions (q.v.) were explicit as to disregarding
lack of skill in draughtsmanship and, I am confident, were duly
followed. The situations which led to the giving of half points were
rather those in which it Avas necessary to decide whether the clearly
depicted object was near enough to the original in nature to justify
a point being given. For examples : Is the outline of a Latin
Cross to be given anything for Flag, in which a cross is the most
conspicuous feature? Should a snail have a point for Shell?
Should a steamer, or a roAving boat, or a gondola, have one for Boat?
What sort of leaves are like enough to those in Exfoliate to justify
a point? In very many cases such as these the judge would end by
giving a half point ;
and it is they, together with a certain number
of vague, as opposed to ill-executed, drawings which are mainly
responsible for the large number of half-point entries.
Second, there is the possibility that Mr Hindson may have been
exceptionally chary of giving full points at all, and may have
diffidently given half points where a less cautious marker would have
given Avholes. I think I am prepared to go so far as to say that this
is quite definitely not the case. Mr Hindson gives a total of 488 full
points ;
I ap])ear to have given 453, so that he is slightly more lavish
than I am—not less—though only by about 7-1%. On the other
hand, only 175 of his 721 half points surAuve arbitration at all, and
only 5 are converted by the arl)itrators into full points ;
so he clearly
has not marked a large number of ‘ palpable hits ’
too low. What
he has done is to be appreciably more generous in the mattw of full
points than I, and to give no fewer than 721 half points to my 212.
This is in no sense a reflection on his marking, which, in my opinion,
would be difficult to improve upon. On the contrary, because he
AA^as quite free from bias, as no one AA’ho ‘
kneAv the answer ’
could
possibly be, and could approach the AA’ork Avith a free and open mind
devoid of guess-foTinded obsessions, he was able to recognise a large
number of resemblances AAdfich I aa^us afraid to admit for fear of
‘
dilution ’, though they were in fact to an important extent non-
fortuitous.
On the other hand, his half-point entries are of a lower quality,
as is to lie expected, than his full-point ;
and it Avill be well to devote
a few paragra])hs to this question of ‘
quality ’
before we go on to
discuss the arbitrated data.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 97
2. Measures of Quality : At the beginning of an investigation of
this kind we are, very properly, chiefly interested in deciding whether
any real effect occurs at all ;
but as soon as our basic experiments
have given a sufficiently significant result to satisfy us, even
provisionally, that this is the case and that there is something worth
studying in our material—and we may certainly claim to have
achieved this here—we shall want to answer questions of a much less
simple character. For example, we shall want to know whether
one group of percipients is relatively more successful than another,
whether women do better than men, and so forth. In all such cases
it will often be necessary to use some measure of success which is
independent of the total number of hits recorded, for in general this
will merely be proportional to the number of percipients concerned.
At the moment, it would be of interest to know whether some stan-
dards, or methods of judging, are more efficient than others, in the
sense of enabling us to select from the raw material a group of
dramngs containing a higher ratio of genuinely cognised specimens
to fortuitous resemblances, as opposed to being merely more effective,
in the sense of yielding a higher level of significance.
For it is not to be imagined that all ‘
winner ’
resemblances,
however close, in a sample showing a significant result, however
high, are necessarily the result of genuine cognition ;
some are, we
may be sure, for otherwise the significant result woidd not be
obtained, but others will be purely fortuitous, and I see no means at
present of telling which are which with any kind of assurance. And
it might well be of importance, for some pur])oses, to employ
material having the highest possible ratio of genuine to fortuitous
hits.
Now it is easy to see that, if there is a real effect, then of two
samples of different sizes but identical constitution the larger will
show the higher significance, simply because it is larger ;
indeed, a
large sample of low quality may even prove more significant than a
small sample of higher quality. To a close approximation, if there
is a real effect and N is large, the effect of multiplying the size of the
sample by n, will be to multiply the value of the normal deviate by
Jn ;
thus, we may reduce two samples of different sizes to level
terms by dividing the normal deviate in each case by ,yN. But
this gives a result approximately proportional to D/N. It is for
this reason that I have here adopted the percentage of excess
winners, lOOD/N, as the most appropriate criterion of quality to
use here.
Referring now to Table 4, let us see what light this throws on what
has been going on. In the first place, we see that, although the
98 Whately Garingion, M.A., M.Sc. [pabt
signiHcance falls as the standard is raised, the quality rises ;
but the
rise over the first three columns is very small, and some way from
significance, fliough in the expected sense. This would appear to
imply that the full ])oints given are not worth very much more than
the half points, and to a certain extent I think this is true ;
for I
have the im])ression that some of Mr Hindson’s full-point markings
were a trifle optimistic, and we shall see later that a considerably
higher value of Q (as I may conveniently call all such measures of
quality) is obtained from those full-point entries of which no one
concerned had any doubts. On the other hand, we find a noticeable
drop in quality, as we should expect, when the half points are
isolated and treated by themselves, and this is still more marked
when we consider only the halves rejected by the arbitrators.
From these facts we may fairly confidently draw the following
conclusions, which are not without importance :
1 . 1 he cognitive process involved is not of an all or none character.
That is to say, it may manifest itself in the production of drawings
which are by no means umnistakeable likenesses of the originals
(witness : All Halves ’) and even in such as bear what many people
would consider no more than faint resemblances to them (witness ;
‘
Rejected Halves ’).
2. The lower limit of useful resemblance, if I may put it so, is
probably being approached by Mr Hindson’s more optimistic half-
])oint markings ;
for the Rejected Halves, of which we have the very
considerable number of 54(1, only just creej) over the conventional
significance level. If the standard were to be made much lower, it
seems probable that either there would be no effect at all, or at best
that serious dilution ’
would begin to set in. I may easily be wrong
here, and further work alone can show where, if anywhere, the
idtiniate effective hmit lies ;
but at present it looks as if the mesh of
Mr Hindson’s net had been cunningly chosen so as to bring in pretty
well all the worth-while fi.sh.
3. The fact that the values of Q vary just about as we should
expect them to do goes some way towards assuring us that the effect
is a well-behaved citizen of the scientific world ; it would have been
very disconcerting if we had found, for example, that the fainter
resemblances were of higher quality than the stronger!
3. Main Results from Arbitrated Figures : As I have emphasised
above, results obtained from the Hindson unarbitrated figures are
alone to be regarded as completely rigid from the strictest point of
view ;
but, for reasons explained, the arbitrated figures have certain
merits of their own. Since the process of arbitration has already
been fully described, we may proceed at once to the results, which
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognitiori of Drawings 99
are given in Table 5 below. To the arlhtrated results proper I have
added, as a matter of interest, those obtained from my own mark-
ing and by treating all entries, whether by Mr Hindson or myself,
on the same lines as in the first column of Table 4 : these must be
treated as suspect, and no conclusions are based on them. The
calculations were, of course, as shown in Example I.
Table 5
W.W.C. and Arbiti•ated Full
tv.w.c. Hindson High Low Points
N 559 1329 558-5 486 314
E 128-88 260-53 122-24 113-46 71-41
0. 166-5 323 1 60-5 140-5 90
D 37-62 62-47 38-26 27-04 18-59
4-052 4-564 4-054 3-158 2-770
P< -000,1 10-5 -000,1 -01 -01
Q 6-730 4-701 6-8.50 5-564 5-920
Mean P <-001 (1/3,588)
Q 6-252
The first two columns are self-explanatory ;
the third gives the
results obtained by taking the higher of the two arbitraments where
there is a choice ;
the fourth those of taking the lower : the fifth
is obtained by discarding all entries about which anyone concerned
had indicated a doubt by giving a half point or less, even if others
had given a full point.
Note first the high values reached as regards Imth significance and
quality by my own marking ;
it is fairly clear that either my know-
ledge was too much for my efforts to discount it, or that the quite
legitimate factor of my understanding of what had been in the
agents’ minds j^roved valuable ;
unfortunately we cannot distin-
guish with certainty between the two hypotheses. But note also
that these values are fractionally exceeded l)y the ‘
High ’
arbitrated
figures ;
as there is no real reason for suspecting these at all seriously,
it looks as if my efforts to discount my own bias had been reasonably
successful and that the second alternative exerted (as I personally
believe) an appreciable influence on the outcome.
Since there is nothing to choose so far as I can see, between the
High and the Low versions of the arbitrated figures, except that the
latter is the more ‘
conservative ’
—which is not necessarily a virtue
—I have given, at the bottom of the Table, values of P and Q
obtained from the means of the two sets of figures. It will be
noticed that they closely agree with the unmodified Hindson figures
as regards significance, but achieve this result with the use of only
100 Whntely Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
522 points (mean) instead of 848-5 ;
that is to say, the quality of
the sample obtained by the exercise of collective judgement is better
than that from a single marker. This is only what one would expect,
on the general ground that two heads are better than one ;
but it
may be of some practical importance. It suggests the possibility
that the best way to extract tlie most significant result from a given
number of drawings may be to employ a plurality of judges working
to a low standard rather than a single judge working to a high
standard, and to test successively the data on which they all, all
but one, all but two, etc., agree—thus finding empirically the
optimum cut-off point, which is presumably that at which good
resemblances begin to pass into fanciful.
4. Summary : The results just discussed, above all those of
Table 1 ,
are of fundamental importance to the whole enquiry. They
show clearly that it is in a very high degree improbable that the
observed excesses of winning over losing hits are due to chance alone.
If chance alone were operative, we should expect to find such a
result as that of the Hindson ‘
All Entries ’
occurring on the average
only once in some thirty-three thousand similar groups of experi-
ments. It is accordingly very unlikely that we are being led astray
by fortuitous resemblances. Sceptics must either find a flaw in the
experimental procedure or conditions of marking, or show (which
seems to me an impossible task) that the antecedent improbability
of such a phenomenon is at least comparable with the figure just
given, or take refuge in avowed intransigeance. Meanwhile, we may
regard the occurrence of a genuine cognitive process under the
conditions described as provisionally demonstrated, to a point
which amply justifies continued study and repetition by others of
experiments of the kind described.
\\ e also conclude that the cognitive process is not of an all or none
character, so that comparatively remote resemblances may be
genuine in the sense of being non-fortuitous ;
and that, consequently,
the use of a very high standard is not necessarily the best way of
separating the wheat from the chaff.
B. Displacement
1. General
:
The apparent tendency for an original to be repro-
duced by the percipient on some occasion other than that on which
it was exposed was noted in the first experiment and has already
been mentioned. If this apparent tendency is real (as we shall see
that it is) there can be no doubt that it is a matter of the first im-
portance. If it occurs in one direction only, namely that of making
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 101
the reproduction appear after the occasion of exposure of the
original, there would be a suggestion that the impression received
may require some period of gestation in the subconscious before it
can emerge into consciousness and be recorded, or perhaps that it
only emerges when some relevant extraneous stimulus gives it the
necessary fillip ;
and either of these or similar conclusions would
be of appreciable psychological interest. But if it occurs in the
opposite sense, so that reproductions tend to appear before the
exposure of the originals which they resemble we should be con-
fronted (in so far as the effect was significant) with empirical evidence
of a new type for the occurrence of a phenomenon of a precognitive
character ;
and this would be of the very greatest interest from all
manner of viewpoints beside the purely psychological.
The matter is accordingly one which must be investigated with
the utmost care and rigour, and it will be well to begin by clearing
the air of one or two potential misconceptions.
The one thing we must not do, of course, is to claim as precognitive
every resemblance ^ that occurs before its original and as retro-
cognitive every one that occurs after it ;
for this would be merely
begging the question. In other words, we must decide before we
start on what the words precognitive and retrocognitive may
reasonably and usefully be supposed to mean.
It is, as usual, a matter of observed as compared with expected
occurrences. We can usefully and validly speak of retrocognitions
only if we find a number of resemblances, significantly greater than
the hypothesis of chance would lead us to expect, on some date or
dates later than the relevant event ;
and vice versa for precognitions.
Beyond this we cannot safely go before we have studied the facts,
though our general experience might lead us to expect a continuous
falhng off in the frequency of the resemblances as the remoteness
from the event increases. And we should have no right to complain,
if some to be surprised, if it were found that the falhng off were of a
periodic or fluctuating character. But our general knowledge of
the way in which all kinds of phenomena occur suggests that, if
pre- and retro- cognition be both phenomena of nature, the relative
frequency of hits on a given original is likely to increase as the
occasion on which a drawing was made approaches that on which the
original was displayed, to reach a maximum at or near the coincidence
of the two, and to fall off again as the former recedes from the latter.
^ The words ‘
resemblance ‘
reproduction ’
and ‘
hit ’
may be regarded as
interchangeable and as denoting a drawing sufficiently like an original to have
been scored by the judge. The degree of resemblance does not concern us
at this stage.
102 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part N
Our business therefore is to calculate from the observed data the 1
1
number of hits expected to occur on occasions one, two, three, etc.,
places before, and one, two, three, etc., places after, the event
1
1
concerned, namely the exposure of an original, and to compare these l
calculated values with the numbers actually observed.
2. Illustration of Procedure : To illustrate the procedure, which |
becomes lal)orious when large numbers of occasions and originals
j
are involved, we will take the relatively simple case, of no special \
importance intrinsically, of the originals and occasions of the first
experiment.^
The tabulated data and the results of the calculations are shown in
Example II, p. 13.3, the first part of which should be read as follows :
On the first occasion one hit was scored on the first original (Bracket),
on the second and third occasions no hits, on the fourth occasion one
hit, on the fifth two hits, etc., ... a total of 7 ‘
hits ’
or resemblances <
to the original Bracket being found among the drawings of the first
experiment percipients. Or alternatively : Among the drawings
done on the first occasion there were found one resembling Bracket,
one resembling Buffalo, none resembling Fess or Hand, two resem-
bling Cross-stitch, etc., etc., ... a total of .5 hits on one or other of
the originals of Expt. 1 being found among the drawings done on
the first occasion.
It will at once be realised that the figures in the ‘
leading diagonal
’
shown in heavy type, represent the numbers of hits scored on the
several originals on the occasions on which they were exposed ;
that
is to say, liits not dis])laced in either direction but coinciding with
the event—or, more accurately, occurring within the period of
exposure, which constitutes coincidence for our purpose. It is also
easy to see that the next diagonal upwards and to the right, parallel
to the leading diagonal, contains the numbers of hits scored on the
occasion immediately after the event, of which there were one for
Buffalo, one for Hand, two for Cross-stitch, two for Bottle, etc. ;
whereas the diagonal l)elow and to the left of the leading diagonal
shows the numbers of hits scored on the occasion immediately before
the event, of which there were only one for Buffalo, one for Bat and
two for Net. Similarly, as we proceed outward from the leading
diagonal, we find diagonals containing the numbers of hits scored
on the second, third, fourth, etc., occasions before or after, as the
case may be, that on which the original they resemble was exposed.
Our task is to determine whether there is any significant tendency
for the observed numbers in these diagonals to exceed their
* I again use the Hindsoii ‘
All Ihitries ’
data, and shall do so henceforward
unless otherwise expressly stated.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 103
expected values as we approach the leading diagonal from either
direction, or both.
The procedure is simple enough in principle, and is basically the
same as that which we adopted for obtaining the expected numbers
of hits on the originals of a particular experiment by the drawings
of that experiment when we were calculating the main results, q.v.
The number of hits to be expected in any ‘
cell ’
or compartment
of the 10 X 10 Table of Example II is obtained by multiplying
together the two marginal totals concerned and dividing the product
by the total number of hits. Taking the extreme bottom left-hand
corner as an example, we note that only one hit was scored by these
percipients on the original Anchor, being 1/81 of the total ;
alto-
gether, five hits were scored on these ten originals on the first
occasion ;
so, if no cause other than chance is operative, we should
expect the same proportion of Anchors among these first occasion
hits as in the total, viz. 1/81, from which it follows that the actual
expected number of hits will be 5/81, or -062. In practice, of
course, one cannot have -U62 of a hit, and the expectations in
individual cells are far too small to be useful or interesting, but this
does not affect the principle involved. Eor the next diagonal nearer
the centre, the expectation vdll be (3 x 5)/81 for the Beetle cell, and
(1 X 7)/81 for the Anchor cell, making a total of 22/81, or -272. In
short, to determine the expected number of hits in any diagonal we
sum the products of the successive pairs of marginal totals concerned
and divide by the total number of hits in the Table. When we do
this, we obtain the figures given under E in the lower part of the
example, where ‘
Diagonal - 9 ’
means the diagonal containing the
hits made nine places before the original to which they refer, and so
forth. 0 is the observed nimiber of hits in these diagonals, as may
be verified from the Table, while the quantity (0-E)/ .yE gives a
measure of the deviation from expectation, reduced to a standard
level, on the hypothesis that chance alone is responsible for the
distribution in the various diagonals.
The Example, as I have said, is only illustrative of procedure
and I do not propose to discuss the not very interesting results in
detail here. The only points worth noting are, first, that the
observed number of hits of zero displacement, i.e., made on the same
occasion as that on which the origmal was exposed, is fractionally
below expectation, instead of being handsomely above as we might
perhaps have expected from the fact that the experiment as a whole
scores 16-54 hits above the expected value ;
second, that, although
the quantities (0-E)/\/E are distressingly ragged and not very
informative as they stand, they do contrive to show a noticeable
104 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [PAET
‘ peak ’
at diagonal 2, while the observed numbers are greater than j |
expectation in the positive (retrocognitive) part of the Table and less
in the negative (precognitive part) ;
these last two facts accord,
though somewhat feebly, with the qualitative impression first
formed to the effect that hits tended to be deferred. The difference i
may be attributed to the fact that the impression was formed on
the basis of the stronger resemblances only, whereas the data of
Example IV include the feebler.
3. Compilation of the 50 x 50 Table : As a matter of historical fact,
I first satisfied myself that there was a displacement effect worth
investigating by a study, on the lines indicated above, of the inter-
experiment data given in Table I, p. 134, but it will be more con-
venient to defer consideration of these for the present and to pro-
ceed at once to the crucial large-scale investigation of all occasions
and all originals taken together.
This involved the preparation of a 50 x 50 Table, a task which
was complicated by the fact that in all cases except Expt. II it was
necessary first to ‘
decode ’
the random numbers which had been
given to the 1,209 drawings involved for use in connection with the
matching technique. In this Table the cross-headings of the rows
from top to bottom were the fifty originals in the order in which they
were exposed in the five successive experiments, and the headings
of the columns from left to right were the fifty successive occasions
on which drawings were made in these experiments. In each cell,
formed by the intersection of a row with a column, was entered the
number of drawings, made on a certain occasion, which the judge
had assigned to a certain original. Nothing would be gained by
presenting the full Table here, particularly as we are not interested
in individual cells, the expectations for which I have not calculated,
but oidy in the total numbers expected and observed in the diagonals.
Nor do I think it would be worth while to give full details for all the
99 diagonals ;
but Table II shows an illustrative sample consisting
of three groups (the second, central and last but one, counting from
the extreme bottom left-hand corner of the 50 x 50 Table) of nine
diagonals each, and the sub-totals for the remaining eight groups of
nine into which the 99 diagonals may conveniently be divided.
This will be sufiicient to show the procedure adopted and the kind
of results obtained. It should be noted that the values of
(0- E)/.,yE and of given in the lines for Sub-totals are obtained
from the sub-total values of 0 and E, and not by summing the
results for individual diagonals ;
that is to say, in computing these
quantities, the data are pooled for each group of diagonals.
It will be seen that the individual values of (0- E)/.^E, in which
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 105
we are chiefly interested, are distinctly irregular ;
but the sub-totals
leave Uttle doubt as to what is going on.
Note, however, before we pass on to discuss these, the very
remarkable ‘
dip ’
at the centre (diagonal 0), with ‘
twin peaks
’
either side of it at - 2 and 2. We will discuss the significance and
interpretation of this at a later stage, but we may note here that the
peak at diagonal 2, where there is an excess of no fewer than 19-384
hits over expectation, is very definitely significant even in the
context of 98 other diagonals, for the value 4-269 gives P less than
-000,02, and even the symmetrically placed peak at - 2 passes the 1
in 4,000 mark.
To bring out the salient features to better advantage, I retabulate
the Group Sub-totals in Table 6 below, and show the values of
(0-E)/^E plotted in Figure I.
Table 6
Group (0-E)/VE
-5 -1-031
-4 -1-973
-3 -1-678
_ 2 •524
-1 1-186.
0 3-873
1 •760
2 - -922
3 -1-262
4 - 2-083
5 - -542.
Precognitive Groups.
Retrocognitive Groups.
The null hypothesis is, of course, to the effect that no diagonal or
group of diagonals is more likely than another to show an excess
or deficit of hits as compared with expectation. According to this,
the values of (0 - E)/ ^/E should be randomly distributed about a
mean of zero with unit standard deviation. This, by inspection,
1 The quantity sJE is, of course, only an approximation to the standard
error of (0 —E). For the extreme case of a diagonal containing only a single
cell, it is clearly very nearly true, since the probability of a hit falling in it
is so small ;
for the leading diagonal of the whole 50 x 50 Table it is 4-883,
while the exact value of the standard error, calculated by Mr Stevens’ formula
is 4-764. The discrepancy is negligible, but on the safe side in the sense of
tending to make the values of (0 - E)j>JE, and consequently of somewhat
too small. On the other hand, it should be noted that the values of are
not necessarily strictly additive, since the distributions in the various diagonals
may not be independent. This, however, will not affect the implications of
the highly systematic arrangement of the points in Fig. I.
106 Whately Garington, M.A., M.Sc. [part ^
they quite evidently are not, so that we hardly need the value of ‘
I
32-09 for S(y^), which gives P just beyond the -001 level of signi- <
ficance, to tell us that the hypothesis is untenable. Moreover, j
deviations from expectation are very fairly symmetrical, as may be
seen at a glance from Figure I, so we may conclude that the pre-
cognitive effect is just about as strongly indicated as the retro-
cognitive.
j
If we wish to satisfy ourselves as to the significance of the two |
sides separately, we may conveniently group the diagonals in seven
groups of seven on each side of the leading diagonal and find the
value of tS(y^) with 7 degrees of freedoni in each case. This gives
Curiously enough, the precognitive effect, which most people
would consider the less probable antecedently, appears to be the
more strongly marked, or at least soniewdiat the better substantiated.
4. Introduction of the Quantity A : The quantity (0-E)/^E is
admirable for testing significance, but has certain disadvantages
from other points of view. Since, from the nature of the calcula-
tions, the total observed and expected frequencies must be equal,
it follows that any excess of the first over the second in one region
must be balanced by a deficiency in another. Thus the fact that
the line in Fig. I goes iq) to a ]:>eak in the middle necessitates a
depression or depressions at one end or both ends ;
consequently
the line is unlikely to represent to the best advantage the true
relation between displacement and incidence of hits.
It would clearly be a matter of the greatest general interest if
we could estaljlish this relation definitely ;
if, that is to say, we
could determine the ‘
law ’
connecting the magnitude of the real
effect with disjilacement. This might well throw light on the
nature of the process involved, or at least enable us to say that the
facts are inconq^atible wdth certain hypotheses. But before we
make even the most tentative steps in this direction we must be
clear in our minds as to the senses in which we are using the terms
‘
magnitude of effect ’
and ‘
displacement ’.
If we were dealing, let us say, with magnetic phenomena, there
would be little room for ambiguity ;
the ‘
magnitude of effect
’
would be measured by the pull in dynes exerted by one magnetic
pole on another or on a piece of iron, and ‘
displacement ’
would be
the distance in centimetres lietween the two, and we should have
little dilficulty in ascertaining that the one varied inversely as the
Precognitive side
Retrocognitive ,,
S (x")
20-979
J 4-481
P
•01
•05
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Draivings 107
square of the other. In this case there is no ‘
magnitude ’
of this
nature that we can measure ;
the phenomenon is a matter of the
relative frequencies with which hits occur in different positions with
respect to the originals on which they are made, and it is in terms
of such frequencies, therefore, that we must conduct our study.
The question of ‘
displacement ’
is not quite so simple, for we may
either consider order alone, without reference to time, as we have
done hitherto ;
or we might transform the horizontal scale of Fig. I
into a true time scale {e.g. astronomical time) and work in terms of
that. For the present, I shall continue to use the bare order, mainly
because it is simplest and has yielded a reasonable looking arrange-
ment of points ;
but it will be necessary, sooner or later, to substitute
the mean values of the astronomical time intervals as abscissae, and
to try to determine whether these, or order alone, are most relevant
to the facts. ^
In these circumstances, the ideal would be an empirically deter-
mined measure of the probability of a hit occurring on an occasion
at any given distance (measured in terms of order) from the original
concerned ;
we could then test various hypotheses regarding the
nature of the phenomenon, leading to correspondingly different
theoretical relations between probability and displacement, and see
whether some were signihcantly more compatible with the facts than
others.
Another way of approaching the point is to suppose that, in
general, it is easier for the percipient to score hits on the originals
nearer to the occasion on which he is working than on those more
remote, and to enquire how ‘
easiness ’
varies with ‘
remoteness ’
;
from this point of view it should at once be clear that the only
possible measure of ‘
easiness ’
is the relative frequency with which
percipients do in fact, on the average, score hits at different remote-
nesses, other things being equal.
The sting of this is found in its tail, for our chief difficulty lies in
the fact that other things are very far from being equal. In the first
place, of course, the numbers of occasions of different type vary
greatly ;
that is to say, with fifty originals, there are fifty occasions
of zero displacement, 49 each with displacement plus one or minus
one, 48 of displacement plus or minus two, and so on down to only
one each with a displacement of plus or minus 49 positions. This
would not matter particidarly if equal numbers of liits were scored
on all occasions and on all originals ;
all we should have to do would
^ At a guess, and as a matter of rash prophecy, I have little doubt that it
will not be astronomical time that will be found most relevant ;
but I do not
wish to embark on an examination of this point at the present stage.
108 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
be to divide the number of hits occurring on each class of occasion
by the number of occasions in that class (i.e. by the number of cells i
in the appropriate diagonal of the 50 x 50 Table), and this would i
give us a series of numbers representing the relative frequencies of
hits with respect to displacement, whicli is what we want.
Unfortunately, from this point of view, originals differ very
widely in po^iularity, in the empirical sense that some are drawn very
much more often than others. Moreover, the number of percipients
working on different occasions may also vary between wide limits
while neither the ‘
markability ’
of their attempts nor the generosity
of the judge can be assumed constant. Clearly, we shall have to
make allowance for all these factors in attempting to estimate the
quantity in which we are interested.
Note before we go on that any diagonal, e.g. of the 50 x 50 Table, i
or of Example II, is built up, so to say, of the hits scored on a
number of different occasions and on an equal number of different
originals ;
the common feature is that all the occasions are displaced
to the same extent from the original on which the hits are scored.
Consider in Example II, for instance, the ‘ plus 2 ’
diagonal,
|
which is that starting in the top line and the third colmnn, running
downward and to the right, terminating opposite Net, and reading
.4 2 1 1 3 3 2. Each of these entries represents the number of
hits scored two occasions later than the original concerned ;
but
both the occasion and the original necessarily vary from entry to
entry. Thus, no hits are scored on Bracket on the third occasion,
which is two occasions later than that on which Bracket was used
as an original, while 4 were scored on Buffalo on the fourth occasion,
which is two occasions after that on which Buffalo was used. But
Buffalo was much more popular than Bracket (15 hits altogether as
compared with 7), while the percijhents of the experiment scored
altogether 10 hits of sorts, on the originals of the experiment, on the
fourth occasion as compared with five on the third. This should
serve to make it clear why, in considering the relative merits of
different positions considered qua displacement, we must correct the
observed absolute number of hits, not only for the number of
occasions of each type considered but also for the ‘
popularity ’
of
the originals and the ‘
activity ’
of the percipients concerned. The
first of these terms is self-explanatory, and is measured by the total
number of hits made on the relevant original ;
by the second I refer
to the combined effect of all those factors mentioned above which
tend to increase or diminish the total number of hits scored by the
percipients of that occasion on all originals, and is measured by that
number.
162] Experimeiits on Paranormal Cognition of Draivings 109
Now it is evident that any increase in these numbers is likely to
result in a proportionate increase of hits in the ‘
cell ’
or diagonal
concerned, quite apart from its displacement ;
hence, as we are here
only interested in the last named variable, the sensible thing to do
is clearly to divide the observed number of hits in any cell by the
appropriate ‘
activity ’
and ‘
popularity ’, or the number of hits in
any diagonal or group of diagonals by the mean values of these, as
well as by the number of cells. This will give us an estimate of what
the number of hits per cell would have been if all the originals
concerned had been of equal popularity and all the occasions pro-
ductive of equal activity. For any diagonal, then, our estimate
will be
Observed number of hits
(Number of cells) x (Mean Activity) x (Mean Popularity)
and since Mean Activity and Mean Popularity are found by dividing
Total Activity and Total Popularity by the number of relevant
Occasions and Originals respectively, each of which is equal to the
number of cells, this reduces to
(Observed number of hits) x (Number of cells)
(Total Activity) x (Total Popularity)
The terms in the numerator need no expansion ;
those in the
denominator are obtained by summing the relevant marginal totals
of the Table concerned, for relevant Occasions and Originals
respectively. Thus for the -f2 diagonal of Example II, we have
8 cells and 16 hits ;
the relevant occasion totals are 5, 10, 10, 7, 10,
6, 9, 12, giving a Total Activity of 69 ;
and the relevant original
totals are 7, 15, 4, 9, 16, 9, 9, 8, showing a Total Popularity of 77.
Hence the value of our estimate. A, is (8 x 16)/(69 x 77) or -024.
The values so obtained are not probabilities ;
but they may be
regarded without much risk of being misled as measures of or indices
to them, so that we may conveniently regard as proportional
to the frequency of hits that would have occurred on an occasion r
places distant from that on which the original concerned was used
if all originals had been equally popular and all occasions equally
active.
In Figure II, I show the values of A corresponding to those of
(0-E)/,yE in Fig. I, for the eleven groups of nine diagonals each.
It wall be seen that, as we should expect, the general tendencies are
very similar to those of Fig. I ;
but we can now say definitely that,
ignoring for the moment the upward twists at the ends, the pro-
bability of scoring a hit on any original, other things being equal.
Whately Caringfoti, M.A., M.Sc.
1 10 [part
increases as the occasion of display ap])roaches, reaches a maximum i J
in the near neighbourhood of that occasion, and diminishes as it '
recedes. The actual values of A (multiplied by 10,000 for con-
venience) are
Table 7
(lrou]i
-5 7-027
-1 G-484
-3 5-290
_ 2 8-480
- 1 10-148
0 10-276
1 8-271
2 7-812
3 7-3.59
f 6-125
5 7-286
Precognitive Groups.
Hetrocognitive Groups.
It may be thought that I have devoted an undue amount of space
to the introduction of this quantity, which tells us but little more,
now we have evolved it, than we could infer by looking at Fig. I.
My reason is that, although the quantity (0-E)/.^E is perfectly
satisfactory mathematically, it is too much of an abstraction to be
a useful aid to thought ;
whereas the concepts of the differing
])roporlions of hits occurring at differing remotenesses from the
occasion of display, or of their relative frequencies, or of the pro-
babilities of their occurrence (which are virtually interchangeable)
are relatively intelligible and should enable us to form some idea of
the kind of thing that is going on.
(). Summary and Comments : I fear I cannot claim that the
foregoing has done more than scratch the surface of the enormously
important subject of Dis])lacement. We have, to be sure, esta-
blished beyond any reasonal)le doubt (if the authenticity of the data
be accepted) that displacement does occur in both the precognitive
and retrocognitive senses, and this is a far from trivial conclusion.
Not oidy is it likely to have interesting repercussions in the cosmo-
logical held and for ])sychology generally, but it affords a basis for
a plausilde explanation (other than fraud, mal-observation, etc.) of
why there has been such difficulty in securing reliable repetition of
card-guessing experiments. Displacement is easy enough to detect
by inspection when we are dealing with drawings of Buffaloes, Hands,
Guns or Windmills, which cannot well be intended for anything
else ;
but the successes of a percipient guessing Zener cards, for
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawmgs 111
example, who consistently scored high, but a place or two early or
late, might easily escape notice unless specially searched ford
On the other hand, the number of questions we are not yet able
to answer is legion. For example : Is the ‘
central dip ’, referred
to on p. 105, genuine or chance determined? (Probably genuine.)
Are the upward twists at the ends of the (0 — E)/.yE and A
curves genuine, and do they foreshadow lateral maxima? (With
considerably less assurance, I think they probably are and do ;
but this is almost entirely based on inspection.) Is the asymmetry
of these curves genuine? Does the retrocognitive side decline to
a higher ‘
fixed value ’
than the precognitive? (Probably ‘
Yes
’
to both these.) Is the peak for the whole curve, neglecting any
local disturbance due to the central dip, significantly displaced in
either direction? (Probably not.) Have the curves substantially
the same shapes for strong and weak resemblances? And for near
and distant percipients? Is bare order, or astronomical time, or
something that we might describe as ‘
relevant psychological time’
the proper basis for the horizontal scale?
Probably in all these cases, and undoubtedly in some, we could
obtain a certain amount of information by an intensive analysis of
the existing data ;
but I think it will be better to defer the investiga-
tion of these questions until more material is available, or iintil
further consideration of other points has suggested the most profit-
able lines of attack.
SECTION V
Kesults of Control Marking
1. General
:
When the results described in the preceding Section
began to emerge—particularly, of course, the Main Results of
Table 4 and those for Displacement embodied in Fig. I—it was
suggested that it might be of considerable interest, as a matter of
comparison, if a ‘
control ’
marking of the same drawings against
different originals could be arranged, and this suggestion was
approved by those most closely associated wdth the work. This
^ It is very gratifying to find that a scrutiny of some of Mr Soal’s results
from this point of view shows clearly that such an effect was very significantly
present in some of his subjects. Such confirmation of the effect, coming from
a completely independent worker, using entirely different material, a different
method, and different percipients, constitutes as strong supporting evidence
as could well be desired ;
and, of course, reciprocally.
For these results, see Mr Seal’s paper in this number of Proceedings.
112 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
was not because any of those concerned had detected, or thought , ij
lie had detected, any flaw in the procedure adopted, which is, *
indeed, logically impeccable. But it was felt that logical impecca-
bility is not the only means, or even always the best means, of I
commanding assent and allaying doubts ;
and there was also, of l
course, the theoretical possibility that the combined intelligences
of Professor Broad, Dr Thouless, I)r Irwin, Mr Gatty and myself, not
to mention others who had considered the problem, had failed to
notice some serious methodological fallacy. This did not seem very
probable ;
on the other hand many people would consider the
results obtained to be also not very probable, and I think we were
all agreed that we should feel easier in our minds—even though we
might not be able to give logical iustiticatioii for it^—if a control
marking were to be carried out and were to yield null results.
For this pur])ose we were so fortunate as to secure the co-operation
of Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, to whom I am very much indebted for his
labours in this connection.
2. Procedure : For the purpose of this control a fresh series of
fifty originals (or perhaps I should say ‘
pseudo-originals ’) was I
used. These were drawn by my friend Mrs Aletta Lewis, to whom
I am very much obliged for undertaking the work, and were primarily I
intended for use in the next experiment of the series, which lies i
outside the scope of this report. Inasmuch as some of them have I
been and others may be used for experimental purposes it would be
undesirable to mention their nature here ;
it is sufticient to say that
they were drawn in Indian ink on white paper in the same general
style as the true originals, that they did not duplicate any of these
used in Expts. I to IV B, that their subjects were selected by a
strictly random method from a list of 216 possibilities submitted by
me to the artist, and that they represented on the whole, rather
more everyday objects than did those already described. The
following are the points relevant to the present issue.
As received from the artist, each original was enclosed, in accord-
ance with my instructions, in a separate envelope and further
protected Ijy a sheet of j3aper against its nature being inadvertently
ascertained in the course of ordinary handling. The envelopes
were shuffled by Dr Dingwall and myself, and ten of them were
drawn at random for use in the further experiment mentioned above.
These w'ere later returned to the pack, so to say, and the whole 50
were re-shuffled by Dr Dingwall, who then opened them one by one,
calling out the title of each to me as he did so. It was agreed that
the first ten thus arbitrarily selected should be deemed to be the
originals of the first experiment for the purpose of the control
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 113
marking ;
similarly, the second ten were allocated to the second
experiment, the third ten to the third, and so forth. The allocations
thus determined were listed by me at the time of selection under the
heads of Expt. I, Expt. II, etc., in Dr Dingwall’s presence, and
initialled by us both. All this was to guard against the possibility
that, in the event of the control yielding a null result, as I confidently
and rightly expected that it would, someone might suggest that I
had arranged the pseudo-originals so as to secure it. As a matter
of fact, it would be extraordinarily difficult to devise a better
method of arrangement from this point of view than the shuffling
procedure actually adopted, as a moment’s reflection should show,
but there seemed no harm in adopting a full precautionary ritual.
The pseudo-originals were then re-arranged in the alphabetical
order of their titles, just as had been done with the true originals
submitted to Mr Hindson, and were sent to Mr Saltmarsh in this
order. I also sent him, by instalments, the same 2,193 drawings
which Mr Hindson had marked against the real originals ;
that is to
say all the drawings of Expts. I to IV B.
As regards instructions, these were substantially identical with
those given to Mr Hindson ;
and the reservation ‘
substantially ’
is
made only because, as reference to Appendix IV will show, it was
necessary to alter or delete a few words here and there, in the ‘
Guide
to Scoring Hits ’, which would otherwise have indicated that it
referred to originals other than those submitted. Apart from these
trifling alterations, which were made in consultation with Dr
Dingwall, the instructions issued were identically similar in the two
cases ;
but the ‘
Notes on Originals ’
were naturally not sent, nor
was it thought necessary to fabricate a corresponding document.
Needless to say, Mr Saltmarsh was not told that he was engaged
on a control or dummy experiment ;
on the contrary, by a piece of
innocently ambiguous verbiage such as is frequently necessary in
this class of work, I was at pains to convey the impression that he
was repeating rather than paralleling the work of an earlier marker.
The scoring sheets, showing half and whole points awarded to the
various originals in respect of the drawings, were sent direct to
Dr Dingwall, and the data necessary for working the ‘
All Entries
’
figures, corresponding to the most important main result obtained
from Mr Hindson’s marking, were extracted by us together. The
remainder of the work was done by myself alone ;
but the original
scoring sheets and the relevant calculations are, of course, available
for inspection if desired.
3. Results : As was expected, the results were, if not quite ‘
icily
regular ’, at any rate ‘
splendidly null ’. In Table 8 below I give
114 Whafely Caringfon, M.A., M.Sc. [part
the values of D/ct and of P for what 1 may term the four main modes
of scoring, together with the corresponding figures for Mr Hindson’s
marking against the true originals, taken from Table 4 for ease of
comparison.
Table 8
Mr Hhidson Mr Saltmarsh
(Experiments) (Control)
D/(7 P D/o- P
Full points only 2-772 <-01 - -613~-54
Half „ „
‘
2-924 <-01 -1-699 —-09
All Entries 4-166 <-000,1 -1-.318--19
Score ^ 3-,572 <-001 - -984- -33
There is evidently nothing at all significant about the control
figures. Even the modest value of -09 must be to some extent
discounted as being one of several, even though not fully indepen-
dent, results ;
conversely, the interdependence robs the fact of all
four results showiiuy the same sign of whatever slight interest it
might otherwise possess. In ordinary language, the percipients
have scored on these pseudo-originals fractionally fewer hits in the
right places, as compared to the wrong, than we should expect, but
only to a quite non -significant extent entirely compatible with the
hypothesis that no factor other than chance was involved.
In spite of this, I thought it worth while to make a job of it by
repeating the calculations of the .90 x 50 Table, at least so far as was
necessary to obtain the analogue to the eleven point Displacement
graph of Figure I. The values obtained are shown below :
Talde 9
-E)/^/E
Group Experiment Control
-.5 -1-031 -834
-4 - 1 -973 -L52
-.3 -1-678 -530
- 2 -524 -606
-1 1-186 - -.502
0 3-873 - -476
] -760 - -274
2 - -922 -1-089
3 -1-262 -1-288
4 -2-083 1-197
5 - -542 1-427
^ This merely means that in this case tlie full and half points have been
allowed their due relative weights, instead of one or other or both being
treated merely as “ entries ”, as in the first three lines of the table.
162] Exjyerijnenfs on Paraywrmal Cogyiifion of Drawings 115
These values are shown by the broken line in Figure 1, which, by
contrast with the full line, well indicates the relatively random
nature of the result. Inspection of the Table suggests a fairly
strong central depression followed by an upward jink at the positive
end ;
but the effect is not significant. Testing in the usual way, I
find an initial variance of 8-1210 ;
reduction of variance associated
with the first two parameters of the regression line, 3-8610 with
mean 1-9305 ;
residual variance 4-2600 with mean 0-5325 ;
variance
ratio 3-622 (n^ = 2, ^2 = 8) ;
P>-05 or about -1.
That is to say, the Displacement results, like the Main results,
show nothing at all that is not quite easily explicable on the hypo-
thesis of chance.
4. Comments : Some readers may be inclined to think that this
process of control marking was no more than a gratuitous waste of
Mr Saltmarsh’s time and my own ;
that it did no more than
exemplify the obvious by showing that if you carry out a random
process properly you will obtain a random result ;
and that it no
more illumines the questions at issue than making ten thousand
throws with a substantially true die would illumine the question of
whether another was loaded. Math such critics I have the liveliest
svmpathy, for these were precisely my own reactions when the
project was first mooted. But I am now inclined to think that these
reactions, though natural, were wrong, and that the procedure,
though emphatically a psychological luxury rather than a methodo-
logical necessity, has a rational justification and a positive value
greater than meet the superficial eye. Here are my reasons.
I implied just now that it would be waste of time to do a long
series of throws with a substantially true die as a check on one which
had shown significant bias. That is true, l)ut it is only true because
we know a great deal from practical experience about the behaviour
of dice ;
it would emphatically not be true if no one had ever thrown
a die before, and if all we had to go upon were an ‘
intuitive ’
con-
viction that because the thing was a cube it ‘
must’, ipso facto,
behave in a particular way ;
this would be just as rash, in principle,
as to conclude that because a steel needle is symmetrically suspended
in a mechanical sense it ‘
must ’
be indifferent to its orientation ;
which is false if it happens to be magnetised.
Now the application of statistical methods {i.e. of probability
theory) to any experimental data is no more and no less than the
transference to one type of empirical situation of systematised
knowledge gained originally from experience of other empirical
situations ;
for there are no such things, as was once erroneously
supposed, as god-given a priori probabilities. And if the situation
116 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
to which the methods are applied is not strictly analogous in its
relevant features to those on which our theory was based, the
transfer may be illegitimate, things may go wrong, and invalid
conclusions be drawn. In most cases we are on reasonably safe
ground, for common experience tells us that the behaviour of, for
example, properly made cards or dice, approximates sufficiently
closely for all practical purposes to that of the idealised versions
usually postulated by theory. But it is not the less important to
realise, as a matter of principle, that the assumptions we may then,
quite legitimately, proceed to make are ultimately based on practical
experience and reasoning therefrom by analogy, not on any kind
of divine right. Usually, of course, our ‘
intuitive ’ judgements, to
the effect that in the absence of some systematic cause one thing is
as likely to happen as another, will be reliable ;
at any rate in so far
as they are expressions of properly assimilated if previously unfor-
nndated experience. But it would clearly be imprudent to rely on
them too implicitly, or to pursue the chain of analogical reasoning
too far ;
consequently, there is nothing to be lost and a certain
assurance rightly to be gained by making fresh contact every now
and then with the real world of empirically observable facts.
In this particular case, I have no doubt at all that we were
completely within our logical rights in assuming that, in the absence
of any systematic cause, the distribution of marks by an unbiassed
judge would be in accordance with the terms of the postulates
underlying the statistical treatment, or that it would be possible to
justify this assumption with virtual rigidity. But I am also pretty
sure that no one has hitherto taken the trouble to mark two thousand
odd drawings against hfty thoroughly randomised and arbitrarily
groiq^ed pseudo-originals ;
so that the control marking has certainly
established a much closer link between empirical experience and the
assumptions of the experiment than could otherwise have been held
to exist.
It seems to me, therefore, that although the work may well be
deemed to have approximated to supererogation, it cannot possibly
be considered to have been waste of time.
SECTION VI
Anticipation of Criticism
1. General
:
It is very meet, right and our bounden duty that we
should subject experiments of this kind to the utmost rigour of all
reasonable criticism. On the other hand, life is short and the
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 117
amount of work to be done in the subject prodigious, so that it is to
nobody’s advantage to replicate controversy or to waste valuable
time in arguing about matters which ought not, ]:>roperly speaking,
to come into dispute at all. I have accordingly thought it expedient
to deal here with some of the types of criticism which private
discussion has shown to be most likely to be raised, and to attempt
some kind of logical analysis of the various ways in which an
experiment of this general character might fail to satisfy scientific
and evidential criteria. It is hoped that prophylactic treatment on
these lines may prevent subsequent discussion from drifting into
irrelevant backwaters. I need hardly say, I hope, that there is not,
in my opinion, any valid criticism of a fundamental character which
can be brought against the work—otherwise I should not be pub-
lishing it ;
but there seems to be quite a number of points which
people find it difficult to grasp and these may better be dealt with in
advance than in arrear. This is not intended to imply that the
experiments could not have been better carried out ;
on the con-
trary, there are many details which I think I could now improve
upon in the light of experience. But I do not believe there is any
weakness either of theoretical method or practical procedure which
is competent to invalidate, or even appreciably to weaken, the main
conclusions reached.
Broadly speaking, we may expect to find critics divided into two
main classes. First, there will be a few who, while admitting that
there is nothing wrong with the experimental evidence, will contend
that the existence of a cognitive relation between any person and a
drawing the nature of which he cannot determine by any sensory
process or by rational inference is impossible, or at least so ante-
cedently improbable that no evidence could be considered convinc-
ing. Second, there will be a much larger class who will suggest that
there is some flaw or weakness either in the general method adopted
or in the manner in which it was carried out.
The first class are presumably of greater interest to the pathologist
than they are ever likely to be to me ;
but for the benefit of the small
and reasonable sub-class who are genuinely and semi-rationally
troubled about antecedent probabilities two or three points are
worth briefly noting which I do not think have hitherto been made.
First, it seems quite clear that all estimates of probability are
either based on empirical experience or are worthless ;
hence there
can be no such thing as a truly a priori probability, though there
may be well-founded estimates of probability formed antecedent
to the undertaking of any particular piece of investigation. Second,
any empirical estimate of a probability must be deduced from the
118 Whalely Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
study of a suffi ciently large aggregate of comparable instances, e.g.
throws of a die or drawings from a pack, to enable a reasonably
accurate estimate to be formed of the limiting ratio of the relative
frequencies of the occurrences and non-occurrences of the event in
question ;
it follows that the ‘
antecedent improbabilitist ’
has the
unenviable negative task of showing that the many indications of
paranormal cognition which have from time to time been obtained
are not in excess of what can reasonably be attributed to chance,
fraud and the like ;
at the very best he must show (a) that so many
cases are ex]dicable in these terms that there is a strong probability
that any new and similar case is thus explicable, and {b) that this
case is similar. Third, if he declares that the occurrence of a faint
but widely diffused power of ])aranormal cognition, such as I have
found in the course of this work, is contrary to common experience,
one can only rejdy tliat it is not ;
on the contrary, every second
person one meets has a story suggestive of paranormal cognition in
some form or other, either at hrst or second hand, while the whole
literature, not merely of Psychical Research, but of History,
Anthro])ology and Biography, is crammed with instances of varying
degrees of authenticity. Fourth and finally, what would be contrary
to common experience, to the point of incredibility, wmuld be if no
concatenation of circumstances had ever resulted in the kind and
degree of alnlity 1 have found ever resulting in an incident sufficiently
striking to be put on record.
In short, criticism on these lines, even in its most reasonable form,
does not seem to me to have a leg to stand upon ;
for the whole of
the antecedent and contextual evidence appears far more consonant
with the supposition that what we now call ‘
paranormal ’
modes
of cognition constitute a fact in Nature, often enough “ twisted by
knaves to make a trap for fools ” but none the less real for that, while
attempts to explain them away may l)e due to a wide range of
motives—from a laudable desire to discourage superstition, through
a vague dread of their ill-deduced inqdications, to a petty dislike
of anything not smugly subsumable under the critic’s own conception
of how Nature ought to behave.
Turning to the second class of critics, with whom I liave every
sympathy (for have I not been of their conp^any where much other
work has been concerned?) it seems to me that not-obviously-stupid
criticism can again be flivided into two main types, of which one is
concerned with what I will call Real Possibilities of Error, while the
other arises solely from misapju’ehensions of the logical basis of the
work. The possibility of sensory ])erception would be a perfect
example of the first, while the delusion that the use of originals
162] Experinmits on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 119
depicting common objects might possibly foster a spurious positive
result would typically represent the second.
2. Real Possibilities of Error : Using the term ‘
error ’
in a some-
what wider sense than usual, these possibilities may conveniently
be dealt with under the heads of Fraud, Misreporting, Sensory
leakage. Inference, Marking and Statistical Treatment.
As regards Fraud, it is entirely proper that, in the present state
of the art and in view of the unfortunate history of much of our
subject, the possibility of deception should be seriously considered,
without any regard at all to personal feelings, wherever it seems
plausibly applicable ;
but I do not think that this is a case where it
is. It certainly would have been if I had been working with
professional music-hall telepathists, or if H.S.C. and I had set up as
a pair of modern Zancigs, or if I had relied wholly or mainly on the
performance of some one especially gifted percipient, or even on
those of a very few ;
whereas none of these circumstances obtain.
Apart from this, I very much doubt whether I could have put
through so monumental a deception without arousing the suspicions
of some at least of my various colleagues and consultants ;
and even
if I could, it would still have been necessary either to consj^ire with
a large number of my percipients, or else to fabricate drawings on
a fairly extensive scale. The last would probably have been the
best plan, and a skilled forger could presumably manage it. On the
other hand, all drawings, markings, tables and calculations are, of
course, available for inspection by any interested and responsible
person.
But considerations of this kind do not constitute the jDroper
rebuttal of any such suggestions. As I indicated at the very outset
of this paper, the development of a repeatable experiment—the
most urgent desideratum in the subject—has been one of my most
important objectives throughout. I believe I have succeeded in
doing so ;
consequently, I am in the position of being able to make
the only completely satisfactory reply (even better than pistols for
two and coffee for one before breakfast), namely, “ If you don’t
believe me, go and try for yourself.”
Great stress has often been laid on the importance of predictability
as the acid test of genuine phenomena. No sane person, of course,
would agree with the pronouncement “ Only when conditions can
be so controlled that, e.g., a teacher can announce beforehand that,
on such a day, hour, and place he will demonstrate these things
”
[viz., telepathy or clairvoyance] “ can they or will they be accepted
by any sound scientific mind ”, but the general principle is sound
enough.
120 Wkately Carington, M.A., M.8c. [part
I accordingly venture to ])redict to the following extent : Take
a group of about 30 or more university students of mixed sexes and
perform a ten day experiment as descriljed in my account of Expt. I :
be scrupuloiisly careful to exclude all sensory clues : Select the
subjects of originals from some much larger list of reasonably
common objects, avoiding ambiguity, by any substantially random
method : repeat the experiment, preferably with different perci-
pients, two or three months later, using different originals : have the
drawings scored ‘
blind ’
against the 20 shuffled originals, by groups
as described above, using a rather generous standard of scoring :
if necessary repeat the experiment a third time. I am fairly con-
fident that at least promising results will be obtained, though I
would not care to guarantee significance ;
and when I say ‘ pro-
mising ’
I mean sufficiently good to justify any reasonable person in
continuing the work. Naturally, a dozen small points come to
mind, which can be gathered from the details given in the preceding
pages ;
but there is one possibly important reservation which I
think it fair to make. Inasmuch as the process may be and probably
is of a ‘
telepathic ’
character it might very well be upset by a
hostile attitude on the part of the exj^erimenter, so I think it legiti-
mate to insist that such an experiment should be undertaken with a
reasonable amount of good will. That is to say, I doubt whether
an experimenter would be likely to obtain good results if he started
with the attitude “ This man is an adjectival charlatan, but I
suppose it’s my duty to show that there is nothing in it ”. Subject
to this reservation, T fail to see why anyone should not repeat the
experiments with success, substantially at any time and in any place
and with any percipients he pleases—unless, of course, I happen to
be an exceptionally good telepathic agent, which there is no reason
for supposing and would be a singularly harsh piece of misfortune.
The possibility of Misreporting, though one of the most important
in some branches of our subject, is hardly one that is likely to be
applicable here. There is no question of whether I did or did not
hold hands in the dark, or of the squirmings of ectoplasmic pseudo-
podia in a tlim light ;
nor even, to come a little nearer home, of
making statements of the type “ The percipient was seated so that
she could not see the cards ”, which would need very careful expan-
sion before acce]ffance. I think I am right in saying that all
evidentially important statements made are of such a nature that
they must be either lies or substantially accurate ;
but I shall be
very pleased to elucidate any ambiguity which has escaped my
notice.
The likelihood of percipients having obtained knowledge of the
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 121
drawings by sensory means ^ may, I believe, be dismissed with even
greater brevity. Not even Sam Weller’s million magnifpng power
telescopes would enable people to see through brick walls, hundreds
of intervening objects, or even curtains—let alone three thousand
miles of bulging Earth between here and North Carolina. I don’t
know whether anyone will be so rash as to try to attack on this
front ;
but I’m afraid he will meet with but little success if he does.
Similarly, I find it hard to imagine that anyone will suggest that
the percipients were able to infer by any rational process what the
nature of the originals was hkely to be, either in respect of any
particular occasion or of any experiment taken as a whole. If a
percipient had known (as none did) the precise method of selection
we were using in the first, third and fourth experiments, and what
dictionary was employed, he might have successfully inferred that
originals as a whole were somewhat more likely to be drawn from one
section of the dictionary than from another ;
but this would not have
helped him to decide which page was most likely to be used on a
given occasion or in a given experiment.
Personally, if I were coerced into leading a forlorn hope against
an impregnable position of this kind, I should concentrate on the
Marking, and should try to make out that the Instructions and
Notes provided, wittingly or unwittingly, clues and guidances
calculated to ensure an undue assignment of ‘
winning ’ points. It
is to forestall attempts of this kind that I have published the relevant
material in full in Appendix IV, and I do not think that any plausible
case can be made out on these lines. ^ In the very unlikely event of
this occurring, we can always fall back on the results of the Arbi-
trated marking, or on the 314 drawings dealt with in the fifth colu m n
of Table 5 on page 99. In principle, I should be only too pleased to
see these 314 drawings scored blind by any reasonable panel of
unbiassed [i.e. ignorant) judges ;
though in practice I should suggest
that their time would be far better spent in repeating the exj^eri-
ment.®
We are left with the question of Statistical Treatment, and here.
By ‘
sensory means ’
I refer to any physiological process involving the
stimulation of a peripheral receptor and the transmission of an impulse along
an afferent nerve fibre to the central nervous system.
^ In case anyone wishes to make such an attempt, I hasten to point out that
it must be completely specific ;
that is to say, expressions of opinion are not
enough ; it must be explicitly stated which Instruction or Note is thought
likely to generate a spurious positive result, and how.
® I have said “ these 314 drawings ”, but strictly it should be the w'hole
2,193 unless the critic concerned is prepared to accept my assurances as to
which the 314 were, and on other relevant points.
H
122 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
I think, I am on ground no less firm than elsewhere. The procedure
whereby we calculate the expected number of Winners, explained
on p. 83 above, is no more than the simplest rule-of-three arithmetic ;
the method of obtaining the variance is due to Mr W. L. Stevens and
has not been challenged ^
;
or alternatively, where the numbers are
as large as they are here, we may use a simple method familiar
nowadays to almost every scientific worker. The only point I can
imagine being raised in this connection is the very silly and trivial
one that my first method of assessment did not work, so that I was
forced to shift the basis of the enquiry from particular occasions to
experiments as wholes ;
on this ground, in a narrowly literal sense,
I might be accused of having ‘
selected my test of significance after
I had seen the data ’
. The answer to this is “ So then what ? Do you
suggest that the results are due to chance, or are you merely indulg-
ing a taste for dogmatic psittacism? ” However, we need not worry
about this unless someone is unwise enough to start it.
3. Misapprehensions : As will have been gathered from the fore-
going I feel I have nothing to fear from attacks directed on legitimate
objectives, that is to say on any feature of the work which is, in fact,
relevant to its outcome. If there was no malajides or gross mis-
reporting, if the percipients could not obtain knowledge of the
drawings by sensory means or by rational inference, if the marking
was truly unbiassed, and if the statistical treatment was correct, then
the experiments stand and the results must either be attributed to
some mode of cognition not covered by the above, or to chance : and
chance aloiie would yield such results only once, on the average, in
some tens of thousands of such investigations.
On the other hand, I am very frightened indeed of the much more
dangerous type of critic who does not (or sometimes will not) fully
grasp what has been going on, but none the less avers, with much
grave and pseudo-judgmatic head-wagging, that he is “ not alto-
gether satisfied ” about something or other—which usually he is
incajjable of stating clearly. To describe this kind of thing as
‘
irresponsible ’
is to carry courtesy to the point of fulsomeness ;
for
it is not, in other contexts, considered honest to make disparaging
allegations without being able at least to define even if not to
substantiate them.
A typical example is to be found among those whose resistance
to accepting the plain implications of the work is expressed by a
melancholy mewing to the effect that “ it may be chance ”. Of
course they may be chance ;
anything may be chance ;
the behaviour
of such persons themselves nmy be chance—in fact this is often the
* Cf. Appendix V.
162] Experhnents on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 123
most charitable interpretation of it. But some things are very
much more likely to be due to chance than others, and events of the
‘
once in ten thousand trials ’
order are not strong candidates for the
former class. This kind of thing is exasperating, but I believe that
behind it there is often a genuine bepuzzlement which deserves a few
hues of consideration. It arises, I beheve, from a failure, or refusal,
to understand the kind of thing we are trying to do and the object
of the tests of significance we apply. Let me try to explain.
Common experience tells us, before we start any experiments of
this kind, that innumerable and unspecifiable factors of varying
potency will be at work in the percipients’ minds and may cause them
to draw anjfihing whatever, including some of the objects depicted
in the originals we use. We may accordingly expect with some
confidence that we shall obtain a certain number of apparent
‘
successes ’
{i.e. resemblances between drawings and originals) which
will actually be due to these factors and not to any true cognitive
relation between percipient and original. If we do not fully realise
this we are very hable to be led by enthusiasm into over-rating what
happens and attributing to ‘ paranormal ’
cognition effects which
are really due to these other factors. The object, and strictly the
only object, of a test of significance is to tell us whether this is likely
to have happened—and about how likely. When the level of
significance is found to be high, as in these experiments, we conclude
that the effects observed are not likely—indeed, are very unlikely
—
to be due to such causes ;
though, of course, it is always open to
anyone to contend that, in his opinion, they are even less likely to
be due to any alternative cause. This last, however, is of no
importance ;
it would be of interest only if we were attempting to
‘ prove ’
the occurrence of the phenomena once and for all by means
of a single experiment or group of experiments. But this is not, or
should not be, the case. Rare and obscure phenomena are not
‘ proved ’
in this sort of way ;
they gradually become established
and accepted through familiarity and through a gradual elucidation
of the conditions of their occurrence and the way in which they
work. If experiments of the kind here described are never success-
fully repeated, if we never succeed in discovering the ‘
laws ’
con-
cerned, then the critical historian of the future will be perfectly
correct in writing them off as some kind of a lusiis naturae. But in
the meantime we are perfectly entitled to say that the likehhood
of their outcome being a chance effect is so remote that no one need
fear wasting his time in pushing the investigation further.
Of the more specific misapprehensions that I have encountered
there are two which seem to me to merit fairly detailed discussion
124 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
here. Of these, the first is concerned with the desirability of
employing a plurality of judges, the second with the question of
whether the result can be swayed in one direction or the other by
the use of common or rare originals.
The first can be made to sound extremely plausible, if it is put in
some such form as “ Surely you will not allow results of such
importance to rest on the opinion of a single judge? ” ;
but none
the less it arises solely from confusion of thought as to the issues
involved. It is true that I am relying, and am perfectly content to
rely, on the markings of a single judge, but I am not relying at all
on his opinion in any sense that would make this type of criticism
valid. Yet, in another sense, I am relying on his opinions to such
an extent that if they were usually ill-founded no significant effect
would be likely to emerge. If we can clear up this apparent
paradox, we shall not only settle the particular point at issue but a
number of others also of a somewhat similar nature. We can put
it very briefly by saying that the kind of opinion on which we do
rely, and which is of great importance, is a judgement to the effect
that “ This drawing is sufficiently like that original to be worth
giving it a mark (or half a mark) ” ;
and that the kind of opinion
on which we do not rely is a judgement to the effect that “ This
drawing is a winner (i.e. a hit in the right place) ”. But this is unduly
cryptic and calls for careful elucidation.
I think I can best clarify the issues, which are exceedingly im-
portant, by considering two apparently contradictory statements,
both of which are true. The first may be put in the form “ It makes
no difference what the judge does ”, and the second as “ A good
judge makes all the difference ”. The catch here is this, that the
first statement is true and the secoiid false if there is no real cognitive
effect, but only chance, at work ;
while the second is true and the
first false, if there is. The point will become clearer if we expand
the first to the form “ If there is no real effect, a judge who does not
know the answer ^ cannot generate a spurious one by any kind of
wishful or misguided marking ”, and the second to the form “ If
there is a real effect, a judge who is intelligent and discriminating
will bring it out better than one who is neither ”.
Even these expanded forms need further consideration, and I
think the best way to ensure it is to invite the critic to imagine
himself in the position of a judge intensely anxious to secure (or
prevent) the obtaining of a spurious positive result. How is he
I I use tlie phrase ‘
know the answer ’
as a convenient condensation of ‘
Imow
which originals belong to which experiment or, more generally, ‘
know what
allocations or markings will favour a positive result.’
162]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 125
going to set about it ? He is given one batch of drawings which he
knows to be those of the percipients of Expt. I, another of Expt. II,
and so on : he is also given 50 originals arranged in alphabetical
order—Apple, Beaver, Cat, Cormorant, Distaff, etc., down to
Xylophone, Yoke and Zeppelin, or whatever they may be. But
(and this is vital) he does not know which of these originals were
used in Expt. I, which in Expt. II, etc., nor has he any clue to guide
him. He starts work on the first batch of drawings and soon comes
across, we will suppose, a number of rather indeterminate birds.
Is he to reckon these as hits on Cormorant, or as half hits, or as not
worth a mark at all? Which policy will best serve his ends? If
Cormorant is one of the originals of Expt. I, then reckoning all these
as full hits will tend to produce a positive result ;
Imt if it happens
not to be, then the reverse. But this is exactly what he does not
know, so that he will be quite unable to decide whether generosity
or strictness will pay him best. And the same applies to every
origmal of the 50 and to every batch of drawings. Thus it is literally
impossible for any degree of fancifulness, of prejudice in either
direction, or of eccentricity on the part of the judge to generate
anything but a chance effect if there is no non-chance relationship
between the drawings and the originals.
The same apphes, though not quite so obviously, to capriciousness
or lack of consistency. I have heard it asked “ Suppose it just
happens that ^ the judge is feeling generous when he is considering
a drawing of Expt. I and looking at an original of Expt. I, and strict
when he is considering a drawing of Expt. I but looking at an
original of Expt. II? ”. The answer is “ Suppose it ‘
just happens
’
the other way round, the effect will be reversed. Have you any
reason for supposing that the one situation will arise appreciably
more often than the other (if so, state it) ;
and are not these fluctua-
tions of the standard exactly what we refer to, among other things,
when we use the word ‘
chance ’? ”. It goes without saying that
fluctuations of this kind will frequently occur and that they may
often be the deciding factor in cases of doubt ;
but unless we
postulate relevant knowledge on the part of the judge (excluded by
hypothesis), or suppose him endowed with paranormal powers
(which would be begging the question) they can have no more
systematic influence on the outcome than would decisions obtained
by tossing a halfpenny or throwing a die.
Now turn to the other side of the question, and suppose that there
is a real effect to which we are anxious to do justice. In these circum-
1 This is a common involuntary trick whereby the notion of chance is
smuggled incognito into a sentence ostensibly not containing it.
126 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part j
^
stances the intelligence and ability of the judge is likely to be of the I]
very greatest importance. The material, on this hypothesis, will be -
made up of three types of drawing ;
there will be some which have |
no resemblance or connection with the originals at all ;
there will i*i
be some which show resemblances or associations determined by
'
chance alone ;
and there will be a certain proportion of which the I
nature or form has been to some greater or less extent influenced by
the cognitive process postulated. Now, unless we can hit on some ({
infallible sign whereby we can distinguish lucky shots from genuine
cognitions, we shall never be able to eliminate the second class of
resemblances, which wdll always be present to dilute the real effect
in some degree. The ideal judge would therefore be he who would
reject all specimens of the first class, but successfully detect and
correctly mark all members of the third ;
this would bring out to
the fullest possible advantage whatever real effect the material
might contain. At the other extreme, even if the material consisted
wholly of genuine cognitions (class three) it could scarcely survive
marking at the hands of a blind imbecile, who would presumably
allot points in a completely haphazard manner having no reference
to the resemblances actually observable.
It is in this sense, and in this only, that what the judge does is of
importance ;
just as it is in the other sense, and in that only, that
what he does can make no difference. If this is not now clear, I
fear I must despair of ever making it so, and must be content to
wait for the spontaneous growth of comprehension in the minds of
those concerned.
It is worth noting in passing, however, that the evidence suggests
that Mr Hindson was a singularly ‘ good ’ judge in the sense just
discussed ;
for it will be remembered that even those of his half-
points which the arbitrators rejected as implausible resemblances
showed a just significant result when treated alone. This is very
remarkable and strongly suggests that Mr Hindson has a definite
‘
flair ’
for detecting the kind of remote resemblance which results
from a very imperfect cognition. I shall always regret that I asked
him, as recorded on p. 88, to raise his standard after scoring the
drawings of the first experiment ;
if I had not done so, we might
well have obtained much more information about what kind of
distortion takes place and what the limit of ‘ genuine ’
resemblance is.
This brings us back to the question of the plurality of judges from
a fresh angle. I greatly fear that, in spite of all that I have said
above, I shall l)e urged to have the marking repeated by an inde-
pendent judge or judges with a view to strengthening the validity
of the results obtaizied ;
and if I decline to do so (as I shall) I am
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Draivings 127
likely to be told that I am afraid of such a re-marking giving a null,
or much less significant, result. This, of course, is rubbish, for a
much less significant result by another judge would no more
invalidate that already obtained than a much more significant result
would strengthen it ;
it would only show the second judge to be
inferior (in the sense discussed above) to Mr Hindson, or vice versa.
Chance, as an explanation of the effects observed is already out of
court, except from the apriorist standpoint dealt with earlier, and
no reduplication of marking will bring it in again. Nothing is to be
gained by wasting the time of judges in doing what we know to be
unnecessary, when they might be doing something useful ;
or by
bowing oneself in the house of unreason when one’s logical position
is impregnable.
The position would be very different, and re-marking desirable to
the point of necessity, if it could be shown that the Instructions,
etc., gave biassing guidance to the judge, or if it could be plausibly
maintained, in face of his testimony and my own, that Mr Hindson
had, in fact, any notion of which originals were used in which
experiment, or even any clues by which he might have known.
Apart from this, re-marking in this case, or plurality of markings in
general, will only throw light on the relative merits of the judges,
not on the validity of results.^ Such questions as the extent to
which judges differ, and why, or of what principles of judging are
best ealculated to bring out real effects in varying types of material,
are of no small intrinsic interest, and will undoubtedly demand
investigation in due course. But they have nothing whatever to
do with whether the results of these or similar experiments are valid,
and it is wholly illegitimate to contend that they have.
A great deal of what has just been said is applicable, mutatis
mutandis, to the cognate suggestion that the outcome of the experi-
ment may be influenced by the kind of originals used. If we
substitute ‘
ignorance of percipients ’
for ‘
ignorance of the judge ’,
we shall find a close parallel between the two situations, the second
of which accordingly does not need detailed discussion here. Just
as, in one sense, it makes no difference what the judge does, so, in
the corresponding sense, it makes no difference what originals are
used ;
and just as, in the other sense, some judges are better than
1 To cover a point whicli might be raised : If we were to submit to a judge,
under the conditions described, material which we believed to embody a
significant real effect, and were to obtain a null result, we should be perfectly
entitled to re-submit to another or others in the hope that the first was incom-
petent—always provided that we made due allowance, in the usual way, for the
number of judges so employed when making our final estimate of probability.
128 Whately Carington, 31.A., 31. Sc. [part
others, so, in the corresponding sense, some originals are likely to be
better than others. And just as it is impossible to show how a judge
who does not know the answer can fabricate a spurious result by any
process of mis-marking, so it is impossible to show how an experi-
menter can fabricate a spurious result, through the use of one sort
of original rather than another, provided the percipients have no
]:) 0ssibility of telling, by sensory means or rational inference, what
originals are likely to be used on wdiich occasions. Finally, again
as in the preceding case, the best way of convincing oneself that this
is true is to try to work out a plan for generating a spurious effect,
by the use of any type of originals whatever, subject to the restric-
tions that the original to be used on any occasion is selected by a
random method, and that the percipients are given no clue as to
what it is.
4. Summing-up : I have no desire to appoint myself dictator-like,
as judge in my own cause, though it seems fair enough to insist, as
I have just been doing, that criticism should be directed towards
points which might, in principle, be vulnerable rather than against
those which could never be. It is true that my most anxious
scrutiny has failed hitherto to find any source of systematic error
in either the method or procedure adopted, and that I do not believe
that there is one. But it is not by my ojfinion, or even by that of
others however eminent, that the work must be judged as successful
or otherwise ;
it is by the test of repeatability alone that it must
ultimately stand or fall. If properly conducted attempts to repeat
my results consistently fail to do so, no amount of argument on my
part will off-set the fact ;
and if, in a fair proportion of such cases,
similar results are obtained, argument will be superfluous.
So wo may end this Section very much as we began it ; I have
tried to produce a repeatable experiment ;
I believe that I have
succeeded ;
if, for whatever reason, you distrust the conclusions
reached—Try it yourselves.
SECTION VII
Summary .and Conclusion
This paper is already depressingly lengthy, though I doubt whether
1 could have shortened it appreciably without damaging omissions
of important details. I will accordingly do no more by way of
bringing it to an end than run over the essential features of the work
in briefest summary and add a very few comments of general interest
for which no appropriate place has been found elsewhere.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 129
Five experiments ^ in the ‘ paranormal ’
cognition of distant
drawings have been conducted. In each of these, ten different
originals were used, and ten fresh originals were used in each
experiment. All originals were selected by a substantially random
method. About 250 percipients of both sexes, producing about
2,200 drawings, took part. AAry few percipients, probably not
more than ten or twelve, took part in more than one experiment.
In no experiment was there the smallest possibility, humanly
speaking, of any percipient obtaining any clue to the nature of any
original by normal sensory means or by rational inference. The
drawings were marked against the whole fifty originals by a judge
who had no clue or information as to which originals w^ere used in
which experiment. A total of 1,209 drawings were found which
were judged to be sufficiently like one or other of the originals to
deserve mention. From the data it is possible to calculate how
many of these resemblances or ‘
hits ’
would be ‘
winners ’, i.e. liits
on originals used in their own experiment, if chance alone were
operative, and how often this value would be exceeded by any given
amount. It is found that the excess is such as would be equalled
or surpassed only about once in some thirty thousand such investiga-
tions if chance alone were responsible. In other words, percipients’
drawings resemble the originals (considered as a group) at which they
are aiming more closely than they resemble originals at which they
were not aiming to an extent which cannot plausibly be attributed
to chance.
Examination of the data from another point of view shows that
these resemblances do not occur exclusively, or even most often, at
the same time as the display of the origmal concerned. But there is
a fairly regular tendency for drawings which resemble a given
original to occur relatively more frequently on occasions which are
near to that on which it was dis^olayed than on others which are
more remote. This effect is observable to a significant extent in
both directions.
The main conclusions indicated by the facts are, first that there
is a real cognitive relation of some kind (direct or indirect) between
percipients and originals, second that this may be either of pre-
cognitive or retrocognitive form.
The above simimary, if somewhat arid, appears to cover ade-
^ I say ‘
five ’
here because it will be more convenient henceforward to
think of the experiments here described as Experiments I to V, rather than
I to IV B ; otherwise we may find ourselves getting confused at some later
stage by having, say, seven experiments with eighty originals. The next
experiment will be numbered VI.
130 Whafely Cnrinqton, M.A., WI.8c. [part
qiiately the essential facts and inferences therefrom, but I may be
permitted a few comments of a slightly more speculative nature. ]
I suppose most readers will want to ask “ What kind of a process
^
do you think is involved? I do not think the time is ripe for
saying, or even suggesting, what the process is ;
but I am prepared
to record a few quite tentative impressions which suggest fairly
strongly what it is 7iot. First and foremost, I am as confident as I
could be without special experimentation that it is in no sense a
matter of the percipient copying or in any way ‘seeing’ the drawing, n
In contrast to M. Warcollier’s recently published views, I have the '
strong impression that it is the ‘
idea ’
rather than the form that is !
cognised. For example, it is as if the percipient were told ‘
Draw a i
Hand ’
rather than ‘
Copy this Hand ’, for we get left hands and
right hands, open hands and closed hands, a])parently quite indis-
criminately, which we surely would not do if it were a matter of
copying something seen. Very seldom indeed have I received the |
impression that it is the uninter])reted form itself that has ‘
got )
across ’, and even then I fancy that it has been the ‘
idea of the form
’
rather than the lines themselves that have been concerned. In fact,
on the strict understanding that this is entirely conjectural and ‘
for
purposes of entertainment only ’, I increasingly incline to the view
that the lines on the paper have nothing to do with it at all, except
perha])s as a focus for the thought or attention of the experimenter.
The astute reader will correctly deduce from this that my im-
pression at present is one of a ‘
telepathic ’
rather than a ‘
clair-
voyant ’ phenomenon. This is true as far as it goes, but only subject
to the very important reservation that I am not at all sure that the
current conceptions of either the one or the other will necessarily
fit the facts. The truth of the matter is that we do not know what
kind of a process is involved, and it would be a mistake to handicap
ourselves by trying to tie it up prematurely with any preconceived
notions.
It seems pretty clear that the percipients show a cognitive relation
to the originals which cannot be attributed to any ‘
normal ’
cause ;
and I have no doubt at all that the experimenter’s mind (H.S.C.’s
or mine) plays an im])ortant part in establishing that relation.
Indeed, certain work now in progress suggests on inspection (I will
not say more) that the mind of a third party, neither experimenter
nor percipient but still connected with the experiment in certain
respects, may significantly influence the results ;
and the bare
suspicion that such an effect may be exercised in a manner deter-
minable by experiment shoidd make us very cautious about foi mu-
lating even the most tentative explanations.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 131
I will end by drawing attention to the fact that the effect found,
though highly significant, is intrinsically very faint. On the basis
of the Hindson ‘
All Entries ’
data, which I have so extensively
used, a total of rather more than 2,000 drawings yields a crop of just
over fifty hits above chance expectation ;
so we may reasonably
speak of a 2^% effect. Presumably this is an underestimate, partly
because I artificially restricted Mr Hindson’s natural judgement,
partly because it may fairly be supposed that a perfect marker would
have done a little better. But I should be inclined to doubt whether
any marking however perfect would raise the figure much above 5%.
This, to my mind, is a very gratifying order of result. It is
admittedly small, but so is the amount of radium in pitchblende
which no one on that account denies is important and interesting.
On the other hand, if I had found an effect of some ten times the
size, I should have felt it too good to be true and have suspected the
presence of many large flies in the ointment. As it is, it seems to
me that what I have found (especially when we add the complica-
tions due to displacement) is eminently compatible with both sides
of common experience—with the knowledge that on the whole
people very seldom show signs of paranormal cognition, and with
the knowledge that none the less they occasionally do. Finally, the
fact that, so far as I can judge by inspection, the ability concerned
is pretty widely distributed, or at least not concentrated to any
startling degree among a very few specially gifted persons, suggests
that it is likely to prove an attribute common to all humanity, with
nothing alarmingly magical about it ;
so that perhaps the adjective
‘ paranormal ’
is something of a misnomer after all.
132 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
EXAMPLE I
Main Result for Hindson FiauRES
Table of Points Awardeo :
Hits by the Drawings of Experiments
On the
Originals
of
I II III IV A IV B Total
1 51-5 7-0 5-5 40-5 23-0 127-5
11 77-5 18-0 7-5 51-0 27-0 181-0
III 36-5 12-5 6-5 45-0 36-5 137-0
IV A 25-0 7-0 4-0 41-0 24-5 101-5
IV B 82-0 19-0 10-0 106-0 84-5 301-5
Total : 272-5 63-5 33-5 283-5 195-5 848-5
Let a . . «5 ,
h . 65 be the row and column Totals, taken in order,
respectively (or vice versa'). Then
f'A 34,743-75 ; r/i + 61 400-0 ; «i6i («i + ^1 )
13,897,500-000
11,493-50 ;
244-5 ; («? + ^2 )
2,810,160-750
4,589-50 ; «3 + h 170-5 ;
flgfeg («3 + ^3 )
782,509-750
28,775-25 ;
385-0
;
(«4 + ^4 )
11,078,471-250
«5^^5 58,943-25 ; «5 + ^5 497-0 ; («5 + ^5 ) 29,294,795-250
IS : 138,545-25 ;
1,697-0; 57,863,437-000
E 163-28; 0 ,„
201-50 ;
D 38'•
22 ;
N 848-50 ;
N2
719,952-25 ;
N2
(N - 1 )
610,159,531-875
Whence S2 {ab)
N2 . S (nh)
19,194,786,297-5625
99,745,964,464-3125
Sum
N . S(rth) (a + h)
118,940,750,761-8750
49,097,126,294-5000
Subtracting
Dividing by N^(N - 1) gives
Whence
D/a
P
69,843,624,467-3750
a2 114-468
a 10-699
3-572
< -001 or 1/2,944 v.n.
162]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Draivings 133
EXAMPLE II
Distribution of Hits on Originals of Expt. I made
ON Occasions of Expt. I
Occasions
Originals 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Total
1. Bracket 1 1 2 1 . 2 7
2. Buffalo 1 1 1 4 2 1 1 2 2 15
3. Embattled Fess 1 2 1 4
4. Hand 1 1 1 1 2 2 . 1 9
5. Cross-stitch 2 2 3 3 2 1 1 2 16
6. Bottle 2 2 2 3 9
7. Bat 1 2 1 • 1 3 1 9
8. Net 2 2 2 2 8
9. Beetle 1 . 1 1 3
10. Anchor 1 • • • 1
Totals : 5 7 5 10 10 7 10 6 9 12 81
Then we have
Diagonal 0 E (0-E) {0-E)l^E
-9 •062 - -062 - -249
-8 1 •272 •728 1-396
-7 •815 - -815 - -903
-6 1 1-556 - -556 - -446
-5 2-321 -2-321 -1-523
-4 4 3-763 •237 •122
-3 4 4-975 - -975 - -437
-2 9 5-371 3-629 1-905
-1 4 7-013 -3-013 - 1-137
0 8 8-025 - -025 - -088
1 10 7-630 2-370 •858
2 16 8-383 7-617 2-630
3 6 7-692 -1-692 - -610
4 6 6-432 - -432 - -170
5 3 6-124 -3-124 -1-262
6 2 3-753 -1-753 - -905
7 3 2-778 •222 •133
8 2 3-000 -1-000 - -577
9 2 1-037 •963 •946
Totals : 81 81-002 - -002
Totals for
- ve part
:
23 26-148 -3-148 - -616
+ve „ 50 46-829 3-171 •463
9)
TABLE I : Hindson ‘
All Entries ’
Data, Showing
Expectations and Differences
Hits by the Drawings of Experiment
On the
Originals I II III IVa IVb Total
of
0 81 10 9 53 33 186
I E 64-46 13-23 7-69 59-38 41-23 185-99
1
o 16-54 -3-23 1-31 -6-38 -8-23
0 125 26 11 76 44 282
II E 97-73 20-06 11-66 90-03 62-51 281-99
0-E 27-27 5-94 - -66 -14-03 -18-51
0 61 15 9 66 52 203
III E 70-35 14-44 8-40 64-81 45-00 203-00
1
o -9-35 •56 •60 1-19 7-00
0 43 11 7 58 33 152
IV A E 52-68 10-81 6-29 48-53 33-69 152-00
0 - E - 9-68 -19 •71 9-47 -•69
0 109 24 14 133 106 386
IV B E 133-78 27-46 15-96 123-24 85-56 386-00
0-E -24-78 -3-46 - 1 -96 9-76 20-44
Total 0 419 86 50 386 268 1,209
E 419-00 86-00 .50-00 385-99 267-99 1,208-98
Note : The expectation in any cell is given by the product of the
appropriate marginal totals divided by the Total number of hits
(1,209).
The Total Expectation for the leading diagonal is 227-01 ;
the
total number of hits observed is 280 ;
the difference is 52-99. Thus
the value of ;S(;“ for the leading diagonal, using Yates’ correction, is
52-52/227 + 52-57982 = 14-95, with P about -000,1.
TABLE II : Samples and Group Sub-Totals of the 99
Diagonals of the 50 x 50 Table
(Groups of Nine Diagonals)
Diagonals
-49 to -41
0 E ( 0 - E) (
O - E)
j^E
Sub-totals 43 50-312 - 7-312 -1-031
-40 11 12-900 - 1-900 - -529
-39 9 14-084 - 5-084 -1-355
-38 14 13-474 •526 •143
-37 14 14-371 - -371 - -098
-36 12 11-778 •222 •065
-35 6 8-.566 - 2-566 - -877
-34 4 9-143 - 5-143 -1-701
-33 3 8-933 - 5-933 -1-985
-32 10 9-776 •224 •072
134
TABLE II {continued)
Diagonals 0 E (0-E) (0 - E)lsJE
Sub-totals 83 103-025 - 20-025 -1-973 3-89
- 31 to - 23
Sub-totals 63 77-801 - 14-801 -1-678 2-82
- 22 to - 14
Sub-totals 121 115-370 5-630 -524 •27
- 13 to - 5
Sub-totals !220 203-100 16-900 1-186 1-41
-4 30 24-298 5-702 1-156
-3 19 23-995 - 4-995 -1-020
-2 40 22-544 17-456 3-676
-1 33 24-288 8-712 1-767
0 28 23-848 4-152 -850
1 31 21-460 9-540 2-059
2 40 20-616 19-384 4-269
3 18 20-555 - 2-555 - -563
4 15 17-721 - 2-721 - -646
Sub-totals 254 199-325 54-675 3-873 15-00
5 to 13
Sub-totals 139 130-325 8-675 -760 -58
14 to 22
Sub-totals 113 123-239 -10-239 - -922 -85
23 to 31
Sub-totals 103 116-631 -13-631 -1-262 1-59
32 8 11-278 - 3-278 - -976
33 10 10-448 - -448 - -139
34 10 10-088 - -088 - -028
35 5 9-422 - 4-422 -1-441
36 6 8-001 - 2-001 - -708
37 3 6-641 - 3-641 -1-413
38 3 5-596 - 2-596 -1-098
39 6 4-840 1-160 -527
40 2 4-173 - 2-173 -1-064
Sub-totals 53 70-487 -17-487 - 2-083 4-33
41 to 49
Sub-totals 17 19-386 - 2-386 - -542 -29
Totals 1 ,209 1,209-001 - -001 32-09
135
xio-^
_
,
(0-E)/v/E
FIGURE I
-5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4
GROUP
N.B. The dotted line indicates the corresponding results for the Control Markings, q,v.
APPENDIX I
Copy of Instructions printed on the Outer Covers of
Percipients’ Books used in Experiment I
Instructions
1. Certain Drawings (none of which will be elaborate) will be
displayed in the room of which a photograph is provided, and in the
position of the sheet of paper shown pinned to the bookcase. Only
one drawing will be shown at a time and a different drawing will be
shown on each of ten successive nights. Each drawing will be in
position from 7.0 p.m. till 9.30 a.m., starting on the evening of
Wednesday, February 1st and ending on the morning of Saturday,
February 11th.
You are asked to try to reproduce these as well as you can.
Attempts to reproduce a picture may be made at any convenient
time during the period of its exposure.
In order to be of use for the purpose of the experiment, it is
essential that an attempt should be made on each of the ten nights.
Please make an attempt of some kind, whether or not you feel that
you are succeeding.
2. Drawings should not be altered or ‘
finished ’, and it does not
matter if you cannot draw well. If you have several impressions,
however crude or vague, make several drawings, oyi the same sheet,
writing ‘
Best ’
against the one you think most likely to be success-
ful. Please make all drawings on the sheet provided, not on rough
paper first.
3. Write your full name and the time of making each attempt in
the spaces provided on each sheet. Indicate under ‘
Visual Ima-
gery ’
whether you had a clear picture ‘
in your mind’s eye ’. Write
-t- or 0 after ‘
Confidence ’
according to whether you did or did not
feel that you were getting a genuine impression of the picture.
4. Be careful to use the sheets in the order which they occupy in
the book.
5. Do NOT write the date or any serial number on the sheet, or
make any mark which would enable the order of the sheets to be
ascertained if they were removed from the book. Do not make any
Note which would give a clue to the date or ordinal position of the
sheet.
6. Please insert the card provided between the sheet you are using
and the next, so as to prevent the possibility of marks made on one
sheet showing on the other.
I 137
138 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
7. The Space for Notes and Impressions is not intended for Ij!
elaborate introspections, but for verbal recording of any ‘
ideas ’
!t
which seem relevant but are too difficult to draw. There is no need ll
to make any entry here unless you wish. i
8. It is desirable that the reproductions by the various participants (j
should be quite independent of each other ;
so please do the experi- i
merit by yourself and do not discuss your impressions until after the ^
books have been handed in.
|
9. Keturn the sheets, in their cover, to Dr Thouless when finished. i
On no account detach the sheets from the book or use them in the i
wrong order.
APPENDIX II
Results of the Method of Forced Matching
The Method of Forced Matching and its outcome have been fully j
discussed in general terms in the text ; the subjoined Table shows
j
the actual scores obtained in the first three experiments by various
judges. H.S.C. and I did the first and third experiments jointly, ;
but with H.S.C. predominating ;
she necessarily worked alone in the >
case of Expt. II, because I knew the orders of both originals and i
drawings. For this exjreriment I give also the results obtained by i
the percipients themselves, which are fractionally worse than
H.S.C.’s. As a matter of interest I add the figures for an indepen- !
dent matching of the 37 sets of Expt. I, which was very kindly
undertaken by Mr 0. L. Zangwill.
TABLE A II. 1
Showing Numbers op Successes obtained by Forced Matching
Number of Sets Scoring
Correct Total Total Mean
Matchings 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 >6 Percpts. Score Score
A. Matched by H.S.C. and W.W.C.
Expt. I 14 12 6 4. . 1 . 37 42 1-135
„ 11 5 11 2 2 .... 20 21 1-050
„ in 5 2 2 2 .... 11 12 1-091
Total 24 25 10 8 . . 1 . 68 75 1-103
B. Matched by Mr 0. L. Zangwill
Expt. I 12 16 8 1 .... 37 35 -946
C. Matched by Percipients
Expt. 11 7 9 4 20 17 •850
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 139
The Table should be read as follows : When the 37 sets of drawings
constituting Expt. I were matched, set by set, against the originals
by H.S.C. and myself, and the number of correct matchings ascer-
tained as described in the text, it was found that in If cases we had
failed to match any drawing successfully against the original used
on the corresponding occasion ;
in 12 cases we made one correct
assignment, in six cases we made two, in four cases three, and in one
case six.
Since the expected number of successes is in all cases equal to the
number of percipients, there is evidently nothing of interest here
except the solitary score of six in the first line, which is fully dealt
with in the text.
APPENDIX III
Application of the Method of Decimal Scoring
1. Scoring of Experiments I, II and 111.
This was done by Mr and Mrs Oliver Gatty in two batches. The
first consisted of the eleven sets of Expt. Ill mixed with eleven sets
(Nos. 1-10 & 12) taken from Expt. I ;
the second included the
remaining 26 sets of Expt. I and the 20 sets of Expt. II. Since I am
relying for my conclusions solely on the results of the third method
of assessment, I need not detail here the innocent subterfuges I
adopted to prevent the scorers wittingly applying processes of
rational inference to the work. I am, however, satisfied, and the
internal evidence suggested, that these were sulficient even if they
may not have been necessary.
When the points were separated and added in the way illustrated
in the text (p. 77) the results were found to be
(a) Experiments I & III :
Judged
I
to resemble
III Total
Sets of Experiment I 10-0 1-0 11-0
„ III 6-5 4-5 11-0
Total 16-5 5-5 22-0
Using the general matching formulae (pp. 83-4) this gives
Ell-0; 0 14-5; D 3-5 ;
a2 4-321 ;
a 2-079
which is not intrinsically significant, for D/cr = 1-684 with P-~-09.
140 Whately Carmgton, M.A., M.Sc. [part
(6) Experiments I & II ;
Judged to resemble
I II Total
Sets of Experiment I 10-5 15-5 26-0
II 5-0 15-0 20-0
Total 15-5 30-5 46-0
{N.B. A set is counted as half right and half wrong when the
points awarded to the two series of originals are equal.)
This leads to
E 22-02 ;
0 25-50 ;
D 3-48 ;
10-327.
For the two hatches taken together we have
E 33-02 ;
0 40-00 ;
D 6-98 ;
14-648
whence we find Dja — 1 -824 with P~-07, which is still not significant.
2. Scoring oj 80 sets from Experiment IVA and IV B :
As explained in the text, the procedure of this experiment was
specially devised to enable the somewhat onerous task of scoring
the three hundred odd sets which it was hoped to obtain to be under-
taken by myself, and special precautions were adopted, as there
described, to ensure that I could have no normal knowledge of
whether any particular set was aimed at the A or B originals. As it
turned out, however, many fewer sets were obtained than had been
expected, while of those that were sent in a considerable number
showed internal evidence which, as it happened, would have enabled
me to judge that they were ‘
A ’
sets apart from any intrinsic re-
semblances of the drawings. However, when these had been weeded
out by Prof. Broad, there remained 80 sets on which I cmdd safely
work. I again abstain from detailed discussion of the points in-
volved on the ground that, although these results are perfectly
reliable, I am not depending on them for my conclusions, and
therefore need not estaldish every point meticulously here.
These 80 sets were given me in two groups, the first consisting of
20 ‘
A ’
and 20 ‘
B ’
sets, the second of 10 ‘
A ’
and 30 ‘
B ’
;
but, by
a not unfortunate misunderstanding, I received the impression that
the composition of the second group was the same as that of the first.
J hus any bias I may have had in dealing with it was liable to mislead
rather than to help ; actually, it could hardly do either, for know-
ledge of the relative numbers of A and B sets in the grouj) could not
enable me to decide which were which.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Draivings 141
The results obtained were
Judged to resemble
A B Total
Sets of Experiment IV A 9-0 21-0 30-0
IV B 13-0 37-0 50-0
Total 22-0 58-0 80-0
Applying the same methods. we obtain
E 44-50 ;
0 46-00 ;
D 1-50; G- 15-142
which is very nearly as bad as it could be, for D/cr is only 0-386 with
P as large as -7. The result must be incorporated, but it is only of
interest as showing the difficulty of separating the A and B portions
of Experiment TV, which we shall find persisting even with the much
more successful third method of assessment.
3. Scoring o/ 16 sets from, the Individ.ual Experiments :
In each of these eight experiments which I do not propose to
describe in detail here, a ‘
selected ’ percipient was tested, together
with either H.S.C. (first six experiments) or W.W.C. (last two). All
H.S.C.’s drawings were scored by Dr E. J. Dingwall, the six sets
of the selected percipients in the first six experiments by ]\Ir B. E.
Parr (to whom I should like to take this opportunity of expressing
my gratitude), and the remainder by myself. All judges were kept
in appropriate ignorance either as to which originals were which or
as to which drawings were aimed at them, or both, as the circum-
stances required and permitted.
The scoring was done by pairs of experiments and need not be
given in detail here. Combining the returns from the three judges
E 8-0 ;
0 12-0 ;
D 4-0 ;
2-667
whence we find D/ct 2-449 with P<-02, which is significant.
Adding these quantities to those obtained in 1 and 2 above gives
D 12-48 ;
32-456 ;
D/o- 2-192 ;
P<-03.
which is just decently significant but no more. The substantially
null residts obtained from the 80 sets of Expt. IV evidently vitiate
an otherwise not mipromising method, but the final outcome is poor
compared with that yielded by the more sensitive method used
later.
142 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
APPENDIX IV
A. Copy of Instructions, etc., supplied to Mr Hindson for
THE Application of the Method of Palpable Hits
Guide to Scoring Hits
] . The general idea is to compare every drawing with each of the
(50) originals. If any drawing plainly represents the same object
or activity as that depicted in one of the originals, a ‘
hit ’
is
recorded ;
if not, not.
2. Scoring of hits should be done on the simplest common-sense
principles.
I he primary question to be asked in respect of any drawing is
Does this drawing represent the same object or activity, or the
same sort of object, etc., as one of the originals—or at least some-
thing extremely like it? ” In other words “Does the drawing
indicate that the percipient had ‘
X ’
prominently in mind at some
time while he was doing the drawing (‘ X ’
being the subject of an
original) ?
” If the answer to these is ‘
Yes score a hit ;
if ‘
No ’
don’t.
’ ’
pie second question, the answer to which may qualify the above,
is Does this drawing indicate that the percipient was thinking of
the same pnd of thing as was the agent when he produced "the
original ?
” Notes on what the agent actually had in mind when he
dre\v the originals will be found in ‘
Notes on Originals
3. Pay no attention to the skill of drawing displayed. A badly
drawn^ Horse, say, is still a horse, provided it is clearly nothing else.
4. Pay as much attention to the written remarks as to the draw-
ings , a niention of an X is just as good as a drawing of an X. One
or two ‘
scorers ’
have missed very jialpable hits here ;
please be
careful.
5. Eschew far-fetched resemblances, ‘
puzzle-picture ’
methods,
and all but the plainest and most universal associations, like the
plague. Be very chary even of these last.
6. Half hits (but no other fractions) may be given in cases of
doubt.
t
.
The greatest difficulty will probably be found in connection
with composite drawings containing several elements. Sometimes
it IS easy enough ;
for example, if a drawing shows prominently both
a Tree and a Horse, a hit should be recorded on Tree and on Horse
(Jennet). But one is often in doubt as to whether the X deiucted
was ‘
prominently ’
in the mind of the percipient at the time of
making the drawing (Cf. first question in 2 above).
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 143
It will probably be convenient to recognise four grades of ‘ pro-
minence ’
as follows : 1. The X is the sole, or virtually sole object
depicted in the picture ;
2. It is ‘
co-equal ’
with other objects ;
3. It is ‘
secondary ’
but must none the less have required attention,
or ‘
thinking of ’, for it to have been drawn ;
4. It is purely inci-
dental ’, i.e. jotted in. so to say, as a kind of ‘
trimming
Give hits for the first three categories, but not for the 4th.
8. In general, a part of an object may be taken as equivalent to
the whole. E.g. It is unlikely that anyone would draw a horse s
head without having a whole horse more or less in mind ;
by con-
trast, someone might well draw a hand without having a whole man
in mind, so a certain amount of common sense must be used m such
9. Some objects, such as Trees, Boats, Chairs, are very commonly
drawn. In certain cases a hit must obviously be recorded, e.g. Tree
but if the correspondence is doubtful caution should be exercised
and points sparingly given ;
otherwise any real effect is hable to be
masked or ‘
diluted ’
by points needlessly given to objects drawn
only because they happen to be very familiar.
10. On the other hand, some originals are very difhciilt and are
seldom if ever drawn unmistakeably, e.g. Cross-stitch, Embattled
Fess, Stop-cock. Perhaps it would be legitimate to relax the usual
standard to some extent in such cases ;
but this must be for t le
judgement of the marker. .
11. General ; Although a high standard should be maintained, so
that, as a rule, there can be no reasonable doubt as to the correctness
of the hits recorded (and only a half point given when there is doubt),
it will be understood that we cannot rationally demand exact repro-
ductions of the originals ;
drawings ‘
as good as can be expected
from a percipient who perhaps cannot draw well and may be
supposed to have imperfectly cognised the original may be taken
as acceptable. ,
In this connection it seems not unreasonable to suppose tnat
whereas some subjects {e.g. Anchor, Buffalo, Frog, Hammer Prawn,
Violin, Tree) will ‘ get across ’
in their entirety or not at all, othnrs,
which’ are built up of constituent parts—e.^r. Embattled Fess
(Shield plus Fess), Flag (plain flag plus cross). Royal Standard
(plain flag plus lion rampant). Windmill (building jilus sails), etc.,
might appear only partially ;
that is to say, one of the constituents
might appear without the other. It may be worth while bearing this
in mind in connection with awarding half points.
(Signed) W.W.C.
(Dated) 2.viii.39
144 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [PAET
B. Notes on First 50 Originals
The following notes are intended to indicate what was actually in
the inind(s) of the agent(s) when the originals were drawn, and to
draw the attention of scorers to certain doubtful points which have
arisen. The latter are mostly dealt with in the form of questions so
as to minimise the risk of unduly influencing an otherwise indepen-
dent scorer.
1. Ancestor : The idea in the agent’s mind was that of an old
man, hence the beard and the staff. Should a point or half point
be given to any ‘
man ’
drawn regardless of whether he has a beard,
is leaning on a staff,- or shows other signs of age?
2. Anchor : Straightforward ;
no comments.
3. Arrow : Straightforward ;
as an example (which has not yet
been observed) of ‘
the plainest and most universal associations ’
it
is suggested that it would be legitimate to give at least half a point
to a drawing of a Bow, even if the Arrow were not drawn.
4. Balance : Fairly straightforward ;
but what do you propose
to do about (if any) Steelyards, similar balanced mechanisms, see-
saws, tight-rope walkers?
5. Bat : Drawn and thought of as Bat, though the word found in
the dictionary was Flittermouse. What, if anything, will you give
for a Mouse or mouse-like creature—birds, beetle, butterflies?
6. Beetle : No comments.
7. Bench : What about Chairs? Sofas?
8. Bird : The dictionary word was ‘
Corn Bunting ’, but the
original was thought of as Bird, and the picture is not specifically
of a Corn Bunting. The latter is a passerine bird and the picture
agrees with this. How are you going to distinguish between this and
Dodo (q.v.) which was thought of as a ‘
duck-like ’
bird? Do you
propose to give full or half hit for Eagles, Peacocks, Ostriches, Sea
Gulls, etc., or only for birds of passerine appearance?
9. Boat ; The dictionary word was Ship and was illustrated by a
full-rigged sailing ship, but the agent thought this too difficult to
draw and drew the fore-and-aft rigged sailing boat shown. Always
thought of as Boat rather than Ship. What do you propose to do
about Full-rigged ships. Steamers, Battleships, Boats with masts but
no sails. Rowing Boats, Canoes, Racing eights?
10. Boot ; Dictionary word was Shoe, but agent drew a Boot.
M hat are you going to give to Shoes, Horseshoes, Feet?
11. Bottle: This was based on dictionary word Vacuum
Bottle, which w^as rejected as too difficult. As indicated, the agent
thought of a glass wine bottle. What will you give to Carafes,
Medicine bottles. Rubber hot water bottles. Jars, Vases, etc., etc.?
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 145
12. Bracket : An unsatisfactory original, because something
angular and structural can be found in very many drawings {e.g.
chairs, houses, bridges, etc., etc.). Cf. paragraph 9 of Guide and
keep the standard high to avoid dilution.
13. Brim : The word was Brim, understood in the sense of the
rim of a vessel, etc., not a hat-brim. While drawing, attention was
focussed on a Chalice or Goblet-shaped vessel as shown.
^
Do you propose to give full or half hits to all containers
remembering that Bottle and Ewer [g.v.) must be di.stinguished, or
to Goblet-shaped cups only? What about vases, bowls, plates,
teacups, saucepans, eggcups, teapots, etc.?
14. Buffalo : It is generally agreed that all Cows, Bulls, etc.,
should count as hits on this original. What about Deer, Rhinoceri
or animals with tusks resembling the B’s horns?
15. Bulbs : Geissler potash bulbs were illustrated in the dic-
tionary and copied. Agent unfamiliar with these. Proliably chief
idea in his mind was ‘ glass bulbs ’. A hat about Electric light
bulbs. Hourglasses, Bulbs of the horticultural variety ?
16. Butterfly : No comment except that as an example (not
yet observed) of ^
extremely like ’
it would be considered correct to
give a full hit on this for a Moth.
17. Castle : Battlements (castellations) were chief feature in
agent’s mind.
18. Cleopatra’s Needle ; No special comments. Common
sense must be used in respect of drawings or mentions of Obelisks,
Pyramids, Memorials, Monoliths, Church steeples, etc. Ask yourself
whether these are in fact visually or functionally similar to C s
Needle.
19. Cotton Aphid ; No comments.
20. Cross-stitch : Cf. Guide 10. Consider whether it is lilcely
that a percipient imperfectly cognising this original would produce
a St Andrew’s Cross, a Latin Cross, a mention of sewing or of
embroidery. In re Crosses, cf. Flag.
21. Dodo ; Thought of by the agent (wrongly as it happens) as
a duck-like bird. Known to be flightless. Must be distinguished
from Bird (Corn Bunting), q.v. Consider what, if anything, you
will give for Ducks, geese, swans, etc.. Passerine birds. Nondescript
birds. Eagles, Gulls, Peacocks, Ostriches, etc.
22. Embattled Fess : An unfortunate original. Agent thought
primarily of the Fess, not of the shield ;
but should anything be
given for shields without fesses ?
23. Ewer : In the agent’s mind the distinguishing features were
the handle and the constricted neck. Should full or half hits be
146 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part !
given for two-handled vases? For watering cans, teapots, etc., with ,
|
handles but also spouts? For teacups, etc., with handles but no ii
constriction? For saucepans, etc., with a different sort of handle? I
For vases, etc., with constriction but no handle?
Cf. Bottle and Brim.
24. Exfoliate ; The agent was thinking of Leaves, not Trees.
Should anything be given for these, or for leaves attached to i.
Flowers, Fruit, etc.?
25. Fan : No comments.
26. Fish : No special sort of fish was intended.
27. Flag; It will be necessary to distinguish this from Royal
Standard (44). The flag drawn is a black flag with a strongly
marked White Latin Cross. Consider Black Flags (without crosses),
Plain Flags, Striped Flags, Union Jacks ;
Latin Crosses without |
flags. Other sorts of cross ;
also pennants, burgees, etc.
'
28. Fleur-de-Lys : No comments.
29. Frog : No comments.
30. HaxMMEr : Presumably a Mallet would deserve a point, but !
what about axes and picks? I
31. Hand: It is agreed that a hand is a hand regardless of
whether it is right or left, open or closed ;
also that nothing should
be given to human figures merely because they may be presumed to
have hands. Consider (a) figures with hands prominently out-
stretched or displayed, (b) hands without bodies holding things,
(c) gloves.
32. Horse (Jennet) : The dictionary word was Jennet, but the
original was drawn and thought of as Horse.
33. Moustache : An unlikely original for anyone to draw quite
correctly. Should faces with prominent Moustaches be given a
whole point, half a point, or nothing?
34. Net ; The dictionary word was Net Blotch. This was
rejected and the agent decided to illustrate Net. The man, beach
and waves form a setting for the illustration ;
the little fish are
incidental.
35. Parnassus : The agent was more interested in the Temple
than in the Mountain. Consider Greek-type temples (criteria. Pillars,
Steps, Pediment) with and without Mountains, Mountains in con-
junction with other types of building. Mountains without buildings.
36. Praivn : Must be sharply distinguished from Fish. What
about Lobsters, Crayfish, Crabs, etc.?
37. Saturn : Combination of Sphere and Rings, the last being
most in agent’s mind on account of difficulty of drawing ellipses
freehand.
162] ExpeTiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 147
38. Scissors : No comments.
39. Shell : Definitely concliological ;
artillery version not
thought of. What about shells of somewhat different shapes—
Snails, Oysters?
40. Shooting : See contemporary note on original.
41. Skull : No comments.
42. Spectacles : No comments, except that as examples (not yet
observed) it would be proper to give a hit for pince-nez, but not for
two tumblers (‘ a pair of glasses ’).
43. Spinning Top : No comments.
44. Standard (Royal Standard) : the dictionary word was
Standard, the agent thought of doing Royal Standard and was
concerned to make it other than an ordinary sort of flag ;
hence the
rampant beast intended for a lion.
45. Stop-cock ; No comments.
46. Violin : No comments.
47. Throne ; The object at the top is supposed to represent a
crown. Consider whether you will give full or half points to Easy
chairs. Ordinary wooden chairs. Wooden chairs with arms. Chairs
of definitely ceremonial appearance.
48. Tree : Trees are drawn with very great frequency and m
every degree of prominence, which makes hits on this original
difficult to assess. Single trees, wRether sole ,
co-equal or
secondary (Cf. Guide, 7) must clearly be given hits ;
but it is not
always easy to decide where ‘
secondary ’ passes into incidental
trimming ’.
It is also for consideration whether Forests, Woods, Avenues,
Rows of Trees, etc., indicate that the percipient had the idea of ‘
a
tree ’
in his mind ;
also whether two, three, four ... or how many
trees should be given half or full hit.
49. Trident : The dictionary word was Spear and an illustration
of ‘
Head of Fishing Spear ’
was copied. Trident was introduced
by the agent.
Consider pitchforks with two prongs, Garden forks with more than
three prongs. Table forks, Rakes.
50. WTndmill ; No comments.
APPENDIX V
Two Notes on the Statistical Methods used
A. General Comments : by Dr J. 0. Irwdn and Mr Oliver Gatty.
The experimental precautions taken should successfully have
148 Whafely Caringtoyi, 31. A., M.Sc. [part, r
eliminated all possibility of the percipients obtaining knowledge of |»
the originals by ordinary sensory processes. Similarly, the random J®
process by which the originals were chosen should have eliminated #
( 1 )
the use of rational inference as a means of obtaining information
about them, (2) effects due to the ideas and associations of experi-
menter and percipients running in similar cycles, (3) the possible
effects of external circumstances causing the experimenter to draw ]
and the percipients to think of the same idea.
|
But these exj^erimental precautions could not prevent some t
experiments having a more popular set of originals than others, !
particularly because there were only ten originals in each experi-
ment. Again, more percipients took part in some experiments than
in others, and these might be expected to be more active than smaller ,
groups. 1 A similar effect is to be expected if the generosity of
marking varied from one experiment to another, and in fact Mr i
Hindson did mark Expt. I more generously than the others. But \
his ignorance of which drawings belonged to which experiment still '
qualifies him as a judge, even though he marked the drawings of
the first experiment before those of the others.
'
The factors ju.st discussed may be grouped together under the
heads of varying mean popularity of originals ’
and ‘
varying mean
activity of percipients ’
respectively. The statistical method used
makes allowance for the effects of both these groups of factors.
There remain specific resemblances between the drawings of the
percij)ients of a particular experiment and the originals used in a
particular experiment (not necessarily the same).
Thus, for example, a Shi]) might be chosen as an original in some
one exj)eriment, and it might happen that the j>eriod of some )
experiment (not necessarily the same) might include that during ||
which the Graf Spee was fought and scuttled ;
or it might be sup- '
posed that the American ])ercipients of one experiment (IVa,W.W.C.) ;
were more prone to draw negroes than were other percipients, and t
that a Negro was chosen as an original in some experiment (not !
necessarily the same). The effect of this kind of thing would be i)
artificially to increase the number of hits in the appropriate cell of
the 5 X 5 Table namely that corresponding to the experiment con- i
taining the original concerned and to the group of percipients I
affected. Such effects, due to chance, would tend to be eliminated
j
as the number of originals used in each experiment was increased ;
!
but we cannot say a priori how strong they would be likely to be,
Activity is not necessarily ]jroportional to the number of pereipients, since
some will have a greater tendency than others to return blank sheets, etc.
2 E.g. the Table given at the top of Example I, or Table II. W.W.C.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 149
and it is correspondingly impossible to say how large a nmnber of
originals would be necessary to eliminate them or whether ten is
sufficient for the purpose. But, if they were to occur to any appreci-
able extent, they could be detected by inspection and their
genuineness tested by appropriate tests of significance ; further, it
is important to note that, owing to the substantially random method
adopted in choosing the originals, we should expect cells alfected
in this way to be distributed at random over the 5x5 table, and
not merely along its prmcipal diagonal.
The probability of a ‘
hit ’
being scored in the cell corresponding
to row i and column j is taken to be afifN^, where a^ is the total
number of hits in row i, 6,- the total number of hits in column b,
and N the grand total number of hits. From this it follows that
the expected number of hits in this cell is One may first
examine, by means of a test applied to the whole table, whether
there are any significant departures from expectation at all, and, if
there are, particular cells may then be examined. An approximate
test is obtained by calculating the standard error of the number of
hits in any cell as jNpq, where p is the proportion of the total
number of hits expected to fall in it and q is (1 -p), and using this
standard error in conjunction with a table of the normal deviate,
to find the probability of the observed deviations or greater arising
as the result of chance alone.
The actual statistical test employed was to decide whether the
number of hits scored in the principal diagonal of the 5x5 table
was significantly in excess of that expected. For this case the exact
standard error has been calculated by Stevens, who treats the
problem by considering two packs of N cards each In the first
pack there are cards of a first type, a.^ of a second type . . . and
a„ of a last type {n types altogether). In the second pack there are
of the first type, of a second type . . . of a last type (also n
types altogether). The packs are supposed to be separately shuffled
and dealt out. If the rth card of the first pack is found to be of the
same type as the rth card of the second pack, Stevens calls this a
‘
hit ’
(he might have called it a ‘
success ’). He then determines
the mean {i.e. expectation) and variance of the number of hits. It
is important to note that, if two cards which occur in the same {e.g.
rth) place are called a pair, Stevens’ result is independent of the
order in which the pairs occirr.
The analogy between the drawing experiments and Stevens’
example may now be made clear. Any hit in the drawing experi-
* Loc. cif. Cf. p. 84.
150 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
iiieiits {i.e. a worth-while reseniblaiice betw^een any drawing and li
any original, whether of the same experiment or not) corresponds
to a pair of cards in Stevens’ example. A ‘
winner ’
in the drawing
’
experiments (i.e. a hit by a percipient on one of the originals at |
which he was aiming) corresponds to a hit in Stevens’ example. I
The originals on which the hits were made, divisible into five types
according to the experiment to which they belong, correspond to
one pack of cards ;
the experimental periods during which they were
made, also divisible into five types according to the experiment
concerned, correspond to the other pacJi of cards. Corresponding to j
the fact that one card in each pair belongs to each pack is the fact
that every hit is a hit on some original and is made during some
experimental period. For mathematical details, Stevens’ paper
should be consulted.
^
It is evident from the foregoing that any strongly significant I
excess of hits in the principal diagonal of the 5x5 table is prima i
facie evidence of the percipients possessing knowledge of some sort i
about the originals. :
If a significant excess of hits above expectation is found to I
occur in the principal diagonal, it is possible to recalculate the |
expectations in all the cells of the table on the hypothesis that a
certain proportion of the drawings made in each experiment is in
some way definitely directed on to the originals of that experiment
while the rest are made at random. If, after this has been done, a
test aj)plied to the whole table still shows significant departures
from expectation (as is the case with the actual data here con-
sidered) this might be due to efiects of ‘
specific resemblance ’
dis-
cussed m an earlier paragraph. Alternatively, it might be due to
]ire- or retro-cognitive effects of the same general nature as that
responsible for the excess of hits in the principal diagonal, but
capable of bridging the gap between one experiment and another.
The highly systematic character of the deviations from exiiecta-
tions in the diagonals of the 50 x 50 table may seem to suggest
'
that the latter rather than (or perhaps in addition to) the former is
the exjfianation in this case.
B. A Physical Analogy : by Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D.
A fiat board lies on a table. In the middle of it is a circle divided
into n sectors (not necessarily equal), numbered 1, 2, ...j, ... n.
A person is provided with a large number of equal small spheres.
01 these, some are stamped with a 1, some with a 2, some with a j,
and so on. These are thoroughly mixed up, and the person takes
them m lus hand and drops the whole handful on to the board.
162] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 151
Some roll off the circle altogether ;
the remainder come to rest at
various places within it.
Suppose that come to rest in sector 1, in sector 2, in sector
j, and so on. Let the total number which come to rest within the
circle be N. Then
a^ + a2 + a.j+ ... a„ =N ;
i.e. S{aj) — N.
Let of these be stamped with a 1, b.^ with a 2, and so on. Then
b^P b2 4" • . . bj~\~... byi — JSl j
'IX. S{bfj — N
,
Of the N balls which come to rest within the circle a proportion
a.jjN rest in sector j. Of the N balls which come to rest within the
circle a proportion bfN are stamped with a j.
Therefore, if the two properties of “ coming to rest in sector j
”
and “ being stamped with a j
” are mutually independent, the pro-
portion of these N balls which have both these properties will be
afN X bjjN
.
Hence the proportion of these N balls which come to
rest in sectors corresponding to the marks on them will be
+ af)2
jN'^ + ... ajbj/N~+ ... anb„/N^
;
i.e., S{af>jjN^).
Therefore, if the actual proportion should very greatly exceed this
theoretical proportion S{ajbjjN'^), it will be a sign that the two pro-
perties of “ coming to rest in a certain sector ” and “ being stamped
with the number corresponding to that sector ” are not independent,
but that there is a positive association between them.
Now the sector j corresponds to the originals in Experiment j.
The balls stamped with a j correspond to the drawings made by the
percipients in Experiment j. The N balls which come to rest
within the circle corresjjond to the N marks assigned by the judge to
drawings /row all the various experiments in respect of one or other
of the originals in those experiments. The a^ balls which come to
rest in sector j correspond to the marks given by the judge to draw-
ings which he considers resemble the originals of experiment j. The
bj balls which are stamped with a j correspond to those drawings
from experiment j which the judge assigns to one or other of the
originals of all the experiments.
Suppose that the two properties of “ being assigned a mark in
respect of one of the originals in a certain experiment ” and “ being
a drawing made by a percipient in that experiment ” are mutually
independent. Then the proportion of the N drawings, to which
marks are given by the judge in respect of one or other of the
originals, which have both these properties will be S{ajbj/N^).
Therefore, if the actual proportion should greatly exceed this
theoretical proportion, it will be a sign that these two properties are
not independent, but that there is a positive association between them.
FRESH LIGHT ON CARD-GUESSING—SOME NEW
EFFECTS
By S. G. Soal
Introduction
Until the autumn of 1939 I still helieved that it was practically
imjiossible—at any rate in England—to find subjects who could
demonstrate Extra-Sensory Cognition by guessing at the geometrical
figures on Zener cards. This scepticism was not perhaps without
its justification since during the past five years I had, without any
apparent success, tested 160 persons and recorded 128,350 guesses.
I drew attention to this record of persistent failure by articles in the
Press and by lectures given to the British Psychological Society in
London, to the Scottish branch in Glasgow, to the Society for
Psychical Research and to the Ghost Club. At a meeting of the
Ghost Club in March 1938 I read a paper on the snags and pitfalls
which beset the path of the inexpert investigator. I pointed out
that many of Dr Rhine s experiments had been inadequately
reported and that some of his earlier successes might be accounted
for by the guessers gaining clues from the backs of the cards. A
little later m h.P.R. Proceedings, Part 154, pp. 86-96, I defended
Rhine against the attacks of an American psychologist Professor
Kellogg whose remarks revealed an ignorance of statistical method
as amazing as it was lamentable.
In fairness I must add that though Dr Rhine’s early work was
open to criticism this no longer ajiplies to many of the investigations
which are now being reported in the Journal of Parapsychology.
Indeed, the sources of error in the card-guessing techniques have
now been thoroughly ex]dored and there is no excuse if the experi-
menters of today make the same mistakes as the pioneers of five or
ten years ago.
Last November my growing scepticism received a shock. The
remarkable results obtained by Mr Vv hately Carington in experi-
ments carried out under rigorous comlitions and with methods and
material differing from my own were brought to my notice. With
remarkable jiertinacity Mr Carington insisted that I should re-
examine my experimental data. He suggested that I should com-
pare eacli guess, not with the card for which it was originally
152
153
[PAKT 162]
Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
intended, l)ut with the immediately preceding and the immediately
following card and count up the hits. For, according to Mr Caring-
ton, the faculty of extra-sensory cognition might not always succeed
in hitting the object at which it was aimed. Just as a rifleman
may show a personal bias which causes him persistently to strike
the target at a point to the left or right of the bull’s eye, so it might
happen that the guesser at Zener cards all unwittingly was guessing
correctly—not the card the experimenter was looking at—but a
card which was one or two places earlier or later in the sequence.
Carington even suggested that this “ wobbly ” type of perception
might prove eventually to be more widespread than the exact type
of cognition which so many experimenters have searched for in vain.
And indeed, there is a vast amount of experience drawn from sittings
with psychometrists and other psychical sensitives which goes to
suggest that these sid^jects can seldom divine those thoughts which
are in the focus of attention. They will refer to some trifling event
known to the sitter, which happened last week or yesterday or a
year ago, and make no mention at all of what is occupying their
chent’s mind at the moment.
It was, however, in no very hopeful spirit that I began the task of
searching my records for this ‘‘displacement” effect. And yet
within a few weeks I had made two quite remarkable finds, which
fully confirmed Carington’s conjectures. From my records of the
guesses of 160 persons I had discovered two whose results exhibited
the kind of effect anticipated by Carington.
In Part I of this paper I shall describe the methods employed and
make a general statistical analysis of the background of the experi-
ment since it is a cardinal principle that any selected batch of results
which appears significant must be estimated in its relation to the
total amount of material which has been collected. Part I, therefore,
may read like a dreary tale of negative results, and though it is
really an essential preparation for the study of Mrs S. and Mr B. S.
in Part II, the ordinary reader may skip it if he so prefers and pass
on to the more important pages of Part II.
Acknowledgements
To mention by name the many scores of persons who have
assisted me in the present investigation by acting either as per-
cipients or witnesses would be clearly impossible even if it were
desirable. Nevertheless I offer them all my hearty thanks for their
co-operation and there are a lesser number of individuals whom I
feel I must thank personally for the part they have played. Mr
K
154 S. G. Soal [part
W'liately Carington is the ])rime instigator of all that this paper
contains of value and, besides insjriring it, he has been ever ready
to work out tiresome computations. For instance, he made an
elaborate analysis of the distribution for the Pure Clairvoyance
experiments, and if I am not able to publish it in full, this is merely
for reasons of space. To Dr R. H. Thouless I am indebted for
much acute criticism and many valuable suggestions at different
stages of the work. He also saw the experiments in progress in
March 1935 and made suggestions which 1 adopted. My thanks
are due to Professor Burt and Professor Fliigel for their interest and
for kindly putting the Psychological Laboratory at University
College at my disposal. Professor E. S. Pearson gave me valuable
help with tlie statistics of the sul^ject, and devoted much time to
the elucidation of knotty points. I must thank Mr Harry Price
for the cards and other material and for the use of the quiet room
at 13d Roland Gardens. Mr H. S. Collins assisted me as a witness
for several months. Miss Rita Elliott has made a large number
of very tedious “ counts ” extending over a year. These have all
been checked by me and it was seldom that 1 discovered a mistake.
Mrs Goldney very kindly organised the investigation of Mrs Eileen
Garrett, one of Dr Rhine’s subjects. (Cf. Proceedings, Part 154.)
Mrs Johnstone, a member of the Society, and her daughter Miss
V. Johnstone, undertook many journeys to Richmond to assist me
in the investigation of Mrs S. described in Part II.
PART I
The General Background
]. The Cards.
The Zener cards used throughout this investigation were made
under the direction of Mr Harry Price by a firm of playing-card
manufacturers, and the backs were similar to those of the firm’s
ordinary playing cards. It will not be necessary to describe the
backs of the cards in detail, since they were never exposed to the
gaze of the subjects while the latter were making their guesses.
The card to be guessed was either covered by a rectangle of white
cardboard, or completely hidden by a screen, or, in a few cases, sealed
in an opaque envelope.
On the faces of the cards the five symbols -f , 0, Star, Rectangle
and Wavy Lines were printed in thin red lines. From the outset
I have rendered it impossible for the guessers to “ learn ” the cards
162]
Fresh Light on Card-Guessing 155
from specks, etc., on their backs or to recognise them from impres-
sions showing faintly through the backs. This was done by (i) never
allowing the subjects to guess at the cards with their backs exposed,
and (ii) by never using the same pack twice, for the same guesser,
in an afternoon’s work.
If one uses a single pack or two and shuffles the pack perfunctorily
after each set of 25 guesses, there is a possibility that successive sets
of 25 card symbols may be correlated and, though the effect of this
on the expectation of successes may be only slight, I determined
to avoid this possibility by compiling by the use of Mathematical
Tables a random sequence of 1000 card symbols. This series was
then split up into 40 consecutive blocks of 25 cards. The 40 sets
of 25 were put into 40 envelopes which were numbered 1-40 and kept
in two cardboard boxes, each containing 20 envelopes. Originally
the 40 blocks were in the order of the random series, and the envelopes
stood in their numerical order in the boxes. The first time after
such a new random series had been compiled the percipients worked
through the envelopes in the order in which they stood in the boxes.
But when the thousand cards had been guessed the envelopes were
shuffled in the boxes and before each pack was used the cards were
themselves shuffled out of the subjects’ sight. The greatest care
was taken in clairvoyance experiments to prevent the subject from
catching a glimpse of the bottom card of the pack.
At the beginning of each week’s work the packs were taken out
of the envelopes and the envelopes shuffled among themselves and
the packs replaced so that the pack which was, say, in envelope 19
was now to be found in, say, number 12. This was to prevent
subjects who came week after week from learning the composition
of the packs in any of the envelopes.
A fresh random distribution of 1000 cards was compiled on an
average after every 4000 guesses, and 31 such distributions were
compiled from the tables during the five years’ investigation. To
be strictly accurate, the first random distribution by means of tables
was made in January 1935 after about 1700 guesses had been
recorded. The cards arrived at 13d Roland Gardens in November
1934 and were contained in 240 envelopes. Each envelope held
five cards, one of each symbol, and 200 of these envelopes were
emptied on to a large table, so that all the cards were face down-
wards. The cards were thoroughly mixed by Mr Price, Miss
Beenhan and myself and then picked up into packs of 25 by the
three of us, consecutive cards being chosen at random from different
parts of the pile.
One distinct advantage of a random distribution is to be found
156 S. G. Soal [part
in the fact that the binomial distribution can be applied to any
large group of cards and guesses even if this is not composed of
exact multiples of 25. This is of importance when, as in Part II,
the groups may consist of 22, 23 or 24 cards.
This random sequence was compiled as follows. I had at my
disposal exactly 1200 cards, there being 240 of each symbol. I first
associated with each of the symbols + , 0, Star, Rectangle, Wave
the respective numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. I then provided myself with
Chambers’ Seven-figure Mathematical Tables, and read from them
the last digits of the logarithms of the following numbers :
10078, 10178, 10278, . . . 99978.
The numbers chosen were thus taken at intervals of 100, so as to
ensure that the last digits in the logarithms should be independent.
If the digit happened to be one of the numbers 1 to 5 the digit was
entered on the list, or more exactly the corresjionding symbol was
written. If the digit happened to be 0 or 6, 7, 8, 9, it was not entered.
From this sequence I thus obtained a random series of about 450
cards. The process was then rej^eated with, say, the following
numbers :
10043, 10143, 10243, . . . 99943,
and so on until a list of 1000 cards had been compiled. The actual
cards were then chosen one by one according to the above list from
the 1200 cards in my possession.
In the end there were of course not exactly 200 cards of each
symbol, and up to January 1937 I made the mistake of adding or
removing a few cards in sTich a way as to disturb the distribution
as little as possible until I had exactly 200 cards of each symbol.
This, however, is of small importance since few of the subjects did
as many as 1000 guesses at a sitting, and when they arrived the
following week, the packs of cards had been reshuffled in the 40
envelopes. After January 1937 I made random distributions
without the above adjustment.
2. The Subjects.
In the summer of 1934 we circularised more than a hundred
persons living in or around London who had taken part in my long-
distance experiments of the years 1928-1929. Between 40 and 50
people responded, and ultimately some 23 ofthese came to 13d Roland
Gardens to take part in the new experiments. Several of these
persons claimed to have had psychic experiences of various kinds.
The experi'nents began on 28 November 1934, and all the subjects
162]
157
Fresh Light on Card-Chnessing
who came to be tested were started in the (P.C.A.) techniqiied
Some dropped out after doing no more than 50 or 100 guesses but a
good many completed 500 (or in some cases 450) (P.C.A.) guesses
and then went on to do another 500 (or 550) using the (P.C.B.)
technique. As the weeks went by other subjects were obtained,
some through the kindness of Professor Burt at University College,
London. The summer and autimm terms of 1935 were devoted
chiefly to undifferentiated experiments in telepathy-cum-clair-
voyance (U.T.). In November 1935 in the hope of providing a
stimulus we offered valualile money prizes for persons who were
able to score 12 or more hits in 25 guesses under controlled condi-
tions. Though we gave publicity to these offers the response was
very disappointing. Probably most people thought there was a
“ catch ” in it, or that the prizes were offered for humanly impossible
feats. Nevertheless it is worth noting that as a result of reading
an article on the experiments in which the challenge to score more
than twelve hits was displayed we secured the services of Mr B. S.,
one of our two principal subjects. Mr B. S. came to 13d Boland
Gardens in the early part of 1936, not to win the prize, but l)ecause
he felt confident he could accept the challenge.
In the autumn of 1936 I circularised about fifty spiritualist
mediums whose names were in a book of reference just published.
As a result one well-known automatic writer, one fairly well-known
trance medium and four lesser known clairvoyantes came to be
tested at Roland Gardens or elsewhere. All the results were
negative. In November 1936 in the hope of finding fresh and
younger subjects I removed the experiment to the Psychological
Laboratory at University College. Here through the interest of
Professors Burt and Pliigel, my colleagues on the University of
London Council for Psychical Investigation, I was accommodated
in a cubicle, and the work in (U.T.) was continued with young
students taking the courses in Psychology, while several of the
post-graduate students rendered material assistance by acting as
witnesses or agents. Here I was able to examine students of varied
nationalities including over a dozen Indians, two Chinese, two
Egyptians, one American, one Greek and several from the nearer
parts of Europe. In the summer vacation of 1936 I tested four
members of a Welsh family at their home in North Mnles using
the (P.C.B.) technique. One of these, a young man of 21, was a
hypnotic subject in whom I was able to induce sensory anaesthesia
to deep pricking with a needle. He was unsuccessful, however,
^ The precise meanings of the terms (P.C.A.), (P.C.B.), and (U.T.) will be
explained shortly (pp. 158-163).
158 S. G. Soal [part
when tested in the liypnotic state with 500 (P.C.B.) guesses, obtaining
only 105 correct hits. Another professional hypnotic subject was
tested with both (U.T.) and (P.C.B.) at University College. This
subject, a man of about 45, showed very marked ability to recognise
a playing card by minute specks on the back when the card was
mixed with five others. He was not allowed to touch any of the
cards, and the recognition was shown to be purely visual. In the
normal state he obtained no more than chance results in experiments
of this kind, while in the hy[motic state he succeeded in the experi-
ment ten times out of ten. When, however, he was tested with
the (P.C.B.) and (U.T.) techniques, he failed completely, obtaining
only 105 correct hits in .500 (P.C.B.) experiments and 63 correct
hits in 3-50 (U.T.) experiments.
One blind Indian subject was tested for (P.C.B.) at University
College. As I lifted off each card he was allowed to lay his finger
on its edge only. However, he scored only 94 successes in 500
guesses.
In the summer term of 1937 Mrs Garrett was investigated with
12,425 guesses. She is the only one of Dr Rhine’s subjects I have
been able to test, and the results have been already published.
During the summer and autumn of the same year twelve other
persons were tested by the “ screened matching ” (U.T.M.) tech-
nique. The si)ring and summer of 1938 were devoted mainly to
further experiments in Pure Clairvoyance using the (P.C.B.) method
only. In the autumn of the same year and winter of the next more
University College students were tested for clairvoyance by the
(P.C.S.) method, an opaque screen being placed between the guesser
and the cards.
The Techniques Employed
1 . Pure Clairvoyance.
Five distinct methods were used which I shall denote by (P C A )
(P.C.B.), (P.C.S.), (P.C.D.), and (P.C.M.).
/ v
•
•
o,
(i) {P.C.A.) and {P.C.B.).
The only essential difference between the (P.C.A.) and (P.C.B.)
methods is that with the former the checking up was done after
every five guesses with the guesser looking on, while in the latter
the checking was not done until the 25 guesses were complete and
the guesser was not allowed to watch the checking. If it is possible
for card-guessers to improve by practice it is clearly necessary as
in any other kind of skill that they should know exactly where they
159
162] Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
have made mistakes and so learn what introspective feeling is
associated with a correct guess, and the (P.C.A.) method to some
extent provided for this. No serious objection attaches to the
method provided that a mathematically random series of card
symbols is used. It would, for imstance, be a fatal procedure if Dr
Rhine’s packs were used containing exactly live of each symbol,
but with a random sequence, by noting what has already turned up
one learns nothing about what is to come since the chance of each
symbol appearing at any stage is always exactly one fifth.
It was my original intention to make each subject perform 500
tests by the (P.C.A.) method and then proceed to another 500 using
the (P.C.B.) method. Until the year 1936 this plan was as a rule
adhered to, but after that year I dispensed with the (P.C.A.) method
altogether and allowed new percipients to start at once with (P.C.B.).
In fact, I had found that the subjects did not improve as they went
on with the (P.C.A.) method.
Three persons are, as a general rule, present at the experiments.
They are the guesser or subject (S), the experimenter (E), (myself
with few exceptions), and the witness (W). They are seated as
shown in the figure, the experimenter and subject facing one
another and about three feet apart. The witness sits
at the end of the table as shown. The experimenter S
is the person who deals out the cards and generally
supervises the procedure. The witness, who must be W
an intelligent and observant person, is present to keep
a duplicate record of guesses and cards and to watch E
every detail of recording and procedure. The experi-
menter and witness are each provided with a scoring sheet foolscap
size and designed to accommodate two sets of 25 guesses. For each
set of 25 there are two columns, the one on the left headed (G)
(guesses) and the one on the right headed (A) (actual cards). The
two columns are divided into 25 rectangular cells. There are also
spaces on the record sheet for Name of Subject, Date, Number of
Pack, Time of first and last guesses for each 25, Remarks, Totals
Correct, and a statement at the bottom of each sheet which reads ;
“ This independent record has been checked with the duplicate and
found to agreeC—Signed .
The experimenter is also provided with a clean white rectangle
of cardboard, just a little larger than a Zener card, and cut from a
postcard. As has been described on p. 155, the random series of
1000 cards is ready for use in 40 envelopes each containing 25 cards,
the envelopes being in a determined order in two cardboard boxes
on the table.
160 S. G. Soal [PAET
In the (P.C.A.) technique the experimenter takes the proper |
envelope from the box and, holding it below the level of the table,
removes the pack of 25 cards which he shuffles (unless a new random !
distribution has just been made) beneath the table. He next rests |
the ]iack face downwards on the palm of his left hand and covers
it with the rectangle of white card. He now raises the palm of his
left hand until the white card just reaches the level of the table.
'With the thuml) and forefinger of his right hand he slides off the
top card on to the table, covered by the rectangle of white card.
He then immediately lowers the pack again below the level of the table.
The guesser or subject (S) now calls aloud his guess for the covered
card lying on the table. Both experimenter and witness record the
guess in the appropriate cells of their scoring sheets in the (G) column.
The experimenter then removes with his right hand the covering
card, puts it over the pack which still rests on his left palm beneath
the table, raises the pack and slides off the next card and so on.
The “ guessed ” cards are placed in a pile, or sometimes in rows, with
their faces downward, care being taken not to disturb the original I
order. In the (P.C.A.) technique, after five cards have been guessed,
they are turned over l;)y the witness and he and the experimenter
record them in the A columns of their sheets. The subject takes
note of his successes, watching the checking. When the column
of 25 cards is complete—after 5 such checkings have taken place
—
the experimenter and witness tick off the correct hits and enter the
totals, time of last guess, etc., at the foot of the column. They
then compare scoring sheets card by card and guess by guess to see
that they tally. In j^oint of fact, errors are very rarely found, but
they can usually lie rectified liy a reference to the pack whose cards
still retain their original order. Both witness and experimenter
sign the statement referred to above when the two sets of 25 are
complete, each person signing on both sheets. The next envelope
m order is then taken out of the box and the work proceeds.
In the (P.C.B.) technique the cards are not checked until the tale
of 25 guesses are complete. The subject (S) then waffls away to a
remote part of the room, or sits behind the screen if one is on the
table, and in his alisence E and W check up and fill in the blank A
columns of their sheets.
The average \m\% for guessing 25 cards was nearly I minutes with
(P.C.B. ), but in rapid work it may be reduced to 11-2 minutes.
Slow guessers took from 5-7 minutes. The sulijects as" a rule were
allowed to choose their own tempo. Usually a subject guessed
from 200-250 cards in an afternoon, but certain rapid guessers did
500 or more guesses in an afternoon. After the visit of Professor
Fresh Light 07i Card-Chiessing 161
162]
Thouless to 13d Koland Gardens on March 28, 1935, I did not,
except under special circumstances, allow any other persons than
E, W and S to be in the room during the guessing, but as a rule two
or three subjects were examined consecutively in the same after-
noon, appointments being made for them to come at specified times.
x\t the end of each afternoon’s work, the last witness placed the
duplicate scoring sheets in an envelope, sealed it in my presence
and posted it as soon as possible to Dr Joad. The other copies were
retained by me.
I consider that the keeping of independent records by both witness
and experimenter during the guessing practically eliminates errors
arising from the mishearing of calls, from slips in entry, etc. The
abbreviations used for recording are (plus sign), 0 (circle),
S (five pointed star), | |
(rectangle), and W (W avy Lines).
(ii) [P.C.S.). 26 persons took jiart in this technique between
January 1938 and January 1939. None of these except Miss E. S.
had taken part in any of the previous experiments. The subject (S)
and the witness C\¥) sat at the ends of a deal table facing each other
and at about 4 feet apart. Between them was an opaque light
wooden screen measuring about 3' broad by 2' 6" high. The screen
rested on the table, there being no gap between the screen and table.
The experimenter (E) sat on the same side of
the screen as (W), but at the side of the table
close to the screen as shown in the figure.
The pack of cards rested face downwards on
g
the table close to the screen on the same side
’
as the witness. The experimenter, having
shuffled the pack behind the screen, laid it face
downwards on the table near the centre of the
screen. He then enquired if the subject was ready, lifted off the
top card and laid it face downwards on the table without looking
at it. At the same time he called out “ First guess ’
or “ Next
”
as the case might be. The subject on the other side of the screen
called aloud his guess which was recorded by both witness and
experimenter. The subject was not allowed to move from his seat
behind the screen during the checking which was done at the end
of each 25 guesses. He was told, however, how many correct
guesses he had made at the end of each 25 and given encouragement
for a good score.
(iii) {P.C.M.). The only subjects who used this technique were
Mrs Garrett and Miss E. S. It is the “ screen and pointer ” method
fully described in my paper on Mrs Garrett in S.P.R. Proceedings,
Part 154, p. 74. I shall therefore refer the reader to this report.
162 S. G. Soal [part
(iv) (P.C.D.). This is the “ Down Through ” method often used
by Dr Rhine. I have only employed it with three subjects one of j
whom was “ Marion ” (Josef Kraus), the well-known vaudeville
telepathist. The method was as follows. In the case of “ Marion ” j
the experimenter (myself), the witness (Miss Elliott or Mrs Goldney) !
and the guesser sat at a table, Marion being provided with a scoring
sheet. I took one of the envelopes from the box and holding it
under the table shuffled the cards and replaced them in the envelope.
I then placed the envelope on the table with the flap closed and a
rubber band round the envelope to keep it closed. \\Jiile the cards
were under the table and before they were shuffled, Marion was
allowed to touch them once as he claimed that this was essential if
henvas to succeed. The envelope containing the cards was placed
in front of Marion on the table flap downwards. He now wrote
down on his scoring sheet with extreme rapidity a series of 25 card
symbols. When he had finished I ran through the list asking him
to say cpiite definitely what any carelessly drawn symbol was
intended to represent. This was essential as Marion sometimes
made his rectangles very like his circles. I was also particularly
careful to see that Marion did not get a glance at the last card in the
pack, since some records which he showed me of solo ex]:)eriments
proved that he had been scoring significantly by unwittingly getting
a glimpse of the last card as he laid the envelope on the table, no
rubber band having been used. After we were satisfied about the
entries in the guess column we took the carrls out of the envelope
and checked up with Marion watching. Under these more rigorous
conditions Marion failed to score above chance expectation, though he
still continued to produce for our inspection highly significant scores
that he had made while working alone. These amounted to tens
of thousands of guesses, and the high scores were to be partly
accounted for by the fact that Marion managed to glimpse the last
card in the pack, probably without being aware of it.
As regards the other two D.T. subjects who only did 100 guesses
each, the method in each case was as follows. The sul)ject sat in a
far corner of the room and callefl aloud a series of 25 symbols which
were recorded by both exj)erimenter and witness. I had previously
shuffled a pack of cards under the table and replaced them in an
envelope which rested on the tal)le during the calling. No extra-
chance results were obtained.
2. Undifferentialed Extra-Sensori/ Perception. [(U.T.) and (U.T.M.)]
Experiments in which the telepathic possibility was included, as
well as the possibility of clairvoyance, were commenced at 13d Roland
163
102] Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
Gardens shortly after Easter 1935. We have made no experiments
in Pure Telepathy. I thought it best to try each subject with
several different agents in turn, since success might conceivably
depend upon some quality inherent in the subconscious mind of the
transmitter no less than upon powers possessed by the percipient
himself. The experiments were continued at University College
between November 1936 and September 1937 . In all the telepathy
experiments the subject was separated from the agent and experi-
menter by a screen.
As in my paper on Mrs Garrett, I shall refer to the two techniques
employed as (U.T.) and (U.T.M.). At 13d Roland Gardens the
agent and subject who worked together were practically strangers
to each other, and generally met at the laboratory for the first time.
But in one case a mother and daughter played the parts of subject
and agent, in another a father and daughter, in a third two lirothers
and in two other cases pairs of close friends. At University College
the agent and subject were often friends or at least acquainted.
If any code was used to convey the card symbols to the subject
on the other side of the screen, such a code would have to be (i) a
“ timing ” code or (ii) an auditory code consisting of such sounds as
coughs, scraping or tapping of feet, sounds of hand-movements on
table or of pencil, blowing and so on. The possibility of (i) is ruled
out by the fact that I dealt out the cards in my own time and gave
the signal “ Next ” at my own pleasure. The agent, who was not
allowed to speak during the guessing, sat close to me and a vertical
board fixed lieneath the talile prevented the giiesser from seeing his
feet or legs or making contact with them. As a result of special
tests we found that if this precaution is omitted, it is easily possible
for the agent to use a code consisting of such movements as opening
and closing the heels, crossing the toe of one boot over the other, all
of which motions are so slight that they cannot be detected unless
the experimenter is looking under the table.
As regards possibihty (ii) (of auditory codes), whenever I heard the
agent make any unusual noise I made a secret mark opposite tlie
guess on my scoring sheet and waited to see if the noise were repeated
when the same card-symbol was turned up again. I never, however,
succeeded in detecting any auditory code.
I have taken no special precautions to obviate the possibility of the
so-called “ involuntary whispering ” by the agent or normal leakage
through involuntary changes in breathing. Had I discovered
any subjects who scored positive results over any considerable
period I should have tried the effect of distance on the results. But
I think the very fact that 82 subjects who tried the telepathy experi-
164 S. G. Soal [part
ments obtained no apparent success of any kind strongly indicates
that if “ involuntary whispering ” ever helps persons to score
beyond chance this effect must be an excessively rare one.
A certain subject, Mr H.—a Chinese student at University College,
who had been credited by an investigator (who was testing the ability
of students to interpret correctly subliminal auditory impressions)
with the power of discriminating faintly whispered words that were
below his normal threshold of recognition—s'ubmitted to 800
(U.T.M.) experiments but obtained only 171 correct hits as against the
160 expected by chance. After completing this series he did another
200 tests one day when he was fresh with Miss Elliott acting as
agent. I asked Miss Elliott to whisper very faintly the name of
each card wliile she looked at it. Mr H. who was sitting 4' away
from the agent—the normal distance—scored only 36 correct hits. I
I then let him do another 200 guesses with Miss Elliott now whisper-
ing repeatedly the name of each card far more loudly than before.
He scored 47 successes, a result which is again without significance.
The other conditions were exactly the same as in the (U.T.) experi-
ments.
It will be obvious that the (U.T.) results scored by the two subjects
Mrs &. and Mr B. S. in Bart II could not reasonably be attributed
to involuntary whispering ” or even to the use of a code between
subject and agent.
(i) The {U.T.) technique.
The room at 13d Roland Gardens was first systematically exa-
mined for the possibility of reflecting surfaces that might enable the
guesser to see the exposed card even while sitting behind the screen.
As a result of a great many experiments carried out by Mr H. S.
Collins and myself it was found that the only source of reflection that
might give any assistance to a guesser was the sliding glass lid of a
bookcase. At the commencement of each afternoon’s work this
was adjusted by sliding it up. In the cubicle at University College,
I satisfied myself that wdien the screen was in use, there were no
reflecting surfaces that would give the suljject any assistance.
At Roland Gardens the subject and agent (who also acts as
witness) w'ere seated at each end of a table about 5’ apart and, resting
on the centre of the table, w'as a plywmod screen, measuring 3’ by 3’
and suspended by cords from the ceiling. There was no crevice
between the bottom of the screen and the table. The experimenter
(myself) sat on the same side of the screen as the agent but at the
side of the table and close to the screen. The experimenter and the
subject (unless the latter was in trance) w'ere each provided with a
162]
165
Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
scoring sheet identical with that used in the (P.C.) experiments.
Beneath the table a vertical board was fixed which prevented the
subject from seeing the agent’s feet or legs. Thus every part of the
agent’s body was screened from the guesser’s view.
The experimenter was also provided with five rubber stamps of
similar make and weight together with a red or green ink-pad.
The impressions produced by the stamps on the scoring sheet
measured about by
To have used a pen or pencil for recording the actual card syinbols
would have been fatal, since a number of tests showed that if the
experimenter recorded his card before the subject had made his
guess, the latter was able to recognise the -h by the lifting of the
pencil, the rectangle | ]
by the time taken to draw it, and so on,
and most of the symbols could be identified by the sound of the pencil
strokes. It might of course be suggested that as the rubber parts
of the five stamps were slightly different in size or shape, this might
lead to auditory discrimination of the symbols. But this rather
far-fetched hypothesis is refuted by the fact that 84 people did the
experiment and all failed at such delicate discrimination both
individually and in the mass.
At University College the same screen was used, being fixed in a
vertical position by wooden guides attached to the wall, but the
distance between guesser (S) and agent (W) was only about four feet.
The same or precisely similar rubber stamps were used of which I
had three sets.
The pack rested on the table near the centre of the screen face
downwards. The experimenter closed his eyes, lifted off the top
card and held it close to the screen its face towards the agent. With
closed eyes the experimenter called out “ First guess ’
or Next
as the case might be. This was the signal to the subject that the
agent had begun to look at the card. The experimenter then
quickly opened his eyes and recorded the card-symbol in the
A column of his scoring sheet by means of the appropriate rubber
stamp. Meanwhile the subject behind the screen recorded his guess
in pencil in the G column without calling it aloud. As a signal that
he had made his guess the subject tapped twice on the table with
his pencil. By this method the experimenter, who did not know
what card he had lifted from the pack until he had opened his eyes,
could give nothing away by the inflections of his voice. No words
were spoken during the guessing except the words of the signal.
The guessed cards were placed face downwards on the table in a
pile, care being taken not to disturb the order. W hen the
column of 25 guesses was complete the subject without leaving his
166 S. G. Soal [PABT I
se.at behind the screen handed his scoring sheet, with the G column ;
filled in to the experimenter. The latter with the agent watching 1
closely copied the subject’s G column on to his own scoring sheet and
filled in the sul)ject’s enij^ty A column from the record of his own i
scoring sheet. The agents were all specially instructed to watch
every step of the checking and a comparison was made of the two
sheets guess by guess. The agent and experimenter each signed
both records, the successful guesses having ticks placed opposite
them and tlie totals for each 25 being entered at the bottom of the
column. The subject remained behind the screen during the
checking. He was informed of his score after each 25 guesses and
praised when he made seven or more correct hits.
Before starting work with a fresh subject or agent, we usually
held a preliminary consultation as to tlie nature of the imagery to
j
be em])loyed by the agent. For instance, if the agent claimed to be
j
a good visualiser, it woidd be agreed that he should glance at the |
exposed card, shut his eyes and imagine the symbol drawn in red j
paint on a white canvas or with chalk on a blackboard. In other
cases it was decided that the agent should represent to himself the
“ ^Vave ” by an image of waves breaking on a beach, the cross by
a cluster of wooden crosses in a war cemetery, etc. In a few cases
the agent employed either visual or auditory verbal imagery. But
in every case it was firmly impressed on the agent that during the
guessing he must keep his lips firndg closed.
A hen one kind of imagery failed we sometimes changed it for
another. In certain cases it was agreed that the agent should
glance once at the card ,
shut his eyes and dismiss it from his mind
l)y thinking of something quite different.
In the case of eight of the subjects they were asked to grade each
guess according to their introspective feeling of certainty or un-
certainty, the four grades being A, B, C anti D. After each guess
the subject wrote opposite the guess one of these letters. They
were understood to signify
A = Very certain the guess is right.
B = Only moderately certain.
C = Not very certain.
D = Feel it is a mere shot in the dark.
But an analysis of the scores of these eight subjects shows that
neither individually nor in the mass are the guesses marked A and B
any more successful than those marked 0 and D. Many subjects
believed that introspection interfered with the spontaneity of their
167
162] Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
^uessing and for this reason I did not care to burden the majority
with this extra task.
Three subjects whose scores in (U.T.) had been hitherto un-
successful were each dosed with caffeine citrate to see if any improve-
ment would result. Each subject on three different days was made
to swallow doses varying from 6-10 grains of the drug about twenty
minutes before commencing work. No effect was noted in any
case.
(ii) {U.T.M.). {Screened-Matching Technique.)
Thirteen subjects including Mrs Garrett were tested by this
method in the summer and autumn of 1937. The technique is not
a very rigorous one, but even so, no significant degree of success
was scored by its use.
The subject sat behind a black metal screen measuring two feet
broad by one foot 6 inches high which stood on the table. Between
the bottom edge of the screen and the table was a gap | inch high
through which the subject could push a hght metal pointer. The
screen stood over the centre line of a row of five “ target ” cards
bearing in order the symbols, -f-, 0, btar. Rectangle, M ave and
fixed faces upwards to tbe table by means of drawing pins. Between
each pair of cards was a gap of about J inch.
The agent and subject faced each other on opposite sides of the
screen, while the experimenter sat at the side of the table close to
the screen and on the same side as the agent. The experimenter
held the pack of 25 cards close to the centre of the screen with the
backs of the cards towards the agent’s face. Having enquired if
the subject was ready to begin the experimenter closed his eyes and
hfted off the top card of the pack for the agent to visualise. ^With
closed eyes the experimenter called out “ First Guess ” or “ Next
”
as the case might be. Immediately the card was exposed the agent
looked at it and then formed a visual image in his mind or sometimes
a verbal image of the name of the card. The agent remained
silent throughout. When the subject’s pointer had come quite
definitely to rest on one of the five target ” cards the experimenter
who had opened his eyes immediately after giving the signal placed
the exposed card face downwards opposite the target card
chosen by the subject. At the end of 25 guesses the 25 cards thus
found themselves arranged in five piles, all the cards being face
downwards.
To prevent confusion by mixing, the five piles were planted at
considerably wider intervals than were the target cards but in
the same order as the latter. A count was then made of the successes
168 S. G. Soal [part
under each symbol, and these were recorded on tlie scoring sheet by
the experimenter thus ;
(+ 1
0 0
S 2
R 1
[W 1
The count was caretully checked by the agent. In these experiments
the distance between subject and agent was about 4 feet.
The chief danger of this method lies in the possibility that the
agent or experimenter watching the motion of the pointer along the
row of cards may make some involuntary audible movement that
will cause the guesser to stop the pointer opposite the correct card
which of course is known to both agent and experimenter. The
oljjection does not apply to the similar (P.C.M.) technique in which
neither agent nor experimenter know the symbol on the exposed
card.
An even more serious disadvantage is that this method does not
readily permit of the experimenter obtaining an exact record of
each card opposite its corresponding guess. It is therefore quite
unsuited for the study of such “ displacement ” effects as those
described in Part II, and it is a matter of some regret that I allowed
Mrs S., one of the principal percipients, to waste as many as 925
trials on this technique.
Formulae and Methods
For the (P.C.A.) and (P.C.B.) experiments I have calculated the
expectation of correct hits in three ways and the variance by two
different methods.
Method {i). In a series of n guesses the expectation of hits is hi
4n
and the variance is —. These are the binomial formulae and are
valid for such a distribution as I have employed, unless it happens
to be a very improbable one.
Method {ii). The expectation and variance can be worked out
for each 25 guesses by formulae due to Mr W. L. Stevens and the
results summed for all groups of 25 to find the total expectation and
total variance.
If rtj, (t^, U3 ,
r/
4 ,
O 5 are the actual numbers of cards of each symbol
in a pack of 25, and g^, g^, g^, g^ the numbers of times respectively
169
162] Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
that these symbols are guessed by the subject, then the expectation
5
of hits for the 25 guesses is ( Zargr)''25.
r = l
To find the variance we calculate the sums
5
Ei= L Ur
r = l
5
£2
= L Uj.g^{a^-\- gj'),
r = l
and the variance can be shown to be
—i— [625Ei-25E2+Ef^].
24 X 625
This method, though exceedingly laborious when it had to be
apphed as in our case to 2003 sets of 25 and the results suriimed,
is somewhat safer than Method (i) since it allows for the possibility
of improbable distributions existing within the individual sets of 25.
Method [Hi). The expectation of hits may be calculated by the
formula
1 h A,G„
A r = l
where N is the total number of guesses, A^, Aj, . . . A5 ,
the total
numbers of times each of the five card symbols occur, and G^, G2 . • .
G5 ,
the total numbers of times these same symbols were guessed by
the percipients.
Analysis of Data
(i) Pure Clairvoyance.
In all, 108 persons took part in the Pure Clairvoyance tests, and
of these a few worked with more than one technique. I have paid
special attention to the .50,075 guesses recorded by the (P.C.A.) and
(P.C.B.) techniques because of a certain mass tendency which this
batch shows to register scores shghtly below chance expectation,
and this is one of the effects Dr Rhine claims to have noted in his
work in cases where physical or psychological conditions were un-
favourable. It seemed therefore worth while to compare the
estimates obtained from several statistical methods. On the
whole 70,900 guesses recorded under all the techniques there is no
significant tendency to score above or below chance. The results
are given in Table 1.
170 S. G. Soal [part
TABLE 1
Pure Clairvoyance. All Techniques
By Method (i)
Guesses Hits E DEV. S.D. A'
70,900 14,020 14,180 -IGO 106-52 -1-50
In the aliove and following tables
E = expected niiniber of correct hits, DEV. = deviation of hits
from expected number. S.D.=: Standard deviation, x or X=
l)p]V./S.D. Method (i) was used in Table 1.
TABLE 2
(P.C.A.) AND (P.C.B.)
By Method (i)
Technique Guesses Hits E DEV. S.D. A'
No. of
Subjects
P.C.A. 18,075 3,533 3,615 - 82 53-78 -1-52 40
P.C.B. 32,000 6,281 6,400 -119 71 -.56 -1-66 62
Totals 50,075 9,814 10,015 - 201 89-51 2-24 81
We note a just significant “negative” tendency on the total
(P.C.A.) and (P.C.B.) results.
If we calculate the expectation and variance for each set of 25
by Stevens’ formulae and sum up for the 2003 sets of 25 we have
Table 3.
TABLE 3
By Method (ii)
Technique E S.D. A
P.C.A. 3,641-48 .52-87 - 2-05
P.C.B. 6,388-04 70-73 -1-51
Totals 10,029-52 88-31 -2-44
171
162] Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
The variances obtained by Stevens’ method ^ are almost without
exception very slightly less than those given by the Bmomia
formula, and this confirms the fact that m my case the Bmomia
formula for S.D. is a safe formula to use. We see that by this
method the negative effect is slightly enhanced, the odds against
chance being now of the order 50 to 1 for the whole 50,0/5 guesses.
It is interesting to note that the total expectation given by
Method (iii) agrees very closely with the value got by taking one
fifth of the number of guesses. _ . m i i
The values of Ai, Aj . . . A5 and Gi, G2, G5, are given m Table 4.
TABLE 4
Numbers of Times Occurring
Symbols + (1) 0 (2) S(3) 1=1 (4) W (6) Totals
A, ... As
. . . G5
9,905
9,820
10,051
10,526
10,094
9,811
10,092
9,440
9,933
10,478
50,075
.50,075
Whence the expectation by Method (iii) is 10013-8 as compared
with N/5 = 10,015. i 1
It will also be observed that Rectangles are definitely unpopular.
The negative effect may also be checked by counting how many of
the 81 persons obtained total scores above expectation and the
number with scores below expectation.
We have (Stevens’ Scoring)
+ Deviation —Deviation j^O Deviation
30 persons 50 persons 1 person
This gives ^/ = 2-24, which agrees fairly well with Method (i).
Again, if we agree to call each day s work of each individual
guesser an “ occasion ” we have in all 299 occasions for (P.C.A.)
and (P.C.B.) work.
We find (Method (i))
+ Deviation -Deviation ±0 Deviation
111 occasions 151 occasions 37 occasions
Hence neglecting the 37 occasions with deviation ±0 we have
y = 2-47 which gives odds of the order 50 to 1.
It is seen that the different methods agree in demonstrating a
slio-ht tendency to score below expectation on the (P.C.A.) and
C
iThe average Variance by Stevens’ method for 500 guesses is 77-865 com-
pared with 80 obtained by the Binomial formula.
172 S. G. Soal [part
(P.C.B.) work, and it is worth wliile to give the Binomial Analysis
by sets of 25 in Table 5. In this table the expected numbers [E]
of sets of 25 with (0, 1), 2, 3, . . .
10, (11 or more) correct hits have
computed from the successive terms of the expansion of 2003
[s + i]"®, and these expectations may be compared with the corre-
sponding actual numbers in column [A], The highest score recorded
for any set of 25 guesses in the whole investigation (comprising 5,134
sets of 25) was a solitary 13 in a (P.C.A.) experiment.
TABLE 5
(P.C.A.) AND (P.C.B.)
For 2003 sets of 25
1
E 1
II
X^jE
0,1 73 54-86217 18-13783 5-996498
2 138 141-89252 - 3-89252 0-106783
3 286 271-96734 14-03266 0-724041
4 373 373-96010 - 0-96010 0-002465
5 387 392-66812 - 5-66812 0-081819
6 337 327-23011 9-76989 0-291693
7 220 222-03255 - 2-03255 0-018606
8 107 124-90708 -17-90708 2-567216
9 53 58-98835 - 5-98835 0-607923
10 23 23-59534 - 0-59534 0-015021
11, 12, etc. 6 11-10006 - 5-10006 2-343286
Tot(ds 2,003 2,003-2 y2 = 12-7553
With n = 10 this gives 0-3>P>0-2.
It IS seen that though the value of ig j^ot abnormal there is a
certain excess of sets of 25 having the scores 0 and 1 which appears
largely to account for the tendency to score below expectation.
A similar binomial analysis was made for sets of 5 guesses by
means of the expansion of [i + f]^, but the results throw no fresh
light on the question.
The Major and Minor Sets {{P.C.A.) and {P.C.B.)).
A set of not less than 450 guesses done by the same subiect in
either (P.C.A.) or (P.C.B.) I have called a Major set, and a set of
less than 450 guesses a minor set.
In the (P.C.A.) work there are 30 major sets, and of these three
were sets of 550 guesses each, the remainder being sets of 500. In
173
162] Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
addition there are in (P.C.A.) 17 minor sets ranging from 50 to 400
guesses each. In the (P.C.B.) work there are 52 major sets, all these
being sets of 500 guesses except for 4 sets of 450 and one of 600.
There are also 29 minor sets ranging from 50 to 400 guesses.
For the whole 128 sets (P.C.A.) and (P.C.B.) we have S(f)
= 144-385 which with w = 128 gives P=^^0-33 which is not abnormal.
For the 81 (P.C.B.) sets S(;^2)^io6-928 which with 7^ = 81 gives
p—-055, which again is not significant.
...
Mr Carington also made an analysis of the distribution of the
128 values of f according to Dr Fisher’s method of 25% groups
but the results were not abnormal. (All individuals were scored
by Stevens’ method.)
Exceptional Individual Scores.
The highest “ positive ” score was made by a young man at
U C London, who, in a set of 500 (P.C.B.) guesses, obtained 128
correct hits—equivalent to +3-13 times S.D. by Stevens’ method
But when the same subject was tested with another (P.C.B.) set of
500 he scored only 102 successes, and I could not get into touch
with him for further work.
The next highest score was a (P.C.B.) set of 500 with 125 correct
hits, but in this case I was unable to arrange another test.
The lowest score was a (P.C.A.) set of 500 with only 77 correct
hits, this being equivalent to -2-67 x S.D. ;
but when the subject
did another 500 guesses under similar conditions she obtained the
normal score of 103 correct hits.
The Displacement Test.
In order to test further the random nature of the card distribution
the 50,075 actual card symbols and the 50,075 guesses were written
in two concentric endless rings and then the guesses were all shifted
two places forward so that each guess was now opposite a card
2 places ahead of the card for which it was originally intended.
Thus the experiment became a (-2) experiment. The “hits”
were counted, and it was now found that the negative deviation had
disappeared there being on the 50,075 guesses a small positive
deviation of only + 16 compared with an S.D. of 89-51 by Method (i).
Similarly we find that the 128 Major and Minor sets mentioned above
yield after the ( - 2) displacement exactly 59 sets with a positive
deviation, 59 with negative deviations and 10 with zero deviation,
a result in accordance with chance. This is an argument in favour
of the genuine nature of the negative effect.
174 S. G. Soal [part
Other Techniques in Pure Clairvoyance.
In Table 6 I give briefly the particulars for the other clairvoyance
experiments.
TABLE 6
By 1/5 N
IMethod (i)
Tech-
nique
Guesses Hits E DEV. S.D. X
No. of
Subjects
P.C.S. 8,775 1,757 1,755 + 2 <1 26
P.C.M. 7,400 1,495 1,480 + 15 <1 2
D.T. 4,6.50 954 9.30 + 24 <1 3
Totals 20,825 4,206 4,165 + 41 57-5 <1
The results on the techniques other than P.C.A. and P.C.B. are
thus seen to be purely chance results, but with the exception of
Miss E. S., a Greek lady, none of the above percipients had taken
part in the P.C.A. or P.C.B. work.
(ii) Undifferentiated E.S.P.
84 })ersons took part in the undifferentiated experiments of whom
76 were tested by the (U.T.) technique and 13 by the (U.T.M.)
technique, a few persons trying both methods.
The general results arc contained in Table 7. They were all
scored l)y Method (i).
TABLE 7
Undifferentiated E.S.P.
Method (i)
Technique Gtie.sses Hits E DEV. S.D. X
(U.T.) -
44,100 8,838 8,820 + 18 84 <1
(U.T.M.) -
13,350 2,703 2,670 + 33 46 <1
Totals 57,4.50 11,541 11,490 + 51 96 <1
It is seen that all the deviations are slight positive deviations even
less than the standard deviation. These results are a strong argu-
ment against the “ involuntary whispering ” theory or the theory
175
162] Fresh Light on Cmrl-Ouessing
that subjects are able to discriminate the sounds made_ by small
pieces of rubber measuring i" by In fact, such theories appear
to be the wildest nonsense when put to the test.
Individual Scores {U.T.).
There are 28 “ Major ” sets of 1000 guesses each and 57 “ Minor
”
sets with numbers of guesses varying from 25 (once) to 800 (once).
For the 28 sets of 1000, S(;;;2) = 28-602 which gives P^O-4.
The only positive score of the slightest interest is the first thousand
of Mrs S. whose work is described in Part II. The lowest score was
obtained by Mr F., a student who had su-Sered from nervous break-
down. Mr F. got only 168 correct hits on his first 1000 guesses—
equivalent to -2-53 times S.D.—and two of his 40 scores for
25 fTuesses were zeros. However, on a second thousand his score
rose to 193, a result which though still negative, has no significance.
I have also made a Binomial Analysis by sets of 25, but the results
agree closely with expectation and the work is not worth setting out
in detail.
(iii) Singletons and Success Groups.
In both (P.C.A.) and (P.C.B.) and for (U.T.) we have counted the
numbers of singletons (i.e. isolated successes), doubles {i.e. runs
of 2 successes), “ triples ”, etc., in order to see if there was any
evidence for short bursts of intermittent extra-sensory cognition.
The expected numbers of “ singletons ”, “ doubles ,
etc., have been
computed from a jniori expectation and the singletons have also
been computed on the basis of the actual number of successful hits
by a formula due to Mr W. L. Stevens. \\ e have also applied Mr
Stevens’s method of “ success groups .
Thus if the n guesses are written in a continuous ring and a = number
of successes, 6 = number of failures so that a + h = n, the expected
number of singletons is given by
abjb-1)
(a + b-l) {a + b-2)’
V = E + 1
with variance
-
(g-l)(6-l)(6-2)
_(a -t- 6 — 3) {a + b — 4)
Applying this to the (U.T.) results we find
E = 5650-77
V = 3123-18.
S.D.= VV= 55-89,
-e]
Whence
176 S. G. Soal [part
Actually there is a deficiency of singletons
Whence
= 104-77
-104-77
~ =r — 1 •R7
55-89
’
which is not significant.
The numbers (A) of singletons, doubles, etc., for both the (P.C.A.)
and (P.C.B.) work and the (U.T.) experiments are given in the table
below, together with E, the a priori expectations to nearest whole
numl)er.
These a priori expectations of singletons, rows of 2, 3, 4, 5 suc-
cesses denoted by Ej, Eg, Eg, E^, Eg, were computed from the
rnrmiilnn •
16n-(-8
~125 ’ E.
16»-8 16?i - 24
3125~
p _ 16n - 40 16;i-56
'“ 15,625’
where n is the total number of guesses, and runs are continued from
the end of one set of 25 to the beginning of the next with no break in
the sequence.
TABLE 8
Runs of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Consecutive Successes
Technique 1
3 4 5 or more
P.C. (A.B.) E 6,410 1,282 256 51 12-8
A 6,379 1,244 251 41 6
(U.T.) -
E 5,645 1,129 226 45 11-3
A 5,546 1,181 221 45 17
It is seen that in (U.T.) there is a slight positive excess in runs of
5 or more consecutive successes, but it is not significant.
For P.C.A. and P.C.B. we have
Ao. of Success Groups
Exjiectation
Deviation
S.D.
= 7921
= 7890-8
= +30-2
= 35-3
Hence there is no significant grouping of successful hits.
177
162] Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
Similarly for (U.T.) we have
No. of Success Groups =7010
Expectation =7067
Deviation = - 57
S.D. = 33-65
Hence again there is no significant “ crowding ” of successful hits.
{Note : In such a run as
sffssfsssffssssfsf
where s denotes a “ success ” and/ a “ failure ” there are 5 groups
of successes. If a run of guesses contains a successes and b failures
so that a + bis the total number of guesses, then the expected number
E of “ success groups ” is computed from the formida
^^g(6+l)
a + b
and the variance of this expression is equal to
E X b{a- 1)
(a + 6)(g + 6-l)
Counts were also made to discover whether (a) the Jirst sets of
25 guessed at a sitting were more successful than the average,
and (b) whether the first sets guessed by fresh percipients gave higher
scores than the average. Similar counts were made for first sets of
5 guesses. The results were negative in both cases.
Conclusion to Part I.
In the case of one group of persons, a significant tendency to score
shghtly below chance expectation has been noted in the Pure
Clairvoyance work which is absent in the telepathic experiments,
but the degree of significance (odds of about 50 to 1 )
is not such as
to inspire us with much confidence in the reahty of this effect. If,
indeed, this meagre result was all we had to show for the labour of
five years we should have felt justified in regarding the outcome of
the whole investigation as purely negative. Fortunately this is not
the case.
178 S. G. Soal [part
PART II
I wo Cases of Apparent Extra-Sensory Cognition
In May 1936 I was introduced by Mr Harry Price to a Mr D. A. S.,
a young consulting engineer who visited 13d Roland Gardens. He
acted as subject for 1000 (U.T.) experiments with either Mrs John-
stone or her daughter acting as agent. Mr S., who met Mrs and
Miss Johnstone for the first time at 13d Roland Gardens, scored
only chance results, but told us that his wife believed herself to be
the possessor of psychic gifts. She was unfortunately occupied in
the afternoons and unable to visit Roland Gardens. Mr S., however,
suggested that Mrs and Miss Johnstone and I should visit his home
in an outer suburb and try some experiments there in the evening.
This we did on .5th June 1936 at about 8.30 p.m. I had brought
with me the packs of cards, scoring sheets and rubber stamps. We
first rigged up a very efficient screen by suspending a thick doubled
blanket from a line stretched across the room, so that the free ends
of tlie blanket rested over the centre of a small talJe. Mr S. fixed
a vertical drawing board beneath the table to prevent any contact
of feet. I next arranged that Mr S. should sit in a line at right-angles
to the screen through its centre, and about 12 feet away on the side
opposite to the agents and the cards. Miss Johnstone and I sat at
the table on one side of the screen with Mrs S. on the other side.
Mrs Johnstone sat close behind her daughter. Having made these
dispositions, we carefully examined the room for the possibility of
^
reflections but found that no adjustments were necessary. The
cartls to be guessed were held by me one by one parallel to the screen i
and with their backs an inch or so away but without touching ’
The procedure then followed strictly that described under (U.T.) I
(p. 163) with Miss Johnstone acting as agent and witness. As we *
were late in starting, only four sets of 25 were guessed, the scores for
these being 7, 8, 7, 8 and the average time for guessing 2.5 cards
being about 4 minutes. No sjieaking was allowed while the guessing
was in progress.
°
The result w’as encouraging, and we arranged to meet again in
the same room at 8 p.m. on 17 June. The same persons were
present anrl precisely similar arrangements were made with regard
to seating, etc. The same screen also was used. This time Miss
Johnstone was again the agent, except for one set of 25, during which
her mother took her place at the request of Mrs S.
162]
Fresh Light on Card-Guessing 179
On this occasion six sets of 25 were guessed, giving the scores
7, 5, 9, 5, 6, 3, —a result which was not so promising.
At our next sitting on 24 June, Mr S. was absent, there being in
the room only Mrs and Miss Johnstone, Mrs S. and myself. The
scores were 5, 6, 2, 8, 4, 5—a chance result. Miss Johnstone was
agent for the first three sets and Mrs .Johnstone for the last three.
Miss J. now sitting exactly where her mother had sat.
On 1st July Mr S. was again present, and during the experiments
sat working at the far side of the room in a line at right angles to the
screen and on the opposite side to the cards. The scores were
3, 3, 7, 9, 8, 7, 3, 9.
On 8th July Miss Johnstone and Mr S. were both absent, there
being present only Mrs S., Mrs Johnstone and myself, Mrs J. acting
as agent. The scores were 8, 9, 2, 8, 4, 3, 8, 4.
On 22 July Mrs J., Miss J., Mr S., Mrs S., and I were present.
i\Ir S. sat in the same position relative to the screen as on 8 July,
and Mrs J. sat close behind her daughter when the latter was acting
as agent. Miss J. acted as agent for the first 6 sets of 25 and Mrs -T.
for the last 2 sets. The scores were 5, 6, 4, 8, 8, 5, 7, 5.
This concluded the first 1000 guesses with Mrs S. as subject
for (U.T.).
None of the scores are sensational, but on the 1000 guesses she
wins 238 successes which is just above 3-OxS.D. As an isolated
result the odds against this set being due to chance are about
370 to 1, but at that stage some 18 other persons had already
completed sets of 1000 guesses in (U.T.) and in addition about
25,000 guesses at (P.C.) had also been recorded. When considered
against this background, therefore, Mrs S.’ result has little or no
significance. M e are not, however, on that account justified in
ascribing it to chance, and subsequent developments suggest that
the chance explanation is a very improbable one.
Mrs S. now began her second thousand (U.T.) guesses under
similar conditions, but unfortunately the work was interrupted by
the summer vacation and was not resumed till November. It
soon became clear that chance scores only were being produced,
and I felt I could not afford the time wasted on the journeys to
Richmond. From now onwards only occasional sittings were held
and the second thousand was not completed till .Tune 4, 1937. The
same agents. Miss and IMrs Johnstone, were employed throughout
until the final 100 guesses which were witnessed by Miss Rita Elhott.
On her second thousand Mrs S. scored only 209 successes, a purely
chance result. Now and then hope flickered for an instant during
this series, as for instance when on 28 May, 1937, the subject began
180 S. G. Soal [part
a set of 25 with a run of 6 correct guesses, Mrs J. acting as
agent.
In the summer of 1938 Mrs S. did 925 (U.T.M.) experiments, using
the pointer and the same screen with the ^ inch gap which I had
used at University College. She scored 191 hits, which is only 6
above chance expectation. After this I felt it useless to continue
with the experiments.
Now as Mrs S. was the oidy (U.T.) subject who had shown any
promise at all, I decided to re-exainme her 2000 (U.T.) guesses when
Mr Carington asked me to look for “ displacement ” effects.
I began by counting hits obtained by comparing each guess (i)
with the card immediately preceding the actual card for which the
guess V as intended, and (n) with the card immediately following the
actual card for which the guess was intended. This will be clear
from the examples given below.
(i) Actual Card
-f
w \
Guess
0
4-
(ii) Actual Card
0
s
u
Guess
s -
w
Example (i) shows a po.st.-cognitive effect, for the successful hit is,
as it were, delayed by one place, while example (ii) shows a pre-
cognitive effect, for the percipient scores a successful hit one place
before the card is actually lifted from the pack for the agent to look
at. Perhaps a better word than “ precognitive ” woidd be “ antici-
patory ” because “ precognitive ” is usually associated with the idea
of seeing a future event which apparently is non-existent at the
moment when it is cognised. But the 25 card images already exist
objectively as a definite sequence in present time, and, for all we
^now, the guesser may gain his knowledge of the card one or more
p aces ahead liy exercising a faculty of clairvoyance in the present,
t, however, it should ultimately be jiroved that the giiesser’s
source of information is the ininfl of tlie person who looks at the
cards, then the guesser is precognising a future mental state of this
person which does not exist at the moment of guessing. It is
therefore an ojien question whether or not time enters into these
anticipatory effects ;
the present data do not permit us to settle
me question one way or the other. However, we can agree to call
Example (n) a i)re-cognitive guess if we abstract from the term
precognitive its purely temporal implications.
162 ]
Fresh Light on Card-Guessing 181
It is obvious that in a set of 25 guesses the maximum of possible
( + 1) and (-1) hits corresponding to Examples (i) and (ii) will be
24 of each, since the first guess cannot give rise to a “ postcognitive
”
hit nor the last guess to a “ precognitive ” hit as the 25 guesses
constitute a closed experiment.
Before I had finished scoring the first thousand guesses of Mrs S.’s
for ( + 1 )
and ( - 1 )
effects I saw that I had made a remarkable
discovery. I found there were 221 postcognitive successes as
compared with an expectation of 192, and 225 pre-cognitive successes
as against the same expectation of 192. These correspond to
positive deviations equivalent to 2-34 and 2-72 times the standard
deviation. But I asked myself ;
“ Would these postcognitive and
precognitive effects disappear in the second thousand guesses just
as the success on the ‘actual’ card had petered out?” To my
amazement the ( - 1
)
aird ( + 1
)
effects on the second thousand
continued unabated ! There were in fact 232 precognitive successes
and 221 postcognitive successes. These correspond to positive
deviations which are equivalent respectively to 3-23 and 2-34 times
the standard deviation.
So that on the whole 2000 guesses we have the following results :
TABLE 9
Hits DEV. S.D. X
On Actual Card 447 + 47 17-89 + 2-627
Postcognitive (
+ 1 )
- 442 + 58 17-53 + 3-309
Precognitive (
- 1
)
457 + 73 17-53 + 4-164
Thus on the three “central” counts (-1), (0), ( + 1) taken
together we have 1,346 hits with a positive deviation from expecta-
tion of -t-178 which is equivalent to -t 5-822 times the standard
deviation.
The chance of getting such a deviation on an isolated set of
2,000 guesses is less than 10^®. But if we divide the whole of our
128,350 guesses into batches of 2000 we should have about 64 such
batches. Very approximately, therefore, the chance of finding one
or more batches with a deviation as high as 178 is about 64 x 10~®,
i.e. the odds are of the order of a million to one against the result
being due to pure chance. Even if we multiply 10~® by 160,
the total number of percipients, the result is still highly signifi-
cant.
182 S. G. Soal [part
The 80 “ precognitive ” scores were :
First Thousand : 8, 7, 6, 6, 10, 11, 8, G, 5, 8, 4, ‘2, G, 3, 1, 8, 3, 3, 7,
3, 8, 4, 1, 3, 11, 5, 10, 3, 7, 7, 7, 5, 7, 5, 9, 5, 4, 3, 3, 3.
Second Thousand
:
2, 8, 9, 5, 1, 1, 8, 5, 11, 7, G, G, 10, 3, 4, 7, 6,
G, G, 5, G, 5, 9, 2, 4, 6, 7, 5, 8, 8, 5, 2, 2, 4, 10, 8, 7, 4, 7, 7.
The 80 “ actual ” card (0) scores were :
First Thousand : 7, 8, 7, 8, 7, 5, 9, 5, G, 3, 5, G, 2, 8, 4, 5, 3, 3, 7,
9, 8, 7, 3, 9, 8, 9, 2, 8, 4, 3, 8, 4, 5, G, 4, 8, 8, 5, 7, 5.
^
Second Thousand : 5, 3, 5, 5, 2, 5, 5, 9, 7, 9, 4, 6, G, G, 3, 7, 4, 4, J
5, 5, 4, 7, G, 9, 2, 9, 2, 5, 4, 5, 5, 4, 7, 5, G, 3, G, 2, 5, 8.
Tlie 80 “ postcognitive ” scores were :
First Thousand : 8, 7, G, 3, 7, 7, 7, G, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 2, 4, 5, 7, 4, 3,
4, 5, 8, 7, 5, 5, 5, 7, 9, G, G, 7, 4, 5, 7, 2, G, 4, 8, 4, G.
*SVcoud Thousand : 5, 3, 8, 7, 10, 7, 7, 5, 5, 7, 3, 4, 7, 3, 3, 7, 5, 4,
3, G, 3, 5, 3, 9, 10, 9, 7, 9, 3, 4, 7, 4, 2, 1, G, G, G, 10, 2, G.
My next stej) was to compare each guess with the card that was |
situated two places after and two places before the actual card for
|
which the guess was intended, and count the numbers of hits in each
set of 25. It is clear that the maxinmin number of successes that
could be scored on this plan is 23 (precognitive) and 23 (post-
cognitive) in every set of 25. It will be convenient to denote by
(-2) the precognitive guesses and by (-f 2) the postcognitive
guesses when the displacement is two cards forward or backward.
I then counted the hits on ( - 3) and ( -i-3) displacements and so on
as far as (
- 8) and ( -f 8). The results are set out in Table 10.
It will be seen from this table that besides the three central values
there is one other quite significant deviation—a negative one—at •
( + 2). This occurs also in the work of the other subject (Mr B. S.), !
and I shall try to jirobe its meaning later.
If the 17 values of x are squared and added in Talile 10 we find
'
= 48-73, which with n = 17 gives (P<10^^).
162]
Fresh Light on Card-Guessing 183
TABLE 10
Mrs S.
Displacements up to (±8) on 80 Sets of 25
Hits E S.D. X
-8 254 272 14-75 - 1-22
63 -7 299 288 15-18 + 0-72
-6 334 304 15-59 + 1-92
W
2; -5 344 320 16-00 + 1-50
O
O -4 330 336 16-40 -0-37
CJ
w -3 358 352 16-78 + 0-36
Ph _ 2 368 368 17-16 ±0-00
-1 457 384 17-53 + 4-164
0 447 400 17-89 + 2-627
+ 1 442 384 17-53 + 3-309
> + 2 315 368 17-16 - 3-089
+ 3 339 352 16-78 -0-775
iz;
C5
o
+ 4 340 336 16-40 + 0-26
+ 5 317 320 16-00 -0-19
Eh
+ 6 293 304 15-59 -0-71
O -1-7 293 288 15-18 + 0-33
+ 8 282 272 14-75 + 0-68
The Second Percipient Mr B. 8.
On February 5, 1936, Mr B. S., a well-known London photo-
grapher, called at 1 3d Roland Gardens and asked if he might try
some telepathic experiments with cards. He had read an article
in the Sunday press dealing with my investigation, but hastened to
add that the prizes mentioned for high scoring were of no interest
to him. He had come, he said, “ not to be tested ”, but “ to demon-
strate to us the reality of telepathy ”. He told us that often of
an evening he had amazed his friends by “ guessing through a pack
of playing cards from top to bottom ” and getting “ most of them
right ”. That afternoon there happened to be present in the
room Mr J. Aldred, whom I have known since the year 1922, and
Mrs Crane who took part in the 1928-29 long distance tests. Mr
Aldred had kindly come at my request to assist me as a witness
for Mrs Crane who had come by appointment, but who kindly con-
sented to wait till Mr B. S. had finished, since he had to leave early.
I am reasonably certain that neither Mrs Crane nor IMr Aldred
184 S. G. Soal [part
(wlio is a friend of mine) had ever met Mr B. S. before, and he
a])])eared to be a stranger to everybody at Roland Gardens. We
were not actually expecting him this afternoon though he had
telc])honed to say he would call one day that week. His manner
was extremely assured and confident, and we were didy impressed.
After I had explained the technicpie to him we began with (U.T.)
ex])eriments, using the 3' by 3' plywood screen which was ordinarily
in ]iosition above the table. I placed Mrs Crane on the same side
of tlie screen as Mr B. S. and directly behind him so that she could
watch him. Mr Aldred acted as agent, with myself as experimenter.
M e sat m the usual ])ositions described under (U.T.). I was especi-
ally on my mettle as I stood to lose a large sum of money should
Mr B. S. score a 15. 1 therefore earnestly exhorted Mr Aldred to
keep his lips firmly closed during the perioils of guessing. In other
respects the method did not deviate in any way from that described
under the general technique for (U.T.). The ]iercipient began by
scoring a 10 and then a 7. We all thought this an excellent start,
but Mr B. S. said the scores were “ very ]ioor ” and asked if “ this
lady meaning Mrs Crane, could take Mr Aldred’s place as agent.
M'hereu])on Mv Aldred rose ai\d sat beside Mr B. S. on the other
side of the screen while Mrs Crane took his jilace. Mr B. S. now
scored 7, G, G, 3. After the last set he saitl it was useless for him
to continue. He was best at this kind of thing in the evening
especially after he luul had a drink or two. He ])romised, however,
to visit us again in a fortnight’s time when he was less busy. Actu-
ally we did not see him again until the afternoon of March 27, 193G,
when the only jierson available as a witness and agent was Mrs
Dwyer who had ]u-eviously assisted me in the same capacity on
several occasions, and who had taken ])art in the 1928-29 experi-
ments. \ isual imagery was emjdoyed by Mrs Dwyer, and the
scores were 1, G, G, 7, 3, 4, 4, 3, which is just slightly below chance
expectation. No one entereil the room during the series, there
being ])resent only Mr B. S., Mrs Dwyer and myself.
On April 3, 193(i, Mr B. S. came again to 13d Roland Gardens
and did 2()() guesses with Mr H. Heckle acting as agent and witness.
No one was in the room except the agent, the experimenter and
Mr B. (S. the scores were 8, G, 5, G, 4, 5, G, 8, a result which is a
little above chance expectation but not significantly so.
Mr B. 8. now said tliat he would like to try the experiments in the
L'vening at his own studio in the West Eiul. After some telephonin.
I ultimately arranged for 7 p.m. on June 25, 193G. I asked him if
i\lr Aldred might act as agent and he agreed as I said I could not
be sure of getting anyone else. J\lr Aldred and I went together to
102]
Fresh Light on Card-Guessing 185
the studio, and after chatting for a few minutes Mr B. 8. said tliat
before starting he must luive a drink. We all three adjourned to
a public house nearby where Mr Aldred and I had one lager eacli
and Mr B. S. consumed a libation of brandy and soda. We then
returned to the studio and rigged u]) a (|uite efiicient screen,
measuring about 3' x 3', from several very large sheets of stiff card-
board pinned together with drawing pins. I had lirought in my
case one of the two boxes of cards and the rubber stamps and
scoring sheets. A large sheet of stiff cardboard was also fastened
in a vertical position beneath the table. The scores were agcain
disappointing, being 6, 2, 2, 1, 3, 0, 6, 6, 5, 4. Mr B. S. attributed
his failure this time to the noise ol traffic which was certainly
disturbing. He invited me to dine with him “ some time in the
autumn ” and try some more tests in his ])iivate flat, but the ])lan
did not materialise.
In all Mr B. 8. did 800 guesses with 105 correct hits, which is
ajiparently a chance result.
After having worked out the dis])lacement effects of Mrs 8.’s
2000 guesses, I examined for (
-1-
1) and (
- 1) effects a good many of
my (U.T.) records but did not go beyond ( ± 1 )• My natural interest
in Mr B. 8.’s personality led me to look into his record, and once
again 1 made an astonishing discovery. Not only did 1 find v(>ry
pronounced ( + 1) and (
- 1) effects but the negative deviation on the
(-(-2) scores, which I had noted in the case of the other percipient
Mrs 8., were also very marked. 1 scored Mr B. 8.’ 32 sets of 25 as
far as ( ±8) displacements, and the results are set out in Table
11 .
On the three central values (—1), (!•)) ( + ^) seen that
we have 554 hits as com])ared with an expectation of !b7-2. ffffiis
denotes a positive excess of successful hits equivalent to 4'4!J x 8.D.
with P<1()“‘' for an isolated set of 800 guesses. But the whoh‘
material could be divided into about IfiO consecutive blocks of
800 guesses, and very approximately the chance of finding one or
more blocks with the above excess of hits is of the order 1 in 000.
M
186 S. G. Soul [PABT
TABLE 11
Mr B. S.
Displacements up to ±8 for 32 Sets op 25
Hits E S.D. X
-8 113 108-8 9-33 + 0-45
-7 116 115-2 9-60 + 0-08
H -6 122 121-6 9-86 + 0-04
-5 131 128-0 10-12 + 0-30
o -4 140 134-4 10-37 + 0-54
O
— o 144 140-8 10-61 + 0-30
— 2 147 147-2 10-85 -0-02
-1 194 153-6 11-08 + 3-65
0 165 160 11-31 + 0-44
>
+1
+ 2
195
115
153-6
147-2
11-08
10-85
+ 3-74
-2-97
-p3 119 140-8 10-61 - 2-05
C -t-4 139 134-4 10-37 + 0-44
O
O + 5 121 128-0 10-12 -0-69
H + 6 127 121-6 9-86 + 0-55
O
Ph + 7 1
124 115-2 9-60 + 0-92
+ 8
1
112 108-8 9-33 + 0-34
For the 17 values of we find S\;j^2) = 43-14, which with n = 17 gives
P<0-0005. ^
It will be observed that there is on tlie whole no significant scoring
on the actual card (0) but the few high scores with which the per-
cipient began his guessing on February 5 at least suggest that he
began by hitting the mark switched off to ( ±1) and never found
it again. Mrs S., on the other hand, kept intermittently to
the mark for a thousand guesses and then lost it almost com-
pletely.
It is instructive to see how the performance of Mr B. S. varied
with the agent, although of course no satisfactory conclusions can
be drawn as to whether any particular person favoured successful
guessing.
The results appear in Table 12. It would appear that the only
occasion on which Mr B. S. failed to obtain a -f excess of (±1)
guesses w as on April 3, 1936, when Mr Heckle was the agent.
162 ]
Fresh Light on Card-Guessing 187
TABLE 12
( ±1) Performances with the Different Agents
Agent 1. Mr Aldred
Dates Guesses combined + 1 Hits E X
5/2/36 96 14 19-2
25/6/36 480 126 96
Totals 576 140 115-2 + 2-6
Date
5/2/36
Date
211^136
Date
3/4/36
Agent 2. Mrs Crane
+ Guesses combined (
+ 1) Hits E
192 51 38-4
Agent 3. Mrs Dwyer
J; Guesses comtiined {
+ 1) Hits E
480 118 96
Agent 4. Mr Heckle
Guesses comtiined E
480 80 96
X
+ 2-3
X
+ 2-5
X
- 1-8
The Theory of Mnitiple Determination.
At tliis stage it seems advisable to try to form some ])ictiire of
what is going on. We have evidently found two persons who score
±1 successes much more easily than they score successes on the
actual card that is being looked at by the agent. If tliey score
significantly on the actual card it is only for a short time and then
their aim becomes biassed so as to hit the card before or the card
after. Presently, as is the case with both percipients, they fail to
score significantly on the actual card itself but continue to score
±\ hits. I do not think it likely that I have any more (U.T.)
records which show the ±1 span of cognition since I have (at least
summarily) gone through all my (U.T.) records with a view to finding
± 1 cases. But it is conceivable that there may be persons with a
( ±2) span of cognition.
Now it seems plausible to assume that in the cases of Mrs S. and
Mr B. S. two images are present in the subconscious, the + 1 image
and the - 1 image, both struggling to emerge into consciousness.
Judging from the results, these appear to be of about equal dynamic
188 S. G. Goal [part
energy, and when these two images are of different symbols one
might assume it was about e(|iially likely whether one or the other
succeeded in pushing its way above the conscious threshold. But
if the ±1 images ivere of the same symbol, it might be reasonable to
assume that one image, reinforced the other, and that the percipient
was more likely to score a correct hit in such a case.
I shall call a guess “ multiply determined ” if it belongs to one of
the four following types :
Tijjje 1 Type II
Actual Card Sequence
+
Actual Card Sequence
+
0
0
8
0
0
8
Type III Type IV
Artnal (Jard Seqiieure
+
0
-t-
Arinal fUnxl Sequence
+
+ <
+
In each exanpile the arrow points to the actual card for which the
present guess is intended.
Thus 111 Type I we might suppose that the actual card image is
possibly reinforced by the ( - 1) image, and in Type II by the ( + 1)
image, while in lype III it might be that the. (
il) images reinforce
each other. Possibly in Type IV all three images might assist the
guesser in getting the actual card correct.
Any guess which does not lielong to one of the four types illustrated
by the above examples we sliall call “ non-multiply-deterniined
”
(N.M.D.).
Now it is easy to see that multiple-determination of Types I, II
and IV does not apparently assist the guesser in getting the
actual card correct.
For instance, in the case of the first thousand guesses of Mrs 8.,
we have
’
No. of guesses M.D. of Types 1, II, IV =341.
,, successes on Actual Card == 78.
162] Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
Expected No. of successes on Actual Card
341
189
1000
341 X 238
1000
X Total No. of Successes
= 81-1.
The difference is so small that we need not trouble about examin-
ing the second thousand since it was only on her first thousand
guesses that the subject scored significantly on the actual
Again in the case of Mr B. S., the number of M.D. guesses of
Types I and II is 272 and the number of successes on the actual card
is 64.
But the expected number of successes on the actual card on these
272 M.D. guesses is x 272 = 56T.
Here although there is a slight excess of successes on M.D. guesses
it is not significant.
Multiple-determination of Type III is far more interesting.
For the 2,000 guesses of Mrs S. (equivalent to 3,840 ( ±1) guesses
combined) I have made out the following contingency table .
TABLE 13
Mrs S.
Showing Effect of M.D. 3 on ±1 Guesses
S = No. of Correct Hits, (either ±1).
F = „ Incorrect Hits, (whether ±1).
M.D.3 = .,,
Multiply-Determined Guesses, Type HI.
N.MD.3 = „ Guesses not Multiply-Determined of Type III.
S F Totals
M.D.3 164 340 .504
N.M.D.3 - 735 2,601 3,336
Totals 899 2,941 3,840
m2
190 S. G. Soal [part
For this table we find = so that the odds against the
excess of ( ±1) hits on M.D.3 guesses being due to chance are many
millions to 1. It is clearly not worth while applying Yates’s correc-
tion in such a case.
In the case of Mr B. S., the effect of M.D.3 on ( ± 1 )
successes is
even more striking. The results are set out in the following con-
tingency table ;
TABLE 14
Mr B. S.
Showing Effect of M.D.3 on ±1 Guesses
X F Totals
-M.D.3 90 104 194
N..M.D.3 - 299 1,043 1,342
Totals 389 1,147 1 ,536
giving = 51 .
} 1 ^
giving 7
Here again the excess of correct hits on M.U.3 guesses is highly
significant.
As the number of guesses of Type IV is necessarily small it did not
seem worth while to examine this case separately.
It would seem that the -h 1 and — 1 images are incapable of
reinforcing the actual card ” image—perhajis because post and
jirecognitivc images being both in the unconscious are of a different
quality from the image which has become the conscious property
of the agent. On the other hand, the -|- 1 and — 1 images, being
both outside the conscious field of the agent, are capable of acting
in conjunction.
The Nef/afive Deviation on ( + 2) Guesses.
In the case of both sulijects we have noted very significant
neuahve deviations on the ( + 2) guesses. It is difiicult to suppose
that these deviations—which amount to 3-089 xS.D. in the case
ol Mrs S. and 2-97 x S.I). in the case of Mr B. S. —are the work of
chance. At first sight it seemed possible that the tendency to get
the (-1-2) guess wrong might be a mere logical consequence of
getting a large excess of ( -r 1
)
guesses right. For it is a fact that the
majority of guessers show a tendency to change from one symbol to
another more frerpiently than happens in a purely random sequence
162] Fresh Light on Card-Guessing 191
of card-symbols. In other words, most people’s records show a
lesser number of “ repeats ” than occur in a random series. If
therefore the guesser gets a ( + 1 )
guess right and changes his guess
for the following card he automatically gets his ( -I- 2) guess wrong.
But if this is the whole explanation of the matter we ought to find
that those sets of 25 which contain a large number of ( -}-
1) successes
contain a small number of (4-2) successes. In other w^ords, the
( + 1) and ( -I- 2) scores ought to show a significant negative correla-
tion. But this does not appear to be the case. In fact, for the
first 1,000 guesses of Mrs S. (40 sets of 25) there is a small positive
correlation of 0-113 which is not significant, and in the case of
i\Ir B. S., with 800 guesses (32 sets of 25) there is a small negative
correlation of - 0-287 between the ( -I- 1) and the (
-1-
2) scores which
is again without significance.
The next question to be decided was : Does the guesser tend to
change his guess more frequently immediately following a (-1-1)
success than in the case immediately following a (
-
1
-
1 )
failure ?
To attempt to answer this I made out the following contingency
tables for Mrs S. and Mr B. S. respectively.
TABLE 15
Mrs S.
1840 (4-2) Guesses
No. of( + l)
Guesses correct
No. o/( + l)
Guesses Incorrect
Totals
Cases with next guess
changed -
372 1,175 1,547
Cases with no change in
next guess 54 239 293
Totals 426 1,414 1,840
After making Yates’s correction we find ;<^ = 4-058 giving ;^
=2-01.
Thus there is a slight but not marked tendency for the subject to
change his guess after getting a (4- 1) success more frequently than
after a (4-1) failure.
But in the case of Mr B. S. there is apparently no such tendency,
the changes of guess being proportionately distributed on (4-1)
correct and ( -r 1) incorrect guesses.
192 S. G. Soal [part
TABLE 16
Mr B. S.
736 ( + 2) Guesses
No. of i + 1)
guesses correct
No. of ( + 1 )
guesses incorrect
Totals
Cases with next guess
changed 158 458 616
Cases with no cliange in
next guess 32 88 120
Totals 190 546 736
This gives ;;;“ = 0-014 (with Yates’s correction) and the result is
without significance.
In the case of Mr B. S., there are 115 ( + 2) successes, and an
inspection of Table IG shows that he obtained 32 ( + 2) hits which
immediately follow ( + 1) successes. Hence on the 546 ( ^- 2) guesses
which immediately follow (-fl) failures we might expect, on the
assumption that successes on these 546 guesses are due to chance
alone, just 109-2 correct hits, whereas actually there are 115- 32 = 83
correct hits. This is a deficiency equivalent to 2-8xS.D., and is
certainly significant.
Evidently, therefore, with Mr B. S. there is a marked tendency
to score heloiv chance exjrectation on those (
+ 2) guesses which
follow mcorrect ( + 1) guesses.
In fact, since he changes his guess 616 times in 736 guesses, we
should, on the assumption that the ( + 2) successes on guesses which
follow correct ( + 1) guesses are a mere consequence of the subject’s
ycneral tendency to change his guess, expect that in the 190 cases
which follow ( + 1) successes he would score
616
190--— X 190=31 correct hits.
736
He actually scores 32. It will now be quite clear that, with Mr
B. S., no psychological explanation is required to account for the
scores which follow ( + 1) successes ;
it is the deficiency of correct
hits which follow ( + 1 )
failures that requires elucidation. I would
suggest the following hypothesis. When the subject scores a ( + 1)
success with a certain card image, this image having fomid expression
in consciousness ceases to worry the subject any longer, and his next
162 ]
Fresh Light on Card-Guessing 193
guess is not influenced by it. In cases when the subject has called
a ivro7ig ( + 1 )
guess, the correct card image corresponding to this
guess is, however, present in his subconscious mind and continues
to worry him because it ha?s not succeeded in emerging correctly
above the threshold. In order to exorcise this disturbing image
at the iiext guess, the subject pointedly ignores it by choosing one
of the other four symbols. It was Dr Thouless who first suggested
to me the idea of mental “ exorcism ” by thinking of something
different, and in ordinary life we are constantly making use of this
subconscious mechanism in order to rid ourselves of painful experi-
ences.
Our hypothesis is, therefore, that subconsciously the guesser knows
that he has the correct ( + 1) image in his mind, but knows also that
he failed to get it over the threshold. Probably, therefore, at his
next guess, he knows that this image is now “ out of the running
”
and to get rid of it he chooses anything but this particular symbol.
Hence the tendency to get the (4-2) guess ivrong.
But the theory does not perhaps apply quite so well to the case
of Mrs S. In her case we should—on the assumption that the
deficiency of (4-2) liits following on (-bl) successes is a logical
consequence of a ge?ieral tendency for the subject to change her
guess—expect to find on the 426 cases following (-41) successes
whereas there are actually 54.
This is a deficiency of 13-8 with S.D. = 7-55, so that there is still
no reason to assume that (4-2) failures following (4-1) successes
are due to anything beyond the general tendency of the subject
to change her guess.
Again on the 1,414 (4-2) guesses of IVIrs S. which immediately
follow (4-1) failures we should, on the assumption of chance, expect
to find 282-8 correct hits whereas there are actually 315-54 = 261.
This is a deficit of 21-8 with S.D. = 15-04, but this deficit is only
equivalent to 1-45 xS.D. compared with the corresponding deficit
of 2-8 X S.D. in the case of Mr B. S.
In fact, in the case of Mrs S., the total expectation—allowing for
deficit due to general tendency to change guess—is 282-84-67-8
= 350-6 correct (4-2) hits on the 1,840 (4-2) guesses, and the actual
total of correct hits is 315 showing a deficit of 35-6 which is only just
over 2 x S.D. In the case of Mrs S., therefore, the psychological
hypothesis is not so necessary to account for the deficit as it is in the
- =67-8 correct hits.
case of Mr B. S.
194 S. G. Soal [part
I need hardly point out that in a random ” series of n ^nesses
the expected number of “changes of guess” is obviously fxn,
and hence that if the subject’s tendency to change guess did not
exceed f-w, his ( + 2) scores would not be affected nornially by ( + 1)
successes.
Can the results he ex-plained normally?
1
.
It does not seem reasonable to try to explain the i 1 successes
on the hypothesis of involuntary whispering, or sensory cues derived
through noting changes of breathing, etc. In the case of Mrs S.,
for instance, the (
- 1) or effect of precognition is much the strongest
of the three effects (0), (
— 1), ( + 1). But, on the assumption of
normal leakage, this is precisely the effect that ought to be the
weakest! It is possible (though improbable) that the agent might
whisper the name of the card he was looking at, and it is conceivable
that this whisper might influence the trend of Mrs S.’ thought
without her lieing conscious of the stimulus. It is even con-
ceivable that the stimulus might require some time for it to emerge
in her consciousness and so produce a pos<-cognitive effect (-1-1).
But how is the (-1) effect to be explained on this hypothesis?
We should have to suppose that, through long experience with the
40 packs of cards, the agent Mrs J. or Miss J. had learned to recognise
certain of the cards by noting small specks on their backs, and so
had become aware of the denomination of the card which was resting
face downwards on top of the pack ready to be lifted off for the
next guess. We might suppose that the image was then transferred
by involuntary whisj^ering. But even if this far-fetched hypothesis
had any truth in it, the giiesser would surely win the Inilk of his
successes on the card whose face the agent was gazing at, and not
on the card ivhose hack only was visible to him.
2. Iiecisely similar objections apply to the hypothesis of an
auditory or other code deliberately arranged between Mrs S. and
one of the agents. How could such a code enable Mrs S. to obtain
(—1) hits equivalent to 4-16 times the standard deviation? More-
over, how could the very definite effect of Type III multiple deter-
mination be accounted for on the hypothesis of a code?
3. Even if we assume (and extensive experiment shows this is -not
the case) that the slight differences in the shape of the rubber
stamps can be discriminated liy slight differences of the sound they
cause on impact with the paper, this would not enable the guesser
to get tlie card one j:)lace ahead correct.
4. If we make tlie quite absurd assumption that there was a small
10 e in the screen through which Mrs S. was able to peer, it could
162]
195
Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
scarcely assist her except to enable her to get the exposed card
correct, and she failed to get this card correct after the first 1000
guesses. •
•
i j-
5. Let us now consider possible objections of a statistical nature.
In the first place it will be as well to observe that we do not claim
to “ prove ” telepathy or precognition by means of statistics in the
sense that one sets out to prove the validity of a theorem in mathe-
instics
These phenomena will be established in a scientific sense when we
understand enough about them to be able to ensure their occurrence
with reasonable frequency by experimental means. All that statis-
tical methods can do is to tell us how hkely it is that the effects we
observe are fortuitous. In some cases the probability that the
results are not due to chance may be so great as to amount to moral
certitude, but, however careful the exjierimentation may have been,
and however great the odds against the hypothesis of chance, we
cannot hope to furnish the absolute proof of a mathematical pro-
position, or even the empirical proof of an experiment in physics
which can be repeated at will. All we venture to claim is that
the present investigation is a definite contribution to that rapidly
growing mass of experimental evidence which is in favour of the
reality of the phenomena of extra-sensory cognition. We believe
that the odds against chance are sufficiently high and the experi-
mental precautions sufficiently careful to merit the most serious
attention.
Now it might be urged that the present investigation was^ not
originally intended as an enquiry into precognitive or post-cognitive
effects but was, in the first instance, a straightforward attempt to
discover if there was any truth in I)r Rhine s claim that certain
persons were able to divine correctly the figure on a card which was
being looked at by an experimenter. Hence it might be argued that
I ought to have confined myself to the task in hand and have left
precognitive effects severely alone. Against this I would point out
that Dr Rhine himself claimed that precognitive effects could be
demonstrated by the use of Zener cards, and Mr &. N. M. Tyrrell
claims to have obtained precognitive results by the use of a s])ecial
apparatus which involved the choice by the subject of one of five
operations. In my study of precognition I was testing a pheno-
menon for which there is a good deal of very impressive evidence
both of a spontaneous and an experimental kind. I was not merely
forming an irresponsible conjecture and then seeking statistical
evidence with which to support it. The a priori evidence for pre-
cognition has been very ably analysed by Mr H. F. Saltmarsh in a
196 S. O. Soal [part
long and important paper [Proceedings, Part 134, pp. 49-103], and
I have yet to meet with any serious refutation of his conclusions,
which are entirely favourable to the reality of precognition as a
spontaneous mental phenomenon. I find invariably that the persons
who maintain that there is no serious evidence for telepathy or pre-
cognition are those who have not taken the trouble to study the
Proceedings of the Society. Until they have made this study they
are not competent to air their negative ojrinions. I need hardly
mention that posi-cognitive effects of a spontaneous kind permeate
the whole of the records of psychical research, or that Frederic Myers
made a special study of them.
Now it is worth noting that my own technique—on the statistical
side at least—is as well adapted for testing (
il) effects as for
testing successes on the actual card itself, and the investigation of
such effects might well have formed a part of my original programme.
In fact, as far back as 1935, I scored about 20,000 of the Pure Clair-
voyance (P.C.B.) guesses for po6f-cognitive (-tl) successes, on the
suggestion of Professor Thouless, without, however, discovering any
evidence of a deferred effect.
It cannot be argued that I applied statistical tests to a large
number of features of my data and then chose the one feature,
i.e. (±1) effects, which happened to give high odds against the
hypothesis of chance. Nothing, indeed, would be further from the
truth. It was at Mr Carington’s suggestion that I examined my
records for displacement effects, and in selecting the records of Mrs S.
and of Mr B. S. I was guided entirely by my belief that these two
subjects were psychical sensitives. The first of all the records to
be examined was that of Mrs S., and the successes in the three
central positions yielded odds against chance of the order of a
million to one even when estimated against the background of
128,350 guesses.
Some critic may question my right to select the three central
values for separate statistical evaluation. My answer is : (a) Any
sane person testing the results for precognitive and postcognitive
effects would be naturally interested in testing the actual card, the
immediately preceding card and the one immediately following, and
{h) that with such material as the Zener cards, where the same five
symbols occur over and over again, it is very difficult to imagine
how large displacement effects could be detected, even if they
occurred, since successes spread out over a number of displace-
ments would be very diluted. It was entirely to be expected that
if any displacement effect existed this would be most easily detected
in positions close to the actual card.
162]
197
Fresh Light on Card-Guessing
But we have seen that in the case of both percipients if the
seventeen values of {f) are summed corresponding to the displace-
ments up to ( ±8),
the values of S(z^) obtained are so large that the>
lie right outside Fisher's tables. This in itself should be a siilhcient
answer to those who would question the propriety of choosing the
three central values for special evaluation.
One could, of course, apply statistical tests to attempt to discover
all kinds of bizarre relations among different features of the data,
but if the effects sought for were sijsteniatic effects extending over
•2000 guesses (as with Mrs S.), it would be a remarkable miracle
indeed if the odds against chance turned out to be of the order of a
million to one. And it would be an asto^onding coinbination of
miracles if each of the cases which exhibited the hrst effect showed
also a confirmatory effect with odds again of the order of millions to
one. For this is what actually happened. The records of both
Mrs S. and Mr B. S. showed that if the card to be guessed w-as sand-
wiched between two cards of the same denomination the (
+ 1 )
successes were enhanced to an extraordinary degree. In fact we
find that Mr B. S. achieves 46° o of ( ±1) successes on the
_
sand-
wiched ” cards and only 22% on the remainder. Mrs b. wms .36 /o
on the “ sandwiched ” cards and 22% on the rest. These differences
are not small discrepancies ;
they point to fundamental psycho-
logical factors at work. ii
Moreover I did not discover this effect by trying out statiMically
a large number of fantastic hypotheses until I succeeded in fine ing
one which gave odds of millions to one against chance. If such had
been my method I might have gone on testing hypotheses till the
end of my days. I discovered the effect by the perfectly natural and
commm-sense argument that if the ( ± 1 )
effects were genuine they ought
to reinforce each, other when the card lay between two cards of the seme
symbol. In fact I actually suggested the probability of the effect
to Dr Thoiiless one evening on a visit to his house and before I ac
made any counts whatever. i i 4. 1,
In conclusion, all the experiments have been witnessed and the
records checked at the time by another inteUigent person in addition
to the experimenter. They have not been “ hole in the corner
affairs Can the same be said for a great many of the orthodox
investigations of experimental psychology?
If the conclusions of Mr Carington and myself put into question
certain cherished dogmas of psychology such, for instance as the
dogma which states pompously that “ nothing can enter the mind
except by wav of the five senses ”, then we say boldly, bo much
the worse for the dogma! ” Indeed, the truth is that experimental
198 S. G. Soal [part 162
psychology is still so far from being an exact science that from its j
own house of glass it can scarcely afford to throw stones at psychical i
research. Orthodox experimental psychology today consists largely '
;
of a number of disconnected and relatively unimportant “re-
searches ” ;
it has no comprehensive theory by which to account for
the phenomena of mental life. Psychical Research offers it some-
thing of real importance, and of real interest to humanity.
As for those narrow and limited specialists of science, who, devoid
of philosophic outlook, label such careful investigations as those
which Mr Carington and I have conducted with the generic name of i
“ spooks ”, and pass on, we may safely leave them to the contempt I
of future generations. i
REVIEWS
I
Infinite Traveller. By Charlotte Bacon. Williams & Norgate.
7s. 6d. net.
This is a book of considerable interest to those who cannot, or at
all events do not, read the professional philosophers, but are
anxious to think clearly about the nature and destiny of human life.
Its mterest for students of psychical research will be the stronger,
the more they consider it a mam object of the research to throw
light upon the nature of personality. Three main motives for
psychical research can be traced : scientific curiosity about events
that seem to be outside the known, or “ normal ”, pattern of cause
and effect ;
desire for evidence bearing on the question of survival :
and mterest in the extended conception of personality which may be
inferred from evidence of the paranormal. Mrs Bacon touches upon
such evidence only as having relevance to a much wider discussion
of the meaning of human life. But this wider discussion rejrresents
the framework within which all speculation upon the extension of
human personality has to be conducted ;
and it is a good thing to
have the general evidence so well marshalled as in this book for the
proposition that man is more, and aims at more, than his science
can yet descrilre to him.
Mrs Bacon maintains with considerable force that we are in an
illogical position if we draw a hard and fast line between the reality
of things perceived and the reality of qualities and values which are
apprehended by other functions of the mmd than perception in its
narrower sense. '
We must either take man-the-experiencer m his
entirety or, determined to pick and choose among his news-collecting
powers, we must decide to trust the rejiorts of his calculating faculty
alone.” We need some such phrase as “ calculating faculty ”, here,
because of the often-forgotten fact that our sense-data are not
directly given from the outer world. As Mrs Bacon puts it, \\ e do
not know and cannot guess how a brain-impress becomes a thought.
In short, we cannot detect any news in the act of becoming news.”
The mmd cannot apprehend the “ news ” brought in by the
senses without apprehending qualities ;
it cannot apprehend quali-
ties (nor, we could add, quantities) without making valuations ;
and it thus applies a discrimination of values which is an essential
199
200 Reviews [part
part of its apprehension of reality. But once we admit values into
our scheme of reality (such as the truth of an impression received,
or of a logical statement about it, or of a mathematical process for
testing it), where is the sharp dividing line between the mind’s report
of things and its report of their meaning and significance? Actually,
the line is drawn by science so as to include just those kinds of
valuation which it can usefully emjjloy for its own purposes. It is a
problem for psychical research, as also for jrsychology, whether this
convenient line is rightly drawn for us who attempt to estimate
perceptions not hitherto within the range of formal science.
j\Irs Bacon devotes several chapters to the demolition of the
materiahstic, or mechanistic, view of life. Such argument inevitably
chases its own tail, since in a mechanistic world ideas can have no
validity, and any theory is as meaningless as another, uicluding the
mechanistic theory. But the point emerges with increasing urgency
that human experience, the very fact that there is such a thing as
human experience, is left entirely unexplained in any world of which
the mechanism alone is taken into account. And since human ex-
perience is our only source of evidence, the materialistic demon-
stration has the disadvantage of starting nowhere, as in practice it
ends nowhere.
In any case, science has increasingly found that the study of
material objects resolves itself into a study of energy and of the fields
of influence by which energy is directed. In proceeding to show the
highly potent directive power, and the constructive or destructive
effect, of human values at their different levels of truth or falsity,
Mrs Bacon is putting values in their proper place as subjects of
scientific discourse. They are facts which direct the energies of
humanity, for good or ill. They have produced manifest results in
that structure of human life which is our real and intimate environ-
ment. And in this structure, Mrs Bacon argues that it is absurdly
inconsistent to leave the properties of “ spiritual man ” out of
account. For one thing, “ no experience can be left in the air, un-
accounted for ” :
“ either the mystic-saint’s experience must be
theoretically fitted in to biological life’s Real, or oirr ideas of Reality
must be theoretically enlarged beyond that scene of physical Reality
which biological life occupies, surveys and knows.”
For another thing, “ If the potentialities of Man are to be ascer-
tained the search must be conducted to the extremity of his achieve-
ments. Should a moimtain’s height be the object of inquiry, its
lesser heights and its average height are ignored, for a mountain is
exactly as high as its highest ])eak, however narrow and cloud-
capped that peak may be.” We are here in a region where the
Reviews 201
162]
philosophy, however true and important in itself, may be thought
to chnib higher than psychical research has any business to follow.
But it is of considerable value to us to be given a comprehensive
view of the whole mountain, if we are to have a right and propor-
tionate idea of the particular ridges and valleys which it is our
business to explore. This book presents a comprehensive view o
human faculty, actual and potential, which has a certain kins up
with the outlook proclaimed by F. W. H. Myers, though Mrs Bacon s
approach and treatment are widely different from those employed
by the author of Human Personality. It is an outlook that keeps
research in touch with a wider, philosophical frame of reference, and
has its influence in keeping both the theory and the practice of
research from neglect of the climatic conditions which fundamentally
affect the quality of all psychic events.
II
Mijthology of the Soul, A Research into the Unconscious from ScJnzo-
phrenic Dreams and Drawings : H. G. Baynes. Bailliere
Tindall and Cox, 1940 : pp. xii-l-912 ;
32s. 6d.
Dr Baynes is well known as a leading member of the Jung school
of psychology, and many of our members will recall the paper he read
to the Society in 1936 on “ The Ghost as a Psychic Phenomenon .
In his first chapter he gives a brief account of the development of
the psychological conception of mental disorders, as viewed from the
standpoint of Jung, whose theories are probably not as well known
in this country as those of Freud. Dr Baynes describes hov both
Jung and Freud, working independently, arrived by different
methods—psychological experiment, particularly association tests,
and clinical experience—at a more dynamic conception of the un-
conscious than had till then obtained. “ Jung’s conception of the
autonomous complex became the syncretising basis which united the
classical conceptions of the French school with those of Freud, the
great pioneer of psycho-analysis.”
For some time complete harmony prevailed between Zurich and
Vienna. But by 1914, w^hen Jung repubhshed his Content of the
Psychoses, from which Dr Baynes makes several interesting quota-
tions, a fundamental divergence between the two systems had been
revealed. In contrasting the “ reductive analysis ” of Freud with
what he claims to be his own constructive methods, Jung says :
“ The patient’s unmistakable striving to express something by
^Reported in S.P.R. Journal for May 1937.
202 Reviews [part
means of his delusion, Freud conceives retrospectively, as the satis-
taction of his infantile wishes by means of fantasy. The constructive
standpoint is different. Here the delusional system is neither
mtantde, nor, upon the whole, eo ipso pathological, but subjective
and hence it is justified within the scope of the subjective.”
A significant feature of the Jung school is the emphasis laid on the
collective unconscious”, which indeed seems to have been a
jirmcipal cause of the split with Freud. The view is that the psychic
constitution of man varies as little owing to differences in social
environment as his body does owing to differences of climate, and
that there are “ primordial images” which have so established
themselves m the psyche as to make it impossible to explain any
mdividual case solely m terms of the patient's personal history.
The primordial image “ is the figurative expression in dream or
lantasy ol the living continuity of instinctual experience. It is
also conceived as the source or container of that supra-personal
afflux of energy, winch, when released, either carries the individual
towards his goal, or smashes him pitilessly on the rocks ”. Dr
Baynes makes great use of “ primordial images ” in analysing his
])atients fantasies, perhaps on occasion riding them too hard.
The chapters winch follow set out in detail the cases of two schizo-
phrenic patients, m whose treatment Dr Baynes relied largely on
the ana ysis of drawings embodying their fantasies, a few of their
f reams^ being also analysed. There are reproductions of a number of
these drawings, both in black and white and colours, which add
greatly to the interest of the book.
Jung and his school, as is well known, lay great emphasis on
diffeientiation of psychological types, e.g. introvert and extravert
I rom a jiaper recently read by Jung to the Psychiatric Section of
. le Ivoyal Society of Medicine, Dr Baynes quotes a passage in which
schizophrenia is distinguished from hysteria and other neuroses •
l ie fundamental difference which distinguishes hysteria and
ae other neuroses from schizophrenia consists in the maintenance of
the potential unity of the personality in the former group. The
general ]ucture of an association-test of a schizophrenic may be very
similar to the test of a neurotic, but a close examination reveals the
fact that m a schizophrenic patient the connection lietween the ego
and certain complexes is more or less completely lost.”
Ihere are two causative factors of schizophrenia, which seem to be
niainly uKlependent, the weakening of conscious control, and the
activation of the unconscious with its atavistic content. Amoim the
major consequences Jung mentions “a decrease in the resp'ons-
ibihty and adequate reaction of the ego : realisation is interfered
Reviews 203
162]
with thereby causing insufficient and inadequate emotional re-
actions
Both these symi^toms figure, in varying degrees, in the two cases
analysed by Dr Baynes. To all outward appearance there seemed
little ^vrong with either patient. In each case the trouble started
with shock in the patient’s early years : in the first case, the death
of the patient’s mother followed a few years later by the suicide of
his sister, in the second the scandalous conduct of the patient’s
stepfather. To the question ^\ere the patients cured? Dr
Baynes in the concluding section of his book replies “ Cured of
what?” “The schizoid individual is rarely, if ever, a disabled
neurotic ;
neither does he suffer, as a general rule, from distressing
bodily symptoms. He is a man who has been singled out by fate to
accept solitariness as the fundamental condition of his existence.”
For such persons “ a merely mechanical drainage of the imconscioiis
by reductive analysis ” is insufficient without the sense of renewal of
life which is the essence of religion. Given a sufficiently extended
definition of religion, support could be found for Dr Baynes’s state-
ment that, though the two patients were of very different psycho-
logical types, “ in both cases the flow of unconscious events led
straight to the religious problem.”
The psychical researcher is frequently invited to consider “ auto-
matic ”, “ psychic ” or “ inspirational ” drawings produced when
the control of the conscious mind is in abeyance. He will find it
interesting to compare the numerous illustrations to this book with
examples 'of “ automatic ” drawings already familiar to him. No
claim is or could be made for the drawings in the book that they
transcend the normal powers of draughtsmanship of the patients,
since those drawn by the first patient, a doctor, touch the extreme
limit of crudity, while the second patient was a draughtsman by
profession ;
his designs are mostly, notwithstanding the frequently
sinister character of the symbolism, agreeable to study.
The drawings of both series in the book give an appearance of
purposiveness which is not always present in automatic drawings.
They show none of that apparently meaningless repetition of
patterns, especially squirls and scpiiggles, with which the student of
“ automatic ” drawings is all too familiar. I do not know whether
medical psychologists have attempted by the study of “ automatic
drawmgs of automatists unknown to them to reconstruct the
psychological state, and even the emotional history of the automa-
tists. The results might be interesting, and would, if successful, give
welcome support to the objective validity of their theories.
iMuch of the interest of the book derives from the many pleasant
204 Revieivs [part
excursions wliicli Dr Baynes makes into the domains of religion,
mythology, symbolism in art and literature, primitive culture and I
world-politics. The psychological school to which he belongs does
not regard rehgion as a tedious epiphenomenon on the juicier side
of existence. Mythology, literature and art are often discussed by
psychologists, but one cannot always read their comments, as Dr
Baynes’s may be read, without having one’s teeth set on edge.
With great ingenuity he develops the view that many popular
stories {e.g. the Book of Tobit, Parsifal, Dracula) whatever their
authors’ conscious intentions, do in fact symlmlise the schizophrenic
state and its treatment. W' hat are usually considered the pseudo-
sciences of alchemy and astrology were, in his view, largely con-
cerned with the unconscious mind, so that when they were sup-
jilanted by orthodox chemistry and astronomy, psychology suffered
a temporary set-back.
Dr Baynes follows Jung in attaching great value to what he calls
the “ concept of cosmic duality of Chinese culture, in which the
dark, earthy feminme principle of Yin is opposed by the light,
spiritual, masculine principle of Yang ”. (This conjunction of
epithets is not the reviewer’s.) The temjiorary predominance of
either principle stimulates the other, till it in turn predominates,
and a reverse j)rocess sets in. The two jirinciples are roughly equi-
valent to reason and instinct, the latter having, according to Jung,
a significance going beyond sexuality and self-preservation. To the
disharmony between these two principles, in individuals and in
nations. Dr Baynes would assign most of the evils of the modern,
and particularly the western world.
Parallels to the Yin-Yang concept can, as Dr Baynes indicates,
readily be found in Blake, notably m The Marnage of Heaven and
Hell, where he asserts that " without contraries is no jirogression ”,
and instances what the religious call Good and Evil. Good is the
passive that obeys Reason ; Evil is the active sjiringing from
Energy . Dr Baynes, jnishing a jirophetic antinomianism to a
point which might have alarmed Blake, says “ A stalile and reliable
social order will be found eventually to rest on two recijirocal prin-
ciples. The first is collective authority and discipline in all matters
wherein conformity is indisjiensalile, the second individual freedom
of judgment in all matters which concern the life and health of the
soul . It is not clear what he means by " reciprocal ”, but unless
it is intended that the first princijile slioidd circumscribe the opera-
tion of the second, the suggestion ajipears to be that, provided we all
observe the traffic-light rules, we can each do what is right in his
own eyes without harm to the community.
Reviews 205
162]
It niay seem out of place in a publication devoted to psychical
research to labour a point of social ethics, but this and many other
passages in Dr Baynes’s book seem based on a view of the uncon-
scious which has a very close bearing on psychical research. It
appears to be implied that ethical differences, so far as they are not
mere matters of traffic-light convention, are due to different degrees
of harmony and dis-harmony between the conscious and uncon-
scious minds of individuals. This is akin to the proposition, some-
times asserted by medical psychologists, that any form or degree of
dissociation is pathological. That may possibly be true, liut it is
not a conclusion which would naturally be drawn from a study
confined to those types of dissociation which come within the specific
purview of psychical research.
The parallehsm between secondary personahties of the Sally
Beauchamp type and some mediumistic controls is well recognised,
and where the secondary personality or control is of a tricky, un-
trustworthy type, the view attributed above to medical psychology
would, so far as a layman can judge, fit the facts. Nor does this view
appear to be contradicted by the fact that the primary personality
{e.g. Miss Beauchamp herself) or the medium {e.g. Stainton Moses)
is extremely conscientious, though both hliss Beauchamp and Stain-
ton Moses were in some degree misfits, who found it difficult to
develop normal reactions to life. The sort of case which the psychical
researcher finds it difficult to fit into the picture is that of the med-
ium, whose reactions to life are perfectly normal and show no sign
of that apathy or desire to evade responsibility which Dr Baynes’s
two patients illustrate, with a trance personality on the same ethical
level. The dissociation, as judged by such tests as amnesia, may be
profound, much profounder than with Dr Baynes s patients, but the
split is not on ethical or emotional lines at all, being apparently confined
to a difference in mental content and, sometimes, in intellectual power.
It strikes the lay ])sychical researcher as curious that medical
psychologists (Dr T. W. Mitchell is of course a notable exception)
are so little interested in the psychology of mediums and automatists.
It might have been supposed that they would have gladly seized
the opportimity of widening their experience by the study of
material of a kind different from that which comes to them in their
ordinary practice. Students of psychical research, who fully realise
the complexity of the prol)lems they encounter, would welcome any
assistance they could obtain from medical psychologists, especially
from any giving proofs of such an open mind and so wide-spread
interests as Dr Baynes has shown.
W. H. S.
206 Mr Oliver Gatty [part
OBITUARY
Mr Oliver Gatty
At tlio moment of going to jjress we learn with the deepest regret of
the death at Cambridge of Mr Oliver Gatty as the result of an
accident occurring while he was conducting an experiment connected
with war work for the Government.
Mr Gatty had a brilliant career at Oxford, where he studied
physics and became a Fellow of Balliol. But he soon developed an
interest in biology, in which subject he did research work first at the
Rothamsted Experimental Station, and later at Cambridge, where
he had been living for several years.
His work in Cambridge, on the electrical conductivity of the frog’s
skin, gave full scope to his patience and ingenuity in experimental
technique. Moreover the numerous observations required elaborate
statistical treatment ;
and the knowledge of statistical theory and
practice which he acquired for his biological work enabled him to
give valuable help to the S.P.R.
He joined the Society in 1933 and became a Member of Council in
1934. He did much important research work for the Society, and
also made generous gifts both of money and apparatus. He took
part in the investigation of Rudi Schneider, on which he read the
Society a paper, and of Mrs Leonard, and was a Member of the
Cambridge Committee ’
,
which has for some time past been
investigating paranormal cognition. He was the joint author, with
Dr Irwin, of a note (pp. 147-150) aj)pended to Mr Carington’s paper
in this Bart of Proceedwgs.
At the time of his deatli he was also engaged on a study of dowsing
from the standjioint of the {ihysicist, and was intending to give the
Society a paper on this subject in the autumn.
Professor Broad writes :
It was a terril)le blow to the Cambridge Committee, who have
been collaborating with Mr Whately Carington for a long time past
in his work on extra-sensory perception, to hear of Mr Gatty’s tragic
(leath. He had been a valued member of our Committee from the
first : he had attended our last meeting on May 27th ;
and we had
aiianged to meet again on June 18th. His death, which was in every
102]
Obituary ‘
way comparable to that of a gallant member of the armed forces in
the field of battle, is a severe loss, not only to science and to our
Society, but also to those who knew him personally.
No one could know Gatty without liking him. To his great
abilities he added a boyish vigour, enthusiasm, and readiness to
explore even fantastic possibilities, for the fun of the game. He was
always ready to spend time, labour, thought, and money on any
problem of psychical research which seemed_ susceptible of experi-
mental or statistical treatment. He was patient, kindly, and help-
ful in collaborating with others, and his cheerfulness and enthusiasm
were infectious.
His colleagues on the Cambridge Committee can understand some-
thing of what his loss must mean to his wife and family and his
intimate friends, and their sympathies go out to them m their
sorrow—a sorrow which is mitigated by pride in his gallant death m
the service of his country
.
Mr Whately Carington sends the following note :
Oliver Gatty’s tragic and untimely death is a serious loss to
Psychical Research and a great personal blow. The first aspect
needs no emphasis by me : as for the second, I shall miss him greatly
both as a colleague and a friend. Few men were possessed of so great
a measure of personal charm, and fewer still were so capable of con-
solidating immediate liking into lasting affection and regard. On
the technical side I owe him much for his enthusiastic and helpful
membership of the “ Cambridge Committee ”. His many interests
and activities often prevented him from maintaining as close a con-
tact with the work as we would both have wished ;
but his encourage-
ment was invaluable and he had a most unusual facility for grasping
implications and for making suggestions of the most ingenious and
stimulating character.
, i
•
Many kinds of technical ability can be found elsewhere, but his
especial gifts I feel to lie irreplaceable.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 163
OBITUARY
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S.
Since the issue of the last Part of Proceedings the Society has lost
two scientists of the highest distinction, both of whom joined the
Society in its very early days and were for many years actively
associated with its work.
J. J. Thom§on became a member in 1883, and served on the
Council from 1887 to 1921 ; on his retirement in that year he was
elected a Vice-President. In 1918 he became Master of Trinity
College, Cambridge, which from the days of our founders, Sidgwick,
Myers and Gurney, has contributed to the Society many of its leading
members, and during his Mastership the connection was strengthened
by the institution of the Perrott Studentship.
It is, however, no disparagement of the great services which
J. J. Thomson rendered our Society if Lodge’s work in Psychical
Research is treated at greater length. As he has himself recorded in
Past Years, Lodge’s first acquaintance with Psychical Research was
through Edmund Gurney, who was then collecting and tabulating
the material for Phantasms of the Living. The book struck him at
the time “ as a meaningless collection of ghost stories ”, but he was
impressed with the energy and seriousness that Gurney devoted
to his task. Through Gurney he met Myers, and in January 1884,
within two years of the foundation of the Society, he became a
member.
His first active work is recorded the same year in Vol. II of
Proceedings, in which there appears (page 189) a paper by him
giving an account of some “ Experiments in Thought Transference ”.
N
210 Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir J. J. Thomson [part
This paper is a sliort one ;
the experiments took the form mainly of
asking percipients to reproduce simple diagrams which had been
excluded from their normal means of perception. Although these
particular experiments were not amenable to statistical analysis,
Lodge from the first recognised the important part that statistics
could play in experimental psychical research, for in the same
volume of Proceedings is to l)e found a note in the form of a letter
to Gurney, in which he refers to “ the valuable suggestion of M.
Richet that feeble thought-reading powers or slight mental rever-
l)erations may be possibly detected in some persons by applying i
the laws of probability to a great number of guesses made by them ;
on a limited series of objects ” ;
he follows this up by suggesting i
various mathematical formulae which could conveniently be used.
Close association over a long period of years between Richet and
Lodge ripened into the warmest friendship. International co-
operation is no less necessary in psychical research than in other
matters, and no less difficadt to achieve, and the friendship between
these two distinguished scientists resulted in much useful collabora-
tion in our suljject. It is of interest to note that while the French
physiologist and the English physicist took much the same view of
Psychical Research problems regarded in detail, they came to
fundamentally different conclusions as to their ultimate significance,
particularly as bearing on the question of human survival. The
measure of their agreement and their difference appears from two
short papers, “ For and Against Survival,” which they contributed
to Vol. XXXIV of Proceedings.
It was perhaps natural that, while each of them was aware of the
developments taking place in the branch of science in which the
other had specialised, and indeed in scientific thought as a whole,
he should have most clearly in his mind the developments taking
place within his own province, so that to the physiologist the most
significant development would appear to be the increased knowledge
of the interconnection of mental and bodily processes, and the
physicist would l>e inclined to stress the fact that matter seemed
to be rapidly shedding many of the concejhions traditionally asso-
ciated with it, physics, as Lodge put it, taking on the character of
metaphysics.
It was through Richet that Lodge obtained his principal first-hand
experience of physical phenomena. In 1894 as Richet’s guest he
attended sittings with Eusa])ia Paladino in the South of France,
and formed a favourable opinion of her phenomena, all of which,
however, he agreed could have been simulated, with or without
previous preparation, if the control of her head and limbs was
163 ]
Obituary 211
defective : in his view, however, the control w^as fully adequate.
Hodgson made various criticisms of the control which were to
some extent justified by a later series of sittings held at Cambridge
in 1895, but Lodge, while admitting the fraud at Cambridge, con-
sidered that it could not account for the phenomena seen by him
the year before, taken as a whole. In this opinion he was con-
firmed by the results of other sittings with the same medium, at
which he was not himself present, notably by an incident witnessed
by his son, Mr Brodie Lodge, at Richet’s house in 1898, when a
heavy table is reported to have been levitated in broad daylight
out of doors.
An important landmark in Lodge’s career was reached in the
winter of 1889, when Mrs Piper, of whom favourable reports had
been received by the Society from America, visited England. She
was met on arrival by Lodge, who between November 1889
and January 1890 had 23 sittings with her, one at Cambridge,
and the remainder at Liverpool. It is to be observed as an early
indication of Lodge’s ability as a sitter, subsequently shown on many
other occasions, that the Liverpool sittings during this visit were
much more successful than those held with other sitters either at
Cambridge or in London. Lodge contributed to Proceedings
(Vol. VI) a very full account of these sittings, which he prefaced
with a formal report in which he said
—“ By introducing anonymous
strangers and by catechising her myself in various ways, I have
satisfied myself that much of the information she possesses in the
trance state is not acquired by Ordinary commonplace methods,
but that she has some unusual means of acquiring information.
The facts which she discloses are usually within the knowledge of
some person present, though they are often entirely out of his
conscious thought at the time. Occasionally facts have been
narrated which have only been verified afterwards, and which are in
good faith asserted never to have been known. . . . Concerning
the particular means by which she acquires the different kinds of
information, there is no sufficient evidence to make it safe to draw
any conclusion. I can only say with certainty that it is by none of
the ordinary methods known to Physical Science.”
Mrs Piper’s powers were much discussed, inside and outside the
Society, during the succeeding years, more especially since, on her
return to the United States, she was for a long time under the
close investigation of Hodgson, whose well-known scepticism as
to many of the phenomena of psychical research did not prevent
him publishing, in 1898, a very long report on her {Proceedings,
Yol. XIII), in which he gave emphatic support to the “ Spirit
212 Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir ./. J. Thomson [part
Hypothesis This paper gave rise to much debate, in which
Lodge took a ])rominent part.
In 1900, the Society suffered a severe blow by the death of Henry
Sidgwick, one of its founders, and its first President, and this was
followed within a few months, in January 1901, by the death of
another of the founders, Frederic Myers. Those who were closely
associated with the Society’s work at the time of this double
disaster have declared that it was mainly the action of Oliver
Lodge in accepting the Presidency that saved the Society from
the apparently imminent danger of collapse. The acceptance of the
Presidency at that time was a notable act of self-sacrifice as he had
only the previous year become Principal of the newly founded
University of Birmingham. He was re-elected President for the
years 1902 and 1903, and the fact that the reins of the Society were
during these years in the hands of a man of outstanding distinction
in science, combined with Lodge’s own personal gifts of tact and
geniality, prevailed to set the Society once again on a firm basis,
and indeed to strengthen it by the attraction of a large number of
members who became actively interested in its work.
In his Presidential Address, during his second year of office in
1902, he said, “ If any one cares to hear what sort of conviction has
been borne in upon my own mind as a scientific man, in some 20
years familiarity with those questions which concern us, I am very
willing to reply as frankly as I can. First, then, I am for all present
purposes convinced of the persistence of human existence beyond
bodily death ;
and though I am unable to justify that belief in a
full and complete manner, yet it is a belief which has been produced
by scientific evidence, that is, it is based upon facts and experience,
though I might find it impossible to explain categorically how the
facts have produced that conviction.”
In view of certain misconceptions which are still current it may not
be superfluous to emphasise that as early as 1902, when he was not
under any particular emotional stress, he declared himself without
qualification a l^eliever in survival, the belief being based not upon
emotion but on “ facts and experiences That Lodge only adopted
this Ijelief after the death of his son Raymond in the last war is, of
course, an absurdity which has never found acceptance among
our members.
It was, however, not only the evidence obtained throiigh Mrs
Piper which led Lodge to this position. He had also had successful
sittings with that very remarkable medium, Mrs Thompson, of
whose phenomena, which particularly impressed Myers, regrettably
few records survive. He did not make up his mind as to the signi-
163]
Obituary 213
ficance of the Piper and Thompson evidence without giving full
weight to the complications caused by telepathy, our ignorance of
the method by which it works, and our uncertainty as to the limits
that can reasonably be attributed to its operation.
In the “ Cross-Correspondences ” which developed shortly after
Myers’s death, Lodge, like many other close students of the problem,
thought he saw a prospect of excluding the operation of telepathy
between living minds, and from the very beginning he devoted
himself to a study of the complicated evidence resulting.
Mention has already been made of the heavy bereavement he
sustained in the last war, through the death in action of his son
Eaymond. With great courage he placed before the public the
evidence he received, before and after his son’s death, which seemed
to him both to foretell that event—the “ Faunus ” incident is one
of the most striking single incidents in the whole of Psychical
Research—and also to prove that his son’s personality had survived
death, and coidd and did communicate with those he loved on earth.
The frankness of this book provoked in some quarters, as was to be
expected, hostility and even ridicule, which Lodge unflinchingly
met and answered in a later edition.
It was also during the last war that Lodge, whose remarkable
success with mediums was due less to luck than to his own personal
gifts of sympathy, made contact with Mrs Leonard. Not the least of
his many services to us was to bring the Society into touch with her.
When the Myers Memorial Lectureship was founded the appoint-
ment of Oliver Lodge to deliver the Inaugural Lecture in 1929 was,
in view of his long and intimate friendship with Myers, and his own
outstanding position in Psychical Research, inevitable, as was his
election as Joint President of Honour with Mrs Sidgwick on the
occasion of the Society’s Jubilee in 1932.
In the many books with which he appealed to a wide audience.
Lodge set out with great lucidity his own philosophy, which found
nothing incompatible between the conceptions of science, as they
had developed during his own lifetime, and those of Psychical
Research. On Lodge’s contribution to science, and its connection
with Psychical Research, Lord Rayleigh writes as follows :
Sir Oliver Lodge has latterly been known to the general public
even more as a protagonist of Psychical Research than as a pioneer
in physical science. Few scientific workers can expect that what
they do in their prime will long remain in full view. If it is in the
main stream of progress it is almost certain to be overgrown by
the work of others who have improved upon it and completed it ;
and if not in the main stream of progress, it is liable to be pushed
214 Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir J. J. Thomson [part
out of sight by developments which are more in fashion. It may
be suspected that Lodge is no exception to this rule : and it is fitting
that his scientific wmrk should be recalled to memory. Only a few
salient points can receive notice, and they will be treated in a
general way. Those who want details will not be at a loss to find
them elsewhere.
Coming then to Lodge’s early electrical researches, he began with
the investigation of lightning conductors, and this led him to set
up stationary waves of potential difference along parallel oppositely
electrified wires, and he identified the position of nodes and loops.
Waves of electric force necessarily existed in the intervening space.
The velocity of these waves was determined from the measured
wavelength and calculated frequency, and was shown to agree
approximately with the velocity of light. All this was concurrent
with the work of Hertz on free electric waves, and goes far to estab-
lish the same general conclusion. Hertz says, in the preface to his
book on electric waves :
“In the same year that I carried out the above research Professor
Oliver Lodge carried out a series of experiments on the discharge
of small condensers which led him on to the observation of oscillation
and waves in wires. . . . There can scarcely be any doubt that if I
had not anticipated him he would also have succeeded in observing
waves in air, and thus proving the propagation in time of electric
forces.”
The detector of electric waves used in the early wireless telegraphy
was Lodge’s “ coherer ”. As first used by him this took the form
of two slightly oxidised brass knobs, in contact. When electric
waves fell on this arrangement it was found that electrical contact
was established between the knobs, which could readily be detected
by means of a battery and galvanometer. The tube of iron filings
which was used later was due to Branly, and Lodge, with charac-
teristic fairmindedness, always emphasised the importance of
Branly’s contribution.
Everyone is familiar nowadays with “ tuning in ” to the wireless.
This really has no necessary connection with transmission over long
distances. It should be emphasised that Lodge was the first person
to put electrical circuits into and out of resonance. He did this in
the experiment called the “ Syntonic Leyden jars ”. Hertz a little
earlier had spoken about resonance, but there was no real resonance
in his experiments, because his sender did not give out persistent
oscillations, and only so can resonance come into evidence. You
can have resonance to the note of a tuning fork but not to the crack
of a whip.
163 ]
Obituary 215
Lodge later applied electrical resonance to the first system of
tuned wireless telegraphy, of which he was the pioneer. This was
a spark system, which only gave limited trains of oscillations, like
a tuning fork intermittently struck. The modern system uses a
continuous train of oscillations, like an organ pipe continuously
blown, which of course lends itself to more accurate tuning : but
Lodge made the essential step.
It is not always realised that the famous principle of relativity
has its origin not in a metaphysical conception about the nature
of space and time, but in an induction from experience. Nineteenth
century physics had built up the conception that space was tilled
with a medium of a r^uasi-material nature (called ether) through
which light was propagated. The earlier, and simpler, view was
that this medium carried transverse waves of elastic displacement,
like an elastic solid. But when the idea of waves of elastic displace-
ment was superseded by Maxwell’s conception of waves of electrical
disjrlacement, the idea of an ether was not abandoned. If there is
a medium, it looked as if we ought to detect our motion through it,
as for example when the earth on which we are situated moves round
the sun at a speed of some 19 miles a second. There should Ire, in
effect, a wind of ether of 19 miles a second blowing through our
laboratories, and it ought to be possible to bring it into evidence
by a variety of methods. But the result is always negative. The
wind will not come into evidence. Some people thought that this
proved that the ether was carried along locally by the earth, as
water is to some extent dragged along Iry a ship. This view leads
us into diliicidties in other directions ;
for example, it is not easily
reconciled with known facts about the aberration of the stars. But
Lodge’s best contribution to this question was in the direction not
of speculation. He determined to try the difficult experiment of
determining whether in fact the ether was carried along l)y a moving
body, using not the earth, but a pair of rapidly rotating steel discs.
The question was whether light would travel faster with the discs
than against them, when it was sent round the circuit by successive
reflexions : and the answer which Lodge arrived at was that it did
not. If the ether moved, it was with less than of velocity
of the disc. This experiment then suggested strongly that the ether
was not carried along with the earth : and in fact it was one of the
contributory causes which led most physicists to abandon the
attempt to interpret the .optical phenomena of moving bodies in
terms of ether, and to range themselves with the view of Einstein,
who recommended the abandonment of this method of apjjroach
as unfruitful, and substituted the approach by the principle of
216 Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir J. J. Thomson [part
relativity which asserts ah initio that any experiment designed to
detect uniform motion relative to the ether is doomed to failure.
Lodge himself, however, oddly enough, could never whole-
|
heartedly accept this standpoint. He always wished to retain the i
earlier and more matter-of-fact point of view, insisting on an ether i
with definite quasi-material properties. It was in fact curious to j
contrast his rather materialistic point of view about ether with his
anti-materialistic point of view about other things, and notably '
about the subjects with which our Society is mainly concerned.
Lodge attempted to relieve the difficulties attending the concep-
tion of an afterlife without a material basis by pointing out that the i
processes of the physical world are largely occurring in what may be
called at pleasure ether or simply space. For example, take the i
transmission of light from the sun to a terrestrial observer who
may be watching solar phenomena. The sun is material, and sends
out light. The observer’s eye is material, and receives it. But the
transmission takes 8 minutes, and is going on in the intervening
space. Nothing can be found out about what is going on without
introducing a material receiver, such as the eye, a photographic
plate, or a thermopile. His point was that the material receiver
gets its inspiration from what goes on in the space outside, and he
suggested that the material human organism plays a similar part
of receiving and making apparent what is going on in a non-material,
i.e. spiritual world. No doubt the attempt to analyse what is going ;
on in the empty space of physics has proved very difficult, and
opinion about it has shifted. But, as it seems to the present writer,
Lodge did not attempt to define in detail the processes going on in
the spiritual world either ;
and the rather vague analogy which he
suggested will stand equally well whether we attempt to define
the properties of the intervening space in terms of an “ ether ” or
whether, as is now more customary, we avoid the word. He did
not in fact appeal to any supposed property of the ether, such as,
for example, the very high density which he at one time attributed
to it, in his suggested analogy.
The above seems to the writer to express the gist of Lodge’s
views. But they have been quite freely restated above, and it is
possible that he would not have accepted the restatement which is
here offered.
With the advent of broadcasting. Lodge found himself in touch,
very close touch, with an audience even larger than his books had
reached. The appeal of his thought was reinforced by the charm
of his voice and manner. Few who heard it are likely to forget the
163]
Obituary 217
emotion in his voice when he closed his contribution to a series of
talks which members of the Society had given over the wireless in
1934, with these words : “I am grateful to the authorities of the
B.B.C. for allowing me to express my mature convictions un-
hindered ill what may possibly prove my last talk to you. If it
should happen that my work down here is done, or nearly done, let
me take an affectionate farewell.”
But for the Society the day of farewell was still far distant.
Until the date of his death he remained a member of the Council of
the S.P.R. and also of the Committee of Reference and Publication,
and except when prevented by ill-health was very active in both
capacities.
Lord Balfour writes :
To know Lodge was to love him : to know him better was to love
him better. I have some right to speak, for my acquaintance with
him, begun more than forty years ago, ripened into close friendship
from the time when we became associated together in the investiga-
tion of Mrs Willett’s mediumship.
In what did this quality of loveableness consist? Perhaps little
or nothing would be gained by trying to resolve it into its elements.
Spiritually, and physically, everything about him was beautiful.
But in the forefront I should be inclined to place a certain grand
simphcity, adorable in a man so richly endowed by nature, and so
successful in achievement.
Lodge’s share in the practical research work of the Society was
mainly, if not wholly concerned with his sittings with mediums,
notably with Mrs Piper, and Mrs Leonard. The simplicity, of
which I have spoken, was undoubtedly an asset to him as a sitter,
by creating that atmosphere of sympathy which seems to be essential
if the best results are to be obtained. It would not have been
surprising if at the same time it had tended to detract from the
cautious attitude which the investigation of mediumship calls for.
But I do not think this happened in Lodge’s case. He was fully
alive to the pitfalls which beset the inquiry, and was a most con-
scientious recorder. If certain passages in his records were calculated
to raise a smile, or even to excite ridicule, this is not to be ascribed
to guileless naivete but to a scrupulous integrity which forbade any
tampering with the records. What I most admire in him was his
intellectual honesty, and his courage in standing fast by what he
believed to be truth. Lodge was the one eminent man of science
who wholeheartedly accepted the evidence for survival and the
possibihty of commrmication with the departed. He devoted his
remarkable gift of exposition to missionary work on behalf of his
218 Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir J. J. Thomson [part
convictions, and his scientific reputation probably suffered in
consequence. If so, that is all the more reason why members.of the
S.P.R. should honour his memory. If the convictions which he so
valiantly championed continue to make headway, as I believe they
will, great will be his vindication. In any case, his name must
always rank in the annals of the Society with those of Myers,
Gurney, Mrs Verrall and the Sidgwicks.
Miss Nea Walker, who for several years had special opportunities
of seeing Oliver Lodge at work and in his home life, has sent us the
following memories ;
I have been asked to write a few personal reminiscences of Sir
Oliver Lodge. In trying to do this I have found it impossible to
give the kind of picture of him which I should like to have, were I
the reader, without appearing in it myself. And I therefore ask
forgiveness in advance for the inevitable amount of this intrusion.
Sir Oliver chose me during the summer of 1915 to replace another
woman secretary who was getting married, and my work was to
begin in October of that year. I well remember the, to me, terrify-
ing interview before my appointment, when he asked me whether
I “ spoke French, German, Italian, and Spanish? ” I could only
claim the first two. Then,
—“ What about Greek and Latin?
”
The Greek alphabet, and a very shaky acquaintance with Latin,
were all I could muster. “ Humph,—well, how about Physics and
Mathematics? ” These were nil. “ What do you know about
psychical research? ” I could not possibly say that I had only
heard of “ Sir Oliver Lodge and his Spooks ”. So there was an
embarrassed pause. Then,
—“ Ever heard of Myers, Gurney,
Sidgwick? ” I had not. “ Dear, dear, they are household words
here. Do you object to psychical research? ” I could not say,
—
I knew nothing about it. (Sigh) :
—“ Well, let’s go and have tea ”,
and I was led from the summerhouse at Mariemont, through the
lofty book-lined study, to the dining-room with its long table seating
ten or fifteen people comfortably, and fairly regularly. This tea-
time was to be, for the next five years, a very familiar and pleasant
scene : Lady Lodge’s chair was at the end of the table. Sir Oliver
sat on her left ;
any guests near them ;
then as many of “ The
Family ” as might be in ;
and near the doors leading to the study
and the hall respectively, always room for Mr Briscoe (Sir Oliver’s
Lbiiversity Secretary) and me. Mr Briscoe did not always achieve
tea ;
but I found myself very ready when the five o’clock gong went.
And, though one sat, as it were, “ below the salt ”, that being con-
veniently near the door by which one had entered. Sir Oliver had a
163]
Obituary 219
charming way, if a distinguished guest were present, of remarking,
—
“ That is IVIiss Nea Walker, she knows your wife ”,—or some
equivalent description, mostly based upon a very flimsy link. Often
one would much rather not have been noticed in one’s distant corner,
but the kindly wsh to put at ease was none the less appreciated.
And, frequently, the interesting conversation tempted me to linger
hstening when I ought to have been back at work in my room.
Thought for employees did not end with tea, for we all had a glass
of hot milk at eleven ;
and Sir Oliver would often, during the
1914-18 war, ask me if I were “ sure I was getting enough to eat at
home ?
” He knew that I lived on my salary, and I wonder now if
he was remembering his own early hardships.
Very occasionally, if tired or worried, he might answer Irritably
at tea-time about some trifle, and immediately there would be an
expression in his eyes so like that of a St. Bernard who has been rude
to some smaller friend. I cannot think that he ever let the sun go
down upon his wrath in things large or small. His attitude towards
anything frail was always gentle, and it was an unforgettable picture
to see him carry a baby grandchild firmly cradled in the crook of one
arm—the baby so obviously feeling comfortable and safe that it did
not cry.
Mr Briscoe worked in Sir Oliver’s Study, but I had a room near
the front door to which Sir Oliver came when he had time for what
was the lighter part of his work. I often did not see him of a
morning ;
he would come in after tea and dictate for a couple of
hours ;
or, I should find a note on my table after lunch saying,
—
“ N. W., come to the summerhouse ”. These entries and summonses
used, for the first six months or so, to cause me to shake at the knees
each time : it must have been due to his great height and big voice,
for I later found that there was nothing to fear, only much to
love.
I sometimes, in early days, incurred his temporary wrath by not
understanding that two minutes after he had left me, he had
switched his mind on to another subject, and that, if approached with
a supplementary inquiry about the previous one, he did not know
what I was talking about and, by the time I had begun to remind
him, was quite put off his track in the new compartment of his brain
to which he had switched over. Exit a crestfallen secretary leaving
an irritated chief. This ability to work in different and, as it were,
watertight compartments of the brain must have contributed to his
ability to undertake such an enormous amount of varied work.
I had been nervously expecting to take up my work with Sir Oliver
on the first of October 1915, but was alarmed by a telegram asking
220 Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir ,J . J . Thomso7i [part
me to come on the afternoon of September 29th to Mariemont. On
arrival I was asked to “ go to the summerhouse with my shorthand
notebook ”, and there, without further preliminaries. Sir Oliver
began to dictate. It proved to be a report of his first anonymous
sitting with Mrs Leonard which had taken jfiace on the 27th. I was
bewildered. I had never done any work like it, and went home
wondering whether I had been dreaming or was “ going mad
The next day I tried to transcribe my notes, and left the effort on
Sir Oliver’s desk, to find it the following morning on mine, scored
and marked and corrected in every direction. I thought,
—“ That’s
the end of this post for me! ” and waited for the wrath to come.
But, to my amazement, when I shakily apologised for having
evidently made a hojieless muddle of it. Sir Oliver said,
—“ Oh, but
I made the muddle of your typing—it’s only that I don’t yet know
myself how I waiit it set out.” So we settled down to work out the
method, and the rest of that winter went mostly in preparing the
book “ Raymond ”. It was at this time that I learnt always to give
])rominence to the weaknesses of evidence laboriously gathered, and
to record at once every tiny item whether it seemed relevant or not.
Also to regard oneself as suspect, and, whenever feasible, to get
outside testimony to the truth of one’s statements.
Then came the ])ul)lication of “ Raymond ”, and the terrific
correspondence which resulted, from opponents, from sympathisers,
and from people bereaved l)y the war. All this correspondence fell
to my lot, exce])t what Sir Oliver sent on to Mr J. Arthur Hill, after
always answering the first letter himself. And Imth J. A. H. and I
had as much work as we could manage : the files in my room grew
and grew.
Sir Oliver was working hard in all kinds of other directions, at
the University, and on research connected with the war ;
often in
summer when 1 arrived at nine o’clock, he would say proudly that
he had been “ rloing mathematics ” in the summerhouse since seven.
And I know that his day often ended with reading aloud to The
Family for a coujile of hours after an eight o’clock dinner. But he
always made time to answer, almost by return, the bereaved people
who wrote to him. Sometimes he sat in my room, sometimes, even
in winter, in the summerhouse, clad in a large fawnish check Inver-
ness coat with a hood, though he always wore a cap, or a panama
hat. Frequently he nursed one or other of the Mariemont Persian
cats. I remember his saying one day that he wondered whether the
prevailing method of destroying domestic animals by using chloro-
form was as kind as we thought, their noses being so sensitive
—
“ Perhaps one day we shall find it isn’t.” I think that the best
163]
Obituary 221
modern veterinary practice has justified his suspicion ;
they cer-
tainly seem to like to inject morphia first.
At these times he allowed himself to smoke—always a cigarette
in a long holder. One could never forget his hands with their
long sensitive fingers—rather like the Dlirer etching, only more
powerful.
The correspondence was so large that he occasionally became
confused among the correspondents, and started his letter on the
wrong track for some one. I had learnt not to interrupt, but he
would often stop and say,
—“ Am I telling the truth ?
” which
allowed me to disentangle the particular individual for him out of a
composite picture he had evolved for himself. But this was rare,
and only the slightest reminder was necessary.
When he had been ujr to London for S.P.R. Meetings he would
immediately after his return dictate a full account to J. A. H., or
to Lady Lodge, if she were away from home. And sometimes he
would stop and tell me tales of the old days at the S.P.R., elucidating
a reference which he knew I should not understand. Thus, quite
quickly, Myers, Gurney, Sidgwick, Richet, Mrs Verrall, Eusapia,
Mrs Piper, and many other names became household words to me
also ;
and I now feel astonishment when I realise that, as to me in
1915, they still have no meaning for the many. At these times I
learnt how deep was his affection for Mr Myers ;
how much he felt
Mrs Verrall’s death and admired her courage ;
and how he regarded,
almost with awe. Professor Sidgwick’s “ shining integrity ”.
Sir Oliver’s desk left much to be desired from a secretarial point
of view, as also from the point of view of a faithful parlourmaid
whose duty it was to dust the Study. There Sir Oliver worked
“ in geological strata ”, and it was a miracle how he found what he
required. But nothing important went astray.
His handwriting was well described by Lady Grey as “ the spider
out of the ink ”. He wrote extremely fast, being able to keejr pace
when taking longhand notes at sittings with mediums, recording at
the same time anything he might say himself—a feat, as any short-
hand-writer who has worked with mediums will know. It looked
illegible but was not really so when one was accustomed to it ;
and
I often found that, when he himself was puzzled by a word, I could
read it by turning it upside down.
He always walked to and from the University, and, in addition,
used to try and get some exercise without going far afield ;
this
most conveniently took the form of sawing wood, and Lady Lodge
was, I fancy, often anxious lest some decorative tree in the Marie-
mont garden fell a victim to his need.
222 Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir J. J. Thomson [part
In 1919 came Sir Oliver’s retirement from the Principalship of
Birmingham University, and his Lecture Tour in the United States
where Lady Lodge accompanied him. There they made many
friends, one of whom at least was closely in touch with him to the
end. I had commitments in Birmingham then, and could not leave
to settle with him in Wiltshire when he decided to go there. So,
rather than let me go back to what he called “ the status quo ante ”,
by accepting another clerical post in Birmingham, he decided to
carry on his work with me by post. A sudden illness of mine in
1921 led to the “ temporary ” appointment of a resident secretary
at Normanton, Miss Helen Alvey, who was with him when he died
on his wedding day, August 22, 1940. And my work from then on
evolved into dealing with his bereaved correspondents, and, while
trying to help them, carrying out experiments which might be useful
in psychical research. This work he generously financed, though
it helped him no whit. I often wonder whether those whom he
helped had the faintest idea of his generosity to them, for he was
never a rich man. I remember being troubled frequently because
what I was doing was not helping him ;
but his answer invariably
was : “If you are doing psychical research work of any sort, you
are doing my work.” And he always allowed one to express one’s
own point of view, whether it agreed with his or not. He had a
knack of acquiring helpers whom he was loth to drop, fortunately
for them, even after they had ceased to function in the way he had
at first intended.
A last example of kindness occurs to me. On his return from his
American Lecture Tour, and before it was decided that I was to
continue working with him, I found on my desk an envelope inscribed
in his own handwriting ;
“ N. W.
I have been giving a little present to each of my daughters. So
I hope you will include yourself in that category for the present.
Oliver Lodge.”
Inside was a cheque for twenty-five pounds! I still keep that
envelope, and have never had cause to feel that I was outside that
“ category ”, even though I saw much less of him in the subsequent
years.
There are memory pictures of him at Normanton too, where I am
glad to have stayed. But, though I have a vivid picture of a real
home in lovely surroundings, and of evenings spent listening to his
inimitable play-reading, there are others better fitted to describe
that part of his life and work winch still went on. One of those
163]
Obituary 223
closely associated in my mind in the picture of his declining years is
his chauffeur-valet Walker. I have rarely seen anything as beautiful
as the way Sir Oliver depended upon Walker, and the unobtrusive-
ness of any necessary help Walker gave. The friendship, and
mutual respect and affection, were so obvious. One can most
safely judge a man or woman by their treatment of subordinates,
and I think that no one who worked for Sir Oliver Lodge could
fail to love him for that alone. His body is being buried at Wilsford
as I write this small account : I chose the time, thinking it would
perhaps bring back the kind of memories in which his other admirers
might like to share.
22 August 1940.
N. W.
PSYCHOPATHOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF TELEPATHY
By Hans Ehrenwald, M.D. (Prague).
So-called supernormal phenomena—if they are discussed seriously
at all—are a foreign substance in the body scientific. Academic
science even to-day emphatically denies their existence or even their
possibility. Yet the investigations of the last decades—not only in
the line of psychical research but also of clinical psychiatry and
deep-psychology—have gathered a great deal of evidence for the
occasional manifestation of extraordinary phenomena in certain
“ border-line ” cases, in hysterical patients and in persons in
mediumistic trance. To cite exceptional performances during sleep
and dream, in the psycho-analytical situation, in states of split
personality, etc., has become well-nigh a commonplace.
Not long ago, however, the rationalistic trend of psychopathology
was reluctant to acknowledge even the reliability of observations of
such kinds. Henry Maudsley, one of the pioneers of English psy-
chiatry, insisted on ascribing all these reports to defective observa-
tion and fallacious interpretation, or even to delusive self-deception
on the part of the observers. The same objection has been put
forward ever since over and over again—and we must admit, often
with good reason—by numerous authors. The criticism of Millais
Culpin,'^ about twenty years ago, made at least one concession.
He pointed to the role of Janet’s mental dissociation in causing the
alleged supernormal phenomena. This state facilitates, in his view,
an incidental hyper-sensitiveness of the sensory functions. He refers
to the well-known observations of Binet, A. Hurst, etc., on hyper-
aesthesia of hearing and of touch, amounting to 16-50 times the
sharpness of that of the normal individual. Supernormal phenomena,
particularly telepathic performances, are based, on this view,
mainly on uncritical interpretation of hyper-functions of the sense
organs, such as muscle reading, listening to “ unconscious whisper-
ing ”, etc.
Yet these hyper-functions, however striking they may appear,
do not suffice to explain the occurrence of real “ supernormal
”
phenomena, in cases where we can accept their existence as estab-
* Millais Culj^in, Spirihialisjn and the New Psychology. London, 1920.
224
[PAHT 163] Psychopathological Aspects of Telepathy 225
lished. A quasi-physiological working hyjjothesis of this kind seems
to be, nevertheless, an expedient starting point for the approach
attempted here. It seems to be advisable to make a particular
instance of this group of hyper-functions the object of our closer
consideration. Experimental psychology has repeatedly dealt with
the extraordinary faculty of an accurate time-appreciation during
sleep and hypnosis. Such observations have been reported by Bern-
heim, Forel and more recently by Milne Bramwell, T. W. Mitchell,
L. D. Boring, E. N. Brush and others. The present writer’s ex-
periments in the Prague Psychiatric Clinics from the year 1923i
may also be mentioned here. These attempted to verify the ob-
servations in question by means of experiments of unconscious
time-estimation during hypnosis. In these tests the subjects were
found to be able to perceive times vaguely from some minutes up
to several hours with considerable exactness, the error scarcely
exceeding from two to five per cent. Moreover certain individuals
were found to commit errors of a constant over- or under-estimation
of the times tested in the form of a constant quotient. In this way
they resulted in giving a significant demonstration of the exactness
of this group of “ unconscious ” performances, such as could never
be achieved by the waking consciousness. There are moreover a
number of clinical observations which indicate the preservation
of similar faculties, even where there is a marked impairment of
corresponding conscious mental functions. For instance, a further
series of experiments with hypnosis has ascertained the function of
an unconscious, “ primitive ” time-sense in patients with Kor-
sakoff s disease, although the complete lack of temporal orientation
is one of the main features of this syndrome. Experiences in certain
patients with various aphasic and kindred disorders caused by more
or less localised bilateral cerebral lesions gave similar results.^
Thus in these cases hypnosis or more or less pronounced organic
lesion has led to what might here also be called a “ dissociation ” of
mental function, and a hyperactivity of a particular faculty, un-
known in the normal individual in the waking state, was attained
in these conditions too. We can even say that this hyper-function
seems to be particularly marked in the condition of a reduced
mental level of an “ abbaissement general du niveau mental ” as
Janet puts it. The time-estimation of modern man represents a
deteriorated atavistic function, and it seems to be just the relapse
to a primitive functional level during sleep, hypnosis or an organic
^ “ Experiments on Unconscious Time-Appreciation ”. Archiv. f. d. Ges.
Psychologie. 1923.
2 “ The Problem of ‘
Time-Sense ’
” [Klinische Wochenschrift). 1931.
o
22(3 Hans Ehrenwald, M.D. [part ,
,
lesion of the hrain which leads to the re-emergence of a forfeited
faculty, usually inaccessible to the waking state. We know that
analogous faculties seem to be preserved in certain reactions of the i
infant, and in the habits of social insects, particidarly bees. -The
striking performances of spatial orientation in migrant birds are
proverbial, and Professor Culpin refers to analogous powers of
orientation in savages as an example of hyperaesthesia in the sense
mentioned above.
All these observations deserve more than a mere accidental
interest. They show that the fundamental biological principle of
compensation and over-compensation holds true also in regard to
the mental activities of man. It is undoubtedly a lasting merit of
Alfred Adler, the founder of Individual Psychology, to have made !
this principle the chief tenet of his doctrine, even if it has not been :
entirely a matter of recent psychological discovery. Homer, the •
blind seer, Demosthenes, the stammering orator, have exemplified
the same principle among the ancients, and the case of Helen Keller,
and some facts revealed by modern sense-physiology, as for instance
the marked refinement of the cutaneous sensilulity in congenital
Idindness, etc., all point in the same direction.
A corresponding observation of the present writer, ^ concerning the
conditional improvement of the faculty of “ reading ” by the skin |
in a case of word-blindness due to an arterio-sclerotic lesion of the
lirain, gives a further instance of these correlations. Any temporary
im])airment of the patient’s residual reading ability (it extended to
a few meaningless letters only) was linked with a temporarily marked
improvement of his “ skin-reading ”, and vice-versa any improve-
nient of his visual functions led to a transient reduction of his
“ skin-reading ” ability. In this case I realised that these alter-
native processes were a sign of a counterbalancing transmission of
central energies from one kind of mental activity to another, the
im])airment of the first appearing to set free a certain amount of
energy, thus improving the second, and the improvement of the
second consuming an adequate amount of energy, thus impairing
the first.
The observations made in this case are significant for our problem
mainly as a further example of the suggested compensatory cor- i
relations in the field of the pathology of the brain. But they reveal i
at the same time a remarkable counterpart of another observation, I
leading far beyond the sphere of any merely biological compensatory l
mechanism, into the sphere of alleged supernormal phenomena.
1 “ Observations in a Case of Word-blindness ” {Zsrhr. f. d. Ges. Neur. u.
Pftyrhi(itrie). 1930.
163] Psychopathological Aspects of Telepathy 227
The case was examined by the well-known Professor of Forensic
Medicine in Kiga, F. von Neureiterd and his record is based on
thorough observation both medical and psychological. As regards
the thoroughness and comprehensiveness of these preliminary ex-
aminations the case seems to be unique of its kind and therefore
particularly apt for the present purjiose. The experimenter seems
to have observed every precautionary measure desirable against
any possible deception or self-deception. Moreover, it is to be em-
phasised that the subject was more or less an imbecile child so that
any fraudulent intention, any possibility of collusion could be ruled
out at the outset. A great part of the examinations took place in
the absence of the child’s relatives in Professor Neureiter’s institute
in Riga, and their authenticity was vouched for by several members
of the Riga University.
As far as I know his small booklet of 56 pages has remained little
known to the English public and the great theoretical interest of
the facts revealed has been disregarded both by orthodox science
and psychical research. Thus a short epitome in these pages of
Professor Neureiter’s account seems to be justifiable. It was in his
capacity as a medical authority that Dr F. Kleinberger, a medical
practitioner in Trapene, Lithuania, appealed to him in a letter, part
of which may be reproduced here in my own translation.
“ . . . As I assume that you are interested in things of that kind,
I should like to report to you a case of outstanding interest, as far
as I can see. ... It is the case of a nine-year-old girl. Both
parents are alive and healthy, they are smallholders. The mother,
whom I met, makes a thoroughly intelligent impression. No mental
disorders or other abnormalities in the rest of the family or in the
ascendants, as far as I can understand. There are two more children,
an elder and a younger one, both normal. The child in question
was normally born, and developed, according to her mother, in a
normal way. She played with other children normally, etc., she
was rather lively and sociable. The only thing which struck those
who knew her was that she remained backward in speaking. When
7-8 years of age she expressed herself in the manner of a child of 2.
At the age of 8 she eventually managed to speak so far as to be able
to attend an elementary school. Initially, as long as she had to learn
only disjointed letters, she was able to foUow the tuition. Later on,
however, when reading syllables was to be taken up, the teacher
was startled by her complete incapacity to read even the simplest
context. That was the case when she was sitting in the classroom,
on her form. But if the teacher were standing near the girl, reading
^ Wissen um Fremdes Wissen, etc. Gotha, 1935.
228 Hans Ehremvald, M.D. [part
gently or only in iJiought to himself, the child “ read ” without
mistake, a text which she had never learned to read before, or even
any text required, and in any foreign language, though she knew
only Lithuanian.”
Dr Kleinberg adds that although the child’s performances in
arithmetic were similarly poor, they became equally amazing when
the calculation in question was made by the teacher (or by her
mother) in thought. The latter also complained that she was unable
to hide anything from the child—llga knew at once where
the object concerned was hidden. Dr Kleinberg, also, had per-
formed a few tests with llga which fully confirmed the information
obtained.
Professor Neureiter, after some hesitation, consented to see the
child in Riga. The first session took place in his consulting room
with Ilga’s mother acting as agent. llga was sitting with her back
turned towards her mother or behind closed doors in a neighbouring
room. These preliminary observations confirmed the previous
reports in every respect. Yet it was only the vivid interest of
Professor Neureiter’s colleagues at the University of Riga and an
encouraging letter from Professor Driesch of Leipzig that induced
him to take up the investigations in a more systematic way. The
time available for that purpose was somewhat short. Ilga’s home
village was rather far away from Riga and her mother could not
spare more than two days’ absence from her home. The second
session took place next morning, on May 22nd, 1935, with several
members of the University present, the third session on the same
evening with still more witnesses participating. To begin with, the
results were disappointing. The tests proved after a few lucky hits,
a complete failure, leading eventually to Ilga’s starting to cry
bitterly. Yet after the child had had a little rest and a meal, the
atmosphere became somewhat more cheerful, and llga succeeded
in producing several of her usual performances. She did still better
in the third session, after Professor Neureiter had ceased to carry
out the tests in presence of all the invited witnesses, and instead
allowed only a couple of them to participate at any one time.
All these observations, however, did not fully satisfy Professor
Neureiter. He therefore decided to see llga in her home village.
Here he resumed his investigations with his colleague, Professor
Amsler, the pharmacologist of the University of Riga, and Dr
Kleinl)erger present. The observations gathered on that occasion
were so convincing that he could no longer refrain from acknow-
ledging that the jfiienomena were genuine. Prof. Neureiter points
to the following arguments in favour of this opinion : (1) The
163]
Psychopathological Aspects of Telepathy 229
subject was a feeble-minded child whose reduced mental capacity
necessarily ruled out the possibility of using some intricate code,
that is, the possibility of collusion. On the other hand, the facts
to be established required no intricate means of observation. They
could be elicited and checked in the most simple way. (2) The
possibility of deception could be ruled out by placing the agent and
the percipient with their backs turned to one another, when sitting
in the same room, or separated by a curtain. In some of the later
experiments they were sitting in two separate rooms. (3) Particular
care was taken to notice and avoid the slightest sign of involuntary
whispering on the part of the agent. Lip reading was excluded
beforehand by the measures mentioned above ;
Professor Neureiter
and his substitutes, when acting as senders, took special care to
avoid giving away clues of any such kind. (4) Professor Neureiter
considers that the fact that any attempt at intentional and deliber-
ate transmission of “ thoughts ” failed completely was a further
argument in favour of the genuineness of the phenomena. The
best results were to be obtained when the agents refrained from any
such intentional behaviour, e.g. when the child’s attention was
diverted from the test by her being absorbed in play.
The number of tests performed altogether amounted to 42, all
of which have been thoroughly recorded. A few are reproduced
below.
Test 9. One of the participants, Professor Briickmanii, writes
this calculation on a sheet of paper :
4.4 + 5.5 = 41
and hands it over to llga’s mother who was playing the part of
agent. She turns to Professor Neureiter stating that she did not
understand the task. Professor Neureiter is just about to explain
to her that the points mean signs of midtiplication, when the child,
unexpectedly, utters the number 41. Her mother, obviously,
following Professor Neureiter’s explanations, was just considering
the result of the calculation and the transmission took place in that
very moment.
Test 12. Professor Amsler writes in the adjoining room a list of
words and figures on a sheet of paper. Then he enters the room
where, behind a curtain, the mother is situated, while the rest of
those present stay with the child in front of the curtain. Ilga,
without being asked to do so and without interrupting her play,
reproduces the whole list without the slightest mistake.
Task :
ger, til, tli. Solution :
ger, til, tli,
123, 213, 312. 123, 213, 312.
230 Hans Ehremvahl, M.D. [part
Her voice differs on these occasions from her normal way of speaking.
She pronounces each syllable more distinctly, in a somewhat ex-
aggerated manner. In another test she reproduces the figure 42 as
12. From the attached reproduction of Professor Neureiter’s hand-
writing the cause of this mistake is clearly to be seen : her mother
mistook the 1 for a 4, thus revealing unmistakably her exclusive
role as an agent in the instance in question.
We have already emphasised that in the beginning experiments
with persons, other than her mother, acting as agents, proved fail-
ures. Yet the following test gives a very instructive example of
such an initial failure and subsequent success.
Test 38. “ I (Professor Neureiter) take the place of the agent and
try to transmit to the child the figures 9 and 2 ;
then a sentence,
printed in the child’s Lithuanian primer ; Mate gaja uz kleti. I
concentrate with exertion upon my task, sharply accentuating every
syllable in thought . .
.
yet in spite of all effort the percipient
remains silent. 1 am just about to close the book discontentedly
and to break up the experiment when my look is caught by the
word Brute (
= bride) in the context of the Lithuanian poem, the
first words of which I was trying in vain to transmit. And at that
very moment the child, situated in the adjoining room, uttered the
word. Thus this was the way by which the reception happened
to work perfectly, although—or better because—I refrained from
volitional sending. At the moment when I perceived the word
Brute I wondered why it was used in a modern Lithuanian first
spelling book. It was taken from the German Brant, thus it was a
foreign word, and, moreover, obsolete. There was instead, the
genuine Lithuanian Ligava available. Considering all that, I did
not, in any case, think any longer of my original task. . .
.”
Professor Neureiter adds that this whole chain of reasoning did
not take place in any formulated way of thinking. Accordingly only
the word that gave rise to his reflections became transmitted to the
child. From that he draws the conclusion that it is not the mental
contents pure and simple which are liable to telepathic transmission
in his case but exclusively words formed in the “ inner language
”
of the agent. Yet this activity of these formulated thoughts is
obviously dependent on their remaining in the periphery of con-
sciousness,—in what W. James has called the fringe of the mind.
The more the agent’s attention is attracted by any other mental
contents, the better are the conditions for their acting upon the
mind of the percipient.
This is illustrated also by the excellent success of the experiments
performed with Ilga’s brother, Victor, a boy 6 years of age, as an
163]
Psychopathological Asj)ects of Telepathy 231
agent. He transmitted to his sister simple words read and the names
of pictures shown to him without her committing the slightest
mistake. In Professor Neureiter’s view this success is to be attri-
buted to the fully candid, unintentional attitude of the boy towards
his task, in contradistinction to the often spasmodic efforts of the
adult.
Ilga’s restriction to reproducing only the literal wording of
thoughts to be transmitted is shown also by the following test.
She is playing with a picture book, while her mother, in the ad-
joining room is told to “ send ” her the order to put the book away.
At the same moment the child produces the sentence. Yet she keeps
on playing, without the slightest attention to the order received.
Another significant clue was given by the following
Test 20. Dr Kleinberger hides his watch under one of the many
cushions in the room. Ilga stays in the meantime with her mother
in the adjoining room. Whilst the mother is informed of the hiding
place the child enters the room saying at once :
“ The watch is under
the cushion !
”
Yet she is far from being able to get hold of it at
the first attempt. She finds it only after having inspected one
cushion after the other.
However, the most" striking of her performances were in “ read-
ing ”. She managed to read any test offered to her mother, be it
in Lithuanian, German, French, English or Latin. The mistakes
she committed corresponded in every respect with those appropri-
ate to her mother’s degree of education. For instance she spelled
numbers she came across in the French context in Lithuanian
language, she pronounced the French words phonetically in the
Lithuanian way, etc.
Professor Neureiter did not restrict himself to these and similar
experimental findings. He undertook a thoroiigh ]:>hysical and psy-
chological examination both of the child and her parents and
enquiry into the family history. Here he gathered that a brother
of Ilga’s mother was reported to be feeble-minded. Yet both
parents were found normal in every respect. The father’s attitude
towards Ilga’s extraordinary faculties was rather reserved, whilst
her mother—more impulsive and ambitious by nature—appeared to
appreciate them somewhat more. Ilga’s brother Victor is a well-
developed, intelligent boy, his sister Velta, 14 years, somewhat less
gifted, pale and thin. She is backward particularly in arithmetic
and looks embarrassed towards strangers.
Ilga, 10 years and 4 months at the time of examination, had a
normal upbringing ;
no childish ailments, no fits were reported.
Yet she was backward in the control of her sphincters. Her weakest
232 Hans EhremvaM, M.D. [part
point, liowever, was in speaking ;
she was hardly to be understood
even by her family up to her eighth year of age. Then she showed a
marked improvement and was able to attend school from autumn
1934 onwards. There she learnt writing fairly well, as can be seen
from a specimen of her handwriting in 1. Yet she remained
definitely incapable of learning to read more than a few meaningless
letters, as already intimated in Dr Kleinberg’s letter. Her “ super-
normal ” abilities became conspicuous about that time, yet on
retrospection her mother recalled that as long as twm or three years
ago she became aware that she was hardly able to hide objects from
her daughter.
Ilga’s photograph as reproduced here {fig. 2) shows a child of
peasant-like appearance, with a comparatively big skull and some-
what dull facial expression. Her physical condition, particularly
the central nervous system, was found completely normal, as were
the ocidar fundi, her sight, hearing, etc. Her speech is described as
somewhat unwieldy, the phonation of the consonants r and s
deficient. Her manual skill and dexterity are fully adequate ;
she
is lively and sociable, good tempered and complaisant. She answers
questions readily, yet in short and ]irimitive sentences. She is
hardly likely to take the initiative in conversation or otherwise,
her movements are rather clumsy.
Two of Professor Neureiter’s collaborators, psychological experts,
accomplished the child’s examination by testing her by means of
the Binet-Bobertag and Biihler-Hetzer methods. These tests re-
sulted in an IQ of 0.42. Her best performances were in various
bodily actions, in dealing with materials ;
the lowest were in
speaking, which was found to correspond to a mental age of a child
of between 3 and 4 years. (Neurologists would call her mode of
speaking a “ developmental aphasia of agrammatical type ”).
These findings led Professor Neureiter to diagnose Ilga K. as a
case of feeble-mindedness of considerable degree.
So much for his records of the case, the importance of which need
not be further emphasised. It is one of the rare thoroughly in-
vestigated and well confirmed cases of telepathy, examined under
favourable circumstances by a trustworthy and critical observer.
Yet there may be added a few more remarks which might possibly
accentuate still more the interest of the case.
In a paper ^ dealing with Neureiter’s publication from a medico-
psychological point of view I ventured to show that the classification
of Ilga’s case as a common form of feeble-mindedness needs some
1 “ Brain-pathological Remarks on a Case of ‘
Supernormal Phenomena ’ ”
{Zeitschrift f. d. Gesamte Neurologie u. Psychintrie). 1937.
PLATE I
^WJtUAUUj IU^J&(-fJUy
'kt \/UjXV %l/ ix^'iy ToUUoi^ VaJUx^
'
Pig. 1
!
Specimen of Ilga’s handwriting. The Lithuanian text is
worded : Es savai maminai I)iy’ maizites vien izcepu ;
Vel
I gribeju treso eejit, Tautas valas vairs nedeva.
I
Neureiter ; Knowledge ahoul Foreiijn Knowledge.
1 J
163]
Psychopathological Aspects of Telepathy 233
correction. In such persons all intellectual capacities are usually
found to be equally defective—although it is well known that one
or another mental function may happen to be found developed to
an extraordinary degree. In Ilga’s case, in contrast, there was
present a more or less circumscribed intellectual defect, with no
marked impairment of the rest of her mental functions. Her com-
plete inability to read, in contrast with her preserved faculty of
writing, completely dominated her picture—at least from the neuro-
logical point of view.
Professor Neureiter’s report points particularly to her striking
inability to compose disjointed letters which she succeeded in
deciphering into syllables and. words. She was not even able to
read her own handwriting. On the other hand this handwriting is
fairly good, at least as far as the how of writing and the forming
of letters is concerned. It is at any rate little worse than might be
expected from her age and the extent of her schooling. On closer
scrutiny, however, there are to be found tendencies to distort and
reverse letters, which remind the expert of mistakes characteristic
of the writing of patients with lesions of their brains in the left
parietal lobe. Also what we have gathered from Professor
Neureiter’s report about her speech (her slight aphasic disorders)
points to the same direction.
These clues, taken together, lead to the classification of the
described disorder as a case of so-called congenital u'ord-blindness.
That is a particular neurological syndrome, as first described by
Dejerine, and specially by Pringle-Morgan, Hinshelwood, and others.
Patients of this group, althoTigh their faculty of visual recognition is
scarcely impaired, show just the very defect found in the child.
Both acquired and congenital forms of word-blindness have become
known, and Ilga K. obviously represents nothing else than a case
of the latter group. Thus we must realise that the case which, by
the routine way of testing had appeared a simple instance of im-
becility, is in fact to be regarded as a more or less circumscribed
intellectual, that is to say, cerebral defect of congenital origin.
This suggestion, however, serves to open up a new as^^ect of
Professor Neureiter’s observations. The development of Ilga’s
“ supernormal ” faculties—her performances in telepathic reading—
in conjunction with her overriding intellectual defect, seems to be
more than mere coincidence.
This diagnostic classification of Professor Neureiter’s case attracts
attention to the striking fact that here again the child’s most out-
standing “ supernormal ” performances seemed to correspond with
just that order of functions which proved to be impaired by her
234 Hans Ehrenwald, M.D. [part
overriding congenital defect. On the one hand a more or less cir-
cumscribed minus-function was present, and, on the other, a par-
ticular “ supernormal ” function which can, by analogy to the
previous cases, be best realised as the product of some unusual
compensatory tendency of the affected organism. Even the appar-
ent contradictions to this suggestion seem to point in the same
direction. For instance—besides her predominant word-blindness
—
there were observed some less conspicuous aphasic di.sturbances, as
mentioned above. Accordingly the child’s “ supernormal ” per-
formances in the wider domain of “ thought-reading ”, in the finding
out of hidden objects without the mediation of the written word,
remained less conspicuous. Her dexterity in this respect seemed
to be dependent on how far the tasks were expressly formulated in
the experimenter’s inner language, so to speak. Thus the suggested
correspondence between the minus-function on the one hand, and
the tendency for its compensation in some “ supernormal ” way on
the other, seems to be indicated here as well, although to a slighter
degree, in as much as the child’s speech-disorders were less pro-
nounced in comparison with her prevailing difficulty in reading.
So far this case is yet another illustration of the general biological
law of a compensatory tendency in any defective organic structure
or mental function, as claimed particularly by Individual Psycho-
logy. There is, however, a very great discrepancy, if not a gulf,
between the previous cases and the one under discussion. In the
case of dreams, of hypnosis and related states, there are to be ob-
served effects which come within the scope of recognised medical
and psychopathological experience, even when they happen to
exceed the usual ability of the subject’s faculties. In the case of
Ilga K. the problem is different. There is no doubt that the child’s
obvious mental insufficiency, her circumscribed intellectual defect,
falls within the field of medical psychology. The compensatory
reaction claimed for it leads on the other hand into a world where
there is a complete lack of evidence for any comprehensible organic
basis for the alleged supernormal abilities. This difficulty, it is true,
cannot be eliminated by the present account. Yet that does not
absolve the scientist from his obligation to deal with it similarly to
other problems met with in the course of his experience.
But even in this incomplete stage of understanding, new fight
seems to be thrown upon certain conditions required for the origin
of the child’s “ supernormal ” manifestations. One essential con-
dition seems to be the presence of a more or less circumscribed
mental defect, combined with some more general lowering of mental
activity. On the other hand there seems to be required the presence
163 ]
Psychopathological As'jyects of Telepathy 235
of what we might call the reactive powers of the organism, which
could hardly be defined more exactly without recourse to philo-
sophical speculation. The comparison of the case of alexia due to
cerebral sclerosis with the case of congenital origin illustrates the
problem in a very instructive manner. In the first instance the com-
pensatory mechanism involved an alternative weakening or strength-
ening of either tactile or optical central activities. In the second
example also, this alternative interaction seems to involve a source
of energy made accessible by the given cerebral defect. Yet these
sources are to be located, obviously, in deeper strata of the subject’s
mental activity. It is a matter of convenience to consider the
unconscious as being the matrix of these energies. Further specula-
tions about their mode of action seem to be premature for the time
being. The main point is that such a conception seems to facilitate
the first approach to the problem of alleged telepathic phenomena
from a “ normal ”, that is to say, a biological point of view through-
out. At the same time it will prove an expedient working hypothesis
for the approach to further psychopathological problems, as will be
shown later on.
However, such a working hypothesis of the origin of telepathic
phenomena enables us to understand more of their conditions
only so far as the part of the percipient is concerned. They throw
no light upon the conditions on the part of the agent.—for example.
Professor Neureiter as the experimenter in the case in question.
There is, however, one important remark to be made at this point
in regard to his observations. At the beginning of his experiments
he had great initial difficulties in verifying the phenomena. Eager
to facilitate and provoke them by his own voluntary effort, he
sought to concentrate on the context before him, but without
success. The child remained dumb. Meanwhile, the experimenter’s
attention became diverted by a certain obsolete word in the passage
he was reading. At that very moment the child, unexpectedly,
uttered the word. We know, as a matter of fact, by a number of
similar experiences that the optimal condition for producing the
reactions concerned seems to be a relaxed passive mental attitude,
abandoning as far as possible any purposive intention.
On the look-out for further clues so far as the psychological
conditions on the part of the agent are concerned, we are confronted
with a mass of similar observations, particularly in the formidable
bibhography of psychical literature. It may, however, be per-
missible to disregard this material in this article. The present con-
siderations propose to deal mainly with the medico-psychological
aspects of telepathic phenomena. Thus it seems to be advisable
236 Hans Ehrenwald, M.D. [part
to restrict substantial implications to experience in the field of
medical and psychological research, contributed by medical and
medico-psychological authors.
There are two remarkable observations of Sigmund Freud ^ which
may be referred to here. The first case he reports is of a lady, 43
years of age, undergoing treatment for different neurotic disorders.
Her psycho-analysis revealed a strong fixation to her father, which
prevented her finding happiness in her marriage. She was longing
for children and hoped to reawaken her love for her husband by the
roundabout way of identifying him, as the father of her children,
with her own father-image. As she understood that she had to
abandon any lioj)e of having children in consequence of her hus-
band’s disease, she becanre more deeply entangled in her neurosis.
She was 27 years old when she turned to a “ fortune-teller ” in
Paris who, taking her for unmarried, prophesied that she would
have two children at the age of 32. But by the time her psycho-
analysis began, this ])rophecy had proved manifestly wrong : the
patient had remained childless, and there was less hope than before
of her having children. Yet psycho-analysis resulted, nevertheless,
in a sur]U'ising revelation of a certain correspondence to reality
in the fortune-teller’s statement. The patient’s mother was just
32 years old when, within the shortest jmssible time, she gave birth
to two children, having almost resigned hope of having children
at her age. It was clear that the patient in her phantasy took the
place of her mother, and the fortune-teller, l)y introducing into the
“ fortune ” told to her a circumstance relating to her mother’s life,
hit upon the daughter’s most ardent secret desire. The wish to have
children governed her imconscious life for years and was certainly the
original cause of her falling ill just at that time. Thus the fortune-
teller’s prophecy had proved wrong, it is true, but the striking fact
is that it disclosed precisely and in a fully adequate manner a dis-
tinct unconscious idea in the ]:>atient’s mind. It is certain that the
fortune-teller had no normal means of understanding the significance
to the daughter of either the reference to two children or to the
age of 32.
The second observation of Professor Freud refers again to a
fortune-teller’s prophecy. This patient, a young man, fell ill at the
time of his beloved sister’s wedding. Psycho-analysis revealed here
a strong fixation to his sister. Nevertheless, he encouraged the
marriage in spite of the disapproval of their parents. Now, after
having undergone a first analytic treatment, the young man con-
' Traum und Occultismus. Neve Folge der Voiiesungen iiber Psycho-analyse,
1933.
163]
Psychopathological Aspects of Telepathy 237
suited a lady astrologer wlio “ prophesied ” her client’s future by
means of a horoscope, starting from birth-data. The young man
gave her the birth-data of his brother-in-law, who it was foretold
would rlie the next July or August from poisoning l)y raw hsh or
oysters.
Now, his brother-in-law, certaiidy, did not die at the predicted
time. Yet he had fallen ill in the course of the past summer, before
the patient consulted the astrologer, and the cause of the illness was
in fact poisoning from raw fish and oysters. Analysis made it
obvious that Freud’s patient had not at that time overcome his
unconscious hatred of the rival who had married his beloved sister.
Hence his repressed wish that he might have died of the poisoning.
According to Freud’s conjecture he might have thought ;
“ The
inclination to eat such things is a persistent one. . . . Why should
it not occur again. . . . ?
” As there was no possibility of the
astrologer’s knowing about this insignificant detail from the life
history of the brother-in-law, Freud was compelled to suggest that
this intelligence was to be attributed to some “ supernormal
”
telepathic means of communication with the inquirer’s unconscious.
In this way only could the fortune-teller be supposed to have re-
vealed to her client a certain item in his brother-in-law’s biography,
related in a particular way to his now repressed wishes and ex-
pectations. Thus her statements, though having no value as pro-
phecy, succeeded in revealing certain elements of his uncon.scious
mental life which stood in close connection to the precipitating
cause of his neurosis.
There is no reason to call into question the account of such an
authoritative and critical investigator as Freud. There are only
two possible courses, either to deny the facts—or to attempt their
explanation on the basis of our available knowledge. Freud himself
has considered in his cases the possilulity of a particular effectiveness
of repressed wishes and impulses. This activity, in his view, is wont
to be emphasised by their particular stage of repression, by their
obvious tendency to emerge from the unconscious into the stage of
pre-consciousness.
This hypothesis, though it ignores the conditions on the part of
the fortune-teller—that is, the percipient—elucidates them as they
are to be realised on the part of the agent (that is of his client) in a
very informative way. And it may be added that such a hypothesis
leads to certain suggestions as to the problem of extra-sensory per-
ception in general, such as are found in para-psychological and
psychical literature. Similarly Helen Deutsch in a paper on
* Imago. 1926.
238 Hans Ehremvald, M.D. [part
“ Occult J^Ianifestations during Psycho-analysis ”, states that par-
ticularly emotionally stressed processes within her own conscious-
ness appeared to have been “ guessed ” in a telepathic way by her !
patients. These experiences, in her view, seem to confirm Freud’s l
hypothesis. Analogous observations have been published by i
Hollos, and by Dorothy Burlingham in connection with child-
'
analyses, and others.
Freud himself has pointed to the happy conditions for such j
occurrences with children as subjects. An observation of this kind i
was made by the present writer in his own household. His wife
'
was occupied with house-work, whilst their four and a half year old I
daughter Barbara was absorbed in play by her side. A few days i
previously his wife had answered a letter received from the U.S.A.
and she was thinking about her friends over there, Clarence and his j
wife Matilda. Clarence is her half-cousin, with whom she had spent !
a happy time in America a few years Irefore her wedding. Clarence !
married at about the same time as she did and the letter from
America announced the birth of his second child. There was a
photograph of three ladies attached to the letter, one of them being
Matilda. As she did not know her personally, she wondered which I
of them was Clarence’s wife. Just as she was thinking about this j
photograph, she was struck l)y the unexpected and apparently
j
completely unmotivated ejaculation of the name Matilda by the
child. It may be added that Barbara used to speak German at
that time and that she scarcely had any op]-)ortunity of meeting
with the name in any other version than “ Tildi ” (the name of one
of her aunts). The child, asked the other day by the writer, whether
she remembered having said the name replied, “Yes . . . I was
having a game with mummy.” But on further inquiries and re-
flexion she added that she remembered having heard Matilda as
the name of a cat which she had seen with friends a few months ago.
No further associations were to be had from her.
It is clear that this observation, again, does not exclude the possi-
bility of a coincidence. Yet it is obvious that the odds for such an
event are enormously small, particularly when we consider that from
Barbara’s ])oint of view the English form of the name was unusual.
So much is known of the psychological conditions on the part of
the child. They revealed no sensible reason for her unexpectedly
uttering the word. It may be added here that Barbara has never
shown any abnormal signs ;
the general mental age of a child of four |
or five years is the only justification for ascribing to her also a
condition of “ minus-function ” similar to that claimed for the
percipients in the foregoing examples. How far her actual mental
163] Psychopathological Aspects of Telepathy 239
state at the moment of transmission affected it cannot be decided
here.
But her mother gave more information, saying : “No . . . I do
not know Matilda. ... I only know that they have been married
for about the same time as we have. They have a child of about
Barbara’s age . . . and now they have got another . . . these happy
Americans. . . . They can afford such a luxury^ ...” It would be
redundant to continue the chain of her associations, which led to an
idea whose strong emotional stress need not be particularly ex-
plained. It is sufficient to intimate that she has had to resign hope
of having another child for the time being. It is clear that the
frustration of this desire was likely to strengthen the emotional
emphasis of her associations linked to the name of Matilda. This
particular emotional emphasis is obviously to be regarded as the
activating factor for the telepathic transmission of the name from
mother to child.
We see that the postulate of a certain emotional stress being
responsible for the activity of ideas or impulses liable to telepathic
transmission holds true for the present case as well. It clearly shows
that the activating forces are to be located in the unconscious or
pre-conscious of the agent, as in the preceding instances.
On the other hand there are some observations of Dr William
Brown ^ during the course of psychotherapy which show that it is
just the attitude, as already emphasised, of a certain mental relaxa-
tion and passivity which seems to be the psychical state required for
the bringing about of these phenomena. He reports the case of a
patient to whom, during a session of treatment by suggestion, “ the
vivid picture of a page of a scientific journal appeared, with two
columns in the form of a letter, signed at the bottom ”. On re-
flection Professor Brown realised that when glancing at a copy of
Nature his eye had been caught by one of the letters printed. He
handed the copy of the journal to his patient, who looked through
it and found “ the identical letter ”. Professor Brown felt compelled
to agree with his patient in regarding this observation as a case of
telepathy. He also reports a further analogous case where, in the
course of a discussion of a Greek quotation, something like a tele-
pathic transmission of a distorted word occurred, belonging to a
jocular recollection of his school years, though there was no coirscious
intention of communicating it to the friend with whom he was
talking.
Comparing these reports with the above-mentioned self-observa-
tion of Professor Neureiter
—
viz. the instance when he became an
' Psychology and Psychotherapy. 1934.
240 Hans Ehrenwald, M.D. [part
involuntary “ agent ” at the very moment when he was meditating
about the meaning of an obsolete word—there seems to be an un-
mistakable similarity with Dr Brown’s description of his own mental |
state during his observations. This mental state implies only ,
seemingly a certain contradiction to the conditions suggested above
as responsible for telepathic manifestations, that is a state of a
'•
certain incomplete repression or emotional emphasis of the ideas or
impulses concerned. It is obvious that there is one feature, common
to both apparently contradictory mental conditions, to be taken
into consideration : it is the abandonment from the content of
conscious ideas which makes them liable to extra-sensory com-
munication. This condition given, they seem to be particularly
susceptible of activity in some way or another, that is, of operating
upon the mind of another person with a corresponding sensitiveness.
Thus the required condition for telepathic manifestations on the part
of the agent could be appropriately described as a lack of actual
conscious control over certain thoughts or impulses—whether due
to their particular emotional stress, linked up with their repression, ;
or to an incidental state of jiassivity and absent-mindedness, the ;
closer determinants of wliich would obviously be accessible only to Hi
deep-psychological analysis. L
Considered together, both grou])s of sufficiently confirmed argu-
ments for telepathic manifestations result in the following set of
conditions : ( 1 )
a more or less circumscribed minus-function on the
part of the percipient, linked up (2) with an adequately preserved
faculty for compensatory reaction of his organism. Where these two
conditions are sufficiently pronounced, no “ supernormal ” faculties
seem to be required on the part of the agent. (As a model case of
this kind we may quote the relation Ijetween Professor Neureiter
and his sul)ject, or Professor Brown and his patient.) (3) In the
case of an absent or scarcely discernible minus-function on the part
of the percipient, a more or less emphasised plus-function on the
part of the agent seems to be necessary. That is an emotionally
stressed idea or impulse as in Freud’s two cases—or at least an inci-
dental lack of conscious control of certain ideas, with their resulting
unconscious activation.
The main instances given, however, represent extreme cases,
seldom to be met with in practice. In the majority of spontaneous
or experimental telepathic manifestations all three groups of con-
ditions may be involved with the alternative of either one or another
group of conditions prevailing. Accordingly there may exist a par-
ticular coincidence of conditions, present in both the percipient
and the agent. This coincidence may represent the most favourable
163] Psychopathological Aspects of Telepathy 241
constellation for producing the phenomena, though, of course, it is
only rarely to be found in practice. Usually we may have only one
or the other of the suggested conditions, with, consequently, only
an occasional occurrence of the phenomena. Further, there may
exist a minus-function, yet without an appropriate reactive power
of the organism—as in the case of the patient with cerebral sclerosis
—moreover with no appropriate “ agent ” available. Finally there
may arise the condition of an adequate mental or bodily reactive
power and general fitness, yet without the postulated minus-
function—as in the normal individual. Considering the obvious
rareness of a simultaneous coincidence of all these conditions, the
relative rareness of sufficiently well-attested “ genuine ” obser-
vations of this kind needs no further explanation. The same re-
flexions explain the difficulties of deliberately producing them, e.y.
under laboratory conditions.
These considerations, it is true, suggest a reading only of the
psychological conditions of the phenomena. They yield no infor-
mation about the corresponding physiological processes. Yet this
question seems to be in no way more transcendental than the
question of the bodily correlates of “ normal ” psychical phenomena.
But this question falls rather within the province of philosophy,
and thus there is reason to deal with it in the present connection.
From a merely descriptive, psychological point of view it simply
confronts us with a particular issue of psycho-physical correlations,
viz. with the fact of an immediate “ extra-sensory ” communication
between two individuals or “ minds ”
—as telepathy was originally
defined by F. W. H. Myers. The scientist, once convinced of the
integrity of the e\ddence, is simply compelled to acknowledge
this group of experiences, to eliminate any quasi-scientific flavour
as far as possible and to try to reconcile it with his previous
knowledge.
Yet scarcely have the difficulties of a first scientific approach been
overcome, when a further and no less considerable obstacle seems
to arise. Both common sense and scientific thinking obstinately
refuse to acknowledge facts of this kind. A. Carrel, in his book
Man the Unknown, is right when he points to the fundamental ten-
dency of our minds to reject the things that do not fit into the frame
of the scientific and philosophical beliefs of our time, so that
scientists are willing to declare that things which cannot be explained
by current theories do not exist at all. This attitude, well known in
various fields of research, is common to both the general public and
the research-worker and seems to be particularly emphasised in the
field of so-called supernormal phenomena. It has certainly been the
242 Hans Ehremvald, M.D. [part
most serious obstacle up to the present to their systematic explora- !
tion, and, it may be admitted here, an initial scepticism and distrust ;
have for a long time hampered the present author in drawing the
appropriate conclusions from his own occasional experiences in this
direction both in everyday life and in the field of psychotherapy.
But he can refer to no less an authority than Sigmund Freud, whose
reluctance in acknowledging and dealing seriously with his two
observations, quoted above, lasted as long as ten years “ for fear
of our scientific world-view being menaced by them ”, as he con-
fessed. This fear may be understood by another statement, reported
of a no less distinguished scientist, the physicist Helmholtz ;
“ Neither the testimony of all the Fellows of the Boyal Society nor
even the evidence of my own senses could lead me to believe in the |
transmission of thoughts from one person to another independently i
i
of the recognised channels of sensation. . .
.” And Helmholtz has r
his counterpart in the late Lord Kelvin, who attributed all such i
accounts “ to bad observation chiefiy, mixed up . . . with the
^
effects of wilful imposture.” |
In one of his latest papers the well-known German psychiatrist,
W. Weygandt ^ has advocated a similar ol)stinate attitude. He cites
Neureitcr’s case in the bibliography of his article, but anxiously
avoids dealing with it in its context—or is his omission only to be
attributed to a significant faulty action of the well-known kind ?
Psycho-analysis has coined the term scotoynisation for this attitude.
Scotomisation is the Iminging about of something like a “ blind spot
”
in the mind’s eye which facilitates the disregarding and repression
of undesired mental contents l)y the unconscious.
Yet even the psycho-analyst H. Hitschmann^ in his paper
Telepathy and Psychoanalysis declared some fifteen years ago that
it is “ unpleasant ” to see the facts of physics and physiology go
l)y the l)oard through the evidence for telepathy, which as a matter
of fact he uncompromisingly reiected. He pointed out how deeply
the disposition to primitive ideas is rooted in the human mind, and
suggests that the narcissistic teiulency to ascribe to oneself “ super-
normal ” faculties corresponds to the infantile craving to possess
omnipotence of thought, a faculty of acting at distance, and the
like, as found alike in the child, the savage, and the insane. Thus
all alleged observations in this line are, in his view, purely mental
subjective ones, products of man’s wishful thinking, of weakness of i
intellect, which makes him cling to the mystical interpretation of his jt
* “ Der Occiilti.smus, seine Grundlagen ii. Gefahren ” {Zeitschr. f- d. Gesamte "
Neurologie u. Psychiafrie). 1939. |l
* The Internntioyml Journal of Psycho-analysis. 1924. i
163 ]
Psychopathological Aspects of Telepathy 243
experiences. Similar was and is the standpoint of Th. Reik and
other psycho-analysts.
Such views for that matter are predominant in the majority of
the educated public right up to the present ;
thus it is not astonishing
that any closer dealing with it has remained a rather suspicious
enterprise—as it was in Maudsley’s time—its explorer running the
risk of having not only his scientihc reputation but also his mental
integrity called in question. We have seen that even the expert
may be misled by the same, error he is used to revealing by deep-
psychology. There is no doubt that such an attitude is far from
being merely rational. Here reason seems to be fighting for her own
sake with forces drawn from deeper levels of mental activity, thus
jeopardising her primordial aims.
We have emphasised that a certain impairment of the purely
rational attitude of consciousness, a certain “ minus-function ” of
mind, has been found to be one of the essential conditions for the
origin of telepathic phenomena. Accordingly any realisation in
practice of these conditions is diametrically opposed to man’s ele-
mentary intellectual striving. It implies a relapse to the stage of
animism and magic, a regression to a superseded, primitive level
of our thinking and reasoning, with the interdicted return of and
return to the repressed, in the sense of Freud.
Thus we have good reason for admitting the justification of the
modern man’s uncompromising rationalistic and over-rationalistic
claims. There is no doubt that the preservation of his present stage
of mentality, of his recent level of consciousness, so hardly achieved
in the course of his individual and racial development, is indispen-
sable to his position in nature and even to his mental normality. Any
relapse from this stage means a re-emerging of his prehistorical past,
a menace to all the moral and intellectual achievements of the
present. That is the reason why we find both human nature and the
attitude of community equipped with powerful protective measures
against such an event. It is the natural trend of the individual’s
mental constitution that works against the occurrence of “ super-
normal ” phenomena. Hence their outlawed position, so to speak,
their comparative rareness, their frequent association with twilight
states between normality and mental illness, or even insanity—as I
propose to show elsewhere. On the other hand it is with a fully
purposive resolution that human society opposes any acceptance of
their possible occurrence. Society protects itself in case of need by
allowing them to be explained away by its scientists, or simply by
means of a social act of scotomisation, when facing this special field
of experience.
244 Hans Ehremvald, 31.D. [part 163]
Thus we become aware that any psychopathological reading of I
telepathic phenomena has to reckon not only with the revealed facts i
but also with the ambiguous reactions of their observers to the facts
revealed. Only after clearing away our deeply rooted prejudices
—
after getting rid of our scientific scotoma—can we begin their truly
rational psychological exploration, unhampered by unconscious
mental reservations and inhibitions. It is clear, however, that no
less care is to be taken to avoid the temptation—a very real one,
as deep-psychology has revealed—of slipping into the opposite .
extreme, no less dangerous for any scientific progress.
There is no doubt that such a resohite yet cautious approach as
suggested here would enable psychopathology to submit the problem
of the alleged supernormal phenomena to a new critical considera-
tion and, possibly, to revise to a certain extent its attitude to them.
The importance of such an issue for a further advance of the fron-
tiers of psychology and of our present scientific outlook in general
need not be further emphasised.
THE ISOLATION OF THE PERCIPIENT IN TESTS FOR
EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION
By Geoffrey Redmayne
Salute Parnassus! Let the climber jind
True solitude upon the lonely peak,
Andfrom his point of isolation seek
The ultimate horizons of the mind.
Introduction
In the recognised tests for extra-sensory perception, such as the
tests employed by the Duke Parapsychology Laboratory or the in-
genious mechanical apparatus devised by Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell, it is
necessary that there should be an operator. In the case of tests for
precognition and for clairvoyance it is for consideration whether the
results obtained by the percipient may not be inadvertently influ-
enced by that operator—even in cases where the latter may have
no normal means of acquiring knowledge which might be of use to
the percipient. If a test for clairvoyance is in progress, the operator
may himself acquire the requisite knowledge by clairvoyance (or by
normal means) and then transmit that knowledge telepathically to
the percipient, so that it is difficult to claim that the ultimate
result is indicative of “ pure clairvoyance ” ;
similar considerations
apply in the case of tests for precognition, except that the acquisi-
tion of knowdedge by normal means is excluded. Again, the operator
may disturb the course of an experiment by the telepathic trans-
mission of subconscious preferences—quite independently of whether
he has any knowledge of value to the percipient.
In order that the percipient may be isolated from the possibility
of such undue influence, it is suggested that the normal duties of
the operator should be undertaken as part of the functions of a form
of automaton, the actions of which, within the desired limits, are
designed to he incalculable by normal means.
If such an automaton is to be effective it must be capable of
selecting numbers or symbols at intervals in a truly random se-
quence, and recording all calls and successes made by the percipient.
Furthermore, as it is to usurp the functions of an operator, it must
245
246 Geoffrey Redmayne [part
hold, as it were, a “ watching brief” for the operator and give an
indication if, on any occasion, the chance factor should be altered
by inadmissible action on the part of the percipient. Apparatus
designed with the above requirements in view, and suitable for tests
for clairvoyance and precognition, is here described.
Specification of the Mechanism
The machine, details of which are shown in the accompanying
photograph and diagram, has the following characteristics :
1. A motor-driven rotary selector, adapted to select one of five
circuits, has five vanes mounted at equal intervals on the periphery.
This selector can lie locked in one of five positions by a magnetically
operated brake which will make positive contact with one of the
five vanes.
2. Means for ensuring that the selector will be stopped in an
“ incalculable ” ]iosition. This is achieved by the following methods
which are supjilementary to one another in the case of tests for
clairvoyance ;
in tests for precognition, the second method only is
used.
{a) Variation of the time interval.
A thermal delay switch is so arranged that it will cause the brake
to go “on”, and then “off”, at uncertain intervals. The switch
is of the type used for safeguarding smoothing condensers from the
peak voltages which arise when power is applied to the anodes of
indirectly-heateil valves before the latter are sufficiently heated to
have cathode emission. The normal delay of such switches is gener-
ally over 30 seconds, but the model chosen can be adjusted so that
the delay is one of approximately five seconds for each interval. In
practice it is found that the switch has an erratic action when
adapted for the present purposes, and on this account it is thought
to be mechanically suitable for controlling the time interval. While
some ])erci])ients will not object to the length of interval, others will
consider it to be unduly long, and it is realised that there is likely
to be adverse criticism on this score. Consequently it would be
advantageous if arrangements could be made for the time interval
to lie varied to suit the percipient, and this is a matter which will
receive consideration.
(b) Variation of the speed of the selector.
Variation in speed is attained by the use of an automatically
variable resistance in the circuit of the electric motor which drives
the selector. A rotary switch blade is continuously driven by the
PLATE II
PA.NE.
L
P
ta.ci
Pie.
NT's
&'*mTclH
boo-a-D
163]
247
The Isolation of the Percipient (E.S.P.)
Circuit
Diagram
for
E.S.P.
Apparatus
248 Geoffrey Redmayne [part
electric motor at a speed of approximately 4 r.p.m., and the switch j
blade, in the course of each revolution, makes four changes in the
resistance of the motor circuit ; consequently the selector is fre-
quently in a state of either acceleration or deceleration. I
(Originally an entirely different method of varying the speed of
|
the selector was employed, the time intervals being constant. Use )
was made of the variation in resistance set up between iron filings !
wlien they are mechanically agitated while retained in a strong |
magnetic field. This variation in resistance affected the operation !
of a supplementary magnetically operated brake which was capable
of retarding, but not stopping, the selector. For some reason,
probably faulty design, the device caused the selector to choose
numbers in a sequence which, on analysis, did not prove to be truly
random ;
it was only with great reluctance that the device was finally i
abandoned, as it was unusually picturesque in its action and, from
the theoretical standpoint, had much to commend it.)
3. A switch box upon which are mounted five press switches for
the use of the percipient, and i
(rt) for use in tests for claii’voyance, an indicating bulb which
shows when the machine is ready to receive a call, and i
(6) for use in tests for precognition, a plunger which the per- !
cipient mirst press after making each call, and a meter i
which will inform him whether he has manipulated the
plunger correctly. i
The switch box contains suitable devices for the prevention of |
inadmissible calls ;
these are described later. j
4. An automatic recorder which indicates each call and registers
each success on a circular paper disc ;
aural indication is given
whenever a success is scored. Each disc is designed to register
50 calls.
Procedure in Tests for Clairvoyance ;
t
The percipient scores a success if, when the selector has chosen a i
circuit, he presses a switch which is connected in that circuit.
A switch may lie pressed at any time when the bulb on the switch
box is glowing. The bulb will be “ on ” for about five seconds and
then go “ off ” for about five seconds while the selector is choosing
another circuit.
163]
The lsolatio7i of the Percipie^it {E.S.P.) 249
Procedure in Tests for Precognition
A simple system of switches enables the circuit to be altered so
as to be suitable for testing precognitive faculties. In this case the
selector is rotating continuously except for a momentary period
after the percipient has chosen a circuit. Almost immediately after
a switch has been pressed down to its fullest extent an automatic
switch on the call recorder will close the magnetic brake circuit and
the selector will suddenly stop ;
if the percipient had chosen a
circuit which the selector was about to choose, a success will be
recorded. When a call has been made, a pointer will appear on the
dial of the meter ;
this is a warning that the plunger on the switch
box must be pressed for approximately tw'o seconds in order to
allow the selector to rotate a sufficient number of times before an-
other call is made. If the plunger is operated correctly the pointer
will no longer be in evidence when the plunger is released, but if
the plunger is released too soon the pointer will appear again.
Prevention of Inadmissible Calls
The most complicated part of the apparatus is that which is con-
cerned with the prevention of inadmissible calls. It would seem
that there are three types of erroneous calls against which provision
must be made :
(a) The percipient presses two or more switches at the same time,
and thus increases his chance of a successful score.
{b) In tests for clairvoyance, the percipient makes more than one
call during the period when the selector is stationary.
(c) In tests for precognition, the percipient makes calls with such
rapidity that the selector does not rotate sufficiently be-
tween each call.
In order to ensur'e that the percipient cannot score a success if he
presses two or more switches at the same time, use is made of cer-
tain trip-mechanism which is capable of preventing any further
rotation of the selector. All the switches are connected through a
relay to the trip-mechanism so that one switch cannot alone operate
the trip-mechanism, but so that two or more switches can operate
it. This has been arranged by coupling all the press switches to a
relay through 20 ohm resistances, the relay being adjusted so that it
will not operate with 20 ohms resistance in circuit, but will operate
with 10 ohms resistance in circuit. Thus, if one switch is pressed.
250 Geoffrey Reclmayne [part
the resistance in the relay circuit will be 20 ohms and the relay will i
not be affected ;
but, if two or more smtches are pressed at the
same time, the resistance will be loweretl to 10 ohms or less and the
relay will immediately affect the trip-mechanism on the selector :
panel, with the result that the selector will not be able to rotate
again until the trip-mechanism has been re-set.
The trip-mechanism will also be affected if, in tests for precogni-
tion, the percipient should attempt to make calls at intervals of less i
than about two seconds. The tri])-mechanism relay is in circuit
with a device which is similar in many res]:)ects to the vibrator
assembly of a full-wave vibrating reed rectifier, but the vibrations
of the reed are utilised for an entirely different purpose. Details of
the device are as follows :
An iron reed is suspended between two electro-magnets. One of
the magnets is in parallel with the call recorder and so is energised i
i
only at the time during which the percipient presses a switch ;
the
other and less powerful magnet is continuously energised, except at
the time when the percipient jjresses the plunger on the switch box.
The latter magnet cannot attract the reed unless the reed swings ;
over to it on being released l)y the more powerful magnet. When
the plunger on the switch box is jjressed, the less 2
)owerful magnet j
will release the reed, but the vibrations of the reed will cause it to ,
come frequently within the previous sphere of influence of the I
magnet for a period which is dejrendent on the fundamental tuning
of the reed. It will be evident, then, that should the ^hunger be
released before the viI)rations of the reetl have died down the reed
will again be attracted to the magnet. If the percipient should
attempt to make a call at a time when the reed is attracted to the
magnet, the tri]i-mechanism on the selector jjanel will operate
because the resistance in the relay circuit will have been lowered to
10 ohms {i.e. one of the 20 ohm switch resistances, in jrarallel with
the 20 ohm resistance in circuit with the vibrator). The meter on '
the switch box will inform the jiercipient whether or not he may
safely make a call.
The same device is also used in tests for clairvoyance for the pur-
])ose of preventing the percipient from making more than one call
during the period when the selector is stationary. In such tests the
less powerful magnet is connected to an automatic switch on the '
magnetically operated brake so that the reed is automatically
released whenever the selector starts to rotate ;
consequently the
vibrations of the reed do not serve any useful purjjose, and the
perci|)ient is not concerned either with the ^ilunger or with the
meter on the switch box.
163]
The Isolation of the Percipient (E.S.P.) 251
If, in tests for clairvoyance, the percipient should press a switch
while the selector is rotating, the trip-mechanism will terminate the
experiment. This, while being desirable, was not intended to be a
feature of the design, and the reason for it did not immediately
become apparent. Further study, however, made it clear that the
machine had not acquired some of the characteristics of a monster
of Frankenstein.
It is not thought that a percipient could overcome the limitations
imposed by the above-mentioned devices, as steps have been taken
to ensure that the percipient cannot usefully interfere with the
vibrator assembly by magnetic or other means. In the absence of
any contra-indication, therefore, it will be assumed that adequate
precautions have been taken.
It will be evident that if the apparatus, with the exception of the
switch box, is placed beyond the reach of the percipient, he can be
left entirely alone while he makes each series of 50 calls. The
objection may be raised, however, that the percipient is not com-
pletely isolated because it is still desirable that there should be an
operator to exercise a general supervision over the apparatus and
change the record disc after each series of 50 calls. The only super-
vision required, however, is that of the engineer in charge of mach-
inery whose duties are limited to maintenance ;
he is not concerned
with the quality of the work which is performed with the aid of that
machinery, nor is he indeed cognisant of it during each series of
calls. It is claimed, therefore, that the percipient is no longer
subject to undue influence and that, from this point of view, he is
virtually, in the words of the Ancient Mariner,
“ Alone, alone, all, all alone.
Alone on a wide, wide sea!
”
Analysis of Alleged Random Numbers
The Research Officer has very kindly made an analysis of a series
of circuits which were chosen by the selector at a time when the
apparatus was adjusted for the testing of the clairvoyant faculty ;
for this analysis (and for the photograph) my thanks are due to the
Society. The report is as follows :
“ Tests for Randomness applied to 1000 Numbers produced
BY THE ilpPARATUS WHEN WORKING ON THE PRINCIPLE OF
Thermal Delay
The frequencies of the 5 digits are 177, 211, 222, 190 and 200,
the expectation being 200. The value of y- is found to be 5-67, with
2.52 Geoffrey Redmayne [part
4 degrees of freedom. This corresponds to a value of P of more
than 0-2, which is perfectly consistent with the hypothesis that the
numbers are random.
If we consider the series to be made up of 1000 pairs of digits,
the first pair being the 1st and 2nd digits, the second pair being
the 2nd and 3rd digits, and the 1000th pair being the 1000th and 1st
digits, we can count the frequencies of the 25 possible pairs and
enter them in the cells of a table, as follows ;
Frequencies of the 25 Pairs
Second digit of pair Total
1 2 3 4 5
u-i
1 31 45 47 25 29 177
ct
Ph
O
2 39 46 13 45 38 211
*3j 3 35 43 45 43 56 222
rn
w.
s
4 3f) 41 43 30 40 190
5 36 36 44 47 37 200
Total .
177 211 222 1 90 200 1000
The expectation for each cell is 1000/25 = 40. If m is the expected
number, and m + x is the observed number, then
163 ]
The Isolation of the Percipient {E.8.P.) 253
Cell m-vx X x^
^2
m
11 31 -9 81 2-025
12 45 5 25 -625
13 47 7 49 1-225
It 25 -15 225 5-625
15 29 -11 121 3-025
21 39 -1 1 -025
22 46 6 36 -9
23 43 3 9 -225
24 45 5 25 -625
25 38 _ 2 4 -1
31 35 -5 25 -625
32 43 3 9 -225
33 45 5 25 -625
34 43 3 9 -225
35 56 16 256 6-4
41 36 -4 16 -4
42 41 1 1 -025
43 43 3 9 -225
44 30 -10 100 2-5
45 40 0 0 0
51 36 -4 16 -4
52 36 -4 16 -4
53 44 4 16 -4
64 47 7 49 1-225
55 37 -3 9 -225
1000 0 = 28-300
As there are various relations between the numbers of the pairs,
the degrees of freedom are reduced to 20. The value of P is about
0-1, which, though a trifle low, is not inconsistent with the hypo-
thesis of randomness.”
Portability of the Apparatus
Care has been taken to make the apparatus as compact as possible
in order that it may be readily portable. The whole apparatus,
including accumulators, can be fitted into an attache case measur-
254 Geoffrey Redmayne [part
ing 17i" X 10" X 5V, but normally a case with special fittings meas-
uring 20i" X 12" X 6|" is used. Weight, including larger case and
accumulators, is 16 lbs.
Provision for Stimulus
The recorder is provided with terminals to which may be attached
a Ruhmkorff Coil for the purpose of giving the percipient a stimulus
automatically whenever he scores a success. If the percipient is
attempting to make a high score, then the coil should be adjusted
so that the percipient feels no more than a tingling sensation in the
hands. If the attempt is for a low score, then the shock may be
increased, but care has to be taken not to make the shock so great
that fear is produced, otherwise the paranormal faculty may be
inhibited. The coil will probaldy give most assistance in cases where
it is desired to obtain a significantly low score.
Proposed Developments
It is thought that it would materially add to the value of the
apparatus if it were to be provided with certain adaptors which could
be plugged into the selector panel. Progress has already been made
with designs for ancillary devices which give visual and olfactory
indications of the circuits chosen by the selector.
In the case of visual indication, it is considered that it might be
helpful to a percipient if, before making a call, he were able to con-
centrate upon the actual surface upon which a symbol is about to
appear. This is to be arranged by optical means—five miniature
epidiascopes adapted to throw Zener symbols, in random sequence,
upon the back of a translucent screen.
Olfactory indication presents certain difficulties, chief amongst
which is the design of suitable stopcocks which can be operated by
the selector through relays. An attempt is being made to adapt
an Ether-“ gas-oxygen ” apparatus (as used for general ansesthesia)
so that various aromas are delivered to the percipient through the
usual facepiece. Compressed air is to be used both as a vehicle for
the aromas and as a scavenger during the intervals. For the purpose
of loading the vehicle it is proposed to make use of a special device
which has lieen ^^rimarily designed for the effective control of the
chloroform content of anaesthetizing gases, but which will be par-
ticularly suitable for the present purposes. Details cannot yet be
published, as the device in its application to anaesthesia may eventu-
ally form the subject-matter of Letters Patent.
163 ]
The Isolation of the Percipient (E.S.P.) 255
It would seem that both the above adaptors will be more suitable
for experiments in precognition than in pure clairvoyance. Details
of suitable recorder and associated circuits have not yet been worked
out, but these are matters which must wait upon the completion of
the adaptors.
There may be those who think that the proposed adaptors are an
unnecessary complication and that a solution to the problem of the
paranormal faculty will be found along more conventional lines.
But it may well be that the means whereby we eventually attain
this particular Northwest Passage would not readily be accepted as
a reasonable basis for experiment by the orthodox opinion of the
present day.
ON THE INTERPRETATION OF THE DATA OF CERTAIN
EXPERIMENTS IN PARANORMAL COGNITION
By W. L. Stevens.
Whately Carington reports in Nature (and later in the S.P.R.
Proceedings) that, in a series of experiments conducted at Cam-
bridge, “ percipients scored significantly more resemblances on
originals of experiments in which they were working, as compared
with the originals of the experiments in which they were not work-
ing, than would be expected on the null hypothesis that there is only
a chance connection between the originals used and the drawings
produced (P<0-0001).”
There is no reasonable doubt that the null hypothesis which
Whately Carington chooses to test (and of which the above is not a
very accurate description) has been successfully disproved, but it
would be unfortunate if his readers were left under any misappre-
hension as to the exact nature of the evidence which this supplies for
telepathy or clairvoyance.
The work consisted of a series of five separate experiments, in each
of which drawings were “ exposed ” consecutively while subjects
(who generally each participated in only one experiment) drew
“ what they liked ”. Their drawings were then scored against all
the originals, and the 1,209 resemblances recognised by the judges
can be distributed in a five-by-five contingency table according to
the numbers of the experiments, in which the original was exposed,
and in which the drawing was made. Table I of Whately Caring-
ton’s Proceedings paper reads :
Hits by Drawings made in Experiment
On the
Originals I 11 III IV V
of Expt.
I 81 10 9 53 33 186
11 12.5 26 11 76 44 282
III 61 15 9 66 52 203
IV 43 11 7 58 33 1.52
V 109 24 14 133 106 386
419
•
86 50 386 268 1,209
256
[part 163] Certain Experiments in Paranormal Cognition 257
Taking as the null hypothesis that each “ hit ” enters this table
independently, subject only to the restrictions imposed by the fixed
marginal totals, Whately Carington tests the total of entries in the
leading diagonal (Stevens, 1938 or 1939) and shows that it exceeds
expectation by an amount which is highly significant. Disproof
of a null hypothesis does not, however, automatically estabhsh the
truth of any other hypothesis which the experimenter might have
had in mind when he did the work, and so we must examine more
closely the evidence which this supphes for telepathy.
Stated more fully, the null hypothesis is that the probability that
a hit, made in any experiment, is made on an original of any par-
ticular experiment, is independent, not only of the experiment in
which the drawing was made, but also of any other hits scored.
This null hypothesis might be wrong for a variety of reasons.
One obvious possibility is that subjects may tend to have favourite
drawing topics, or, to put it another way, that the things I draw may
tend to resemble each other more than they resemble the things you
draw. To take a very extreme example ;
suppose a subject draws
a horse on the ten consecutive nights of his experiment. Then
according to whether a drawing of a horse was or was not exposed,
he scores zero or ten, and in the latter case—this is the essential
point—all ten hits must fall en bloc into the one appropriate cell of
the contingency table. This contradicts the null hypothesis that
his ten hits distribute themselves, in the appropriate column of the
table, independently of each other. Of course, nothing so extreme
as this happened, nor indeed need one suppose that there was
excessive duplication of drawings. The definition of “ resemblance
”
being that used by the judge who scored the drawings, then the null
hypothesis would be invalidated if two drawings made by the same
person are more hkely to “ resemble ” each other than are two
drawings made by different persons.
To test whether the contingency table shows deviations from
independence, we can follow the usual procedure. For the whole
table, of sixteen degrees of freedom, is 41-7, which is less probable
than one in a thousand. The hypothesis of independence can
reasonably be held to be disproved.
This leaves open the question of what explanation, if any, we are
to give. I have already suggested one, without in any sense claiming
that this is the true explanation (for I have not seen the original
drawings). Whately Carington would say it was due to telepathy.
Others might maintain that it was the work of.the devil. The point
is that, so far, it is purely a matter of personal taste which explana-
Q
W. L. Stevens
258 [part
tion we choose to adopt, if any, since their effects on the criterion
we have used are indistinguishable.
It is however possible to construct other tests to discriminate 1
between effects of the kind I have suggested and telepathy. If on i,
the telepathy hypothesis we thought it likely that the data should :
deviate from independence in a particular way, and if in fact we
could show that the data did deviate in this way and not in other
tvmjs, then we should be in possession of good evidence for telepathy.
Now it is a reasonable supposition that a subject picks up telepathic
ideas of the drawings of the experiment in which he particijDates, and
not of the drawings of the four experiments in which he does not
participate. Expectations in the cells of the leading diagonal of
the contingency table would thus be enhanced, and it is therefore
pertinent to test whether the total of the entries in the leading
fliagonal significantly exceed expectation, on the null hypothesis, i
Whatever his reasons might have been, this is what Whately Caring-
ton does, and he finds a highly significant excess.
This does not complete the evidence, for such a significant excess !
might well be due to effects of the kind I have suggested. Of |
course, my tentative explanation \vould not imply increased expecta-
tions on the leading diagonal ;
it would however mean that the
diagonal total has a bigger variance than that deduced from the
null hypothesis, so that “ significant ” results in either direction
(in this case it is the right direction for telepathy) would arise more
frequently than indicated by their theoretical significance levels.
To complete the evidence it is therefore necessary to go further, and
show that not only does the contingency table deviate from inde-
pendence in the jjarticular way which would be ascribable to tele-
jiathy, but also that, if we accept the telepathic hyj^othesis as a new
null hypothesis, the data become such as could reasonably have i
arisen, i.e. that they no longer show deviations, which require i
explanation in terms other than telepathy. j
This can be tested. Tele])athy is to account for the excess on
j
the leading diagonal. Let us therefore obliterate from the data ]
the 280 hits in the leading diagonal, and test whether the remaining
data are independent ;
i.e. let us distribute the remaining 929 hits
|
over the remaining twenty cells so that, if the expectations in any 1
four of the twenty cells lying at the corners of a rectangle are '
m. . . . m.o
W3. . .
then = nio'in^.
163 ]
Certain Experiments in Paranormal Cognition 259
When this has been done calculated in the usual way from the
discrepancies between data and expectations, yields 24-20 for eleven
degrees of freedom, which is practically on the one per cent, signi-
ficance level.
While not a very startling level of significance, it should be enough
to make any scientist very shy of accepting the telepathy hypothesis.
Of course, if one takes the \dew that any explanation other than
telepathy is rather fantastic, one could tolerate such an improbable
result. Otherwise one is forced to the conclusion that telepathy
does not adequately explain the peculiarities of the data, and that
therefore there must be some “ natural ” explanation of the kind
I suggest. At this point, I must again stress that my criticism does
not rest on the one alternative explanation which I have put forward
by way of illustration, but on the demonstrated fact that the null
hypothesis is contradicted even in regions of the contingency table,
where telepathy cannot be, or at least has not yet been, invoked as
an explanation. There is therefore another explanation, and one
is obliged to seek it out. This explanation, whatever it may be,
invalidates the null hypothesis, and therefore invalidates the test
of significance for the leading diagonal total.
Whately Carington may indeed reply that he had no right to
assume that telepathy should give rise only to the particular effect
he was looking for, when he tested the diagonal total. This is
fair enough, but it means abandoning the diagonal total test,
and basing conclusions on the result of the comprehensive test of
independence of the contingency table. The mode of operation of
telepathy or clairvoyance, needed to account for the observed de-
viations from independence, would then indeed be very curious,
though that is beside the point, for the preference for such an
explanation over possible alternatives would then, in any case,
be arbitrary.
In conclusion, I must say that I believe that if I had been per-
mitted to examine the original material, I should have been able
to discover the natural explanation of the phenomenon.
The Galton Laboratory,
Rothamsted Experimental Station,
Harpenden, Herts.
References
W. Whately Carington. “ Experiments on the Paranormal Cogni-
,
tion of Drawings.” Proc. *S. P.7?., Part 162.
W. L. Stevens
260 [part 163]
W. Whately Carington and S. G. Soal. “ Experiments in Non-
Sensory Cognition.” Nature, 145, 389 (1940).
W. L. Stevens (1938). “ The Distribution of Entries in a Contin-
gency Table with Fixed Marginal Totals.” A nnals of Eugenics,
8, 238.
(1939). “ Tests of Significance for Extra-Sensory Perception
Data.” Psychological Review, 46, 142.
REPLY TO MR STEVENS’S CRITICISM
By Whately Cakington
It would seem that the malign enchantment of which the late Dr
Franklin Prince wrote so feelingly is still potent in our subject.
How else are we to account for the fact that a statistician of Mr
Stevens’s distinction writes ‘
null hypothesis ’
four times running
when he is not referring to a null hypothesis at all but to an assump-
tion underlying the method whereby the null hypothesis is tested?
This is, I fear, not a matter for argument, but merely for re-affirma-
tion ; the null hypothesis is that there is only a chance connection
between the originals used and the drawings produced, and the
improbability of this being true is all that the test of significance
tells us. The test itself does depend on the kind of independence
Mr Stevens discusses ;
but this is not part of the hypothesis, for there
might be this independence and yet the effects not due to chance,
or a measure of dependence and yet no more than chance at work.
In developing the argument Mr Stevens goes on to enunciate at
least one demonstrably false proposition. He says (para. 5),
“ the
things I draw may resemble each other more than they resemble
the things you draw,” and later “ . . . the null h\^othesis would be
invalidated if two drawings made by the same person are more
likely to ‘
resemble ’
each other than are two drawings made by
different persons ”. Even allowing for the fact that by ‘
null
hypothesis ’
Mr Stevens means “ methodological assumption ”, this
proposition is simply not true. If you make ten drawings,
A, B . . . I, J very skilfully in red ink and the cubist style, while
I make ten different drawings Q, R . . . Y, Z very badly in green
ink and the vorticist style, there are at least three respects in which
each of yours is more like the others of yours than it is like any of
mine, and vice versa. But, since, ex hypothesi, all 20 drawings are
different, the hits scored (if any) will all be on different originals
and will therefore be independent in Mr Stevens’s sense. As a
matter of fact, Mr Stevens does not define what he means by
“ dependent ” and “ independent ” in this context ;
but I take it
that “ dependence ” involves some factor tending to cause a perci-
pient who has been credited with one hit on a given original to be
further credited with another hit on the same original. The point
261
262 Wha tely Carington [part
is of some importance, for whereas there are more ways than one
in which tins might occur (obsession, practical joking, forgetfulness
on the part of the percipient, or aberrations on the part of the judge)
the result would always be the same, namely replication of hits on
the same original from a single set of drawings. Thus the somewhat
damaging suggestion in the opening sentences of paragraph 5, to
the effect that though Mr Stevens has only pointed out one source
of error there may be others left undetected, is erroneous.
In short, the perfectly good point that Mr Stevens is trying to
make is that we should not allow any one set of drawings to score
more than one hit on the same original. If we do, then the result
is mathematically indistinguishable from a plurality of percipients
independently scoring one hit each ;
and this, in whichever direction
it operated, would be misleading.
This is 100 per cent, sound criticism, and I wish I had thought of
it myself. Fortunately, the reniedy is simple
—“ dereplication ”, if
I may coin a word—and the same in all cases regardless of the
source of the error, while the effect, as might be expected, is small.
In the case of the “ Hindson All Entries ” data quoted by Mr
Stevens, elimination of replicate hits reduces the value of D/a only
from 4T66 to 3-803, leaving P a trifle less than 1 in 7,000, which is
still highly significant. In fact, this point, though perfectly valid
and a most acceptable contribution to technique, is in the nature
of a correction or fine adjustment and in no case invalidatory.
This leaves the position substantially unchanged, and we must now
turn to Mr Stevens’s much more interesting and highly ingenious
attack from the angle of interpreta tion. This is a minor masterpiece
of sophistry which both deserves and demands careful analysis.
It is not in dispute that even after the data have been duly
dereplicated the 5x5 table yields a liighly significant result ;
and
I should be the first to agree with Mr Stevens in saying that this
does not per se “ prove ” the occurrence of paranormal cognition.
Natural phenomena, indeed, are never “ proved ” to occur in the
sense that mathematical propositions may be proved to be true ;
they become established through familiarity, with greater or lesser
rapidity according to circumstances, through the devising of repeat-
aide experiments and an increasing understanding of the laws which
govern them.
But Mr Stevens is not content with anything like this ;
he
produces a superficially most plausible argument to show that the
facts are actually to a significant extent incompatible with the
“ telepathic ” hypothesis. He is quite right. They are significantly
163]
Reply to Mr Stevens's Criticism 263
incompatible with “ telepathy ” if, but only if, we accept his own
definition of “ telepathy Stripped of its obscuring embroideries
the argument runs, “ If telepathy occurs at all it must be of a
particular type, namely a substantially ‘
now or never ’
type, such
that a hit will be scored by its means only on one of the originals
used in the experiment in which the percipient was engaged and
not on one of any other experiment. This would inflate the fre-
quencies of the leading diagonal only. But other frequencies are
also significantly inflated. Therefore it is not this type of telepathy
that occurs. Therefore no telepathy occurs.”
The falsity of this logic, unless it be conceded that paranormal
cognition really yymst be of the now or never type if it is to occur
at all, is manifest as soon as the argument is stated in this form ;
but Mr Stevens is naturally not so crude as this. The trick is mainly
turned in the third sentence of paragraph eight, where he says
“ . . . it is a reasonable supposition that a subject picks up telepathic
ideas of the drawings of the experiment in which he participates,
and not of the drawings of the four experiments in which he does
not participate ”. Of course the supposition is reasonable enough,
and if it read “ . . .is more likely to pick up . . . etc.”, it would be
not only reasonable but true. But a reasonable supposition is one
thing and an established fact is quite another. If it were known
that paranormal cognition w^as exclusively of the now or never
type postulated by Mr Stevens, his inference that what is here
observed is due to something other than paranormal cognition would
be entirely justifiable ;
but as it is the conclusion is no more than
a piece of indifferently rationalised apriorism.
Mr Stevens himself seems to be a trifle uneasy, for in his concluding
paragraph he admits that there is no necessity for assuming that
paranormal cognition must give rise only to the particular effect
I was looking for when testing the leading diagonal. So far so good ;
but I think he is wrong in saying that I must abandon the diagonal
test and rely on the test of the whole table. I don’t much mind,
for this—as he points out—also gives a highly significant result,
though I should have thought that in so far as one happens to be
interested in the diagonal, the diagonal would be the thing to test.
But it is giving the whole argument away in a sad anticlimax to
complain that in that case “ the mode of operation of the telepathy
or clairvoyance . . . would indeed be very curious ”. We more
or less know that before we start, for otherwise there would be little
mystery by this time about the phenomenon : while there seems
no coercive reason "why it should take a form corresponding to
Mr Stevens’s preconceptions. On the other hand, I do not think
264 Whately Carington [part 163]
that anyone familiar with the qualitative literature of the subject
will be particularly surprised to find a measure of precognitive and
retrocognitive effects emerging.
What would have been curious, to the point of incredibility,
woidd have l)een to find a paranormal effect giving a significant
overall result for the whole Table, with the high and low cells
randomly dotted about the place or alternating like the squares of
a chess board. What we actually obtain, as explained in my
section on Displacement, is a straightforward effect with a diminish-
ing probability of occurrence before and after the event. If this
“ spread ” and diminishment had been spatial instead of temporal,
it would ])robably have been hailed as strong confirmatory evidence.
To oliject to what has actually been found suggests a somewhat
naive, non-relativistic attitude with something of what we might
call an Oedipus complex with respect to Father Time.
Mr Stevens’s concluding sentence (added after the above was
written) seems a somewhat unworthy red herring. The method and
procedure adopted have been described in great detail : if Mr
Stevens can find a flaw in either, well and good ;
if not, then differ-
ences of opinion as to particular judgements made by Mr Hindson
(which is all, so far as I can see, that scrutiny of the actual drawings
could lead to) are altogether irrelevant, as I have been at the utmost
pains to show. However, if Mr Stevens can indicate what kind of
systematic error he expects to find, compatible with the reported
facts, capable of invalidating the conclusions reached, and such as
could be made Ijy an uninformed judge, he is very welcome (as,
indeerl, I have already assured him) to examine the whole or any
part of the drawings or originals. Failing this, his point remains no
more than an unsupported expression of opinion.
w. w. c.
REVIEW
Extra-Sensory Perception after Sixty Years. By J. B. Rhine, J.
G. Pratt, C. E. Stuart and B. M. Smith, with J. A. Green-
wood. Pp. xiv-f 463, with 30 Tables, 21 Appendices, 6 Figures,
2 Graphs. Henry Holt & Co., New York, 1940. $2. 75.
With the doubtful exceptions of one or two of the early classics,
which are scarcely comparable, this is unquestionably the most
important book yet published in the field of Psychical Research and
Parapsychology. If it were not for the fact that these earlier works
to some extent prepared the ground, I would go further and say
that it is the only important book of the kind yet published. Cer-
tainly I know of no other which answers with anything like the
same completeness, so far as they can be answered, the manifold
objections, some reasonable but mostly not, which have been ad-
vanced against accepting ESP as a fact in nature. Only one strong-
hold of the critics is left unchallenged and unreduced, and the
strength of this is wholly illusory, as 1 shall indicate below. On the
other hand, a good deal of space is wasted in pricking bubbles which
ought never to have been blown, but the blame for this lies more with
the would-be critics of ESP than with the authors.
The book is divided into four Parts : I The (Question of the
Occurrence of ESP ;
II The Criticism and the Evidence ;
III The
Nature of ESP ;
IV The Present Situation. The first two and last
two of these naturally fall together, the former pair being the more
immediately important, and the latter (for many readers) the more
interesting. I shall concern myself mainly with the finst two.
The principal items here are a discussion of the mathematical
methods used, a survey of all quantitative work published between
1882 and 1939, a list of no less than thirty-five “ counter-hypotheses”
or possible objections, a more detailed discussion of six “ test
”
cases believed to meet all these objections, some account of the
general course of criticism, and the results of submitting the crucial
chapters to seven of the more eminent or more prominent critics.
Nothing is to be gained by recapitulating mathematical contro-
versies here. The methods used are now generally accepted, and
should never have been challenged except on such points of detail
26.5
266 Review [part
as the preferability of the “ matching ” to the “ binomial ” hypo-
thesis, which is of importance only in a few borderline cases and for
exact work of informative as opj^osed to demonstrative character.
Most of the objections raised, e.g., Kellogg’s contention that the
observed instead of the theoretical variance should be used, seem to
have arisen from a failure to understand the nature and purpose of
tests of significance.
The collection of previously published material has been done
with very great care and completeness. There are 145 items listed
in Table 29 of Aj^pendix 17, and many of these are classified under
various headings in other Tables in the Text. I should be surprised
if anything worth mentioning had been omitted, and this feature
alone will make the book of great value to students as a work of
reference. Similarly, the list of counter-hypotheses ranges from the
foolish suggestion that the results reported may be due to chance,
through various not unreasonable criticism, to the preposterous
notion that ESP is contrary to science and impossible anyway.
Again, I think there can be no doubt that every worth-while objec-
tion has been included together with many that are worthless.
All this testifies eloquently to the zeal, sincerity and thoroughness
of the authors, but I am not sure that they have adopted the best
policy in the presenting of their case. It does not seem to me un-
equivocally clear from the treatment that they have fully grasped
the great principle that ten leaky buckets will not hold water longer
than one leaky bucket and that this is true even if the leaks are in
different places. Although the great number of experiments reported
as favoural^le to ESP may constitute a strong prima facie case for
further investigation, rigid demonstration cannot be advanced by
claiming that experiment A excludes counter-hypothesis X, and
that experiment B excludes counter-hypothesis Y, if Y is not
excluded by A or X by B. It would, of course, be very strange if it
ju.st so happened that whenever an experiment was water-tight in
oire respect it was leaky in another ;
and this might be made the
basis of a special argument of some cogency. In the absence of this,
I should have preferred to see a few of these early cases {e.g., Usher
and Burt, Groningen, Estabrooks) picked out and treated in more
detail as virtually water-tight, and the others marshalled as no
more than a part of a general attack on the apriorist position.
It seems to me that the authors, in common with many others
including myself, have all too long and all too tamely submitted to
the dogma that ESP is “ inherently ” or “ antecedently ” improb-
able. I doubt whether this dogma is more than a fear-promoted
bluff, and it is certainly high time that someone led a spirited on-
163 ]
Review 267
slaught against it. We might well begin by asking those who pro-
pound it to give us an estimate of the probability of the occurrence
of ESP and to tell us how they arrived at it : I think it would be
found that they are unable to do so and would quickly take refuge
in evasive ambiguities or ad hominem arguments. If the dogma
means that observations made antecedent to a given experiment
or situation indicate that the probability of ESP occurring in that
experiment or situation is small, the question is begged ;
for any
such proposition can only summarise accumulated experience re-
garding the relative frequencies of occurrence of ESP in situations
of that type and in others ;
and this implies the, at least, occasional
occurrence of ESP. But if the dogma is intended to assert that
ESP is inherently impossible, then it is not concerned with proba-
bility at all, except in that purely formal sense in which it may be
said that the probability of anyone drawing a circular square is
zero, and the word should not be introduced. In this case it is for
the critics to show, as they have never attempted to do, that the
alleged phenomena of ESP either involve a contradiction in terms
or are formally incompatible with established facts of physical
science. But physical science and parapsychology operate in fields
which, though presumably coterminous, are certainly not co-
extensive, just as is true of the fields of magnetism and mechanics.
Physical science has abstracted from the totality of possible ob-
servables those only which are measurable in terms of the gram,
the centimetre and the second ;
and in thus abstracting it has auto-
matically restricted itself to observables of that kind, and its “ laws
”
consist of statements of relations between these. It is difficult to
see how such statements can jjossibly be formally incompatible with
statements about states of mind and cognitive relations of which
the subject-matter is largely or wholly different. Finally, if critics
mean that ESP is contrary to experience, they can only justify their
allegation by tacitly defining ESP in advance in such a way as to
make it so, for example as “ a faculty which would enable one to
read all the books in a library simultaneously and from a distance ” ;
but this is too base and too feeble to be worth powder and shot.
The digression seems justified because failure to realise the ex-
treme weakness of the apriorist position is liable to make people
think it necessary to produce very high levels of significance in
order to outweigh the (actually non-existent) “ antecedent im-
probability” so gratuitously postulated by their opponents. This
distracts attention from the only function of tests of significance,
namely to tell us whether the effects observed are likely to be due
to chance deviations from the null hypothesis tested.
268 Review [part !
i
With the ajjriorist and mathematical objections out of the way, j
the only alternatives left worth mentioning are those involving the '
j
perception of sensory cues ;
for hypotheses about rational inference |
and clerical errors will not bear examination, while that of extensive
and collusory fraud has yet to be responsibly suggested.
Now there was a time when many of us were gravely perturbed
at the discovery that the standard ESP cards, as sold to the public
and used in most of the reported experiments, could be read from i
the back in suitable lights, and this “ alarm and despondency
”
was justified by the fact that many of the early experiments of this
kind were not described in sufficient detail to assure us that this
possibility had been recognised and eliminated. ^ But such misgivings
are now altogether out of date, as Dr Lemmon very fairly insists
(p. 222), for most recent work has been done with the cards so screened
that the percipient cannot see them at all. Certainly nothing of the
kind can have arisen in any of the six selected cases cited.
These cases are all of very high quality, particularly—to my own
mind—the Pratt-Woodruff, Warner, and Pierce-Pratt experiments,
which I shovdd regard as to all intents and purposes flawless ;
but :
1 think it a pity that full experimental details from the original
reports were not repeated in the text. Not every reader will have
easy access to the originals, while the form in which they are dealt
with makes it very difficult to reconstruct just what happened.
The principal fault of the whole work lies in the direction of pro-
testing too much—of trying to pile every scrap of evidence and every '
shred of argument into the scale, instead of cutting out as much i
rubbish as possible and relying on the high quality of what remains.
Not all critics are wmrth answering, and to thunder in pursuit of
every paltry red herring drawn across the trail does not really
add to the strength of the case. In Churchillian phrase, “ Why
should we stop to hurl a stone at every cur that yaps?
”
Turning to the second half of the book, dealing with the nature of
ICSP, future developments, and cognate matters, I have space to
comment on only one point. Foster, developing a suggestion due
to Dr Thouless, has proposed the use of a quantity called the ESP
Quotient, which is the percentage of hits most probably made by
ESP alone apart from those due to chance ;
he also proposes to use
^ It seems only fair to Dr Rhine and his colleagues to mention here the
circumstances described on p. 193, where it is explained that “ Careful specifi-
cations and warnings to the printers resulted in adequate proof sheets. The
warping ” (be., the shrinkage which makes reading from the back possible)
“ apparently occurred after the cards were cut and stored ”. This would
appear to exonerate those concerned from the otherwise not unreasonable
charge of incompetence.
163]
Review 269
this to investigate the kind of psychological process involved in
certain ESP situations. In particular ; In the technique known as
Open Matching the subject is required to match a pack of ESP
cards against five “ key ” cards (one of each type) which are exposed
face upward in front of him ;
in Blind Matching, the key cards are
face down. Thus in the second technique the percipient has to
cognise by ESP both the key card and the cards to be matched as
compared with the latter only, in the first. Quoting from p. 316 :
“ The simplest supposition would be that when confronted with the
task in Blind Matching (a) two cards are to be matched ; (6) one
card is perceived ;
(c) the other card is perceived ;
(d) the two are
identified as similar. This is termed by Foster a circumferential func-
tion, implying a going around the long way. Contrasted to this is the
diametric function . . . ,
which assumes that the perceptual act cuts
across from (a) to (d) .. . making a single act of the perception of
likeness.” It is then shown that, in the first case, the fraction repre-
senting the ESP Quotient wmidd have to be squared in order to
calculate the expectation of successes due to ESP, while in the
second it would not. This is then used as the basis of an attempt
to ascertain which hypothesis is correct. It is found (p. 317) that
“ ... on the whole the results clearly fall between the twm extremes
expected on the basis of the two hypotheses considered. In no
series did [the relevant figures] fall to the level supposed by the
hypothesis that the elements are separately perceived (circum-
ferential function) and the relations established by a separate act.”
But surely Blind Matching is precisely the same as Open Matching,
from this point of view, once the percipient has made up his mind
which key card is which ;
if so, the circumferential process woidd only
have a chance of operating, if at all, during some early period of
indecision and could scarcely pull the figures down to the required
level. To test the point properly it would, I think, be necessary to
ask the subject to indicate which pairs of cards were similar in two
face-down packs, or something very like this. But the idea is
promising and might well repay further research. Incidentally, it
is interesting to note that the various quotients reported, though
ranging from as high as 17-7 to as low as T3, appear to average at
much the same value (round about 6) as the analogous figures
derivable from my own experiments with drawings ;
but this is
very provisional and not to be taken too seriously.
A few miscellaneous points : The book is well produced, excel-
lently printed, and provided with a Glossary, two good Indexes and
an admirable list of 361 References ;
but its utility and convenience
Review
270 [part 163]
would be enormously increased by the addition of a list of Tables,
preferably showing the nature of each.
The Appendices, which are mainly mathematical, present a
variety of useful formulae, methods and Tables ;
but they also
contain a few slips. In Ajjpendix 3, it is implied that the best
estimate, of the variance of N qiiantities is obtained by dividing
the sum of the squares of their differences from their mean by N ;
the divisor should be N - 1, otherwise the variance of a single quantity
would be computed as zero, whereas it is indeterminate for lack of
sufficient data. Table 25 of App. 4 has three trivial errors in the last
column ;
the figures 9-82, 4-06, 4-06 should read 9-80, 4-05, 4-05, and
the total should be 35-80 instead of 35-84. Appendix 7 is jjerfectly
sound as it stands, but would it not be simpler to compute with
one degree of freedom from a 2 x 2 table of hits and misses under the
two conditions? In Appendix 9 (Stevens’s Matching formulae) the
extreme case suggested of 25 circles ])resented and 25 circles called
would lead to expected and observed numbers of hits both equal to
25, and thence to D/s = 0/0 ;
so that P is not 1 as stated but indeter-
minate.
To sum u]) : The book, though not wholly free from defects,
mainly tactical and of no real importance, is a product of which its
authors may well be proud. It does not “ prove ” the occurrence of
ESP as the books of Euclid prove propositions about triangles ;
but
natural phenomena are insusceptible of that kind of proof. It does
not produce evidence overwhelmingly outweighing the antecedent
improbabilities of the apriorists ;
and that is because there are no
such improbabilities to outweigh. But it does state a case enor-
moizsly stronger than that on which murderers are usually convicted
and hanged. All reasonable ]zeople will feel, I think, that ESP is
now well rooted and likely to grow apace. Doubtless a few diehards
will still hold out ;
but who cares about a few diehards more or less
—
provided they die?
w. w. c.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 164
HENRI BERGSON
Although M. Bergson died only a few months ago, he will be re-
membered as the philosopher of the period 1890-1914. All his main
contributions to Philosophy were made during those years. (It is
true that he published a full-length work, Les deux sources de la
morale et de la religion, as recently as 1932, but it is no more than
an interesting afterthought.) Those were also the years of his
greatest influence and reputation. That influence extended far
beyond the narrow circle of professional philosophers. His doctrine
of “ lived duration ”, as op^^osed to the conceptual and spatialised
time of Physics, did much to determine the psychological method
of Proust’s novels ;
and the very peculiar literary style adopted by
that writer—so different from Bergson’s own—was intended, appar-
ently, to reproduce the flowing character of the Bergsonian stream
of consciousness, in which every part interpenetrates every other.
But Bergson’s thought had more imj^ortant repercussions than this.
His sharp antithesis between intelligence on the one hand, instinct
and intuition on the other ;
his doctrine that intelligence is only a
practical tool {homo sapiens, he says, should rather be described
as homo faber) ;
whereas instinct and intuition, which is instinct
become reflective, put us into touch with ultimate reahty ;
his
vitalistic metaphysics, which made the life-force ”, Velan vital,
more fundamental than either matter or consciousness as we com-
monly understand them : all these have played their part in shaping
those irrationalist or anti-rationalist movements of our own time
which have exalted action, and even violence, as an end in itself,
and have overthrown, perhaps for ever, the old bourgeois-liberal
civilisation of the European continent. (It is fortunate perhaps
R
272 H. H. Price [part
that the English-speaking peoples do not take Philosophy so ’
seriously.) On the other hand, he also undermined the prestige of i
Materialistic Positivism, and so paved the way for that revival of
Intellectual Catholicism which is so important a feature of contem-
porary France. It is not for nothing that his disciple, M. Jacques |
Chevalier, holds office in the Vichy government, and was for a time ^
its Minister of Education.
But while these effects of Bergson’s thought have been showing
themselves upon the stage of w'orld-history, his reputation among
professional philosophers has steadily declined ;
and outside his own
country, the works which astonished the Edwardian age are nowa-
days rarely opened, and still more rarely discussed. He is classed
with “ the metaphysicians ”, and metaphysics of any sort is now
very much under the weather. It seems to me, however, that this
dechne is quite unjustified. There are fashions in Philosophy, as in :
'
other things, and some day he will come into his own again. We
must admit, I think, that the astonishing brilliance of his style— :
^
and few, even among French writers, have shown a greater stylistic 1
mastery—has on occasions betrayed him. It has enabled him, some- i
times, to distract the reader’s attention with a chain of dazzhng
images where solid argument is called for, and to “ get away with
”
the substitute, where a more humdrum writer would never have
succeeded. This applies particularly to the more speculative parts
'
of UEvolution Crmtrice, which both for good and for ill is the most !
metaphysical of all his writings. It is also true that in the epistemo- i
logical parts of his work he insists upon using a peculiarly clumsy i
and ambiguous technical terminology (inherited from the French
philosophers of the nineteenth century), which often obscures his .
meaning ;
though all the time he is trying to break through the '
muddles and false problems which that very terminology had engen- :
dered. It may well be true, again, that he failed to understand the
mathematical theory of continuity, as Lord Russell and others have
argued, and that the antithesis which he sets up between the ;
“ spatialised time ” of Physics and the “ real duration ” characteristic ^
of life and consciousness is vitiated to some extent by this failure. _=
But when all these defects have been duly taken into account, it
’
will be found, I believe, that a very solid residuum remains. Some i
day the problems which he posed, and the startlingly original solu- i'
tions he suggested for them, will have to be considered again. The
relation of life and consciousness to the physical universe, the main j
theme of all his major works, is not a topic which the human mind ;
can permanently neglect. *
It follows from what I have said that the time for a balanced
164] Henri Bergson 273
estimate of Bergson's thought has not yet come. But it does not
follow that ill the meanwhile we had better refrain from reading
him. Certainly we in this Society should not refrain from doing so.
It is clear that the main themes of his philosophy lie very near to
the sphere of our special interest. Indeed the theme of one of his
most unportaut works, Matm'e et Memoire,^ lies right in the centre.
For its main purpose is to propound a new and revolutionary theory
of the relation between mind and brain. We are therefore not sur-
prised to find that some of the most interesting passages in his
Presidential Address to the Society in 1913 ^ are concerned with
restating the main conclusions of that book, in such a way as to bring
out their bearings upon the problems of Psychical Research. I will
now try to smnmarise liis theory of the relation of mind and brain,
illustrating my summary by quotations from the Presidential Address.
Bergson’s fundamental idea is that the brain is the organ of actiori.
This is its primary function, in relation to which all its activities
have to be understood. In perception, for instance, its function is
to select a certain part of the external world as the object of our
consciousness, shutting out all the rest ;
and this selection is made
for rigorously practical ends. The normal healthy man perceives
so much of the world as he can act uj^on, and he perceives it as a
possible subject-matter for action ;
he imposes upon its “ real
extensity ” a framework of homogeneous and infinitely divisible
space, so that every object, and even every living being, appears
to him as something in principle decomposable into separate parts,
which he may re-combine into new forms to suit his practical ends.
The mechanistic interpretation of Nature is simply an extension of
this instinctive view of homo faber, and so itself has a biological
basis. Perception, then, is primarily a practical not a theoretical
function ;
it exists for the sake of action, not for the sake of know-
ledge. Nevertheless, Bergson holds that the range of unconscious
perception is probably far wider than this : each of us perceives
“ virtually ” far more than he perceives actually. When our “ atten-
tion to life ” lapses for any reason, and the barrier imposed by the
brain is weakened, some of those “ virtual ” perceptions may be
able to pass the threshold of consciousness, and telepathy or clair-
voyance may occur. ^
His view about memory is similar. He begins by distinguishing
1 First edition 1896. There is an English translation. Matter and Memory,
published by Allen and Unwin, with a special introduction by Bergson himself.
^Proceedings, Vol. XXVI (1912-13), pp. 462-479.
^ Cf Proceedings, Vol. XXVI, p. 475. Enghsh translation, Vol. XXVII,
pp. 157-175.
.1
274 H. H. Price [part i
t
liabit-menioiy or rote-memory from memory proper. Habit- I
memory is certainly a function of the Innin. But, equally certainly, (
it is not in the strict sense memory at all.
When I repeat a stanza of Tennyson by rote, I am not recalling
anything in my past (for exainple, the first occasion when I read
that particular stanza) ;
I am simply performing an habitual action.
|
On the other hand, memory proper, the retaining and recollecting
|
of past experiences, is not dependent on the brain at all. It is a I
purely psychical frmction ;
and it is j^robable that the whole of our i
past is unconsciously retained, though only a small part of it can ;
normally be recalled. We must not suppose that cerebral traces, j
corresponding somehow to ]?ast experiences, are physically stored '
up somewhere in our heads. So far is the brain from being the organ i
of memory, that its function is rather to prevent us from recalling :
too much. Just as it prevents us from perceiving what would be -
biologically useless to us, so here ;
it allows us to recall only that |
particular bit of our past which is relevant to our present practical
situation, and shuts out all the rest from our consciousness. At ,
least, all the rest is shut out from the consciousness of the normal
healthy man. But if our bodily mechanism is enfeebled or deranged,
we shall find that all sorts of useless memories will come flocking in.
Indeed, according to Bergson, this is precisely what happens to all
of us in dreams, when our practical activities are in abeyance. It
is from this point of view that he approaches certain disorders of
memory, notably aphasia and word-blindness. Since such disorders
can be correlated with precisely localised injuries to the brain, they
have been thought to provide direct evidence for the cerebral trace
theory of memory. Bergson exj^lains the facts differently. It is
,
not that the memories themselves have been destroyed. It is merely
that the connection between memory and action has been cut at a
certain point, and this prevents certain of our memories from
reaching consciousness. The damage to the brain prevents a certain ,
class of actions from occurring ;
and then the particular memories <
which would have been relevant to those actions cannot rise above
j
the threshold, though they are still retained in the unconscious.
The part played by the brain in thinking is explained on sunilar
lines. According to scientific orthodoxy, every act of thought has
its corresponding brain-state ;
and if a sufficiently accomplished ;
physiologist could inspect the jjhysico-chemical processes which are
going on in my brain while I am thinking, he would be able to infer
every detail of my train of thought. Bergson’s view is very different. !
He holds that the role of the brain in thinking is only to produce I
movements and bodily attitudes which “ act out ” what the mind
164] Henri Bergson 275
thinks
—“ (\\iijouent ce que I’esprit pe-nse
” ^
The brain in this con-
nection is “an organ of pantomime ”—in the etymological sense of
the word “ pantomime ” (perhaps “ dmnb-show ” wonld be a better
rendering). The imaginary physiologist who looked into my brain
could infer very little about my train of thought. He could only
discover so much of it as is expressible in gestures, postures, and
bodily movements, “ what the psychical state contains in the way
of action, either actually in process of accomplishment or merely
nascent He would be like a man who observes the comings and
goings of the players on the stage, without being able to hear a word
they say : or like a deaf man at an orchestra who can only see the
gesticulations of the conductor. “ Accordingly an examination of
the interior of the brain would reveal nothing of mental processes
strictly so called. The sole business of the brain, ajjart from its
sensory functions, is to mime the mental life.” ^ On the other hand
this mimetic function is of the utmost biological importance. With-
out a brain to ensure that our thoughts are “ mimed ” by bodily
dumb-show, we could not “ insert ourselves in reality ” ;
we could
not respond to or cope with our physical environment. In short,
it is this “ organ of pantomime ” which makes intelligent action
possible. “ Though consciousness is not a function of the brain,
at any rate the brain keeps our consciousness fixed upon the world
in which we live ;
it is the organ of attention to life.” And again :
“ To orientate our thought towards action, to induce it to prepare
the act which circumstances require : that is the task for which
our brain is made.” ^
But, as has already been made clear, the very fact that the brain
is the organ of action also makes it an organ of limitation. By
keejring our nose firmly fixed u2
:»on the grindstone, it prevents us
from noticing a number of interesting but “ useless ” things. The
vast panorama of our past is shut out from our view, except for
that little corner which is relevant to our action at the moment
;
and for all we can tell, a whole world of extra-sensory perceptions
is likewise prevented from rising above the threshold of conscious-
ness, though jDresent to the mind in a “ virtual ” or unconscious
state. It is therefore not at all siuq:)rising if some of those extra-
sensory percej3tions should find their way into our consciousness,
when “ attention to fife ” is impaired or deliberately suspended.
Such is Bergson’s theory of the relation of imnd and brain, in
very brief outline. It seems clear that if this theory be true, we
1 Proceedings, Vol. XXVI, p. 472. Bergson’s italics.
^ Ibid., p. 472. ® Ibid., p. 473. My italics. * Ibid., jj. 473.
276 H. H. Price [part 164
must conclude tliat survival is more likely than not. In the Presi- i
dential Address Bergson explicitly says so ;
^ though he does not i
discuss the question in Matih'e et Memoire itself. For according to i|
his theory, there is by no means a one-one correspondence between i
brain processes and mental processes ;
the mental life of the
embodied human 2)ersonality is far wider than its cerebral life.
Memory—that is, memory proper as distinct from rote-memory
—
has no cerebral correlate at all ;
nor has extra-sensory perception ; |
while thought only has a cerebral correlate in so far as it is expres-
sible in “ pantomimic ” actions. Accordingly “ the burden of proof >
will fall ujron the man who denies survival, rather than upon the »!
man who affirms it
What sort, of survival Bergson Avould offer us is another question,
upon which he does not particidarise. I suppose it would be an
extreme form of what lie calls “ life on the jilane of dream with
all the memories of our past per]ietually spread out before our
consciousness, diversified perhaps by large closes of extra-sensory
perception.
H. H. Price.
1 Proceed.ings, Vol. XXVI, p. 476.
^ Same jiage. ® Cf. Matiere et Memoire, ch. 3.
EXPERIMENTS ON THE PARANORMAL COGNITION
OF DRAWINGS
By Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc.
(Perrott Student in Psychical Research, 1940)
A. Experiment VI :
‘
Known ’
versus ‘
Unknown ’
Originals
ABSTRACT : Fifty originals, randomly selected from a larger list,
were drawn by a third party and enclosed in envelopes. From these
fifty envelopes ten were taken at random for use in the experiment.
These ten, divided into two groups of five each, were put up as
targets for the percipients, first in their closed (‘ unknown ’) state
and later after they had been opened and copied by the experimenter.
The drawings received were suitably randomised and were scored
by the experimenter against the ten working originals. They were
later scored against the whole fifty originals from which these ten
had been taken by an independent judge. Neither scoring shows any
appreciable advantage for the known as compared with the unknown
condition.
1. Introductory : So soon as we have satisfied ourselves to a
reasonable degree of assurance, such as I venture to believe has
been afforded by the experiments already described,^ that some
kind of paranormal cognition occurs at all, a number of questions
immediafely arise as to the nature and modus operandi of the
phenomenon.
One of the most important of these is whether, or to what extent,
knowledge of the original (or, more generally, of the object to be
cognised) in the mind of the experimenter, or of some person con-
nected with the experiment, is essential to the process involved.
Somewhat roughly and colloquially speaking, this is equivalent to
the question of whether the phenomenon is ‘
telepathic ’
or ‘
clair-
voyant ’
in character, or perhaps a mixture of both ;
but I think
it would be injudicious to commit ourselves at the present stage to
^ Proc. S.P.R., Part 162, Vol. XLVI, June 1940. This paper may be referred
to as PNC.D., I, for short. The group of experiments numbered I to TV B
described therein wiU henceforward be known as Experiments I to V respec-
tively, unless otherwise indicated.
278 Whafely Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
using these words as more than temporary conveniences of locution.
It is not a question of deciding into which of two known and estab-
lished categories a newly observed phenomenon falls, as one might
seek to classify an unfamiliar zoological specimen. Categories can
only be established after the examination of a large numlDer of
specimens, not before, whereas at present we are barely sure that
there are any specimens to be examined at all. Thus, while it is
legitimate enough to reflect that paranormal cognition may be of
two types, in one of which there is interaction of two or more minds
(telejrathy), and in the other between a mind or minds and a material
object (clairvoyance), it would be dangerous to allow ourselves to
sujopose that the fact of a given example of the phenomenon appear- j'’
ing to be of the one type or the other necessarily carries with it any
implications l)eyond the liare fact stated.
The foregoing, however, in no wise diminishes the importance of
the point at issue, and I decided at an early stage to make some
attempt to throw light upon it so soon as I had completed the pre-
liminary experiments reported in my first paper.
I may say at once that the results of this experiment are not in
themselves conclusive, though I think we shall be able to form a
fairly well founded opinion when they have been considered in the |
context of the other work. For the purposes of the present dis- i
cussion, however, I shall confine myself to the internal evidence
which the experiment was designed to yield. '
j
2. General Tecimique: Exceq)t that some of the originals^ used j
were in closed envelopes and were unknown to me at the time, the I
technique employed was substantially identical, in its general fea-
tures, with that of Ex])eriments I to V. That is to say, the originals
were, in every case, ]uit up in my study at or before 7.0 p.m. and
were taken down at about 9.30 a.m. the next morning. The same
precautions as regards curtaining, etc., were taken, and the chance
of any ])ercipient obtaining knowledge of any original by sensory,
means may be regarded as altogether negligible. <
The drawing books issued to percipients were jrrecisely similar to
those used in the earlier experiments, so far as their pages were
concerned. Ajiart from dates, etc., the only change worth men-
tioning in the instructions printed on the covers consisted in the
addition of two items, viz. :
(i)
“ Do not draw vague scenes, elaborate interiors or geo-
metrical diagrams.”
1 For terminology throughout, unless otherwise indicated, see my first paper 1
referred to above.
164]
Exjieriments on Paranormal Cognition of Dratvings 279
j
(ii)
“ If your drawing is at all ambiguous, please say what
I
it is meant to Ije.”
The object of these additions was to avoid ambiguities and to
increase the proportion of drawings which could be scored with
reasonable confidence. I have the very strong imjiression, though
it is scarcely practicable to demonstrate its correctness rigidly, that
the desired effect was produced.
3. Preparation of the Originals : The object of the experiment, as
already implied, was to ascertain v/hether knowledge of the original
in the mind of the experimenter (myself) was necessary or advan-
tageous to the successful functioning of the percipients. It was
therefore necessary that I should be ignorant of at least some of the
originals during at least part of the experiment. Accordingly, I
clearly could not j^repare them all myself, and there seemed nothing
to be gained, but rather the contrary, in preparing some myself and
I enlisting the services of someone else for the others.
I also felt it undesirable that originals which had lieen used in
the first group of experiments should l:)e used again, and this pre-
cluded me from giving some third party a free hand in selecting
I
subjects or illustrations at random from a dictionary, as I myself
1 had done in the first instance.
,
Moreover, I had in mind the possibility that knowledge of
!
originals in the mind of anyone connected with the experiment,
even at one remove, so to speak, might have some influence on the
results ;
and I was accordingly anxious, in order to minimise this,
(a) that whoever drew the originals should not know what had been
used in the earlier experiments, and {h) that he or she should not
know just which particular originals were lieing used in this.
To meet these requirements I adopted the following plan ;
I made out a list of 216 possible subjects for illustration, arranged
in six blocks of six columns and six rows, avoiding subjects which
had already been used or others very like or closely associated with
them, but otherwise selecting in a more or less haphazard manner.^
This list I sent to my friend Mrs Aletta Lewis, who is a professional
artist and had most kindly consented to help in the matter, and
asked her to select and illustrate fifty of the sid^jects mentioned.
The selection was done by throwing three dice fifty times and taking,
1 It may be worth noting that it is not nearly so easy as most people seem
to suppose to find a really large number of readily illustrable, clearly dis-
tinguishable and widely famihar subjects for originals. I went through the
whole of a small pocket dictionary fairly systematically and then had to do
an appreciable amount of thhiking before I found enough words for my
jDurpose which fulfilled all requirements.
280 Whately Carington, M.A., 31. Sc. [part
I
in each case, the word appearing in the block, column and row
|
of the list indicated by the numbers so obtained, using any suitable 1
convention as to which should be associated with which die. I do i
not now think that this was any better, but probably somewhat jij
worse, than the simpler plan of writing some large number of suit-
j
able words on separate shps of paper, enclosing these in a like |
number of envelopes, shuffling the envelopes and instructing the
artist to take out fifty at random.^ However, it served the purpose
for wdiich it was intended, namely that of securing a substantially
random sample from the initial list.
These fifty words were illustrated by Mrs Lewis, on sheets taken
|
from surplus drawing books, in precisely the same manner (though '
naturally with fax greater technical skill) as had been those selected
from the dictionary by me for use in the first five experiments.
That is to say, they were illustrated by simple line drawings executed
in Indian ink on drawing-book sheets, as descrilied in my first paper,
and each had the name of the represented object written on it in
Roman letters about 1" to f" high.
Each of these potential originals was placed by Mrs Lewis between
the leaves of an ordinary double sheet of foolscap paper, and enclosed
in a 14" by 9" envelope. It may be noted here that the foolscap
sheet and the envelope were not, between them, opaque in any
strict sense of the term. That is to say, it would have been easy
enough, as I knew from previous experiment, to determine the
nature of the enclosed drawing by holding the envelope against a
strong light. But I had, of course, no temptation in this direction,
for to have done so would have been to risk vitiating the whole
ex])eriment by giving me knowledge of originals which it was
essential for me not to have. The sheet of foolscap was only an
additional, and in practice a superfluous, precaution against my
inadvertently acquiring knowledge of the originals despite the pro-
tection of the envelopes.
These fifty envelopes were sent by Mrs Lewis direct to Dr E. J.
Dingwall, to whom I must again express my indebtedness, and were
thoroughly shuffled by us jointly, after which ten were drawn at
random, numbered 1 to 10, and used as originals in this experiment.
As explained in my first paper, these ten were later returned to the
remaining forty, after they had been used, and the whole fifty were
employed as pseudo-originals for the Control Marking carried out
liy Mr SaltUiUrsli.^
The result of all this was that I myself knew nothing whatever,
^ I adopted this latter procedure in Expt. VII, q.v.
^ Loc. cit. p. 112.
164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 281
at this stage, al:>out the selected teu, except that they must be some
ten from my list of 216 possibilities. Sirs Lewis knew, in one sense,
even less ;
for, although she was aware of the general character of
the work on which I was engaged, she did not know the precise
nature of the experiment in which her cbawings were to be employed,
or just when it would take place, or how many of them would be
used. And even if she had known all these things, she could not
have known which ten originals would be chosen from the fifty she
had prepared. Thus the possibility of normal leakage from this
source may be wholly disregarded, especially as Mrs Lewis did not
know at all what percipients would be taking part. As regards the
possibility of paranormal influence from her mind, it is to be noted
that any effect which this might have would necessarily be spread
over the whole fifty originals she had prepared and not concentrated
on those actually used, still less on those iised in any particular
period of the experiment. Note also, with a view to possible
developments to be discussed at a later stage, that she could hardly
be regarded as having strongly associated the originals with the
experiiy.ent, because she had no direct experience of the latter,
but only the sketchiest conversational account from me of the kind
of work I had been doing.
The ten originals actually selected proved to be, in alphabetical
order : Book, Bow (tie, not archery). Chopper (drawn more as a
hatchet). Cigar, Coat (no wearer shown). House (conventional).
Lamp (old-fashioned oil table lamp vdth glass chimney, no shade),
Pehcan, Euler (student’s type footrule). Teapot.
T may say here that the forty envelopes not used, together with
the fifty originals of the earlier experiments, and such of the ten
selected envelopes of this experiment as had not been opened, were
removed from my study and placed during the period of the experi-
ment at the bottom of a wardrobe trunk in an adjoining room.
After any one of the ten selected envelopes had been opened and
its contained original used, the latter was locked up in the steel box
referred to in my first paper.
4. Arrangement of the Experiment
:
It is not nearly so easy as
might be imagined to devise a satisfactory experiment of this type.
On the face of it, the obvious plan would be to put up the ten
originals first in their envelopes (i.e. with their nature unknown to
the experimenter) and then again, perhaps in a different order,
after they had been opened by him. If we obtained a significantly
higher proportion of hits under the second conditions than under
the first, we should tend to conclude that the experimenter’s know-
ledge of the originals favoured the process of cognition. But such
282 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
a plau has certain serious defects. In the first place, percipients
might become bored or fatigued in the course of the work, and this
would tend to mask the. kind of effect just mentioned ;
or they
might, oppositely, improve with practice, which would tend to
enhance or even spuriously generate it. Apart from this, it is at
least possible that many would hesitate to draw the same thing
twice ;
and this, assuming that clairvoyance were operative, would
tend to favour the ‘
closed ’
condition as compared with the ‘
open ’.
Moreover, a test consisting of twenty consecutive trials is longer
than I should care to ask most percipients to undertake, and longer,
I fancy, than most would complete even if they consented to start.
This ol:)jection also applies to any scheme for alternating the ten
closed and unknown originals with ten known originals selected in
the same way as those of the earlier experiments. Besides, the two
series would be bound to have different popularities, and this would
give one of them an advantage over the other of which it would be
impossible to determine the magnitude.
There is also the point that once an original is known it cannot,
for the same experimenter, be made ‘
unknown ’
again, and this fact
introduces certain restrictions of its own.
Finally, l)ut in some ways most important of all, it is imperative
that drawings compared from the point of view of whether the
originals at which they were aimed were open or closed {i.e. known
or unknown) should be of equal lateness in the series drawn by the
percipients. To illustrate simply the point involved, let us suppose
that we put up five originals, first in closed envelopes (unknown)
and then after they have been opened (known) on ten successive
evenings, and ask a grouj) of percipients to attempt to ‘
reproduce
’
them. Suppose also that these five drawings represented Astrolabe,
Oka2:ii, Xylophone, Platypus and Bistoury. I think it will be
generally agreed that, assuming chance alone to be operative, these
objects, if drawn at all, would probably be drawn late in the series
rather than early. If so, examination of the drawings would
falsely suggest that the known condition was advantageous ;
and
an opposite effect might l)e jwoduced if the originals were, let us say,
Tree, House, Table, Chair and Boat. The point, however, is not
that very common or ‘ popular ’
objects are necessarily drawn early
in a series of ten, or vice versa, but that it is quite unsafe to assume
that objects are equally likely to be drawn in any position. On the
contrary, we may be fairly sure that of any two originals one will
tend to be drawn on the average earlier than the other ;
and that
the same will be true of any two groups of five originals such as
were used, as will be seen below, in this experiment.
164] Exjjemnenf.s on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 283
To meet these various considerations I decided that it would be
necessary to use ten originals divided into two groups, to divifle
my percipients also into two categories, to arrange for each category
to aim at both groups of originals and for each to aim at one group
closed and at the other open. The two groups of five originals are
referred to for convenience as X and Y, and the two categories of
percipients as A and B. It should be noted that although, as in the
earlier experiments, percipients were necessarily grouped, for the
most part, in the geographical sense, nearly all these geographical
groups included percipients of both categories, and that there was
no systematic arrangement as to which should be A and which B.
Thus each category was just as fair a sample as the other and there
is no reason at all to suppose that either possessed or displayed
proclivities which the other lacked.
I am much indebted to Dr R. H. Thouless for helj)
on the final arrangement, which was as follows :
in decidinj
Period Occasions Percipients Originals Condition
1 1 to 5 A 1 to 5, alias X Closed
2 6 „ 10 B 1 „ 5 „ X Open
3 11 „ 15 B 6 „ 10 „ Y Closed
4 16 „ 20 A 6 „ 10 „ Y Open
The originals actually used on the various evenings of the experi-
ment are given below :
Period Date Original Condition
1 Xov. 14, 1939 Cigar Closed
15 Book
16 Bow J f
17 Ruler J )
18 Lamp
2 19 Book Open
20 Bow > J
21 Ruler J >
22 Cigar 99
23 Lamp 9 9
3 24 House Closed
25 Chopper 9)
26 Pelican 99
27 Teapot 99
28 Coat 99
4 29 House Open
30 Pehcan 99
Dec. 1 Teapot 9 9
2 Coat 99
3 Chopper 99
284 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
It will be seen from the foregoing that this arrangement involved
a twenty-day experiment for the experimenter, but only ten for
each percipient. Percipients in category A, however, had to do five
evenings’ work, then stop for ten evenings, and then do the remaining
five. This was an inevitable inconvenience and I am much indebted
to them for the higli proportion of cases in which they remembered
to do so.
5. Procedure
:
There is little to add to what has already been
said, in this paper or my first, on this subject. As explained, the
closed envelopes or opened originals, as the case might be, were
pinned up on my study bookcase at or before 7.0 p.m. each eveniirg,
and were taken down again at or after 9.30 a.m. the next morning.
At the end of the, first and third periods, slips of paper were suitably
pasted over the numbers on the envelopes which had been used,
and they were shufiied out of my sight by my wife and then renum-
bered. Thus the originals for periods 2 and 4 were, as will be seen
from the list given above, the same as for periods 1 and 3 respec-
tively, but were used in a different order.
To make sure that the experimenters paid due attention to the
originals, each was traced in Indian ink on a fresh sheet of paper
as soon as it w^as oirened and unmediately before it was put up. As
before, my wife and I took turns in doing this, I starting. The
tracmg and the artist’s original were put u]j together, one behind
the other.
6. Percipients : As the experiment was intended to throw light
on the differe7ice Ijetween two conditions, I felt it desirable to secure
the participation of the largest possible number of percipients. I
accordingly sent out a grand total of 484 books, of which 247 were
A’s and 237 B’s. Of these, however, only 212 were returned more
or less completely filled up. In addition, Mr J. J. Poortman, to
whom it was impossible to send books in time owing to war restric-
tions, very kindly organised a group of thirty-four percipients from
the Dutch S.P.R., who worked on sheets of ordinary paper under
the same instrtictions as were issued to the other percipients. I am
very much obhged to Mr Poortman for his continued assistance in
difficult circumstances.
Thus a total of 246 complete or partially complete sets was
received, of which 134 were A’s and 112 B’s. I should like to take
this opportunity of thanking all those concerned for the troixble they
took in enlisting percipients and distributing and collecting the
books, particidarly Dr Thouless, Professor Norrish and Mr C. A.
Mace at Cambridge, Dr Mary Collins at Edinburgh, Dr Thorburn
at Cardiff, Dr Vernon at Glasgow, Mr Rex Knight at Aberdeen,
164] Experiments on Paranomud Cognition of Drawings 285
Mrs Chance at Alierystwyth, Mr Gibson at Duke University, and
Miss Wellman of the American Society of Psychical Research.
7. Randomisation and Scoring : The percijrients’ books were all
sent, in the first instance, to Professor Broad, who very kindly con-
sented to randomise them in the same way that he had done for
Expt. IV A & IV B. In this case, however, the randomisation was
confined to the books themselves and was not extended to the
individual pages of each book.
The books so randomised, with covers detached and each bearing
two identifying letters as before, were next passed to me. I then
scored all drawings against the ten originals used in just the same
sort of way as Mr Hindson had scored the drawings of the first group
of experiments against the fifty originals used in them. I adopted
the same plan of assigning 1, ^ or 0 to each drawing ;
and in view
of the success of Mr Hindson’s half-point markings ^ I tried to work
on a somewhat more generous scale than I had used in my earlier
tentative attempts.
It is important to note that the randomisation made it imjjossible
for me to distinguish between A and B sets ;
and that consequently
I could not, even if I had wished, favour open as comjrared with
closed originals, for the former came early in B sets but late in A
sets, and vice versa.
The whole of the material (246 sets) was later scored again, but
this time against all the fifty originals prepared by Mrs Lewis, by
my friend Mr Fraser Nicol of Edinburgh, to whom I am very greatly
indebted for carrying out this laborious piece of work. In this case
he not only did not know which sets of drawings were A’s and w’hich
were B’s, because of the randomisation, but was equally ignorant
as to W'hich of the fifty originals had been used in the experiment.
This second scoring not only afforded a check on my own "work,
but, because it used all fifty originals instead of only ten, was capable
of greater sensitivity, and thus gave a greater chance of detecting
any effect which might be present. Neither scoring, however,
yielded anything approaching a significant result.
8. Results
:
In order to meet the point raised hy IVIr Stevens in
Proc. S.P.R., Part 163, q.v., to the effect that it is illegitimate to
give more than one point to any percipient in respect of the same
original, both Mr Fraser Nicol’s markings and my own were care-
fully ‘
dereplicated ’
before computation. That is to say, wherever
more than one entry had been made for the same original in marking
a single set, I retained only the highest ;
or, if there were more than
one candidate for retention, decided by a random procedure.
^ Loc. cit. pp. 94-5.
!
280 Wlidfely Caringfon, M.A., AI.Sc. [part
Since all the lesulhs are null, I do not think it worth while to give |
the hgnres for the ten originals seriatim or to separate. the full from
the half points. Table I below accordingly shows only the incidence i
of entries (1 and f treated alike) on the two groups of originals,
'
X and Y, during the four periods, as allocated by Mr Fraser Nicol
and myself.
Table I
W.W.C. Mr Fraser Nicol
Period X Y X + Y X Y X-tY Others Total
1 53 56 109 27 40 67 118 135
2 36 43 79 18 27 45 94 139
3 77 33 110 36 18 54 80 134
4 74 50 124 46 30 76 88 164
Total 240 182 422 127 115 242 380 622
As might be expected, there are ap|3reciable discrepancies between
our figures, even when we allow for the fact that I was deliberately
marking on a inore generous scale than I encouraged him to do.
None the less, certain important features agree well ;
in particular,
note that Imth scorings show much higher proportions of hits on X,
as compared with Y, originals in periods 3 and 4 than in periods
1 and 2. The figures (%X) are
Period ; 1 2 3 4
W.W.C. : 48-6 45-6 70-0 59-7
J.F.N. ; 40-3 40-0 66-7 60-6
When we reflect that the X group of originals was completely
|
known throughout periods 3 and 4, quite unknown in ^Deriod 1, and ’
only progressively ascertained during period 2, these figures (which
are easily shown to be significant) strongly suggest that knowledge
is advantageous.
I must freely admit that, at one time, I allowed myself to be
misled to this effect, and was confident that the experiment had
detected a significant difference between the two conditions of
‘
unknown ’
and ‘
known ’. Fortunately, however, the considera-
tions detailed on page 282 above occurred to me before it was too
late ;
and further consideration of the data convinced me that this i
effect may be fully explained by sup].)Osing that the X originals ;
(Book, Bow, Cigar, Lamp, Ruler) happen to be of a kind which |
people mostly draw later in a series of ten than they do the Y
originals (Chopjjer, Coat, Ffouse, Pelican, Teapot), suj^posing that ;
they draw any of these at all.^
1 Since writing the above, I have had occasion to score the whole of the
j
material of Exj^ts. I to V against aU originals used up to date, including those
164] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 287
111 order to make a valid test we must compare periods of lilie
lateness, such as 1 and 2 or 3 and 4. Thus, in period 1, both X
and Y originals are wholly unknown, but in jieriod 2 the X originals
progressively become known while the Y’s do not ;
similarly, the
X’s are fully known throughout periods 3 and 4, but the Y’s become
known only in the last. And the periods are comparable, because
1 and 2 both consist of drawings 1 to 5, for A and B percipients
respectively ;
while 3 and 4 both consist of drawings 6 to 10 for
B and A percipients respectively. Consequently, if there is a real
advantage accruing to the more known condition, there should be
a higher proportion of X’s in period 2 than in period 1, and of Y’s
in period 4 than in period 3. We may examine whether this is the
case by means of the familiar “2x2 table ”, using ;
but when
we do so we find a null result in every case. As a matter of fact,
the expected proportions are (quite insignificantly) reversed for
periods 1 and 2, as reference to the percentages given above will
show. This is found whichever figures we use ;
but in each case
also it is outweighed by a small ^^ositive effect in periods 3 and 4.
Thus, on balance, the evidence is slightly in favour of the knowm
as compared with the unknown condition ;
but no result comes
an}Twhere near significance,^ so there is nothing to be gained by
giving the relevant calculations here.
We may therefore conclude, without going into further details,
that these data afford no worthw;hile grounds for siqrposing that
contemporary knowledge of the original by the experimenter
enhances the percipient’s prospect of success.
9. Interim Discussion : The null result reported above does not,
of course, settle the point at issue one way or the other, for it is
susceptible of more interpretations than one. In the first place, it
here discussed. Taking the hits on X and Y originals for Early (1 to 5) and
Late (6 to 10) positions in a 2 x 2 Table, I find
Early Late Total
X Originals 46 37 83
Y „ 61 31 92
Total - 107 68 175
There is clearly a tendency for hits on Y originals to be made relatively
early. This is not significant, for the corrected value of X- is only 1-74 with P
about -19. On the other hand there are only 175 entries here, compared with
my total of 422 in Table I above. If the tendency showed itself in Expt. VI
I
with the same strength as in I to V, the effect would be significant. This
I caimot be claimed as establishing the truth of the suspicion mentioned ;
but
'
it is certainly sufficient to warrant our rejecting the prima facie indications of
Table I.
I
1 The best, derived from my own figures, gives P no better than T3.
288 Whafely Carington, M.A., M.Sc. '
[part
is ])ossil)le that the experiment simply failed to ‘
work that is to Ij
say, that no paranormal cognition occurred nnder either condition ;
I
in the second, it might well be that there actually was some difference |l
between the two conditions, but that the experiment was insuffi- Ij
ciently sensitive to demonstrate it. Only alter eliminating these
possibilities would we be entitled to conclude that unknown originals |
are as easily cognised as known. )
If we had obtained a significant positive result in favour of the
known originals, there would, I think, have been no doubt about ‘
the conclusion that knowledge was at least definitely advantageous, ;
though we should not have proved that it was indispensable. As i
it is, we cannot interpret the result with confidence until we have
comjDared the exjjeriment as a whole with the preceding experiments,
so as to ascertain whether the percipients engaged, or either category
of them, scored relatively more hits on the ten originals used than
on the earlier origmals, and mutatis mutandis. To do this satis-
factorily, we need a more detailed and more delicate method of
marking than can practicably be obtained from uninformed judges
using the roughly graded scale of 1, \ or 0. I accordingly propose
to postpone further discussion of this experiment until after I have
completed an imjmoved scoring of Experiments I to VII.
The question of sensitivity, however, deserves a note here. The
total number of drawings involved is approximately equal to the
number obtained during the first five experiments ;
so that it would
be not unreasonable to expect a significant result if there were a
real difference between the two conditions. On the other hand,
intervals ranging from five days to about as many weeks were
allowed to elapse between constituent experiments of the first group,
whereas the twenty ‘
ex|30sures ’
of this experiment were made on
consecutive evenings. If precognitive and retrocognitive effects be
real, as the results described in my first paper suggest, this is likely
to lead to a confusion between the two conditions having nothing
to do with their intrinsic merits. That is to say, percipients of the j
first period might score precognitively on originals known only in
the second ;
or percipients of the third might score precognitively
on the originals of the fourth or retrocognitively on those of the
second. The first two of these effects would tend to obscure any
difference between the two conditions that there might be ;
the
third would tend, per se, spuriously to enhance it, but it must be
remembered that, from the arrangement of the experiment, the X '
originals are known to the experimenter during period 3, quite apart |
from any true retrocognition on the part of the percipients. Thus j
factors of this kind, if operative, would tend on balance to obscure
164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 289
the effect we are looking for, and 1 am inclined to attril^nte the
inconclusive result mainly to this cause. Clertainly, if 1 had reahsed
then as clearly as I do now the extreme importance of time as a
factor in the process, I should have tried to arrange for intervals
of at least two weeks between the various experimental periods.
As it is, comparisons between the numbers of hits scored on X
and Y originals in periods 1 and 2, or in 3 and 4, do not properly
correspond to comparisons between hits scored in different experi-
ments separated by an adequate tune interval ;
the correspondence
is rather with comjrarisons between the first and second halves of
the same experiment. If we pool the data for Experiments I to V,
we have, using the Hindson All Entries figures as in PNC.D.I,
Hits by the
On the Drawings of
Originals of Occasions
of Occasions 1-5 6-10 Total
1-5 89 68 157
6-10 59 64 123
Total 148 132 280
This gives as D77 with P as large as ’19. It is accordingly
quite insignificant, though we know that the experiments were
eminently successful when compared vdth each other as wholes.
290 Whately Carmgfoji, M.A., M.Sc. [part I
B. Experiment VII : First ‘
Inter-University ’
Experiment
ABSTEACT : Each of five ‘ primary ’
Experimenters prepared and
displayed ten randomly selected Originals on ten successive nights,
at Glasgow, Edinburgh, Oxford, Bristol and Beading. Attempts to
reproduce these were made by five associated groups of percipients
and also by five other groups organised by ‘
secondary ’
Experimenters
at Leeds, Cardiff, Birmingham, London and Cambridge.
Taken as a whole, the experiment appears to have been intrinsi-
cally successful, but the percipients of particular groups did not
succeed in scoring relatively more hits on the originals intended for
their groups than did the percipients of other groups. That is to
say, something in the nature of ‘
cross -influence ’
or the equivalent
seems to have been operative in an important degree.
Some further evidence of precognitive and retrocognitive effects
was also found.
A tentative theory of paranormal cognition is advanced.
1 . I'jitroductory : In the present state of our knowledge of Para-
normal Cognition there are two main lines along which we must |
try to progress. In the first place we must devise and perform I
experiments of a specific or ad hoc character with a view to throwing
light on the nature of the process involved and the conditions of I
its occurrence ;
in the second, we must develop a repeatable tech- i
nique and do our best to induce independent experimenters, par- |
ticularly psychologists, to apply it. Experiment VI, which I have
just described, is a not very successful example of the first class,
while Experiment VII, discussed below, was mainly intended as a
preliminary first steji in the second direction.
I have long felt strongly that this whole question of repeatability,
and of actual repetition by others, is of the very greatest importance.
In the long run, a subject can no more be firmly established on the ^
work of one or two individual experimenters, however fortunate or
gifted they may be, than on the performances of one or two per-
cipients of no more than transitory brilliance. I was accordingly
very anxious to arrange as soon as possible for experiments to be
carried out, on the same general lines as my first five, in which i
everything of major importance should be done by some person or
persons other than myself and in such a way that no amount of
bias, or even malfeasance, on my part could affect the issue. In
this way I hoped to obtain independent confirmation of my results, I
to spread interest in the subject, and to provide for the work a
164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 291
somewhat wider basis than could be afforded by the activities of
a single individual.
There were, however, and still are, considerable difficulties in the
way of reahsing any such project. I had virtually no doubt at the
time I first envisaged the plan, and have less now, that anyone who
could arrange to conduct five ‘
ten evening ’
experiments, spaced
over as many months and employing about fifty percipients each,
would obtain results of the same kind as I had found, but such a
programme involves something very like full time work, as I well
know, and is far more than one could possibly expect any profes-
sional psychologist, already well occupied with his ordinary duties,
to undertake. Besides, it was by no means certain that there would
be many, if any, to be found who would consider the subject suffi-
ciently advanced to warrant the expenditure of so much time and
energy, even if they could spare them.
It was accordingly clear that the only hope was to arrange some-
thing on co-operative lines, so that the work could be shared among
several experimenters, each of whom would make some not pro-
hibitively laborious contribution, and in such a way that by com-
bining these contributions a significant result might be obtained.
Even so, and assuming that the requisite co-operation could be
secured, I was faced with the difficult question or whether to aim
at a succession of (say) five experiments well separated in time,
more or less as my own five had been, or whether to permit experi-
menters to suit their own convenience, with the consequent hkeli-
hood of some considerable overlap between the periods of the con-
stituent experiments. I had, of course, no doubt at all that the
first plan would be preferable—^partly because it would reproduce
more accurately the procedure of which I hoped to confirm the
results, and partly because I was very much alive to the possibility
that some kind of cross-influence between experunenters or per-
cipients or both might tend to obscure the effects sought. Against
this, I had considerable doubts as to whether such a plan would be
practicable, at least within the limits of time I judged it reasonable
to allot to it. Most, if not all, of those whom I proposed to approach
were subject to the limitations of University terms, particularly as
regards the availability of percipients ;
consequently, it would
probably have been difficult to arrange for more than one separate
experiment in each term time, and this would have meant s^^reading
the work over more than a year. Moreover, though I have no wish to
be alarmist or despondent, even in retrospect, there was a not wholly
negligible risk that if the proceedings were unduly protracted it might
prove impossible to conclude them without external interference.
292 Whately Carington, 31.A., 31.Sc. [part
I therefore decided to arrange, if I could, for five independent
experiments to be carried out by five different experimenters, but
to put up with whatever complications might be caused by such
overlap in time as might be found unavoidable. Apart from the
use of a plurality of experimenters instead of one, this would corre-
spond very fairly closely to the structure of my first group, except
that the constituent experiments would be mainly separated in
space and not in time. I reflected that, if my misgivings as to cross-
influences were unfounded, I ought to be able, by arranging for all
drawings to be scored ‘
blind ’
against all originals as before, to
obtain a significant positive result ;
if they were not, then it should
be possible to demonstrate the fact by scoring the whole of the
drawings of the fii’st five experiments and of the five sections of
this against the hundred originals used in both, and the resulting
evidence of cross-influence (if any were found) could hardly fail to
be of great interest.
I have little dorrbt that this decision was correct in the circum-
stances prevailing at the time ;
and I certainly do not regret it,
even though I consider that it prevented me from obtaining the
straightforward confirmation of my results which I had in some
degree allowed myself to hope for. Prophecy is always rash, and
I should be sorry to commit myself at the present stage ;
but I am
strongly inclined to suspect that the outcome of this experiment,
which strongly suggests something equivalent to cross-influence,
will be found to mark a milestone in our understanding of what is
going on at least comparable to the realisation of the fact of dis-
placement forced on our notice by Experiment II.
^
2. The Notion of Cross-influence : I think this question of possible
cross-influence deserves a short digressive section to itself before
I go on to describe the actual experiment.
The first five experiments gave us good grounds for supposing
that paranormal cognition occurs, but they told us nothing as to
how the percipient contrives to cognise the right drawing out of
all the millions in the world, or the right element of mental content
out of the many thousands which must have passed daily through
the ex]rerimenters’ minds ; or even how those particular minds were
selected out of the mass of humanity. I do not suppose that I had
wittingly so much as set eyes on more than forty or fifty of the 250
who took part, and was not on terms approaching intimacy with
more than perhaps ten or a dozen : similarly, it is unlikely that
greater numbers than these knew where Fitzwilliam Road was or
had ever passed along it. Tims it seems out of the question to
1 Cf. PNC.D. I, p. 54.
164] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 293
postulate any direct personal rapport ;
on the other hand, the sup-
position that adequate jisychological linkage with, for example, the
percipients of Duke University was provided by my correspondence
with Dr Rhine and his personal contact with them appears an
extremely tenuous and unconvincing hypothesis.
It accordingly seemed at least possible that, if two or more experi-
menters were working at once, percipients might ‘
]hck up ’
impres-
sions from any or all of them indiscriminately : alternatively, per-
cipients might ‘
relay ’
impressions to each other by what one might
term a sort of ‘
lateral ’
telepathy ;
or both these processes might
operate together. It was on account of considerations such as these,
which were fully justified by the event, that I should much have
preferred a succession of experiments separated in time to a group
of which the constituent members overlapped.
3. Organisation of the Experiment
:
In the hope of securing the
requisite co-operation, I approached a number of psychologists,
philosophers, and others of like qualifications and interests, in the
principal universities of the British Isles. The response was most
gratifying. Three or four, not unnaturally in the circumstances,
pleaded pressure of work and war-time conditions, and begged to
be excused ;
but I had no great difficulty in finding ten, in ten
different Universities, who were willing to cooperate in greater or
less degree according to their opportunities. I should like here to
express my most cordial gratitude for their help and my w'arni
appreciation of the way in which, at what must often have been
very considerable inconvenience to themselves, they supported me
in this exploratory enterprise into unfamiliar and clebateable terri-
tory ;
and my feelings are enhanced by the fact that nearly all
those concerned, and one or two newcomers also, have consented to
continue the work with further experiments now in progress.
It will readily be understood that it was not until I knew, at
any rate approximately, the niunber of co-operators available that
I could finally decide on the form the experiment should take. The
general plan, of course, was that each of, say, five or six experi-
menters should conduct an independent ‘
ten evening ’
experiment,
on the lines of my own Expts. I, III, IV & V, wfith his own group
of percipients ;
and that the dra’svings of all percipients, suitably
randomised, should be scored ‘
blind ’
against all originals in the
same way that Mr Hindson scored the drawings of the first five
experiments against the fifty originals used in them. The somewhat
qualified hope (for the reasons given above it would be incorrect to
say ‘
expectation ’) was that when these scores were arranged in a
suitable 5 x 5 (or 6 x 6) Table, they would show that the percipients
294 Whatehj Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part ii
used by each experimenter had scored, to a significant extent,
relatively more hits on the originals dra^vn by him than on those
j
i
drawn by the other experimenters. There was, however, the diiii- '
culty that, if too many experimenters took part in this way, the i
number of originals might easily become unmanageable from the 1
scorer’s point of view—even though I had been so fortunate as {
again to secure the help of Mr. Hindson in this connection ;
more- '
over, not all of those who expressed their willingness to cooperate
were able to undertake the full duties of a ten-evening experi-
menter.
I therefore decided to organise the experiment in two ranks, as
jj
it were, with five ‘ primary ’
experimenters each doing a full ten-
'
evening experiment on his own and with his owir group of per-
cij^ients, and five ‘
secondary ’
experimenters who had the less
onerous task of enlisting the services of percipients, distributing
and collecting books, etc., without drawing any originals them-
selves. Each secondary experimenter and group of percijrients was
associated (randomly) with one of the primary experimenters, and
the percipients were asked to ‘
aim at ’
the drawings produced by
him ;
they were not told that other experimenters and groups were
working at the same time. My idea was that, if knowledge of or
personal contact with the experimenter played any part in the pro-
cess, the secondary groups might reasonably be expected to do less
well than the primary, or even to yield a null result while the
primary groups yielded a significant one, and that some effect of
this kind might throw useful light on what was taking place.
The locations and names of the experimenters, their identifying
letters, and the numbers of percipients taking part (neglecting two
or three who returned nothing but blank sheets) are given in Table I
below ;
Table I
Identifying No. of
Letter Place Plxpcrimenter Percipients
Primary Experimenters
A Glasgow Dr P. E. Vernon 15
B Edinburgh Dr Mary Collins 24
C Oxford Mr and Mrs W. Kneale 20
D Bristol Mr M. H. Carre 21
E Beading Dr Hilda Oldham 33
Total 113
164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 295
Secondary Experimenters
a Leeds Dr LI. Wynn Jones 20
b Cardiff Dr J. M. Thorburn 8
c Birmingham Miss M. Hammond 25
d London Mr E. J. Bartlett 38
e Cambridge Dr C. A. Mace 23
Total 114
In addition to the foregoing, Leeds contributed sixteen ‘
False
Starters ’
(see section 12 below), and there were two sets forwmrded
by Mr Bartlett which arrived after the sets from other percipients
had been sent for scoring.
It will, I hope, be understood that the percipients of the
Leeds, Cardiff, Birmingham, London and Cambridge groups were
instructed to try to reproduce the originals ]‘)repared by the experi-
menters at Glasgow, Edinburgh, Oxford, Bristol and Beading
respectively.
4. Percipients’ Books : The books sent out for distribution to
the percipients were identically similar in their main features to
those used in earher experiments. The name and address of the
experimenter whose originals the percipient was desired to repro-
duce was printed on the cover of the book in each case ;
for
example, the books sent to both Edinburgh and Cardiff had the
words
In your case the arrangements ivill be made by
Dr. Collins,
Psychological Department,
The University,
Edinburgh.
and similar wording, mutatis mutandis, appeared on the books sent
to other groups.
The instruction introduced in Expt. VI, viz., “ Do not draw
vague scenes, elaborate interiors, or purely geometrical diagrams
”
was retained with the qualification “ unless your impressions are
particularly vivid.”
In an attempt to help the percipients, the following words were
inserted, “ Do not strain after obtaining ‘
occult ’
impressions
unless you feel you must. Probably the best plan is to think of
the experiment in a general way, to reject images of which you
clearly recognise the source, and then draw the first thing that
296 Whately Carington, 31.A., 31. Sc. [part
comes.” The part of this from “ to reject ” to “ the source ” was j
almost certainly an error of judgment. Instead of merely eluuin- ,
ating certain kinds of trite and irrelevant drawings, as I had
hoped, it seems to have embarrassed the percipients and to
have led in some cases to earnest introspectionists reporting that
they could not think of anything of which the source was not
recognisable.
Since there was no question of ‘
matching ’
in this experiment, ]
the ten sheets of each book were numbered, for convenience of later I
reference, in the toj) right-hand corners instead of beyond the I
perforations to the left as in previous books.
*
5. Selection of Originals : I was anxious that each primary experi-
menter should himself carry out as much of the essential procedure
as possilde, and that I myself should have no means of knowing
what originals were being displayed where and by whom. On the
other hand, I thought it might lead to confusion if originals
which had been used in the first six experiments were to be used
again.
I accordingly prepared a list of 150 words, mainly but not ex-
clusively taken from the list of 216 which had been sent to Mrs
Lewis for Expt. VI (vide supra) and not containing any of the fifty
which had been illustrated by her. I wrote each of these Avords on
a separate slip of paper, occasionally with a brief indication of the
kind of illustration I desired, enclosed each of these slips in a
separate envelope, and finally shuffled the lot. These 150 envelopes
were then sent to Professor H. H. Price, our President, who very
kindly reshuffled them and, in due course as notified by me, sent a
randojn selection of thirty to each of the five primary experimenters.
Each of these experimenters was told to draAv one envelope at
random from the thirty supplied, on each evening of his experiment,
and to illustrate the word therein as his original for that evening.
Experimenters were told that they might reject the word if they
wished, e.g., if they thought it too difficult to illustrate ;
but" that,
if they did so, they were to re])lace the slip in the envelope, mark
the latter ‘
rejected ’
with the date of rejection, and return it
with the other envelo])es and slips when the experiment was over ;
there were, however, only two or three instances of this being
done.
6. Display of Originals, etc. : Originals were actually selected,
prepared and ‘
displayed ’
by Primary Experimenters as shown in
Table 2 below :
164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 297
Table II
Date,
May,
1940 Glasgow Edinburgh Oxford Bristol Reading
8 Corkscrew
9 Fireplace
10 Caterpillar Box
11 Braces Chimney
12 Toothbrush Camera
13 Screwdriver Easel
14 Crown Knife
15 Tent Motor Horn Lily Unicorn
16 Cock Pincers Key Cup
17 Golf Club Sheep Rake Star
18 Ladder Thermos Volcano
19 Spring Catapult Wringer
20 Carrot Stool
21 Comb Funnel Harp
22 Pillar Box Pickaxe Perambulator
23 Ace of Clubs Elephant Spanner
24 Church Safety Pin Bowl
25 Tumbler
26 Telephone
27 Pansy
28 Locomotive
29 Thermometer
30 Watering Can
It will be seen that there was a very heavy overlap. All fifty
originals were drawn and displayed in the course of no more than
twenty-three evenings. On tliree evenings there were four originals
displayed at once, on six there were three, on six there were two,
while only on eight had a single original the field to itself.
The only points worth noting about the foregoing fist of originals
are the following : Braces—trousers, not ship ;
Cock—rooster, not
tap ;
Golf Club—instrimient, not house ;
Spring—mechanical
(hehcal), not vernal ;
Box—specified to be with lid open ;
Chimney
—as in factory ;
Knife—table, not pocket ;
Motor Horn—old-
fashioned kind wdth bulb ;
Rake—garden, not profligate ;
Cup
—
specified to be without saucer, see Section 12 below ;
Star—con-
ventional five-pointed ;
Stool—three-legged, as for milking, not
foot ;
Funnel—as in chemistry, not steamboats.
All experimenters had of course been most straitly charged, in
the Memorandum of Instructions circulated to them, to take the
same rigorous precautions about safeguarding the originals from all
298 Whately Carington, M.A., 31.Sc. [part
possil)ility of l^eing seen the percipients, or unautliorised persons,
as I had taken in my first five experiments. I have no doubt at
all that all concerned fully realised the imjjortance of this, and
conscientiously carried out the relevant instructions.
7. Randomisation of Dravings, etc. : Each experimenter collected
the completed books from his group of percipients and sent them
to Professor Price at Oxford, who randomised them in the same
way that Professor Broad had done with the books of Expts. IV,
V and VI, before sending them on to the scorer. As in the case
of Expt. VI, randomisation was confined to the books as wholes
and was not extended to individual sheets. Each book was given
a pair of identifying letters, which were entered on the outer cover
and on the first page ;
the cover was then torn off and kept by
Professor Price, together with the key to the identifying letters, ,
until after the scoring had been done. I am very much indebted
to Professor Price for the trouble he took in this matter and for
dealing, as mentioned above, with the shuffling and distribution of
the envelopes for. selection of originals.
Primary experimenters sent their originals to Dr P. H. Thouless,
who kindly arranged them in alphaljetical order and forwarded them
to Mr Hindson for use in scoring.
It will be noticed that this process of randomisation, though
similar in effect, was somewhat different in plan from that adopted
for the first five experiments. Arrangement in alphabetical order
would not conceal similarities in style or mode of production between
the originals drawn by any given experimenter ;
thus, though the
scorer woidd have no idea as to which originals were produced by
which experunenter, he might easily be able to form an opinion to
the effect that certain originals belonged together, and this might
conceivably have led to the operation of some measure of bias. It
was therefore necessary to rely primarily on the randomisation of
the books themselves ;
the sending of the originals via Dr Thouless
was mainly in order to ensure that I myself had nothing to do with
the matter.
8. Hindson Scoring
:
As already intimated, I was so fortunate
as again to secure the services of Mr M. T. Hindson as scorer, and
I must again express my most cordial thanks for his good offices
in the work.
I asked him to apply precisely the same principles as before, but
with the additional refinement of using three-quarter and quarter
points as well as full and half ]>oints. I hoped that this more finely
graduated mode of scoring might throw light on the relation (if
any) between the strength of resemblance of a drawing to an original
164] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 299
and the likelihood of the former l)eing a ‘
winner ’
;
that is to say,
I thought it possible that the full points might give a stronger result
than the three-quarters, the three-quarters than the halves, and the
halves than the quarters, or something like this : actually, however,
all categories gave null results, so that my hopes in this connection
were disapjrointed.
1 have discussed the whole question of scoring so carefully in my
former paper that I need not go into it again here, excejrt to remind
readers that the essential condition of uninformedness on the part
of the judge was as well fulfilled in this case as in the earlier.
9. Results, (a) By Inspection : It needed no more than a rela-
tively hasty skimming through the drawings received, by anyone
familiar with those of the first five experiments, to create a strong
impression that this experiment had been strikingly successful in
the sense that the percipients had scored a notable number of hits
on the originals used in it as compared with the percipients of the
earlier experiments. The following examples show the kind of thing
I mean. The figure preceding the name of the original indicates
the number of hits scored by the 227 percipients of this experunent
while that in brackets gives the number scored by the 251 per-
cipients of Expts. I to V. Thus, there were umnistakably 5 Tooth-
brushes (0), 3 Corkscrews (0), 1 Safety Pin (0), 3 Cameras (0), 5 Pillar
Boxes (0), 12 Elephants (1), 16 Locomotives (7), 8 Watering Cans (2),
and so forth : these are the high lights only, and the list is not
exhaustive.^ This sort of thing is legitimately impressive to the
experienced eye, but it is not to be considered as rigid evidence,
and I shall return below to this question of the success of the
experiment as a whole.
10. Results, Continued, (6) Hindson Scoring : So soon as I had
received the drawings and scoring sheets from Mr Hindson, .and
the key to the identifying letters from Professor Price, I set to
work to prepare 5x5 Tables, corresponding to Table I of my first
paper, q.v., showing the hits scored by the percipients of Groups A,
B, C, etc., and a, b, c, etc., on the originals displayed by the experi-
menters of A, B, C, etc. As in Experiment VI, and henceforward
unless otherwise stated, I used ‘
derephcated ’
or ‘
nett ’
figures ;
that is to say, no set of drawings was allowed to score more than
one hit on any single original.^
Examination of these tables made it abundantly clear that, how-
It wiU be understood that these figures were the resMt of a relatively
superficial inspection of the two sets of material ;
they are given by way of
justification of the impression received, not as final or authoritative results.
2 Cf. Proc. S.P.R., XLVI, p. 262.
300 Whaiely Carmgfon, M.A., M.Sc. [part
ever successful the percipients as a whole had heeu in scoring hits
on the originals as a whole, they had signally failed to discriminate
between those displayed by the experimenter with whom they were
associated and those displayed by others.
In these circumstances there is nothing to be gained by giving
elaborate numerical details. In Table III below I accordingly
present only ‘
skeleton ’
figures for the primary, secondary and
combined grou])S, using the Hindson ‘
All Entries ’
data in which
full, three-quarter, half and quarter points are reckoned as of equal
value. ^
Table III
Primary Groups Secondary Groups
Hits by the drawings of Hits by the drawings of
ABC D E Total a b c d e Total
A 8 76 17 75
On the B 13 109 9 113
Originals C 14 94 21 96
of D 18 118 22 84
E 44 122 26 124
Total 69 93 92 82 183 519 96 27 109 159 101 492
0 is 97 ;
E is 107-960 0 is 95 ;
E is 94-705
Dis -10-960; D/ct is -1-209 Dis 0-295; D/ct is 0-035
P about -23 P about -97
Combined Group»s
Aa Bb Cc Dd Ee Total
A 25 151
B 22 222
C 35 190
D 40 202
E 70 246
Total 165 120 201 241 284 1011
0 is 192 ;
E is 206-025
Dis-M-025; D/ct is- 1-104
It will be seen that, for the sake of clarity, I have given only the
figures for the marginal totals and the leading diagonal in each case.
Otherwise the arrangement is the same as for my Table I of my
first 23aper, and the results are worked by the same procedure as
^ Cf. PNC.D. I, 2^p. 94 and 134.
164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 301
was illustrated in Examjile I on page 132 thereof. As before,
0 stands for the observed numl)er of hits scored by the percipients
on the originals at which they were supposed to be aiming, i.e.,
the number in the leading diagonal ;
E is the expected number of
such hits obtained from the marginal totals ;
D is 0 - E ;
‘
ct ’
is
the standard error calculated by the method just referred to.
It is evident that the only points worthy of mention are the
negative deviation shown by the primary groups and the somewhat
unnaturally close agreement of the Observed with the Exjpected
number of hits in the case of the secondary groups. Both effects,
however, may safely be neglected here. The first is perhaps the
more curious, because we should naturally expect some shght
positive result, however much ‘
cross influence ’
might be going on ;
but it is quite trivial. The second effect is intrinsically significant
;
on the other hand, it is, so to put it, the best of two, so that the value
of (1 - P), which is what interests us here, must be doubled, leaving
us with a probability just below the recognised level of significance.
The results make it clear that there is no tendency for the per-
cipients of a given group, whether primary or secondary, to score
relatively more hits on the originals displayed by the associated
experimenter than on those displayed by others. In other words,
so far as this, the principal overt objective of the experiment is
concerned, the results are completely null.
1 1 . Results, Continued, (c) Manning-Sanders Scoring
:
The con-
clusion stated above renders it a matter of no small importance to
ascertain as definitely as possible whether the remarkable successes
recorded in Section 9 above were fortuitous, and the whole of the
percipients’ drawings no more than chance-determined, or whether
they were genuine and the failure of the groups to ‘
separate out
’
consequently attributable to the overlap of the experiments or to
what I have referred to as ‘
cross influence ’. If the former alter-
native is true, then something has gone sadly and seriously wwong
with the technique ;
if the latter, then we are hkely to find ourselves
led to conclusions of very great interest indeed.
The only way to do this is to compare the drawings of this experi-
ment, taken together, wdth those of some other experiment or
experiments, in respect of the hits scored on their own and each
other’s originals—in much the same way that we did when we were
first enquiring as to whether there was any paranormal effect at all.
The obvious material to use is that of the first five experiments,
for it would be scarcely practicable to organise another complete
experiment of the type of VII specially as a ‘
control ’.
To do so involves finding a fresh unbiassed {i.e., uninformed)
302 Whafely Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
judge, which is much more easily said than done, and I consider
myself extremely fortunate in the circumstances to liave been able
to induce Mr G. Manning-Sanders, who is well known as a writer I
and was formerly an instructor in the Royal College of Art, to under-
take the formidable task of scoring the 4,000-odd drawings of
Expts. I to V and VII against the 100 originals used in them. I
should like here to ex])ress my very great indebtedness to him for
this most timely assistance.
The method of scoring was the 1, .j,
or 0 point system used by
Mr Hindson in scoring the first five experiments ;
but, as before,
I have found it simpler, and sufficiently effective, to treat all entries
as of equal value. The 100 originals were arranged in alphabetical
order (more for convenience of reference than for the sake of ran-
domisation), while the drawings bore no indication of the experiment
to wliich they belonged and were presented in an arbitrary order as
suitably code-lettered volumes each containing on the average some
fifteen to twenty sets. Thus the scorer had no possible means of
knowing which drawings had been aimed at which originals, and the
necessary condition of ‘
blindness ’
was fulfilled.
Mr Manning-Sanders will not, I know, resent my saying that his
relevant forte is in the appreciation of form rather than in the
niceties of clerical meticulosity ;
moreover, external circumstances
prevented hmi from devoting as much time to the task as we could
both have wished. It is not surprising, therefore, that his work
shows a considerable niimber of omissions, with the result that his
scoring is considerably ‘
weaker ’, so to say, than Mr Hindson’s. ,
Thus, for Expts. I to V, Mr Hindson recorded a total of 1,069 nett ;
{i.e.
‘
dereplicated ’) entries, and these led to a value of D/a of 3-803
with P about 1 in 7,000 ;
Mr Manning-Sanders records only 310, )
with Djar 2-575 and P -01 . This is definitely significant, though the '
debilitating effect of the omis.sions is very marked. The quality
(100 D/N) of Mr Manning-Sanders’ result is somewhat higher than
that of Mr Hindson’s, the values being 5-61 and 4-30 in the two
cases respectively, wliich suggests that Mr Manning-Sanders has
somewhat hastily skimmed the cream off the milk by picking only
the more obvious hits.^ This reduction in significance is, of course,
merely the result of relatively bad
—
i.e. hurried—scoring ;
it does
not imply that the data are really less significant than Mr Hindson’s
results indicated.
Mr Manning-Sanders’ full results for Expts. I to V and VII are
shown in Table IV :
I
1 Compare the figures for the ‘
undoubted ’
hits shown in the last column ,
of Table 5 of my previous paper.
164] Exjjerimenfs on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 303
Table IV
Hits by the drawings of
I II III IV V VII Total
I 10 77
II 44 72
On the III 4 142
Originals IV 28 103
of V 40 237
VII 248 431
Total 72 29 34 216 142 569 1061
0 is 334 ;
E is 295-29 ;
— D is 38-71 ;
D/a is 3-022 ;
P less than -01
This result is significant ;
but the contribution made by Expt.
VII is relatively small, though positive, so that we are not entitled
to say much more on these grounds than that the figures are con-
sonant with the supposition that the experiment is of the same
family as its predecessors. This supposition appears reasonable on
general grounds and is strongly supported by the evidence from
inspection. I accordingly projjose to adopt it for the purposes of
discussion in Section 13 below ;
but it must be regarded as no more
than provisional pending the application of more thorough methods
of scoring.
12. Various Points of [nterest
:
The first of these is that of the
Leeds False Starters. It so happened that, through an error on the
part of a temporary typing assistant, the covering letter of instruc-
tions was not sent to Professor Price with the 150 envelopes for
distribution to the experimenters. The result was that Dr Vernon,
at Glasgow, did not receive his envelopes when he should have and
therefore could not start on 1st May as had been planned. I did
not know this, and therefore could not warn Leeds. Consequently,
the Leeds percipients started trying to reproduce non-existent
Glasgow originals, and made some five or six attempts each before
I discovered what had happened and asked Dr Wynn Jones to stop
them. They w^ere afterwards so good as to restart and finish the
course.
The ‘
false start ’
drawings, however, were of remarkable interest.
They contained two Crowns, one Toothbrush, one Church Steeple,
one Ladder, one Easel, two Bowls, one Hen (good enough for Cock),
one W atering Can, one Camera, one Elephant, one Key, one Rake
304 Whately Carmgton, M.A., M.Sc. [part
and one Knife. All these from sixteen ])ercipients producing sixty- -
one jDages of drawings. These were included incognito in the material i
submitted to Mr Manning-Sanders for scoring. Unfortunately, only
twelve of the above-mentioned hits were noted ;
but, even so, we
find (using Expts. I and II only as a basis of comparison) ^
:
Table VI
Hits by the drawings of
I & II L.F.S. Total
On the I & II 28 2 30
Originals of VII 30 12 42
Total 58 14 72
Using the exact method ^ we find P slightly less than -02.
I have no desire to press this result unduly on those who suffer
from a congenital antipathy to precognition, but it is certainly
interesting and, in its owm way, as elegant a piece of evidence in
favour of the phenomenon as any I have come across—and all the
better rather than the worse, I think, for its imprevu character.
Second : As already noted, I specified (just to make it more
interesting) that the Cup should be saucerless. A good number of
saucerless cups w'ere drawn, though I am not yet sure whether there
were relatively more of these than in earlier experiments. But one
percipient drew a cup and saucer, crossed it out, and then drew a
saucerless Cup ;
another drew a saucerless Cup, and added a note
saying “ wanted to draw a saucer, but this was inhibited ”. (My
italics.)
Third ; The Stool was represented as a round-topped, three-
legged type ;
one percipient drew, very carefully, a rectangular
stool, and left out one of the four legs. This may, of course, have
been an accident, despite the evident care of the rest of the drawing ;
but it is pleasantly suggestive of the ‘ psychopathology of error ’,
and suggests that ]jrocesses with which we are familiar in everyday
life are operative in this field also.
13. Discussion ; Tentative Theory of Paranormal Cognition : I am
all in favour of caution of the right kind and in the proper place ;
^ I use Expts. I & II only because, if there is a real precognitive effect such
as we are lookhig for, it is likely that the drawings of IV & V will show an
unduly high proportion of hits on the originals of VII, and this would tend to
mask the Leeds precognitions, whereas, if there is none, Expts. I & II are
just as good a basis for comparison as any other data. The procedure may
seem a trifle arbitrary, but I think it is legitimate in the circumstances, and
the whole matter is raised only as a point of interest.
‘‘‘
Fisher, Statistical Methods for Research Workers, 21-02.
164] Experiments on Paranonncd Cognition of Drawings 305
but we so urgently need some kind of a unifying theory in this
subject that I feel it would l)e mere jmsillaniniity, and not true
caution at ail, to refrain from describing the conclusions to which
these results have led me, just because I may be obliged to revise
them later. The true caution will lie in preserving tiie necessary
readiness to do so if ever the evidence requires it.
Acceptmg, then, for the purposes of discussion, the sujDposition
that paranormal cognition occurred in Expt. VII, as it did in Expts.
I to V, if perhaps not to the same degree, its outstanding feature is
clearly the complete failure of the percipients to distinguish between
the originals produced by their ‘
own ’
experimenter and those pro-
duced by others. Just how strange or how natural this will appear
to my readers I cannot tell, since it will depend on their precon-
ceptions, with which I am not famihar. But it certainly does not
seem particularly surprising to me, for I can find no good reason
for postulating any kind of ‘
rapport ’, or any but the most tenuous
‘
psychological linkage between the great majority of the per-
cipients of the first five experiments and myself ;
and at best, it
seems to me, such terms as ‘
rapport ’
and ‘
psychological linkage
’
are little more than disguises of ignorance. Thus it would be un-
reasonable to expect that any rapport or linkage there might be
between individual experimenters and the associated percipients
would noticeably facilitate the process involved. On the contrary,
I think that, if the various groups of percipients had succeeded in,
so to say, identifying their ‘
own ’
sets of originals, we should have
had the greatest possible difficulty in explaining how they did so.
As it is, there seem to me to be three main types of theory worth
considering. I will deal with these briefly in order of inq^lausibility.
First, there is our old enemy the Radiation Hjqjothesis, the
inadequacy of which I—in common with many other writers—have
discussed elsewhere.^ So far as the j^resent series of experiments
is concerned I should rule it out of court on the ground that the
most spatially remote group of percipients participating were out-
standingly successful 2—a fact which it would be extremely difficult
to reconcile with any radiative theory whatever.
Second, we might do something with a kind of Corpuscular
Theory, in which some hypothetical entity, to be called ‘
an Idea ’,
conceived of as in some manner emanating from the mind of the
experimenter might be picked up and assimilated by that of the
1 For the latest contribution, c/. Professor Price’s excellent paper “ Some
Philosophical Questions about Telepathy and Clairvoyance ” in Philosophy,
Oct. 1940.
2 PNC.D., I, 61-2.
300 Whatehj Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
jjercipient. 1 should not reject such a theory merely because it ,
sounded a trifle fantastic—for what could be more fantastic than ;
the present-day irreducibles of physics?—and I have no objection
to postulating strange hypothetical entities provided we are careful
to define them solely in terms of the observations made upon them.
Indeed, at one period, I flirted seriously with such conceptions as i
these, and thought it jjossible (as indeed I still do) that, given care ;
and a little judicious juggling with Space and Time—and perhaps
Number—one might construct from them a not wholly implausible
theory, which might even make some useful contribution to orthodox
psychology. But I finally discarded them—mainly because I shrink i
from multij^lying irreducibles beyond necessity—in favour of the
simpler if perha ps more drastic view which I shall now try to explain.
The third type of theory is of a kind which I shall call, tem-
porarily and for the sake of brevity, the One Mind type. I am
quite well aware of the sliortcomings of such a name for it, and ;
particularly of the fact that, for all purposes of ordinary discussion, j
we are dealing with an undoul)ted plurality of what are usually i
termed ‘
minds ’.
But the essence of any theory of this type is the
supposition that, so far as these pltenornena are concerned, or, if you
prefer it, at the psychological level on vdrich. they occur, things happen
as if not many minds were involved, but only one.
There is nothing startlingly new in this, for plenty of writers, both
psychologists and ])hilosophers, have put forward the notion of a
common Subconscious or Unconscious, in one form or another. The
novel and possibly revolutionary suggestion I have to make is that
we should try the effect of taking such proposals seriously and as
being literally true within their sphere of relevance, instead of
treating them as mere exhibitions of intellectual virtuosity and
passing on our way as if they had never been advanced.
Let us do this, and let us further, subject always to the reservation
italicised above, examine the suggestion that the phenomenon of
paranormal cognition occurring in the joint mind made up of the
experimenters’ and the percipients’ ‘
sub-minds ’
is identical with
that familiar phenomenon of the single mind known as The Associa-
tion of Ideas—to use a slightly antiquated but still serviceable
phrase.
I do not jRopose to enter upon a detailed logical analysis of what
this phrase means or ought to mean ;
and so far as the term Idea
is concerned it will be sufficient for the present purpose to say that
by it I refer to the image or images which occupy or approach the
field of consciousness when we think of the entity in question—for
example, when we think of Boat we probably have an image of
164] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 307
some particular (or may be imaginary) boat, while images of waves,
beaches, oars, sails, anchors and what not are ‘
nearer ’
{i.e. more
likely to appear in) our field of consciousness than at most other
times.
;
The term Association, bn the other hand, demands somewhat
more careful discussion. The process which interests us here con-
sists of not less than two parts ;
first an ‘
associative ’
event, in
which two ideas, of X and of Y, become as it were linked in our
minds by virtue of juxtaposition in experience or otherwise ;
second
a ‘
revocative ’
event in which the re-presentation of the object X,
say, or the recurrence of the idea of X, recalls or tends to recall the
idea of Y. There may, of course, be many associative events, and
many more than two ideas may be associated ;
but the above
sufficiently describes, I think, the main outline of what we are
talking about. It is important to note, however, that the words
‘
recalls or tends to recall ’
must refer to an increase in a probability.
We may put this into something like formal shape as follows : Let
Pi be the probability of the idea of Y succeeding, within a period t,
the idea of X (or the presentation of the object X) in the mind
concerned, before the occurrence of the associative event ;
let be
the precisely corresponding probability after the associative event.
Then X and Y may properly be described as having been associated
by the associative event if p^ is greater than pj.
Now, if we consider our experiments in jraranormal cognition, we
shall see that there is a point to point correspondence between the
essential events constituting them and those we have just described,
except that the associative and revocative events take place in what
are commonly termed ‘
different ’
minds ;
but this difference is
just what we have decided to ignore for the purposes of this
hypothesis.
Substituting ‘
Experiment in paranormal cognition ’
for X and
‘
any original ’
for Y, we clearly have a perfectly good associative
event whenever an experimenter selects and draws an original ;
that
is to say, the original (or subject matter thereof) and ‘
the experi-
ment ’
or experimental situation are juxtaposed in his experience in
just the kind of way we know to be favourable for forming an
,
association between the two corresponding ideas. Further, when-
ever a percipient sits down to try to ‘
reproduce ’
an original, we
have the elements of a revocative event ;
that is to say, he is con-
fronted with the experimental situation, with ‘
the idea of the
;
experiment ’
in fact, and since his mind is assumed to be identical
with that of the experimenter, at the level and for the purposes
concerned, it follows from our definition of association that the
308 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
])rol)ability of tlie idea of Y occurring to him is greater than if the
associative event liad not taken place.
In other words : Once we have made the fundamental assumption
about the essential unity of the different mimls at the relevant level,
we need add nothing to what we already Ic.notv about single minds in
order to account for the main pheno^nenon observed.
I am not concerned to defend this theory very elaborately, though
I i^ersonally hajtpen to believe that it is as nearly correct as no
matter in its main outline. The question of whether I am ‘
right
’
or not, whatever that may mean, is of comparatively small import-
ance ;
what is inqxu’tant is whether the theory enables us to form
a tolerably cojuprehensible picture of what is going on with the
introduction of the minimum of additional unknowns, and whether
the various features of the phenomenon, so far as they are at present
ascertained, fit into that same picture with reasonable neatness and
without undue strain.
So far as the second of these points is concerned, I think it is
easy to see that the theory covers the main facts very comfortably.
The associative act of the experimenter takes place in one part, as
it were, of the joint mind, the revocative act of the percipient in
another. Each successive preparation and display of an original
associates a fresh ‘
Y ’
with the experijnent (‘ X ’)
;
thus, though
it is natural enough from what we know of single-mind psychology
tliat the latest Y's should, on the whole, come most easily to the
percipients, it is also not at all surprising that the earlier should
also occur though in diminishing frequency ;
and this accounts very
pleasantly for the retrocognitive side of the displacement curve.^
Further, since we are dealing essentially with one mind at this level
and not with a plurality, the failure of the ))ercipients of Expt. VII
to discriminate l)etween their own and other originals follows almost
as a matter of course, for ex hypothesi there is nothing except the
aliove-menti(med eifect of succession to distinguish them, and the
separation in time is small.
As regards the hrst point, I do not think anyone will complain
of the theory on the ground of undue complexity ;
for I have intro-
duced no anatomically invisible transmitters or receivers, no sub-
consciously operated tuning appliances, and no automatic decoding
devices such as would be necessary on any radiation theory. On
the contrary, the objection is more likely to be that, in my desire
for simplicity, I have taken too drastic a short cut
;
but, after all,
^ It will be interesting to see whether this side of the displacement curve
corresponds reasonably well, mutatis mutandis if need be, with the curve of
oblivescence for the single mind.
164]
Experiments on, Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 309
we must do something fairly drastic unless we are prepared to reject
the facts altogether. Moreover, to say that, at the level concerned,
all minds (or all relevant minds) are one, is very much the same
thing as to say that at that level all minds are in free telepathic
communication ;
and this is just about as drastic—no more and
no less—as Newton’s supposition that every jjarticle of matter in
the universe attracts every other particle, which was the basis of
his theory of gravitation.
I can hardly hope that my theory will enjoy such general accept-
ance and so honourable a career as his ;
but at any rate the parallel
suggests a good historical precedent for swallowing the camel rather
than straining at the gnat.
C. Ten-Grade Scoring of Experiments I to V
ABSTRACT : The Drawings of Expts. I to V were scored on a scale
from 10 to 1 against (a) the 50 Originals drawn and used for these
experiments, (b) the 50 drawn for Expt. VI, of which only ten were
actually used, (c) the 50 drawn and used by the five experimenters
of Expt. VII, and (d) 163 words (names of possible originals) which
might have been selected for illustration in Expts. VI and VII.
Examination of the results for the 50 Originals of Expts. I to V
indicates that markings below three may advantageously be discarded
if the most informative data be required.
1. General : Objects of the Work. Readers of my last paper will
recollect that it was necessary to arrange for the drawings of Expts.
I to V and of VII to be scored together against all the relevant
originals before we could be sure that Expt. VII was intrinsically
successful ;
even then, the comparative casualness of the scoring
led to a result much less emphatic than might have been obtained
with more thorough methods. Somewhat similarly, we cannot be
sure of properly interpreting Expt. VI until it also has been scored
as a whole against other material. A comprehensive set of markings
covering all work done up to the present time (about 7,000 drawings)
is accordingly highly desirable, and might well prove valuable as a
standard of comparison for future experiments.
310 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
But, as will 1)6 readily understood, the difficulty of finding scorers 1
able and willing to undertake tasks of this magnitude is consider- |
able, and necessarily increases as material accumulates. Moreover, !
it is easy to see that anyone who has scored any given batch of
drawings is ipso facto disqualified, so far as ‘
uninformedness ’
and
consequent absence of bias is concerned, from scoring any other
collection of which the first batch forms a. part ;
and this a1)sence
of bias is the only reason, of course, for employing an external scorer
at all. Thus it is clear that the policy of inducing some kindly out-
sider to score all drawings against all originals every time a fresh
experiment is performed or whenever additional information is
wanted, is not one which can in practice be pursued indefinitely.
Fortunately, however, there is no particular reason why it should
be. Absence of bias is important in the early stages of the work,
when the crucial question of whether the phenomena occur at all
is still in doubt ;
l)ut once this has been settled there is, in general,
no greater need for adopting such methods than in any other class
'
of scientific work—and 1 know of none in which ignorance and
inexperience are regarded as desirable qualities.
j
I do not mean by the foregoing to belittle the great and vital
service rendered l>y Mr Hindson in connection with the first five
experiments, or to suggest that the possibility of bias will never j
again be important, or to contend that my first five experiments ;
have necessarily established the occurrence of ];>aranormal cognition
in all minds l)eyond any peradventure. The point is rather that,
if and in so far as they fail to carry conviction, it cannot be on
account of l)ias in the assessment ;
and that, having eliminated
bias in the case in which it would be most likely to produce a serious
effect, there is no special need to do so in resjiect of routine matters
where it could hardly be supposed operative at all. In the second
pa.rt (B) of this paper, for example, I propose to examine the
question of whether such factors as Sex, Age, Imagery and Con-
fidence exert any appreciable influence on the degree of success
achieved ;
l)ut such questions, though of some general interest, are
insignificant comjiared with that of whether the phenomena occur
at all, and not of a kind to jmompt l)ias in either direction in any
ordinary mind. And the same applies to the determination of the
quantitative features of the process, such as the rate at which the
]u'obability of a non-chance hit being scored falls off with lapse of .
time after the exposure of an original.
For all ]uirposes such as these, which are matters of information
rather than of test, into which bias could hardly enter, we need the
highest quality of data that experience and thorouglmess can pro-
164] Exijeriments on Paranormal Cognition of Draivings 311
duce. Above all, we need data scored as nearly as possible on a
consistent plan throughout the work, and this requirement at once
rules out any idea of having part of the material scored by one judge
and part by another.
In the circumstances there was clearly no practicable alternative
to doing the work myself ;
nor, indeed, any reason why I should
not do so. On the contrary, although I have tried to make the
jjrocess as objective as possible, cases of doubt inevitably arise from
time to time in which a relatively intimate acquaintance with the
material and the course of the experiments is likely to promote a
judicious decision.
Superficially, of course, it might be urged that almost anyone’s
opinion as to the resemblance between a drawing and an original
is as good as mine, or anyone else’s ;
but I do not think this is
altogether true. Other things lieing substantially equal, it seems
not unreasonable to suppose that prolonged first-hand study of the
material is lil:ely to facilitate the formation of an approximately
correct theory as to the nature of the process involved. And any
policy of scoring that may be adopted necessarily rests logically (if
it be logical at all) on the nature of the theory adopted, just as two
different opinions will necessarily represent two different theories
even though they may not be specifically formulated. Thus the
man who w'ould credit a drawing of two tumblers with a full hit
on Spectacles, on the ground that it represents A Pair of Glasses,^
has obviously adopted a different theoretical approach from one
who would prefer two adjacent circles because of their likeness of
Shape. I myself would reject both, for neither seems to me to
afford good reason for supposing that the percipient was thinking
of Spectacles at the time of making the drawing.
It will be necessary to discuss the policy and principles of scoring
in some detail below ;
but I think it will be convenient to make
first a short digression dealing with the more mechanical aspects
of classification and marking.
2. Classification of ‘ hits ’, etc. In the interests of completeness
and with a view to various investigations which I hope to undertake
in due course, I decided to make a • substantially exhaustive cata-
logue of all objects, etc., represented in the drawings and to extend
the scoring to cover ‘
hits ’
not merely on the originals which had
actually been used up to date but also on those which, if I may
put it so, might have been used but were not. For example, 50
originals, randomly selected from a list of 216 words, were drawn
1 Acknowledgments are due to Dr E. J. Dingwall for this ingenious sugges-
tion.
312 Whately Carington, M.A., 31. Sc. [part
l:)y Mrs Lewis for the purposes of Expt. VI, but only ten of these
were actually used ;
and I wished to be in a position to enquire
whether the 40 drawn but not used, which were to some extent
associated with the experiment in Mrs Lewis’ mind and to a pre-
sumably lesser degree in my own, had relatively more hits scored
on them Ijy the percipients of this experiment than by those of
others. Similar considerations applied to the 166 words listed by
me but not selected for illustration by Mrs Lewis, and to the words
enclosed by me in envelopes and sent to the five experimenters of
Expt. VII but not drawn by them.
In addition to drawings corresponding more or less closely to these
originals and words, totalling 313, I had naturally to deal also with
a considerable number representing clearly identifiable objects,
etc., of other kinds. Finally, there were those geometrical figures
and indefinite scrawls, vague lines, and the like, which some per-
cipients seem to delight in prodiicing in face of the most explicit
discouragement.
Consideration finally led to the institution of fifteen classes, as
given below :
Known Constitution Number of
No. as Originals, etc.
1 1 Originals drawn and used in Experiment I - 10
2 2 )j ?j )) jj jj
n 10
3 3 j; J5 )) J) )5 55 III "
10
4 4 IV -
5? 5) )) J) ’ 10
5 5 V -
5> JJ ?) J) 5J ’ 10
6 6 VI -
55 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 55 ’ 10
7 6* Originals drawn for Expt. VI but not used - 40
8 7 Originals drawn and used in Expt. VII, not
appearing in the list of 216 words prej)ared
for Expt. VI ;
i.e.
‘
fresh ’
for VII 18
9 7a Originals drawn and used in Expt. VII which
did appear in the list of 216 prepared for
Expt. VI ;
i.e. ‘ potential ’
for VI - - 32
10 10 Words potential for VI but not for VII ;
i.e.
words appearing in the aforesaid list of 216,
but not in the 150 envelopes distributed in
Expt. VII- - - - 63
11 11 Words potential for VI I but not for VI ;
these,
like Class 7, were ‘
fresh ’
so far as Expt. VII
was concerned, but the envelopes were not
selected Ijy the ex2
)erimenters - - - 29
12 12 AVords which were potential for both VI and
VII (i.e. appeared both in the 216 list and
the 150 envelopes) but were not used in either 71
164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Draivings 313
Known Constitution Number of
as Originals, etc.
M Mscellaneous Objects, etc., drawn by per-
cipients but not corresponding to any of the
above —
G Geometrical diagrams and figures - - - —
I Indeterminate shapes and vague scrawls, etc. —
Total number of Actual or Potential Originals 313
In case this is not clear, the following points may be noted : The
first five classes are self-explanatory. Of the 216 words drawn up
in the first instance for the purposes of Expt. VI, 50 were selected
and illustrated by Mrs Lewis, ten being actually used (Glass 6) and
40 not (Class 6*) : Of the remaining 166, I discarded, so to say,
63 (Class 10), but retained 103 for possible use in Expt. VII ;
all
these went mto the envelopes, but only 32 were actually used by the
experimenters (Class 7a) while the remaining 71 rank as potential
for VI and VII but not used in either (Class 12) : In preparing the
material for Expt. VII, I used 47 fresh words in addition to the
103 taken over from the initial hst of Expt. VI ;
of these, 18 were
used by the experimenters (Class 7) and 29 w’^ere not (Class 11).
Thus all varieties of actual and potential originals are suitably
segregated into separate classes, so that, if ever we wish, we can
easily study the relative frequencies of hits made on them by different
categories of percipients. This may be of interest if we have occasion
and opportunity to study the effect of varying degrees of association
betw^een originals and the experimental situation in the Experi-
menter’s or other minds. Only the first five classes will be discussed
here.
This paper contaius little but a tedious account of a tedious piece
of work, so I will pass lightly over the mechanical details ;
all the
same, it will be desirable to make the essentials of the procedure clear.
For each set of drawings by any percipient I used a Catalogue
Sheet. These sheets were printed on foolscap paper and each was
provided wdth suitable headings for recording the percipient’s name,
address, age, sex and so forth. In addition, vertical columns were
provided for recording the ordinal number of the drawing in the
set, the degree of Imagery and Confidence reported by the per-
cipient, the nature of the object, etc., depicted, and the name of
the original or potential original which it was judged to resemble.
These were followed by fifteen others, headed to correspond with
the fifteen classes just described, and two more for recording the
total number of entries and the score in any line. Thus, if the third
No.
13
14
15
314 Whately Carington, M.A., M.8c. [part
drawing of a set represented unmistakably a fore-and-aft rigged
sailing boat, the percipient denying both Imagery and Confidence,
the record wordd read :
Classes
No. I C Item Original 1 2 3 4 5 6 etc.
300 Boat Boat .... 10 .
denoting that drawing number 3 (no Imagery, no Confidence) depict-
ing a Boat has been given full marks (10 out of 10) in respect of the
Original Boat, which is a member of Class 5.
There is nothing novel or exciting here. The only point that
matters is that I specificalhj wrote dmvn in the ‘
Item ’
column the
name of each object depicted, or of every worthwhile constituent of
the drawing if the drawing was composite. It would be an exaggera-
tion—but quite a small one—to say that I listed every blade of
grass or squiggle of smoke jotted in as trimmings to sylvan or urban
scenes ;
and I did not, of course, list component parts of wholes
(eyes, nose, mouth, hands, feet ;
doors, windows, chimney pots, etc.)
unless there were some special reason of emj:)hasis or the like for
doing so. Apart from the most incidental trivialities, I doubt
whether anything at all escaped listing, and I am quite sure that
nothing of consec[uence has as yet slipped through the net.
This procedure is somewhat laborious, but it has the advantage
of making it almost impossible to miss straightforward hits, even
when so large a number as 313 possible originals has to be con-
sidered. Moreover, up to a point, the procedure is highly objective.
The drawing represents an ‘
X ’
;
we write down ‘
X ’
in the appro-
priate column and, if in do\d)t, look at the list of 313 possibilities
to see whether it contains an ‘
X ’
;
if it does, then an entry of some
kind must be made in the jnoper place, and the only question is
that of how many points are to be given. Of course, one has to be
on one’s guard. For example, a percipient might draw a saurian
reptile and label it Alligator ;
reference to the list would show no
Alligator, whereas there is a Crocodile (Class 11) to which it wmild
be unreasonable not to assign marks. However, I do not think
I have missed many jjoints of this kind, and am virtually certain
(which is much more important) that if I missed them at all I did
so quite indiscriminately and not in any preferential manner.
The main features of the entries on these Catalogue sheets were
also entered on Index cards which had been suitably printed to
receive them. These were arranged by Subjects {i.e. names of actual
or potential originals) such as Hand, Boat, Tree, etc., so that par-
ticulars of all the drawings depicting these are assembled together
164] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 315
by experiments under the appropriate heads. From these cards it
is easy to read oft' the number of Boats, say, drawn by the per-
cipients of Expts. I, II, III, etc., or the total score allotted to them,
or the number of entries reported as Confident, and so forth ;
other-
wise, of course, it would be necessary to search through the whole
of the Catalogue sheets every time one wanted information of this
character, and this would be quite impracticable. The system of
dual entry also provided means for applying extremely error-proof
checks on the figures.
3. Policy and Principles of Scoring. Among other reasons which
prompted the undertaking of the work was the desire to apply a
more finely graded system of marking than that of giving only 1,
-J- or 0 points, as had been done by Mr Hindson, Mr Saltmarsh,
Mr Fraser Nicol and Mr Manning-Sanders in the cases in which
they had severally cooperated. It will be remembered that I tried
the effect of introducing quarter and three-quarter points in Mr
Hindson’s scoring of Expt. VII ;
but it so happened that all the
results were null, so that there was no opportunity of studying the
differences between the various grades of markings.
There is, of course, no a priori reason for adopting any particular
number of grades ;
for example, the grades a, /3, y are frequently
used for certain purposes, and are sometimes elaborated by the use
of plus and minus signs. But the decimal system is so familiar as
to be preferable to any other in the absence of strong positive reasons
against it, and I accordingly decided to adopt it for this purpose.
My only misgiving in doing so was to the effect that it might ])rove
too finely graded for convenient use ;
but I reflected that it would
always be easy enough to convert the results into, say, a five-grade
scale, by pooling the lO’s with the 9’s, the 8’s with the 7’s, and so
on, whereas, if one started with too coarse a gradation, one
would have to work through the whole of the material again if one
wanted anything finer. Actually, I experienced little difficult in
using it.
The important point to note in this connection is that the process
is not strictly one of measurement but rather of ranking or grading.
I do not think that one can measure resemblance, in the sense that
one can measure length or weight, very much better than one
can measure beauty or tactfulness ;
but one can grade resemblances
in the sense of being able to say that drawing A is more like original
X than is drawing B, and B than C, and so forth. In general, if
we had an original and ten drawings, we could arrange the dravfings
in order of merit, each in the series having less resemblance to the
original than the one preceding it but more than the one following ;
Whately Carington, 31. A., 31.Sc.
316 [part
but this would not necessarily ini|)ly that the best was ten times
as good as the worst.
The analogy of tenij^erature is useful here. We could very likely
arrange ten jugs of water in the order of their temperatures by sense
alone, but no one would contend that the hottest was ten times as
hot as tlie coolest ;
and even if one measured their temperatures
with, say, a Fahrenheit thermometer and found them to be equally
spaced at ten-degree intervals from 150° to 60°, it would still be
incorrect to say that the hottest is 2| times as hot as the coolest,
because the Fahrenheit scale is not based on absolute zero.
In tlie case of resemblances we are a good deal better off, for it
is easy to define the upper and lower limits of our scale in the shape
of a ‘
substantially perfect ’
resemblance in the first case and ‘
no
resemblance at all ’
in the second. If between these two limits we
could insert nine drawings at equal intervals of resemblance to the
original, and could match all subsequent candidates to one or other
of these, qua resemblance, we should be achieving something practi-
cally indistinguishable from true measurement. This, unfortunately,
is impracticable ;
but what 1 have said should serve to indicate the
kind of process to which the scorer must try to approximate men-
tally as he does his work. In so far as he succeeds, the ‘
scores
’
will approximate to true measurements, but it should not be for-
gotten that they are primarily indications of rank and not of quan-
tity. Thus, when we speak of giving 10 points (or ‘
a full mark ’,
or the equivalent) to a drawing, we mean that we regard it as being
of the highest grade in its resemblance to the original ;
when we
give 7 points (or 7/10 of a full mark), we imply that we can imagine
at least three degrees of resemblance intermediate between it and
a ‘
substantially perfect ’
resemblance and seven between it and ‘
no
resendjlance at all ’
;
if we give only one point (or 1/10 of a full mark)
the suggestion is that the drawing could hardly be less like the
original and still retain any claim to resemblance whatever.
This all sounds rather elaborate and formidable, but I imagine
that something of the kind, even if- scarcely formulated, must be at
the back of the mind of everyone who undertakes any kind of task
involving the grading or ranking of material. The real trouble starts
when we begin to consider what quality is to be the basis of our
iudgments, and how much weight is to be allowed to each if we
decide on more than one. In grading fruit, for example, one might,
I suppose, base one’s judgments on size, colour, firmness, ripeness,
or smell, or perhaps on other qualities, while in practice one would
presumably use some scarcely formulated combination of all these.
Somewhat similarly, in judging resemblances, there are various con-
164] Experimenis on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 317
siderations which might be taken into account, each of which, as
I have observed above, depends for its validity on some kind of a
theory as to what is likely to occur if paranormal cognition be a
fact in nature.
Thus, if we regard Form as all imjrortant, we are tacitly assuming
that the percipient in some sense sees and copies the original ;
if we
reckon a drawing of a Bow (archery) as a high grade hit on Bow
(ribbon), we suggest that it may be the ivord that is in some manner
‘
transmitted ’
;
if we pay attention to relationships of the ‘
Two
Tumblers for Spectacles ’
variety, we clearly entertain the possi-
bility of subconscious punning ;
and if we were to recognise Bow
(archery) as a hit on Arrow' w'e should be regarding association as
likely to play an important part. Other possibilities could no doubt
be thought of, while various combinations and elaborations of those
just mentioned would be tolerably plausible.
I can perhaps best lead up to the principles which I myself adopted
by saying that, to the best of my ability, 1 paid negligible attention
to any of the foregoing. This is not to say that I deny, or even
seriously doubt, the occasional occurrence of any of the processes
concerned, except the ‘
seeing ’
mentioned in the first ;
on the con-
trary, I should not be surprised to learn that all of them, and perhaps
others also, play a part from time to time. But at present I know
of no reason whatever for supposing that they do so more than
occasionally and to a secondary extent ;
on the contrary, the funda-
mental principle of scoring hitherto—wdiich has led to highly signifi-
cant positive results—has been “ Stick to the obvious ;
avoid the
recondite ;
give one mark for a palpable hit, nothing for a miss . .
.” ^
or “If any draw'ing plainly represents the same object or activity
as that depicted in one of the originals, a ‘
hit ’
is recorded ;
if not
not.” ^ It may very well be, of course, that j^rocesses of the kind
I have mentioned above come into operation much more often and
more importantly than I at present suspect ;
but successes based
on instructions of the kind just quoted do nothing to encourage us
to rely on relationships of the more fanciful t}q>es for routine and
informative purposes.
Reliance on Form is, of course, entirely a matter of degree, for
it is evident that; in general, it is by its form alone that we recognise
what a drawing is intended to rejiresent ;
exceptions occur when
the drawuig is unrecognisably bad or non-existent and the per-
cipient wTites something like “ This is intended to be an X ” or
“ Thought of an X, but could not draw it
”—X standing for any
object. But it sometimes happens that the marks made on the
1 PNC.D. I, p. 81. ^ Ihid., Appendix IV, p. 142.
318 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
paper, tliougli not unmistakably an attempt to represent anything
particular, do suggest something ;
for example, two equal triangles
j
apex to apex and with bases vertical might suggest either a Butterfly !
or a Bow (ribbon). 1 have l)een extremely chary about paying any |
attention to this sort of thing at all, and have certainly never looked j
out for it. I have given a very few low grade (1 or 2) markings in
cases where the resemblance forced itself on me—probably not more
than six or eight altogether, if so many ;
but that is all.
To pure homonyms I have paid no attention whatsoever ;
that
is to say, 1 have never given anything to Bow (archery) for Bow
(ribbon), or in similar cases. The same applies to pimimig, of which
no instance has attracted my notice.
The only case I can remember in which I succumbed to tempta-
tion in the matter of association was a drawing of Cross-bones which
I graded as 4 for Skull ;
but there may have been a very few others
which escape my present recollection.
There have, of course, been a number of borderline cases in respect i
of which a severe critic might attempt to convict me of misstatement I
in what I have just said. For example, when I drew the Spinning ||
Top of Expt. II, 1 was trying to illustrate the word Spinning which
has various applications, so I thought it right to give one or two
points to such things as the word Swirl (almost a synonym of Spin)
or a drawing of a Spinning-wheel, which would have done just as
well as a Top to illustrate the word Spinning.^ No doubt a few i
other instances of the same kind of thing could be found ;
but
my statement to the effect that 1 have used such relationships
to a negligible extent is, I believe, substantially correct, and I have
added these explanatory cpialifications partly as a j)recaution and I
partly on the chance that someone else may wish to score draw-
ings, for comparative purposes, on lines as close to my own as
possible.
Turning to the more positive aspects of the matter, the funda-
mental principle I tried to bear in mind for my guidance throughout
may be formulated somewhat as follows : Given that this drawing
has a jjrima facie claim to be given points for a certain original, i
what degree of plain and straightforward evidence does it afford for
supposing that the |jercipient at the time of making it had the same
^ It is of some interest to record that the percipient of Expt. II who drew
a substantially perfect picture of the Spinning Top also produced, in the
course of the same experiment, the only examjDle of a Spinning-wheel hitherto
noted. This, superimijosed on a Flag, curiously enough, was not so good as
the Top, but scarcely mistakable. In practice, it is stricken out of the record
as a ‘
replicate as explained below.
164]
Ex2Jeriment.s on Paranormal Cognitio)i of Drawings 319
sort of ‘
idea ’
in bis mind, or was thinking of the same kind of
thing, as the experimenter when he drew the original? This, or
something very like it, should be graven on the heart of every scorer,
for I can think of no other which both goes to the root of the matter
and can be relied upon in all circumstances.
The words “ plain and straightforward ” are important ;
without
them, the door is left open for the use of every kind of fanciful
relationship that the whim or prejudice of the scorer may suggest
;
none the less, I think it reasonable to enter the proviso that a
striking degree of what I may term indirect evidence, as in the
examples given above, may be regarded as equivalent to a small
degree of “ plain and straightforward ” evidence. Even so, such
indirect evidence, involving relationships of the kind discussed above,
should be very sparingly used pending ad hoc research as to their
genuineness.
At first sight, this rule seems very easy enough to apply, and so
it is—up to a point—in the case of single-item drawings, though
even here comphcations soon arise. Let me illustrate from the
example of the original Horse (Expt. II). ^ I drew as best I could
a Horse standing in side elevation and facing to the left. Now,
confining ourselves to single-item drawings only, are we to give full
marks (highest grade) to all drawings of a horse, regardless of whether
the animal is represented as in side view or facing the observer,
standing or galloping, etc. ? I think that if we were concerned with
an ‘
all or none ’
system of marking, or with the 1, or 0 method
used by Mr Hindson, the answer should unquestionably be ‘
Yes
on the ground that “ A man’s a man for a’ that ”. But when we
have plenty of grades to play with, I think not ;
and my general
rule has been never to give 10 points (highest grade) unless there
was no reasonable respect (other than skill in draughtsmanship, in
which we are not interested) in which the drawing could be improved
upon. I found it useful always to bear in mind the possibility that
I might come upon another drawing later on which would be more
like the original (point-to-point correspondence apart) than that
which I was considering. Thus I would not give 10 points to a
galloping horse, because I could give no more to one that was
standing, though the latter would be more like the original than
the former. In general, I deducted one point only, or maybe two,
for each difference of this kind between the original and the drawing,
_so that a single-item drawing, recognisably representing the same
1 As a matter of accuracy, the word actually turned up in the dictionary
was Jennet, there defined as “ Small Spanish Horse ”, but the Small Spanish
part was ignored,
u
320 Whately Caringlon, M.A., 31.Sc. [part
object as an original, would usually score not less than 7 pointsd
Just what differences should be recognised as warranting deduction,
and whether two points should be deducted instead of one, are neces- !
sarily matters for personal judgment in particular cases ;
but there
is little room for serious error.
Another ‘
dimension ’
of difference, if I may borrow a term,
usually quite independent of what I have just discussed, is that of
the kwd of object represented. For example, the Tree drawn as an
original in Expt. V was a somewhat ‘
cabbagy ’
sort of thing, of more
or less deciduous appearance ;
whereas percipients drew quite a
number of palm trees, fir trees, Christmas trees in pots, and other
varieties. Deductions were made for differences of this sort on much
the same lines as those just discussed.
Another dimension of difference is found in the varying numbers
of objects represented. A single Tree is drawn as original : What
are we go give for Two Trees? For Three Trees, or Four? For
Avenues, Woods, Groves, Spinneys, etc.? The proper answer is,
I think, much as before ;
that is to say, deduct points for each
step, so to say, by which the drawing differs from the original ;
but
in this case 1 should cut the points pretty rapidly so as soon to reach
vanishing point, for I find it hard to suppose that an impression
which starts as a single deciduous Tree would end up as a forest
of conifers.
This is closely akin to the very trying matter of composite draw-
ings. Broadly speaking, I treated these as follows : If the object in
question (a Tree, say) was Primary in the drawing, i.e. manifestly
the principal item of interest and attended only by incidental trim-
mings {e.g. grass jotted in in the foreground, a cloud indicated in
the background, etc.), it was treated as if it were a single-item
drawing ;
if it appeared as Co-equal with some other object, it would
be docked of a point or two on this account ;
if it was definitely
Secondary, another point or so would be deducted ;
and if it were
clearly no more than Incidental, it would only be given one or two
points ‘
for charity ’.
This brings us to the lower end of the scale, where the same sort
of plan was adopted as at the higher end, but naturally inverted.
That is to say, just as I did not give 10 points if I could reasonably
expect a stronger claimant, so here I tried not to give so low as
one point if I could imagine a worse claimant still having some sort
of a claim.
1 Perhaps I ought to say explicitly here, in case it is not already clear, that the
phrases “ give (or score) 7 points ”, etc., are precisely synonymous with “ place
(or be placed in) the seventh grade ”, etc.—the tenth grade being the highest.
164] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 321
The foregoing prol)al)ly sounds complicated enough, and I could
easily make it worse by citing the complications peculiar to certain
particular originals ;
but in jDractice the task is not really so bad
as it sounds, for it really reduces to applying the ruling principle
about “ plain straightforward evidence ” with the aid of what I can
only call common sense and no more than a minimal modicum of
imagination. The ‘
rules ’, if I may term them so, about deducting
points and the like, cannot be applied in a too rigidly mechanical
fashion ;
but if one keeps them in the back of one’s mind for guid-
ance in cases of doubt, and modifies them with one or two more
—
such as tending to be a trifle more generous with unpopular
originals than with popular and a trifle more severe with hits which
one knows to be ‘
winners ’
than with others, both of which seem
sensible principles—one soon finds that one is seldom in doubt as
to what points to give.
I need hardly say that I do not regard this as an exhaustive or
particularly satisfying exposition of the subject, still less as a com-
prehensive manual for the guidance of would-be scorers ;
and I
should be sorry to have to stand up to hostile cross-examination as
to just why I made every decision. But I felt it necessary to give
some indication of the general principles underlying my efforts, of
the kind of problems which demand solution in work of this kind,
and of the kind of way in which I have tried to deal with them ;
otherwise my readers might think that I had been guided by nothing
but an injuclicious mixture of wish-thinking and guesswork
It is perhaps just worth mentioning that, almost from the start,
I had in my mind the idea that the four top grades of 10, 9, 8 and 7
should comprise all the really first-class hits, and that the I’s and
2’s should form a kind of rubbish bin for charity and duty points
—
that is to say, for drawings which one regarded as thoroughly bad
candidates {e.g. the forests and palm groves) but which coukl not
be discarded altogether with a clear conscience. In view of the
results, it may be desirable to repeat that this notion began to take
shape almost as soon as I started work and certainly long before
I had any notion what the results would be like.
4. Results: {a) Introductory
.
Before I discuss the results obtained
I think we should spend a moment in considering why it is worth
while working out results at all ;
or why, alternatively, we should
not just treat the grade numbers as decimals of a hit, tot up the
scores, and leave it at that. After all, it might well be suggested,
we already know that these five experiments have led to a highly
significant positive result when scored under ‘
test ’
conditions, and
whatever we find now can neither add to nor detract from it.
322 Wliately Carivglon, M.A., M.Sc. [part
This is true eiiougii ;
l)ut we are not liere concerned, as we were
previously, with the question of whether paranormal cognition occurs
at all. Our purpose here is to extract from the raw material the
set of data best calculated to throw light on various points relevant
to the manner and laws of its occurrence and to serve as a tolerably
reUable standard for future reference. If there were any infallible
method for distinguishing genuinely paracognitive hits from those
due to chance, we should naturally (for many purposes, at any rate)
pick out the former and study them intensively. But at present
there is not, so the best we can do is to select, as objectively as
possible, the data containing the highest proportion of genuine hits
and the lowest of irrelevant and merely diluent material.
One reservation must be made here, namely that it might happen
that the body of data containing the highest jwojmrtion of hits was
too small, absolutely, to yield significant results in the kind of cases
we shall be considering ;
that is to say, we must effect the best
compromise we can between quality and quantity.
Now it should be evident that if we had adopted criteria for scoring
other than those which I have tried to describe we might have col-
lected a far larger proportion of irrelevant ‘
hits ’
than we are
actually likely to have done ;
for the recognition of sufficiently far-
fetched relationships would enable us to claim a ‘
resemblance ’
of
some kind 1)etween almost anything and anything else. The ques-
tion is whether we have carried generosity too far, and whether, in
order to obtain the best material for our purpose, we may profitably
eliminate some of the lower grades of hits.
I shall deal with this very shortly, but before doing so one brief
digression must be made.
[h) Dereplicalion. It was pointed out (in effect) by Mr W. L.
Stevens ^ that the method iise for testing significance depends for
its validity on the assumption that the entries in the 5 x 5 (or similar)
table used are independently distributed, and that this is untrue if
any percipient is allowed to score more than a single hit on any
given original ;
consequently, surplus or ‘
replicate ’
hits must be
eliminated before computation of the data.
This might be done by simply not entering replicate hits on the
catalogue sheets at all, i.e. by making up our minds by inspec-
tion which of a plurality of Trees, say, was the best reproduction
of the original and entering that only ;
but I thought it better
to enter every such hit, with its appropriate marking, as if the
others were not there, and then strike out those which were not
wanted.
1 Proc. S.P.R., XLVI, Nov. 1940, p. 267.
164] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 323
The plan adopted was as follows : If one of the liits was graded
higher than the others, I retained this and struck out the remainder ;
if there were two of equal value, I tossed up as to which to keep ;
if there had been three, I should have kept the middle one ;
if four,
I should have drawm lots ;
and so forthd
The figures dealt %vith in the following section, and henceforward
unless expressly stated to the contrary, have all been derephcated
in this way.”
In this connection the following point of interest arises. The
tendency to draw the same thing more than once might, of course,
arise from many causes. It might, for example, represent the sym-
bolic fulfilment of some pent up wish ;
or the object depicted might
merely be one of great normal interest to the percipient, which he
could not ‘ get out of his mind ’. But it might also be in some
measure a sign of a genuine paracognitive impression. If so, we
should expect to find replicated hits (counted, of course, only once
each) to show a better result than non-replicated. The fact that
they form a significantly positive 5x5 table, when collected and
tested in the usual way, does not help us ;
for we may reasonably
expect any large enough sample drawn from significant material to
be itself significant. But when we examine the j>roportion of genuine
hits (see below, and Appendix I) we find it is so high as 16-09% for
the rephcated hits, but only 8-80% for the non-replicated—that is
to say, almost twice as great. The difference, however, is not sig-
nificant, for P is almost exactly -10. But the suggestion that the
tendency to repeat is an index of genuineness is fairly strong and
very well worth bearing in mind.
(c) Results for different Grades. We start by collecting all the hits
graded 10 (highest grade) into a 5 x 5 table and testing them for
significance in precisely the same manner as described in my first
paper ;
^ then we do the same for all the hits graded 9 ;
the same
for all the 8’s ;
and so on down to the I’s. Next we take the lO’s
and 9’s together ;
then lO’s, 9’s and 8’s ;
then lO’s, 9’s, 8’s and 7’s ;
and continue the ])rocess, adding in the data for the next lower
grade at each step, till all entries are included. The first set of
results is shown in the left-hand half of Table I below under ‘
Separ-
ately ’, and the second set in the right-hand half under ‘
Cumula-
tively ’.
1 It would be improper systematically to retain the first, say, or the last,
for this might affect any investigation we might wish to make of Displacement
within the experiment.
2 Also in my preceding paper dealing with Expts. VI and VTI, as there noted.
® PNC.D, I, pp. 90-94 and 132.
324 Whately Garingtoii, 31. A., 31. Sc. [part
After the Grade number, in the extreme left-hand column, each
half of the Table shows ; N, the number of hits of that grade ;
D/ct, which has its usual meaning, D being the difference between
the observed and expected number of hits in the leading diagonal
—
i.e. on originals of the experiment in which the percipient was
working—and a the standard error ;
P, the probability of such a
difference or a greater arising as the result of chance alone ; Q
lOOD/N, being a measure of ‘ quality ’
introduced in my first paper,
^
and G, the percentage of ‘ genuine ’
hits
—
i.e. hits due to paranormal
cognition rather than to chance. The method of obtaining this
quantity is given in x4.ppendix I.
Table I
Results of Ten-Grade Scoring
Main Results
Separately Cumulatively
Grade N D/cr P Q G N D/a P Q G
10 103 1-38 •17 5-06 7-47 103 1-38 •17 5-06 7-47
9 83 1-39 •17 5-75 9-94 186 1-91 •06 5-28 7-50
8 89 2-50 •02 10-34 14-77 275 3-05 •01 6-89 9-75
7 106 3-50 •001 12-82 17-69 381 4-33 lO-'i 8-39 11-58
6 73 •06 •95 •26 •35 454 3-96 10-^ 7-01 9-73
5 95 1-39 •17 5-68 7-77 549 4-41 10-5 7-09 9-75
4 84 •95 •34 4-05 5-79 633 4-37 10-^ 5-08 9-21
3 146 1-67 •09 5-56 7-65 779 4-82 10-5 6-69 9-22
2 109 •50 •68 1-83 2-67 888 4-71 10-5 6-13 8-41
1 88 -•25 •81 -1-01 -1-36 976 4-49 10-5 5-58 7-63
Supplementary Results
Replications of hits graded > 2 -
Score, 10 to 1 -
Grades 10 to 3, omitting 6 -
Grades 6, 5, 4 and 3 taken together
73 2-84 •01 11-78 16-09
522-4 3-89 10-^ 6-54 9-77
706 5-86 10-8 7-35 10-16
398 2-39 •02 4-69 6-40
This Table is by no means devoid of interest. It is evident by
inspection that the cream of the milk is to be found, as we should
expect, in the highest grades—particularly in 8 and 7, which is
rather more surprising. Grade 6 shows a terrible slump right down
to chance values ; 5, 4, and 3 do nearly as well on the average as
10 and 9, by whatever standard they are judged, while my ‘
rubbish
bin ’
of 2 and 1 plainly contains nothing but rubbish.
^ Loc. cit, p. 97.
164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 325
Superficially, I suppose the most striking feature is the violent
contrast between grades 7 and 6. I decline to believe that this
remarkable superiority of grade 7 is due to a superstitious veneration
for the magic number on my part ;
even if it were, one would expect
grade 8 to be depleted about as badly as grade 6, which it is not.
I have no doubt at all that it is due to the fact mentioned at the end
of section 3 above, namely that I had the idea in mind that grade 7
should represent the lower limit for first-class hits ;
this is likely to
result in my grading as 7 instead of as 6 a certain number of hits
(apparently about 16) which I regarded as unmistakable, but which
might otherwise have suffered a sufficient deduction of points to
bring them down to grade 6. I am quite sure that I did not tend
to reduce hits to grade 7 which ought to have been graded 10, 9
or 8. If this be the case, it is odd that there should be such a marked
rise in the values of D/cr, Q and G from 10 to 7 ;
and doubly so
when we reflect that, on general grounds, we would rather expect
a falling off.
Clearly we must not attach much importance to this ;
but it does
look rather as if the most perfect resemblances contained a lower
proportion of genuine hits than the slightly less perfect. Very tenta-
tively, I suggest the following explanation, purely as a matter of
interest, and on the strict understanding that it is not a matter of
demonstrating an effect but of picking up such crumbs of informa-
tion as the facts seem to suggest.
In many cases the originals drawn were highly conventionalised.
If the percipient, for reasons other than that of receiving a genuine
impression, thinks “ Let’s draw an X ”, he is likely, I suggest, to
draw an ‘
impersonal ’, i.e. a conventional X ;
but if he does receive
a genuine impression, it seems not unreasonable to think of it
coming up, so to say, through his subconscious and being subjected
to a certain amount of modification or embroidery on the way ;
and
this might well involve just the kind of differences from the original
which would lead me to deduct a few points from the maximum
grading of 10. The point is interesting, but should not be taken
too seriously.
Reverting to Table I, I think there can be no doubt as to what
policy we should adopt in the matter of selecting material for future
use. Ignoring, for the moment, the anomalous values for grade 6,
we see that the cumulative figures reach maximum significance with
the inclusion of grade 3 hits. Grades 2 and 1 are virtually worthless,
so we shall certainly discard these as merely tending to ol^scure any
effect we may be looking for. That is to say, when studying par-
ticular points of interest, such as sex and age differences, we will
326 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
use only those liits which have been graded 3 or higher. As a matter
of fact, I have no doubt that it would be perfectly legitimate to
discard grade 6 also ;
for its worthlessness has been empirically
discovered by a process which is entirely independent of the points
we shall wish to investigate. This would leave us with the extremely
high quality data referred to in the Supplementary Results as
‘
Grades 10 to 3, omitting 6 ’. However, I prefer to keep to wind-
ward of criticism, so I propose to retain them. Moreover, as shown
in the lower part of the Table, Grades 6 to 3 show a decently signifi-
cant result, so that the 5’s, 4’s and 3’s must be making quite a useful
contribution, and it would be a pity to discard this for no special
reason.
The only reasonable alternative would be to use the top four
grades only ;
but these, though of very high quality (G=1T58) are
rather small in number—only about half as many as for 10 to 3
—
so that we should run the risk of missing points of importance
through lack of sufficient material to bring out significance.
At this point it might not unreasonal)ly be asked why, having
taken all the trouble to separate out the hits into 10 different grades
(or 11, counting comj^lete misses) I should now propose to lump
eight of them together and treat them all as of equal value. It
might seem more sensible to utilise the grading by reckoning the
lO’s as full hits, the 9’s as 0-9 of a hit, the 8’s as 0-8, and so on. This
may be regarded as equivalent to treating them all as full hits and
then weighting them according to their grading. The results of
doing this are given in the Supplementary part of the Table opposite
‘
Score ’.
I think the answer is twofold. First : In the present state of the
subject we are inevitably more interested in the fact of a hit occurring
than in its quality ;
and I had little or nothing to guide me in form-
ing an opinion as to where on my mental scale of resemblances (if
I may use so formal a term to refer to the various considerations
discussed earlier in this j^aper) the frequency of genuine hits was
likely to drop to a negligible proportion of the total. Thus it would
have been quite impracticable to fix some arbitrary level of resemb-
lance in my mind and then give a full mark to every resemblance
above it and nothing to all below ;
for if I had fixed the level too
high I should have wasted valuable material, but if too low there
would have been an equally pernicious dilution. The matter was
one which had to be dealt with empirically by grading all plausibly
])Ossible resemblances as intelligently as I could and seeing where-
abouts the critical level did in fact occur. Second : The policy to
be pursued will depend on the nature of the problem under investi-
164] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 327
gation. If we are interested in the simple question of, say, whether
women are more successful than men, and define a success as the
scoring of a hit on one of the originals in the experiment in which
the percipient is working, then it would he a mere gratuitous sacrifice
of sensitivity not to treat all hits as of equal value. We might also
be interested to know whether women score more ‘ good ’
hits than
men, defining ‘ good ’
as ‘ graded higher than 6 ’
;
here we should
still treat all hits as of equal value. But in other circumstances it
might be desirable to weight the hits according to their merits ;
then we might use the score down to 3’s inclusive, or preferably,
I am incbned to think, we might weight the hits according to the
probability of their being genuine, i.e. proportionally to G. For
both the last two purposes, prior grading of the hits is indis-
pensable.
This seems as convenient a point as any to insert two notes
almost by way of apology to the reader : (1) In dealing with the
non-random distribution of instances of replication, I actually used
in the calculation only hits which had been graded higher than 2 ;
but I did not mention this because I had not then shown the reason
for discarding lower gradings : (2) Throughout, I have written as
if the phrases ‘ genuine impression ’
and ‘
a hit due to paranormal
cognition, on one of the originals of the experiment in which the
percipient is working ’
were synonymous ;
but this is not true unless
we choose to make it so by definition, for the percipient might, by
genuine paranormal cognition experience a precognitive or retro-
cognitive impression of an original in some other experiment ;
this,
however, does not affect any issue discussed here.
[d] Comparison with Hindson Pesidts : There is very httle to be
discussed under this heading. If we compare results for my gradings
from 10 to 3 with Mr Hindson’s dereplicated ‘
All Entries ’
figures,
which seems to be the most approjjriate comparison, we find that
I have attained an appreciably higher level of significance with the
use of appreciably fewer entries. The figures are D/ct = 3-803 and
4-82, N=1071 and 779, for Mr Hindson and myself respectively.
That is to say, my procedure appears to have picked out a higher
proportion of genuine hits than his ;
and this is confirmed by the
values of G, which are 6-093% for him and 9-217% for me. Since
we do not know the variance of G, we cannot test this conclusion
directly ;
but it is easy enough to show that the 10-grade pro-
cedm-e has picked out a higher proportion of ‘
winners ’
than Mr
Hindson ;
for in a 2 x 2 table we have
328 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
Winners Losers Total
Ten-grade, 10-3 220 559 779
Hinelson All entries 251 820 1071
Total 471 1379 1860
which gives 2-289 for the corrected value of x^, with P less than -03.
Now, apart from the fact that he was only using the grades 1
and while I worked from 10 to 1 (or to 3 for the figures now con-
sidered), there seems to have been only one considerable difference
in our methods, as judged by examination of a good number of his
markings and confirmed in conversation. This is that he paid much
more attention than I did to what I may call ‘
mere form ’
;
in
other words, he was much more likely than I to give a mark to a
drawing which was more or less the shape of an ‘
X ’
as opposed to
one plainly representing an ‘
X If this be true, as I have little
doubt that it is, then we have here a fairly strong suggestion that
mere resemblances of shape are not, in general, likely to be genuine
hits, or at any rate a good deal less likely than are unmistakable
representations. This, for what it is worth, would seem to tell
against the view tliat any jrrocess analogous to seeing is involved ;
if one were, we should rather expect that the general form of the
original would sometimes be imjrerfectly ‘
seen ’
and reproduced,
withoiit being recognised ;
and, if such quasi-seeing were the rule
rather than the exception, resemblances of mere shape should, I
think, tend to enhance and not to diminish the effect. The indica-
tion is feeble, though worth bearing in mind ;
but it seems to be
supported by the rise in the value in G from grade 10 to grade 7.
If quasi-seeing were involved, then surely the highest proportion
of genuine hits would fall to those having the clearest ‘ quasi-
eyesight ’, and these would presumably produce the most faithful
reproductions ;
but this is contrary to the facts.
5. Smmnary and Conclusion. The perpetration of so dull a paper
requires some apology. I can only plead necessity. It is not a
practical proposition to go on indefinitely invoking the aid of
external scorers, however benevolent ;
nor is it at all certain that
even the most careful instructions would always overcome their pre-
possessions or imbue them with a reasonable attitude.
It was therefore necessary to undertake a comprehensive and
systematic scoring of the whole of the available material, partly in
order to ])rovide the l)est jiossible data for the investigation of par-
ticular points of interest, partly for the jjurposes of future reference.
I did not feel justified in taking the line ‘
These are my scores ;
i 164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 329
:
I have had great experience of these drawings ;
tlierefore these scores
i are perfect or in just dumping them on the reader without com-
ment. I was therefore forced to explain as carefully as I could, and
as fully as the limitations of time and space allow, the basic prin-
ciples which guided me, the collateral considerations which con-
tributed to judgments, and the kind of way in which a scale of
grading was formed.
Examination of the results for the 10 grades used shows (a) that
there is a rise in quality from the 10th to the 7th grade, (6) that
hits graded less than 2 may profitably be discarded. Data con-
sisting of hits graded 10 to 3, inclusive, \yill accordingly be used for
future work imless otherwise stated.
Only three small points of direct technical interest have been
incidentally encountered. 1. There is a certain suggestion that
some degree of individual modification accompanies genuine im-
pressions. 2. The ten-grade figures show a higher proportion of
genuine hits than the Hindson figures ;
the latter rely more on
resemblances of mere shape than do the former ;
this indicates that
quasi-seeing of the original is not likely to play a major part in the
process. 3. There is some indication that the tendency to repeat a
drawing is a sign of genuineness of impression.
It is hoped to extend the work to Expts. VI and VII.
330 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
APPENDIX I
It seems to be often insufiiciently realised that not every ‘
win-
ning ’
hit, or successful guess, in experiments in this subject is
necessarily due to paranormal cognition. This is fairly easily realised
in the case of guessing Zener cards, for example ;
for it is easy to
see that chance alone vdll tend to give an average of one success in
every five trials, or five in the standard pack of 25 cards. But, if
the percipient gets ten right out of 25, it is not correct to conclude,
as might appear at first sight, that five of these ten are due to
paranormal cognition. The most probable number is given by the
relation w4-(25-w?)/5 = n, where ni is the number paranormally
cognised and n is the number of correct guesses, as was first shown
(I believe) by Dr Thouless in his review of Rhine’s early work.^
Somewhat similarly in the case of drawings we know that people
may very well produce drawings more or less closely resembhng
originals for all kinds of extraneous reasons ;
and it is incorrect to
suppose that the number due to paranormal cognition is given by the
excess of observed over expected hits falling in the leading diagonal.
And it should never be forgotten, in this or similar work, that we
have no means of telling (at present) which of the resemblances
observed are ‘ genuine ’
and which are fortuitous.
In any table of the kind we have been using, an estimate (on cer-
tain assumptions) of the mean proportion of ‘
winning ’
hits due to
paranormal cognition as opjDOsed to chance maybe obtained asfollows.
Using a 3 X 3 table as an example, let us suppose that in each
experiment the percipients obtain a certain proportion g of winning
hits [i.e. hits on the originals of the experiment in which they are
worldng) by virtue of j^aranormal cognition ;
let the remaining,
chance-determined, hits be distributed between the originals of the
three experiments in proportions of which the mean values are Ic,
m and n for Expts. I, II and III respectively. Let a^, a^, be the
total numbers of hits scored by the percipients of the three experi-
ments, and let 6j, 6.,, be the total numbers of hits scored on the
originals of the three experiments. This conforms to the previous
notation in Avhich the u’s and 6’s are respectively the column and
row totals of the table.
Then the number of hits, due to paranormal cognition, made by
the percipients of Expt. I on the originals of Expt. I will be by
the above definitions of a and g. This leaves a remainder of udl -g)
1 Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XLIII, Part 139, p. 32.
164] Exjyeriments on Paranormal Cogiiition of Drawings 331
hits due to chance, and these must he divided i)etween the three
experiments in the proportions k, m, n as postulated above. This
gives -g), a{m{l-g) and a-^nil -g) for the number of chance-
determined hits, on the originals of the three experiments respec-
tively, by the percipients of Expt. I.
Similar considerations apply to Expt. II, writing for a-^ through-
out and remembering that the hits due to paranormal cognition
must be placed in the appropriate cell ;
and similarly again for
Expt. III.
Then the expected frequencies for the cells of the 3x3 table, on
the assumptions made, will be
On the
Originals of I
I a^g + ha^{\-g)
II yna-^{l-g)
III (
1 -
1/)
Hits by the drawings of
II
ka^(l-g)
a.£ + ma^{\ -g)
na^{\-g)
III
ka^{l-g)
ma^{l-g)
a^ + na..^(l-g)
It is simple enough to verify that the columns add up correctly
to Uj, «2 and « 3 ;
but the rows must also add up to make the marginal
total &2 and 63 . And since u^-l-n 2 + %= N! grand total
number of hits, we find
aig + kN{l-g) = b^,
a^g -t niN [I -g) = h^,
and a^ -I- n,N {\-g) = h.^,
whence
k = {b^-a^g)IN{l-g)\ ni = {b^ - a,^g)lN (\ -g)\ n = {b^~ a^g)jN - g).
Substituting these values for k,
become
I
I aA/^ + «il/(l-§) afbJN
II cifbJN - UobJN
III a^bJN - a^a^g/N aAl^
m and n, the expected frequencies
II III
a^hJN - a.gx.^glN
-a^a^gjN
a^o-gglN a,h,IN + a^{l-^^)
and here again the columns and rows will be found to total correctly.
But the first term in each case is easily seen to be the frequency
expected on the null hypothesis that there is no paranormal cog-
332 Whately Caringfon, M.A., M.Sc. [part
nition anrl tlu; distriliution of hits diie to cliaiice alone. The second
terms accordingly represent the changes in the expectations due to
adopting the hypothesis that cognition occurs to the extent assumed.
To find g, then, we sum the second terms of the revised expecta-
tions in the cells of the leading diagonal, and equate to the difference,
Z), between the observed number of hits in the leading diagonal in
any particular case and the number expected on the null hypothesis.
For three exjiei'iments this gives us
or in general g . A ju,.
which easily reduces to the more convenient form
Nl)
S {aan -dr)}'
The percentage of genuine hits, i.e. the quantity G used in the
text, is lOOp.
It shoidd be noted that the foregoing method is based on the
assunqjtion that the incidence of hits in cells other than those of
the leading diagonals is determined by chance alone ;
that is to say,
the facts of “ displacement ” discussed in my first paper are ignored.
The quantity G, therefore, though an interesting index to the
quahty of the data from which it is derived, shoidd be regarded
rather as an indication of the extent to which the proportion of
]iaranormally determined hits in the leading diagonal is superior
to that in other parts of the table than as a determination of the
alisolute value of this |jro]iortion.
164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Draxvings 333
D. Association of Paracognitive Ability with Sex,
Age, Imagery and Confidence
ABSTRACT : The figures obtained in the course of C above are
used to investigate the question of vrhether success in the paranormal
cognition of drawings is associated with differences of Sex, Age,
Imagery or Confidence. No evidence of significant association is
found.
1. General
:
The questions of whether Women are more successful
at paranormal cognition than Men, A^oung persons better than
Older, those who form visual Images than those who do not, or those
who have Confidence in their drawings than those who lack it, are of
some general psychological interest. Personally, I do not regard
them as of primary importance from the point of view of enlarging
our knowledge of the phenomenon as such. If we were to find, for
instance, that Women were markedly superior to Men, this would
add, I feel, more to our knowledge of Women than to our knowledge
of paranormal cognition ;
for I do not see what inference regarding
the nature of the phenomenon could safely be drawn from the fact.
On the other hand, if marked differences between any or all of
these categories were to be found, the discovery might be of con-
siderable practical value. One of our great dilficulties in pursuing
the subject further is the fact that the effect is very small in the
case of ordinary people ;
another that we can never be sure that
any particular hit is due to paranormal cognition and not to chance,
even when we have ample grounds for supposing that a good pro-
portion of the observed hits are not chance-determined. If we knew
that some particular quality favoured success, we could choose our
percipients accordingly and might reasonably expect to reduce these
dilficulties by securing a higher proportion of genuine hits.
In any event, if only as a matter of routine, points such as these
ought to receive some measure of attention before we pass on to
more interesting problems.
In what follows, I have, in effect, taken the proportion of ‘
win-
ners ’
{i.e., hits on originals used in the experiment in which the
percipient was working) as the measure of ‘
ability ’. This is
arbitrary, for we might equally well take the proportion of ‘
direct
hits ’
{i.e., hits made on the original used on the same occasion as
that on which the drawing was made) as our criterion, or indeed hits
falling within any chosen range of occasions ;
and it may well be
that at some future stage it will be worth while to enquire whether
334 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
variations in tlie difi’erent sorts of ability thus definable are asso-
ciated with factors in which we are interested. But this would
take us too far at present, while the criterion adopted conforms with
the general method of the first five experiments.
The figures used are those decided on in the earlier part of this
paper, namely all hits (treated as of equal value) to which, in my
own scoring there reported, I assigned a grade not lower than three.
On general principles, a note of caution should be soimded here.
I happen to have taken particulars (in most cases) of four factors
which it seemed likely, on general grounds, might be associated with
success ;
but I might have noted innumerable others, from weight
or eye colour to knowledge of French or hiving for oysters. If we
were to test a large number of such factors for association with
success, we should expect to find, on the average, that one in twenty
attained the -05 level of significance, one in a hundred the -01 level,
and so on, even if there were nothing but chance at -work. Con-
sequently, if we find apparently real associations among those we
actually do test, we must be on our guard against the possibility of
their being due to chance effects of this kind. I shall return to this
point again at a later stage.
2. Methods : At first sight, the obvious plan would appear to be
to form a simple 2x2 table showing the numbers of Winning and
Losing hits scored by Women and Men respectively, say, and calcu-
late hi fhe usual way. But this will not do, because it might well
happen that there were more Women than Men (or vice versa) in an
experiment of which the originals happened to be particularly
poj)ular, i.e. more likely to be drawn by chance alone ;
and, if this
were so, it would tend unduly to favour in the final result which-
ever sex was preponderant in that experiment ;
and similarly for
other factors.
Alternatively, we might form a separate 2x2 table for each
experiment. This would overcome the trouble just mentioned, but
would have two disadvantages ;
first, if Women did better than Men
in some experiments but worse in others, the result would be
awkward to combine ;
second, if there were no appreciable differ-
ence between experiments, in this respect, we should be wasting
sensitivity in allowing for it.
A more promising scheme would be to work separate calculations
for Women and Men, following the procedure of my first paper in
each case, and to compare the differences between the observed and
expected numbers of Winners in the two cases. This will tell us
correctly whether Women do better than Men, Old persons than
164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 335
Young, etc. ;
but not whether the superiority is signihcant. The
reason is that Stevens’ formula for the variance of the difference is
computed on the assumption that the null hypothesis is correct,
and that there is no paranormal cognition, whereas we have every
reason to believe this to be false, and we do not know what it is
when there is a real effect.
The only proper procedure is to analyse the variance in the
recognised way. This is a matter of three factors in each case,
namely, differences between Experiments, E, differences of ‘
right-
ness R, i.e., whether the hit is a winner or loser, and differences
due to the factor, F, with which we are dealing, such as Sex, Age, etc.
There are also the interactions between these ;
that is to say, there
will be a higher proportion of winners in some experiments than in
others, represented by the contribution of ER, or the interaction
of experiment with rightness ;
there will be a higher proportion of
hits (regardless of type) by Women, say, in some experiments,
represented by the interaction EF of experiment and sex ;
and
there will be some difference between the proportion of winners
scored by women and by men, when everything else has been allowed
for, and this, in which we are primarily interested, is represented by
the interaction FR of sex and rightness. Finally, there is the
second order interaction ERF of all three factors, which consti-
tutes ‘
error ’
for our purpose.
These are the simplest analyses possible which are capable of
throwing light on the points at issue, and I shall give the figures in
each case below. But it is worth noting that a much more elaborate
investigation could, in principle, be undertaken if it were thought
desirable. We could, indeed, form a six-dimensional table embodying
cross-classifications under Experiment, Rightness, Sex, Age, Imagery
and Confidence, and investigate not merely the first order inter-
actions mentioned above, but those of higher orders also, such as,
say, Sex-cum-Imagery-cum-Rightness. But apart from the fact
that this would be extremely laborious, and would involve dis-
carding Expt. II altogether, because no data for Imagery or Con-
fidence were collected, it would hardly be worth while undertaking
unless the first order interactions showed significant results, which
they do not.
3. Sex : Among the 251 sets of drawings dealt with in the first
five experiments, 120 were from Y omen, 106 from Men, while in
25 cases the sex of the percipient was unknown. These were omitted
altogether, and this accounts for the discrepancy between the total
number of hits recorded here and that given in the first part of the
X
336 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
paper. The sexes were distributed between the five experiments as
follows
;
Experiment - - I II III IV V Total
Women - 24 7 4 51 34 126
Men - - 13 13 7 45 28 106
Unknown - 9 16 25
Total - - 37 20 11 105 78 251
Women scored a grand total of 130 Winners to 285 Losers, and
Wen 76 to 236. This is 346 hits per woman, with 31-3% winners,
and 2-94 hits per man, with 244% winners ;
but these figures are
of no real interest, for the reasons given above.
The full data are given below as an exani23le
Women IMen Total
Expt. I Win - - 29 10 39
Lose .
72 29 101
Total -
101 39 140
Expt. II Win - -
6 17 23
Lose . 16 41 57
Total -
22 58 80
Expt. Ill Win - .
3 7 10
Lose . 11 18 29
Total - 14 25 39
Expt. IV Win -
34 24 58
Lose -
116 107 223
Total -
150 131 281
Expt. V Win - .
58 18 76
Lose 70 41 111
Total -
128 59 187
Total -
415 .312 727
The variance analyses as follows ;
Source of Sum of Degrees of Mean
t'ariance Squares Freedom Square
Between Expts. E 8,936-.30 4 2,234-075
,,
Sexes, S 53045 1 530-45
„ W&L, E 4,961-25 1 4,961-25
Interaction, ES 2,065-30 4 516-325
,, EE 3,491-50 4 872-875
SE 1-25 1 1-25
„ ESE 224-50 4 56-125
Total 20,210-.55 19
164] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 337
The Mean Square for SR, the only quantity in which we are
interested is smaller than that for Error. It follows that the data
afford no grounds for sup])osing that sox makes any difference to
paracognitive ability.
I. Age: To simplify matters, T divided percipients into three
age groups, viz. less than 25, from 25 to 41 inclusive, and over 41.
This is arlutrary, but it gives a good contrast between the extremes,
which is what we want, and happens to fit the peculiarities of the
data in a convenient way. In particular, 1 have no exact informa-
tion as to the ages of the percipients of Expt. Ill (members of a
Workers Educational Association class) or of the Duke University
Oroup in Expt. TV. Almost certainly, however, all of these belong
to the central age group, which, for our present purpose may con-
veniently be omitted altogether, particularly as its mean age is
unlikely to be far from the general mean. The distribution of
percipients l)etween age groups and experiments is given below
Experiment I If Til TV V Total
Group A, under 25 26 20 9 22 77
,, B, 25 to 44 4 11 48 28 91
,, C, over 44 7 45 21 73
Unknown 3 7 10
Total 37 20 11 T05 78 251
Group A has 3-03 hits per percipient, with 34-8% Winners.
,, B ,, 2'61 ,, ,, ,, 3T6% ,,
» C „ 2-02 „ „ „ 40-1% „
There is a prima facie suggestion that older persons do slightly
better than younger, but it is quite unreliable for the same reasons
as before. Analysis of the variance gives
Source of Sum of Degrees of Mean
Variance Squares Freedom Square
Between Experiments, E 298-50 3 99-50
,, Age Groups, A 462-25 1 462-25
„ W & L, R 625-00 ] 625-00
Interaction, EA 3,310-25 3 1,103-42
„ er 738-50 o
o 246-17
„ AR 110-25 1 110-25
„ EAR 686-25 3 228-75
Total 6,231-00 15
As before, the Mean Sqxiare for the interaction in which we are
interested (AH) is less than that for Error, The data, accordingly
X2
Wlinidy Garington, M.A., M.Sc.
33S [part
afibrd no grounds for supposing that there is any association of
alulity with Age.
h. Jukifiery: in all experiments except the second percipients were
asked to note on each |)age of their drawing l)ooks whether they
exj)erienced good visual imagery ;
the plirase used was “ . . . a clear
picture ‘
in your Mind’s eye ’
Most did so, and I classified the
Idts under the four headings of Clear, Douhtful, None and Un-
recorded. The distribution of the hits scored by percipients of the
various ex])eriments, omitting hits by the percipients and on the
originals of Expt. II, was as follows :
Rx]icrinu‘u1 1 111 TV V Tota
(
'Icar dl If. 8« 104 271
1 )()ubtfnl 20 d 3i) 33 98
N()ii(‘ 22 10 d8 25 125
Unrecorded d 1 51 25 8d
Total 112 32 249 187 580
The proportions of Winners in the four classes iii order are 38-7%,
28-8% and 33-8% respectively. Drawings for which clear
visual imagery is reported appear to be slightly more successful
than those for which it is doubtful or lacking.
.Analysis of the variance gives
Smiree of 8um of Devices of Mean
X'ariance 8i| wares l''reedoin Squaie
Between E.x])eriments, E 1,805-00 3 601-67
,, Clear & None, 1 1 ,3.32-25 1 1,3.32-25
„ W & L, R 812-25 1 812-25
Interaction, El 248-75 o
.J 82-92
ER 298-75 3 99-58
IR 4-00 1 4-00
„ EIR 182-00 3 60-67
Total 4,683-00 15
The central class (Doubtful) has been omitted since it cannot
affect the issue, while the fourth (Unrecorded) is clearly irrelevant.
Again the Mean 8cpiare for the component in which we are interested
(I R) is smaller than that for Error, so that the data afford no reason
for concluding that the presence of visual Imagery favours success.
fi. Confidence : As in the case of Imagery, all percipients except
those of Expt. II were asked to record whether they felt confidence
in their attem|)t or not. The hits made by the percipients of the
164] Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 33'J
various experiments were distributed with respect to Confidence as
shown below :
Experiment 1 111 IV V Total
Good 19 10 51 59 139
Doubtful 1 10 7 18
None 82 21 148 98 349
Unrecorded 10 1 40 23 74
Total 112 32 249 187 580
The proportions of Winners in the four groups respectively arc
11-0%, 22-2%, 30-9% and 37-9%, suggesting that conhdent shots
were somewhat more successful than others.
Omitting the doubtful group as before, analysis of the variance
gives :
iSoiiree of Sum of l)ri;rec-s of Mean
\'ariance Sqiiare.s Freedom Sejuare
Between Experiments, E 3,969-00 3 1,323-00
,, Good & None, C 2,756-25 1 2,75C'2b
„ W & L, R 1,560-25 1 1,560-25
Interaction, EG 998-75 3 332-92
„ ER 2,132-75
o
O 710-92
GR 729-00 1 729-00
EGR 782-00 o
O 260-67
Total 12,928,00 15
In this case, the Mean Square for CR, in which we are iuterestetl,
is larger than that for Error ;
but the effect is far from significant
for the Variance Ratio is only 2-80, with F very little less than -2
and a long way from •0.9. The data accordingly furnish no groiuids
for concluding that there is any appreciable association between
success and Confidence.
7. Disenssion : The position at which we iinally arrive is, so to
say, doubly null and correspondingly unsatisfactory. We have
failed to detect evidence of signiticant superiority in respect of any
of the factors examined ;
l)ut 1 do not think that we are entitled
to conclude with assurance that, individually or collectively, they
make no difference, for our failure might be due either to insuffi-
ciency of data or in.sensitivity of method. Moreover, owing to the
somewhat complicated method of investigation forced upon us l)y
data being drawn from several different experiments, it is impracti-
cable even to estimate how great a difference the methofl would have
detected in any given case ;
thus we cannot, strictly, even say that
the difference, if any, must be very small. On the other hand, I think
we may reasonably conclude, speaking provisionally and with all
340 Whaldy Cariwjlon, M.A., M.Sc. [part
due reservation, that the differences are unlikely to be very large or
very important.
From the purely practical })oint of view we should probably do
well (since any evidence is a l)etter guide than none) to select
})ercipients from among Elderly Confident Image-forming Women
rather than from Imageless and Diffident Young Men, if we had
an unlimited choice ;
but there is certainly no warrant for
excluding from our experiments any type of percipient so far
investigated.
The question of whether we shall regard the provisional mdlity
of these results as disappointing or otherwise will depend on personal
teni])erament and on the views we hold regarding the kind of way in
which paranormal cognition ought to behave. Personally, I do not
ffnd them so, because my own impression, for what it is worth, is
that paranormal cognition—or at any rate that variety of it with
which we are concerned here—is an extremely deep-seated pheno-
menon, lying at the very foundations of human nature, so that I
do not tiiifl it surprising that differences of the kind we have been
examining here have a. negligible effect on its operation. Or we may
put it the other way round, if preferred, and ])rovisionally conclude
from these null results that, since these differences have no appre-
ciable effect, it must be a very deep-seated ]>rocess.
Apart from this, the ap])arent lack of association between success
and Vhsual Imagery deserves, 1 think a special word of comment.
1 find it almost imj)0ssible to su|)pose that such association should
be lacking if anything at all resembling seeiiiy were involved—if,
that is to say, the process were in any reasonalde sense ciairvoyavt.
So far as it goes, then, I am inclined to note this fact as evidence
against the '
clain oyant ’
and therefore in favour of the ‘
tele-
pathic ’
or '
jnirely mental '
view of the phenomena.
E. T\\'(j l’i:on»sEi) Kkeinements in 'rjOOIINIVlMO
I. Acicctinii (if Orlyitial'^ : It will be rememl)ered that, in all tin'
first five experiments exce])t the second, the words selected for illus-
tration as originals were determined by taking a, nund)er at random
from mathematical tables, turning up the corresponding ])age in a
dictionary and illustrating the “ first reasonably drawable word
found on or after that page ”. In the second experiment, numbered
and shuffled cards were randomly inserted between the leaves of a
dictionary and a similar procedure then followed. In Expt. VI,
I conq)iled a kind of artificial dictionary from which words were
I64j Experimenis un Earanonnal Cognition of Drawings 341
selected by throwing dice ;
and in Expt. VII I wrote suitable words
on slips of paper which were placed in separate envelopes and twdcc
shuttled before being picked out by the experimenters.
For the sake of saving trouble and similar reasons I also pre-
scribed a dictionary method, iising cards, for ii.se in the indepen-
dently conducted experiments now being carried out by various
experimenters ^
;
but it has two disadvantages and I propose to
change it, so far as practicable, in future work.
In the first place, it allows a certain small latitude to the experi-
menter as regards deciding whether a word is ‘
reasonably drawable
’
or not
;
and this might, theoretically speaking, lead to more or less
topical words being chosen in preference to others. I regard this
possibility as in the highest degree academic and there is certainly
no evidence for its ever having occurred ;
on the contrary, per-
cipients’ drawings show a surprisingly small number of liombs, guns,
aeroplanes, fire-engines and the like such as one might expect to find
at the present time. And 1 do not think anyone is likely to suggest,
in the case of my own five experiments, that Cows and Bottles,
Horses, Spectacles, Fans, Scis.sors, Jugs, Trees or Boats, etc., were
more topical in the periods in which they were used than in others.
Still, even such remote po.ssibilities may as well be elimiziated.
Much more serious from the jzractical point of view is the fact
that meticulously conscientious exjzerimenters are apt to avail
themselves too Uttlc of the latitude conveyed by the words “ reason-
ably drawable ” or the equivalent, and so to attempt the illustration
of unsuitable words. Experience tends to confirm the view pro-
vi.sionaIly exjzressed on page 47 of my first ])aper to the ettect that
the originals should reqzresent reasonably familiar olzjects and should
lie unambiguous. Too close an adherence to the rules of the dic-
tionary procedure might result in the use of originals rejiresenting,
say, Orrery, Autoclave, Arvbalus or the like, which few percipients
would recognise or be able to name even if they saw them ;
or again,
we might have two or more illustrations of virtual .synonyms, such
as Bull, Ox, Steer, Bullock, etc., and this also would handicap
the technique. This kind of thing has already shown itself in the
course of the independently conducted experiments referred to above.
‘ As an informal note of intore.st in jjassing, 1 may say that the.se indejiendent
experiments are shaping very well. Of .seven so far received, of slightly
different types, which have been scored ‘
blind ’
cither by the percipients
themselves, my wife or myself, all have given positive resnlts. One or two of
these strike me as having been somew'hat lucky, and I do not expect this rate
of success to continue ;
but unless something goes seriously wrong, it looks
as if we have a reasonable prospect of developing a strictly repeatable ex-
periment in tlue course.
342 Whalely Caringion, M.A., M.Sc. [part
From every point of view, therefore, the plan of using selected
words randomised Iry shuttling in envelopes before use, is to be
jjreferred wherever circumstances ])ermit. It may even prove i
desiral)le, for routine experiments, to adopt a standard list of, say .
100 or 200 words from which the number rec[uired would be ran-
domly selected for each exj^eriment or part thereof.
2. R(ni(lomiii(ttio)i, of Drawings : In that section of my hrst paper
which was devoted to ‘
Anticijjation of Criticism ’
1 was at great
pains to demonstrate (])]>. 124-5) that “ If tliere is no real effect, a
judge who does not know the answer cannot generate a spurious
one by any kind of wishful or misguided marking ”, and I con-
cluded that ” . . . it is literally impossible for any degree of fanciful-
ness, of prejudice ... or of eccentricity on the part of the judge to
generate anything Init a. chance effect if there is no non-chance
relationship Ijetween the drawings and the originals.”
The argument is souml, and the conclusion correct so long as we
mean that it is im])Ossil>le for the judge to adopt a ]jolicy which is
cniain to tend towards a siuirious positive result. On the other hand,
1 have recently discovered that there is a kind of mis-scoring which
could tend to ])roduce signiiicant positive results spuriously too often.
In principle, this is akin to the ‘
replication ’
effect to which Mr
Stevens drew attention,^ and I am again indebted to him for his
share in a stimulating correspondence, Init for which 1 should
probably not have pursued the (piestion furtlier.
The gist of Mr Stevens’ criticism then was that if a j:>ercipicnt
draws the same olpect (resembling some original) more than once
in the course of an experiment, and each drawing is credited with
a hit on the original it resembles, then the effect, mathematically
j
speaking, is the same as if nujre than one percij)icnt had inde-
pendently scored a hit ;
and this is not true. Consequently, the
assumptions on whicli tlie matliematical treatment is based are
invalidafed, and it can l)c shown tliaf the result will l)e to reduce
the variance relatively to the tliiference l)otween the observed and I
exjx'cted nunil)ers of winners, and thus to magnify the apparent
signiticance of wliatever result, whether positive or negative, may
be obtained. This is dealt with by striking out the rejilicate hits. ;
The ])oint to which 1 wisli to draw attention here is that, if the !
judge wrongfully {i.c., without there being a real re.semblance) j
credits a drawing by percipient 15 with a hit on original X because
percipient A, working in the same exjreriment, has scored a hit on
original X, then the same situation will arise ;
that is to say, it will
^ Proc. y.P.Jv., Part 1G3, Nov. Pj4t», pp. 256 sqq.
|
164]
Experiments on Paranormal Cognition of Drawings 343
appear as if more percipients have independently scored hits on X
than have actually done so, and the effect will be the same as that
described above. It is, of course, not easy to see how such a ten-
dency could arise, unless we postulate a (piite remarkable degree of
iniquity or feeble-mindedness on the part of the judge ;
but to make
the point clear T will illustrate with a somewhat fantastic example.
Perhaps the most striking hit in my first five experiments was that
l)y a percipient of Expt. II on the original Spinning Top used in that
experiment. Now suppose the judge had been so im])ressed I)y this
as immediately to form the conclusion that Spinning Top must be
one of the originals at which the percipients of that experiment
were aiming ;
he might then go on to back his opinion (in the ho])e
of generating a positive result) by crediting with a hit on Spinning
Top every drawing of Expt. II which coukl conceivably be thought
even remotely to resemble it (or, indeed, others that could not).
This would have the desired effect, for it would mean the crediting
of the percipients of Expt. II with a number of undeserved hits in
the right place, and if it were done on a l)ig enough scale it would
ensure that the result was not only positive but significant.
If on the other hand he were to put his money, so to say, on the
equally unmistakeable if less well-drawn Anchor, which one of these
percipients drew, he would produce or tend to produce a negative
result, for the Anchor was an original of Expt. I, not of II. And, in
general, any such attempt will produce a negative rather than a
positive result four times out of five, if there is no real effect
—
i.e.,
if a striking resemblance is no true indication that the original is
one of those aimed at by the percipient. In fact we have the
apparent paradox that a good way of faking a positive result is to
do something which you know will produce the required effect only
once on the average in every five attenqffs ! The solution is, of
course, that the procedure in question gives you a one in five chance
of pulling off, what may appear to be a thousand to one (say) shot ;
but it is hardly likely to commend itself in practice to anyone
wishing to fabricate spurious results.
The remedy would be to randomise the sets of drawings as well
as the originals ;
for, in this case, even if the hypothetically unjust
judge were right in his assuni])tion that percipient A’s drawing of
original X was a winning hit, he would not know which were A’s
co-percipients and so could not apply his assumed knowledge ;
and
a fortiori the effect could not arise unwittingly.
Again, this possibility appears to me to be more of academic than
of practical interest, though I think it would be wise to randomise
drawings as well as originals before scoring whenever practicable,
344 Whately Carmgfon, M.A., M.Sc. [part 164]
As regards my first five experiments, the supposition in question
is certainly not applicable at all to the 314 ‘
unmistakeables ’
for
which (lata are given in the last column of Table 5 (p. 99 of my
first paper) unless either Mr Hindson or I, or both, is to be regarded
as grossly misrepresenting facts or as pathologically stu])id ;
and I
am confident that the same applies to the hits placed in the top
four grades of my own scoring descrilied in III A above. On the
other hand, I think it would be unreasonable to deny altogether the
possibility that, where less palpable hits are concerned, the judge
might 1)6 in some minor degree influenced 1)y what has gone before ;
in ))articular, it seems to me, some original might be kept near the
forefront of his mind, so to speak, by the fact that a good hit had
just lieen scored on it; so that, though he would not mark an
obvious Tree for Fleur-de-Lys, say, or vice versa, he might be
fractionally swayed in favour of one or the other if it were a matter
of marking a vague scrawl which miglit equally well be either. Of
course, under the instructions issued, the judge has no business to
mark such far from pal])able hits at all, and the evidence indicates
that Mr Hindson did not in fact do so ;
for, even after the cream
has been skimmed from the milk l)y sulfiracting the 314 unmistake-
ables, the mean arbitrated figures, in which every item represents
at least two independent opinions given under different conditions,
still show a significant result.
But although one may argue on these lines, it is not really of
importance or of interest to do so, unless we consider, as 1 do not,
that the occurrence of paranormal cognition must forever stand or
fall by these experiments alone. My own view is that, while they
provide extremely .strong immediate evidence in favour of such
occurrence and a great deal of useful information, their more impor-
tant long term value is as experience in the light of which we can
devise a sound repeatable technique for routine use by others. On
this view, the discovery of minor imperfections such as this, which
cannot plausibly be held to invalidate the main results, is a .source
of satisfaction rather than otherwise.
My most grateful acknowledgments are due to Professor Cf D.
Broad, Mr E. G. Chambers, the late Mr Oliver Gatty, Dr J. O.
Irwin, and Dr E. H. Thouless for much valual)Ie help, encouragement
and advice at various stages of the work described in this and the
|)receding paper.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
PART 166
THE PRESENT POSITION OF EXPERIIvIENTAL RESEARCH
i'nto telepathy and related phenomena
By Robert H. Thouless, M.A., Ph.D.
Presidential Address delivered at a General Meeting of the Society on
1st May 1942.
May I begin by saying how very deeply I feel the honour which this
society has done me in electing me as its President. It is impossible to
consider the long line of distinguished past presidents of the Society for
Psychical Research without a reasonable fear that any address I may make
will appear a ragged intruder in such a distinguished series. I think it
safest not to attempt to compete with those whose addresses have made
important general contributions to thought about psychical phenomena,
but rather to limit myself to that part of the field of psychical research
and to those methods of study with which I happen to be familiar. The
only part of the field with which I can claim more intimate knowledge
than acquaintance through books is that generally known as “ extra-
sensory perception ”, and the only part of the study of extra-sensory
perception with which I can claim familiarity is its study by experimental
methods.
If, as an experimental psychologist, I limit myself in my present address
to the experimental study of extra-sensorj^ perception, this is not intended
to imply that I think that other methods of studying extra-sensory per-
ception, or that fields of study in psychical research other than extra-
sensorj' perception, are unprofitable or unimportant. There seems always
in our society a certain measure ol disagreement between those whose
interests lie in the study of spontaneous cases and those who prefer
statistical and experimental methods of investigation. I do not think that
there should be any disagreement ;
the difference is rather a division of
interests between two methods of pursuing the same end. In all psycho-
logical research the two methods of study are complementary to one
another, and neither can be pursued with maximum profit if the other
is neglected.
The special function of the study of spontaneous cases is to serve as a
guide to the problems to be investigated by experimental methods. It is
the clinical experience of disease in the world outside that guides research
in the bacteriological laboratory ;
it is experience of how dogs, cats, and
A
2 Robert H. Thouless, M.A., Ph.D. [part
rats behave in our houses and fields that guides (or should guide) research
in animal psychology. Neglect of this guidance may lead to sterility and
even to absurdity in laboratory experimentation. The worst experi-
menters in animal psychology are those who seem never to have made the
acquaintance of a dog outside their laboratory, and whose work lacks the
guidance which would have been given by having a pet dog of their own
who could have shown them what were the sensible questions for the
experimenter to ask.
So in psychical research, the choice is not between statistics and experi-
ment on the one hand and observation of spontaneous cases on the other.
Let us have much more of both. No one would have thought of asking a
subject to guess what card has been turned up in a pack, if someone else
had not reported spontaneous observations of telepathy or clairvoyance.
New problems for experimental investigation may be suggested* by new
observations of spontaneously occurring phenomena, although also, of
course, new problems for experimental investigation may be suggested by
experiments themselves.
Still less reason has the student of the experimental approach to extra-
sensory perception for throwing doubt on the relative importance of other
questions for psychical research, such as that of personal survival after
death. I think that few questions can be more important than that of
whether we survive the death of our bodies. On the other hand, the
experimental techniques acquired in a psychological laboratory do not
seem at present to provide a useful way of studying that question. Even
if in itself relatively unimportant, the study of extra-sensory perception
may have an added importance as a preliminary to the solution of the
more difficult question of the evidence for personal survival.
It is generally agreed in discussion of psychical research that if any
person can produce correct information on any topic there are three
possible explanations in order of increasing intrinsic improbability :
(rt) the information has been gained by normal sensory channels or by
rational inference, {b) it has been gained by extra-sensory perception, and
(r) It has been communicated by some discarnate intelligence. It is also
generally agreed that evidence for any of these explanations can only be
regarded as sufficient if the possibility of the preceding ones (presumed to
be less intrinsically improbable) has been excluded. It is obvious that,
wherever one adopts such a scale of explanation and such a principle of
exclusion, no explanation higher in the scale can ever be established unless
the limits of all those lower in the scale are already known. The proof
of extra-sensory perception has thus been doubted by those who preferred
to suppose that there was an indefinite upward extension of the powers of
normal sensory perception (the so-called “ sensory hyperaesthesia ”).
Formally this is obviously correct. If we agree not to regard as evidence
for extra-sensory perception any fact that can be explained by normal
sensory perception, then it is only by our knowledge of some limits to
the possibility of obtaining information by sensory perception that any
evidence for extra-sensory perception can be obtained. Explanations of
the phenomena of extra-sensory perception by sensory hyperaesthesia have
ne\er been generally accepted by psychologists (however sceptical they
may have been of the E.S.P. explanation on other grounds) because it has
IWI
lie
!
pe:
tar
iiW
i66] Present Position of Experimental Research into Telepathy, etc. 3
seemed to them that the limits of sensory perception were sufficiently well
known, and that in some cases, as, for example, the eye, the limits of
possible perception were clearly set by well-known physical factors and
that explanations by hyperaesthesia went beyond these limits. Since there
is no good evidence for sensory hyperaesthesia in any case, and since, m
^some cases, well attested facts of extra-sensory perception (such as
successful card guessing experiments over long distances) cannot be
explained by any extension of hyperaesthesia, the possibility of sensory
hyperaesthesia is no longer felt to be a serious obstacle to the acceptance
of evidence for extra-sensory perception.
There seems to be no corresponding certainty that we know the limits
of extra-sensory perception sufficiently well for it to be possible to regard
any evidence for spirit communications as sufficient if we admit the prin-
ciple that nothing is to be regarded as evidence that might be explained as
an effect of extra-sensory perception. The evidence, for example, of the
“ Lethe ” scripts for a communication from Dr Verrall depends on the
supposition that the fact that Mrs Willett possessed but had not read the
book by Dr Verrall containing the relevant information could not enable
her to produce that information by extra-sensory perception.^ Any
argument for accepting such a supposition must remain unconvincing in
the absence of any exact knowledge as to what are the limits of extra-
sensory perception. It is extremely likely that the possibilities of obtaining
information by extra-sensory perception have their own definite limits
although these limits are obviously very different from those of sensory
perception or rational inference. There also seems every reason to hope
that experimental study may one day give us a clear idea of what those
limits are. Certainly we do not know yet, but the experimental discovery
of the limits of extra-sensory perception has, amongst other things, the
value that it may be a necessary preliminary to a satisfactory assessment of
the evidence for survival.
I have so far used the term “ extra-sensory perception ” because that
is a name now generally understood. It is not with any enthusiasm for
introducing novelties in terminology that I propose now to drop that
term and to suggest a new one. The objection to the term extra-
sensory perception ” is that it suggests a theory of the nature of the
phenomenon in question, and I see no reason to suppose that this is a true
theory and some reason for suspecting that it is false. There is sorne
ambiguity in the exact implication of the term (particularly when it is
written in the shortened form E.S.P.) since it might be given two very
different meanings by the interchange of the hyphen and the space.
Thus we might mean “ extra sensory-perception ” or “ extra-sensory
perception ”.
The first of these is, I think, unobjectionable ;
it implies something of
a kind not further specified than that it lies outside sensory-perception.
This seems to indicate exactly the first objective of experiments on this
topic. The experimental subject is asked to give a report on something,
such as the turning up of cards, and the set-up of the experiment is directed
towards making it certain that he cannot perform the task by means of any
^ “ Some recent scripts affording evidence of personal survival, Rt. Hon. G. W.
Balfour, Proc. xxvii, (1914-15), pp. 221-43.
Robert H. Thouless, M.A., Ph.D.
«tu
[pari
indications provided to him by sensory perception. If he succeeds in th^
task, we are doing no more than giving an operational definition of th
capacity he has displayed if we say that he has succeeded by “ extra
sensory-perception ”, that is, by some means other than sensory perception
This, however, is not how Rhine (who invented the term) hyphens it,
and it is not what he means by it. Rhine’s term is “ extra-sensory per-i“
ception ”, not “ extra sensory-perception ”, and that has implications much'
more questionable. It seems to imply a kind of perception which is out-j
side sensation, that is, which is not occasioned by the operation of sensory
y
cues. That the effects we are speaking of are not occasioned by sensory*
cues seems clear enough, but are we so sure that it is a kind of perception?
Under experimental conditions, a successful subject reports correctly the
card turned up more often than he should if his correct answers were
merely random. But it appears that he does not know when he is guessing
right. That fact alone suggests a wholly different kind of mental operation
from that of perception. Can we then accept Osty’s term “ metagnomy ”?
I think not for the same reason ;
it does not seem to be a kind of knowing.
A mere successful reaction not accompanied by any awareness of being
right or wrong is not ” knowledge ” any more than it is “ perception ”.
It must, I think, be admitted that many cases of spontaneously reported
telepathy take the form of a mental presentation apparently telepathically
determined and that they might, therefore, be considered to he mental
events of the same kind as perceptions, but this does not alter the fact that
so-called extra-sensory perception need not have this character and that it
apparently does not in such cases as card-guessing experiments.
It would be pedantic to object to a misleading terminology unless it,
in fact, misleads. I think that this term may be seriously misleading since
it leads us to put these effects within a framework of expectations in which
ordinary perception is placed. They may belong to a totally different
framework, requiring quite different expectations and quite different
modes of thought to deal with. Perception lies, for example, within the
system of scientific causation, but it may be necessary for our thought to
abandon this system of expectations if we are to understand paranormal
determination of correct responses.
The same objection may be urged against the earlier terms :
“ tele-
pathy ”, “ clairvoyance ”, and “ precognition ”. In Greek, French and
Latin respectively, these terms imply that the effects dealt with belong to
the class of feeling, of seeing, and of knowing. I do not suppose that the
choice of these three different generic terms for these three phenomena
was anything but accidental, or that the fact that all three were different
meant anything except that those who devised these names felt confusion
and uncertainty as to what class of mental fact the phenomena belonged to.
There is, of course, the further objection to these terms that they imply
that we have here three different kinds of phenomenon, whereas there may
be only one phenomenon in which neither the presence of knowledge in
any other person’s mind nor restriction of response to the present time is
essential. That clairvoyance and telepathy are not separate phenomena
is suggested by Rhine’s observation that his subjects score about the same
whether the experimenter turns up a card and looks at it or simply slips
it off the pack without looking at it. Dr Soal has worked with a subject
fif
I
*66] Present Position of Experimental Research into Telepathy, etc. 5
•
/hose hits were not on the card turned up but on the card one ahead of the
ne turned up. In recent experiments I have found a significant excess
f hits on the card two ahead. This seems inexplicable on the hypo-
hesis of simple telepathy since the next card but one is no more known
y normal means to the agent than it is to the subject. If we use the
raditional terms we might call it either “ precognitive telepathy ” {i.e.
jreknowledge of something that will be known to the agent in a short
me) or “ clairvoyance ” (of the fact of the card being next but one in the
lack although this is not known to the agent), or we might assume tele-
athic knowledge by the subject of something known by precognition or
lairvoyance to the agent.
Alternatively we may adopt the hypothesis that there are not three pro-
esses, but one process, which does not show that restriction to present time
nd to present sensory stimulation that is characteristic of the determina-
on of right reactions by ordinary sense perception, and which may be
ifluenced in some way by knowledge in another person’s mind, but which
oes not require this as an essential condition for its occurrence. If we
dopt this as a working hypothesis, I think we should, for the reasons
iven above, avoid the term “ extra-sensory perception ”, and use some
;rm that implies no theory as to the kind of mental process this is. I
aggest that we should use a term proposed by Dr Wiesner, and call this
roup of effects the “ psi phenomena ”, a term which has the important
egative merit that it implies no theory as to their nature.
If experimental psychologists have, on the whole, been slow to accept
le reality of the psi phenomena, this is to be explained partly by the
ifficulty of repeating at will the successful results which others have
sported, partly by the intrinsic improbability of the phenomena themselves,
t is to be hoped that the first of these difficulties will be got over by
jrther experimentation on the conditions favourable to the appearance of
ae phenomena. The literature of the subject contains many hints as to
ivourable conditions, but these seem generally to be based on the im-
ressions gathered by experimenters in the course of their work rather than
n exactly controlled experiments establishing significant differences in
sores obtained under one condition and another. Although gathered in
le course of experiments, this evidence is, therefore, largely anecdotal,
t is reported, for example, that bodily relaxation and the taking of alcohol
re favourable to positive results, while fatigue and illness of the subject
,
re unfavourable. This situation poses, as an important problem to be
1 etermined by experimental methods, the finding by exact methods of the
i ptimal conditions for the appearance of the psi phenomena. When we
'
now this, it is possible that we shall no longer be dependent on occasional
abjects or on large scale experiments for successful results. It ought
) be possible by suitable training of our subjects and by suitably arranged
onditions to produce successful results anywhere. When this is possible,
le main rational defence for rejection of the experimental evidence for the
henomena will disappear. Anyone will be able to produce the evidence
)r himself by carrying out the experiments in the right way.
On the intrinsic improbability of the psi phenomena, there seems to be
ame difference of opinion. Against those who think the intrinsic im-
robability so great that they find themselves unable to be convinced by
Robert H. Thouless, M.A., Ph.D. [pap
IS)':
ipli)
ISO
I'C
a weight of evidence far in excess of what would be regarded as decisiv
in any other field of research, there are others who seem to find nothin
intrinsically unlikely in the facts reported. I should like to suggest th:
there is a real intrinsic improbability in the psi phenomena, and it ma
perhaps be worth while to consider for a few moments what this assertio
of intrinsic improbability means.
The psi phenomena are, I think, improbable because they are oppose
to an important and well-founded system of expectations, that based o
natural science. Scientists occasionally say that the basic principle c
science is to follow the evidence wherever it may lead. Undoubtedly
there is much to be said for being prepared to be convinced of anythin
whatever if there is sufficient evidence for it, but I do not think that it i
peculiar to the scientific habit of mind or even particularly characteristi
of it. If science had claimed no more than this for itself, I do not think i
would have gained the tremendous prestige which it has accumulate
during the last three hundred years. I suggest rather that the real strengt
of science is that it has claimed to be a method of deciding what kinds ci
,
things can happen and what can not. That is how the advance of scienc
during the last few hundred years has eliminated belief in magic, i:
astrology, and all the other things commonly classed as superstitions, no
by disproving their reality separately by experimental investigation, but b
building up an experimentally based system of expectations which has le(
men to feel convinced that these are the kind of things that do not happen
If, for example, the scientifically educated man finds himself withou
any apparent cause becoming weak or ill, he is not ready to accept tb
explanation (which he might have accepted if he had lived in the Middl
Ages or if he lived in a pre-scientific culture at the present day) that ai
enemy w'as working magic against him and had perhaps made a wax imag
of him into which he was sticking pins or which he was melting before ;
slow fire. On the other hand, he is ready to accept the scientific explana
tion that he is suffering from pernicious anaemia. The remedy he wil
expect to be effective is not that somebody should be burned at the staki
but that he himself should drink large doses of liver extract.
Yet it is probable that no-one has ever done a properly controllec
experiment which has proved that making a wax image of a person anc
melting it in front of a fire does not cause that person to fall ill and die
To anyone who has within himself the scientific system of expectations
such an experiment would be felt to be unnecessary because this is th(
kind of thing that the scientific system of expectations would lead him tc
say cannot happen. This system of expectations leads to acceptance o
some kinds of alleged causes of illness as effective (such as infections .
‘
changes in bodily organs, etc.) and others, such as charms and magica (
practices, as not effective.
If we ask what sort of causes were accepted and what rejected by th(l|,;_
scientific system of expectations, the answer in its broad outlines is suffi-
ciently obvious. The essential characteristic of the scientific type ol
explanation was that one thing could only cause another if there were af
continuous chain of physical events between the two. There is the neces-jj
sary physical continuity between the failure of one’s bodily organs tc'
produce a sufficient number of red corpuscles and a wasting disease, bul"
Ni
tm
Jatt
dsi
it(
66] Present Position of Experimental Research into Telepathy, etc. 7
one between the melting of a wax image unknown to the patient and a
imilar illness. The essential principle is m no wise changed by the tact
lhat a more modern scientist may say that if an Australian aborigine knows
hat a wax image of himeslf is being melted before a fire, he may produce
he symptoms of a wasting disease by suggestion. The chain of continuity
f physical causation is then complete, from the tact of the wax image, to
he sound waves of a verbal report, to the events m the ear and nervous
Vstem of the patient when he hears the report, to the reaction ot his bodily
.rganism to that report. The scientist is inclined to welconie such an
:xplanation ;
it brings the fact alleged within the system of scientific
In the same way the facts of ordinary perception, although they may be
^•alled wonderful and mysterious, fit very well within the system o
xpectations of physical science. In visual perception, electro-magnetic
'vaves come from the object to the eye, on the surface of the retina they
Produce chemical changes which start an impulse along a nerve hbre to
i
he visual area of the cerebral cortex. If we ignore the problem of how a
material change in the cerebral cortex is related to the conscious process of
perception, and confine ourselves to the physical processes between e
jmission of rays from a material object and the completion of a muscular
pr glandular response on the part of the organism, the continuity ot the
:hain of physical events is complete. , ..u i r
If anywhere the chain appears incomplete, it is an accepted method o
science to postulate a material event where there appears to be a gap. I.et
us suppose, for example, that a scientifically educated burglar tries to
'steal a gold cup protected by a burglar alarm operated by mtra-red light.
As his hand approaches the cup, a bell rings. His first reaction may be
^bewilderment ;
something has happened which his system of expctations
gave him no ground to foresee. If he had touched a wire or a thread, the
matter would be simple ;
he would suppose that he had established
''continuity in some way with the bell. But, if he is scientifically educated, e
will not fall back on the pre-scientific explanation that might satisfy a
savage. He will suppose there is something there, which he cannot see or
feel, but which is just as real as a wire or string. Quite likely, remembering
fcwhat he knows of wireless, he will hit on the correct explanation that his
‘
hand has interrupted an invisible series of waves. Then the event will no
^longer be mysterious ;
he will have postulated continuity where a gap
appeared in the chain of physical events, and the ringing of the bell will
fall within the system of causation to which his scientific education has
made him accustomed. .
If ordinary visual perception falls within the system of scientihc expec-
tations because it preserves the principle of continuity of material causa-
tion, the psi phenomenon does not. It is, therefore, inevitable that the
first reaction of the scientific mind should be to relegate it to the class o
things which science teaches us do not happen. I think it does belong
to that class. If so, there are three things to be done about it ;
(i) to say
that the psi effects do not take place and that those who report them are
either incompetent experimenters, or frauds, or the unfortunate vicUms o
*
a vast system of chance coincidences ; (2) to postulate some unknown
cause which would reduce the phenomena to a kind admitted by science.
8 Robert H. Thotiless, M.A., Ph.D. [PAE
wsii
ca?i
as, for example, by postulating some unknown form of radiation ;
or (;
to accept the phenomena as genuine and as not fitting into the system (
scientific expectations, and as requiring, therefore, a modification of on
system of expectations.
Before this audience, it is not necessary to argue the impossibility c
accepting the first alternative. Even before the laborious and extensiv
investigations of Rhine, Soal, and Tyrrel, had produced experimental an
statistical evidence of an overwhelming character, it was arguable tha
the case was sufficiently proved by sporadic evidence alone. Our distin
guished former president, Bergson, in his address to this society, state(
that he was convinced by evidence of this kind, and Rhine has state(
that he considered the evidence conclusive for the reality of telepath;
before his own laborious researches added fresh evidence. There is
however, one important advantage for proving the reality of psi tha
experimental evidence controlled by a proper use of statistical methods ha;
over the observation of spontaneous cases and over experimentation t(
which statistical checks can be less easily applied. This advantage lie;
in the fact that it is possible to give a figure indicating how unlikely it is
that we are being misled by chance coincidences. We may say that eIT
spontaneous case or a series of spontaneous cases shows too many details hi
of correspondence to be explicable by chance. If, however, a sceptic says l"
^
that he tfiinks nevertheless that it is due to chance coincidence, we have no :
|
reply except to reassert our own interpretation. It is more satisfactory ! .
to be able to reply that the odds against a result having occurred by chance
0[iH
is some definite figure—a thousand to one, a million to one, or more.
It remains true that some sceptics do say that the odds of billions to one
against a chance interpretation of modern experimental results are merelyi
a lucky accident. I do not think that this should be found surprising or
particularly disturbing ;
no evidence can compel belief in those who are
sufficiently determined not to believe. It is still satisfactory to the experi-
menter that he can produce a figure which is a measure of his opponent’s
will not to believe.
Odds of more than millions to one against a chance interpretation of
results are not particularly interesting since, by the time that limit is
reached, the explanation that the whole thing is a conspiracy of fraud be-
comes at least as likely. That all of the successful experimenters on this
subject are deceiving us as to their results or are deceiving themselves is
obviously very unlikely, but that too is a possible explanation if we are
willing to admit extreme improbabilities rather than the reality of the psi
phenomenon. Empirical methods of research can never give certainty ;
wildly improbable coincidences are a possibility, and human fallibility is
also a possible source of error. All that we can reasonably demand is that
evidence for the psi phenomena should be strong enough for reasonable
conviction even for an intrinsically unlikely effect. That point has, I
think, been passed, and the reality of the phenomena must be regarded as
proved as certainly as anything in scientific research can be proved.
Accepting the reality of psi, we may seek to fit it into the existing
framework of scientific explanations in the same sort of way as we sup-
posed the burglar fitted in the operation of the infra-red burglar alarm.
We may postulate some form of unknown radiation received by some
k
sie
>tu
:ls
i66] Present Position of Experimental Research into Telepathy, etc. 9
unknown sense organ. Such explanations have had the support of great
names in the past (such as Crookes and Ostwald). Against them, we must
consider a respect in which the case is not altogether parallel to that of our
imagined infra-red burglar alarm. The initial reason for the burglar
postulating some unknown form of radiation was to fill in a gap in the chain
of physical causation, but, if he stops to experiment, he may find a better
reason for confirming this guess. He may find some independent way of
showing that there is some radiation occupying the path in which his
hand was when the bell rang. If he happened to have a blackened thermo-
pile in his kit, he might, for example, trace the path of the radiation by
observing its heating effects. The reason for our confidence in the scien-
tific type of explanation is that the entities we postulate to fill such gaps
can be shown to have other properties by which their reality can be
confirmed. We do not know light waves only by their action on the eye ;
if we did there might still be reason for doubting their reality. We know
them also by their action on photo-chemical substances, by their heating
effects, and so on. An unknown form of radiation of which we have no
knowledge except its action in the psi effect and an unknown sense organ
similarly known only in this way and undetected by anatomical investi-
gation, lack plausibility as scientific hypotheses and can only be regarded as
desperate expedients to save the system of scientific expectations.
There is, of course, also the argument which has often been urged that
we know of no kind of radiation which does not lose its effect with distance,
and that even if we explain such facts as the success of Rhine’s subjects in
reading packs of Zener cards “ down through ” by supposing that some
form of radiation proceeded from the cards, it is impossible to see how any
form of radiation could enable the subject separately to perceive the cards
low down in the pack. Still less is it possible to conceive how any form of
radiation could enable a subject to discriminate at a great distance a
particular pack from all other packs and all other objects which must be
supposed to be sending out similar radiations.
We seem then to be forced to accept the third possibility—that the psi
phenomena are real and that they are not explicable in terms of the
scientific expectations based on the necessity for physical continuity in
chains of cause and effect. This would not, of course, mean that we
suppose that the system of scientific expectations is wholly mistaken.
That would be absurd in view of the remarkable success which has been
achieved in building up a means of controlling the outside world by
following that system of expectations. The refinement of optical instru-
ments, the construction and improvement of various types of engines, the
!|
control of disease by processes of immunisation and by surgery, are a few
('I
only of the practical triumphs of the scientific point of view. They have
been attained by attributing to effects the kind of causes which science
leads us to expect and by rejecting the kinds of causes that science rejects.
It is clear that over a very large field of phenomena, this system of expec-
tations has proved a trustworthy guide. It remains possible that there is
also a field in which it is not a trustworthy guide. The psi phenomena
appear to be such a field. There may be others. Possibly the human
will is one. The denial of the freedom of the human will has been general
amongst those accepting the scientific point of view for the last few cen-
lO Robert H. Thouless, M.A., Ph.D. [pari
'tti
ifti
::jn
Tb
,aMs
aid
SOS
Itp!
turies. But if the principle of continuity as accepted in natural science
does not hold for any field, however limited, there remains the possibilitji
that it does not hold in some other field. This opens up disturbing
possibilities. Perhaps many would welcome the undermining of an
argument against human freedom, but the denial of the universal applica-
bility of scientific expectations seems to open the door to other discarded
beliefs, such as the belief in magic, astrology, the evil eye, and other
things condemned as superstitions by science. The worst that can happen,
however, is that one barrier against these beliefs may go ;
there may
remain other reasons for rejecting them. If we can no longer accept the
scientific system of expectations as an infallible guide, many things
become possible that would previously have been regarded as impossible.
But not all things become true, and we may still reasonably believe that the
things I have mentioned are superstitions without rational foundations ;
the only change is that our reasons for rejecting them are somewhat
different than they were before.
There is also the very difficult question of how we are to think of psi
phenomena if we are not to try to fit them into the framework of the |isu
scientific system of expectations. Are we to postulate a type of continuity
between cause and effect different from that in the kind of causation
recognised by natural science, and if so how are we to think of this con-
tinuity? I do not think we are in a position yet to answer these questions.
If the way of thinking appropriate to the psi phenomena is to become clear,
it must be by more research and by new ranges of speculative thinking. I
do not feel myself competent in the field of speculative thinking, and I have
no positive suggestions to offer. I have only the negative suggestion to
make that the first step is to eradicate from our minds the influence of the
deeply ingrained habits of thought which make up the scientific system of
expectations. These are deeply ingrained, and they are influencing us
when we start thinking in terms of unknown radiations- I think we un-
necessarily tempt them to exert their influence when we talk of these
phenomena as if they were a kind of perception. It is as part of this nega-
tive process of preparation for new ways of thinking that I have suggested
the rejection of the term “ extra-sensory perception ”. As to what are the
Itie-
tn
appropriate ways of thinking about these phenomena, I have no idea. I jai
torr
|Mni
do not think that we have them yet.
Already I think there are indications in the results of experiments which
would guide us in our thinking if we knew how to interpret them. One of
the most encouraging signs in the experimental research on this subject
at the present time is that we have not merely shown that psi phenomena
can be demonstrated under experimental conditions, but that our results
are showing odd, unexpected and (at present) inexplicable uniformities
which are cropping up independently in different laboratories. No
scientific research worker can feel quite so well satisfied with results that
come out exactly as he expected them to, as with results which persistently
come out as he had no previous reason to expect. Here he feels he is |lai
against the hard rock of a reality independent of his expectations ;
here jud
is a challenge to his powers of constructive speculation. Jloe
For example, Rhine found that if he made his subjects continue their
experiments beyond the point at which they were thoroughly bored with
|tsp-
j*c
tli
66] Present Position of Experimental Research into Telepathy, etc. 1
1
hem, they began to score persistently below mean chance expectation.
it least two other investigators working independently of Rhine have
eported the same result. A drop to mean chance expectation would be
:asy to understand, but a drop that is significantly below mean chance
ixpectation is entirely unexpected. Rhine explains it as an inhibition of
he psi function. It may be so ;
I shall suggest later that there may be
mother explanation. In any case, we have here a point at which the
ixperimental facts challenge us to answer the question “ Why ?” and
- vhen we can answer it we shall be a step nearer to understanding psi.
llf There is also the discovery, originally made by Mr Whately Carington,
)f what may be called “ temporal dislocation ” of responses. He found
in his experiments on pictures exposed on successive nights that subjects
night not draw a picture resembling the one exposed during the night on
which they made the reproduction but one resembling some picture
ixposed on some other night, or even in some other series of experiments,
;he probability of such a hit decreasing with the remoteness of the original
pi'rom the occasion of the reproduction. This observation was not in itself
*of sufficient statistical significance to carry overwhelming conviction to
hose who would regard such temporal dislocation as too improbable for
oelief without coercive evidence. It led, however, to Mr Soal’s re-
isxamination of the results he had obtained in his repetition of Rhine s
ixperiments, and, although his intervals were so different from those of
Whately Carington (a second or so instead of a day), he found, with some
subjects, evidence of correct guessing with temporal dislocation that was of
unquestionable significance.
'
I think that Whately Carington’s discovery is of the greatest importance.
On the theoretical side, it shows that psi reactions (already proved to be
relatively independent of space by Rhine and other experimenters who
ffiave obtained successful results over great distances), show also an
'indefiniteness with respect to time, and that successful psi results may be
determined by a future event even when the intention of the experimental
[Subject is to make them refer to the present time.
This discovery also seems to have important consequences for experi-
mental practice. In the past, it has been usual, as in the work of Rhine
and Tyrrell, to regard as evidence of psi functioning, the ability to guess
correctly the card turned up. Now we can consider that as only a special
case of psi activity, and it seems likely that success in psi experiments is
even more widespread than is indicated by Rhine’s e.xperiments since
many people doing a card guessing test may not get appreciably more
right than mean chance expectation on the card turned up, but may be
consistently getting hits on some other card. Traditional methods of
experimenting would erroneously class these as showing no psi success.
Also it is possible that differences between the results of different
experimenters may be due to differences between those who get hits on
the card turned up and those who do not. For example, Rhine reports
that his subjects score equally well under pure clairvoyance conditions
and under conditions in which the agent sees the card turned up. Soal
does not get success in pure clairvoyance conditions, and I do not. But
we were working with subjects showing temporal dislocation and Rhine
was working with subjects guessing on the card turned up, and this may
12 Robert H. Thotiless, M.A., Ph.D. [par
fiJi
sin
isper
be the reason for the difference between our results. The so-callei
inhibition of psi observed by Rhine and others when subjects have gone oi
too long at one sitting must also be reconsidered in the light of the fact
of temporal dislocation. Suppose that there is no inhibition, but that th
result of the continuation of the experiment is that subjects tend to star
getting hits one or two ahead of or behind the card turned up. Sucl
temporal dislocation would cause a decrease of score in a pack limited tf
five cards of each kind such as Rhine uses (though not in a pack of randon
constitution such as that used by Soal) since a guess determined by somt
other card would be less likely to be right as judged by the card turned up
An examination of Rhine’s score sheets would show whether this was, if
fact, taking place. If so, the explanation is quite a different one from thai
of inhibition.
Another practical point is the desirability, if temporal localisation is
possible, of adopting some system of regional scoring, as, for example, b}'
®
counting hits, not on the card turned up, but on any card within a region oli
five about the one turned up. This is the scoring method that I am nowj‘“f
using. The Zener pack with five cards each of five different kinds is,|
“
however, quite unsuitable for such a method of scoring since the rnean*'^
chance expectation of hits becomes so high as to make the test unworkably
insensitive. For this method of scoring, it is desirable to have a larger
number of individuals in the pack and consequently a lower mean chancel®'
expectation of success. I have, therefore, now returned to the old method
of using playing cards, so having fifty-two different individuals in the pack"!-’-;'
instead of five. Unfortunately it appears as if the rate of psi scoring is'™
decreased as the number of alternative responses is increased, so the greater '“J
sensitivity of the playing card pack is partly counterbalanced by a lowered
rate of scoring. For many purposes, fifty-two individuals is not enough,
and for exact study of temporal displacement, it would be better to have
the number of chance determined successes very small compared with
those indicating genuine psi success. I am, therefore, experimenting with
methods in which the chance expectation is very much smaller than with
a pack of playing cards, so far without success.
Another unexpected feature of experimental results is the tendency of
temporal dislocation, on the whole, to be in the direction of guessing
ahead. I understand that Soal in his latest work has found his subject
guessing ahead. In my own experiments, that also is the tendency. If
this is general, we must again ask “Why?” Still odder was Seal’s
finding of a tendency for the guesses just before the card turned up to be
below mean chance expectation. I have found indications of the same
tendency, although my minimum is not itself significant, and I should
attach no importance to it if it had not been more adequately shown by
Soal. It looks as if the probability of the response to a card increased to a
maximum some seconds before it was turned up, then declined to a point j®**
at which it was less likely that that response was given than any other F®
response, as if the subject at the minimum point both knew the card and i
^
also knew that it was not a correct response but belonged to the past.
Again if we could explain why this is so, we might hope to advance in I®®
understanding of the phenomena. die
Even the experimental results achieved so far have given us many
men
Call
ffiei
:fas
lattl
»stai
Slit
tedi
ndd
SOB
:du|
Dtk
i66] Present Position of Experimental Research into Telepathy, etc. 13
unsolved problems which give hope of future more complete under-
standing.
I wish now to turn to another question—that of the aims which experi-
mentalists should now set themselves in studying the psi phenomena.
Rhine complained in his first book that, in this field, every experimenter
regards it as his task to prove the reality of the phenomena all over again
ias if it had never been done before. If it was arguably necessary when
Rhine started his work, it surely is so no longer. By different methods, a
number of workers have obtained under stringent experimental conditions
positive results which cannot reasonably be attributed to chance or to
experimental error. The work of obtaining these results has been labor-
ious, and great credit is due to those who have undertaken it. A mere
repetition of that work now would be a great waste of time. Let us get on
to other problems, to be solved by other methods. If we meet with sceptics
jj
i, as to the reality of the phenomena we are studying, let us refer them to the
'j. researches of Rhine, of Soal, and of Tyrrell and not succumb to the
ID
temptation of trying to satisfy them ourselves.
The reason for calling this a temptation is that the methods appropriate
^j!to a research intended to establish the reality of the phenomena are not
generally appropriate to a research intended to elucidate the character and
the conditions of the phenomena. The investigator seeking to establish
the reality of the phenomenon repeats his experiments a large number of
times under identical conditions. He aims at getting enormous odds
against a chance explanation of his results and .is unwilling to introduce
variations in method which may be unfavourable to positive results and
,'may therefore reduce the' significance of his total score. He also feels it
necessary to safeguard himself against critics who will attribute his results
to dishonesty or incompetence, so he has one or more impartial witnesses
as observers of his experiments whose testimony can establish that he
has obtained the results he says he has under the conditions he has
described.
Indefinite reduplication of witnessed experiments has been valuable in
the past when the primary object of experimenters was to establish the
reality of the phenomena. If we agree that this reality has now been
sufficiently established, the need for these methods has passed and they
'should not be allowed to become standardised methods for future experi-
ments. When experimenters have as their primary purpose the under-
standing and control of the phenomena, frequent variation of conditions
is necessary, and those variations will be most fruitful of results which
lead to reduction or extinction of the phenomena. Workers must be
content with such moderate standards of significance as are used in other
branches of scientific research, since the time available for any course of
experiments is limited, and time spent in reduplication of experiments
under identical conditions is time lost for the more important task of
working under variable conditions.
Even the provision of witnesses, valuable for the establishment of the
reality of the occurrence of an unlikely phenomenon, may be an impedi-
ment to research once that reality has been established. The work of
a research worker in any other field (let us say on the psychology of colour
[
vision) would be badly held up if all his experiments had to be witnessed.
lira
ha«
etk
:pai
inji
real
ffli
ki
ml
ml
mil
Robert H. Thouless, M.A., Ph.D. [part;
Time is limited and possible witnesses with expert knowledge of experi-
mental methods are busy with their own tasks. Insistence on the presence
of witnesses must have the effect of reducing frequency of experiment and
freedom of variation of condition. Once the reality of the phenomena is
taken as established, witnessing is no more necessary than in any otheri
branch of scientific investigation. Undoubtedly there will be error and
incompetence in experimental research in this as in all other topics. It
will be subjected to the usual check that an erroneous finding by one,
worker will be corrected by the confirmatory work of others. It is true
that not every laboratory has a successful experimental subject available, but
already there are probably more independent workers on the psi pheno-
mena than on any other psychological topic, and it is an encouraging fact
that even odd and unexpected results are being confirmed by independent
workers. The check of independent confirmation is working to a very
considerable extent.
It may be objected that although we think the reality of the phenomena
is sufficiently established, future ages may not. The early experimentalists
were satisfied with results which are now generally regarded as incon-
clusive. May not future workers adopt more stringent criteria of reality
and find our experiments also inconclusive ? Certainly they may, and if they
do, let them do their own more stringent experiments of verification.
Further repetition of the type of experiments for proving the reality of;
the psi phenomena which we have been doing will not convince future
generations if they are not convinced by what has already been done. I wish
only to argue that the question of reality has been settled for the present
and so far as we can settle it. We must leave to the future the problem
of what criteria would satisfy the future.
If we agree that the type of experimental research in the psi phenomena
now necessary is one in which we try to find out as much as we can about
the phenomena by experiments in which conditions of working are varied
as much as possible, we are immediately faced by the practical difficulty
which is perhaps the principal obstacle at present to fruitful research along
these lines. In any experimental research, mere random variation of
conditions of experiment is not enough. We must vary our conditions in
such a way as to try to obtain answers to definite questions. The most
pressing need to further fruitful research is that we should know what
questions to ask. The questions partly arise out of the research itself
;
they are partly initiated by the propounding of suitable hypotheses.
Thus research on colour vision has been largely directed by the three-
colour hypothesis put forward by Young and elaborated by Helmholtz.
This hypothesis may be right or wrong, but there can be no question as to
its fruitfulness. Researches directed by it have solved many more problems
than could have been solved by random or undirected research, although it
happens that the problem of whether or not there are three primary colour
processes has not yet been solved. It does not matter much now if this
hypothesis proves to be wrong. The positive results of investigations
inspired by it would remain as evidence of the fruitfulness of the hypo-
thesis.
I think it is a misfortune of our subject that speculation about the psi
processes has not been fruitful of problems for research. Speculation there
iatl
ifat
may
stha
Bpet
pvf
mdi
i(s[
|U!
'T(
i66] Present Position of Experimental Research into Telepathy, etc. 15
has been in plenty, but not of the kind required by the experimental worker.
°fiSpeculations, for example, about the psi processes as products of a
“ subliminal self ” may be of genuine value, but they have not this value
that they set problems for experimental investigation. It is speculations
of a different type that we still need. The test of the speculation which
may be expected to be fruitful for the direction of experimental research
is that it should lead to clearly defined expectations which may be tested
experimentally. Our problem then is to devise an experiment which can
prove whether these expectations are fulfilled. If we find they are not,
then the hypothesis is proved to be wrong and a step forward has been
taken. If they are fulfilled then the hypothesis may be right, and we must
find more expectations to test. The fruitful hypothesis is not necessarily
the true one. Indeed any hypothesis we think of in our arm-chairs is
likely to turn out to be not wholly adequate to the facts. But in the testing
of it and the finding out of where it is inadequate, we are achieving our
goal of advancing our understanding of the phenomena in question.
It is my impression that we have been lacking in such hypotheses and
that consequently much of the research in the psi phenomena has been
undirected and unfruitful. It is probably a much more difficult subject
to speculate on than is colour vision, and it may demand new and un-
familiar ways of thinking. But let us not forget that it is a need no less
urgent than that of continued experimental research. The only limitation
of speculation useful in this way is that it should pose definite problems
for experimental investigation, that it should lead to experimentally
verifiable expectations which we can clearly state.
Let us not be deterred from bold speculation by the fear lest our specu-
lations should be wrong. The process of speculation and experimental
testing is a self-correcting one. It does not matter if a specula,tion is
wrong ;
if so if will be proved wrong by experiment, and that will be a
step forward. The caution which we properly observe in drawing con-
clusions from our experiments is out of place in the preliminary task of
devising hypotheses to be tested.
I cannot, of course, suggest what these fruitful hypotheses may be ,
1
can only state what has been the hypothesis that has guided nay own
researches in the psi phenomenon. This is a point of view which has
been reached in discussion between Dr. Wiesner and myself and, in wMt
follows, it would be impossible to disentangle the contributions made by
us both. JUT}
The essential point from which we start is that expressed by bergson
in his Presidential address to this Society. To Bergson, the brain was not
an organ whose function is that of transforming material vibrations into
mental states but an “ instrument of selection charged with choosing, m
the immense field of our virtual perceptions, those which are to be actual-
ised ”. “ I think ”, he says, ” that we perceive virtually many more things
, • 11 1.1 . 1 _ 4-U^ r\nr Knn\r
than we perceive actually, and that here once more the part that our body
plays is that of shutting out from our field of consciousness all that is of
no practical interest to us, all that does not lend itself to our action.
Telepathy is the only aspect of the psi function which Bergson considers,
and he suggests that this is an action between personalities analogous to
the phenomena of endosmosis, and he continues : If such endosmosis
i6 Robert H. Thouless, M.A., Ph.D. [part'
ft£
(lt(
liltC
ila
li
exists, we can foresee that nature will have taken every precaution toi
neutralise its effect, and that certain mechanisms must be specially charged'
with the duty of throwing back into the unconscious the presentations so'
provoked, for they would be very embarrassing in everyday life One or|
another of these presentations might yet, however, at times pass through
as contraband, especially if the inhibiting mechanisms were functioning
badly.” In other words, Bergson thought of the psi function (or rather
the only aspect of it which he considered) as a possible kind of reaction
normally suppressed because unserviceable for the demands of practical
life, and kept suppressed so long as the organism maintained the attitude
of attention to life, but liable to manifest itself under conditions in which
that controlling mechanism was thrown out of action by the development
of an attitude of inattention to life. It is curious that, having put forward a
point of view which seems so suggestive of possibilities for experimental
research, Bergson should have shown no interest in this aspect of his
hypothesis, but argued instead that it was necessary to start the study of
telepathy by the historical and not the experimental method.
Let us adopt Bergson’s speculation as a starting point and consider its
general plausibility, how we may profitably amplify it, and how it may be
used as a guiding hypothesis for experimental research.
First, the plausibility of the point of view must be considered as much
greater now than when Bergson put it forward since we are much more
inclined to the explanation of mental functions as controlling and limiting
more general behaviour possibilities than we were a quarter of a century
u
conception is, however, still generally an unfamiliar one, and
the habit of our minds makes us prone to regard higher mental functions
as always extending rather than limiting the possibilities of behaviour and
perception. It may, therefore, be worth while to illustrate what is meant
by an example drawn from the field of visual perception which is strictly
analogous to the relation which Bergson suggests between telepathy and
the normal perceptual and intellectual activity of the brain.
If we ask anyone what are the advantages of binocular vision in the
higher vertebrates, the answer given in the vast majority of cases is that
the use of two eyes with a common field of vision enables its possessor to
see depth or distance, and that, without binocular vision, the world would
be seen as fiat. Yet both common observation and laboratory experiment
show that this answer must be wrong. If we close one eye, the world does
not look fiat ;
objects still appear to be at different distances from us. In
some cases, the impression of depth is enhanced by using one eye only, as,
or example, in looking at pictures which, if they appear flat to two-eyed
vision, may appear three-dimensional when looked at with one eye.
Moreover, under the simplest conditions of stimulation when the retina
of one eye is uniformly illuminated, the impression gained is not that of a
at lighted surface but of looking at a luminous mist with an indeterminate
quality of depth. Also, when the efficiency of our visual perception is
impaired by brain injury although visual sensations remain, it is not found
world becomes flat. On the contrary, what is lost is the
ability to see things as surfaces ; everything appears to have a spongy,
indeterminate depth. These facts are inexplicable on the idea that binoc-
ular vision causes perception of depth ;
they become clear if we adopt the
fief
i
A
'.«I
66] Present Position of Experimental Research into Telepathy, etc. 17
ipposite view and suppose that perception of depth is primitive and that
he function of the two eyes and of the perceptual process which they
erve is to limit the appearance of depth. The idea can be roughly
xpressed by saying that the two eyes serve not to enable us to see depth
lut to see flatness. The visual perceptual field thus limited is, of course,
f more value to the organism possessing it than the original indeterminate
epth perception. The limitation of depth perception also means that it
ecomes more closely related to real distances in the outside world. There
> less depth in a picture looked at with two eyes, but its appearance,
kerefore, corresponds more closely with the real external fact that it is
ainted on a plane surface. By limiting its depth perception by the use
f its two eyes, the organism has made its depth perception more useful
3 it.
Now let us apply this kind of thought to the psi phenomena, acting on
le hints given by Bergson. Let us consider a hypothetical primitive
rganism possessing the psi capacity in its most extreme imaginable form,
ke Leibniz’s monads mirroring all facts in the universe without any
mitation with respect to space or time. It would possess a capacity of no
ossible biological value to it, since acquaintance with facts is only service-
ble so far as it discriminates between near and distant facts and between
resent and past or future ones. Also it would be a psi capacity quite
ndetectable by any experiment. If we had a subject whose guesses were
etermined by the orders of all packs of cards in the universe, past, present
nd future, no method of experiment could distinguish his condition
•om that of a subject with no psi capacity whatever. The possibility of
etection of psi determined reactions depends on their being limited in
3me degree to a particular pack of cards which is used for scoring. They
lay not be completely limited to that pack, but some degree of limitation
1
1 necessary to make detection possible.
Our imagination of an organism with completely unlimited psi is, of
3urse, purely fantastic. We can suppose that such an organism never
dsted, but that any primitive psi function always possessed some degree
f limitation. On the other hand, observation and experiment both seem
) make it clear that the psi function is less limited in these respects than is
insory perception.
Let us now take a step not taken by Bergson, although it seems to be a
atural extension of his thought, and suppose that psi is the primitive way
1
y which organisms oriented themselves to the outside world and that the
TOlution of the sense organs and of sensory perception was a later acquired
. leans, of greater biological usefulness because more limited. Perhaps we
lay take a simple example of what is meant by saying that the more strict
1 mitation in space and time of sensory perception makes it more bio-
}• Igically useful than the relatively unlimited psi function. Let us suppose
lat a deer had to rely on its psi function (clairvoyance) to make it aware of
le danger from a tiger. If this psi function worked as it appears to in
iperiment, it would combine the advantage of giving warning before the
ger came within visual range, with the grave disadvantage of leaving the
ser uncertain whether its indications referred to a tiger near by, or to one
lat was two hundred and fifty miles away, and of whether its danger
jferred to a tiger in the vicinity now, or to one that would be there
i
i8 Robert H. Thouless, M.A., Ph.D. [par
stljl
rices
ncsr
ce;
tomorrow. The deer would be incomparably better off if he trusted to th
strictly limited sense of vision and hearing, when it would be left peacefull
feeding until a tiger was near enough for it to be necessary to do somethin^ is'
about it. The risk that sometimes the tiger would be too near for escap
before it was seen would be a small price to pay for the relief from
tendency to react which might in the majority of cases be set off by
situation in which the danger was remote in space or time.
Or, to take an example nearer home, let us suppose that each one of u
present here were so open to psi influences that his thoughts were effec
tively determined by those of everyone else in the room. One is perhap
wondering whether his clothing coupons will be sufficient for a new suit
another is thinking that the speaker is going on too long and that she wil
be too late to cook the fish for supper, and so on. If we had such capacity
it would not be a wonderfully effective e.xtension of our powers ;
it would
on the contrary, produce a very ineffective confusion. We are clearH*
better off if our knowledge of the thoughts of others is limited to th|.~^
thoughts of the one person who is speaking and so is in auditory communilSM
cation with us. As compared with the possibility of unlimited telepathii j
P
powers, this restriction of knowledge of the thoughts of others to thosi i
who are producing the sound waves of speech in our immediate vicinip i
is a limitation, but clearly a limitation which increases efficiency of interiwc
communication. If we had to choose between the obtaining of informatioi ip
by psi and obtaining it through our senses, we should unhesitatingly choos( jffio
the latter. >
This leads us to consider the possibility that the psi function is th( I T1
earlier in evolutionary history and that it may have been suppressed bv|ij*ci
the development of the special senses which, with their limitation to what ii
here and now, serve much more efficiently the biological end of securing
the survival and efficient adaptation of the organism. The view herf
suggested is, of course, radically different from that of F. W. H. Myers
who regarded psi as a newly developing human function which woulc
enormously enhance our range of knowledge and bring us in contact witF r
the spiritual world. The difference between his view and this may perhaps i a
be expressed roughly by saying that he regarded the psi function as if 'in
human power stretching forward to the angels ;
the view that I an]
suggesting is that it is going back to the amoeba. Rhine too has suggestec
that it is a late acquisition in evolution, rather surprisingly, since Rhine is one *
of the few investigators who has studied the psi function in an animal, iai
iisc
The view that I am suggesting may, of course, not be right ;
it is pu1
forward as an example of a speculation which imposes a number of cleai |kl
problems for experimental research. So far the expectations it raises seen :
to be fulfilled. If psi is a more primitive function, normally suppressed bj :
the higher mental activities of perception and reasoning, we should expect ,
jc
on the whole, that conditions favourable to the higher mental activities jie
would be unfavourable to psi and vice versa. Alcohol is known to be Pii
unfavourable to the efficient activity of the higher mental functions ;
it is pvv
reported to be favourable to psi. The attitude of inattention to the prac- f
'
tical demands of life induced by muscular relaxation is reported to favour
psi, although most people find muscular tension favourable to ordinary |le
cerebral activities. I also have the impression (although I have no experi-J"-
i
P.(i|66] Present Position of Experimental Research into Telepathy, etc. 19
of nental proof) that the absence of any effort to guess right is also favourable
hi ,0 psi, although efficiency in any intellectual or perceptual activity requires
lii justained conation. The standard conditions I have adopted in my own
cjj uccessful psi experiments include a moderate dose of alcohol, muscular
iffl elaxation, and absence of any effort towards guessing right. The testi-
br nony of other workers confirms the effectiveness of the first and second
ondition, and I think the third is favourable too, but other investigators
ifi feem to give no clear indications on the subject.
™ Clarification of the conditions for psi success is of considerable practical
a mportance since a knowledge of them may enable us to train subjects to
a ;ive successful results and, therefore, make psi experiments possible to
51 iivery research worker who wants to investigate them without it being
at lecessary for him to wait for the lucky chance of finding a suitable subject.
The suggestion I am making is that the favourable conditions are those
'i iiummed up in Bergson’s phrase “ inattention to life ,
because these con-
i ditions are those in which the higher mental functions are reduced in
lit .jfficiency so that the more primitive psi function is no longer effectively
4 suppressed. The spontaneously successful psi subjects seem often to be
more or less dissociated, and, therefore, to have a pathological attitude of
ik i
nattention to life. The non-pathological psi subjects may be those who
I'jfiiave the power of voluntarily adopting an attitude of inattention to life,
tJ 1 power which probably most people could acquire although we should
Ji'easonably expect more difficulty in those subjects who are habitually
;ense.
t
^
There seems to be another indication for experiment in this system of
.1 speculations ;
the possibility that the place to look for psi is amongst the
J animals low in the evolutionary scale. I know of few researches on this
njisubject, and these are confined to the higher vertebrates. Experiments on
isv' invertebrates would be difficult and I do not see how the difficulties can
be overcome. I have tried to think of an experiment on a hive of bees (a
hopeful place for finding psi phenomena) but the practical difficulties are
enormous. Particularly there is the obvious difficulty that we have in-
^ sufficiently accurate knowledge of the limits of the sensory capacities of
^
animals very remote from ourselves.
May I repeat that the speculations contained in the later part of this
J
address are not to be taken as claimed by me to be true. Perhaps they
( ;are flights of fancy with no foundation. Primarily they are intended as
guides to the sort of questions we may submit to the test of experimental
•
research. They can be proved to be well or ill founded, not by argument,
i but by the results of such research.
I Finally I should like to suggest that the general result of our survey is
)
that the present position of experimental research in these topics is a
f hopeful one. Existing researches have not merely proved the existence of
'
the psi phenomena ;
they have also found out some odd and unexplained
things about them that are a challenge to further research. Let us now
give up the task of trjnng to prove again to the satisfaction of the sceptical
that the psi effect really exists, and try instead to devote ourselves to the
task of finding out all we can about it. With fuller knowledge of its nature,
the difficulties of believing in its existence may appear less formidable than
they do now.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
PART 167
EXPERIMENTS IN PRECOGNITIVE TELEPATHY
By S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney
CONTENTS
PAGE
GLOSSARY AND LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS - - - 22
INTRODUCTION
Part I. General ---------24
Part 2. Origin of present experiments (by S. G. Soal) - - 30
REPORT on experiments : January 1941 —April 1943
Abstract - -- -- -- -- -35
Part I. Account of the different types of experiment with
description of the techniques employed and evalua-
tion of the results -------36
Part 2. List of scores for all experiments . - - - 88
Part 3. Chronicle of the individual experiments with brief
mention of any special incidents that occurred or any
special conditions that prevailed.
N.B.—Duplicated copies of Part 3 (the complete Chronicle of
each sitting) can be obtained on application to the Society for
Psychical Research. It is not included here, though references
to it are retained in the Report. Specimen Sittings - - 127
APPENDICES
(A) (i) Percentage of “ true cognitions ” - - - - 130
(2) B.S. scores at a higher rate on some animal symbols
than on others ------- 132
(B) Effects of “ multiple determination ” - - - - 134
(C) Single successes and success groups - - - - I 37
(D) Distribution of ( + 1) hits in places 1-24 on scoring sheet 139
(E) Carry-on of ( + 1) hits from column (a) to column (b) of
scoring sheet - - - - - - - -140
(F) List of ( + i) scores at (variable) “ normal ” rates. Timing
at “ rapid ” rate ------- 140
B
22 [part
S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldnev
(G) Additional data :
(1) Distribution of card presentations over the places 1-5 of
cards in the box at “ normal ” rate between 24.1.41
and 16.1.42 inclusive
(2) Variance from observed mean -----
(3) Variance from theoretical mean - - - -
(H) Two preliminary experiments, 31.12.40 and 17.1.41
(I) List of Observers -------
(J) List of Tables - -- -- -- -
(K) Index ----------
(L) Graphs showing percentages of True Cognitions on differ-
ent dates ------ Facing page
GLOSSARY
The psi fu7iction
Extra sensory perception. A faculty which enables certain persons to t
obtain knowledge without the use of normal sense perception, or of rational j
inference based on such sense perception.
Subject i
A person being tested for evidence of the psi faculty. j
Percipient (Sensitive) \
A person in whom the psi faculty is especially active and/or who is able ||
to bring the results of its activity into the normal conscious field.
j
AgeiU
A person from whose mind a Sensitive obtains knowledge by paranormal
means (i.e., by the exercise of his psi faculty).
Telepathy ^
I
The obtaining of knowledge by a Sensitive from the mind of an Agent “
by means of the psi faculty. A telepathy experiment, therefore, involves two 1
persons : the Agent and the Percipient. i
Precogtiitive telepathy ^
The prehension by a Sensitive, by means of his psi faculty, of the future 1
contents of the Agent’s mind.
Clairvoyance ’
The obtaining of knowledge by a Sensitive, by means of his psi faculty, 1
of some fact in the physical world existing at the moment it is cognised, i
but which is not in the mind of any other living person (i.e., of an Agent)!
A clairvoyance experiment, therefore, is one involving a Percipient alone
without an Agent.
Deviation
The difference between the score obtained in a guessing experiment and
the mean score predicted by the theory of probability. Deviations are
positive when the observed score exceeds the expected score, negative when
it is less than the expected score.
^ are no universally recognised definitions of the terms “ telepathy
”
and “ clairvoyance ”. The definitions here given indicate the sense in which
these terms have been employed in this Report.
142
142 I
143 I
144
145 |p
146 IP
149 (
150
23
167]
Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy
Standard Deviation (of a normal or nearly normal distribution)
A deviation, positive or negative, of such numerical magnitude that a
deviation of double the magnitude would be equalled or exceeded by chance
about once in 21 trials. A deviation of three Standard Deviations, positive
or negative, would be exceeded only about once in 370 trials.
Significant score
A score whose positive or negative deviation from the expected value is
so large that it cannot reasonably be attributed to chance. Different stan-
dards of what is deemed significant are adopted by different workers, but
in the present investigation a numerical deviation which approximates to or
exceeds three Standard Deviations (say 2'8 or over) is considered significant.
Critical ratio (usually denoted by x ot X).
The deviation (positive or negative) divided by the Standard Deviation.
In other words, the number of Standard Deviations contained in a given
: observed deviation.
'
Cross-check
\ An empirical score obtained by comparing a column of guesses with a
I
column of card-presentations with which it was not actually associated in
! the original experiment. Cross-checks are employed in cases where there
i is any reason to suspect that neither the guesses nor the presentations are
;
tmly random series ;
they also provide additional confirmation of results
I obtained by the theory of probability.
Probability of getting, by pure chance alone, a positive or negative critical
I
ratio equal to or exceeding the observed critical ratio.
True cognition
A successful guess due to the operation of the psi faculty and not to chance
coincidence. It is never possible to say which successful hits in a card-
guessing experiment are due to the psi faculty, but a probable estimate of
the number of such hits can be found.
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
(These abbreviations are further explained in the text)
(A) = Agent.
(EA) = Experimenter controlling Agent.
(P) = Percipient.
(EP) = Experimenter controlling Percipient.
(O) == Observer.
(PRN) =Prepared Random Numbers.
TP = Telepathy experiments using Pictures.
TA = Telepathy experiments using Associated Words.
TL= Telepathy experiments using initial Letters.
TP/TA =Telepathy experiments with Pictures alternated with Tele-
pathy using Associated Words in sheets of 50 presen-
tations.
24 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [PAR'
E(
TP/TL= Telepathy with Pictures alternated with Telepathy usinj
Initial Letters in sheets of 50 presentations.
TP/CP = Telepathy with Pictures alternated with Clairvoyance usinj:
Pictures.
TPN/TPS =Telepathy with Pictures at “ Normal ” rate alternated wit!
Telepathy with Pictures at “ Slow ” rate,
h i) STEVENS = The Expected number of ( + 1) hits computed bj
Stevens’ method.
(CC + i) ^Empirical number of (+1) hits obtained on the cross-check
Av. Int. = The average interval in seconds between successive card
presentations.
Dev. = Deviation of Observed number from Expected number
=
O-E.
St. Dev. = Standard Deviation.
X= Critical Ratio = Dev./St. Dev.
NT =Not timed.
E = Expected number (of hits).
O = Observed number (of hits).
:"'X
INTRODUCTION
PART ONE
GENERAL
(3rd
sue
“ The final mystery is oneself. When one has weighed the sun in the balance
and measured the steps of the moon and mapped out the seven heavens star
by star, there still remains oneself.”—De Profundis. Oscar Wilde.
In:
af:
T
The experiments we are about to describe were conducted over a periods
of two and a quarter years with a Sensitive who cumulatively demon- I
strated striking powers of extra sensory perception to an extent which we |
consider admits of no reasonable denial, and in watertight conditions !
which we claim admit of no alternative hypothesis.
It was not without considerable discussion that we decided on the bold
phrase “ Precognitive Telepathy ” by which to describe our experiments.
Such a title would seem to imply that the authors subscribe to some more
or less well-defined theory as to the essential nature of the phenomena
they attempt to elucidate. This is true in a limited sense, but such theories
as we have suggested are lightly held and we realise that, like most hypo-
theses in this difficult field, they may have to suffer extensive revision in
the light of future knowledge.
We are reasonably convinced, however, that the phenomena belong to
that class of unusual mental happenings generally described as “ tele-
pathic ” inasmuch as they seem to demand the presence of a suitable
Agent as well as that of a sensitive Subject ; we have found indeed that
when some persons try to take the part of Agent the phenomena apparently
disappear, and that in one case a change of Agent was followed by a striking
variation in the results. And the description “ precognitive ” telepathy
;%it
|res
)tui
iiir
!'
30
|
P,4I
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 25
alone indicates the salient feature of the results obtained. We have
perforce had to use such terms as are most readily understood to convey
the desired meaning, though we are well aware that it is illogical to apply
the word “ guess ” as we have done, for example, to our Subject’s powers
of card-cognition that we claim show extra sensory perception ;
and that
this word “ perception ” itself, as Dr R. H. Thouless, our President,
pointed out in his Presidential Address,^ ill describes the operation in-
volved. Such terms serve their purpose well enough until greater know-
ledge of the phenomena demands a more exact terminology.
All our results were obtained through the medium of one gifted Sensi-
tive, a gentleman who will be referred to as B.S. ;
and the experiments
are experiments in guessing cards with a chance of success equal to one in
five.
It is well known to most readers that cards bearing five distinct geo-
metrical symbols, commonly called Zener cards, have been in use for
many years in investigations of telepathy and clairvoyance carried out by
Dr Rhine and others in America in the psychology departments of Duke
and Columbia universities. In many of these experiments a Subject
endeavoured to guess the symbol on a card that was being looked at by an
experimenter seated behind a screen or in an adjoining room. In some
j eases it was established beyond reasonable doubt that certain Subjects
t ivere able to score over a considerable period many more correct hits than
: the theory of probability would predict. In these experiments it was the
eard that was contemporaneously gazed at by the Agent that was, as a
.
general rule, the card on which the Percipient scored his successes. But
)ur own Subject, B.S., possesses the striking idiosyncrasy that it is
) ipparently more natural for him to score a hit, not on the card that the
Agent is looking at, but on the cards which immediately precede or follow
j.t in the sequence.
To many readers this may seem strange and improbable, but this
strangeness arises in part, we think, from the fact that at the back of our
minds we tend to regard extra sensory cognition as only a more mysterious
cind of sensory perception.
Visual perception takes place in the “ present ” moment, or more
1 strictly in a short slab of duration which embraces the “ present ” moment.
Ixi^Living organisms, as Bergson points out, are supremely interested in the
S
; present moment because it is in that moment alone that they react with
:heir material environment by means of their sensory and motor apparatus.
Our brains are instruments of action, and normal perception is, according
I
o Bergson, a virtual or incipient action directed towards external bodies.
Vhen we look at any object we are exploring the possibilities of action of
)ur bodies upon that object. Thus our normal consciousness is primarily
V ;oncerned not with the past, or the future, but with the present,
pjij But we have no right to suppose that the extra sensory faculty (or psi
t('J, unction as Dr Thouless calls it), operating from a subliminal level, is
^ :
primarily concerned with the present moment in time or focussed upon
>ur actions and reactions with our material environment. It may have
jjJ 10 particular preference for the present moment over other moments past
jjj'. »r future. We know that mediums will often correctly give incidents
r ! ^ Proc. xlvii, i ff.
26 5. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [PARTi 167]
connected with the Sitter’s past, and often enough such incidents will bei
trivial and of no practical importance, indicating perhaps a subliminal
functioning very different from the purposeful processes of the conscious:
mind. If the above surmise as to the nature of the psi faculty is correct,
it is really rather surprising that Dr Rhine discovered so many Subjects
who tended to cognise the card actually in focus at the moment.
It is possible that powers of card cognition are more widespread than
has been hitherto supposed and that many persons who fail to score on
the actual card are yet successful in cognising certain other cards in the
sequence. Such a displacement effect, if it were spread out over a great
many positions in the sequence, might easily escape detection by an
experimenter who employed cards bearing only five distinct symbols.
On the other hand, for Subjects such as B.S., whose faculty of extra
sensory cognition seems to be concentrated mainly on positions one or
two behind or ahead of the card which is actually in the focus of attention,
the use of a random distribution of five cards with five distinct symbols is
quite suitable.
The main difficulty that has to be faced in these experiments is not the
phenomenon of displacement, but the fact that this displacement is
usually towards the future. Moreover it appears to be a real displacement
in future time. The simplest hypothesis which will cover the facts is the
hypothesis that B.S. somehow becomes cognisant of what is going to be
in the Agent’s mind about two and a half seconds later. There are
possibly other more complicated hypotheses that might be advanced, but
none of them has either the clarity or the economy of the one we have
just stated.
In many of our experiments the card looked at by the Agent was
governed by another experimenter, who drew (by touch) counters from a
bag or bowl whose colour determined the card to be looked at. To a
small extent, therefore, human volition as well as accident determined the
choice of the card which was “ foreseen ” by the Sensitive [see argument
P- 53 )-
Now, many people will be reluctant to admit the possibility of pre-
dicting events—or at least certain kinds of events—to whose fulfilment the
free-will of human beings is a contributing factor. We can of course
make prophecies about the future conduct of a given person upon a basis
of our present knowledge of that person’s character and habits, and such
prophecies may have a high probability of being realised. Today is
21 October 1942 and it would be fairly safe for anyone to predict that
9 a.m. Monday 26 October will find S.G.S. in the Mill Lane lecture rooms
at Cambridge. It would be sufficient for the prophet to know (a) that
S.G.S. is scheduled to lecture at this particular time and place during the
present session and (b) that he enjoys good health and has not missed a
lecture since he came to Cambridge three years ago. But if a clairvoyante
were to prediet that in the year following the end of the present war
K.M.G. would be killed by a falling tile while crossing a street in a storm,
and if the prediction were duly fulfilled, it w'ould scarcely be plausible to
argue that the prophecy was a deduction based upon the clairvoyante ’s
knowledge of the present state of the universe at the time of the sitting.
The concatenation of causes that culminated in the fatal event might
:r.vo
jir.i
ami
>iri:
aral
'!ici
We
J’e
me
(jUf
les
pre
sell
wa
exi
VO
k'
thi
of
no
mi
de
of
in
til
tf
at
pi
C(
If
Cl
if
27
I
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy
i' involve factors which ranged from an alteration in the courses of the
'
winds produced by the melting of ice in the polar seas, to the vic-
I
tim’s decision to shelter for a moment in a doorway and her consequent
arrival on the scene of the accident at the precise instant when the tile
fell.
However, many well-attested cases have been recorded in which a
dreamer foresees an unpredictable future event in his own life in minute
and vivid detail as though he were present as an actor or spectator. In
such cases the dream seems to be a sort of duplication of a future scene.
We need only refer the reader to that admirable collection of first-class
cases of “ duplicating ” prevision made by Mr Saltmarsh from records
published in the Proceedings and Journal of this Society over a period
'
of many years.^ There are also numerous cases described by Dunne,
Osty, Richet and others.
Referring to this kind of precognition Osty writes “ :
“ Douze annees
'
d’experiences personelles avec un grand nombre de sujets metagnomes et
sur un nombre important de personnes, m’ont donne la certitude absolue
qu’il est des etres humains capables de preconnaitre le devenir des hom-
mes. De cela j’ai le meme degre de certitude que de I’existence de ce
que nous appelons la terre, le soleil, les etoiles, les mineraux, les vegetaux,
les animaux. C’est un fait verifiable par I’experience et contre lequel ne
prevaudront pas longtemps nos prejuges maintenant que des hommes de
science ont le courage et la curiosite de se rendre compte.”
If future events in the lives of human beings can be foreseen in this
way, we can only conclude that in some form or other the future already
exists ;
and to what extent “ free-will ” can at the same time remain a
reality is indeed a tremendous question.
But for Bergson there can be no prevision of events in which human
volitions are involved. The future of a living being cannot be foreseen
because it is being created at every instant. Real Time, for Bergson, is not
the pseudo time which science invented for the measurement of the motion
of material bodies, but is the indivisible flow of consciousness itself. It is
perpetual change or “ becoming ”, without any underlying substance
that suffers change, since all substance is change. On this view time is
non-spatial and the Space-Time of Minkowski and Einstein is nothing
more than a convenient fiction created by the intellect for the purpose of
describing the motions of the celestial bodies.
The well-attested facts of “ duplicating ” precognition cut at the roots
of Bergson’s theory of time. His theory of memory has great significance
in its bearing on the phenomenon of telepathy, but his philosophy of
time affords us no help in the study of precognition. Perhaps it was for
this reason that Bergson, although once President of this Society, never
attempted to work out in detail the application of his philosophy to
psychical research and thereby encounter the stumbling block of pre-
cognitive phenomena.
More promising for the study of precognition are those theories which
regard time as a space-like dimension. Bergson may be right in his
contention that the time of experience cannot be truly represented as
space, but such descriptive hypotheses may be useful even if they are
^ Proc. xlii, 49 ff. ‘‘La Connaissance Supra-normale, p. 177.
28 iS. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
|
fundamentally untrue. The well-known theory of J. W. Dunne is based !
essentially on the ideas of Hinton, who regarded time as a fourth dimension
in which bodies have extension as well as in the three dimensions of space. ,
But Dunne’s theory, built up on the conception of an infinite regress of
time dimensions, has been criticised by Professor Broad and others.
Professors C. D. Broad and H. Habberley Price have put forward a hypo- i
thesis to account for the fact of prevision which postulates a second ji
dimension of time at right angles to the first. But we have not the space f
at our disposal to discuss these theories.
Of the various hypotheses which have been advanced to throw light
on the phenomenon of precognition, perhaps that of Mr Saltmarsh has
most significance for our experiments. It is expounded by him in his
important Paper already cited,^ and has for its starting point what is
known in psychology as the “ specious present ”. The “ present moment ”
has a definite duration, and an act of perception is not instantaneous but
occupies a small slab of duration which includes a bit of the “ past ” and I
a bit of the “ future ”. This interval of duration is known as the “ specious 1
present ”. Now Mr Saltmarsh supposes that this span of perception is I
greatly extended at subconscious levels below the threshold of normal I
consciousness. Thus a future event which is outside the “ specious s
present ” of consciousness at the normal level, may yet lie well within j
the “ specious present ” of consciousness at a subliminal level. That is I
to say, an event which is still in the “ future ” for the normal consciousness I
is already a “ present ” event for some stratum of the subliminal mind.
In normal persons there may be no mechanism whereby this knowledge
at the subliminal level can pass into the normal consciousness, but in the
case of psychical Sensitives there may be a kind of osmosis which allows
the subliminal content to infiltrate into the normal “ specious present ”.
If this takes place, it will appear as though the Sensitive has precognised
a future event. This of course is no more than a skeleton outline of Mr
Saltmarsh’s conception and does no sort of justice to it. In his Paper he
works out the theory in great detail and with much ingenuity.
Yet it is not easy to apply Mr Saltmarsh’s theory to the kind of pre-
cognition exhibited by B.S. For our Sensitive does not obtain pre-
cognitive knowledge of what he is going to see through his own eyes in,
say, a couple of seconds’ time. What he apparently precognises is what
is going to be in the mind of another person in two seconds’ time. The
phenomenon is not one of simple precognitive perception ;
it is enormously
complicated by the addition of telepathy. But there does seem to be an j
intimate connection between the results of our experiments and Mr |
Saltmarsh’s theory of an extension of the specious present.
We have alluded to Bergson’s theory of memory. We cannot elaborate
this here but, in brief, he postulates two types of memory embodying our I
individual past : one, the habit or bodily memory which is simply the
capacity of our physical body and brain to reproduce certain organised
movements by means of motor mechanisms which have been built up
within the nervous system ;
and the other, what Bergson names the Pure
Memory, a psychical memory which represents the conservation of all
our past mental states. The Pure Memory must not however be regarded
^ Proc. xlii, 49 ff.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 29
as a mere lifeless and inert record of such past mental states. It must be
considered rather as something essentially dynamic and fluid, constantly
added to at every moment of our lives, being created at each act of per-
ception, and capable of transmuting itself into a thousand mental images
in the present moment. Our past does not survive in the form of mental
images : the mental image is a materialisation, an intellectualisation of an
unconscious mental state which is nevertheless in a sense its equivalent.
Telepathy, we suggest, is essentially a case of the influence of one Pure
Memory by another. It is not, we postulate, the propagation of a mental
image from one brain to another, but the development into imagery by a
mind (P) of some unconscious equivalent which is in the Pure Memory
of a mind (A). The Pure Memory does not occupy space, and the meta-
phor of “ transferring ” or “ transmitting ” an idea is probably an entirely
misleading one. If we adopt Bergson’s theory of memory we shall never
attempt to visualise the telepathic process as a transmission from one
brain to another, after physical models like radiation or electric waves.
And with the abandonment of these spatial metaphors we shall cease to
think of the Agent as an active sender and the Percipient as a passive
receiver. It may indeed be the Percipient who is the more active partner
in the transaction, since it is he who has to materialise the unconscious
memory-states of another. We say “ the memory-states of another ”,
but it may, again, be that memory in the unconscious state is not such a
private thing as we are wont to suppose. It may be, as William James
has suggested, that our memory states pass into a great dynamic reservoir
of unconscious mental life. No doubt our individual memories carry
with them a seal of personality, and our attention to life and action generally
prevents us from materialising the memories of other people ;
but in
conditions not as yet understood it may well be that a Sensitive can
materialise the memories of another—much in the same way as he nor-
mally materialises his own (however that may be).
The above remarks refer to telepathy in general. But just as there are
different varieties of normal mental activity, so research may reveal several
widely differing types of telepathic functioning. The processes which
take place, for instance, in a case of spontaneous telepathy are probably
j
very different from those brought into play by experiments in card-
I cognition.
Our experiments, it may be feared, will raise problems rather than
I
solve them. The problem of their interpretation bristles with difficulties.
1
But if it be admitted that we have demonstrated the existence of pre-
cognitive powers in our Sensitive, we shall at least have contributed
valuable experimental data bearing upon the problem of psychological
Time. It is but a beginning. We trust that our report may stimulate
I
others to prosecute similar enquiries. The way is long and tedious, but
I the prize is the adventure of climbing a new peak in Darien and scanning
a fresh horizon.
3° S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
PART TWO
ORIGIN OF THE PRESENT EXPERIMENTS
By S. G. Soal
I first made the acquaintance of B.S. in the early part of the year 1936.
At that time I was carrying out an extensive repetition of Dr Rhine’s
experiments with Zener cards. During this investigation, which lasted
five years, I gave individual tests for telepathy and clairvoyance to 160
persons and recorded 128,350 guesses. The results are discussed in my
Paper “ Fresh light on Card Guessing—Some new effects.”.^
Except for one group of Percipients whose work in “ Pure Clair-
voyance ” showed a just significant tendency to score below chance
expectation, the results in general appeared at first sight to be in agreement
with what the laws of probability would predict. There seemed indeed
little evidence of a direct kind that the persons tested, whether considered
as individuals or in the mass, possessed any faculty for either clairvoyance
or telepathy.
However, in the autumn of 1939, at the suggestion of Mr Whately
Carington who was carrying out experiments in telepathy, I re-examined
a large number of my records in order to ascertain whether any of the
guessers had scored hits, not on the cards focussed by the Agent, but on
the immediately preceding or following cards. The two examples given
below illustrate the sort of effect I was trying to discover.
(i) Actual Card
+
Guess
O
+
(ii) Actual Card
0<-
s^'
Guess
/S
w
(In the above examples the horizontal arrows point to the card which was being
looked at by the Agent while the Percipient was making his guess.) ^
N.B. Example (i) shows a post-cognitive effect, for the successful hit is, as it
were, delayed by one place; while example (ii) shows a pre-cognitive effect, for the
Percipient scores a successful hit before the card is actually lifted from the pack
for the Agent to look at.
In my previous Paper I called example (i) a ( + i) hit and example (ii)
a (
- i) hit. But in order to conform with the notation adopted by Dr
Thouless, who is himself experimenting along these lines, I now propose
to call the postcognitive hits with displacement of one card backwards
’Proc. xlvi, 152 ff. ^ The symbols used in this diagram are Zener symbols.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 31
(-1) hits, and the precognitive hits with displacement of one card
forwards ( + 1) hits. This reverses the notation employed in my first
Paper. Similarly when the successful hit refers to the card two places
ahead, I shall call it a precognitive ( + 2) hit, and when it is made on the
card two places behind the “ actual ” card, I shall call it a postcognitive
(
- 2) hit ;
thus again reversing the custom of my previous Paper. If we
consider time as a linear dimension, it seems more natural to refer to the
past as minus and the future as plus than vice versa.
Among the records of the 160 persons previously tested, two persons
were found whose results showed highly significant successes on both
(
+ 1) and (-1) displacements. One of these, referred to as Mrs S.,
obtained in addition a lesser degree of success on the “ actual ” card
looked at by the Agent. Her success on the actual card, however, petered
out after the first 1,000 trials while the postcognitive (-1) and pre-
cognitive ( + 1) successes continued to be highly significant over a series
of 2,000 guesses. The second person, Mr B.S., the Subject of the present
experiments, obtained on the whole no success on the “ actual ” card
—
though the first few runs at least suggested that he began by scoring on the
actual card but soon switched off to ( ±1) hits. B.S. scored about equally
well on both precognitive ( + i) and postcognitive (
- i) guesses. In fact,
in a series of 768 ( + i) trials he obtained 194 hits, and in the same number
of (-1) trials he won 195 hits. These correspond to 3-65 and to 3-74
Standard Deviations respectively.
It will be understood that both Percipients as well as myself (the
Experimenter) were totally unaware that any success was being obtained
on precognitive or postcognitive hits at the time when the experiments
were carried out (1936), for these effects were not even suspected till three
years later.
Another extremely interesting effect was observed in the records of
both Percipients. It was found that when the card to be guessed
—
i.e.,
the “ actual ” card—^was sandwiched between two cards of the same
denomination, a greater proportion of (±1) hits was noted than the
theory of probability would predict. In fact it appeared that in cases
where both a ( + i
)
success and a (
- i
)
success were simultaneously possible,
the two effects seemed in some degree to reinforce one another. In my
previous Paper I called such guesses “ multiply-determined ” (MD)
guesses. These are illustrated by the following examples :
(I) o- (II)
+ 4-
In each case the arrow points to the card actually looked at by the
Agent, before and after which come cards of the same denomination.
Previously I counted only the MD guesses as in example (I), but in the
present Report we have included both examples (I) and (II) in the same
count, since there seems little reason for making a distinction between the
two types.
I should like to mention before proceeding that neither of these success-
ful Sensitives was discovered by the blind method of applving routine
tests indiscriminately to a large number of persons in the hope that a
32 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part |
genuine telepathic Percipient would soon appear. I am convinced now t
that this is a forlorn hope and that other methods should be adopted in
the search for Sensitives. I visited Mrs S. at her house in Richmond only
after hearing from her husband that she possessed undoubted psychical
gifts. B.S. came to the Laboratory where I was carrying out the tests,
after reading an article on the experiments which appeared in a Sunday
newspaper. He came because he had been successfully amusing his
friends for years by his card-cognition feats and because he felt confident
he could demonstrate telepathy. Applying tests at random to all and
sundry is, I now believe, wasteful of both time and energy. It is far better
to seek out those persons who are reputed among their friends to possess
paranormal powers.
Nor do I think—in spite of Rhine’s experience to the contrary with his i
own students—that the English University student is promising material ’
for psychical investigation. Of the 8o odd students tested at University
College, there was not one who provided even reasonable evidence that
he or she possessed any gift for extra sensory perception, and I believe
Dr Thouless’s experience agrees with mine. It is among those who
cultivate intuition and feeling rather than intellect that we should
prosecute our enquiries. I offer these observations since it appears to be
the rule that whenever a Professor of psychology takes up psychical
research he almost always experiments with students. The mind of the
average British student is a more or less logical fact-assimilating machine,
which is at opposite poles to the mind of the intuitive Sensitive. And I
should like to add that many psychological laboratories are ill-adapted to
the study of extra sensory cognition. Too often they are noisy places with
students scurrying along the corridors to their class-rooms. The Sensitive
demands freedom from distraction, the presence of friendly people who
are prepared to adapt themselves to his mental idiosyncrasies, and, above
all, the absence of formality or fuss. Neglect of these conditions, which
experience has shown to be essential, will lead inevitably to frustration, to
the accumulation of negative results and, in the end, to the psychologist
abandoning the study of a delicate faculty the laws of whose emergence
have not been properly understood.
The experiments of 1936 with B.S., described in Part II of my previous
Report,^ left many questions unanswered. It will be remembered that
the Zener cards were lifted one by one from a pack of 25 cards in random
order, each card being exposed for a few seconds to the gaze of an Agent
who sat with the experimenter on one side of an opaque screen while the
Sensitive, B.S., sat on the other side. When B.S. had recorded his guess,
he tapped on the table with his pencil and the next card was then exposed.
Now when B.S. scored a ( -f-
1) precognitive success, it was not clear from
what source he was obtaining his knowledge of the card which was one
place ahead. At the moment when he made his guess this card was
resting face downwards on top of the pack. Was he cognising clair-
voyantly the symbol inscribed on this top card, or was he foreseeing what
would be in the Agent’s (or Experimenter’s) mind in a few seconds’ time?
In the former case future time would play no part in the affair and the
Percipient’s success could be ascribed to an act of clairvoyant cognition
* Proc. xlvi, 178 ff.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 33
of an event in the present. In the latter case the Sensitive would be truly
precognising a future mental event which did not “ exist ” (in common
parlance) at the moment when he wrote down his guess. The 1936
experiments with B.S. or Mrs S. did not allow me to decide between
these two alternatives.
Again, was it necessary for anyone to look at the cards for the experiment
to succeed, or would it have worked equally well if the Experimenter or
Agent had merely lifted them one by one from the pack without anyone
seeing the symbols on their faces?
In December 1940, having discovered in his previous records the dis-
placement effects described, I sought out B.S. with a view to further
experiments. Fortunately I found him reinstated in his Studio after being
discharged from the Army owing to ill-health. I thought it advisable to
tell him something about the interesting effects we had discovered, but I
did not go into much detail as he made no objection to my trying some
fresh experiments. He suggested that as he was a busy man the new
experiments should take place in his Studio. With the precautions I
intended to adopt, there was no objection to this suggestion ;
and my
earlier records had shown that he obtained positive results when the
experiments were carried out away from his own premises.
The question I now had to decide was whether the experiments were
to be again carried out with Zener cards inscribed with the five geo-
metrical symbols, or whether to substitute a different sort. The Zener
cards had the obvious advantage of a clear-cut one in five chance of
success, but on the other hand I had, after having used them for five years,
become sick of the very sight of the Zener symbols. I decided eventually
to effect a compromise by substituting for the Zener cards others bearing
five pictures of different animals. I thus retained the great advantage of
a one in five chance of success. In war-time, however, it was not easy to
obtain large quantities of cards with identical backs, such as I had used
previously, and I therefore modified the technique of the experiment so
that five cards only would be required instead of the 40 packs used in the
earlier experiments.
My colleague, Mrs Goldney (K.M.G.), scarcely needs any introduction
to members of this Society, of which she herself has been a member for
16 years. She has travelled widely, has had great practical experience in
many branches of psychical research, and is expert in the detection of
fraud. We have worked together on many occasions in the past. For
more than a year she collaborated with me in the investigation of “ Mar-
ion ”, the well-known vaudeville telepathist. Shq also organised the
physiological experiments carried out in connection with our joint work
with the medium Eileen Garrett and contributed a Paper on this subject
to Proceedings.^ Owing to her medical experience she has been specially
selected to take a leading part in investigations of physical mediums.
Since February 1939 she has held the post of Assistant Regional Admini-
strator at W.V.S. Headquarters in London, covering Region 10 with its
4 counties of Lancashire, Cheshire, Cumberland, and Westmorland.
No one who knows K.M.G. will question either her great ability or
her integrity. It was to her that I turned again when seeking a collaborator
^ Proc. xlv, 43 ff.
34 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part '
for the present series of experiments, with the request that she would
co-operate with me not only in the conduct of the experiments, but in this i
Report on them. It is however at her own request that I record that :!
she has not the mathematical qualifications necessary for handling or i
criticising the statistical methods employed here, and to that extent she |
has played a subsidiary part in the work entailed. She asks me to say that
j
she would prefer to be considered as my Assistant rather than as a partner, j
but I am happy to record that I do not share her views on this point.
With this much as my own account of the events leading to the present I
experiments, we will now resume our joint report.
B.S., our Sensitive, is a photographer, an artist in his profession, with
an arresting style and original conception of treatment, well-known for
his striking portrait studies. A man in perhaps the late thirties, he has a
large Studio in the west end of London. He passed the early part of his
life in South Africa with which country his family has connections. Not
until he was about 23 years of age did he become aware that he possessed
unusual psychical gifts. So far as we can ascertain, he has no particular
interest in Spiritualism ;
nor does he practise automatic writing. He
tells us he has on various occasions applied his faculty of intuition to the
forecasting of winners in a horse race with much profit to himself. None
of his relatives appears to possess a similar paranormal faculty.
B.S. claims to be able to sum up a person’s character by a flash of
intuition, and his thumb-nail sketches are often very amusing and accurate.
B.S., unfortunately, does not enjoy good health, and suffers from
duodenal trouble and the loss of one kidney.
When we gave an account of our experiments with him at a Meeting
of the Society on 2 October 1942, the President, Dr Thouless, asked us to
convey the best thanks of the Society to B.S. for the splendid way in
which he has put both his time and his great gift at our service. It is no
small thing that he has been willing over a period of more than two years
to persevere in the monotonous task of guessing at the names of five
animals and to suffer our intrusions into his Studio. We extend to him
our very heartiest thanks.
We have obtained highly significant results with three different Agents,
none of w’hom was a friend of B.S. These we shall refer to as Miss R.E.,
Mrs G.A., and Mr J.Al. None of the Agents has received any remun-
eration for his or her assistance and neither has B.S.
We owe a special debt of gratitude to Miss R.E., who worked with us
regularly for a whole year. R.E. had previously given valuable assistance
with the 1934-1939 experiments after these had been transferred to the
psychological laboratory at University College, London. She also under-
took an immense amount of work in making various counts in connection
with the 1934-1939 experiments—work which she carried out with
scrupulous care. All observers who have watched her at work in the
present experiments testify to her reliability and accuracy. In addition
to acting as Agent, R.E. assisted in the making of the duplicate records
which were sent to Professor Broad in Cambridge at the conclusion of
each day’s work.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 35
Our thanks are also due to the other two Agents, Mrs G.A. and Mr
J.Al. Mr J.Al. in particular, though a busy man, made many journeys
from South London in order to assist at the experiments.
Our thanks are extended to the numerous persons who often travelled
long distances to witness and assist at the experiments. Their names will
appear in the course of the Report. Our special thanks are due to Dr E.
J. Dingwall for his advice and help ;
and to Miss Jephson, Mrs John-
stone, Mrs Woollard, Mr Chibbett, Mr Medhurst, Mr Redmayne, Mr
Richmond, and Mr Rozelaar, who carried out the complete re-check of
all original and duplicate scoring sheets. Mr Gerhard Wassermann, B.Sc.,
a young mathematician, bn some occasions compiled lists of random
numbers for use in the experiments, as did also Mr C. U. Blascheck, of
Clare College, Cambridge.
And finally we wish to record our appreciation of the interest
taken in the experiments by Dr Thouless, who has been ever ready to
assist us with his statistical experience and knowledge of experimental
psychology.
REPORT ON EXPERIMENTS IN PRECOGNITIVE TELEPATHY
1941—1943
ABSTRACT
In the present Report the authors describe experiments in card-cognition
carried out during the years 1941 -1943 with a Sensitive, Mr B.S., whose
work in 1936 with Zener cards had shown evidence of precognitive and post-
cognitive effects.
The bulk of the experiments took place in 1941, mostly at weekly inter-
vals; they were resumed, after a 4 months’ gap, in 1942; and after August
1942 three isolated experiments were carried out in the early months of 1943.
All experiments to date are included in this Report.
Throughout the present series the Agent and Percipient were in separate
rooms, and stringent precautions were taken to eliminate the possibilities
of normal leakage, fraud, and collusion.
The material for transmission consisted of five animal pictures, but the
experiments were equally successful when, in place of the pictures, cards
were substituted inscribed with the initial letters of the animals’ names or
with “ associated ” words.
It is shown that the precognitive and postcognitive effects obtained were
almost certainly of a telepathic (rather than clairvoyant) character.’-
B.S. scored highly significant results with three Agents. Superficial tests
with ten other Agents were negative. (Some of these were for a few calls
only.)
Successful results were obtained using (i) the method of selecting the
card to be looked at by lists of random digits (1-5) prepared before the
experiment, and (2) the method of selecting the card to be looked at by
drawing coloured counters one by one by touch from a bag w'hile the
experiment was in progress.
Interesting results were also obtained by the use of non-random lists of
digits.
With two of the three successful Agents it was found that, when the time
interval betw'een successive card presentations varied from 2-i to 3 3 seconds
(the “normal” rate), significant precognitive ( + 1) successes were scored;
’ See Glossary, p. 22.
36 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
while with the third Agent both significant precognitive ( + i) and significant
postcognitive (-1) hits were obtained. The direct hits on the whole
series show no significance.
It was also found that when the rate of calling was speeded up so that the
interval between successive calls was reduced to 1-5 seconds (the “ rapid”
rate), the ( + 1) cognitions disappeared and were replaced by (+2) pre-
cognitive successes.
When on the other hand the rate of calling was slowed down to an interval
of five seconds between successive presentations (the “ slow ” rate), no
“ beyond chance ” results of any kind were obtained.
In so-called “ clairvoyance ” experiments in which the Agent touched
but did not look at the card to be guessed, no significant results of any kind
were obtained, and this irrespective of whether B.S. knew or did not know
whether the experiment was one of “ clairvoyance ” or of “ telepathy ”
(in which the Agent looked at the cards).
The effects of “ sandwiching ” ^ noted during the work of 1936 are fully
confirmed in the present series, and there is strong evidence of a similar
effect in connection with ( ±2) guesses at the “ rapid ” rate of calling.
B.S.’s impressions or pre-judgments as to whether his guessing was
successful or not appeared to bear no relation to the actual results obtained.
Scoring w'as not equally successful on each of the five animal picture
cards. Most success was scored with the Elephant and least with the Lion.
A number of persons witnessed the successful scoring and all testified
to the fraud-proof character of the methods employed.
Statistically the precognitive ( + 1) results on the whole seides are highly
significant. Including every single experiment between the dates 24.1.41
and 6.1.43 3t which an Agent was present, we have a total of 11,378 ( + 1)
precognitive trials.^ This total includes tests in both “ telepathy ” and
“ clairvoyance ” and tests at all rates of calling and with all Agents;
i.e., we include those conditions which consistently led to negative results
as well as conditions which conduced to success. The number of ( + 1)
successes on this grand total is 2,890 compared with an expectation of
2,308- 17 by Stevens’ method.^ We have thus an excess of ( + i) hits amount-
ing to 581-83 and equivalent to 13-6 Standard Deviations, with odds of more
than 10^^ to I against chance.
PART ONE*
ACCOUNT OF THE DIFFERENT TYPES OF EXPERIMENT
WITH DESCRIPTION OF THE TECFINIQUES EMPLOYED
AND EVALUATION OF TFIE RESULTS
N.B.—Owing to her war work, which entailed travelling to the north of
England, K.M.G. was unable to be present at a few of the experiments.
S.G.S. attended every experiment except one held on 16 January 1942 when,
however, K.M.G. was present. Every experiment held between the dates
24 January 1941 and 15 April 1943 is recorded in the present Report and
with the exception of the two final sittings (Nos. 39 and 40) is included in
^ See p. 31.
^ The results of two experiments held at the Society’s rooms (Sittings 39 and 40)
arrived too late to be included in this total but if they were added the effect would
be to increase still further the Critical Ratio.
3
See pp. 43-44-
* Part I should be read in conjunction with Part 2 (List of Scores, p. 88).
VERY
IRREGULAR
WAlL
PLATE I
say
,NTE -ROOM
ENTRANCE 72 "
Y
W
V
T :
C'l’ =
L
T' ^
l'>-j
“:r
Sofa.
WORKTADLE and Stool.
Chairs liefore tirpplace.
Seat oe Photographer's Assistant.
Table sliowing pn.-iition of (P) and (EP) on
14 and 2.5 Aiiginst, UUl.
iPosit.'nn of Table on 24 Sr-ptemljcr, 1941.
'Position of Table on 21 Xoveinlier, 5
I)ci cnilipr and 21 Doccnilicr, 1941.
= l)ESi; wliere B.S. sat from 15 Jlay, 1942
to 2(> August 1942.
Position of Carp Table till 21 Feluuarv,
1911.
Position of Carp Table on and after 21
P’eluuary. 1941.
'
I’HOTOGRAPHER'S LAMP.
I'osition of K.E. on 5 June 1942.
Doors.
1)
PLATE II
direct
hit
10
precognl-
tlve hit
15
20
(- 1 )
postcog-
nltlvo
hit. 25
SCORING SHEET
SHEET 1
NAME B •S'
date Noyenibsr *41
G A
2 5
3 1
/ 4 •(- -> 4
1 3
/ 1 1
3 2
5 5
4 3
^ 2 2
3 2
5 5
4
A ^3
2 2
2 5
5 1
5 3
5 1
^4 4
3 2
5 3
1 2
4 ^ 1
1^ 5
1 4
Totals (+1)(0)(-1)
6/7/3
Totals
(+2) = 3
(-2) = 5
(+ 2 )
=1
(-2) =7
5/5/6
ICC+1)=6 (CC+1) = 3
CODE
Z P
1 2
a E
3 4
Time
Not timed.
Time
58 secs.
TOTAL CORRECT=
This independent record has been checked with
the duplicate and found to agree
Signature of Experimenter
Signature of Witness
G A
4 3
5 2
4 5
3 2
4 1
2 4
4 2
3 3
3 4
5 4
1 5
4 4
5 3
3 3
1 4
4 2
1 5
2 1
3 3
4 5
3 5
5 2
4 4
2 1
3 1
on
Qtn
T
Inti
alii
few
men
e(]u
Cot
ted
kd
L P»
v' ado
Tk
21
TOTAL CORRECT=
This independent record has been checked witi
the duplicate and found to agree
Signature of Experimenter
Signature of Witness
37
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy
the tabulated totals. No experiment held in the presence of either S.G.S.
or K.M.G. at any time has been omitted. Two preliminary experiments
carried out by S.G.S. on first contacting B.S. are recorded in Appendix H.
Types of Experiment. There were two main types of experiment.
In the first the card to be looked at by the Agent was chosen by means of
a list of random numbers (i to 5) prepared beforehand by S.G.S., or in a
few cases by another person. This type of experiment will be referred to
as a PRN (Prepared Random Numbers) experiment. In the second type
of experiment, the card to be looked at was chosen by one of the experi-
menters selecting by touch a counter from a bag or bowl which contained
equal numbers of counters in five different colours. This will be called a
Counters experiment.
We shall begin with a description of the PRN experiments. The
technique which we shall describe was for all practical purposes standard-
ised by 7 March 1941 in the seventh sitting of the series. A screen was in
use on the card-table from Sitting i on 24 January 1941, but the additional
precaution of enclosing and screening the five cards inside a box was
adopted on and after 7 March 1941. The introduction of a second experi-
menter whose function was to control B.S., the Percipient, first took place
on 7 February 1941 at Sitting No. 3.
Personnel. In general four persons take part in the experiments.
They are
(1) The Percipient (B.S.) referred to as - - - - (P)
(2) The Agent referred to a^ - - - - - - (A)
(3) The Experimenter controlling Agent referred to as - - (EA)
(4) The Experimenter controlling Percipient referred to as - (EP)
In addition a fifth person is present on most occasions,
who is called the Observer ----- (O)
From January 1941 till June 1941 the role of (EA) was assumed by
S.G.S., and that of (EP) by K.M.G. and various other persons. On and
after 14 August 1941, K.M.G. usually played the part of (EA) while
S.G.S. acted as (EP). This change-over gave to each experimenter
experience of the different roles. (See Part 2, List of Scores, for personnel
at each experiment.)
The Studio and Ante-Room.^ Our experiments are conducted in
B.S.’s Studio. This is below the level of the street and none of the rooms
has any windows. The rooms consist in the main of a large Studio and an
ante-room. There are, in addition, some small private apartments which
are reached from the ante-room through a curtained archway and from
the Studio through the door 03.'^ The ordinary entrance to the Studio
from the ante-room is by door D2. The folding entrance-doors, Di,
lead to a short passage from which stairs ascend to the outer door of
the building which opens on the street. The shaded area in Plan between
ante-room and Studio is intra-mural and hollow, and the walls are not
solid but built-up with plywood, plaster-covered, as are also the doors.
The screened-off portion shown in the right hand corner of the Studio is
a temporary plywood platform (for photographic purposes).
1
Cf. Plate I. 2 sgg piatg j
38 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part ,
Lf
Card Table and Cards.^ The card table (size 24 in. square and 25 in. L|
high) is situated in the Studio at a distance of about 9 feet from the i
L|
dividing wall between Studio and ante-room. It is lighted by a powerful Li
photographer’s lamp, L. Standing on this card table is a screen (size ; |a
31 in. wide by 26 in. high) with a square aperture (3 inches square) in its
p
centre. The Agent is seated on that side of the screen remote from the §
ante-room and the experimenter (EA) sits or stands on the side nearest d
to the ante-room. The plane of the screen is about parallel to that of the
dividing wall. Resting on the table on the Agent’s side of the screen is a
p
rectangular box with its open face towards the Agent.^ Inside this, on j
the floor of the box and entirely screened by it, are five cards with backs
like those of playing cards and bearing on their faces pictures of the five j
animals
Lion (L) I
Elephant (E)
Zebra (Z)
Giraffe (G)
Pelican (P)
The pictures are in appropriate colours. On the table in front of (EA)
are five cards on which are printed in large bold type the numbers
L2, 3,4, 5.
Position of Percipient. The Percipient, B.S., sits in the ante-room j
while he is guessing the cards, in one of the following positions. For the
first 18 sittings, between 24 January 1941 and 13 June 1941, he sat on
one of the chairs (C) with the experimenter (EP) beside him in front of
the fireplace. On and after 14 August 1941 and until 21 December 1941,
B.S. and (EP) sat at a small table nearly towards the far end of the ante-
room. On and after 15 May 1942 B.S. and (EP) sat at a desk (V).^
Scoring Sheets.^ S.G.S. brings to each sitting scoring sheets,
foolscap size, each designed to accommodate two columns. For each
column there are two divisions : the one on the left headed G (for
Guesses) and the one on the right headed A (for Actual cards). The two
divisions are divided into 25 rectangular cells, and for convenience in
keeping count these cells are numbered at intervals of five. The left hand
column with its two divisions of 25 cells is referred to as the {a) column
and the right hand one with its two divisions of 25 cells as the {b) column.
Thus sheet 4(a) means the left-hand column (with its two divisions of
25 cells) on the fourth sheet ;
sheet ^{b), the right-hand column (with its
two divisions of 25 cells) on the fourth sheet.
S.G.S., before coming to the sitting, fills in the A divisions on all the
sheets to be used by (EA) with a random sequence of the digits i, 2, 3, 4, 5.
In general S.G.S. prepares these lists from the last digits of the seven-
figure logarithms of numbers selected at intervals of 100 from Chambers’
Tables.^ In some cases, however, Tippets’ random numbers were used.
These lists are compiled by S.G.S. at his lodgings in Cambridge with no-one
1 See Plate III. See Plate IV. = See Plate I.
^ See Plate II. ‘ See Proc. xlvi, 1^6.
167] Experiments in Precogmtive Telepathy 39
present but himself, and they are kept under lock and key until the day
of the sitting. They are then brought to London in a suit-case which is
never out of S.G.S.’s sight till the experiment is about to start. At the
last moment S.G.S. takes the suit-case into the Studio, extracts the com-
piled lists, and hands them to (EA). (P), therefore, who never enters the
Studio till the experiments are finished, has no opportunity of seeing
these sheets at any time.
S.G.S. also hands (P) some empty scoring sheets similar to those in the
possession of (EA) and both (EA) and (P) number the first sheet they are
about to use “ i ”. (P) records his guesses in the G divisions on each sheet.
The lists of random numbers are made out in blue-black ink, but (P)
finds it more convenient to use a pencil in recording his guesses.
(P) and (EP) now seat themselves in the ante-room. The door D3 is
kept closed.^ In the earlier experiments, till sitting No. 10, the door Da
was completely closed also. After sitting No. 9 however, it was left an
inch or two ajar in order to facilitate hearing. From where he sits (P)
is quite unable to see either (EA) or the screen. Still less is he able to
see the box on the far side of the screen or the Agent (A). The purpose
of the box is to screen the five cards from the view of any person who
might by hypothesis be concealed in the Studio or who might be gazing
dowm into the Studio through some hypothetical hole in the ceiling. In
fact, with the cards inside the box, no-one could see them unless he were
standing directly behind (A), in which case his presence would be apparent
at once.
The five cards are now shuffled by either the Agent (A) or the observer
(O), if an observer is present. Throughout the experiments we have
adopted as a cardinal principle the rule that neither (EA) nor (EP) shall
shuffle the five cards nor witness the shuffling. Hence, since (EA) does
not know the order of the cards inside the box he can give nothing away
to (P) by any inflections of the voice when he calls (see ff)
;
and since (EP)
is also unaware of the order, he cannot help (P) in any way when the latter
records his guesses. If (EA) looks through the square aperture in the
screen, he can see only (A) and the top of the box.
The Call. The experiment begins with (A) and sometimes (O)
shuffling the cards out of sight of (EA) and laying them face downwards
in a row on the floor of the box. (EA) then shouts “ Are you ready?
”
and on receiving the answer “ Yes ” from (EP) in the ante-room, lifts to
the aperture in the screen the printed card bearing the number which
comes first in the (a) column of the first sheet. He pauses for the merest
fraction of a second and calls “ One ”. On seeing, say, the number
4 at the aperture, (A) lifts up slightly the fourth card from left to right
and having noted the picture on its face lets the card fall back face down-
wards on the floor of the box, without of course disturbing the order of
the five cards. On hearing the word “ One ”, (P) writes down in the first
cell of the G division of the (a) column of his first scoring sheet the initial
letter of one of the animals : L, E, Z, G, or P. The momentary pause
by the experimenter (EA) is to ensure that (A) has lifted the card at the
instant (P) hears the call. (EP) verifies that (P) synchronises his recording
^ See Plate I.
40 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part |J]1
with (EA)’s calls. While the guessing is in progress (A) remains absol-|
utely silent. To summarise :
(A) or (O), the only persons who know the
order of the cards, never speak at all ;
(EA), the only person who speaks,
does not know the order of the cards. The possibility of a code being
conveyed by the voice is therefore precluded.
Until sitting No. 9 (21 March 1941), (P) used to shout “ Right
”
immediately he had recorded his guess ;
but after a time this became un-
necessary since (P) got into the habit of writing down his guess at the
instant he heard (EA)’s call or at an interval scarcely ever exceeding -4 of
a second after the call (timed by S.G.S. with a stop-watch).
(EA) now exhibits the next random number at the aperture and calls
“ Two ” after a fraction of a second’s pause. On seeing the number card
at the aperture, (A) lifts the appropriate animal card and lets it fall back
in its place. (P) on hearing “ Two ” immediately records his guess in the
second cell of his G division, and so the guessing continues. (EA) calls
the numbers 2, 3, 4, up to 25 at a rhythmical rate, keeping the intervals
as constant as possible.^ At guess number one (EA) starts a stop-clock
which is stopped at guess number twenty-five. At the end of the (a)
or left hand column of 25 guesses, there is a pause of at least six or seven
seconds, after which (EA) shouts “ Next column ”, and on hearing
(EP)’s “ Right ” begins again with “ One ”, “ two ”, “ three ”, etc. until
the right hand or (b) column of the sheet is run through.
Taking Down the Code. When the sheet of 50 calls is completed,
there is a break of perhaps a couple of minutes for “ taking down the
code ”. (EA) goes round to the other side of the screen, and, watched by
(O), turns over the five cards without disturbing their order. He records
the code at the bottom of the scoring sheet thus :
Ita
Itcc
W
iftfsi
™t
are
||to:
ta'
jas
;as
itl
0(
al
e:
ri
n
E L G P Z t
12345 "
r
This, say, is the order of the five cards as seen and lifted by the Agent from j
left to right. (P) in the meantime remains with (EP) in the ante-room.
Before commencing their second sheet (which both (EA) and (P) now ,
number “ 2 ”), the five cards are re-shuffied by (A) or (O) out of sight
j
of both (EA) and (EP), and this is done each time before starting on a new ,
sheet.
Decoding and Checking-Up. The decoding and counting of success-
ful hits is carried out by (EA), (EP), and (O), with (A) looking on.
(EA) first brings the random number sheets into the ante-room (or
(P)’s sheets into the Studio) and lays sheet No. i on a table by the side of
(P)’s “ guess ” sheet No. i. One of the experimenters reads aloud (P)’s
guesses and as he does so (O) or the other experimenter copies down in the
appropriate cell of (EA)’s G column the code-number for each of (P)’s
letters, which he obtains by referring to the code at the bottom of (EA)’s
sheet. As this number is entered, either (O) or the other experimenter
^ In the earliest experiments the word “ next ” was called instead of the serial
number (see p. 44).
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 41
;hecks it, while (A) checks the letter read out by the first experimenter.
"Thus each member of the active pair is checked by a looker-on. All
decoded numbers are entered in ink.
When a column of 25 guesses is filled in on (EA)’s sheet, the numbers
af successes are counted in the order
! {a) direct hits
{b) precognitive ( + i) hits
^
(c) postcognitive (
- i )
hits
^
with, as a rule, at least three people checking the counts. These numbers
I
are then entered in ink at the top of (EA)’s sheet thus :
(
+ 1) /
(o)
/
(-1)
6/4/3
I
Ticks are entered opposite the direct hits.
I
The checking-up is usually done immediately the experiments are
completed, though in some of the earlier sittings it was done at the end of
'
each sheet, and later on at the end of three sheets. The two experimenters
as well as (O) append their signatures at the bottom of each scoring sheet.
In the earlier sittings B.S. often watched the decoding and checking-up
as a passive observer, but after June 1941 he w'as seldom present at the
, checking-up, having left the Studio. (The exact procedure on each
* occasion is noted in Part III : The Chronicle). He would usually return
after we had finished, but as a rule he was (after June 1941) not told his
exact scores. After a successful sitting we would remark to him “ The
results were first-rate today ” or something of that sort. If the results
were poor we would tell him “ Not so good today ”. He was never much
depressed by poor scores, but neither was he unduly elated by good scores.
His general attitude was one of detachment and often he seemed quite
indifferent as to the outcome of his performance. Certainly there was
none of that emotional stress which some experimenters have described
1 as existing in their Subjects.
In connection with the above method of decoding and checking-up, it
must be understood that we have made many variations and changes of
’ personnel in order to discount the criticism that the same two persons
playing the same roles might be in collusion to falsify the records. All the
independent observers were satisfied that the task of checking-up was
performed in a straightforward manner, and many have testified to this
^ in writing. The experimenters frequently asked the Observer if he would
(
like to re-check independently some of the higher scores. Professor H.
Habberley Price, for instance, himself selected three columns of high
scores and re-checked independently both the decoding and the counting
of hits. No errors were found.
We may cite one or two examples of variation :
(i) On 21 December 1941 Mr C. A. Mace stood between K.M.G. and
J: S.G.S. so that he could check both the letter read out by S.G.S. and the
I
correctness of the number entered (in ink) by K.M.G. who did the
decoding. He reported no errors and highly significant (
+ i) scores were
recorded. (See List of Scores, p. 114 and The Chronicle.)
42 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
(2) On 5 December 1941, Sir Ernest Bennett read aloud B.S.’s guesses
while K.M.G. decoded and entered the numbers (in ink) with S.G.S.
looking on and checking her. R.E. also watching. Results highly signi-
ficant. (See List of Scores, p. 113 and The Chronicle.)
(3) On 24 October 1941, Dr C.E.M. Joad decoded the first three
j
sheets entirely alone. The numbers were entered (in ink) by Mrs Wool-
lard, and Joad was checked by S.G.S. while R.E. checked Mrs Woollard.
At the end of Sheet 3, Joad had to leave for a lecture and the remaining
sheets were decoded by Mrs Woollard with R.E. and S.G.S. checking
her. Scores significant. (See p. 109 and The Chronicle.)
(4) At the four sittings on 8, 15, and 22 May 1942, and 8 April 1943, ^
Mr R. G. Medhurst, B.Sc., at the request of S.G.S., carried out entirely
alone the whole of the decoding, entering (in ink) and counting of scores.
This was confirmed by Medhurst in writing. Scores highly significant
on these occasions. (See List of Scores, pp. 117, 118, 119, 125 ;
and The
Chronicle.)
At the end of the decoding and the counting of hits, the totals for
each of the classes ( + 1), (o), and (-1), and the corresponding chance
expectations, are reckoned by S.G.S. and re-checked independently by -
K.M.G. with (O) usually looking on. The Standard Deviation and ,
Critical Ratios are approximately estimated before the experimenters
leave the premises.
Duplicate Records. The final task consists of making duplicates in I
ink of all the completed scoring sheets. This work is usually shared be- f
tween K.M.G., S.G.S. and R.E. After being signed by both experi- |
menters, the duplicates are, in full view of all present, placed in an ;
envelope that is stamped and addressed to Professor C. D. Broad, Trinity
College, Cambridge. The envelope is posted in the presence of not less than [;
three people in the post-box in the street a few yards from B.S.’s Studio. f
By this time the Observer, if any, has usually departed. K.M.G. and i
S.G.S. now adjourn to a restaurant where scores are re-checked, results j
discussed, and plans made for future experiments.
S.G.S. takes the record sheets back with him to Cambridge or to his
home in Essex as the case may be, and there proceeds to make a complete ^
re-check of both the decoding and counts of successes, and also counts all
(+2) (precognitive) and all (-2) (postcognitive) hits and records the |
totals for each column. No error in the whole period was ever discovered
j
in the decoding, but on one occasion it was found that a single pre- i
cognitive (
+ 1) hit had been overlooked in a count. This is testimony
to the accuracy of those concerned in the decoding and counting.^
The Statistical Method. The statistical methods employed in the
|
straightforward evaluation of the results of experiments in card-cognition i
are now so well established, and have been the subject of such thorough |
discussion since the year 1937, that no-one, we think, will any longer
question their validity. The statistical battle was fought and won by the |
Duke University experimenters and since 1938 no further opposition has
been encountered on this score.
' For results of independent re-check of all scoring sheets, see pp. 86-87. l|
43
i6y] Experiments in Precogniiive Telepathy
In the present investigation the results obtained are so manifestly above
chance expectation that any critic would be simply wasting his time if he
ventured to attack them on statistical grounds. The use of prepared lists
of random digits (1-5) removes the last objection based on the suppo-
sition that the shuffling of packs of cards may not result in ideal random
distributions. It also renders ineffective those objections to the use of the
binomial formulae which were urged so persistently and (from a practical
standpoint) with such lack of success against the work of Rhine.
The reader who desires to know something of the history of these
statistical controversies will find a summary of them in Extra Sensory
Perception After Sixty Years (New York, Henry Holt & Co. 1940). In a
series of admirable appendices to the same book is given a collection of
statistical formulae which are of use in card-cognition tests. The
formulae referred to as “ Stevens ” formulae were first established by
W. L. Stevens in 1938 and his Paper appeared in the Annals of Eugenics,
Vol. VHI, Part HI, pp. 208-44.
Methods of Evaluation.^ Throughout this investigation we have
made no attempts to count beyond ( ± 2) displacements. The five scores
(
- i), (o), ( + i), ( -2), ( -1-2) only are considered. As our (PRN) distri-
bution of card presentations is a random series, the expectations on these
five scores are theoretically independent of each other. Since there seems
to be some misapprehension on this point, we shall illustrate the
independence of (
+ i) and (
— i) scores by taking an extreme case.
Each column of 25 calls provides 24 (
+ 1) trials and 24 (-1) trials.
The expected number of ( + i) hits is clearly (on an average) i of 24 = 4'8
and there is the same expectation of ( - i) hits. Let us suppose that by
an extraordinary fluke a Percipient got all the 24 (
+ 1) (precognitive)
guesses right. Then, with the exception of a possible success on the last
or twenty-fifth presentation, his only (
- i) (postcognitive) successes would
arise from multiply-determined presentations of the form
L L
E or L etc. (cf. p. 31)
L L
and on these and similar types he would score certain hits. But in a
random distribution there would be a mean expectation of i x 23 such
types. Hence his total mean expectation for (
— i) successes would be
i+ix 23=4'8
(since his expectation on the last presentation would be ^). Thus his high
(
+ 1) score has not affected his (
- i) expectation.
We should point out that throughout this report the probability corre-
sponding to a deviation X from mean chance expectation is understood
to be the probability of a deviation lying outside the range - X to 4- X.
In other words, we estimate our probability on the assumption that we
are just as interested in negative deviations as in positive deviations.
(I) In a series of N trials the mean expectation of successes is N/5
and the standard error is These formulae of course apply when
we are dealing with any of the five types (o) ( ± i) ( ± 2).
1
Cf. Pioc. xlvi, pp. 168-9.
44 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
(II) The expectation and variance can be found for each set of, say,
24 (
+ i) trials by Stevens’ method and the results summed for all setsd
It was shown in the 1934-1939 experiments that the variances obtained by
Stevens’ method are almost without exception very slightly less than those
given by the formula This was confirmed by scpring a large
batch of the present results by both methods (I) and (II). We are there-
fore on the safe side if we use as the theoretical Standard Error
instead of that given by Stevens’ formula which is tedious to evaluate.
The expectations have been found from Stevens’ formula.
(III) An empirical “ cross-check ” for each sheet in the case of the
(
+ i) scores was made by scoring column (a)G against column (b)A and
column (b)G against column (a)A. That is to say, the “ guesses ” (G)
division of the left hand half of the sheet was scored against the “ actual
card ” (A) division of the right hand half, and vice versa.
The “ Normal ” Rate of Guessing. A fairly rapid speed of guessing
seems essential if B.S. is to obtain significant results, and in this respect
he resembles G.N.M.Tyrrell’s Sensitive ^ and differs from many of the
Sensitives studied by Dr Rhine.
If the interval between successive card presentations is increased beyond
4 seconds, B.S. grows unhappy, restive, and irritable. At an interval of as
much as 5 seconds, he does not seem to be able to score any kind of success.
We made no systematic attempts at timing the guessing till 21 March 1941,
as we did not at first realise the effects the varying rates had upon the
results.
As already recorded, in the experiments previous to sitting 9 (21 March
^94^ )> (EA) on showing each number at the aperture in the screen called
“ Next ”, and immediately he had recorded his guess B.S. shouted
“ Right ”. This was a signal for (EA) to exhibit the next number at the
aperture. Until 21 March 1941, therefore, the rate of calling was deter-
mined by B.S. himself. He adapted himself to a rate that was fairly
quick but comfortable for both himself and the experimenters. In order
to reassure us that he was keeping in step with (EA) he would call out at
the end of every 5 guesses “ Five ”, ” Ten ”, “ Fifteen ”, “ Twenty ”,
“ Twentyfive ”. But on and after 21 March 1941 (P) dispensed with
calling “ Right ” after each guess and (EA) no longer shouted “ Next ”
but called out instead the serial numbers “ One ”, “ two ”, “ three ”...
“ twentyfour ”, “ twentyfive ”, to facilitate and ensure the synchronisation
of (P)’s recording with (EA)’s calling.
Obviously synchronisation is of primary importance for any evaluation of
the results. It was noted by several Observers who acted as (EP) in the
earlier experiments, that on occasion B.S. wrote down his eighteenth guess,
say, the merest fraction of a second before (EA) called “ eighteen ”. When
we discovered this tendency, we were constantly warning him against it
and by 16 May 1941 he was writing down his guesses almost simul-
taneously with or about -4 of a second after the call from (EA). During
the six months that S.G.S. acted as (EP), he frequently timed the intervals
between (EA)’s calls and (P)’s recording of his guess ;
and during the
^
Cf. Proc. xlvi, pp. 168-9.
^ See Proc. vol. xliv, Part 147.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 45
whole of this period S.G.S. noted that on no occasion did (P) record his
guess before (EA)’s call. It was as a rule recorded at about -2 to -4 seconds
after the call.
We had hoped to use a metronome to keep the intervals between
successive calls constant, but (P) said it was quite impossible for him to
work with “ that confounded thing ticking away in the other room ”.
So we had to abandon this plan. Nor, in fact, would it be an easy thing
for (EA) to regulate with completely accurate timing to the split second,
and at the required rate, the difficult task of reading off accurately the
list of figures, quickly picking up the correct card, and presenting it neatly
at the small aperture in the screen. This is a task which requires consider-
able dexterity and concentration at the best!
B.S.’s comfortable rate of guessing varies between limits of about 50
seconds and 80 seconds for a column of 25 calls, and we entitle it the
“ Normal Rate ”. Throughout a single sitting it remains fairly constant
but varies somewhat with the person who plays the part of (EA). Of 255
columns of 25 calls timed at “ normal rate ”, the average time for 25 calls
is 62-33 seconds, which corresponds to an average inten^al of 2-60 seconds
between successive calls. The standard error for a column is 11-38
seconds (observ^ed value).
An inspection of Table XXXV Appendix (F), shows that it is safe to
conclude that significant successes on ( + i
)
guesses have been obtained
at practically all rates between 50 and 80 seconds for a column of 25 calls.
We shall later discuss the effects of more rapid calling.
Explanation of Table I (p. 46). This Table records all the pre-
cognitive ( + 1) guesses and hits made by B.S. over the total period when
working with Prepared Random Numbers at the “ normal rate ” in con-
junction with our first Agent, R.E. It will be seen that the cumulative
results over eleven months amount to over 13 times the Standard Devia-
tion. The odds against such a result being due to chance are, on a con-
servative estimate, indicated by a figure consisting of 10 with 35 noughts
added, to one.
All the experiments recorded in Table I are “ telepathy ” experiments,
but on some occasions sheets of “ clairvoyance ” experiments were inter-
spersed among, or regularly alternated with the telepathic tests (see
p. 49 ff). Except on the dates 14 and 25 August 1941, the material for
telepathic transmission consisted of pictures of the five animals. On the
dates mentioned, experiments with the animal pictures were alternated
with experiments in which cards inscribed with the associated words
Trunk, Mane, Beak, Stripes, and Neck were substituted for the corre-
sponding animal pictures (see pp. 71-72). These latter experiments are of
course included in Table I, but all “ clairvoyance ” experiments are
excluded and evaluated separately (Tables II, III, IV and V, pp. 49-51).
On 24 September 1941 and 14 November 1941 the sheets for experi-
ments at “ normal ” speed were alternated with sheets for experiments
in which the interv'al between successive card presentations was increased
to 5 seconds. These “ Slow Rate ” experiments are of course not included
in Table I, which is confined to experiments at “ Normal Rate ”. Table X
gives the results for all calls at “ Slow Rate ” (see p. 54).
46 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
The second column (Average Interval) gives the average interval in
seconds between successive card presentations. The third column gives
the total numbers of ( + i) trials on each date. It will be seen that these
numbers are multiples of 24 except on 23.5. 1941 when the total is 189
instead of 192, owing to the fact that Dr Wiesner, acting as (EP), reported
that B.S. missed the last four calls in one column. Columns four and five
give, respectively, the actual number of ( + i) hits scored on each date and
the expected number (E) computed by Stevens’ method. Column six
(CC + i) gives the empirical number of hits obtained on the cross-check ;
and in column seven is the. value of y = Dev/S. D. {i.e. the Critical Ratio)
for each date. For explanation of the abbreviations in the last column
see pp. 23-24.
TABLE I. (PRN) (Tel.) (Normal Rate) (Agent ; R.E.)
(recording all the precognitive ( + 1) guesses and hits over the total period
when working with Prepared Random Numbers at the “ normal ” speed
with R.E. as Agent.)
I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Date Average ( + 1) (-1) E( + i) CC Value Type of
Interval Trials Hits Stevens ( + 1) of X Experiment
24. I. 41 N.T. 192 67 39-66 47 + 4-93 TP
31. 1.41 N.T. 192 30 40-62 38 - 1-92 TP
7. 2.41 N.T. 144 39 28-54 29 + 2-18 TP
14. 2.41 N.T. 240 88 50-29 61 -t 6-09 TP
21. 2.41 N.T. 192 50 39-83 36 + I -84 TP
28. 2.41 N.T. 288 99 60-75 68 + 5-63 TP
7 - 3-41 N.T. 144 52 30-54 25 + 4-47 TP
14- 3-41 N.T. 144 48 30-04 25 + 3-74 TP
23 - 5-41 2-74 189 61 38-84 48 -44-03 TP
14. 8.41 2-58 384 105 78-21 73 + 3-42 TP/TA
25. 8.41 2-45 288 78 57-42 61 + 3-03 TP/TA
24. 9.41 310 192 58 38-79 41 + 3-47 TPN/TPS
10. 10.41 256 144 29 29-42 26 -009 TP
24.10.41 2-84 192 S6 39-04 37 + 3-06 TP/CP
7.11.41 2-56 144 30 28-08 29 -f 0-40 TP/CP
14. I I .41 2-43 192 54 38-50 45 + 2-80 TPN/TPS
21 .1 1 .41 2-99 144 40 28-71 35 + 2-35 TP/CP
S. 12.41 2'33 192 59 40-12 36 + 3-41 TP/CP
21 .12.41 2-15 192 58 38-42 38 + 3-53 TP/CP
Totals — 3789 I lOI 775-82 798 + 13-2
N.B.—The probabilities corresponding to the values of x iti column 7
should all be multiplied by 5 in order to find the odds that at least one of the
five categories (o), (±1), (±2) show's a numerical deviation exceeding the
magnitude recorded.
Comments on Table I. (A) It will be noted that the total expectation
of (
+ 1) precognitive hits as evaluated by Stevens’ method (775-82), is
somewhat higher than N/5 = 3789/5 = 757-8. The reason for this is not
far to seek. Since there is a high degree of paranormal cognition, it is
seen that when a column contains an excess of presentations of some partic-
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy \~]
ular symbol, (P) tends to guess that particular symbol more times than if
it were not present in excess. This is confirmed by some later experi-
ments. Hence in Stevens’ formula (E= T a,g,/N), if a high value of a,
r — 1
is associated with a high value of g,. and vice versa, the expectation is
increased as a general rule. Thus in our experiments the use of Stexens
formula instead of N/5 is on the safe side. The difference between the
two expectations is very small where there is no extra sensory cognition.
(B) The totals of Table I give
( + 1) Trials ( + i)Hits (E) Dev. St. Dev. x
3789 iioi 775'82 325 ’i8 24-62 132
It follows that the chance of getting a ( ^ )
deviation of this magnitude
or greater is certainly less than lo-^^. Since, however, our score was
chosen as the best out of five scores (
i2)(o) (
Ti), the chance of getting at
least one of the five scores with a deviation as large as the above will
(approximately) be less than 5 x The factor 5 of course scarcely
affects the order of the result. The probabilities which correspond to
the values of x given under different dates in Table I should of course all
be multiplied by 5.
(C) As the total scores on (±2) and (o) and (-1) are not significant,
we have not evaluated their expectations by Stevens’ method. These
totals are given in Table ia below.
(D) The cross-check total under (CC + i) is in close agreement with
expectation.
TABLE Ia (Appendix to Table I)
(PRN) (Tel.) (Normal Rate) (Agent : R.E.)
N.B .
—O = Observed number of hits . E = expected number
.
Trials
(
-2)
3630
( -i)
3788
(0)
3946
( + 1)
3789
(+2)
3632
E - _ 726 757-6 789-2 775-82 726-4
0 - - 714 768-0 829-0 1 101-00 703-0
Dev. _ - 12 + 10-4 + 39-8 + 325-18 -23-4
St. Dev. - 24-10 24-62 25-13 24-62 24-11
From Table Ia it is clear that apart from the large precognitive ( + i)
deviation, none of the other deviations is anywhere near significance.
There is however some evidence that under the influence of suggestion,
sufficiently prolonged, B.S. is on occasion able to score significantly upon
the actual card being looked at by the Agent {i.e. direct hits).
On 24 January 1941 (the first experiment), he scored significantly on
(4-1) hits, while on the “ actual card ” he obtained only 40 hits in 200
trials, which is clearly a chance result. At the close of the experiments on
this date, S.G.S. asked B.S. to keep reminding himself during the follow-
ing week that at the next sitting on 31 January he was going to score
direct hits and not precognitive hits. Each day during the week^ S.G.S.
kept repeating aloud “ B.S. will score direct hits next Friday . The
experiment was a striking success. On 31 January B.S. scored an almost
48 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
significant negative deviation on ( + i
)
guesses but on the actual card
itself he won 76 hits in 200 trials : an excess of +36 above chance ex-
pectation, and equivalent to 6-36 times the Standard Deviation with
P<io“* (For the actual scores see Part II, List of Scores, p. 89, Sitting
No. 2).
At the end of the experiment on 31 January, S.G.S. asked B.S. to con-
centrate during the following week on the idea of scoring ( + 1) precog-
nitive successes. S.G.S. during the week preceding the next experiment
again repeated aloud several times a day “ B.S. will score precognitive
hits next week ”. The results were disappointing, but this may have
been due to the presence of K.M.G. and Mr H. Chibbett, both of whom
B.S. was meeting for the first time. It has been noted by Rhine, Tyrrell,
and others, that the effect of introducing a new personality on the scene
is sometimes a temporary lowering of the score. On 150 “ direct ” trials
B.S. scored 43 hits, which is an excess of + 13 above expectation and equi-
valent to 2-65 times the Standard Deviation ;
while on 144 ( + 1) trials he
won 39 (
+ 1) hits, equivalent (on Stevens’ scoring) to 2-18 times the
Standard Deviation. The chance of getting at least two of the five scores
(o), ( ±1), ( ±2), with a deviation as high as 2-18 Standard Deviations is
approximately 10 x (-0293)2 = o-oo86, which corresponds to odds of the
order 100 : i. But contrary to the suggestion given, the “ direct ” score
is a little higher than the ( + i) score (see p. 90, Sitting No. 3).
After this we did not continue with the method of suggestion described
above. During the succeeding weeks, in which there was an influx of
fresh visitors, the interest of everyone became centred on the precognitive
scores. We talked to B.S. only of “ precognition ”. All this may have
had the effect of directing his faculty into the precognitive channel from
which it scarcely ever strayed for a whole year.
As certain people seem afraid of experiments in which the odds against
chance are clear and decisive, and apparently prefer results of dubious
significance, a few words may not be out of place on the question of high
scores. Odds of millions to one against chance are the inevitable conse-
quence of the consistent operation of a real psi faculty. Odds of only
seventy or a hundred to one soon give rise, if repeated for a few weeks, to
odds of astronomical magnitude : since probabilities are combined by the
law of multiplication and not of addition. ConsisteJicy is the real test. Are
positive results obtained week after week under first-class experimental
conditions and in the presence of intelligent observers.? If so, it is a proof
that we are investigating a real faculty and not dealing with a few vagaries
of chance-coincidence.
If, say, an experimenter makes his Subject do a thousand guesses and
obtains a positive deviation from chance expectation of only 2-8 times the
Standard Deviation, and then goes on to put the Subject through another
ten thousand trials with only chance results—it is open to the experimenter
to claim that the Sensitive showed extra sensory cognition for the first
thousand trials but that the faculty then petered out. It is however
equally open to another to maintain, with a much greater show of reason,
that there never was any faculty in operation and that all that happened
was that the Subject had an initial run of luck. But if we, in these experi-
ments with our Sensitive, go on getting (as we do) odds of hundreds or
49
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy
thousands to one time after time over a period of two years, and if, more-
over, we find (as we do) that when the experimental conditions are varied
in the same fashion the results exhibit consistent changes in character
then we are in a strong position which is proof against the theory of mere
flukes of chance.
“Clairvoyance” Experiments. Our first variation with the (PRN)
method was to introduce, unknown to B.S., sheets of 50 calls during which
the Agent did not know the order of the five cards in the box but merely
touched their backs at each call without turning them up. A couple of
sheets of these “ clairvoyance ” tests were interspersed each week more or
less randomly among the ordinary “ telepathy ” tests. Before commenc-
ing on a “ clairvoyance ” sheet, the Agent, R.E., w'ould shuffle the five
cards with her eyes shut and lay them on the floor of the box without
having seen their faces. On a good many occasions the five cards were
shuffled by an Observer (O) out of sight of the Agent or of anyone else
in the room.^ When (EA) showed the random number card at the aperture
in the screen, the Agent, R.E., touched the corresponding card without
lifting it to look at it. But as there was no other difference in procedure,
B.S. was kept in ignorance that any variation had been introduced.
Considered as an experiment in Pure Clairvoyance the test was far from
satisfactory. It could, for instance, have been suggested that the Agent
might succeed in recognising the five cards by noting specks etc. on their
backs (though probably the light inside the box was not good enough to
make this possible.) Had (P) obtained any significant degree of success
in this admittedly defective test, we should have gone on to perfect it and
seal the cards up in opaque envelopes etc. But these refinements proved
unnecessary since the “ clairvoyance ” experiments invariably failed.
Between 24 January 1941 and 28 February 1941, ten sheets of “ clair-
voyance ” experiments were completed, and the results—completely
negative on all five scores—are given in Table II.
TABLE II
(PRN) (Clairvoyance) (First Series) (Normal Rate)
(Results ; completely negative)
— 2 —2 —I —I o o +i +iE( + i) CC +2 +2
Date Trials Hits Trials Hits Trials Hits Trials Hits Stevens ( + i) Trials Hits
24. 1.41 92 22 96 20 100 21 96 21 19-17 22 92 13
31.1.41 92 19 96 21 100 20 96 20 19-33 18 92 12
7.2.41 92 15 96 29 100 19 96 19 18-79 27 92 16
I4.2.4I 92 17 96 20 100 13 96 20 19-37 17 92 27
28.2.41 92 21 96 16 100 25 96 18 19-37 17 92 20
Totals 460 94 480 106 500 98 480 98 96-03 lOI 460 88
An inspection of this Table shows that all scores are close to the expected
values. The cross-check total under (CC + i) for precognitive (
+ 1)
guesses is in close agreement with expectation.
^ See The Chronicle.
5 ° 5. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part;
Clairvoyance Experiments, Second Series. A further series of
experiments was carried out in which sheets of “ clairvoyance ” were i
alternated not randomly but rigorously with sheets of “ telepathy In
'
this second series B.S. was told that the sheet was for “ clairvoyance ” on
“ telepathy” as the case might be. Thus (EA) would call out ” Sheet;
No. I, Telepathy”—“Sheet No. 2, Clairvoyance”
—“Sheet No. 3, i
Telepathy ”, and so on. The rest of the procedure was the same as in the ,
1
first series. The regular alternation of the two categories would tend to
eliminate any differences due to fatigue and show up clearly B.S.’s re-
action to the two types of experiment. While the “ telepathy ” sheets
^
produced highly significant scores, the “ clairvoyance ” results were again ,
only what chance might be expected to produce.
TABLE III
(PRN) (Clairvoyance, Second Series, alternated with Telepathy in sheets
of 50 calls), (Normal Rate) (Clairvoyance results completely negative)
Extracted “ Clairvoyance ” Sheets
- 2 — 2 - I “ I 0 0 +
1
+
1
E( + i) CC + 2 + 2
Date Trials Hits Trials Hits Trials Hits Trials Hits Stevens ( + i) Trials Hits
24. 10.41 138 26 144 32 150 32 144 29 30-21 27 138 25
7. II. 41 138 31 144 27 150 30 144 20 29-08 30 138 24
21. 1 1.41 138 25 144 30 150 31 144 36 29-52 26 138 26
5. 12.41 184 38 192 48 200 58 192 42 39-54 46 184 33
21. 12.41 138 32 144 22 150 33 144 33 28-29 25 138 24
Totals 736 152 768 159 800 184 768 160 156-64 154 736 132
The values of X for the five total scores are ;as follows :
(•-2) (-1) (0) ( + I) (+2)
X + 44 + -49 + 2-12 + -30 - 1-38
The one just significant value, +2- 12 for (o), can be ascribed to chance
since it is selected from five scores.
It is interesting to compare the “ telepathy ” scores in this second
series with the alternated “ clairvoyance ” scores on the precognitive
(
+ 1) trials (See Part II, List of Scores for all Experiments, under the
above dates).
TABLE IV
(Scoring on alternated “ Telepathy ” and “ Clairvoyance ” Sheets)
( + 1 Trials) ( + i Hits) E. (Stevens) St. Dev. x
Telepathy - 864 243 i74'37 11-76 5-84
Clairvoyance - 768 160 156-64 1108 <i
For the telepathy results P<Oo~^ on a very conservative estimate. In
other words, the “ telepathy ” experiments show odds against chance of at
least ten million to i, whereas the “ clairvoyance ” experiments give results
entirely consistent with chance.
16?] Experimeyits in Precognitive Telepathy 51
TABLE V
Clairvoyance (Series i and 2 combined) Result : entirely negative.
E = expected number of hits : O = observed number of hits
(-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2)
Trials - 1 196 1248 1300 1248 1196
E - 239-2 249-6 260 252-67 239-2
0 - 246 265 282 258 220
Dev. - + 6-8 ^ 15-4 + 22-0 + 5-33 - 19-2
St. Dev. - 13-83 14-13 14-42 14-13 13-83
X - < I + I'l + 1-5 < I - 1-4
Obviously none of the five deviations is significant.
The cross-check (CC + i) total for the combined series is 255 which is
in close agreement with the (Stevens’) expectation (252-67).
The average intervals between card presentations for the five experi-
ments of Series 2 were 2-85 ;
2-56 ; 2-99 ;
2-30 ;
and 2-06 seconds.
Series i was not timed.
Experiments with Counters. The experiments described in the pre-
ceding sections made it highly probable that B.S. succeeds only when the
Agent knows the order of the five pictures in the box. Our next step was
to discover whether the experiment would succeed if, instead of using
prepared lists of random numbers, the experimenter (EA) determined the
Agent’s selection of cards by drawing counters from a bag or bowl at
random. This would produce durmg the process of the experiment the
“ number factor ” governing the cards, in place of a series of prepared
random numbers already in existence before the experim.ent began.
For this purpose 200 bone counters of the same make and size but in
five different colours were thoroughly mixed inside a cloth bag, there being
equal numbers of each colour. The five colours stood for the digits 1-5
in the following order ;
White = i; Yellow = 2 ;
Green = 3 ;
Red = 4; and Blue = 5.
In order to assist the Agent, five counters with colours in the above
order from left to right were placed in a row on top of the box, so that
when (EA) showed, say, a red counter at the aperture in the screen,
(A) would merely have to lift up the card directly beneath the red counter
before her. In actual practice the association between the card positions
and colours is rapidly memorised, so that the appearance of a colour at
the aperture results in the Agent’s almost automatic selection of the
correct card.
After an abortive attempt by S.G.S. who proved to be far too slow in
extracting the counters at the required speed (by no means easy), this
job was relegated to K.M.G. who was much more successful in presenting
the counters at a constant and “ normal ” rate. On 14 March 1941, how-
ever, in K.M.G. ’s absence Miss Ina Jephson selected the counters. In
the first two experiments, 7 March and 14 March, (EA) drew the counters
from a cloth bag, replacing each counter in the bag after it had been
5 ^ S. G. Soul and K. M. Goldney ~
[part Ij
exposed at the aperture in the screen. After the sitting on 7 March,
K.M.G. wrote a short report in which she described her method of l
extracting the counters at the required speed. She writes ;
'
“I arranged the bag so that the counters were easily accessible. I then ;j
dipped each hand in alternately and showed a counter at the screen-aperture j
with one hand while the other hand was already delving in the bag for the
next counter. At intervals I hesitated just long enough to give the bag a j
quick shake, and always picked out counters from all corners, and above ’
and below, in order to avoid picking the same counters up twice so far as
possible.”
On and after 21 March, K.M.G. found it more practicable to
place all the counters in an open bowl. In order to avoid conscious
selection, which would destroy the desired random character of the
presentations, she stood up, looking straight over the top of the screen,
and selected the counters with alternate hands, letting them fall back into
the bowl, and extracting them by touch alone and without looking towards
the bowl.
Now, although this method of selection appears to give approximately
equal numbers of each of the five colours when the extraction is done at
normal speed, this is certainly no longer the case when the speed of
calling is doubled, as it subsequently was. Even at a comfortable “ nor- 1
mal rate we doubt if the distribution is “ random ” in the sense that a
series of numbers taken from logarithmic tables (with due precautions) is
a random sequence. But when the rate of selection of the counters is
j
increased to, say, 35 seconds for a run of 25, the numbers become very
unequal. This, we think, is probably due to the fact that at this increased
speed there is not sufficient time for the experimenter’s hand to delve into I
all parts of the bowl as described in K.M.G. ’s note quoted above. If,
therefore, there happens to be, say, an excess of white counters on the
surface of the bowl, the white counters may be picked up more frequently
than those of the other colours.
In their Introducttoji to the Theory of Statistics (p. 339), the authors i
Yule and Kendal say :
Sight is not the only sense which may bias a sampling method. In ;
certain experiments counters of the same shape but of different colours were
put into a bag and chosen one at a time, the counter chosen being put back
and the bag thoroughly shaken before the next trial. On the face of it this 1
appears to be a purely random method of drawing the counters. Neverthe- j
less there emerged a persistent bias against counters of one particular colour.
After a careful investigation the only explanation seemed to be that these
particular counters were slightly more greasy than the others owing to
peculiarities of the pigment, and hence slipped through the sampler’s ?
fingers.”
We cannot comment here on their explanation, but quote it as somewhat
relevant to the point we are discussing.
A machine which produced a random sequence of presentations at the i
required rapid rates would of course have served our purpose better than
the bag or bowl. The ingenious machine designed by Mr Geoffrey
Redmayne, based essentially on the principle of the roulette wheel.
I
PLATE
III
PLATE
IV
I
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 53
seemed at first sight to meet all our requirements. It could be used to
generate a random series of 5 numbers, or pictures, or symbols of any sort.
But unfortunately, owing to the time taken for the wheel to come to rest,
the interval between successive presentations would have exceeded five
seconds whereas, as we have already stated, this rate is too slow if B.S. is
to score significant results.
Moreover, human volition would not enter into the working of a
machine in the same way as it is manifest when a person draws counters
from a bag or bowl. The sampler can, for instance, exercise choice as to
the corner of the bag in which he feels for his counter. If he has merely to
press a button which sets a machine in motion (as in G. Redmayne’s
machine), he does not possess the same degree of freedom. Had a mechani-
cal selector been available, we should certainly have made use of it, since
a random sequence was desirable for our immediate purpose ;
though, as
suggested earlier, the introduction of an element of choice into experi-
ments resulting in precognition on the part of (P), raises a far more
extensive and intriguing problem.
As K.M.G. showed the counters at the aperture and called to (P),
S.G.S., sitting beside (A) and acting as Recorder, recorded the cor-
responding numbers in the (A) column of the empty scoring sheets. In
sittings 7-10, S.G.S., while recording, sat by the side of the box in such
a position that he could not see the cards. But in subsequent sittings at
which counters were used he sat behind the Agent in such a position that
he could not only record the counters but was able at the same time to
check the cards selected by the Agent. As in all experiments [cf. p. 40),
the only person to speak a single word was (EA) who did not know and could
not possibly see the order of the cards. While K.M.G. and S.G.S. were
occupied with the counters in the Studio, an observer (O) acted as (EP) in
the ante-room. The new method did not affect the successful scoring.
Variation of Experiments with Animal Picture Cards. On 28
March 1941, instead of using pictures of animals, white cards were used
on which had been printed in block letters the initials of the five -animals
L, E, G, P, Z. The backs of the cards were blank. In order that the Agent
should be able to recognise immediately the letter on the card even if the
latter were only raised slightly, the initial was repeated three times in
miniature at the top and bottom.
B.S. was not told of this change in presentation material until four
sheets at “ normal rate ” had been completed. The results show that the
substitution of initial letters for pictures of the animals did not materially
affect the successful scoring.^
In the next two e.xperiments of this sort on 18 April and 6 June
1941, “Initial Letters” and “ Pictures of Animals ” were alternated in
sheets of 50 at the beginning of the experiment (B.S. being informed of
the change). On 13 June 1941 pictures were used for the first sheet only.
The pictures were then removed and replaced by white cards on which
had been written in block letters the “ Associated Words ” Trunk, Mane,
Beak, Stripes, and Neck. B.S. was not informed that the cards had been
1
See Table VI (p. 54) ;
and again at a later date and the experiments recorded
in Table XV (p. 65) and XVI (p. 66).
D
54 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
changed till the end of the sitting. He was then told that there had been
a change but he was not enlightened as to its nature. This was the first
occasion on which the “ Associated Words ” were employed. The experi-
ment on this occasion showed a negative result, but it was resumed in
August with a better technique and with positive results.^
It is interesting to note that B.S. explained to Mr. Richmond (at sitting
No. 6 on 28 February 1941) that he seldom gets a mental picture of the
animal, but writes down the initial letter “ almost automatically ”. That
is to say, all he experiences is a motor impulse to write the initial letter.
Explanation of Table VI. This Table records the precognitive (
+ i)
guesses and hits made by B.S. in all the experiments with counters at the
“ normal rate ” in conjunction with the first Agent, R.E. Without
exception the experiments are “ telepathy ” experiments.
TABLE VI
(Counters) (Tel.) (Normal Rate) (Agent : R.E.)
(Precognitive ( + 1) guesses and hits in all experiments with counters at
normal rate with Agent R.E.)
Av. ( + 1 ) ( + 1) E( + i) (CC) Value
Date Int. Trials Hits Stevens ( + 1 ) of X Type
7 -
3 -
4 I NT 144 59 2933 35 6-18 TP
I 4 -
3 -
4 I 326 144 50 31-17 25 3.92 TP
21.3-41 2-77 144 61 2962 24 6-54 TP
28.3.41 3-12 192 57 3937 40 3 -i 8 TL
18.4.41 2-78 138 37 2662 30 2-21 TP/TL
6.6.41 2'6o 144 49 28-54 27 4-26 TP/TL
r 13.6.41 3-02 48 I I 10-04 I I
—
1 13.6.41 2-49 240 41 49-21 55 -1-32 TA /
3.1.42 212 384 74 7729 80 -0-42 TP
Totals — 1578 439 321-19 327 7'4
Comments ON
'
Table VI. (A) We note once: more that the total
expectation (321-19) as found by Stevens’ method is somewhat higher than
A/5 = 315-60. The total on the cross-checks (327) is in excellent agree-
ment with either value of the expectation.
(B) The critical ratio (;)()
on the 1578 trials is 7-4 and, on a very con-
servative estimate, the chance that at least one of the five scores (o),
( ± i), ( ±2) should attain a critical ratio of this magnitude is 5 x 2-56 x
= i2-8xio~i2, indicating an enormously significant result.
(C) It will be noted that on 18 April 1941 there were only 138 (-f i)
trials instead of 144. Dr. Wiesner, who was acting as (EP) on this occasion,
reported that at call No. 20 on sheet 3a, B.S. hesitated and got completely
out of step. The last six (
+ i) trials were therefore not taken into account.
(D) The failure with TA (Telepathy with Associated Words) on
13 June 1941 may have arisen from our having started the experiment
with pictures and having then made the sudden change, without giving
B.S. the slightest warning. On the other hand, if we had continued with
lij]
iief
ssti
(e:
liar)’
Wi
ad I
said
lesh
totr
itei
distil
irfiic
jivei
2,3,
Slice
kf
rorl
PF
taini
E:
itliei
K1
‘i
no
lioni
llci
Ino
dial
Usa
R
and
sid-
cou
If, I
not
(N(
the
resi
mi
Th
K,:
pre
hai
(Se
W'i:
* See p. 71 ff.
pn
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 55
the pictures the experiment might have failed equally. At a later date,
g as stated above, this same experiment succeeded.
(E) Some remarks are offered on the failure of experiments on 3 Jan-
j,
uary 1942. After B.S. had completed the first two sheets, the experimen-
ters made the suggestion to B.S. that he should now re-orient his mind
and try only for “ direct ” hits on sheets 3 and 4. He made the effort but
I ^said it caused mental confusion. At the end of sheet 4 we suggested that
lu
he should try for ( + i
)
hits throughout sheets 5 and 6. Finally he was urged
j(
to try for “ direct ” hits in sheets 7 and 8. It will be seen on referring to
the List of Scores (p. 115) that during the first two sheets, before any
1' disturbing suggestion had been made, the ( + 1) scores ran : 5, 7, 8, 8,
[k which is quite a good beginning. Immediately after the suggestion was
n given to “ re-orient ” and try for “ direct ” hits, the ( + i) scores fell to
2, 3, in the next sheet and never recovered. Nor was there any significant
; success on “ direct ” hits in sheets 3, 4, 7 and 8. This sort of suggestion
—
forced on to (P) in the middle of an experiment—may well upset the
working of the psi faculty, and is, of course, very different from that
mentioned in connection with the experiment of 31 January 1941 (see
pp. 47-48) in which the suggestion of scoring on “ direct ” hits was main-
‘I
tained over a whole week preceding the experiment.
Experiments with Counters at Rapid Rate. On 21 March 1941
when Mr Kenneth Richmond (Editor, S.P.R. Journal) acted as (EP),
we made an important discovery. After completing three sheets at the
“ normal ” speed (av. int : = 2'77 secs, between successive card presenta-
tions), it was suggested that the experiment should be speeded up so that
the interval between each call was halved, if this proved to be practicable.
In order to facilitate this rapid rate of presentation, K.M.G., who had been
drawing counters from a cloth bag, now emptied them into a bowl, and
used the technique already described on p. 52.
Richmond sat with B.S. to see that he kept in step, noting hesitations
and gaps, if any, and using a stop-watch. S.G.S. sat next the Agent by the
side of the box, so that he could not see the cards, and recorded the
counters. It was impressed on B.S. that he must keep in step at all costs.
If, on hearing the call for a certain cell, B.S. found that his response did
not arrive quickly enough, he was instructed to leave that cell a blank
so that he would be ready to fill in the next cell the instant its serial
number was called.
The new experiment was a strain on all concerned. After three sheets
(Nos. 4, 5, 6) were completed, we checked up the results. We all expected
the experiment would be a failure, and we found in fact no significant
results on the categories (o), ( + i) or (
- i) although the preceding experi-
ments at “ normal ” rate had yielded significant scores on ( + 1) trials.
Then the suggestion was made—whether by K. Richmond or S.G.S. or
K.M.G. we cannot now recall—that a count should be made of the ( + 2)
precognitive hits. When this was done, it was at once obvious that B.S.
had been scoring significantly on (
+ 2) presentations instead of ( + i ).
(See List of Scores, p. 95). In other words, when the speed of the calling
was approximately doubled, his precognitive faculty skipped the ( + 1)
presentation and pounced upon the one which immediately followed it.
56 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
iU'4
'-,re
Ts
In order to make sure of our discovery, three more sheets (after a fifteen
minutes’ rest) were done at the same rapid speed. These were sheets
Nos. 7, 8, 9. The results confirmed our previous observation.
In sheets 4, 5, 6, B.S. had left no gaps and had kept perfectly in step|^
with the calling. But at column 7a, B.S. shouted “ Stop ” after recording
his entry for call No. 13. After a few seconds’ pause he shouted “ Con-
tinue No. 14 ”. K.M.G. then continued “
14 ”, “
15 ”, etc. at the rapid
rate till the end of the column. During column 7b, B.S. left three blanks
spaces after call No. 5, but did not get out of step. He left another blank
'
space at call No. 15, and completed the column.
For the total six sheets at rapid rate, the average interval between
successive calls was 1-44 seconds, equivalent to an average time of 34‘6
seconds for 25 calls. With our present methods we have not found it
humanly possible to work at any substantially higher speed than that! Total
recorded in this experiment.
All trials at the “ rapid ” rate with the Agent R.E. are included in„^'
Tables VII and Vila (below). The first Table is devoted to (
+ 1)
’
scores and the second to ( + 2) scores. The results should be compared
and show that at the “ rapid rate” the ( + 1) successes disappear but
that the ( +2) scores become highly significant. i! Co
As already reported on p. 52, it was discovered later that when counters
are selected by touch at the “ rapid ” speed and dropped back into the
bowl, the distribution so obtained is not strictly random and the numbers j a
of the different colours are somewhat unequal. Stevens’ method of (B
evaluating the expectation of hits allows of course for the inequality of thelfi
numbers, but at the same time it requires that the presentation objects. .p;
are randomly mixed. It would perhaps have been better if instead of
returning the counters to the bowl we had used a much larger number ofjiionj
them and had let each counter fall on the floor after being exposed.
However, with our third Agent, Mr J. Ah, we have obtained abundant
confirmation of the reality of the (+2) displacement when the speed is
doubled, by using prepared random numbers instead of counters. Hence npi;
we have no hesitation in asserting that the effect is a genuine effect. More- ;;
p,.
over it will be seen (Table VHa) that in the above counters experiments ii).;
a cross-check (CC+2) for (
+ 2) trials produced 148 hits, which agrees perr
excellently with the ( + 2) expectation obtained from Stevens’ method,
This is an additional confirmation.
Itc!"
TABLE VII
(Counters) (Tel.) (Rapid Rate) (Agent : R.E.)
( + i) Scores
Av. ( + 1) ( + 1) E( + i) Value V
Date Int. 'iVials Hits Stevens of X Type ibe
21.3-41 1-44 280 57 56-44 < I TP to!
28.3.41 I -40 181 34 34-94 < I TL I'lrf'’’
18.4.41 1-40 227 34 4609 - 201 TL
6.6.41 1-49 143 29 29-36 < I TP
fill.
Totals — 831 154 166-83 “1*1 bj'i
s67] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy
TABLE VI Ia
(Counters) (Tel.) (Rapid Rate) (Agent : R.E.)
( + 2) Scores
57
Av. (+2) (+2) E(4 2) Value
i Date Int. Trials Hits Stevens of X Type CC -f 2
['-I -3 41 144 265 84 53-60 + 4-67 TP 50
•
8-.
34 I 1-40 173 54 33-56 + 3-88 TL 29
1
8.4.41 I -40 219 63 44-58 + 3-11 TL 37
; 6.6.41 1 49 137 35 27-71 + 1-56 TP 32
I
v: Totals — 794 236 159-45 6-79 — 148
,
N.B.-—Table VII shows that at a rapid rate of calling the ( + i) successes
lave disappeared to be replaced by the highly significant ( + 2) score given
n Table VIIa.
k
I
Comments on Tables VII and VIIa. (A) Even when the ( + 2) score
I'll )f 6-79 X St. Dev. is considered as the best of the five scores ( iri), ( ±2),
‘"jo), the odds against chance are more than one hundred millions to i, and
herefore highly conclusive.
(B) The simplest hypothesis by wEich to account for this conversion
)f
(
+ i) precognitive hits into ( + 2) hits is to suppose that B.S. possesses a
pan of telepathic precognition which ranges between 2 and 3^ seconds into
he future, or possibly between 2 and 4 seconds. If the object of presenta-
ion is closer to his “ present instant ” than, say, two seconds, it is perhaps
00 near in time for him to perceive it and so he cognises the next object
vhich is within his span. We cannot of course attempt to fix too accur-
itely the upper and lower limits of this supposed span of precognition,
)ut the fact that B.S. invariably fails to cognise telepathic presentations at
;
seconds ahead of his “ present instant ” (see ff p. 58) strongly suggests
hat the upper limit is somewhere around 3i-4 seconds. All that it is
permissible to affirm is the possible existence of upper and lower limits.
iVhat these exact limits are could only be determined, if at all, by more
iccurate kinds of experiment. With our present rough methods it is
mpossible to do more than to suggest lines for future research.
An alternative hypothesis is to postulate that B.S. developed a fixed
precognitive time-habit engendered by the “ normal ” rate of calling to
vhich he had become accustomed during the earlier experiments. If his
'.pan into the future remained fixed while we doubled the rate of calling,
lis successes would fall on ( + 2) guesses instead of on ( + i). The fact
hat he fails entirely to precognise presentations at 5 seconds ahead, might
pe due to the fact that at this slow rate of calling the activity permitted
i
I
o his conscious mind militates against the emergence of the psi faculty
y
rom the subliminal level. The conception of a “ censor ” at the turnstile
jpetween conscious and subconscious levels, opposing the emergence of
_|i|he psi faculty into our everj'day lives, is a hypothesis suggesting further
|:ypes of experiment.
58 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
Explanation of Tables VIII and IX. Table VIII shows the total
scores in the five categories (o), ( ±1), ( ±2) for the “ counters ” experi-
ments at “ normal ” rate, with R.E. as Agent. Except in the case of the
(4-1) scores, expectations are evaluated as Nj^.
Table IX is a similar table for the “ rapid ” experiments with counters
with R.E. as Agent.
TABLE VIII
(Counters) (Normal Rate) (Agent ; R.E.)
E = expected number of hits ;
O = observed number of hits.
(-2)^ (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2)^
Trials 1510 1577 1644 1578 1512
E - 3020 315-4 328-8 321-19 302-4
0 - 3000 302-0 312-0 439-00 286-0
Dev. - - 2'0 - 13-4 -16-8 + 1 17-81 - 16-4
St. Dev. 15-54 15-88 16-22 15-89 15-55
It is seen from the above Table that there are no significant deviations
except on ( + i) scores.
TABLE IX
(Counters) (Rapid Rate) (Agent : R.E.)
( -2) (-1) (0) (+1) (+2)
Trials 789 829 868 831 794
E - 157-8 165-8 173-6 166-83 159-45
0 - 147-0 168-0 182-0 154-0 23600
Dev. - - 10-8 + 2-2 + 8-4 - 12-83 + 76-55
St. Dev. 11-23 11-52 11-78 11-53 11-27
In the above Table “ E ” for ( + 1) and ( +2) trials is evaluated by Stevens’
method. None of the deviations is significant except the ( +2) precognitive
deviation.
Experiments at Slow Rate of Calling. Between 6 June 1941 and
14 November 1941 we carried out experiments in which successive calls
were separated by an interval of just five seconds as timed by a stop-clock.
Counters were used in the first test of this kind but in subsequent tests
prepared random numbers were employed. On each occasion that this
slow rate was employed, B.S. grew very irritable, saying it was useless for
him to continue and that “ it was enough to drive him mad ”. He in-
variably failed to score significantly at the five seconds rate. Suggestions
that he would eventually succeed appeared to have no effect.
In the experiments of 24 September 1941 and 14 November 1941, the five
seconds rate tests were regularly alternated with experiments at “ normal
”
rate in batches of 50 calls (See Table X, TPS/TPN). The results of all
( + 1) scores at 5 seconds rate with R.E. as Agent are shown in Table X.
The numbers of ( + 2) and (
- 2) trials are not precisely equal owing to the
effects produced by P.’s losing step and to occasional gaps, as described.
C
lO.Ii
ip
Toti
Sloi
Noi
1
at"
erei
the;
ode
the
I
R,I
wit
Mt
liis
res
for
(
k;
fee
in
R.I
sh(
XI
Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 59
167]
TABLE X
(Counters or PRN) (Tel.) (Slow Rate) (Agent : R.E.)
(Results of all ( + i) scores at 5 seconds rate of calling with R.E. as Agent)
( + 1) ( + 1) E( + i) Value Type
Date Trials Hits Stevens of X
6. 6.41 192 40 38-38 < I Counters TPS
24. 9.41 192 38 37-54 < I (PRN) TPS/TPN
10. 10.41 192 43 3783 < I (PRN) TPS
14. 1 1 .41 192 36 37-96 < I (PRN) TPS/TPN
Totals 768 157 151-71 < I
None of the scores in the other four categories, (o), (±2), (-1), is
significant.
It is interesting to compare the ( + i) scores at “ slow ” rate with those
at “ normal ” rate in the “ alternated ” series (See List of Scores under
dates 24 September 1941 and 14 November 1941, pp. 107 and in).
We have
TABLE Xa
( + 1) (+1) E St.
Trials Hits (Stevens) Dev. X
Slow - - 384 74 75-50 7-84 < I
Normal - - 384 1 12 77-29 7-84 4-43
Thus in the alternated series for “ slow ” rate we have x= <1. while
at “ normal ” rate x = 4’43 with P<|-io~'‘ when the (
+ i) score is consid-
ered as the best of the five scores (o), (±1), (±2). In other words, in
these two experiments the results on (
+ i) scores at “ normal ” rate show
odds against chance of about 5,000 to one, whereas at the “ slow ” rate
the results are consistent with chance. No further comparison is required.
Experiments with Other Agents. Twelve other persons besides
R.E. have at various times endeavoured to act as Agent in conjunction
with B.S. (two for only a few calls). W’ith two of these, Mrs G.A. and
Mr J.Al., the results were quite as brilliant as those obtained with our
first Agent, R.E. Quite early on in the investigation B.S. tried to obtain
results with his wife as Agent, but was unsuccessful. None of the scores
was significant and the reader is referred to List of Scores, pp. 90, 93,
for the details.
On 21 February 1941, after R.E. had acted as Agent for four sheets,
K.M.G. took her place, while R.E. watched K.M.G. R.E. sat about three
feet away but in a position where she could certainly have seen the cards,
in the box if she had chosen to do so. It is quite possible therefore that
R.E. was the unconscious Agent on this occasion, though she reports that
she was watching K.M.G. the whole while and did not loqk at the cards.
But there is an interesting difference between the results scored with
K.M.G. as Agent and those previously obtained earlier in the sitting with
R.E. as Agent. This will be apparent from the following Tables, XI and
XiA..
6o S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part i
TABLE XI
(PRN) (C. Normal Rate) (Agent : R.E.)
Results on 21 February 1941 with R.E. as Agent
( -2) (-1) (0) (+1) (+2) Type
Trials 184 192 200 192 184 (TP)
E - 36-8 38-4 40 39-83 368
0 - 31 33 56 5 ° 28
Dev. - - - 5-8 -5-4 + 16 4 10-17 -8-8
St. Dev. 5 -43 5-54 5-66 5-54 5-43
X - 1-07 < I + 2-83 4 1-84 - 1-59
TABLE XIa
(PRN) (C. Normal Rate) (Agent : K.M.G. (?))
Results on 21 February 1941 with K.M.G. (?) as Agent
(-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) Type 1
Trials 184 192 200 192 184 (TP) i
E - 36-8 38-4 40 39-21 36-8
0 - 40 34 44 61 33
Dev. -
+ 3-2 -4-4 + 4-0 421-79 - 3-8
St. Dev. 5 -43 5-54 566 5-54 5-43
X < I < I < I 3-93 < I
A comparison of the two tables shows that while with R.E. as Agent (P)
scored just significantly on the actual card (O) (P~5 x -005 = -025), he
did not on this occasion obtain any significant success on (
+ 1) guesses.
When working with K.M.G. on the other hand, (P) scored no success on
the actual card but obtained a highly significant score on ( + 1) guesses
(P<5 X -oooi =-0005). It may be therefore that K.M.G. did have some
influence on the results even if R.E. was the unconscious Agent : though
perhaps one should hardly suggest conclusions on so limited a number of
guesses with a new Agent. K.M.G. acted as Agent again on 25 April
1941 when R.E. was absent. Three sheets only of (PRN) were completed,
but the results were not significant.
Results with Mrs G.A. as Agent. Mrs G.A., who is a friend of
K.M.G., visited the Studio on 16 May 1941 and 23 May 1941 and acted
as Agent on both occasions. On the first of these dates R.E. was absent,
but on the second she was present and advantage was taken of the fact that
Mrs G.A. had proved herself a good Agent to carry out a special experi-
ment in which two Agents worked together.
The results which B.S. obtained when working with Mrs G.A. appear
to be similar in character to those obtained with R.E. That is to say, at
the “ normal ” rate he scored significantly on (
+ i) guesses, but not on
any of the other categories.
On 16 May 1941, on 288 ( + i) trials B.S. scored 82 ( + i) hits as against
an expectation (by Stevens) of 57'79- This is equivalent to 3-56 x Standard
Deviation (P'~5 x -0004 = 002).
Special Experiment with Two Agents :
23 May 1941. During the
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 61
first part of this sitting, R.E. acted as Agent for 200 (PRN) calls. This
was R.E.’s first reappearance at the Studio since 18 April, her absence
having been necessitated by her mother’s illness and death. K.M.G.
was unavoidably absent on this date. Throughout these 200 calls. Dr
Wiesner acted as (EP) and S.G.S. as (EA) while Mrs G.A. sat by the side
of the box in a position from which she could not see the five cards. As
may be seen from Table I (p. 46) B.S.’s score on ( + 1) trials reached
4-03 X Standard Dev. After these results had been decoded and checked,
we commenced on the special experiment. R.E. and Mrs G.A. were each
handed four small cards on which were inscribed the following choices of
codes
R.E.
G L E P Z
P E Z G L
P E L G Z
G E L P Z
Mrs G.A.
L G P Z E
L Z P E G
Z G P L E
Z P G L E
These are arranged so that no letter in any one of R.E.’s four codes is
the same as the letter of the corresponding position in any one of Mrs
G.A.’s four codes. The two Agents were asked to select any three from
their four codes in any order, unknown both to S.G.S. and to Dr Wiesner.
B.S., who remained in the ante-room and knew nothing whatever of the
proposed special experiment and the arrangements being made in the
Studio, was merely told that for the next three sheets Mrs G.A. would be
the Agent. He was given no hint that while Mrs G.A. sat behind the screen
R.E. would be seated a few feet farther back with a second set of five
animal picture cards in front of her. The two Agents were asked to select
their codes privately in any order, and to change from one code to another
at the end of each sheet of 50 calls. The two sets of codes being mutually
exclusive, it followed that at each call the two Agents were looking at
different animal pictures. Mrs G.A. sat in front of the box in the usual
position, while R.E. sat at a small table some six feet behind her and so
that she also could see the random numbers as they appeared at the aper-
ture in the screen. S.G.S. acted as (EA) while Dr Wiesner sat with B.S.
in the ante-room acting as (EP).
The two Agents having each selected a code from the four available
on their cards, arranged their five picture-cards in the order indicated by
the code ; the cards being as usual laid face downwards on the floor of the
box or table. The experiment then proceeded in the ordinary way and the
results were decoded and checked at the end of the third sheet. At every
call the two Agents were competing in opposition. The result was that
R.E. failed absolutely to influence B.S., although she had succeeded
earlier in the afternoon when working alone as Agent. B.S. had been told
that Mrs G.A. was the Agent, and things happened just as if R.E. had
not been present.
A similar phenomenon is often observed when two persons sit in the
same room with a medium. If the medium is told at the beginning of a
successful sitting that visitor (A) is the sitter, and visitor (B) the note-taker,
the medium makes contact with (A) and not with (B), and the information
w'hich is forthcoming generally applies to the circumstances of (A) and
not to those of (B).
62 5. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part i
The difference betvreen the two sets of scores is very striking. Thus i
we find for ( + i) scores :
Agent Sheet No. 5a 5b 6a 6b 7a 7b Totals
Mrs G.A. - - 8 10 II 10 10 8 57
R-E. - - - 4 3 4 3 5 6 25 ^
There is, of course, no question with such scores as to who was the real
Agent in this experiment.
For Mrs G.A. we have x = 5‘45
For R.E. we have x =
It would be of interest to make obvious variations on the theme of two
Agents, but these must wait for favourable circumstances. The scores
made by the two Agents on the remaining categories ( ±2), (o), ( - i) are
of no interest. See List of Scores, p. 102.
Table XII. In Table XII are shown all the ( + i) results with Mrs G.A.
as Agent.
TABLE XII
(PRN) (Tel.) (Normal Rate) (Agent : Mrs G.A.)
(All precognitive ( + i) results with Mrs G.A. as Agent)
Av. ( + 1) ( + 1) E( + i) Values
Date Int. Trials Hits Stevens CC( + i) of X Type
16.5.41 301 288 82 57-79 53 3-56 TP
23 -
5 -
4 I 2-88 144 57 30-83 29 5-45 TP
(2 Agents)
Totals — 432 139 88-62 82 606
(For X =606 we have P = 5 x i 97 X io~® =9 00 X 0
1«o
Explanation of Table XIII :
“ Group i
” comprises all “ telepathy
”
experiments at “ normal ” rate with Agents R.E. and Mrs G.A., plus two
other scores—see ff.
As the results obtained with our third Agent, Mr J.Al., have distin-
guishing characteristics of their own, we propose to exclude them from
Group I and devote a special section to them (Group 3). In addition to
the three principal Agents (R.E., Mrs G.A., and Mr J.Al.) more or less
superficial tests were made with ten other persons with whom the results
were negative. These trials, except in the case of Mrs B.S., seldom
exceeded 150 calls, and it is quite possible that had we gone on with some
of these people significant results would have ultimately appeared. These
tests with other Agents were mostly carried out while R.E. was absent
owing to her mother’s illness (25 April—16 May 1941). The Agents with
whom B.S. failed will be collated in a single group (Group 2).
Group I comprises the totals for all “ telepathy ” at “ normal rate ” done
with the Agents R.E. and Mrs G.A. In addition, however, we have
included the highly significant scores obtained on 21 February 1941 when,
it will be remembered, K.M.G. acted as Agent with R.E. sitting in a
position from which she also could have seen the cards (c/. pp. 59-60). There
is also included (by inadvertence) one set of 50 calls during which Dr C. E.
M. Joad took R.E.’s place as Agent for one sheet only (see The Chronicle,
Sitting No. 26).
167] Experiments in Precogyiitive Telepathy 63
There seems no point in adding together the results of Groups i and
2, but the reader is at liberty to do this if he pleases : the significance of
the results will be scarcely affected. He may, if he wishes, add on all the
negative “ clairvoyance ” tests and the negative tests at “ slow rate
The resulting ( + 1) score will still be immensely significant.^ But there
seems no point in mixing together results which are obtained under
experimental conditions widely differing from one another. We have
taken together the work of R.E. and Mrs G.A. in Group i because the
results with these two Agents are similar in character and so form a group
which is distinct from Groups 2 and 3. If the experiments with J.Al.
(Group 3) were added the significance of the scoring would be greatly
increased.
TABLE XIII
Group I : all “ telepathy ” experiments with Agents R.E. and G.A., also
K.M.G. (?) and C.E.M.J. (50 calls)
(PRN or COUNTERS) (Tel.) (Normal Rate)
(-2) (-1) (0) (-HI) (-H2)
Trials - 5784 6037 6290 6039 5788
E 1156-8 1207-4 1258 I23451 1157-6
0 1134 1213 1288 1755 1094
Dev. -22-8 + 5-6 + 30 + 520-49 -63-6
St. Dev. 30-42 31-08 31-72 31-08 30-43
X - - < I < I < I + 16-7 - 2 09
It is seen that apart from the very large ( + 1) deviation none of the other
scores is significant.
TABLE XIV
Group 2 : Eight other (unsuccessful) Agents
(Tel.) (Normal Rate) ( + i) Scores
Av. (+1) ( + 1) E( + i) cc Value Type of
Date Agent Int. Trials Hits Stevens ( + 1 ) of X Experiment
14-2-41 MrsB.S. NT 48 10 10*42 4 \ (PRN) TP
7-3-41 » »
NT 192 40 38-83 41/ (PRN) TP
25.4.41 K.M.G. 4'0i 144 28 28-88 31 - 0*2 (PRN) TP
)> S.G.S. 2-80 144 30 28-83 23 + 0*2 (PRN) TP
») Miss H. 2-77 48 8 10*17 6 — (PRN) TP
2 -S- 4 I Dr W. 3-24 144 31 29-38 25 + 0-3 Counters TP
Mr B. 2-60 144 24 28-50 27 -0-9 »» >>
9-5-41 Mr Ch. NT 96 9 19-17 22 )
16.1.42 ))
2-66 96 21 19-33 21/
i '53
)) >>
16.1.42 Miss K. 2'54 96 21 19-96 18 +0-3 11 1 )
Totals — — 1152 222 233-47 218 <i
Note.—K.M.G. is included in this table as well as in Table XIII as
K.M.G.f?). One other person who acted as Agent for a few calls only is
excluded.
^ 13-6 X St. Dev.
64 5. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
Comments on Table XIV. An inspection of Table XIV shows that
neither individually nor collectively did these 8 Agents score any success
on ( + 1) guesses. Nor are any of the other categories significant. On
the other hand, the examination of these eight Agents was a superficial one.
With our access to such first-class Agents as R.E., Mrs G.A. and J.AL,
there was no need for us to waste time putting B.S. through long series of
tests with inferior Agents.
It may be asked “ Do the three good Agents possess any common
mental characteristic? ” We think that two of them (R.E. and J.Al.)
display great passivity of temperament. Both are very intelligent and at
the same time very quiet. B.S., on the other hand, is a nervous type,
assertive, and a good talker, and has the quick temperament associated with
artists. But whether this contrast in psychological type between Agent
and Percipient is important, we do not know. The contrast in type
between B.S. and Mrs G.A. is not so marked.
Experiments with Mr J.Al. (Group 3). At the end of December 1941,
R.E. took up a full-time war job which left her with little leisure for helping
with the experiments. During the early winter months of 1942 B.S.
considered that his Studio was too cold for us to continue with the experi-
ments in the evenings, especially as his health was not so good as usual.
We therefore abandoned the investigation until the beginning of May 1942.
K.M.G. visited B.S. on a single occasion during this period (16 January
1942) and conducted some experiments which have been included for the
sake of completeness. (See The Chronicle, sitting No. 30, and List of
Scores, p. 116.)
In the meantime S.G.S. got into touch with Mr J.Al., who had been
one of the principal Agents in the 1936 experiments. S.G.S. has known
J.Al. for a good many years and can vouch for his integrity. When working
with this Agent in 1936, B.S. scored about equally well on both ( + 1)
guesses and on (
- i) guesses.^ We had been puzzled by the fact that with
both R.E. and Mrs G.A. he had scored significant results on (
+ i) guesses
only. We were therefore interested to discover whether B.S. would
continue to score only (-Hi) successes with J.Al. or whether the (-1)
scores would now become significant as well.
Throughout the work with J.Al. as Agent (9 sittings), the Initial Letters
were used instead of the Animal Pictures, but before commencing the
experiments J.Al. was shown the five animal pictures and it was explained
to him that the letters were the initials of the five names of the animals. A
week before the first resumed sitting, S.G.S. told B.S. that a new Agent
was coming the following week, but he was not told that this was J.Al.
whom he had not seen since June 1936. To the best of S.G.S. ’s knowledge
B.S. is unaware of J.Al’s address. K.M.G. was absent from the first
three sittings (May 8, 15, 22) and her place was taken by R. G.
Medhurst, 5B.Sc. As already recorded, Medhurst himself carried out
the whole of the work of decoding and counting of hits on each of these
three dates.
It will be seen by reference to Table XV that significant( - i) postcognitive
results were in evidence at the first two sittings while the ( + i) precognitive
^ See Proc. xlvi, 186.
i6y] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 65
•scores were barely significant. This was a great surprise. However, at two
subsequent sittings on 12 and 26 August, the ( + 1) precognitive results
grew much stronger while significant (
- i) postcognitive effects were still
being produced. As is evident from Table XV, B.S. on the four sittings
taken together scored equally well on ( + i) and (
- i) trials.
TABLE XV
(PRN) (Tel.) (Normal Rate) (New Agent : J.x\l.)
(Initial Letters used in place of Animal Pictures)
Postcognitive Precognitive
Av. No. of (-1) E(-i) Value ( + 1) E( + i) Value
Date Int. Trials Hits Stevens of X Hits Stevens of X
8.5.42 2-72 192 52 36-79 2-74 46 36-17 1-77
1 5 -5 42 2-53 168 50 35-54 2-79 42 35-87 i*i8
12.8.42 2-52 168 51 33-50 3-38 56 34-08 4-23
26.8.42 2-28 192 54 38-50 2-90 59 38-71 3-66
Totals — 720 207 144-33 5-84 203 144-83 5-42
Comments on Table XV. (A) It is clear that B.S. has obtained highly
significant scores on both ( + 1) and (-1) guesses. If p is the (small)
chance of getting a deviation as high as 5-42 x St. Dev., it is easily seen
that the chance of getting at least two of the five scores (±1), (o), (±2)
with deviations as high as 5-42 x St. Dev., is approximately lop'^.
But for X = 5'42 /><6xio-'
Hence P<io x 36 x io~^^
= 3-6 X 10“^^
(B) In 1936 with J.Al. as Agent, B.S. working on Zener cards obtained
5-38% of “ true cognitions ” {i.e. successful hits not due to chance) on
(± i) guesses taken together. It can be shown from the results of Table
XV that in the present (1942) series with J.Al. he scored 10-59% of “ true
cognitions” on (±1) trials taken together. Surprisingly however this
difference is not significant, even though one percentage is almost double
the other. For discussion see Appendix A, p. 13 1.
(C) In the present series of experiments with J.Al. as Agent at “ normal”
rate there is, as in the 1936 series, plenty of evidence that the (
+ 1) and
the (
- i) effects tend to reinforce each other in the case of the multiply-
determined presentations {cf. Introduction, p. 31). This reinforcing
effect is entirely absent throughout the work with R.E. and Mrs G.A. as
Agent, as might perhaps be expected, since in the presence of these Agents
only ( -f i) cognitions were registered. For a full discussion of the statistical
problems involved and the experimental data, see Appendix B, p. 134 ff.
(PRN) Experiments at Rapid Rate. On 22 May 1942, 5 June 1942,
and 6 January 1943, we carried out “ rapid ” rate experiments using
prepared random numbers instead of counters. The modified procedure
on all three occasions was as follows ;
The screen which stood on the card-table was removed, and the five
66 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
cards which bore the numerals 1-5 were arranged in order on the top of
the box which was in its ordinary place on the table. The Agent, J.Al.,
sat in the usual position, and having shuffled the five “ Letter ” cards out
of sight of (EA) and (EP), laid them face downwards in a row inside the
box. (EP) sat with B.S. at his desk in the ante-room and the latter had
before him five “ Letter ” cards similar to those in front of the Agent.
(EA) stood facing J.Al. on the near side of the box, with his prepared lists 1
of random numbers. He called i —2
—3—25 at a rapid rate, and as he 1
called each serial number he touched with a pencil the number card on top
of the box corresponding to the figure on his prepared list. As J.Al.
saw the numeral touched with (EA)’s pencil, he instantly jerked up the
corresponding card inside the box and dropped it down into its place
again. As B.S. heard the serial number of the call, he instantly touched I
with a pencil one of the five letters L, E, G, P, Z, in front of him. (EP)
'
recorded the letter touched in the appropriate cell of the G column.
The experiment went without a hitch on all three occasions ;
there
were no gaps and B.S. was never out of step. It should be noted that as
J.Al. was new to the technique, on each of the first two occasions the real
experiment was preceded by a rehearsal in which (EA) and J.Al. took part
using the previous week’s lists of random numbers. During this try-out
S.G.S. sat by the box to verify that J.Al. was able to synchronise the
lifting of the cards with (EA)’s calls at the required rapid rate.
The results are recorded in Tables XVI and XVIa.
TABLE XVI
(PRN) (TL) (Rapid Rate) (Agent : J.Al.)
( + i) and (
- i) Scores
PoSTCOGNITIVE PrECOGNITIVE
Av. (-0 (-1) E(-i) Value (+i) ( + i ) E ( + i) Values
Date Int. Trials Hits Stevens of X Trials Hits Stevens of X Type
22.5.42 1-37 168 37 33-75 <i 168 39 34-42 <i TL
5.6.42 1-39 192 46 37-79 + 1-48 192 44 38-42 + i-oi TL
6.1.43 1-44 192 29 38-21 - 1-66 192 43 38-25 <i TL
Totals — 552 I 12 109-75 <i 552 126 111*09 I-S 9
TABLE XVIa
(PRN) (TL) (Rapid Rate) (Agent : J.Al.)
( + 2) and ( - 2) Scores
PoSTCOGNITIVE PrECOGNITIVE
Date
Av.
Int.
(-2)
Trials
(-2)
Hits
E(-2)
Stevens
Value
of X
+ 2)
Trials
( +2)
Hits
E(+2)
Stevens
Value
of X Type
22.5.42 1-37 161 45 31-91 2-57 161 50 32-52 3-44 TL
5.6.42 1-39 184 36 34-92 <i 184 57 37-35 3-62 TL
6.1.43 1-44 184 70 36-22 6-23 184 42 36-61 0-99 TL
Totals — 529 151 103-05 5-21 529 149 106-48 4-62
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 67
Comments on Tables XVI and XVIa. (A) The results of the three
(PRN) experiments at “ rapid ” rate with J.AI. as Agent appear to confirm
the discovery made in the counters experiments when R.E. was Agent
(see pp. 55-56). In the present series not only do the ( + i
)
precognitive hits
tend to be replaced by ( + 2) hits, but on two of the three occasions the
postcognitive (-1) hits appear to undergo a temporal shift and become
(
- 2) hits.
On the occasion of the first experiment (22 May 1942) these two effects
seem to proceed simultaneously, but in the second experiment (5 June
1942) it is only the precognitive hits that are affected and neither the
( - i) nor the ( -2) effects are significant. The third experiment (6 Jan-
uary 1943) was carried out after B.S. had had about 17 weeks’ rest and the
results are very remarkable. Apparently there were no precognitive effects
at all, but instead a violent switch over to ( - 2) postcognitive effects is
noted.
(B) An analysis of the sitting on 6 January 1943 from the standpoint
of multiple-determination reveals a very curious result. There are in all
23 cases of ( ± 2) multiple-determination—equivalent to 46 ( ± 2) trials.
On these 46 trials there are no less than 32 ( ±2) successes as compared
with an expectation of i8-8o. (This expectation is computed on the
mutually exclusive hypothesis, see Appendix B, p. 1341!).
Hence we have the following Table showing the successes (S) and
failures (F) in the expected (E) and observed (O) classes.
6 January 1943. (Agent : J.AI.) (Rapid Rate)
S. F. Totals ( ±2 M.D. trials)
O ----- 32 14 46
E - - - - - i8-8o 27-20 46
With Yates’s correction 14 508 or x=3'8o : a highly significant result
(P<io-‘).
It would seem that though on this occasion the precognitive ( + 2)
effect was so weak that it showed no direct indication of its presence, yet
when reinforced by the strong ( - 2) effect it was revealed by the large
proportion of multiply-determined cognitions.
The fact that B.S.’s^ff faculty can still flare up to 6-23 standard devia-
tions two years after the commencement of the experiments testifies to the
strength of his paranormal ability.
Mr L. A. Rozelaar, M.A. (Lecturer in French at Queen Mary College,
London University) who acted as (EA) on this occasion wrote :
“ I carried out every step of decoding and checking-up, with Mr S.G.
Soal (EP) checking every step of the process. The Agent did not speak
during the guessing nor did I notice any signs of his signalling by shuffling
of feet, coughing or in any other manner. I inspected and recorded the
code at the end of every 50 guesses.”
Mr Rozelaar took away with him a list of the totals in each of the
five categories (o), (ii), (in 2). He also compared each original scoring
sheet carefully with the corresponding duplicate and himself posted the
duplicates to Professor Broad.
68 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part j
Experiments with Non Random Series. Mr C. A. Mace, M.A., who
witnessed our experiments on 21 Dec., 1941, made the suggestion that it
would be of great interest to discover whether B.S. would succeed with a i I
series of number presentations chosen not at random but pre-arranged in n i;
some improbable order. 22
On the three dates 15 May 1942, 22 May 1942 and 12 August 1942, i
>-
it was arranged that among the (PRN) sheets should come a single column i
q
of 25 calls in which the first twelve numbers were all the same digit, ^
and the last thirteen the same (different) digit. B.S. was given no hint £;
that the “ doctored ” column differed in any way from the others. The
results of the first experiment of this kind are not so striking as those of
the other two.
TABLE XVII e:
t
Experiments with Non-random Series ;
(i)
15 May 1942 (Tel.) (Normal Rate) Sheet i column (b)
''
A 555555555555 3333333333333 L
G 233444332445 4132334543331
(ii)
22 May 1942 (Tel.) (Rapid Rate) Sheet i column (b)
A iiiiiiiiiiii 3333333333333
G 335111531113 1453334333552 b
(iii) I
12 August 1942 (Tel.) (Normal Rate) Sheet 2 column (a)
A 333333333333 iiiiiiiiiiiii i
G 343125333312 5352111511211
A=“ Actual Card ” Column.
^
G=“ Guess ” Column.
^
It will of course be understood that (P) does not actually guess the digit
'
itself but the corresponding animal (Initial Letter) card looked at by (A).
It is only when decoding has taken place that we get the animal cards
represented by figures.
In all three cases the Agent was J.Al. It will be seen that the total
numbers of “ direct ” hits are :
7 (first occasion)
12 (second occasion)
(13) third occasion)
In example (i) the Percipient does not seem to respond to the experi-
ment until the second half of the column.
We may examine the question statistically as follows ; the “ relevant
”
digits are 5 and 3 in example (i). We may count how many 5’s and 3’s
there are in the “ correct ” part of the column and how many in the
“ wrong ”. As 3 and 5 were guessed 12 times, we might expect 6 relevant
digits to be in the “ correct ” part and 6 in the “ wrong ” part. Thus
we have the following Table :
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 69
TABLE XVI I
A
Date
15 -5 42
22.5.42
12.8.42
Correct Part
7
12
13
Wrong Part
5
5
3
Total
12
17
16
Digits
(3, 5)
(i, 3)
(3. i)
Letters
(L, E)
(P. G)
(Z, P)
Observed
Number 32 13 45 Totals
Expected
Number 22-5 22-5 45 >»
With Yates’s correction x"==7'2o; x =:2'7 which is definitely significant
But there is another method of approach. We may ask ; When, as in
example (i), a 5 is presented a large number of times, does B.S. tend to
guess more of this digit than he does on ordinary occasions.? From the
totals given for each of the 5 digits in the G columns of the scoring sheet,
we may, on the assumption that B.S.’s guesses are fairly randomly mixed,
estimate the number of 5’s that would be expected to appear in a column
of 25 calls and similarly in the case of all the other “ relevant ” digits.
We thus obtain :
TABLE XVI IB
Relevant Digits Non-Relevant Total
Observed Number - - 32 43 '
75
Expected Number - - i4'873 60127 75
This gives =2319
;
x =4'8—with Yates’s correction, a highly significant
result.
An e.xamination of B.S.’s calls shows that the assumption of random
mixing is very well justified. There seems therefore to be a decided
tendency for B.S. to guess a given digit more frequently when that digit
is presented in excess in a set of 25 calls than when its frequency is
normal.
The results of the three “ non-random ” columns which had of set
purpose been mixed among the (PRN) columns are of course not included
in Tables XV and XVI which record the (PRN) experiments of these
dates.
Special Experiment of 26 August 1942 (“ Lift and Touch ” Ex-
periment). It was explained to B.S. before we began that we wished to
compare results obtained with the Agent J.Al.
{a) having sensation (sight) of the letter at each call, and
{b) the Agent having only memory content without sensation at each
call.
The experiment was carried out as follows ; During the {a) column of
each sheet, J.Al. lifted the cards and looked at them as usual, thus getting
to know their order ;
but during the succeeding {b) column, the Agent
merely touched the backs of the cards without lifting them or looking at
the faces. The order of the five cards in the box remained the same until
E
70 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
the end of the whole sheet, when the cards were as usual re-shulBed by
(A). We designate the two types of test as “ Lift ” and “ Touch ”
respectively.
There appears to be no significant difference between the two methods.
Apparently, so far as the limited data indicate, experiments with “ memory
content ” only seem to be as successful as those where there is “ sensation
content ” as well. The experiments were all at “ normal ” rate. Taking
(
±i) guesses together, the results for “ Lift ” and “ Touch ” are given
in Table XVIII. [For further experiments on these lines, cf. Sittings "to
and 40, p. 75 IT.]
TABLE XVIII
(TL) (Normal Rate) (Agent : J.Al.)
Type ( r I Trials) ( ± I Flits) E(±i)
(Stevens)
Value
of X
“ Lift
”
192 60 39-04 3 '79
“ Touch ”
192 53 38-17 2-69
Totals 384 113 77-21 4-56
Comments on Table XVIII. It is seen that both types yield significant
results. Using Fisher’s method for the comparison of means of small
samples we have for 24 trials
:
X
:£ = Mean Score for “ Lift ” = 7-500 with = 7
Mean Score for “ Touch ” = 6-625 «2 = 7
s (x- xy = 30-000
S (V-:r')2 = 27-875
^' = 57
-
875/H = 4-i
34
X-
t = -
/(«l + l)(«2 + l)
= 0-861
K1+K2 + 2
whence o-5>P>o-4
a value which is not significant.
Otherwise ; If we suspected that each “ Lift ” score was positively
correlated to the immediately following ” Touch ” score we might proceed
as follows ;
Sheet L ( ±1) Score T ( ± I ) Score II
E-(
1
*-1
I - - 20 15 + 5
2 - - 10 I I - I
3
- -
15 15 0
4 - -
15 12 + 3
Totals - - 60 53 + 7
Now
Whence Mean of {L -T)— + i -75 = a;
S{x'^) = 3S ;
‘S'(a;-:r)2 = 35 -7(i-75) = 22-75
^2 22-75
= 1-8958
And
12
167] Experimefits in Precognitive Telepathy 71
Hence t = = i-zi
n/i-8958
Whence with k = - i =3, -3>P> -2
which again is without significance.
Experiments with “ Associated Words ”
14 and 25 August 1941.
In these experiments, as already recorded,^ we used five white cards in
the centre of which were printed in large block capitals the five words
Mane, Trunk, Neck, Beak, and Stripes—words having obvious associa-
tions with the five animals Lion, Elephant, Giraffe, Pelican, and Zebra.
The same words were printed at the tops and bottoms of the cards in
smaller letters so that the Agent would recognise the card immediately
the end was raised from the table. The Percipient, B.S., was never shown
these cards, which S.G.S. took home with him at the end of each sitting.
On 14 and 25 August 1941 we regularly alternated the ordinary
“ picture cards ” with those bearing the “ associated words ” in batches
of 50 calls. Thus on 14 August during Sheets i, 3, 5, 7 the Agent (R.E.)
looked at pictures of animals, while on sheets 2, 4, 6, 8 she looked at the
associated words. (EA) would call out “ First Sheet—Pictures ” ;
“ Second Sheet—White Cards ” ;
etc., so that while B.S. knew that there
was some change, he was unaware of its nature. The experiment was
continued at the next sitting on 25 August. At B.S.’s own request on
these two occasions five cards bearing the pictures of the animals were
laid on the table in front of him and instead of B.S. himself writing down
his guess he merely touched one of the five pictures with a pencil and the
guess was recorded by S.G.S., acting as (EP). S.G.S. noted that B.S.
always touched the card from -2 to -4 of a second after the call. The delay
was never more than -4 of a second as timed with a stop-watch, but more
often it was about -2 of a second. B.S. used this method of touching a card
instead of writing his guess because he felt it involved less conscious effort.
We employed it on several subsequent occasions. The combined results
for these two Sittings are given in Table XIX.
TABLE XIX
(PRN) (Tel.) (Normal Rate) (Agent ; R.E.)
(Experiments with Animal Pictures alternated with Associated Words)
Type of ( + 1) ( + 1) E( + i) Value
Experiment Trials Hits Stevens of X
Pictures - -
336 94 68-21 3-52
Words - -
336 89 67-42 2-94
Totals - - 672 183 135-63 4-57
Comments on Table XIX. It is seen that on both “ Pictures ” and
“ Associated Words ” significant results were registered. The mean
scores are worked out for a set of 24.
iSee p. 45.
72
We have
5. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney
x = Mean Score for Pictures = 6-71
x= ,, ,, ,, Words =6-36
"1 = 14-1 = 13 "2 = 14-1 = 13
= [55-26 + 80-96] =5-24
Where = 55-26
[PARt
and
Also
S{x - x'Y = 80-96
x-x' =o-2S
Hence /=-aix
v^5 -24
14 X 14
28
= 0-404 with n = n^ + Wg = 26
Whence o-y>P>o-6
Hence the difference (-35) in mean scores is not significant.
We may also test if there is any significant difference in the variances
of the two scores. With the usual notation the two observed variances'
and ^2^ are given by
ESP'
ill
s{x-xy- 80-96
5,“ =
13
13
13
,
5
i:26
13
= 6-228 («i
= i3)
= 4-251 («2 = I3)
^=1-1513 (logio 6-228 -logio 4-251)
= 0-191
For = 13, «2 = 13 t6e 5% point for z is about -473.
Hence there is no significant difference in variance.
We might also consider the mean of the differences between each;
“ Picture ” (P) score and the “ Word ” (W) score that immediately followslj
Tn
Hit
E!|
it. Thus we should have :
TABLE XX
Sheets
I, 2
3 , 4
5 >
6
7 ,
8
9, 10
II, 12
13, 14
p w P-W= x
13 18 -5
15 1
1
+ 4
15 II + 4
1
1
1
1
0
16 10 + 6
14 14 0
10 14 -4
+ -7I
109 -
5 (-71) = 105-45
n
105-45.
2-5107
7x6
'
5 -71
/ = a; /— = —^= 0-448
/v" 1-584
73
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy
Hence with n = n -1=6
o-7>P>o-6
which agrees with the first method.
The experiment therefore succeeds equally well whether Pictures or
Associated Words are looked at by the Agent. We have also seen that it
succeeds when the Initial Letters of the animal names are used.^ We
think it very probable that any symbols which the Agent interpreted as
meaning Lion, Elephant, etc. would serve just as well.
Experiment with Zener Cards. We have carried out only one
experiment during the present series with Zener cards. This test was
carried out at the end of the highly successful “ Lift and Touch ” experi-
ment on 26 August 1942. The technique was the same, except that the
five Zener symbols were substituted for the Initial Letters of animals as
used in the “ Lift and Touch ” experiment. B.S. made his guess each
time by touching one of the five Zener cards laid on the table in front of
him, his guesses being recorded by S.G.S. Three sheets were completed
but none of the five scores (o), ( ±1), (±2) was significant.
The results are given below :
TABLE XXI
(-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) ( +2)
Trials - - 138 144 150 144 138
Hits - - 27 32 30 36 27
Expected - 27-6 288 30 28-8 27-6
X - < I < I 0 + 1-5 < I
The result was a failure, but coming as it did at the end of more than
eighteen months’ work with the animal symbols, we may conjecture that
a considerable re-education would be necessary before B.S. became
habituated to the use of the Zener symbols again.
Special Experiment with Counters (Influence of (P) on (EA)). Two
special experiments were carried out on 9 May 1941 and 7 August 1942,
in the absence of the ordinary Agent, in order to discover whether B.S.
could influence K.M.G.’s selection by touch of counters from a bowl.
It had been suggested by someone that the apparent precognitive successes
in the counters experiments {cf. p. 51 ff.) might in part be attributed
to some influence exerted by the mind of B.S. (the Percipient) on the
mind of K.M.G. (acting as (EA) ), which caused her to select as her next
choice the counter corresponding to the animal just recorded by B.S.
in his preceding guess. Such an hypothesis would of course suppose
telepathic rapport between B.S. and K.M.G. and the possession of clair-
voyance on the part of K.M.G., unless we assume that she sees normally
the counters she draws from the bowl in spite of conscious effort to the
contrary. It would require, further, that B.S. was aware of the order of
the five cards in the box either by telepathy from (A) or by clairvoyance.
' See p. S3, Table VI (p. 54), Table XV (p. 65), Table XVI and XVIa (p. 66).
74 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
The hypothesis seemed to us complicated and improbable in view of the
fact that the experiment succeeds when prepared random numbers are used
instead of counters ;
but we thought it worth while to see if any results
could be obtained.
The experiment of 9 May 1941 was conducted as follows : I
Dr Wiesner (EP) sat in the ante-room with B.S. who had in front of
him the five differently coloured counters. B.S. was also given a number
of scoring sheets whose “A” columns had been previously filled in by
S.G.S. with random digits 1-5. Dr Wiesner shuffled the five counters
so that they stood in a row in any order, the order being changed after the
completion of each sheet. B.S. touched the counter whose position in the
row corresponded to the random number on his sheet. He was checked by
Dr Wiesner. As he touched each counter, B.S. called out “ Right ”. On
hearing this signal, K.M.G. in the Studio immediately chose a counter
from the bowl while looking straight over the top of the screen as she did
on ordinary occasions in the counters experiments. K.M.G. let the
counters drop back into the bowl, the contents of which she stirred up at
frequent intervals as usual. S.G.S., seated on the other side of the screen
in the place normally occupied by (A), recorded the numbers standing
for the five colours as they appeared at the aperture. After four sheets
had been completed, the sheets of random numbers were decoded into
colours according to the code records kept by Dr Wiesner. The sheets
filled in by S.G.S. were similarly decoded and successes in the five
categories counted.
None of the scores was significant. The totals are given below.
TABLE XXII
( -2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2)
Trials - -
184 192 200 192 184
Hits - - 38 46 37 41 32
Expected - 36-8 38-4 40 38-4 36-8
X - < I -*-
1-4 < I < I < I
In the experiment on 7 August 1942, no lists of random numbers were
used. B.S. sat at his desk in the ante-room with five coloured counters in
front of him arranged in the order
W Y G R Bi
S.G.S. sat opposite B.S. and recorded the ordinal numbers from left to
right as (P) chose and touched the counters. K.M.G. sat in the Studio
at the card table with a friend, Mrs Wykeham-Martin. In front of
K.M.G. was a bowl containing 245 counters, there being equal numbers of
each of the five colours. B.S. touched the counters one by one with a
pencil at “ normal ” speed, and as he touched them called aloud the serial
numbers i, 2, 3. . . .25. On hearing the serial number K.M.G., who sat
throughout with her eyes closed, drew out a counter, letting it fall back
in the bowl. The corresponding number (in the order W.Y.G.R.B.) was
^The capitals denote the initals of the five colours.
A]]
tecc
At!
im
b
T
DIOS
proi
Tni
Hits
Exp
J
1
oft
I
STO
exp
rat
vah
pre
lol
too
Ey
p!c
in;
Lis
in
as;
by
or
sin
aiK
S:
Ml
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 75
recorded in the A column of a scoring sheet by Mrs Wykeham-Martin.
At the end of each column of 25 calls there was a pause of 30 seconds
—
I minute, during which K.M.G. thoroughly re-shuffled the counters in the
bowl. Then the work was resumed until 10 sheets were completed.
The sequence of 500 counters drawn by K.M.G. appears to satisfy
most of the tests of a random distribution, but B.S.’s selections do not
produce a random distribution. The totals for the five scores (o), (±1),
( ±2) are given in Table XXIII.
TABLE XXIII
(-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) ( +2)
Trials - - 460 480 500 480 460
Hits - 88 83 103 99 1 12
Expected 92 96 ICO 96 92
X - - - < I - I -48 < I < I + 2-33
The value 2-33 is not significant since the chance of getting at least one
of the scores with a as high as 2-33 is approximately
5 X •0198 = 0-099 {i.e., odds of nearly 10 : i)
From the above experiments we obtain no evidence that B.S. can
influence K.M.G.’s selection of counters from the bowl.
Two Additional Experiments at the Society’s Rooms, 31 Tavi-
;
STOCK Square, London, W.C. i. Although nobody who witnessed our
experiments suggested at any time that the conditions were not entirely
watertight, it was suggested by one critic at a later date that it might be of
,
value to hold a couple of additional sittings away from the Subject’s own
premises, to see whether this affected the results. B.S. was quite ready
to fall in with this suggestion and two sittings were held at the Society’s
rooms in April 1943. Both occasions yielded highly successful results.
By this time all calculations on the experiments to date had been com-
pleted, and the results of these two experiments are therefore not included
in any of the Tables in this Report. The scores however are given in the
Lists of Scores (sittings 39 and 40) and the procedure is described in detail
in The Chronicle, under dates 8 and 15 April 1943.
On each occasion B.S. was taken from his Studio to 31 Tavistock Square
by taxi, accompanied by S.G.S. and the Agent, J.Al. (K.M.G. being
away on war work). There they were met by independent persons invited
by S.G.S. to assist in the experiments. B.S. brought no personal friend
or Assistant with him.
Agent and Percipient sat in separate rooms, and the conditions were
similar to those in force at B.S.’s Studio.
Experiment on 8 April 1943. The experiments on this date were “ Lift
and Touch ” experiments (as already described on p. 69). Three persons
were present assisting with the experiments : Mr R. G. Medhurst, B.Sc.,
Mr D. Parsons, M.Sc., and Miss J. Fairbairn, B.Sc. All the decoding.
y6 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
checking, counting of hits, evaluating of results, and duplicating were done
by Mr Medhurst and Miss Fairbairn with S.G.S. merely looking on. Mr
Parsons assisted in checking the duplicates against original scoring sheets.
All sheets were signed by all four experimenters, and Medhurst posted the
duplicates to Professor Broad and took away with him a private record of
the scores in all three categories (
- i), (o), ( + i).
The results for ( + i) and ( - i) are given in Table XXIV.
TABLE XXIV
(PRN) (TL) (Normal Rate) Agent : J.Al.
Sheets la, 2a, 3a, 4a =“ Lift ” Sheets ib, 2b, 3b, 4b =“ Touch ”
Hits
(Both “ Lift
Category Trials and Touch ”)
( + 1) 192 67
(-1) 192 56
E(Stevens)
39-
58
40-
46
Dev. St. Dev
+ 27-42 5-542
15-54 5-542
X
4-94
2-80
It will be seen that significant scores were recorded on both ( + i) and
(
- i) trials, as is typical when B.S. works with the Agent J.Al. at “ normal
”
speed.
The ( + 1) combined scores for both “ Lift and Touch ” are given in
Table XXV. '
TABLE XXV
(±1) scores combined
Type ± Trials ± Hits E(Stevens) Dev. X
Lift
”
192 61 40-66 + 20-34 3-67
Touch ”
192 62 39-37 + 22-63 4-08
From Table XXV it appears that the combined ( i i) score for “ Touch”
(memory content only) is just higher than the score for “ Lift " (sensation
+ memory), but the difference is obviously without any significance. This
confirms the results obtained on 26 August 1942 {cf. pp. 69-71).
Experimefit on 15 April 1943. J.Al. was again Agent and Mr D. J. West
was invited to assist at the experiment. The experiment was a variation
of the “ Lift and Touch ” method used on 8 April. Before each sheet
was called, the Agent shuffled the five cards and laid them face upwards
on the floor of the box. He then gazed at the cards for about 15 seconds,
studying their order. The cards were then turned face downwards
without changing their order, and as each random number was shown at
the aperture in the screen by (EA), (A) merely touched the corresponding
card without lifting it to look at its face. Throughout the guessing there-
fore (A) had no sensation content of the faces of the cards, but memory
content only. (P) recorded his own guesses in pencil. All the sheets were
signed by both experimenters, but all the decoding, checking, counting of
hits, and duplicating were done by Mr. West alone with S.G.S. merely
77
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy
watching. Mr. West posted the duplicate sheets to Professor Broad and
also took away with him a private record of scores in the three categories
( + i), (o), ( - i). The results are given in Table XXVL
TABLE XXVI
(PRN) (TL) (Normal Rate) Agent : J.Al.
Method :
“ Gaze and Touch ”
Categor}^ Trials Hits E (Stevens) Dev. X
( + 1) 192 60 38583 +21-417 3-86
(-1) 192 53 38-333 -14-667 2-65
The above Table shows that highly significant scores are obtained by
the “ Gaze and Touch ” method.
The combined results for the two sittings held at the Society’s rooms on
8 and 15 April are given in Table XXVII.
TABLE XXVII
(PRN) (TL) (Normal Rate) Agent : J.Al.
Category Trials Hits E (Stevens) Dev. X
(-ti) 384 127 78-166 + 48-834 6-23
(-1) 384 109 78-791 + 30-209 3-85
(P)’s Claim to Pre-Judge Success and Failure. Can B.S. pre-judge
his scoring with any degree of success.? Owing to the rapid rate at which
all guessing was done, it would have been quite impracticable for B.S.
to have graded his guesses A, B, C, D according as he felt them to be
“ very good ”, “ good ”, “ indifferent ” or ‘
bad ”. Any attempt to
impose such a grading would certainly have ruined the experiments.
However, as he went along, B.S. from time to time volunteered comments
and marked a sequence of, say, five guesses as being probably better than
the rest. Sometimes he would mark a whole column of 24 as “ jolly
good ” ;
or “ this felt good ” ;
or “ this felt better than the rest ” etc.
Such marked groups occur on most dates between 24 January- 1941 and
14 August 1941. After the latter date he ceased to mark his guesses or
express verbal opinions about special groups. We have therefore counted
all such marked (
+ 1) guesses at “ normal ” rate which were registered
between 24 January 1941 and 14 August 1941 w'hether these occurred
during telepathy tests or clairvoyance tests, and irrespective of the person
acting as Agent {i.e. all Agents are included in the counts). In the absence
of proper grading of all guesses, the method can only be regarded as a
very rough one, but it affords no evidence that B.S. is able to pre-judge
successful hits.
The following contingency table for ( + 1
)
guesses shows totals of
successes on all
‘‘
marked ” guesses and corresponding totals for the
“ unmarked ” guesses on the same dates.
78 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
TABLE XXVIII
(S = successes F = failures)
S F Totals
Marked 100 296 396
Unmarked - 1331 3352 4683
Totals - - 1431 3648 5079
Whence (with Yates’s correction) x^ = i-66 i.e.
x = i’29—a result which
is without any significance.
Effect of (P)’s Health on His Scoring. Does B.S.’s health affect
his scoring.? As was mentioned on p. 34, B.S. seldom enjoys good health
and on account of this fact we made no systematic records of his state of
health at each sitting. On certain occasions however he did complain of
feeling exceptionally unwell and a special note was made at the time. The
following Table sums up the scanty information in our possession.
TABLE XXIX
Scoring in Relation to Health Etc.
(N.B.—By the term “ True Cognition ” is meant successful hits not
due to chance.)
Date
7. 2.41
B.S.’s Remarks
B.S. complained at start of a “ bad
hangover” from the previous night
when he had been to a party.
% of True Cognitions
8-85%
14- 3-41 Before commencing the experi-
ments B.S. complained of feeling
unwell and advised that if results
were not good after first tw'o sheets
we ought to stop the experiment.
i7'53°o
18. 4.41 B.S. reported that he didn’t feel
like getting good results as he felt
tired after the very bad “ blitz ” of
two days earlier
—“ but of course
one can’t say for sure.”
8-51%
(Normal rate)
10-96%
(Rapid rate)
23 - 541 Before the experiment B.S. re-
ported “ kidney trouble ” had been
bad during the past few days and
that he was still in pain.
1
5
'34% with Agent R.E.
24-48% with Agent G.A.
10. 10.41 B.S. was in a bad humour from the
start. He complained of feeling
exasperated after a heavy day’s
work.
Chance results.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 79
Date
7.11.41
B.S.’s Remarks
After the results were found to be
chance results B.S. told us that
this was the first day for some
time that he had been free from
pain.
% of True Cognitions
Chance results.
14 .
1
I .41 Before the experiment B.S. said
that he was suffering from severe
Iddney trouble and did not expect
to get good results as he was in pain
.
lo-ib'^o
3. 1.42 Before starting the experiment B.S.
said he had had an attack of duo-
denal trouble and that he would be
very surprised if he got any good
results that day.
Chance results
(but see p. 55 (E.) )
16. 1.42 B.S. in a bad humour and feeling
ill. Also complained of cold
weather.
Chance results, but the
Agents were new.
15 - 542 B.S. in a wrought-up state. Before
commencing experiment B.S., who
had been kept waiting owing to the
lateness of J.Al., the Agent, re-
marked “You know my nerves are
in a terrible state and doing this
sort of thing is absolute torture . . .
I am completely tired and run-
down and am going away for a day
or two.”
( + 1) 6-25%
(
- l) 12-20%
5- 6.42 B.S. in a very irritable state owing
to J.AL, the Agent, being half an
hour late again. Before checking
up B.S. said J.Al. ’s lateness had so
disturbed his mind that he felt sure
the results would be those due to
mere guessing.
Rapid Rate
( +2) 13-72%
(
- 2) Chance.
An inspection of the above remarks and scores certainly suggests that
on several occasions when B.S. has made complaints of ill-health, bad
nerves, etc., he has nevertheless won a very high score ;
and so far as
the limited data go we see no reason to connect failure with ill-health.
Although somewhat irrelevant, it may be of interest to record a personal
note made by K.M.G., acting as (EA), at the conclusion of the experiment
on 5 December 1941. She made and filed this note :
“ During today’s experiments, I had a feeling of ‘
How absurd this is.
There is nothing happening at all. There will be nil results I’m certain.’
Commenting on this feeling and intending my remarks to be merely con-
versationally descriptive of it, I remarked to R.E., acting as Agent, ‘
I’m
sure today will be an absolute blank.’ R.E. remarked ‘
Why do you say that?’
and I rejoined ‘
I just feel it in my bones ;
it feels as flat as flat can be.’
Results however were good (3’4i x St. Deviation).”
8o 5. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
The note indicates well enough the fact that even our most successful
days produced no “ atmosphere ” of attainment during the process of the
experiments, though naturally enough we experienced feelings of elation
on some occasions when particularly good or interesting results were
brought to light during the later analysis of the scoring sheets.
Discussion of the Experimental Methods Employed
We gave much thought and discussion throughout to the question of
rendering the conditions in which these experiments took place proof,
so far as was humanly possible, against even the possibility of fraud, on
the part of Percipient and experimenters alike. In this we were helped
by the nature of the psi function displayed by B.S., since any form of
fraud or collusion which would cover precognitive telepathic cognition
would obviously be extremely difficult, if not impossible.
As we have recorded, we invited at intervals independent persons to
come and witness the experiments. Appendix I gives the names of all
such persons who attended the sittings as Observers or otherwise assisted
us in the experiments. Invitations were issued to several more people,
but their war-work and difficulties of war-time travel prevented their
accepting. Only those who have had practical experience of organising
regular experiments and meetings will appreciate the difficulty of getting
five and six persons gathered together week after week, some travelling
considerable distances—a difficulty enormously increased in war-time.
S.G.S. was himself evacuated to Cambridge and had to travel to London
for the experiments. This made it impossible to hold them normally more
often than once a week at week-ends. On no occasion was a request to us
to attend and witness the experiments refused ;
indeed, we should have
more than welcomed it had some of the Observers found themselves able
to come more often. At a first visit the experiments were fully explained,
and Observers were given complete freedom to do what they pleased
and were asked to furnish us subsequently with their criticisms and
suggestions. Many of their observations are quoted in the following
pages, and no single unfavourable comment has been withheld.
(i) Signalling. All the Observers testified that they considered the
results were not due to any kind of signalling, direct or indirect, between
Agent and Percipient. In the first place the rapid and uniform rate of the
calling in itself precludes the successful use of such signals. Visual signals
are clearly impossible. Even if anyone were concealed in the Studio in
such a position that he could see the cards inside the box (which is not
considered possible by anyone who has seen the Studio), this person
would be unable to convey the information so acquired in time for it to
be of any use to B.S. If B.S. were receiving visual signals it would soon
be obvious to the person sitting next to him, for he would have to keep
looking up from his scoring sheet. Further, it is not the card being turned
up by (A) that would have to be signalled, but the card that is one card
ahead. B.S. cannot leave any gaps in his scoring column to be filled in
later, since (EP)—who is frequently the independent Observer—is watch-
ing him all the time. He must fill in cell No. ii immediately after call
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 81
No. II. Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor, S.P.R. Journal, has perhaps
said the last word on the impossibility of any visual aid reaching B.S. He
wrote ;
“ It is obvious that even if he had had a television screen before him
giving a plain view of each card as it was selected, he would have been no
better able to note the succeeding cards before they were selected.”
Dr B. P. Wiesner, consulting biologist, wrote :
“ It seems to me that the obvious explanations (signals) are fully excluded
both by the set-up and by the consistent manner in which the experiment
was performed.”
But what of auditory signals? The Agent sitting on the far side of the
screen could not (unless she were in collusion with (EA) )
signal by any
sound the tiext card, because she has no means of knowing what this card
will be. She is unable to see the sheets of random numbers from her side
of the screen. But suppose she is in collusion with (EA), it might be
asked : Is this credible when we remember that (EA) has been S.G.S.,
K.M.G., Aliss Jephson, Mrs Woollard, R. G. Medhurst, L. A. Rozelaar,
and D. J. West ;
and that (A) has been R.E., Airs G.A., and J.Al. ?
Again, all the OlDserv’ers who have sat next to (A) while she is turning up
the cards, testify most emphatically to the fact that she never speaks,
whispers, coughs, scrapes her feet, moves her chair, or acts in any way
which even the most suspicious could look at askance, or which could
convey any code information. PI. Chibbett, a most sceptical observer,
wrote :
“ Aliss E. kept silent during the whole of each experiment. There was
no whispering or muttering on her or anybody else’s part.”
Aliss Ina Jephson, a pioneer in card-cognition experiments and S.P.R.
Council member, wrote :
“ I saw no sign of a code between any of the people involved, heard no
unnecessary talking, coughing or whispering.”
Professor H. Habberley Price, Wykeham Professor of Logic in the
University of Oxford and ex-President of the S.P.R., wrote :
“ I should like to say that, so far as I can judge, the methods you have
adopted are perfectly watertight and fool-proof. It seems to me impossible
that the Percipient should obtain knowledge of the card that is being shown,
in any ‘
normal ’
manner; still less of the card which is going to be shown
a few seconds later.”
Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., member of the S.P.R. Council, wrote :
“ I am convinced that no exchange of signals, audible or visual, was
possible between Agent and Percipient, and that under the conditions which
prevailed any form of collusion was ruled out.”
Mr C. A. Alace, Reader in Psychology, University of London, wrote :
“ In general the precautions against fraud seemed to me to be very
thorough. My previous acquaintance with (EP) [S.G.S.] was sufficient to
82 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
dispel suspicion in that direction and (EA) [K.M.G.], previously a stranger
to me, seem.ed to be adequately guaranteed by (EP). (P) and (A) were in a
different position. In their case I could certainly observe nothing to suggest
the possibility of deceitful collusion, but everything here depends upon the
conditions of the test making collusion impossible. Visual and auditory
signals were, I think, adequately precluded, but to meet any suspicion of
other kinds of signal it would perhaps be advisable to conduct a series of
tests in another environment.” ^
\\n-iat other kind of signal Mr Mace had in mind besides visual and
auditory signals we do not know, but we should perhaps point out that a
“ timing code ” (i.e., a code conveyed by varying the interval between
calls, or similar device) is not possible, since (EA) who calls the serial
numbers is unaware of the order of the cards in the box. Neither can
(EA) give anything away by the inflections of her voice for the same
reason. As stated previously, (A) or (O), the only persons who know the
order of the cards, never speak at all ;
(EA), the only person who speaks,
does not know the order of the cards ;
and the attention of (O) is particu- :
larly put on guard to safeguard this very point. The supposition that
K.M.G. acting as (EA) is the signaller and that she is in collusion with
(A) or (P) is not credible, since the same highly significant scores achieved
with our chief Agent and K.M.G. are continued with Miss Jephson, Mr
Medhurst, Mrs Woollard, and Mr Rozelaar acting the part of (EA) and
with two other persons playing the part of (A). It is not plausible to
assume that outside visitors of the highest character would immediately
enter into collusion with someone they had met for the first time.
It should be added that with all the Observers cited above significant
precognitive results were obtained. They are none of them describing *
watertight conditions on occasions when nothing happened. They took I
part in the checking and decoding, and watched the evaluation of the
'
results. They all carried away with them impressions of high scoring. [
Persons like Miss Jephson, Mr Mace, Professor Price, Dr Wiesner, are all
'
sufficiently acquainted with Rhine’s work to know that the average score
for 25 calls is 5, and that when they witness long series of sevens, eights,
tens etc. with scarcely a single score below 5, they have witnessed some-
thing that is out of the ordinary. Mrs Woollard, a member of the S.P.R.,
who had assisted Mr Herbert, Research Officer, in his experiments with
Zener cards on many occasions, remarked that our scores were “ thrilling ” j
and quite different from any she had seen with Mr Herbert.
On some occasions (noted on each occasion in The Chronicle), Mr i
B.S.’s Assistant, Miss Jervaise, sat at the work-table (B)2 in the far
j
corner of the ante-room, continuing her normal photographic work ;
but j
she did not enter the Studio while the guessing was in progress and it was
impossible for her or anyone else in the ante-room to see the card-table.
But we have frequently obtained high significant results on occasions
when no-one was present on the premises except (EA), (EP), (A), (P),
and (O).
* To meet Mr Mace’s suggestion two additional experiments were subsequently
carried out at the rooms of the Society for Psychical Research. (See pp. 75-
77 )-
“ See Plan, Plate I.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 83
(2) Collusion. Let us suppose that everj'thing is pre-arranged between
B.S., the experimenters, and the Agent before the sitting. This pre-
arrangement would be upset by the fact that on many occasions it was
(O), the outside observer, who shuffled the five cards at the commencement
of each sheet of 50 calls. Moreover, on such occasions (O) sat by the side
of (A) and had the cards in view from the moment of shuffling till the
end of the series of, say, 150 calls. Highly significant results were obtained
under such conditions. Mr Chibbett wrote :
“ I shuffled the cards face downwards for each experiment in such a way
that neither S.G.S. nor Miss E. nor myself (being the only persons in the
room at the time) could have any knowledge of their code-order on the
table.”
Actually, during this shuffling (A) and (EA) moved away to a remote
part of the Studio and only returned when (O), who retained his seat at
the card-table, intimated that the cards were ready.
Miss Jephson wrote :
I
“I am satisfied that when I shuffled the cards at the beginning of each
series it was done out of sight of both S.G.S. and Miss E. (and of course
of Mr B.S. in the other room). I am quite satisfied that the cards could not
have been seen by anyone not standing immediately behind Miss E. I am also
satisfied that Miss E. turned up the correct card indicated by the printed
random-number held at the little opening by S.G.S. (acting as (EA) ). I
very carelessly did not notice whether foot-shuffling or signalling took place
under the table, but my impression is that this did not happen. I was
satisfied that the lay-out of the five cards, the decoding, the checking of
score-sheets was allowed thorough supervision and that I was allowed to re-
check any series I chose. When at the end of the experiments I had to leave
the Studio to go and turn on my car lights, S.G.S. gave me all the records of
that afternoon’s work to take with me, so that there should be no opportunity
of their being tampered with before they were posted to Dr Broad. I brought
the records back, copies were made, and the records posted by me at once.”
Mr Richmond wrote :
“ On the occasions when I was witness of the procedure at the experimen-
I
ters’ table, I myself shuffled the cards before each experiment out of sight
) of the experimenter who thus had no opportunity till the experiment was
i ended of knowing in what order they were placed before the Agent.”
In order to meet the possible suggestion that S.G.S., who prepared the
sheets of random numbers, might be in collusion with (P) and (A), it was
arranged that on three occasions these sheets should be compiled by
I
another person who posted them direct either to K.M.G. or to Mrs
'1
W’oollard.
'
For the experiment on 5 December 1941, at which Sir Ernest Bennett
'
was present, Mr Gerhard Wassermann, B.Sc., compiled eight sheets of
1: random digits (1-5) in his lodgings at Cambridge with no-one present
I but himself. He posted these sheets, which S.G.S. had no opportunity of
seeing, to K.M.G. at her home in London, 153 Rivermead Court, Hurling-
j
ham, S.W. 6. On each sheet G.W. had written in his own handwriting
j
“ Prepared by Gerhard W^assermann ”. K.M.G. brought the envelope
84 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
unopened to the sitting on 5 December, and immediately before the
experiments started it was opened by Sir Ernest Bennett in the Studio.
S.G.S., who was (EP), remained in the ante-room till the experiment was
finished.
For the experiment on 21 December 1941, at which Mr Mace was
present, eight sheets of random numbers were prepared by Mr C. U.
Blascheck, of Clare College, Cambridge, in his rooms and posted by him
to Mrs Woollard at 7 North Hill, Highgate, N. 6 on 3 December. Mrs
Woollard had instructions to receive this envelope (marked “ Not to be
opened till immediately before the experiment ”) and to keep it unopened
in safe custody. When it was known definitely that Mr Mace was coming
to see the experiment on 21 December, S.G.S. wrote to Mrs Woollard
instructing her to seal up the envelope in a larger one and post it to Mr
C. A. Mace at Vale Farm, Hobbesley, Woodbridge, Suffolk. Mr Mace
brought the envelope to the sitting unopened, and only opened it in the
Studio immediately before the experiment began. He handed the sheets
to K.M.G., who was acting as (EA), one at a time as required, keeping
charge of the others. On each sheet Mr Blascheck had written “ Prepared
by C. U. Blascheck ”.
For the sitting on 5 June 1942, Mr Wassermann again prepared in
Cambridge four sheets of random numbers from logarithmic tables, and
after sealing the envelope containing them with three large seals, posted it
to K.M.G. in London. K.M.G. brought the envelope unopened to the
sitting on 5 June and immediately before the experiment started she
opened it in the Studio in the presence of Mr J.Al. alone. On inspection
the seals showed no signs of tampering.
On each of these occasions the independent compiler signed a statement
made out in his own handwriting. We will merely quote that by G. D.
Wassermann written on 2 June 1942.
I hereby certify that on Saturday May 30th 1942 I prepared from
logarithmic tables four sheets of random numbers i to 5 at my lodgings 15
Victoria Park, Cambridge, nobody but myself being present. Subsequently
on the same day I sealed the envelope with three seals and posted it to Mrs
Goldney, 153 Rivermead Court, S.W. 6. Mr Soal could have had no
opportunity of seeing the sheets, and till the time of posting I had constant
control of the envelope. On each of the four sheets I had written ‘
Prepared
by (signature).’
Signed
(Gerhard Wassermann)
2.6.42.”
Unless of course it is assumed that Mr Wassermann and Mr Blascheck
were in collusion with S.G.S., it is difficult to see how on these three
occasions the latter could influence the results in any way. On all these
three occasions highly significant results were scored by B.S. (see Part 2,
List of Scores, under appropriate dates).
(3) Statistical. On his visit to the Studio on 21 December 1941, Mr
Mace asked this pertinent question :
“ How are you going to prove to a
sceptic that the results with high scores are not the most striking results
selected from a much larger quantity of data? ” In other words, would it
not have been possible for us to carry out an enormous number of real
1^;
01
cai
itif
u
an
56:
ta
k
i«i
pe
H
sir
tl;
sit
I'l
sir
fr(
i
'S
la
an
wi
jt
on
(tl
0
cc
It
al
R.
ai
ar
*'
t(
lo
i6y] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 85
(or fictitious) experiments, select from them the scores of highest signifi-
i cance, and say nothing about the remainder?
We at once told Mace that we had an adequate reply. It is as follows :
An inspection of Appendix I and List of Scores (Part 2) shows that
there are 13 sittings at each of which there was present an outside observer
:
well-known to the S.P.R. and at which the value of x (critical ratio) for at
least one of the five categories (o), (±1), (±2), exceeds 3. Now the
chance of getting one at least of the five scores with a deviation numerically
greater than 3 x Standard Deviation is nearly 5 x Hence (on an
average) to get 13 such deviations we should have required about 74 x 13 =
962 sittings at the majority of which observers known to the S.P.R. would
have had to be present. Let us however suppose that in reality we
had managed to crowd this number of sittings into years, always invit-
ing a person known to the S.P.R. When this Report appears, some 900
persons (or at any rate several hundred) would be asking why their sitting
was not mentioned in it.
But in point of fact this estimate of 962 sittings is a gross underestimation,
since the values of x obtained at the 13 sittings are usually much higher
than 3 and often rise to 4, 5, or even 6. A hundred thousand unrecorded
sittings in the z\ years would be a truer estimate, but it is clearly not worth
while pursuing the argument further. We state emphatically that every
single sitting and every single experiment has been recorded in this report
from beginning to end of our experiments to date.
In his comments, Mr Mace (who apparently was unaware of Mr Rich-
mond’s account of his two visits to the Studio in the Journal for June-July
1941), suggested the use of counters instead of random numbers (which
had already been done) and the substitution of other persons for (A), (EA),
and (EP)—variations which had also been previously effected. S.G.S.
wrote to Mr Mace pointing out that a good many of his suggestions had
in fact already been adopted and he replied ;
“ Dear Soal,
Thank you for writing so fully in reply to my observations. You
were, as I anticipated, in a position to meet fully nearly all, if not quite all
my points. I cannot find time just at present to write anything further
—
nor I imagine is it necessary. But some time we might meet and discuss
outstanding points of interest and possible variations of the experiments . .
.”
(the rest of letter irrelevant to matter in hand.)
Checking up of Results. We have already mentioned that none of the
Observers has made any adverse criticism of the methods of decoding and
counting of hits. It may perhaps not be out of place to quote the com-
ments of Observers who made written allusion to the question. We have
already given Miss Tephson’s remarks (p. 83) and the comments of Mr
Rozelaar (p. 67).
Sir Ernest Bennett wrote : “I took part personally with Mrs Goldney
and Mr Soal in the final checking-up of results and can testify to the
accuracy of the record.”
Mr Richmond wrote :
“ Mr Soal’s habitual exactitude in method is
well-known, but I may note for completeness that I observed all the pro-
cesses of checking-up results in detail on the record sheets, and saw no
loopholes for error.”
86 ‘l
S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
The only Observer who was unlucky enough to witness only negative
results was Dr H. G. Baynes, the well-known psycho-therapeutist. The
reason was possibly that we were on this occasion using “ Associated
Words ” for the first time, without giving B.S. any warning of a change
in thi" cards. Dr Baynes wrote :
“ I am not skilled at all in appraising the
apparatus and methods used in these experiments. But the method I
witnessed the other night is certainly proof against any interference other
than that of infernal powers.”
The Record Sheets. Professor Sidgwick, in his first Presidential address
to this Society, said “ We have done all that we can when the critic has
nothing left to allege except that the investigator is in the trick. But when
he has nothing else left to allege he will allege that So perhaps the last
resort of the sceptic will be to suggest that the record sheets were tampered
with by the experimenters themselves at the conclusion of the sittings.
Both experimenters would need to have been in collusion : it would not
have been possible for one to have tampered with the figures without the
connivance of the other, since both experimenters checked the results
together and affixed their signatures to each sheet, and the duplicates were
posted to Professor Broad immediately on leaving the Studio, in full sight
of both experimenters and the Agent, R.E.
We cannot deny that if it is assumed that both K.M.G. and S.G.S. were
bent on trickery, it would have been possible, on those occasions when no
Observer was present, to have made out false record sheets and duplicates
to agree with them. Many Observers were unable to stay long enough to
watch the lengthy business of re-checking and duplicating the scoring
sheets : they had trains to catch, other appointments, etc. But this was
not the fault of the experimenters, who expected and asked them to remain.
On the other hand, many Observers, such as Mr Chibbett, Miss Jephson,
Mr Medhurst, Sir Ernest Bennett, Mr. Rozelaar, Mr West, did stay on
to the end (see Chronicle), and on these occasions the original scoring sheets
were directly under their observation from the time of the first checking-up
to the final posting of the duplicates to Prof. Broad (posted on such occa-
sions by the Observer himself). An inspection of the List of Scores
(Part 2) on occasions when Observers were present, reveals long runs of
highly significant ( + i
)
scores in which scarcely a single column shows a
figure lower than 5 correct hits.
The experimenters themselves, however, were anxious to have a check
not on their honesty but on their accuracy. Each separate sheet of figures
had involved checking 240 pairs of figures for the five counts ( - 2) to
( + 2), making the duplicates was a boring business which might easily
have led to carelessness, and all this had had to be done at the end of a
long day’s work and before a late supper. Still further copying of the
totals had had to be done for the typing of the List of Scores. We therefore
distributed all the original scoring sheets and a carbon copy of the typed
List of Scores (Part 2) among the following persons : Mr Richmond, Miss
Jephson, Mr Redmayne, Mrs Woollard, Mr Medhurst, Mr Chibbett,
Mrs Johnstone, and Mr Rozelaar. The first five of these are members of
16
tliii
tk
rec
(±
act
alsi
(i,
ini:
wo
WT
pal
eac
ori
01
T1
So
OVi
till
ot!
vei
ret
eni
los
fin
Pn
am
Li:
hu
SC(
si:
Ici
OIJ
nc
as
3r
p'
’ Proc. 1 ,
12 .
i6y] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 87
this Society. At the same time Professor Broad was asked to post them
'
the corresponding duplicate record sheets in his possession. Each
recipient was asked to check up all scores in the five categories ( ±1)1 (o).
(±2) on the typewritten List of Scores against the results obtained by
I
actual recounting of the hits on the original scoring sheets. They were
! also asked to check the totals written in ink at the top of each column
^
against the results obtained by direct counting. This was
important since any tampering with the figures in the column itself
would have involved a corresponding alteration in these totals, which were
written at the actual time of the sitting in the presence of both the experi-
menters and any Observer present. The checker was also asked to com-
pare the original records with Professor Broad’s duplicates, and to sign
each of the typewritten Lists of Scores as being in agreement with the
original and duplicate. In cases where the checker himself had acted as the
Observer at any of the experiments, he was asked to examine his signature.
The originals were returned to S.G.S. together with the signed Lists of
Scores, and the duplicates were returned direct to Professor Broad.
In all the original scoring sheets so checked, covering the experiments
over the total period, less than a dozen isolated errors were found, none of
;
them being in the precognitive groups. They practically cancel each
;
other out and are of no significance whatsoever. There were similarly a
j
very few unimportant copying errors in the duplicate scoring sheets
I
returned to Professor Broad. The List of Scores, Part 2, as now published
I
includes the corrections made as the result of this independent re-checking.
There were six occasions on which the whole of the checking up and
entering of figures was carried out by the Observer himself, who never
lost control of the original scoring sheets from the instant when they were
first handed to him to the moment when he posted the duplicates to
I
Professor Broad {cf. The Chronicle, under dates 8, 15, 22 May 1942
!
and 6 January and 8 and 15 April 1943). Statistically these six occasions
alone would be sufficient to establish the paranormal faculty of B.S. {cf.
List of Scores for these dates).
On some occasions the Observers (including Mrs Woollard, Mr Med-
hurst, Mr West and Mr Rozelaar) copied out the totals from the original
scoring sheets and took them home for retention. This was an additional
safeguard.
This carries the description of experiments up to April 1943. When
leisure and other favourable circumstances permit, we hope to continue
our investigation of B.S.’s remarkable powers. Many questions are
necessarily left unanswered. For instance :
“ What happens at rates of calling which range between 80 and 120
seconds for a column of 25 calls? Is there a gradual falling off of significance
as we slow down the tempo, or does some other remarkable effect make its
appearance? ”
“ Could B.S. be trained to succeed at the 120 seconds tempo by the aid of
persistent suggestion carried out over a long period?
”
“ Would the experiment succeed if carried out at a great distance by
means of the telephone?
”
iCf. Plate II.
88 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
“ Does B.S. succeed only with Agents who possess a peculiar psycho-
logical make-up, and if so what are the distinguishing characteristics of the
successful Agent? ”
“ Do the onlookers or experimenters have any influence upon the results?”
“ Would the experiment he successful if the random digits were selected
mechanically and not by human agency?
”
“ Would B.S. continue to score precognitively in the counters experi-
ments if the counters were selected by sight (conscious choice) instead of by
touch alone?
”
B.S. has obtained successful precognitive results over a period of years.
“ Will his powers decline gradually, or cease suddenly as happened in the
case of the Subjects investigated by Rhine, Reiss, Pratt and other experi-
menters; or will he continue in possession of his remarkable powers?”
We do not know. Whatever the future may have in store we may
safely hazard the opinion that B.S. has made psychological history and
that his name will rank among those whose gifts have added to our know-
ledge of that “ final mystery—oneself ”.
Note.
—Students of the subject are referred to the private files of the
Society for Psychical Research for the duplicate scoring sheets which were
sent during the progress of the experiments to Professor Broad in Cambridge,
and for certain correspondence of interest in connection with the case
;
and to S. G. Soal for the originals of the scoring sheets.
BOOKS AND PAPERS RECOMMENDED FOR FURTHER STUDY
E.S.P. AFTER 6o Years (New York, H. Holt & Co. : 1940).
Extra Sensory Perception by J. B. Rhine. Faber & Faber (6s).
Report on Cases of Apparent Precognition by H. F. Saltmarsh.
Proc. : vol. 42, part 134.
Further Research in Extra Sensory Perception by G. N. M. Tyrrell.
Proc. : vol. 44, part 147.
Experiments on the Paranormal Cognition of Drawings by Whately
Carington. Proc. : vol. 46, part 162.
Fresh Light on Card Guessing—Some New Effects by S. G. Soal.
Proc. : vol 46, part 162.
PART TWO
LIST OF SCORES FOR ALL EXPERIMENTS ^
Note :
“ Clairvoyance ” scores are in heavy type. The significant scores
on each date are printed in square brackets, and it will be seen that, with
few exceptions, these come in the precognitive ( + 1) or ( + 2) columns.
(CC + i) =Cross-check for ( + i) guesses.
(PRN) = Prepared random numbers.
(TP) = Telepathy experiment using pictures.
(TL) =Telepathy experiment using initial letters.
(TA) = Telepathy experiment using associated words.
(CP) = Clairvoyance experiment using pictures.
^ The figures show the number of successful hits in each column of 25 calls.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 89
SITTING No. I. 24 January '41 (3 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” and “ Clairvoyance ” experiments, with prepared random
numbers governing selection of cards (c/. p. 49).
Present: B.S.=(P), S.G.S.=(EA), Miss R.E. =(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 4, 5 =(PRN) (TP) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 3, 6 =(PRN) (CP) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet ( -2) (-1) (0) (-1) ( +2) (CC + i)
la - - -
3 7 7 8 5 3
ib - - -
5 5 5 7 4 7
2a - - - 0 6 6 10 5 6
2b - - -
7 2 7 8 4 7
3a - - -
7 4 4 8 2 6
3b - - -
7 5 10 3 2 6
4a - - -
3 9 5 9 4 5
4b - - -
5 7 2 8 6 6
5a - - -
3 I 4 8 4 4
Sb - - -
5 4 4 9 6 9
6a - - -
5 4 3 5 4 3
6b - - -
3 7 4 5 5 7
Totals _
T - - - 31 41 40 [67] 38 47
C 22 20 21 21 13 22
SITTING No. 2. 31 January '41 {c. 3 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” and “ Clairvoyance ” experiments, with prepared random
numbers governing selection of cards {cf. p. 49).
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EA); Miss R.E. =(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3, 6=(PRN) (TP) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 4, 5 =(PRN) (CP) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) ( 42) (CC + i)
la - 6 4 12 4 6 5
ib - -
5 9 I I 9 7 3
2a - I 6 I I 2 6 4
2b -
5 7 8 2 4 4
3a - - 2 4 7 6 3 4
3b - -
5 6 8 5 3 6
4a - -
3 6 5 4 3 3
4b - - 6 3 6 6 2 8
5a - -
4 8 3 5 5 2
sb - - 6 4 6 5 2 S
6a - 2 3 8 2 4 7
6b - -
5 6 I I 0 2 5
Totals
T - -
31 45 [76] 30 35 38
C - - - 19 21 20 20 12 18
90 [part
iS. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney
SITTING No. 3. 7 February ’41 (c. 3 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” and “ Clairvoyance ” experiments, with prepared random
numbers governing selection of cards (cf. p. 49).
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EA); K.M.G. =(EP)
;
MrH. Chibbett=(0); Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 4=(PRN) (TP) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 3, 5 =(PRN) (CP) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet
la
ib
2a
2b
3a -
3b -
4a -
4b -
5a -
5_b
^
Totals
T -
C -
(-2) (-1)
2 3
2 2
5 4
3 7
4 8
4 5
3 4
1 2
2 9
5 7
(o)
8
9
8
9
6
5
4
5
6
2
( + 1)
9
6
6
8
6
4
3
7
5
4
(+2)
5
5
5
3
4
5
7
5
2
5
(CC + i)
6
3
6
4
8
5
5
5
7
7
16 22 [43] [39] 30 29
15 29 19 19 16 27
SITTING No. 4. 14 February '41 {4.15 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” and “ Clairvoyance ” experiments, with prepared random
numbers governing selection of cards {cf. p. 49).
Present ; B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EA); Mr. H. Chibbett =(0)
;
Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3, 4, 8 =(PRN) (TP) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 5, 6 =(PRN) (CP) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet No. 7 =(PRN) (TP) : Agent, Mrs B.S.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC +
la - -
4 4 3 I I 4 8
ib - -
3 6 5 9 7 2
2a - - 2 8 I 12 2 7
2b - -
5 4 5 10 5 6
3a - - -
5 3 6 10 7 7
3b - - -
5 6 3 10 5 5
4a - - - 6 7 6 10 2 4
4b - - -
3 7 4 6 4 9
5a - - -
4 3 4 4 6 6
Sb - - - 2 7 I 4 7 8
6a - -
5 7 6 7 8 2
6b - - - 6 3 2 5 6 I
7a - - -
5 6 3 5 3 I
7b - - -
3 7 5 5 3 3
8a - - -
4 4 4 6 5 5
8b - - -
3 3 3 4 7 8
Totals
T. R.E. - -
40 52 40 [88] 48 61
T. Mrs B.S. - 8 13 8 10 6 4
C. R.E. - -
17 20 13 20 27 17
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 91
SITTING No. 5. 21 February '41 (4 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
selection of cards.
Present: B.S.=(P).
Sheets 1-4, S.G.S.=(EA); R.E.=(A);
Sheets 5-8, S.G.S.-(EA); K.M.G. (?)i =(A) ;
Miss R.E. =(0).
N.B.—K.M.G. arrived during sheet 4a.
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3, 4=(PRN) (TP) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 5, 6, 7 8=(PRN) (TP) : Agent, K.M.G. (?)h
I
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC4
la - - -
3 4 7 5 4 4
ib - - -
3 2 7 5 2 4
2a - - -
4 5 5 7 4 6
2b - - -
5 6 10 6 2 8
3a - - -
4 5 1
1
8 5 I
3b - - -
4 4 7 8 3 4
4a - - - I 3 7 7 6 5
4b - - -
7 4 2 4 2 4
Totals - - - 31 33 [56] 50 28 36
5a - - -
3 5 8 8 4 7
5b - - -
5 4 7 7 5 3
6a - - -
4 2 5 8 2 9
6b - - -
5 8 7 6 5 6
7a - - - 8 6 4 7 2 2
7b - - - 0 5 4 7 5 4
8a - - - 6 2 3 13 6 3
8b - - -
9 2 6 5 4 5
Totals - - - 40 34 44 [61] 33 39
^ See pp. 59-60.
92 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 6. 28 February '41 (4.30 p.m.)
Telepathy ” and “ Clairvoyance ” experiments with prepared random
numbers governing selection of cards (cf. p. 49).
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EA); Mr Kenneth Richmond=(0) and
(EP); Miss R.E.=(A). K.M.G. arrived near the end of
sheet 5a, but took no active part in experiments.
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8=(PRN) (TP) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 4, 7 =(PRN) (CP) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
la - -
5 4 5 5 4 8
ib - - - 2 3 8 5 5 7
2a - - 6 5 8 10 6 6
2b - -
4 5 5 8 7 6
3a - - -
4 7 5 9 6 2
3b - - - 8 6 4 7 4 8
4a - - -
5 6 5 3 8 4
4b - - -
5 3 8 8 2 I
5a - - - 6 6 4 I I I 8
5b - - -
9 5 3 3 5 6
6a - -
4 5 5 I I 6 3
6b - - 6 4 6 10 5 5
7a - - -
5 4 6 5 s 8
7b - - - 6 3 6 2 5 4
8a - -
4 4 7 13 4 3
8b - -
4 4 6 7 2 6
Totals
T - - - 62 58 66 [99] 55 68
C - - 21 16 25 18 20 17
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 93
SITTING No. 7. 7 March ’41 (c. 4.30 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers, and with
counters drawn from a bag, governing selection of cards {cf
.
p. 51).
Present : B.S.=(P): S.G.S.=(EA) for (PRN) and Recorder for (Coun-
ters); K.M.G. =(EP) for (PRN) and (EA) for (Counters)
;
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton == ( 0) and (EP) ;
Miss R.E. and
Mrs B.S.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3
= (PRN) (TP) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 4, 5, 6 = (Counters) (TP) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 7, 8, 9, 10 = (PRN) (TP) : Agents Mrs B.S.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
la 6 8 8 I I 3 3
ib 2 5 5 9 6 5
2a 8 4 8 9 5 I
2b 4 8 6 8 4 8
3a - 2 2 5 8 7 I
3b - 8 8 5 7 4 7
Totals - 30 35 37 [52] 29 25
4a -
7 I 3 10 4 6
4b -
7 5 5 I I 4 7
5a -
5 5 4 10 4 4
5b -
3 4 8 *IO 3 7
6a 3 5 I 12 3 4
6b 6 4 4 6 6 7
Totals - 31 24 25 [59] 24 35
7a - 8 5 2 3 3 3
7b -
5 6 4 4 5 8
8a -
4 7 6 6 2 5
8b -
4 4 3 4 4 7
9a -
7 9 7 6 4 5
9b - 8 3 6 2 6 3
loa 3 5 7 10 4 5
lob 3 6 5 5 7 5
Totals - - 42 45 40 40 35 41
94 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 8. 14 March '41 (c. 5 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers, and with
counters drawn from bag, governing selection of cards (c/. p. 51).
Present : B.S.=(P); S.G.S.==(EA) for (PRN) and Recorder for (Coun-
ters); Miss I. Jephson=(0), and (EA) for (Counters); Mrs
Oliver Gatty=(EP); Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3 =(PRN) (TP) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 4, 5, 6=(Counters) (TP) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) ( +2) (CC + i)
la -
4 3 5 6 7 4
ib - 6 5 4 I I 5 4
2a -
7 4 3 7 5 4
2b -
7 5 2 I I 3 6
3a - -
4 6 4 6 8 3
3b - -
7 4 4 7 3 4
Totals - -
35 27 22 [48] 31 25
4a - -
4 4 7 7 7 2
4b - -
4 7 3 I I 2 3
5a - -
3 4 8 9 2 5
5b - -
5 4 6 7 2 4
6a -
5 4 6 9 I 5
6b - 8 6 7 7 6 6
Totals - - 29 29 37 [50] 20 25
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 95
SITTING No. g. 21 March '41 (5 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with counters drawn from bag and from bowl
' governing selection of cards, at “ normal ” rate and “ rapid ” rate {cf. p. 55).
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S. = Recorder for (Counters) ;
K.M.G. =;(EA)
;
Mr Kenneth Richmond =(0) and (EP); Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos.
Sheet Nos.
No. of
Sheet
la
ib
2a
2b
3a
3b
, I, 2, 3 = (Counters) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
4> 5 > 6, 7, 8, 9=(Counters) (TP) (Rapid Rate) : Agent, R.E.
(-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
3 3 3 It 3 4
I 3 7 12 4 4
3 4 7 14 I 6
538953
7 3 5 7 5 2
124825
Totals 20 18 34 [61] 20 24
(CC + i) (CC+2)
4a I 4 3 8 7 3 6
4b 2 5 5 6 6 6 6
5a 4 2 6 6 5 4 4
5b 2 6 7 0 4 4 4
6a 2 3 6 6 10 9 5
6b 4 6 3 4 12 7 4
7a 4 7 6 6 5 10 4
7b 2 3 6 2 9 6 3
8a 5 4 7 7 5 4 3
8b 6 5 8 4 6 3 3
9a 6 5 6 4 10 4 5
9b 6 4 3 4 5 4 3
Totals 44 54 66 57 [84] 64 50
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate - la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b
Seconds - 60 60 68 76 65 70
Rapid Rate - 4a 4b 5a 5 b 6a 6b 7a 7b 8a 8b 9a 9b
Seconds -
35 40 35 40 35 37 37 33 29 33 28 33
Note.—In sheets 7a and 7b there: were one or two gaps. We have
Sheet 7a :
( + 2) trials = 20 ; ( + 1) = 22 (o)=24 ;
( - 1) = 22
Sheet 7b :
( + 2) trials = 15 ; ( + i) = 18; (0) =21 ;
(-1) = 18
96 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 10. 28 March '41 (c. 5 p.m^
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with counters governing selection of cards.
Initial letters substituted for animal pictures. “ Normal ” rate and “ rapid
”
rate (c/. p. 53 ff.).
Present : B.S. =(P) ;
S.G.S. =Recorder for (Counters) ;
K.M.G. =(EA)
;
Mrs Kenneth Richmond =(EP) ;
Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3, 4 =(Counters) (TL) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 5, 6, 7, 8=(Counters) (TL) (Rapid Rate) ; Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet
la
ib
2a
2b
3a
3b
4a
4b
(-2)
2
2
2
3
3
8
7
4
(-1)
2
6
7
7
6
9
4
4
(o)
5
6
7
I
9
3
3
6
( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
648
727
8 7 5
784
842
659
752
8 I 3
Totals - 31 45 40 [57] 36 40
(CC + i) (CC+2)
5a 6 4 5 I 7 4 5
5b 5 5 4 5 6 3 6
6a 3 5 7 3 7 10 I
6b 8 5 7 4 8 4 2
7a 3 4 5 3 2 3 I
7b 4 5 4 3 I I 2 8
8a 4 0 2 9 4 5 2
8b 3 5 5 6 9 5 4
Totals 36 33 39 34 [54] 36 29
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate - la lb 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b
Seconds -
65 95 ? ? 72 70 ? 80
Rapid Rate - 5a 5 b 6a 6b 7a 7b 8a 8b
Seconds -
35 33 35 34 32 32 33 35
It was reported by (EP) that (P) got out of step after call No. 15 in sheet 7a.
In sheet 8a (P) left a gap at call No. 16 but did not get out of step.
For sheet 7a : (
- 2) trials = 13 ; (
- i) = 14; (o) = 14; ( + i) = 13
For sheet 8a : (
- 2) trials =22 ; (
- i) =23 ;
(o) =24; ( + i) =23
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 97
SITTING No. II. 18 April ’41 (5 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with counters governing selection of cards
Animal pictures and initial letters of animals used. “ Normal ” rate and
“ rapid ” rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S. =Recorder for (Counters) ;
K.M.G. =(EA)
;
Dr B. P. Wiesner=(EP) and (O) ;
Miss R. E. = (A).
Sheet Nos. i, 3 =(Counters) (TL) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet No. 2 =(Counters) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 ^(Counters) (TL) (Rapid Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
la - - -
3 4 I 6 5 6
ib - - -
4 4 7 6 3 5
2a - - - 2 I 5 10 7 5
2b - - -
5 4 3 4 6 7
3a - - - I 6 3 I 5 4
3b - - - 6 2 2 10 4 3
Totals - - - 21 21 21 [37] 30 30
(CC+2)
4a - - -
7 7 4 2 8 5
4b - - - 2 5 7 2 7 4
5a - - -
4 4 2 2 9 5
5b - - -
4 6 6 5 5 4
6a - - -
7 3 5 3 3 3
6b - - - 2 6 5 4 5 2
7a - - - 6 5 3 4 9 4
7b - - - 2 7 3 2 8 3
8a - - - 2 3 10 5 6 5
8b - - -
3 I 5 5 3 2
Totals - - -
39 47 50 34 [63] 37
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b
Seconds -
6s 75 65 65 66 65
Rapid Rate - 4a 4b 5a 5b 6a 6b 7a 7 b 8a 8b
Seconds - 34 30 32 33 35 33 33 35 36 34
Notes.—(EP) reported that in Sheet 3a (P) hesitated at call No. 20 and
was then out of step.
In sheet 5a (Rapid Rate) (P) got out of step at call No. 20.
In sheet 6a (Rapid Rate) T) recorded no guesses after call No. 18.
In sheet 4b (Rapid Rate) (P) left a blank space at call No. 10 but kept in
step.
After making allowances for gaps and the cancelling of trials that were
out of step, we have the following totals for trials :
(-2) (-1) (-0) ( + 1) (+2)
- 130 137 144 138 132
225 235 227 219
'
Sheets i -3
Sheets 4-8
98 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. IS. 25 April '41 (c. 5 ^.w.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
selection of animal picture cards. “ Normal ” rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); Miss Hocken (visitor) arrived at end of sheet 6,
and acted as Agent for sheet No. 7.
Sheets 1-3, K.M.G.=(A) and S.G.S. =(EA);
Sheets 4-6, S.G.S. =(A) and K.M.G. =(EA).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3 =(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, K.M.G.
Sheet Nos. 4, 5, 6 =(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, S.G.S.
Sheet No. 7 =(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, Miss Hocken.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-0 (0) ( + 1) ( + 2) (cc + i;
la - - 8 7 4 2 9 4
ib - -
7 4 6 4 4 5
2a - -
3 4 5 5 5 5
zh - -
7 3 4 7 7 6
3a - - - 2 7 8 6 3 10
3b - - -
7 5 2 4 3 I
Totals - - -
34 30 29 28 31 31
4a - - - 6 4 6 6 3 4
4b - - - 6 5 6 4 6 5
5a - - -
5 3 8 5 7 3
5 b - - -
3 7 5 7 3 3
6a - -
5 3 I 6 5 3
6b - -
5 3 5 2 3 5
Totals - - -
30 25 31 30 27 23
7a - - -
13 4 6 6 4 2
7 b - - “
5 6 5 2 6 4
Totals - - - 18 10 I I 8 10 6
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b 5a 5b 6a 6b 7a 7b
Seconds ? 70 ? ? 95 ? 70 65 75 65 63 65 not
timed
N.B.—The times missed were about the same rate as those recorded.
167]
Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 99
SITTING No. 13. 2 May ’41 (5.43 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with counters governing selection of animal
picture cards. “ Normal ” rate.
Present
:
B.S.=(P); S.G.S.; K.M.G.; DrB.P. Wiesner; MrH. A. Berens.
Sheets 1-3, Dr. Wiesner acted as Agent; Mr Berens as (EP);
S.G.S. as Recorder for (Counters) ;
K.M.G. as (EA).
Sheets 4-6, Mr Berens was Agent; Dr Wiesner was(EP);
S.G.S. Recorder of (Counters); K.M.G. =(EA).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3 =(Counters) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, Dr Wiesner.
Sheet Nos. 4, 5, 6=(Counters) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, Mr Berens.
No. of
Sheet (- 2) (- 1 ) ( 0) ( + 1 ) (+2) (CC + i)
la - 2 7 3 6 6 2
ib - 2 2 4 4 3 3
2a -
5 2 8 5 4 5
2b -
4 4 9 6 3 8
3 a - -
7 4 5 5 4 4
3 b - - 2 8 5 5 4 3
Totals - - 22 27 34 31 24 25
4a - -
3 4 7 7 4 2
4b - - 2 5 5 5 4 6
5 a - - 6 7 2 I 8 2
Sb - - 2 4 5 2 3 6
6a - 6 4 8 4 6 5
6b - -
3 3 2 5 7 6
Totals - - 22 27 29 24 32 27
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate - la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b 5a 5b 6a 6b
Seconds - - 90 8s 80 7S ? ? lo 70 63 58 58 55
(
lOO S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 14. g May ’41 {c. 5 p.m.)
Special Test—see pp. 73-74. Also “ telepathy ” experiments with counters
governing selection of animal picture cards. “ Normal ” rate.
Present : B.S.=(P); S.G.S.; K.M.G.; Dr B. P. Wiesner; Mr H.
Chibbett
Sheets i-•4 Special test. Influence of (P) on (EA).
Sheets 5 ;and 6 Mr Chibbett =(A)
;
DrWiesner=(EP): K.M.G.
= (EA); S.G.S. = Recorder for (Counters).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3, 4==Special Test. •
Sheet Nos. 5, 6 = (Counters) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, Mr.
Chibbett.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2)
la -
4 3 3 5 2
lb -
3 6 4 4 5
2a - 6 7 5 4 4
2b -
4 7 4 5 I
3a - -
3 5 3 2 2
3b - - 6 6 8 6 5
4a - -
5 4 4 9 8
4b - -
7 8 6 6 5
Totals - - 38 46 37 41 32
(CC + i)
5a - -
5 7 I 1 7 4
5b - -
4 7 I I 2 8 4
6a -
5 6 6 5 2 9
6b - -
4 6 4 I 7 5
Totals - - 18 26 22 9 24 22
N.B.—No times taken.
i6y] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy lOI
SITTING No. 15. 16 May ’41 (5 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
selection of animal picture cards. “ Normal ” rate.
.•
B.S.=(P); S.G.S=(EA); K.M.G.=(EP); Mrs G.A. =(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 =(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, Mrs G.A.
No. of
Sheet
la
ib
2a
2b
3a -
3b -
4a -
4b -
5a -
Sb -
6a
6b -
(-2) (-1) (o)
164
4 4 5
5 8 6
265
4 3 3
4 9 4
249
536
4 7 7
7 5 10
772
5 3 4
( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
643
8 7 5
5 4 4
1026
10 3 5
8 I 5
653
5 I
3
636
4 4 7
5 5 4
952
Totals - - - 50 65 65 [82] 44 53
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate - la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b 5a 5b 6a 6b
Seconds - - 70 75 75 70 66 75 ? ? 75 ? ? ?
N.B.—The times missed were about the same rate as those recorded.
G
102 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. i6. sj May ’41 (5 p.m)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
selection of animal picture cards; “ normal ” rate. Also special experiment
with two Agents working together (c/. p. 60).
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EA); Dr B. P. Wiesner =(EP)
;
Mrs G.A. and Miss R.E. both Agents.
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3, 4=PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 5, 6, 7
No. of
^(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate)
G.A. working together.
Agents, R.E. and
Sheet ( -2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
la - -
4 6 7 8 6 9
ib - - 6 S 7 8 I 10
2a - -
5 4 5 6 5 6
zb - -
4 4 3 8 6 7
3a - - -
5 3 4 7 5 3
3b - - -
3 4 4 7 5 5
4a - - -
3 6 4 I I 4 3
4b - - -
7 7 6 6 3 5
Totals - - -
37
‘
39 40 [61] 35 48
(
- 2) (- i) (0) ( + i) ( +2)
R.E. G.A. R.E. G.A. R.E,. G.A. R.E. G.A. R.E. G.A.
5a 5 I 6 5 I 8 4 8 9 6
5b 6 I 3 7 2 6 3 lO 6 5
6a 5 4 6 4 6 I 4 1
1
5 4
6b 5 4 6 4 7 4 3 10 2 4
7a 3 7 I 6 6 4 5 10 6 2
yb 2 5 6 8 I 6 6 8 4 3
Totals (26 22) (28 34) (23 29) (25 [57]) (32 24)
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b (Agent, R.E.)
Seconds 65 71 65 65 ? ? 64 70
Normal Rate 5a 5b 6a 6b 7a 7b (two Agents working together).
Seconds 75 70 65 65 70 70
Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 103
167]
SITTING No. 17. 6 June ’41 (3 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with counters governing selection of animal
picture cards and initial letter cards. At “ normal ”, “ rapid ”, and “ slow
”
rates {cf. p. 58).
'
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S. =Recorder for (Counters) ;
K.M.G. =(EA)
;
Professor H. H. Price =(0) and (EP); Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 3 =(Counters) (TP) (Normal Rate) ; Agent, R.E.
Sheet No. 2 = (Counters) (TL) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7 =(Counters) (TP) (Slow Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 8, 9, 10 = (Counters) (TP) (Rapid Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet ( -2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) ( + 2) (CC +
la - - - 2 2 6 8 7 7
ib - - - 8 3 4 9 I 7
2a - - -
3 3 6 5 4 2
2b - - -
5 3 2 8 5 3
3a - -
4 7 6 10 4 5
3b - - -
3 I 4 9 4 3
Totals - - -
25 19 28 [49] 25 27
4a - - - 8 5 2 8 3 4
4b - - -
7 7 2 4 6 6
Sa^ - - - 2 8 6 3 6 6
5b - - - 6 3 I 8 6 3
6a - - -
3 6 3 5 2 4
6b - - -
5 5 2 5 3 6
7a - - - 8 7 5 0 4 8
7b - - -
4 5 6 7 3 2
Totals - - -
43 46 27 40 33 39
(CC +
8a - - -
3 5 6 3 4 6
8b - - - 6 4 2 5 8 4
9a - - -
7 3 4 6 5 6
9b - - -
5 6 3 4 5 3
loa - - -
4 7 7 3 6 6
lob - - -
3 9 5 8 7 7
Totals - - - 28 34 27 29 35 33
Normal Rate
Seconds
Slow Rate
Rapid Rate -
Seconds
TIMES
Sheets
la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b
64 64 67 66 57 57
4a 4b 5a 5b 6a 6b 7a 7b
120 seconds for each column
8a 8b 9a 9b loa lob
40 36 36 34 35 33
S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
104
SITTING No. 18. 13 June '41 {4 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with counters governing selection of animal
picture cards and also “ associated word ” cards (see pp. 53-54). “ Normal ”
rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S. =Recorder for (Counters) ;
K.M.G. =(EA)
;
Dr H. G. Baynes =(0) and (EP); Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet No. i ^(Counters) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6=(Counters) (TA) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) ( +2) (CC +
la - 6 4 I 8 8 4
ib -
4 5 7 3 3 7
Totals - 10 9 8 I I I I I I
2a -
3 7 12 4 I 7
2b -
5 8 3 4 3 5
3a - 2 2 8 4 3 6
3b - 10 5 3 4 3 5
4a -
7 6 4 4 5 4
4b - 12 9 0 2 1 6
5a -
4 4 6 4 3 3
5b -
4 5 5 5 3 6
6a -
3 6 I 3 4 7
6b - 10 5 6 7 5 6
Totals - 60 57 48 41 31 55
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b 5a 5 b 6a (
Seconds - 80 65 62 ? 60 63 65 55 57 62 57
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 105
SITTING No. ig. 14 August ’41 (5.30 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
selection of animal picture cards and of “ associated word ” cards alter-
nately {cf. pp. 71-73). “ Normal ” rate.
Present : S.G.S.=(EP); K.M.G.=(EA); Miss R.E. =(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 3, 5, 7=(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 2, 4, 6, 8=(PRN) (TA) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) ( +2) (CC + i)
la -
7 8 5 8 3 10
ib -
5 8 5 5 5 6
3a -
3 3 7 7 5 4
3b - 6 5 2 8 3 I
5a -
4 8 7 7 3 3
,
5 b 3 4 2 8 4 I
7a -
5 4 6 8 5 3
7b -
4 8 5 3 3 8
Totals - - 37 48 39 [54] 31 36
2a -
5 6 4 6 4 2
2b -
5 4 I 12 2 5
4a - 6 3 5 6 I 5
4b -
3 I 7 5 I 6
6a -
7 5 3 3 8 5
6b - I 2 7 8 8 4
8a -
4 5 3 5 5 5
8b -
7 4 7 6 4 5
Totals - - 38 30 37 [51] 33 37
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b 5a 5b 6a 6b 7a 7b 8a 8b
Seconds - 72 65 56 57 55 54 57 60 56 57 54 55 55 56 57 56
io6 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 20. 2§ August '41 {5.30 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
selection of animal picture cards and “ associated word ” cards alternately
{cf. pp. 71-73). “ Normal ” rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EP); K.M.G. =(EA) ;
Miss Jervaise
(B.S.’s Lady-Assistant) = Checker ;
Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 3, 5 =(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 2, 4, 6 =(PRN) (TA) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (
- i) (0) ( + 1) ( + 2) (CC + i)
la -
4 4 5 I I 6 5
ib -
7 3 7 5 S 5
3a - 2 8 2 8 8 8
3b - 2 3 6 6 3 3
5a -
3 4 3 4 3 6
5b -
5 5 8 6 6 I
Totals -
23 27 31 [40] 31 28
2a -
5 6 5 7 4 4
2b -
7 6 3 3 3 6
4a -
7 2 5 7 5 8
4b -
4 2 5 7 4 9
6a -
4 5 5 10 5 3
6b -
3 7 I 4 10 3
Totals - 30 28 24 [38] 31 33
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b 5a 5 b 6a 6b
Seconds 60 60 60 61 60 57 cn o^ 0 58 56 o^ 0
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 107
SITTING No. SI. S4 September '41 (4.30 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
selection of animal picture cards. “Normal” rate and “slow” rate alter-
nately {cf. pp. 58-59).
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EP); K.M.G. and Mrs. Woollard =(EA)
;
Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 3, 5, 7=(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 2, 4, 6, 8 =(PRN) (TP) (Slow Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
la - -
3 7 5 7 2 7
ib - - -
4 5 4 8 7 6
3a - - -
3 5 3 9 3 5
3 t> - - -
3 6 I 6 8 4
5a - - -
5 3 7 5 2 3
5b - - -
S 8 8 8 2 4
7a - - - 2 4 4 6 I I 8
7b - - -
3 5 3 9 6 4
Totals - - - 28 43 35 [58] 41 41
2a _ _
5 5 6 4 3
2b - -
4 8 3 5 7
4a - - - 6 3 6 6 4
4b - - -
4 3 3 6 2
6a - -
4 5 10 5 I
6b - - 10 5 4 2 6
8a - - -
9 5 4 7 6
8b - - - 6 7 4 3 6
Totals - - -
48 41 40 38 35
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate - la ib 3a 3b 5a 5 b 7a 7b
Seconds - -
75 77 75 75 72 72 75 77
Slow Rate - - 2a 2b 4a 4b 6a 6b 8a 8b
Seconds _ 120 seconds per column
io 8 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 22. 10 October ’41 (5 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
selection of animal picture cards at both “normal” and “slow” rates.
Prerewt .•
B.S.=(P); S.G.S.-(EP); K.M.G.=(EA); Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3 =(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 4, 5, 6, y=(PRN) (TP) (Slow Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) (+1) (+2) (CC + i)
la - -
7 9 5 5 4 4
ib - -
4 2 9 5 2 4
2a - - 6 6 6 4 6 6
zb - -
7 7 5 3 3 5
3a - -
3 6 9 8 5 3
3b - -
7 6 4 4 3 4
Totals - • -
34 36 38 29 23 26
4a - -
5 5 3 5 7
4b - -
5 4 5 3 2
5a - -
3 3 5 7 2
5b - - 2 5 6 5 4
6a - -
5 3 4 7 6
6b - -
5 4 6 5 I
7a - -
3 5 6 6 2
7b - -
4 7 4 5 4
Totals - -
32 36 39 43 28
TIMES
Sheets
Noirnal Rate - la ib 2a zb 3a 3b
Seconds - 62 60 61 66 59 61
Slow Rate - 4a 4b 5a 5 b 6a 6b 7a 7b
120 seconds per column
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 109
SITTING No. 23. 24 October '41 (5 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” and “ Clairvoyance ” experiments alternated in sheets of
50 guesses {cf. p. 50 ff.), with prepared random numbers governing selection
of animal picture cards. “ Normal ” rate.
Present; B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EP); Mrs Woollard = (EA)
;
Dr C.E.M. Joad=(0); Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 3, 5, y=(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 2, 4, 6 =(PRN) (CP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
la - -
7 3 7 7 4 5
ib - -
9 3 0 10 5 6
3a - - 6 7 4 8 2 5
3b - - I 4 3 9 3 5
5a - - 8 5 4 7 I 6
sb - - 6 2 7 7 3 2
7a - -
7 6 I 3 4 4
7b - - 2 5 3 5 5 4
Totals - -
46 35 29 [56] 27 37
2a - _
4 2 6 2 2 5
2b - - 6 8 5 4 6 5
4a - -
4 6 5 6 4 4
4b - - 2 5 5 5 6 2
6a - -
4 6 4 7 4 6
6b - - 6 5 7 5 3 5
Totals - - 26 32 32 29 25 27
TIMES
Sheets
Telepathy - la ib 3a 3b 5a 5b 7a 7b
Seconds - 65 60 70 70 75 65 0 0
Clairvoyance - 2a 2b 4a 4b 6a 6b
Seconds - 65 65 70 65 75 70
no 5. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 24.. 7 November '41 (5 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” alternated with “ Clairvoyance ” experiments in sheets of
50 guesses {cf. p. 50 ff.)> with prepared random numbers governing selection
of animal picture cards. “ Normal ” rate.
Present : B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=:(EP); K.M.G.=(EA): Mrs Woollard = (0);
Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 3, 5 =(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 2, 4, 6 =(PRN) (CP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet ( -2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
la 5 I 4 5 8 6
ib 2 9 7 4 7 5
3a -
5 2 4 3 2 5
3b - 2 4 7 6 4 3
5a - 6 2 4 5 5 5
5 b - 6 4 3 7 3 5
Totals - 26 22 29 30 29 29
2a 7 6 5 4 5 I
2b 3 3 5 3 5 10
4a -
4 5 8 3 3 4
4b - 6 3 4 4 4 6
6a 6 3 4 5 4 1
6b -
5 7 4 I 3 8
Totals - - 31 27 30 20 24 30
TIMES
Sheets
Telepathy - - la ib 3a 3b 5a 5b
Seconds - - 60 63 62 63 62 59
Clairvoyance _ . . - 2a 2b 4a 4b 6a 6b
Seconds - - - » _ 60 61 61 63 60 60
Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy III
167]
SITTING No. 25. 14 November '41 (c. 5 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
selection of animal picture cards, at “ normal ” rate and “ slow ” rate alter-
nately {cf. pp. 58-59).
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EP); K.M.G. =(EA) ;
Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 3, 5, 7=(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 2, 4, 6, 8=(PRN) (TP) (Slow Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
la - -
5 3 7 6 3 6
ib - -
7 5 5 5 I 3
3a - -
4 5 3 7 6 4
3b - - 2 2 9 12 4 5
5a - -
7 3 4 7 5 3
5b - -
5 2 3 6 6 8
7a - -
5 8 7 4 4 6
7b - -
5 3 7 7 5 10
Totals - - 40 31 45 [54] 34 45
2a - -
4 5 2 4 9 2
2b - -
5 7 4 2 2 5
4a - -
7 5 5 5 3 5
4b - -
7 2 6 7 4 8
6a - -
4 5 4 4 2 8
6b - - 0 5 9 3 8 7
8a - -
7 3 5 6 5 3
8b - - -
5 3 9 5 4 8
Totals - -
39 35 44 36 37 46
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate - la ib 3a 3b 5a 5b 7a 7b
Seconds -
58 S8 61 53 62 60 59 55
Slow Rate - 2a 2b 4a 4b 6a 6b 8a 8b
Seconds 120 seconds per column
II2 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 26. 21 November '41 {§ p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” and “ clairvoyance ” experiments alternated in sheets of
50 guesses {cf. p. 50 ff.) with prepared random numbers governing selection
of animal picture cards. “ Normal ” rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EP); Mrs Woollard =(EA)
;
Dr C.E.M. Joad=(0); Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 5, 7=(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet No. 3 =(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, Dr C.E.M. Joad ^
Sheet Nos. 2, 4, 6=(PRN) (CP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
la - -
5 2 5 7 2 4
ib - -
3 9 3 6 6 5
5a - - - 2 6 5 8 4 2
5b - - -
3 5 8 10 4 6
7a - - -
4 6 7 4 2 6
7b - - -
4 6 3 5 7 4
Totals - - - 21 34 31 [40] 25 27
3 a^ - -
5 4 5 7 3 4
3 b^ - - -
3 6 4 8 I 4
Totals - - - 8 10 9 [15] 4 8
2a _
3 1 7 10 6 5
2b - - 6 7 3 4 3 3
4a - - -
3 7 1 7 4 4
4b - - -
5 5 6 4 2 2
6a - -
5 5 5 3 4 6
6b - -
3 5 9 8 7 6
Totals - - - 25 30 31 36 26 26
TIMES
Sheets
Telepathy - - la ib 3a 3b 5a 5b 7a 7b
Seconds - - 80 75 60 70 70 80 70 70
Clairvoyance - 2a 2b 4a 4b 6a 6b
Seconds - - 80 70 70 75 65 70
' Just before sheet 3 began, Dr Joad went into the studio and, unknown to (P)
and (EP) in the ante-room, asked R.E. (A) to leave her seat while he himself sat
in it, reshuffled the cards, and acted as Agent during this sheet. R.E. later reported
that she had moved out of sight of the cards while Dr Joad acted as Agent.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 113
SITTING No. 27. 5 December '41 (5 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” alternated with “ clairvoyance ” experiments in sheets of 50
guesses {cf. p. 50 ff.), with prepared random numbers governing selection
of animal picture cards. “ Normal ” rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EP); K.M.G.=(EA); Sir Ernest Bennett,
= ( 0); Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 3, 5, 7=(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 2, 4, 6, 8 =(PRN) (CP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet ( -2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) ( +2) (CC + i)
la - - 6 5 5 8 4 7
ib - - I 5 9 8 5 5
3a - - I 6 2 I I 7 4
3b - -
5 7 5 9 6 3
5a - -
5 6 5 8 7 7
5b - - 2 4 4 7 7 3
7a - - 6 5 5 4 0 4
7b - - 8 3 2 4 4 3
Totals - -
34 41 37 [59] 40 36
2a - _ 8 8 8 4 4 8
2b - -
3 5 6 6 4 9
4a - - 2 6 8 7 6 3
4b - -
4 5 7 6 6 5
6a - -
7 7 6 4 3 7
6b - - 2 5 8 7 3 5
8a - - 6 6 8 4 4 3
8b - - 6 6 7 4 3 6
Totals - -
38 48 [58] 42 33 46
TIMES
Sheets
Telepathy - la ib 3a 3b 5a 5b 7a 7b
Seconds -
53 60 60 61 52 52 55 55
Clairvoyance - 2a 2b 4a 4b 6a 6b 8a 8b
Seconds -
53 60 55 56 51 60 55 52
5. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
114
SITTING No. 28. 21 December ’41 {12.30 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments alternated with “ clairvoyance ” experiments in
sheets of 50 guesses {cf. p. 50 ff.), with prepared random numbers governing
selection of animal picture cards. “ Normal ” rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EP); K.M.G. =(EA) ;
Mr C. A. Mace =
(O); Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 3, 5, 7 =(PRN) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Sheet Nos. 2, 4, 6 =(PRN) (CP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (
-
1 ) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC + i)
la - - 8 4 3 7 5 6
ib - - 2 5 4 9 5 2
3a - - 6 5 4 7 4 7
3b - - 6 5 3 7 3 8
5a - -
4 9 3 9 2 5
5b - -
5 9 4 7 5 3
7a - -
7 0 4 6 3 4
7b - - 6 4 9 6 2 3
Totals - -
44 41 34 00
29 38
2a - - 8 5 5 3 5 6
2b - -
5 2 7 6 3 5
4a - -
4 2 4 7 4 3
4b - -
5 6 6 4 I 2
6a - - 6 3 7 7 5 2
6b - -
4 4 4 6 6 7
Totals - -
32 22 33 33 24 25
TIMES
Sheets
Telepathy - la ib 3a 3b 5a 5 b 7a 7b
Seconds -
50 50 50 ?
50 51 55 55
Clairvoyance - 2a 2b 4a 4b 6a 6b
Seconds 49 48 50 49 51 50
Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy ”5
167]
SITTING No. sg. 3 January ’42 (5 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with counters governing selection of animal
picture cards. Suggestion given to score ( + 1) hits for some sheets and
direct hits for others {cf. p. 55)
“ Normal ”
rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S. =Recorder for (Counters) ;
K.M.G. =(EA)
;
Miss R.E.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 5, 6=(Counters) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Suggestion given to score ( + i) hits.
Sheet Nos. 3, 4, 7, 8=(Counters) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, R.E.
Suggestion given to score (0) hits (direct hits).
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) ( +2) (CC + i)
la - -
3 4 8 5 5 3
ib - -
3 6 7 7 5 7
2a - - I 6 4 8 7 I I
2b - -
4 7 4 8 7 6
5a - - 2 7 4 2 6 3
5b - - 8 4 I 3 3 I
6a - -
5 5 3 5 5 4
6b - -
7 4 3 6 6 4
Totals - -
33 43 34 44 44 39
3a - -
4 6 5 4 5 5
3b - -
3 5 3 4 4 5
4a - -
5 4 4 4 8 4
4b - -
5 7 3 4 I 3
7a - -
3 4 5 2 4 7
7b - - 6 3 6 5 8 5
8a - -
7 4 7 4 7 9
8b - -
7 4 4 3 8 3
Totals - -
40 37 37 30 45 41
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate - la ib 2a 2b 5a 5b 6a 6b
Seconds -
47 47 50 47 48 46 48 52
Normal Rate - 3a 3b 4a 4b 7a 7b 8a 8b
Seconds -
52 52 50 56 50 54 54 60
ii6 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 30. 16 January ’42 {y.30 p.tn.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with counters governing selection of animal
picture cards. “ Normal ” rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); K.M.G. =(EA) ;
Dr Wiesner = Recorder for (Coun-
ters) and (EP); Mr H. Chibbett and Miss Kennedy = (A) and
(EP).
Note.—S.G.S. not present. These experiments were not intended to be
part of the ordinary series. K.M.G. called in at the Studio with friends
and a few experiments were tried. They are included for sake of com-
pleteness in order that no experiment, from first to last, should be left
unrecorded in this Report.
Sheet Nos. i, 2= (Counters) (TP) (Normal Rate) : Agent, Mr Chibbett.
Sheet Nos. 3, 4=(Counters) (TP) (Normal Rate): Miss Kennedy.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) (+1) ( + 2) (CC + i)
la -
7 7 4 5 2 3
ib - 2 4 3 7 6 3
2a - 6 3 6 5 5 5
2b -
4 4 5 4 6 9
Totals -
19 18 18 21 19 20
3a -
3 5 4 6 3 5
3b -
4 7 7 5 4 5
4a -
5 4 6 4 6 2
4b - 6 4 4 6 3 6
Totals - - 18 20 21 21 16 18
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b
Seconds 63 66 66 60 65 60 60 59
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 117
SITTING No. 31. 8 May ’42 {7.10 p.m.)
(Experiments resumed after a gap of four months)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
the selection of initial letter cards {cf. pp. 64-65) “ Normal ” rate and “ slow
”
rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.' = (EP) ;
Mr R. G. Medhurst =(EA)
;
Mr J.A1 .=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3, 4=(PRN) (TL) (Normal Rate) : Agent, J.Al.
Sheet Nos. 5, 6 =TRN) (TL) (Slow Rate) Agent, J.Al.
No. of
Sheet ( -2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+:
la - - - - 6 2 4 6 3
ib - - - - 4 6 4 4 2
2a - - - - 3 9 7 8 7
2b - - - - 5 9 9 7 4
3a - - - - - 4 8 0 4 4
3b - - - - - 8 7 0 7 5
4a - - - - - 6 4 4 6 7
4b - - - - - 4 7 4 4 5
Totals - - - - - 40 [52] 32 46 37
5a - - - - - 7 3 7 4 4
Sb - - - - - 4 6 8 5 3
6a - - - 2 I
4 6 7
Totals - - - - - 13 10 19 15 14
Note.
—After call No. 20 in Sheet 6a, B.S. threw down his pencil saying
it was waste of time for him to continue guessing at this (5 seconds) rate.
He had been growing more and more irritated.
Normal Rate
TIMES
Sheets
la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b
Seconds -
65 65 65 65 68 65 N.T. N.T,
Slow Rate - 5a 5 b
Seconds - 120 seconds per column
H
ii8 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 32. 13 May '42 {7.15 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers and also a
non-random sequence of numbers governing selection of initial letter
cards (cf. p. 68) “ Normal ” rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EP); Mr R. G. Medhurst = (EA) ;
Mr
J.A1 .=(A).
Sheet Nos. la, 2, 3, 4=(PRN) (TL) (Normal Rate) : Agent, J.Al.
Sheet No. ib =(TL) (Normal Rate) : Agent, J.Al. A non-
random sequence of presentations consisting
of 12 digits (5) followed by 13 digits (3).
No. of
Sheet
la - - -
2a -
2b -
3a - - -
3 b - - -
4a - - -
4b - - -
(-2) (-1)
- 5 6
- 3 9
6 II
- 6 8
- 5 6
- 5 6
- 6 4
(o) ( + 1) (+2)
5 4 3
693
988
6 6 5
•
6 6 6
3 4 7
3 5 9
Totals - 36 [50] 38 42 41
ib
Normal Rate
TIMES
Sheets
I a ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b
Seconds 62 62 59 60 61 60 61
16?] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 119
SITTING No. 33. 22 May ’42 {7.30 p.ni.)
Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers and also a
non-random sequence of numbers governing selection of initial letter cards.
“ Rapid ” rate {cf. p. 65 ff.).
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EP); Mr R. G. Medhurst =(EA) ; Mr
J.A1 .=(A).
Sheet Nos. la, 2, 3, 4 = (PRN) (TL) (Rapid Rate) : Agent, J.Al.
Sheet No. ib A non-
random sequence: of presentations consist-
No. of
Sheet (-2)
mg of 12 digits
(3)
—
cf.p. 68 .
(-1) (0)
(i) followed
( + 1)
by 13
( +2)
digits
(CC+ 2)
la - 6 6 7 2 6 3
2a -
5 5 2 5 6 7
2b - 8 6 3 7 10 4
3a -
7 5 4 4 4 3
3b - -
7 7 5 7 I I 8
4a - -
7 3 3 8 7 3
4b - -
5 5 5 6 6 I
Totals - - - [45] 37 29 39 [50] 29
ib -
13 13 12 13 12
Rapid Rate -
Seconds
TIMES
Sheets
ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b
36 37 35 36 34 31 28 26
120 5. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 34. 5 June ’42 {7-25 P-m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
selection of initial letter cards. “ Rapid ” rate (c/. p. 65 ff.).
Prerent; B.S.=(P); S.G.S. =(EP) ;
K.M.G.=(EA); R.E. -Checker;
Mr J.A1 .=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3 > 4 = (PRN) (TL) (Rapid Rate) : Agent, J.Al.
No. of
Sheet
la
ib
2a
2b
3a
3b
4a
4b
Totals
(-2)
9
8
I
3
5
4
3
3
36
(-1)
6
5
5
6
5
7
7
5
46
(o)
2
4
5
8
4
7
3
7
40
( + 1)
5
5
5
3
3
7
7
9
44
(+2) (CC+2)
1
1
5
7
7
7
7
7
[57]
5
7
4
6
2
3
5
5
37
TIMES
Sheets
I ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b
Rapid Rate
Seconds 36 32 34 38 33 32 32 30
16?] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy I2I
SITTING No. 55. 7 August '4.2 {6 p.m.)
Special test designed to show whether (P) influences (EA) in the selection
of counters (in the (Counters) experiments). (C/. pp. 73-74.)
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S— (EP); K.M.G. = Selector of counters;
Mrs Wykeham-Martin =Recorder of counters.
Sheet Nos. i-io=Special Test.
No. of
Sheet
la
ib -
2a
2b
3a -
3b -
4a -
4b -
Sa -
5b -
6a
6b -
7a -
7b -
8a -
8b -
9a -
9b -
loa
lob
Totals - 88 83 103 99 1 12
122 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 36. 12 August ’42 {6.13 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers and also a
non-random sequence of numbers governing selection of initial letter cards.
(Cf. p. 68) “ Normal ” rate.
Present : B.S.={P); S.G.S.=(EP); K.M.G. =(EA) ;
MrJ.Al.=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2b, 3, 4=(PRN) (TL) (Normal Rate) : Agent, J.Al.
Sheet No. 2a =(TL) (Normal Rate) : Agent, J.Al. A non-
random sequence of presentations consisting
of 12 digits (3) followed by 13 digits (i).
No. of
Sheet ( -2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+:
la - - - - 4 6 2 I I 6
ib - - - - 3 10 2 8 3
2b - - - - 8 7 5 6 2
3a - - - - - 3 6 4 8 6
3b - - - - 2 I I 2 8 8
4a - - - - - 6 8 7 9 2
4b - - - - - 4 3 5 6 4
Totals - - - - - 30 [51] 27 [56] 31
2a - - - - 13 12 13 12 12
Normal Rate
Seconds
TIMES
Sheets
la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b
60 60 6i 61 59 65 58 60
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 123
SITTING No. 37. 26 August ’42 (c. 6 p.m.)
Alternate “ Lift ” and “ Touch ” experiments (“ telepathy ”) with pre-
pared random numbers governing the selection of initial letter cards {cf.
p. 69). Also “ telepathy ” experiments with Zener symbols using prepared
random numbers {cf. p. 73).
Pre^ewt.-B.S. = (P);S.G.S. = (EP); K.M.G.=(EA); MrJ.Al.=(A).
Sheet Nos. la, 2a, 3a, 4a =(PRN) (TL) (Normal Rate).
Agent, J.Al. lifting and looking at each card.
Sheet Nos. ib, 2b, 3b, 4b=(PRN) (TL) (Normal Rate).
Agent, J.Al. touching backs of cards only.
Sheet Nos. 5, 6, 7 =(PRN) (Zener symbols) (Normal Rate) :
Agent, J.Al. lifting and looking at cards.
No. of
Sheet (
-
2) (- 1 ) ( 0) ( + 1 ) (+:
la - - - - 3 1
1
2 9 3
2a - - - - 3 6 6 4 7
3 a - - - - 8 8 3 7 5
4a - - - - 4 8 2 7 6
Totals - - - - 18 [ 33] 13 ( 27] 21
ib - - - - 6 7 4 8 7
2b - - - - 6 3 5 8 5
3 b - - - - 6 7 2 8 5
4b - - - - 5 4 6 8 4
Totals - - - - 23 [ 21 ] 17 [ 32] 21
5 a - - - - 4 4 4 4 5
5 b - - - - 3 9 7 8 2
6a - - - - 7 I 4 7 5
6b - - - - 3 5 3 7 5
7a - - - - 4 7 4 6 6
7b - - - - 6 6 8 4 4
Totals - - - - 27 32 30 36 27
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate - la ib 2a 2b 3 a 3 b 4a
Seconds -
52 55 55 53 53 58 55
Normal Rate -
5 a 5 b 6a 6b 7a 7b
Seconds -
57 55 55 55 55 53
4b
57
124 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 38. 6 January '43 {6.30 p.m.)
(Gap of 4^ months since last sitting. This extra sitting arranged in order to
supplement the data on the “ rapid ” rate experiments.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers governing
selection of initial letter cards. “ Rapid ” rate.
Present ; B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EP); Mr L. A. Rozelaar =(EA) ;
Mr
J.A1 .=(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3, 4=(PRN) (TL) (Rapid Rate) : Agent, J.Al.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2) (CC--2)
la -
9 5 5 4 7 2
ib -
9 4 3 5 7 4
2a -
9 2 5 6 6 6
2b - 10 3 3 9 5 4
3a - 10 4 2 4 7 2
3b -
9 4 I 7 5 3
4a -
7 I 2 4 3 3
4b -
7 6 4 4 2 4
Totals - - [70] 29 25 43 42 28
TIMES
Sheets
Rapid Rate - la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b
Seconds - N.T. 42 40 39 •35 29 28 29
Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 125
167]
! SITTING No. gg. 8 April '4.3 (6.10 p.m.)
(Gap of 3 months since last sitting. One of two additional sittings held at
the rooms of the Society for Psychical Research. See p. 75.)
j
Alternate “ Lift ” and “ Touch ” experiments (“ telepathy ”), with pre-
i pared random numbers governing the selection of initial letter cards.
“ Normal ” rate.
'
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S. =(EP) ;
Mr R. G. Medhurst = (EA) ;
Miss
J. Fairbairn and Mr D. Parsons = Checkers ;
Mr J.A1 .=(A).
Sheet Nos. la, 2a, 3a, 4a =(PRN) (TL) (Normal Rate) ; Agent, J.Al.
Agent lifts each card and looks at it.
Sheet Nos. ib, 2b, 3b, 4b=(PRN) (TL) (Normal Rate) : Agent, J.Al.
Agent touches backs of cards only.
No. of
Sheet (-2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) ( +2)
la - - - 6 8 4 7 7
2a - - - 4 8 4 7 2
3a - - - I 6 7 8 2
4a - - - 9 7 3 10 6
Totals - - - 20 [29] 18 [32] 17
ib - - - I 7 4 9 5
2b - - - 4 9 5 I I 4
3b - - - 6 4 5 8 2
4b - - - 3 7 5 7 I
Totals - - - 14 [27] 19 [35] 12
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate - la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b
Seconds -
55 63 70 67 59 66 68 70
126 S. G. Soal and K. M.. Goldney [part
SITTING No. 40. 15 April ’43 (6.10 p.m.)
(Held at rooms of the Society for Psychical Research.)
Variation of “ Lift and Touch ” experiment, with prepared random
numbers governing the selection of initial letter cards {cf. p. 76). “ Nor-
mal ” rate.
Present: B.S.=(P); S.G.S.=(EP); Mr D. J. West=(EA); Mr J.Al.
-(A).
Sheet Nos. i, 2, 3, 4=(PRN) (TL) (Normal Rate) : Agent, J.Al. con-
centrates on faces of cards for 15 seconds before each sheet; then touches
backs of cards at each call without lifting them.
No. of
Sheet ( -2) (-1) (0) ( + 1) (+2)
la - - - 8 10 4 9 I
ib - - - 3 7 6 7 2
2a - - - 4 6 I
5 9
2b - - 2 6 3 7 4
3a - - - I 6 2 14 4
3b - - - 6 5 3 4 10
4a - - - 3 6 I 8 4
4b - - 2 7 3 6 5
Totals - - - 29 [53] 23 [60] 39
TIMES
Sheets
Normal Rate - la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b
Seconds -
90 74 70 72 72 66 CN
0
Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 127
167]
PART THREE
CHRONICLE OF EXPERIMENTS
It was originally intended to print the Chronicle of each sitting, giving in
minute detail the conditions and happenings at each experiment. Owning
to war-time necessity for paper economy, it has been decided to omit this
lengthy record. For those who wish to make a study of the Chronicle,
duplicated copies can be obtained on application from the Society for
Psychical Research, and references to the Chronicle in the text have, there-
fore, been left intact.
The Chronicle for three sittings only is given below, to indicate the
conditions in force.
SITTING No. 8. 14 March ’41 (5 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments, with prepared random numbers and with
counters drawn from bag governing selection of cards {cf. p. 51, and List of
Scores, p. 94).
Items
1. Present: B.S.=(P); R.E.=(A); S.G.S. =(EA) for (PRN) experiments
and Recorder for (Counters) experiments; Miss Ina Jeph-
son=(0), and (EA) for (Counters) experiments; Mrs Oliver
Gatty=(EP);
During sheets 1-3, B.S.’s Assistant sat in the ante-room at
(X)* re-touching photographs. She did not enter Studio and
left at end of sheet 3.
2. B.S. seated by fire in ante-room with Mrs Gatty as (EP).
3. (A) and (EA) sit in Studio separated by screen; cards screened inside
box.
4. Doors D2 and Dj^ closed throughout progress of experiments.
5. Distance between (P) and (A) about 12 feet in a straight line drawn
through intervening wall between the two rooms. Mirror in Studio
covered by large cloth, away from card-table.
6. (EA) gave signal “ Next ” for calls, and (P) answered “ Right ” immed-
iately he had recorded his guess.
7. During sheets 1-3 (PRN), Miss Jephson sat at the experimenters’ table
and shuffled the cards before each 50 calls out of sight of both (A) and
(EA). She also checked (A’)s selection of the cards and the taking down
of the code. During sheets 4-6, Miss Jephson drew counters from the
bag for the (Counters) experiments and showed them at the aperture
in screen. S.G.S. acted as Recorder, sitting to the side of the box so
that he could not see the cards inside it.
Mrs Gatty had to leave at the end of sheet 3, after taking part in the
checking-up of results with Miss Jephson, S.G.S., and R.E.
During sheets 4-6, B.S. sat alone in the ante-room.
Cards for sheets 4-6 shuffled by (A) out of sight of (EA) and Recorder.
8. Code recorded by (EA).
9. Results decoded for sheets 4-6 at the end of sheet 6 by Miss Jephson,
S.G.S., and R.E. Miss Jephson invited to re-check any sheets she chose.
^ See Plate I.
128 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [PART:
10 .
Before duplicates were made out, Miss Jephson had to leave premises
to attend to her car-lights. She took with her all the original scoring
sheets.
On her return she assisted S.G.S. and R.E. in making out the duplicates
and posted them herself to Professor Broad in Cambridge.
Remarks. —Mrs Gatty reported in writing :
(1)
“ Mr B.S. filled in all his spaces in strict order one after the other,
leaving no gaps to return to afterwards.
(2) He wrote down his first guess at once on hearing the first call from
S.G.S.”
For B.S.’s comments see Report, p. 78.
SITTING No. 28. 21 December '41 (12.30 p.m.)
“ Telepathy ” experiments alternated with “ Clairvoyance ” (cf. p. 50 ff.)
in sheets of 50 guesses, with prepared random numbers governing selection
of animal picture cards. “ Normal ” rate. See List of Scores, p. 114.
Items
1. Present : B.S. ={T)-, R.E.=(A); S.G.S. =(EP); K.M.G.=(EA); Mr
C. A. Mace=(0).
2. B.S. and (EP) now no longer sit in front of fire-place, but at table
marked (W) in Plan.^
3. (A) and (EA) separated by screen at card-table in Studio; cards screened
inside box.
4-
5 -
Door D3 closed throughout experiment. Door Dj^ left very slightly
ajar to facilitate (P) hearing the serial numbers called by (EA).
From where (P) sat it was quite impossible for him to see the card-
table. Mirror in Studio covered by large cloth—away from card-table.
6. (EA) calls serial numbers 1-25; B.S., (P), keeps in step with these
numbers for his guesses.
N.B.—At B.S.’s own request an innovation was made in the method
of recording guesses. B.S. and (EP) sat facing each other on opposite
sides of the table. In front of (P) were five cards bearing pictures of the
five animals and placed faces upwards. When (P) heard the serial
number of the call, he spoke his guesses in a low tone and S.G.S.
recorded the initial letter of the animal’s name in the appropriate cell
of the G column. The interval between (EA)’s call and (P)’s guess was
always less than half a second. (P) was told that the sheet was for
“ telepathy ” or “ clairvoyance ” as the case might be, this being called
out by (EA).
As described on pp. 83-84, the envelope containing lists of random
digits which Mr Mace brought with him to the sitting was opened by
him inside the Studio. The sheets were handed to K.M.G., (EA), one
by one as required. They were never seen by S.G.S. or by B.S. until
the end of the sitting.
During sheet i, Mr Mace sat near (P) in ante-room. During the
remaining sheets he was in the Studio except during sheet 3, when he
returned to the ante-room and sat near (P).
Cards shuffled by (A) out of sight of (EA).
Code recorded by (EA).
7 -
8 .
167]
^ See Plate I.
i6y] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 129
9. At the end of sheet 7, Mr Mace returned to the ante-room and collected
(P)’s sheets which he took into the Studio. They were laid on the table
for decoding etc. S.G.S. read out (P)’s guesses which were decoded
and entered by K.M.G. with Mr Mace checking both. Mr Mace
watched the counting of hits and the evaluation of the critical ratio for
( + 1) hits. Before he left, Mr Mace said he thought the experiment
could hardly have been done better. The rate of calling was a little
quicker than usual.
10. Mr Mace signed the record sheets but was unable to stay to watch the
making of duplicates. These were done as usual by K.M.G., S.G.S.,
and R.E., and posted immediately in the box outside the Studio to
Professor Broad in Cambridge.
Remarks.
—As this experiment was done on a Sunday morning,
B.S.’s Lady-Assistant was not present at work. Before Mr Mace’s
arrival, K.M.G. tried calling in time to a metronome (practice only),
but B.S. declared that it would be hopeless to expect him to get results
“ with that confounded thing ticking away in the other room ”, so the
idea was abandoned.
During sheet 3, while Mace was in the ante-room, B.S. declared that
he was “ getting more vibrations from Mr Mace than from the Agent ”.
So at the end of this sheet [Mr Mace] returned to the Studio, as described
above.
SITTING No. 59. 8 April ’43 {6.10 p.ni.)
Held at the rooms of the Society for Psychical Research, 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C. i. (See p. 75.) Alternate “ Lift ” and “ Touch ”
(“telepathy”) experiments, with prepared random numbers governing the
selection of initial letter cards. “ Normal ” rate. See List of Scores, p. 125.
1. Present: B.S.=(P); J.A1 .=(A); S.G.S. =(EP); Mr R. G. Medhurst =
(EA); Miss J. Fairbairn and Mr D. Parsons = Checkers.
2. (P), (EP), and D. Parsons were seated in the Society’s seance room at
or near a small table. From his position here, (P) was quite unable to
see into the next room in which the Agent sat. (EP) recorded (P)’s
guesses.
3. (A) and (EA), as well as Miss Fairbairn, sat in the ante-room adjoining
seance room, at a table on which were the screen and box enclosing
cards (as used in B.S.’s Studio and brought here). (A) and (EA)
separated by screen : cards inside box in front of (A).
4. Door between seance room and ante-room left very slightly ajar to
facilitate hearing of (EA)’s call.
5. Distance between (A) and (P) in a straight line drawn through wall
between the two rooms c. 12 feet.
6. Serial numbers 1-25 called by (EA) as guide to (P) for recording his
guesses.
7. Medhurst, (EA), showed random numbers at the aperture in screen,
at “ normal ” rate. Miss Fairbairn recorded the times, and assisted
(EA) with “ taking down the code ” after each 50 calls.
8. When four sheets were completed, Medhurst and Miss Fairbairn,
working together, decoded (P)’s guesses and entered the numbers in the
G. column; counted the hits for the three categories ( + 1), (o), and
(
- i); and watched S.G.S. evaluate the critical ratio. They then made
130 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
duplicate records and these were checked against the original sheets by
Medhurst and Parsons. Medhurst took charge of the duplicates (after ol
the originals had been signed by all four experimenters) and posted b
them to Professor Broad. He also took away with him a private record
of the totals in all three categories. S.G.S. took no active part in any
of the decoding, checking, counting of hits, or making of duplicates,
but merely watched Medhurst and Miss Fairbairn.
APPENDIX A
1. Percentage of True Cognitions.
2. B.S. scores at a higher rate on some animal symbols than on others.
I. Percentage of True Cognitions.
We shall define a “ true cognition ” as a successful hit that is not due
to chance.
{a) If J = observed number of hits
= number of true cognitions
A^ = number of trials,
then the most probable value of x is given by the equation
r = + 3 {N -x).
Ss-N
Hence a: = '
And the percentage of true cognitions in the N trials
IOOA; I2?5 _ , ,
Let
The mean value of p is not known. But if we have two samples
and Ag with observed hits and ^2 respectively, the best value for
will be
+ i’o
AT+iVa'
Then assuming a binomial distribution {which may not always be
justifiable) the standard error of P will be
125
Po(i -Po)
A for A trials.
Hence for our two samples A^ and Ag the standard error of the differ-
ence in the percentages Pj and P^ of true cognitions will be
-li
I
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 131
{b) We may use this result to compare the percentages of true cognitions
obtained in work with the Agent R.E., (a) using (PRN) and {b) Counters
—
both at “ normal ” rate.
For (PRN) (Tel.) we have = 3789 = iioi.
„ Counters „ „ ^3 = 1578 53= 439-
Hence p^ = -28694
and substituting in the above formula we find for the Standard Error of
P1-P3, S.E. = i-69%.
But the observed value of - P3 = i -39%
.
Hence the difference is not significant (;>^
= o-82).
(c) We may check this by comparing mean observed scores ( + 1) for
24 trials.
We have mean score for PRN = 6-974
,, ,, ,, Counters = 6-677
Difference = +0-297
Variance for a set of 24 with (PRN) =5-5689
,, ,, ,, Counters =8-0278
Hence variance of mean for PRN = 5-569
157-875
-0353
„ 8-028
,, ,, ,, Counters = 7 = -1221
65-75
Variance of difference of means = -0353 + -1221 = -1574
S.E. of difference = V- 1574 = -396
Hence x = °-75 difference is not significant.
{d) As a second example we may compare the percentages of “ true
cognitions ” on (+1) guesses taken together for {a) work with J.Al. as
Agent in 1936 using Zener Cards, and [b) in 1942 with the same Agent
using Initial Letters (“ normal ” rate). We have :
1936
1942
-
_
( +i) trials ( ±1) hits % of Cognitions
576 =Ni 140=82 5-38% =Pz
1440=^1 410 =Pi 10-59% =Pi
Pi -Pa =5-21%
But
550
= =0-27282
2016 '
^ +
^3
= -00243I-
Hence S.E. of difference P^ - P3 = 2-74%
And x = i'9o which is not quite significant.
132 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
(e) Again we may check by Fisher’s method for the difference of means
of two small samples. We have
J.Al. 1942. Observed mean for 24 trials = 6-833
J.Al. 1936. „ „ „ =^2 = 5'833
Hence
Hence
But
Hence
-^2= I-OOO
«i = 6o-i=59 «2 = 24-i=23
-(^1-^1^ = 264-47
.r(a-2 -^2)" = 121-38
[264-47 -f 121-38] =4-705.
I
t =
V4-705
144°
84
= 1-9088.
^ n
No. of degrees of freedom = « = 82
can be taken to be a normal deviate with unit standard error.
Vfe ^ = i-88s
a value which agrees very closely with ^^
= 1-90 obtained by the previous
method.
Had there been a significant difference in percentages of cognitions, we
could of course have drawn no conclusions as to the factors which pro-
duced it.
(/) Test for Variance.
For J.Al. 1936, we have = 5-277 ^^ = 23
,, „ 1942 „ •J2‘^ = 4'483 «2 = 59
2 = 1-1513 (logio 5-277-logio 4-483) = o-o8i 5
For the 5% point ^>0-2654
Hence the difference in variance is not significant.
2. Does B.S. score at a higher rate on some animal symbols than on others?
Denote the five symbols Z, E, L, G, P by i, 2, 3, 4, 5 respectively.
Suppose that in n trials ( + i) the symbols are presented a^, <22. «5
times and guessed g2, g^, gn, g^ times. Let the observed numbers of hits
on the five symbols be 5^^
and the numbers of “ true cognitions
”
be X2...X5. Then clearly is given by the equation
iS* — x^ ,
(gi-^i)(^i-^i)
n-X
where X= xj^ + x2 + x^ + x^ + x^.
Now X is the most probable number of cognitions in n trials and can be
found from the equation N = X + ^ (n - X) where S is the total observed
number of hits. Whence can be found as the positive root of a quadratic
equation, and similarly we can find X2, X3...X5.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 133
Thus for Group i \ Agents R.E., G.A., C.E.M.J., K.M.G.(?), a
Normal Rate, we have for ( + i) hits
gl---Ss
-
(i)
- 1118
- 1224
(2)
1393
1206
(3) (4)
1196 1206
1213 1177
(s)
1126
1219
Totals
6039
6039
-
349 414 316 352 324 1755
Hence X is given by the equation
i
755 =A: + H6039-Z)
Or a: =684
And is given by the quadratic
(1224 -xA (1118 -x:,)
349 T'
6039-684
Solving this and the four similar quadratics we obtain for x-,...x^ the
values
X-^ X2 X3 ^5 Total
157-84 182-73 79-79 149-14 115-94 685-44
The total 685-44 is sufficiently close to 684 to afford a good check on the
work.
Now the phrase “ equal degrees of success on the five symbols ” might
be interpreted to mean that
^2 ^3 ^4 ^5 ^
On this interpretation we can calculate the “ expected ” values of Xj'.-.Xj'
and compare them with the “ observed ” most probable values.
We obtain
Xi X2 X3 Xi X3 Totals
Observed - - 157-84 182-73 7979 I49i4 H 5'94 68544
Expected - - 138-93 136-88 137-68 i33’59 138-36 685-44
Deviations - - +18-91 +45-85 -57-89 +15-55 -22-42
Whence X^ = 47'7 with «'=4, P<-ooi
Hence there are widely different degrees of success with the five animals.
Especially noticeable is the failure to score on (3) the Lion. This may
possibly be due to some inhibition caused by the subconscious emotion of
fear, since the lion is the most dangerous of the five animals chosen as
presentation objects.
We might however interpret “ equal degrees of success ” to imply that
V* V*
*^1 2 "3 *^4 *^5
Kz Ss Si So
X
n
^
See pp. 62-63.
I
134 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
On this interpretation we obtain
Observed
Expected
- 157-84
126-90
182-73
158-11
79-79
135-75
Xi
149-14
136-88
X5
115-94
127-80
Totals
685-44
685-44
Deviations - -^30-94 -f 24-62 -55-96 + 12-26 00
M
I
Whence with w' = 4
Again, P<-ooi and there are highly significant differences in degrees
of success with the five symbols. The Lion (3) is again much below
expectation.
APPENDIX B
Effects of Multiple-Determination
A ( ±1) guess is said to be multiply-determined if the “ actual ” card
presentations which immediately precede and follow it are presentations
of the same symbol.
Thus L L
^E and ->L where the arrow denotes the point in the
L L
sequence at which the guess is made, are examples of multiple-deter-
mination for ( ±1) guesses.
L L L
G L G
„ T etc. are cases of multiple-determina-
S.m.larly^E or or
,i„„ fo, (
guesses.
L L L
Confining our attention at present to ( ±1) guesses, let us suppose that
in a sequence of ti guesses there are m of these that are multiply-
determined. :
Now suppose that in the whole sequence of n trials the number of i
( + i) true cognitions is pn and the number of (
— i) true cognitions is qn.
There are three hypotheses to consider :
{a) That ( + i) and (
- 1) true cognitions are mutually exclusive. That
is to say, in cases where it is possible for both a ( -1-
1) cognition and a (
- i)
cognition to occur at the same guess, only one of these and not both can
occur.
{b) That ( + i) and (
- i) true cognitions are independent of each other.
That is to say, when a guess is sandwiched between two cards of the same
symbol, there may occur a ( + i) cognition only or a ( - i) cognition only
or both a ( -I-
1) and a (
- i) cognition.
(r) That in the case of the guess sandwiched between two cards of the ;
same symbol, the ( -)-
1) and (
- i) presentations may tend to reinforce each
other : so that the chance of (say) a ( + i
)
cognition is higher in this case
than it would be where the guess lay between two cards of different
symbols.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 135
Of the two hypotheses [a) and [b), the second {b) is the more natural,
but on the other hand hypothesis (a) leads to the greater theoretical
expectation of (±1) hits.
Take first hypothesis [a).
In the case of the m multiply-determined guesses, the expectation of
(
+ i) true cognitions will be p7n and the expectation of (
- i) true cogni-
tions is qm. Hence the expected number of (±1) hits taken together
corresponding to these true cognitions will be 2 (p + q)m. Of the remainder
the number of ( ± i )
hits due to chance will be f {m -pm - qm).
Hence the total expectation of hits ( ±1) on the m multiply-determined
guesses is
2{p + q)m + |(w -pm + qm)= — [i + 4^{p + 9)].
Now take hypothesis {b).
In the case of a multiply-determined guess, the chance of a ( + 1)
cognition is p and that of a (
— 1) cognition is q. Hence the chance that
neithei' a ( + i) nor a (
- i) cognition will occur is (i -p){i -q) since the
chances are independent.
Clearly then the expected number of (±1) hits corresponding to true
cognitions will be
2m[i-{i -p){i -q)]= 27n[p + q-pq].
On the remaining guesses the number of (
l i) hits arising from chance
OffL
will be — [i ^ +pq]-
Hence the total expectation of ( ±1) hits on the rn multiply-determined
2,Ttl
guesses will be 2m[p + q-pq]+ — [i -p-q-^pq)_
im
Hence hypothesis {a) leads to the greater expectation though in practice
the term fg usually small, and the difference between the two
expectations is not very important.
Hypothesis (c).
In order to test whether hypothesis (c) is probable, we shall choose the
higher of the two expectations to be on the safe side.
[
The above analysis is more accurate than the method of treatment
!
adopted in the previous paper by S.G.S.^ but the conclusions arrived at
in that paper are quite unaffected.
We shall first apply the method to the work of B.S. with the Agent
: J.Al. with whom, it will be remembered, (
- i) as well as ( + i) cognitions
‘
were scored.
There were 1440 (±1) trials. In a random distribution the expected
i
number of M.D. guesses is x 60 x 23 =276 ( ±1) M.D. trials.
^Proc. xlvi, 152 ff.
136 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
The observed number of (±1) M.D. trials is 288—in good agreement
with expectation.
Now on the 720 ( + 1) trials B.S. scored 203 ( + i) hits, and 207 ( - i)
hits on the 720 ( - i) trials. (See Table XV, p. 65.)
It follows that there are 7375 ( + 1) true cognitions and 78-75 (-1)
true cognitions.
Hence ^ = 73-75-^720 = 0-10243
9 = 7875^720 = 0-10937.
Hence taking hypothesis {a) (mutually exclusive case) we find the
following expectations and observed values for successful hits (S) and
failures (F).
S F Total ( ± i) (M.D. trials)
E . - - 106-31 181-69 288
O - - . 142 146 288
Whence, with Yates’ correction = 18-36 and = 4-28, a highly significant
result (P<3 x io~®).
Taking hypothesis {b) we have F= 103-82 instead of 106-31 and the
result would be still more significant (^=4-62).
On the other hand the Group i Agents ^ with whom B.S. obtained only
( -f i) cognitions do not produce any M.D. effect on ( ±1) guesses.
For these Agents we have 12,077 ( ±t) trials at “ normal ” rate. Hence
expected number of ( ±1) M.D. trials
12077 23
24 5
while the counted number of such trials is 2276 which is in good agreement
with expectation.
No. of ( -t-
1) true cognitions = 684
)> (-1) >) ). =4
Hence ^ = 684/6039=0-11326
q— 4/6038=0-00066
Hence on hypothesis (a) we find :
S F Total ( ±1) (M.D. trials)
E . - . 662-63 1613-37 2276
O - . . 640 1636 2276
Whence with Yates’ correction 7 = 1-04, a result which has no
significance.
We may also apply the method to the results obtained by B.S. with all
Agents in 1936.“
On hypothesis (a) we have
S F Total (±1) (M.D. trials)
E - - - 5946 13454 194
O - - - 90 104 194
Whence 7 = 21-89 or x = 4'68 with Yates’ correction—a highly signifi-
cant result.
' See p. 62 f.
^
Proc. xlvi, 190 (Table 14).
i6y] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 137
Effect of Multiple-Determination on (±2) hits at “ Rapid ” Rate.
We find equally good evidence that when the experiment is carried out
at “rapid ” rate with J.Al. as Agent, the ( ±2) presentations tend to reinforce
each other when the guess is of the multiply-determined type.
In the three experiments with J.Al. at “ rapid rate ”, we have 23
columns comprising in all 23 x 23 X2 = i058 (±2) trials. As the distri-
bution is random we should expect to find 23x2x21x^ = 193-2 (±2)
guesses of the multiply-determined type, since the maximum number for
a single column is 2x21.
The actual observed number of such M.D. trials is 204, which is in
good agreement with expectation.
Now on the 529 ( + 2) trials (P) scores 149 ( + 2) hits
On,, 529 (-2) „ „ „ i5i(-2)hits.
Whence, proceeding as in the previous section, we obtain on hypothesis
(a) (mutually exclusive case) the following expectations (P), and observed
values (O), for ( ±2) successful hits (S) and ( ±2) failures (F).
S F Total (±2) (M.D. trials)
E _ - - 74'89 1291 1 204
O - - . 104 100 204
Whence with Yates’ correction = 17-27 or x = 4‘i,—a highly signifi-
cant result in favour of the hypothesis of reinforcement (P<4 x io“®).
APPENDIX C
Single Successes and Success Groups
It was the impression of both experimenters while the work was in
progress that the successful hits were not randomly distributed in the
series but tended to crowd together into runs, as though extra-sensory
cognition occurred in short spasms. Subsequent analysis however proved
this impression to be a mistaken one.
We have counted for Group i Agents (c/. pp. 62-63) the numbers of
singletons {i.e. isolated hits), doubles {i.e. runs of 2 successes), “ triples ”,
etc. on the ( + i) trials at “ normal ” rate in order to discover if there were
any grounds for the above hypothesis of “ close packing ”. There are none.
We have computed the expectations of “ singletons ”, “ doubles ”,
etc. from the approximate formulae
Ei = np{i -pY + 2p‘^{\ -p)
E2 = np^{i -pf-p^{i -p){i -3P)
Es = np^{i -pf- 2p^{i -p){i -2p)
Ei = nff{i -p)^ approx.
E^ = np^{i-pf „ etc.
using the “ observed ” value oi p = 1755/6039 = 0-29061 instead oi p = 1/5.
[part
138 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney
The results are given in the following table :
(N.B.—Counts have been carried on from the end of one column of 25
to the beginning of the next without any breaks in the sequence.)
TABLE XXX
(Tel.) (Normal Rate) (i755( + i) hits)
Groupl: Agents: R.E.; G.A.; K.M.G.(?); C.E.M.J.
Runs of I 2 3 4 5 or more
Expected - 883-29 256-65 74'S8 21-67 8-86
Observed - 884 227 84 26 ii
The number of “ singletons ” is curiously close to the expectation
computed by this method, but this is of course a fluke. However, we have
also computed the number of singletons from Stevens’ formula
ab{b-i)
^ {a + b - i){a + b -2)
where a = number of “ hits ”, = number of failures, so that a-\-b = n =
6039 and a = 1755. The result is = 883-4 which is in close agreement
with that derived from our method. As all the counts have been carefully
checked, the unusually close agreement with the observed number must
be considered as an interesting fluke, as already stated. The other cate-
gories also provide observed numbers sufficiently close to expectation to
dispose of the theory of the crowding of hits.
We have further computed the expected number of “ success groups
”
by Stevens’ formula
^
^(^+1)
a + b
with variance equal to
Exb{a-i)
{a + b){a + b-i)
Writing 0 = 1755, ^ = 4284 in these formulae we obtain £=1245-3,
V = 256-62. Hence Standard Error of E is ^256-62 = 16-02.
But Observed number of “ Success Groups ” is 1232 = 0.
The difference £-0 = 13-3, which is less than the Standard Error.
123 45
(N.B.—In such a run as fsff ssf sss ff ssss fsf, where 5 denotes a success and
/ a failure, there are 5
“ success groups ”, as indicated.
This calculation brought home to us how easy it is to be deceived by
impressions resulting from a cursory inspection of the data, especially
when one is looking for or hoping for a special effect.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 139
APPENDIX D
I. Distribution of ( + i) Hits in Places 1-24
The distribution of the 1755 ( + i) hits for Group I Agents {cf. pp. 62-63)
in the “ telepathy ” experiments at “ normal ” rate is given in the
following table :
TABLE XXXI
( + i) hits (Tel.) (“ Normal ” Rate) (PRN) and (Counters)
Agents: R.E.; G.A.; K.M.G.(?); C.E.MJ.
Place
I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 I I 12
53 76 59 77 66 57 74 81 80 79 85 74
13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
80 77 58 84 82 68 81 73 89 66 70 66
On the assumption of a random distribution of the ( + i
)
successes over
the 24 places in the column, the mean expectation for each place is 1755/24
= 73-125. We have = 29-60 which with 23 degrees of freedom gives
P — o-i’j, a value which is not abnormal.
2. The distribution of { + 2) hits for all experiments at “ Rapid ” Rate up
to 5 June 1942 is given in the Table which follows
:
TABLE XXXII
( +2) hits (Tel.) (“ Rapid ” Rate) (Counters) and (PRN)
Agents : R.E. (Counters) and J.Al. (PRN)
No. of ( +2) hits =343
Place
I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1
1
12
15 22 16 15 1
1
20 17 14 I I lO 14 16
13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 Total
24 1
1
10 12 17 16 14 12 14 18 14 343
For ( + 2) hits the expectation for each of the 23 places is 14-91.
We have x^ = 19-84 which with 22 degrees of freedom gives P = o-6
nearly,—a result without significance.
140 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
APPENDIX E
(Carry-on of ( + i) Hits from Column (a) to Column {b)
The interesting question arises : Is there any carry-over of ( + 1) hits
j
from call No. 25 of Column (a) to call No. i of Column (6).? We should
not expect this to occur, since there is always an interval of at least 6 or 7
seconds between the completion of Column {a) and the start of Column
{b), and we have seen that B.S.’s span of precognition does not reach
5 seconds. Actual counts confirm this expectation.
We have :
TABLE XXXIII
Group P (PRN)
(-Hi) Trials
93
(-Hi) hits
19
(Counters) 33 5
J.Al. (PRN) 16 5
Totals 142 29
Thus out of 142 “ carry-over ” trials at “ normal ” rate we have 29
( + i) hits, which is obviously a chance result.
APPENDIX F
List of ( + i) Scores at (variable) “ Normal ” Rates
Times of calling were not recorded till 21 March 1941 and even after
that date odd columns were sometimes left untimed.
The following table gives “ telepathy ” scores at each recorded time
for a column of 25 calls. We have included Group I Agents and the
Agent J.Al., but excluded Group II Agents.'^ It will be seen that with the
successful Agents significant ( + 1) scores were obtained at practically all
rates lying between 80 seconds and 50 seconds for a column of 25 calls.
It will be noticed that there are more scores at 60, 65, 70, 75 seconds
than at the intermediate rates. This is due to the fact that on many
occasions (EA) deliberately aimed at finishing the column in a number of
seconds which was an exact multiple of 5. But it is also probable that
(EA) sometimes “ rounded off ” a time of say 74 or 76 seconds and made
it 75 -
TABLE XXXIV
(Tel.) (“Normal” Rate) Agents; R.E.; G.A.; K.M.G.(?); C.E.M.J;
and J.A1 .
Time in Seconds
25 calls (-Hi) Scores
95 7
85 7
80 8, 8, 10, 7
^ See pp. 62-63. “ Unsuccessful Agents, see p. 62.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 141
77 8, 9
76 9
75 9- 7. 6, 8, 5, 8, 6, 8, 7, 9, 6, 6, 7, 6
72 5, 7, 8, 8, 8
71 8
70 8, 8, 6, 6, 10, 6, lo, 10, 8, 5, 4, 8, 8, 5, 3, 9, 8
68 14, 7
67 5
66 3, 8, 7, 10, I
65 4, 7, 6, 6, 10, 4, 10, 8, 6, 8, II, 10, 3, 4, 5, 7, 7, 6, 4, 8, 8
64 8, 9, II
63 4. 4, 6, 7
62 4, 5, 5, 3, 5- 7, 6, 9
61 3. 4. 4. 7. 9, 6, 5, 12, 6, 7
60 II, 12, 4, 5, II, 5, 7, 8, 7, 10, 5, 10, 5, 6, 7, 8, II, 3, 6,
4, II, 8, 6
59 8, 7, 4, 8, 8
58 4. 6, 5, 9, 8
57 10, 9, 4, 3, 7, 12, 6, 8, 5, 6, 7, 4, 8
56 6, 7, 3, 6, 6, 4
55 2, 7, 7, 4, 4, 6, 6, 8, 8, 8, 4, 7
54 8, 8, 5, 4
53 12, 8, 8, 7
52 8, 7, 4, 4, 6, 9
51 7
50 7, 9, 7. 9, 8, 4, 2
48 2, 5
47 5. 7, 8
46 3
Taking class intervals of 5 seconds, and putting half the total score at,
say, 55 seconds into the class 50-55 and the other half in the class 55-60,
and doing the same for the upper and lower rates (taken as 80 and 50
seconds respectively), we have the following Table :
TABLE XXXV
Rate ( + i) Score No. of Scores Mean score for 24
75-80 91-5 12-0 7-62
70-75 1540 21-5 7-16
65-70 187-0 27-0 6-93
60-65 3120 47-0 6-64
55-60 308-5 465 6-63
50-55 163-5 24-5 6-67
It must however be pointed out that the different scoring rates are not
randomly distributed among the experiments. As a matter of fact the
higher times [i.e. slower rates) occur for the most part in the earlier
experiments with R.E. as Agent while S.G.S. w'as (EA), whereas the
rates round about 50-60 seconds occur as a rule after K.M.G. became (EA).
All that can be inferred safely is that varying the rate between 50 and 80
seconds does not appear to inhibit significant scoring of (
+ 1) hits.
[part
142 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney
(2) Timing at “ Rapid ” Rate.
At “ rapid ” rate there is very little variation in the time for a column
of 25 calls, since in this case the experiment was carried out as fast as the
apparatus permitted.
Using (Counters) and with R.E. as Agent, the mean time for a column
is 34'4i seconds ;
while with J.Al. as Agent and using a modified form of
(PRN), the mean time is 33-12 seconds.
For both Agents it is 34-00 seconds and the Standard Error for a column
is only 2-84 seconds.
APPENDIX G
Additional Data
I. Distribution of number presentations over the places 1-5 of cards in the
box in all experiments at “ normal ” rate between January 1941 and
16 January 1942 inclusive.
In the Table given below we have counted 25 presentations to each
column, and “ clairvoyance ” as well as “ telepathy ” experiments are
included. Experiments after 16 January 1942, with J.Al. as Agent, are
not included, as these computations were completed before he took part
in the experiments.
TABLE XXXVI
Places - - - I 2 3 4 5 Totals
(PRN) -
1439 1462 1494 1414 1366 7175
Counters 472 455 414 460 449 2250
Totals - - - I9I I 1917 1908 1874 1815 9425
For (PRN) we have : expectations for each place = 1435 whence with
« = 4, ;)('2 = 6-45 [o-2>P>o-i]
For (Counters) : expectation for each place = 450 whence with
”=4> X^ = 4'07 [o-5>-P>0'3]
For (PRN) + (Counters) ; expectation for each place = 1885 whence
with « = 4, x2 = 3.y6 [-5>P>-3]
The distributions of presentations at “ normal ” rate agree sub-
stantially with expectation.
2. Variance from Observed Mean.
For Group I Agents,^ (“ Telepathy ”) (PRN) at “ Normal ” Rate ( + i)
guesses :
We have : No. of sets of 24 ( + i) trials = 185-875
Mean score for 24 trials = 7-080
Observed variance from this mean = 5-462
Expected variance on assumption of a binomial distribution in which
/) = o-295oo, ^ = 0-70500 = 24 x/)y = 4-99i4.
The Standard Error of the above expected variance = 0-514 {cf. Fisher :
“ Statistical Methods for Research Workers ”, p, 73).
* See pp. 62-63.
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 143
Hence the observed variance is not inconsistent with the assumption
I of a binomial distribution.
For (Counters) at “ Normal ” Rate ( + i) trials (Agent = R.E.) we have :
No. of sets of 24 (
+ i) trials =65-75
I
Mean score for 24 trials =x = 6-677
Observed variance from this mean = 8-0278
Expected variance on assumption of a binomial distribution (in which
= 0-27820, 9 = 0-72 1 80) = 24/)^ = 4-8 1 93
Standard Error of the above expected variance = 0-838
Whence OF-£'F = 8-0278 - 4-8193 =+ 3-2085—a difference which is
nearly 4 times the Standard Error.
The scores of the (Counters) experiments are clearly not consistent
with the assumption of a binomial distribution, but the reason for this
abnormal “ scatter ” would seem to be that on the dates 13 June 1941 and
3 January 1942 there were large batches of trials which gave only chance
results. That is to say the material is not homogeneous.
The difference between the two variances 8-0278 (Counters) and
; 5-462 (PRN) is just (dubiously) significant. With the usual notation we
have
•3^ = 1-1513 (logio 8-028 -logio 5-462) = 0-1925
With = 64-75 ;
”2= ’'84-875. we find by the Interpolation method
{cf. Fisher, op. cit. p. 225) 5% point for = 0-1610
1% „ „ =0-2269
Hence there exists a (not very) significant difference between the two
variances.
(3) Variance from Theoretical Mean.
It was advocated by Kellogg (“ New Evidence {}) for Extra-Sensory
Perception ”, The Scientific Monthly, October 1937, vol. XLV, pp. 331-41)
—on grounds that to us appear to be unjustified—that in working out the
critical ratio the observed variance from the theoretical mean should be
substituted for the theoretical variance.
But even if we do this, our results will still be very highly significant.
We have for Group I Agents ^ (Telepathy) (PRN) (“ Normal ” Rate).
Actual mean of hits for 24 ( + i) trials = 7-080
Theoretical ,, ,, ,,
=4-800
Difference = T 2-280
Observed variance from 4-8 = 10-688
Hence Standard Error for mean= J10-688/ sj 185-875 =0-240 and x = 9-5
Similarly for (Counters) at “ Normal ” Rate, we have
Actual mean of hits for 24 ( + i) trials = 6-677
Theoretical ,, ,, ,,
=4-800
Difference = 1-877
Observed variance from 4-8 = 11-606
Hence Standard Error for mean= Jii-bobj *765-75=0-420 andx = 4-47-
^ See pp. 62-63.
144 iS. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
APPENDIX H
Two Preliminary Experiments
Two experiments were carried out on first contacting B.S. again, before
the commencement of the series proper. The conditions were far from
ideal, the sittings being merely for the sake of preliminary exploration.
We record them however in this Appendix, in order that no single experi-
ment, from first to last, should be left unrecorded. We shall refer to
them as Experiment A and Experiment B.
Experiment A
Experiment B
31 Dec. 1940; S.G.S.=(EA); R.E.=(A);
17 Jan. 1941; S.G.S.=(EA); R.E.-(A);
B.S.-(P).
B.S.=(P).
Conditiom.—These were to all intents and purposes identical at each
sitting. Doors D2 and Da^ were kept closed during progress of experiments.
B.S. sat alone in ante-room in front of fireplace recording his guesses. His
Lady-Assistant was also in ante-room at work at work-table (B)^ and did
not enter Studio while experiments were in progress. (EA) and (A) sat
at card-table in Studio. Five plain white cards, shuffled by (A), were spread
out, face downwards, in front of the Agent, on the faces of which had been
pasted strips of differently coloured paper—brown, blue, green, yellow,
red—the other sides of the cards remaining blank. S.G.S. referred to
previously prepared sheets of random digits i -5 ;
he pointed with a pencil
to the card before Agent corresponding in turn to the figures on his list;
the card was lifted and looked at by (A) and dropped back into place. (EA)
called “ Are you ready? ”—“ First Card ”—“ Next ”—“ Next ” to (P) in
the next room, who recorded his guess on the sheets with which he had
been provided and called back “ Right ” each time after doing so. At the
end of every 5 guesses he added “ 5 ”, “ 10 ”, “ 15 ”, “ 20 ”, as the case
might be, to ensure that he was keeping in step with (EA). At the twenty-
fifth call (EA) shouted “ Last guess ”. There was then an interval of six or
seven seconds before (EA) called “ Second column. Are you ready? First
card—Next—Next ” etc. The code for (A)’s cards was recorded at end of
50 guesses, and checking up of B.S.’s guesses was also carried out after each
sheet of 50 guesses. The cards were then re-shuffled by (A) and the next
sheet proceeded with in the same way. At the end of the fifth and last
sheet, signatures of S.G.S., B.S. and R.E. were entered on each sheet.
No duplicate records were made on either of these first two occasions.
Scoring sheets were taken home by S.G.S. and re-checked.
RESULTS OF EXPERIMENT A
Sheet la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b 5a 5b
(Precog.) ( + 1)732 8 8 7 4 6 9 8
(Direct) (o) 5873966764
(Postcog.) (- i) 4225367156
Totals X
62 +2-26
61 +i '74
41 -fi3
Note.—S.G.S. did not trouble to evaluate experiments A and B by
Stevens’ method. As there are 10 columns, the number of precognitive
trials is 10 x 24 =240, and the expected number of precognitive ( + i) hits
is i of 240 =48. The actual number of ( + i) hits in experiment A being 62,
^ See Plate I.
:
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 145
we have a positive deviation of + 14 which, compared with a Standard Error
!
of 6-197, gives x= 2'26 withP= 02. As however this result is chosen as
the best of the three scores ( + i), (o), and (
- i), the chance of getting at
least one of the three scores with a deviation (either + or -) of this magni-
tude is approximately 3 x-o2= o6. The result therefore can scarcely be
regarded as significant.
RESULTS OF EXPERIMENT B
Sheet la ib 2a 2b 3a 3b 4a 4b 5a 5b Totals X
(Precog.) ( + 1) 2 5 6 6 9 1
1
6 7 3 4 59 + 1-77
(Direct) (0) 4 4 8 6 10 7 2 6 7 7 61 + 1-74
(Postcog.) (
- 1) 4 6 3 5 5 7 8 4 6 5 53 + o-8i
Note .
—The results in Experiment B on Precognitive ( + 1) and Direct (o)
hits are not separately significant though they both point towards significance.
If, however, we combine the results of the two experiments A and B,
we obtain
Trials Hits Deviation X
(Precog.) ( + 1) -
480 121 + 25 + 2-85
(Direct) (0) - 500 122 + 22 + 2-45
(Postcog.) (- 1)
-
480 94 - 2 -0-23
The results are seen to be significant on both ( + i) (Precognitive) hits
I and on (o) (Direct) hits, but the (
- i) (Postcognitive) score can be ascribed
i
to chance. As has been recorded in the Report, B.S. has never been able
to score any significant postcognitive successes while working with R.E.
as Agent.
Times were not recorded for either experiment A or B, but the average
interval between successive calls was probably within the limits of the
“ normal ” rate : i.e. between 2 and 4 seconds.
The defects of the above-mentioned technique are obvious. No screen
separated (A) from (EA) ;
(EA) might catch a glimpse of the cards as
they were lifted by (A) and therefore act as unconscious Agent in addition
to (A) ;
having seen the card, it would become possible for him to convey
a code to (P) by inflection of the voice in making the calls. (P) was not
controlled in any way and his recording of guesses was not checked.
After these two preliminary experiments and at the commencement of the
series proper, due precautions were taken to eliminate all such obvious
objections. As recorded, animal picture cards were used in future and
the colour-cards discarded, B.S. having told us he found colours confusing
and that he felt he would do better with pictures of concrete objects.
APPENDIX I
Persons who witnessed and took part in the experiments
(see The Chronicle)
Dr H. Godwin Baynes, ii Mansfield Street, London, W. i and c/o S.P.R.,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i. Sitting No. 18.
H. A. Berens, Esq., 42 Mount Park Crescent, Ealing, London, W. 5. Sitting
No. 13.
'
Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. i. Sitting
No. 27.
146 S. G. Soal a7id K. M. Goldney [part
H. Chibbett, Esq., 4 Palace Road, Bowes Park, London, N. ii. Sitting
Nos. 3, 4, 14, 30.
Miss Joyce Fairbairn, B.Sc., 69 Carlton Avenue East, Wembley, Mdx.
Sitting No. 39.
Mrs Oliver Gatty, c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, W.C.i. Sitting No. 8.
Miss Ina Jephson, c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. i. Sitting No. 8.
Dr C.E. M.Joad, Birkbeck College, University of London. Sitting Nos.
23, 26.
Miss Keymedy (address not known). Sitting No. 30.
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square,
W.C. I. Sitting No. 7.
C. A. Mace, Esq., M.A., Reader in Psychology, University of London, and
c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. i. Sitting No. 28.
R. G. Medhurst, Esq., B.Sc., c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. i.
Sitting Nos. 31, 32, 33, 39.
Denys Parsons, Esq., M.Sc., c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. i. Sitting
No. 39. ,
Professor H. Habberley Price, New College, Oxford, and c/o S.P.R., 31
Tavistock Square, W.C. i. Sitting No. 17.
Kejineth Richmond, Esq., c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. i. Sitting
Nos. 6, 9.
Mrs Kenneth Richmond, c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. i. Sitting
No. 10.
L. A. Rozelaar, Esq., M.A., Queen Mary College, London University.
Sitting No. 38.
D. y. West, Esq., c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. i. Sitting No. 40.
B. P. Wiesner, Esq., D.Sc., Ph.D., 9 Weymouth Street, W. i, and c/o S.P.R.,
31 Tavistock Square, W.C. i. Sitting Nos. ii, 13, 14, 16, 30.
Mrs Woollard, c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. i. Sitting Nos. 21,
23, 24, 26.
Mrs Wykehatn-Martin, 2 Ashburn Gardens, London, S.W. 7. Sitting
No. 35.
Persons who prepared sheets of random figures for use in the experiments
.
(cf. pp. 83-84)
C. U. Blascheck, Esq., Clare College, Cambridge.
Gerhard Wassermami, Esq., B.Sc., Queen Mary College, London University
and 15 Victoria Park, Cambridge.
APPENDIX J
List of Tables
Note: Principal Agents = R.E., G.A., and J.Al (results highly signifi-
cant). More or less superficial tests (seldom exceeding 1 50 calls)
were made with ten other Agents (results negative).
Table I (p. 46). All the precognitive (+1) guesses and hits over the
total period when working with Prepared Random Numbers at the
“ normal ” rate in “ Telepathy ” experiments with R.E. as Agent.
Table Ia (p. 47). Appendix to Table I showing totals of guesses and
hits in the five categories (o), (±1), ( ±2).
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 147
Table II (p. 49). Results of all “ Clairvoyance ” experiments, first series.
Table III (p. 50). Results of all “Clairvoyance” experiments, second
series (“ Clairvoyance” alternated with “Telepathy ” experiments in
sheets of 50 calls).
Table IV (p. 50). Total (+1) scores on alternated “Telepathy” and
“ Clairvoyance” sheets.
Table V (p. 51). “Clairvoyance” scores, series i and 2 combined.
Table VI (p. 54). All the precognitive ( + 1) guesses and hits over the
total period in the “ Counters ” experiments at “ normal ” rate with
R.E. as Agent.
Table VII (p. 56). All the precognitive ( + i) guesses and hits over the
total period in the “ Counters ” experiments at “ rapid ” rate with
R.E. as Agent.
Table VIIa (p. 57). All the precognitive ( + 2) guesses and hits over the
total period in the “ Counters ” experiments at “ rapid ” rate with
R.E. as Agent.
Table VIII (p. 58). Scores in the five categories (o), ( ±1), (±2) for all
“ Counters ” experiments at “ normal ” rate with R.E. as Agent.
Table IX (p. 58). Scores in the five categories (o), (±1), (±2) for all
“ Counters ” experiments at “ rapid ” rate with R.E. as Agent.
Table X (p. 59). Results of all precognitive (
+ 1) guesses and hits at
“ slow ” rate (5 seconds between each call) with R.E. as Agent.
Table Xa (p. 59). Total ( + i) scores on sheets at alternate “ slow ” and
“ normal ” rates.
Table XI (p. 60). Results on 21 February 1941 with R.E. as Agent.
Table XIa (p. 60). Results on 21 February 1941 with K.M.G. (?) as
Agent.
Table XII (p. 62). All the precognitive (
+ i) guesses and hits in experi-
ments at “ normal ” rate with G.A. as Agent.
Table XIII (p. 63). Totals for all “ Telepathy” experiments at “ nor-
mal ” rate with Agents R.E. and G.A. (plus two other short scores by
K.M.G.(?) and C.E.M.J.).
Table XIV (p. 63). Results with 8 other Agents with whom negative
results were obtained (superficial tests only, seldom exceeding 150
calls).
Table XV (p. 65). Precognitive (
+ i) and postcognitive (
- i) scores in
“ Telepathy ” experiments at “ normal ” rate with J.Al as Agent.
Table XVI (p. 66). Precognitive ( + i) and postcognitive (
- i) scores in
“ Telepathy ” experiments at “ rapid ” rate with J.Al as Agent.
Table XVIa (p. 66). Precognitive ( + 2) and postcognitive (
- 2) scores
in “ Telepathy ” experiments at “ rapid ” rate with J.Al as Agent.
Table XVII (p. 68). Results with non-random presentations (two digits
only) at “ normal ” and “ rapid ” rates with J.Al as Agent.
148 S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney [part
Table XVIIa (p. 69). Number of digits in “ correct ” and “ wrong ”
parts of column in experiments with non-random presentations (two
digits only).
Table XVIIb (p. 69). Contingency Table showing distribution of
“ Relevant ” and “ Non-Relevant” digits in the experiments with
non-random presentations (two digits only).
Table XVIII (p. 70). Combined (±1) trials and hits in “Lift and
Touch ” experiments of 26 August 1942.
Table XIX (p. 71). Totals of ( + i) trials and hits for experiments with
“ Picture ” cards alternated with “ Associated Word ” cards on 14 and
25 August 1941
.
Table XX (p. 72). Mean of the differences between each “ Picture
”
score and “ Associated Word ” score on successive sheets in experi-
ments on 14 and 25 August 1941.
Table XXI (p. 73). Scores in the five categories (o), (±1), (±2) in
experiments with Zener cards on 26 August 1942.
Table XXII (p. 74). Scores in the five categories (o), ( ±1), ( ±2) in the
“ Special Experiment ” with Counters on 9 May 1941 (Influence of
(P) on (EA) ).
Table XXIII (p. 75). Scores in the five categories (o), ( ±1), ( ±2) in the
“ Special Experiment ” with Counters on 7 August 1942 (Influence of
(P) on (EA) ).
Table XXIV (p. 76). Precognitive (
+ i) and postcognitive (
- i) scores
in both “ Lift ” and “ Touch ” experiments on 8 April 1943.
Table XXV (p. 76). Combined (±1) scores for “Lift and Touch”
experiments on 8 April 1943.
Table XXVI (p. 77). Precognitive (
+ i) and postcognitive (
- i) scores
for the “ Gaze and Touch ” experiment of 15 April 1943.
Table XXVII (p. 77). Combined (±1) scores for experiments on 8
April and 15 April 1943.
Table XXVIII (p. 78). Contingency Table showing distribution of (
+ i)
successes and failures on B. S.’s “ marked ” and “ unmarked ” guesses
between dates 24 January 1941 and 14 August 1941.
Table XXIX (p. 78). Percentages of True Cognitions obtained by B.S.
under varying conditions of health.
Table XXX (p. 138). Runs of i, 2, 3, 4, 5 or more, successes with Group
I Agents ^
Table XXXI (p. 139). Distribution of ( + i) hits in places i - 24 of scoring
sheet with Group I Agents.^
Table XXXII (p. 139). Distribution of (
+ 2) hits for Agents R.E. (with
Counters) and J.Al (with (PRN) )
in places i - 23 of scoring sheet in
all “ Telepathy ” experiments at “ rapid ” rate.
^ Group I comprises all “ Telepathy ” experiments at “ normal ” rate with Agents
R.E. and G.A., plus two other short scores by K.M.G.(?) and C.E.M.I. (see p. 62).
167] Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy 149
Table XXXIII (p. 140). Precognitive ( + 1) hits carried over from
Column (a) to Column (b) of scoring sheets in all “ Telepathy
”
experiments at “ normal ” rate with Group I Agents ^ and J.Al.
Table XXXIV (p. 140). Precognitive ( + i) scores at varying “ normal
”
rates of calling.
Table XXXV (p. 141). Precognitive ( + 1) Vlean Scores for varying
“ normal” rates of calling.
Table XXXVI (p. 142). Distribution of number presentations over the
places 1-5 of cards in the box in all experiments at “ normal ” rate
between 24 January 1941 and 16 January 1942 inclusive.
APPENDIX K
Index of main subjects discussed in Introduction and Report (Part I).
Abstract, 35
Associated Words (cards), 45
Associated Words, experiments with, 53-54, 71
Agent, Mrs G.A., 59, 60 ff.
Agent, J.Al., 64 ff.
Agents, various, 59, 62-63
Agents, psychological types, 64
Agents, experiments with two, 60-62
Bergson, theories of, 25, 29
Bergson, theory of time, 27
Bergson, theory of memory, 28-29
B.S. (Percipient), 34
Call, the, 39-40
Card table and cards, 38, Plates III and IV
Cards, description of, 38
Checking up the score, 40-42
Clairvoyance, experiments, 49 ff.
Code, taking down the, 40
Collusion, discussion on possibility of, 83-84
(Counters), experiments, 37, 51 ff.
Cross-check, 44
Duplicate records, 42
Evaluation, methods of, 43-44
Falsification of records, discussion on possibility of, 86-87
Future experiments, 87-88
Gaze and Touch experiment, 76-77
Health, (P)’s, effect on scoring, 78-79
High scores, discussion on, 48
Influence of (P) on (EA) (special experiment), 73-75
Initial letter cards, 53
Initial letter cards, experiments with, 53, 64 ff.
Lift and Touch experiments, 69-70, 75-77
Metronome, use of, 45
Multiple-determination, 31, 65, 67, Appendix B
Non-random series, experiments with, 68-69
Normal rate of calling, 44-45.
Personnel at experiments, 37
K
15° [part
S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney
Pre-judging success and failure, (P)’s, 77-78
(PRN) experiments, definition of, 37
Rapid rate of calling, 55 ff., 65 ff.
Records, complete rechecking of, 86-87
Rhine, Dr, experiments of, 25, 32
Rhine, experiments, S.G.S.’s repetition of, 30
Scoring Sheets, 38, Plate II
Signalling, discussion on possibility of, 80-82
Slow rate of calling, 58-59
S.P.R. rootns, experiments at, 75-77
Specious present, Saltmarsh’s theory of, 28
Statistical method, the, 42-43
Studio and ante-room, B.S.’s, 37, Plate I
Suggestion, influence of, on (P)’s calling, 47-48, 55
Time, theories of, 25-28
Witnesses, testimony of, 80 ff.
Zener cards, 25, 33
Zener cards, experiment with, 73
rr
jAce
ot*
T
«»(fr
cocNinoNs.
I
APPENDIX L
GRAPHS SHOWING percentages OF TRUE COGNITIONS ON DIFFERENT OATES.
EXPLANATIONS'.- ACEi^ (R-E.) =
Normal rate (+0 cognitions.
RAPID RATE (+2) Cognition s.
AGENT (C A )
— moemal rate (+1) COGNITIONS.
AGENT (J.A-Q — 1 .
NORMAL RATE (1-0 cognitions.
•
^ a NORMAL RATE (-1) COCNITIOMS.
—X- X = Rapid rate (+2) cognitions.
— 0 = rapid rate (-2) cognitions
1941 1943
1942
15° [part
S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney
Pre-jiidging success and failure, (P)’s, 77-78
(PRN) experiments, definition of, 37
Rapid rate of calling, 55 ff., 65 ff.
Records, complete rechecking of, 86-87
r
16?] H. F. Saltmarsh 151
OBITUARY
Mr H. F. Saltmarsh
The death of Mr H. F. Saltmarsh on 24 February 1943, deprived the
S.P.R. of a most loyal and valuable member who had not only made
important contributions to the Proceedings but had also devoted much
time and trouble and business ability to the financial affairs of the
Society.
Saltmarsh was born at Highgate on 16 July 1881. As a young man he
was engaged in a business connected with the shipping of cargoes to and
from the Baltic, South American and other ports. He was compelled by
ill-health to retire at an early age, and he was a semi-invalid for the rest of
his life ;
but he derived considerable benefit from the treatment of an
unorthodox medical practitioner whose death some few years ago was a
serious misfortune for him. Saltmarsh married in 1904, and he and his
wife lived for many years at Lynton. Mrs Saltmarsh is a keen musician,
whilst Saltmarsh, to his great regret, had little natural ear for music ;
but
he learned through her to love the works of certain composers, in particular
her own favourites, Beethoven, Chopin and Grieg. He had a strong love
of nature, for wild flowers and for birds and their song ;
and he and his
wife were able to indulge this freely by driving about the beautiful country
near Lynton in their little car. Before the war it was an annual pleasure
of the present writer, when visiting Mr and Mrs Hugo Mallet at their
house near Lynton, to meet the Saltmarshes and to exchange ideas with
them on congenial topics.
Saltmarsh was a man of wide interests and varied accomplishments,
both mental and bodily ;
and this, combined with his training in business
and his experience of men and things, made him an exceptionally complete
and balanced person. He was a skilful worker with his hands, constructing
in his workshop all kinds of useful and ingenious articles for the house
and doing most of the repairs which lesser men have to employ tradesmen
to do for them. He was a skilled and courageous sailor and an enthusiastic
fisherman, and it was remarkable that a man of his delicate health could
bear the hardships and dangers to which he freely exposed himself. He
not only sailed boats, but also built them ;
and the last of three little
dinghies which he constructed is still in use in Lynmouth harbour.
Saltmarsh had a high sense of his duty towards his neighbour. He
might have been excused if he had made his ill-health a pretext for
retiring into his armchair, but instead he gave unstintingly his time and
his financial experience to the service of the public and of individuals in
Lynton and the neighbourhood. In one case, which happened to come
to the present writer’s notice, Saltmarsh took great pains to extricate from
its difficulties and to set upon its legs a tea-shop which had good possi-
bilities but was in a poor way when he took charge. Anyone who worked
with Saltmarsh soon recognised his business acumen, his thoroughness, and
his extreme conscientiousness and high standards of rectitude.
In Psychical Research he showed all the qualities which marked his
practical activities. But here there entered another factor also, viz., his
152 Obituary [part
interest in philosophical questions. As a young man he had made a
considerable study of theosophical literature, and in later life he studied
and enjoyed the more austere reflexions of contemporary critical philoso-
phers. Two philosophical problems interested him particularly and were
closely connected with his work in Psychical Research, viz., the nature of
the human self and personal identity, and the nature of time and causation.
The former led him to ask insistently :
“ What precisely is meant by the
proposition that so-and-so has survived the death of his body ?
” The
latter became pressing in reference to his studies in the evidence for Pre-
cognition. On both topics he made suggestions which were ingenious
and stimulating, even if they cannot be accepted in the precise form in
'
which they are offered.
Saltmarsh’s two most important contributions to Psychical Research are
his Report on the Investigation of some Sittings with Mrs Warren Elliott
{Proceedings, Vol. XXXIX) and Report on Cases of Apparent Precognition
{Proceedings, Vol. XLII). Both are models of their kind. In the Mrs
Warren Elliott investigation two classes of sitting were held, viz., those at
which the sitter was present in person (“ Present Sitter ”) and those in
which he was represented only by a “ relic ” sent long beforehand in a
sealed package to the S.P.R. rooms and chosen at random by the note-
taker on the day of the sitting (“Absent Sitter ”). The records of each
sitting were annotated both by the sitter or the owner of the relic, as the
case might be, and by strangers who were asked to treat them as if they
themselves had been the sitters or the relic-owners (“ Pseudo-Sitters ”).
Saltmarsh then scored, in accordance with a system which he explains,
each record (i) as annotated by the real sitter, present or absent, and (ii)
'
the same record as annotated by one or more pseudo-sitters. In this way [
he tried to test whether the scores where significantly higher in the real ;
sittings than in the pseudo-sittings. Then he considered whether there
was any significant difference between the scores of real present-sitter and
real absent-sitter sittings ;
between the amount of correct post-mortem
and ante-mortem statements ;
and so on. Lastly, on the basis of his
findings, he draws some tentative conclusions about the psychological
mechanism of the mediumistic trance, about the functions of “ relics ”,
and about various alternative theories which have been proposed to account
for ostensible communications from the dead.
In the same volume (XXXIX) of the Proceedings there is a short but
important joint paper by Saltmarsh and Mr Soal, entitled A Method of
Estimating the Supernormal Content of Mediumistic Communications. The
essential problem is to devise a method of scoring such that true state-
ments shall get positive marks which increase with the improbability of
their being true by chance and false statements get negative marks which
increase with the improbability of their being false by chance ;
such that
the marks for a number of statements are additive ;
such that the most
probable aggregate score for a large number of purely random statements
is zero ;
and such that the standard deviation of various possible aggregate
scores about the most probable value is calculable. Mr Soal devised such
a method and it was submitted to Professor Fisher, who introduced certain
modifications. Saltmarsh applied it to score the results of certain of the
Warren Elliott sittings. Saltmarsh had to make assumptions about the
H. F. Saltmarsh
167] 153
antecedent probabilities of statements of various kinds being true. Since
then attempts have been made on a large scale to determine empirical
frequencies and substitute them for such conjectural antecedent proba-
bilities.
The Report on Cases of Apparent Precognition in Vol. XL1
1
is much the
best survey of the material which exists in English. It is admirably
arranged, subdivided, and classified. Saltmarsh was compelled to recog-
nise the occurrence of non-inferential precognition, and he propounds a
theory of an extended sub-liminal specious present to account for it. He
also considers in some detail the question whether the occurrence of veri-
dical non-inferential precognition is compatible with free-will. In this
connexion he uses a number of ingenious mechanical analogies. If, as
appears to the present writer, Saltmarsh did not carry heavy enough
metaphysical guns to attack with much hope of success the hardest of all
philosophical problems, he made a gallant attempt and he failed where
no-one else has come within sight of victory.
The cream of this paper is skimmed and served up in the very useful
little book on Precognition which Saltmarsh contributed to Messrs. Bell’s
admirable series of monographs on Psychical Research. He is responsible
for another book in this series, viz., that on Cross-Correspondence. This
is a triumphant exhibition of Saltmarsh’s powers of extracting the essence
of a complicated mass of material and presenting it in a clear and agreeable
form to the intelligent layman.
The three remaining papers in the Proceedings are of slighter importance
and all bear on the same topic. They are Is Proof of Survival possible?
(Vol. XL) ;
Some Comments on Mr Tyrrell's Paper on Individuality (Vol.
XLIV) ;
and Ambiguity in the Question of Survival (Vol. XLVI). These
are all theoretical papers, dealing with the vital question of what is meant
by the survival of a personality and what are the criteria by which to judge
whether such and such empirical facts are evidence for survival.
The above account of his life and work should suffice to show how
much the S.P.R. and Psychical Research have lost by Saltmarsh’s death.
Those who had the privilege of knowing him personally will feel that they
have lost a friend who was a firm rock of courage and honour and good
sense, and they will be inspired and somewhat abashed at the thought of
what he accomplished in the face of constant ill-health and frequent
severe discomfort. C. D. Broad.
Mr Saltmarsh joined the Society in 1921 and lost little time in taking an
active part in our work. 'In 1931 he became a member of Council and in
February, 1939, on the retirement of Mr Piddington, he was appointed a
trustee of the Research Endowment Fund, and kindly consented to serve
as the “Acting Trustee”, making himself specially responsible for looking
after the investments of the Fund and keeping the Fund accounts. When
on the outbreak of War our Hon. Treasurer, Admiral Strutt, went on
active service, Mr Saltmarsh also took over the work of acting Treasurer
of the Society. In both capacities his business training, his exact habit
of mind, and his keen and prompt attention to detail were of the greatest
service to the Society. He was, in fact, from 1939 until his death the key
man of the Society’s administration. All who have been during these
154 Obituary [part 167]
years concerned with the administrative side of the Society’s work have
very special reasons for feeling the loss of so highly endowed a colleague.
Professor Broad has referred to his high sense of duty towards his
neighbour and his unsparing efforts to be of practical help. He found
opportunities to help in many directions, not least in drawing on his great
experience in psychical research for the benefit of those who through
bereavement or other causes stood in need of sympathetic advice. When
discussing in our Journal and Proceedings the question of human survival
he very properly wrote with the detachment of a philosopher and scientific
inquirer, but this was not in any degree incompatible with a sympathetic
understanding of the personal side of the problems he had constantly in
mind.
I take the liberty of quoting from two very sympathetic letters which he
wrote to a friend bereaved by the war. “ I suggest that we are wrong in
identifying the ‘
me which I now recognise as myself ’
as the total true
me. The first of these two ‘
me’s ’
—call it for brevity, the superficial
me—is a composite being, largely composed of elements derived from the
physical body ;
it is ephemeral seeing that the compound will be broken
up at death and one set of elements, viz., the physical, dispersed. ... I do
not believe in the survival of the superficial me, nor do I desire it. . . . In
honesty, I must confess that I am not completely convinced that there is
any survival at all. I am inclined to think there is, but am not quite sure.”
“ If by what little I have been able to contribute to psychical research |
I have added anything towards arriving at a solution—and by solution I
mean not only the optimistic but also the pessimistic view—I am satisfied, J
but it is necessary to the value of any contribution to knowledge that it I
should be unbiassed. j
“ I hate dogmatism but I am so uncertain of the correctness of my j
opinions that I would never seek to persuade where I cannot convince.” 1
W. H. S.
