{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V49 1949-52","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v49_1949-52.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V49 1949-52","mylang":"de"}
. PROCEEDINGS
of the
Society for Psychical Resear
VOLUME XLIX
1949 - 52
(Containing Parts 177- 181)
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
31 Tavistock Square •
London •
WCi
The purpose of the Society for Psychical Research, which was
founded in 1882, is to examine without prejudice or prepossession
and in a scientific spirit those facukies of man, real or supposed,
which appear to be inexplicable on any generally recognized hypo-
thesis. The Society does not hold or express corporate views. The
responsibility for both the facts and the reasoning in papers published
in the Pvoceedings rests entirely with their authors.
The Council desire that material printed in the Society's publications
shall be put to the fullest possible use by students of psychical research.
Permission to reproduce or translate material published in this Journal
must, however, lirst be obtained from the Society and from the author.
Applications should be addressed to the Editor in the first instance.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
CONTENTS
PART 177
Psychical Research and Personality. Presidential Address
BY Professor Gardner Murphy ----- i
Experimental Object-reading : A critical Review of the
WORK of Dr J. Hettinger. By Christopher Scott - 16
'Matter, Mind and Meaning'. By W. Whately Carington.
Reviewed by Professor C. D. Broad - - - - 51
PART 178
Obituary : Miss Isabel Newton - - - - - - 53
The Experimental Evidence for PK and Precognition. By
C. W. K. Mundle ------- 61
Immanuel Kant and Psychical Research. By C. D. Broad 79
A FURTHER Test for Survival. By T. E. Wood - - - 105
PART 179
A Report on an Experiment on Psycho-kinesis with Dice,
and a Discussion of Psychological Factors favouring
Success. By Robert H. Thouless - - - - 107
PART 180
Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception. Presidential
Address by Dr S. G. Soal - - - - - 131
PART 181
Presidential Address by Dr Gilbert Murray, O.M. - - 155
Officers and Council for 1952 ------ 171
List of Members - - - - - - - - -172
Index to Vol. XLIX -------- 197
355453
iii
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
PART 177
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND PERSONALITY
By Professor Gardner Murphy
Presidential Address delivered at a General Meeting of the Society
on June 8th 1949.
I CANNOT tell you how deeply grateful I am for the privilege of being here,
and of this more intimate association with the work of the Society for
Psychical Research, which has always meant so much to me. I should like
to use the opportunity which this occasion offers me to share with you
some thoughts about the relation between the study of personality and
the inquiries with which we in psychical research are concerned, in the
hope that each may illuminate the other.
The term " personality " is used in two senses. In Mr Tyrrell's stimu-
lating volume. The Personality of Man,^ our chief concern is with person-
ality considered generically ; that is, with those attributes which belong
to personality as such, and not simply to certain individual persons here
and there. On the other hand, the term personality is also used to mean
individuality : to denote not the property of being a person as such, but
the distinctive properties by which one person is differentiated from
another. In the feeling that both uses of the term are warranted, we shall
try to relate psychical research to personality in general, and also to
individuality, as expressed in specific paranormal gifts which belong to
some individuals and not to others.
I
We must still begin, I believe, with Frederic Myers's^ conception that
every personality is an integration of which only a limited portion appears
at the conscious level. Personality is a system of energies which may
throw up to its surface certain visible forms—specific cravings, or images
or thoughts—but which is not in essence contained by the boundaries of
explicit consciousness.
It is doubtful, of course, whether Myers's original conception of a rather
sharp line of demarcation between supraliminal and subliminal can today
be maintained. It has appeared more and more that personality is a matter
of shadings or gradations, not only with respect to consciousness or degree
of organization, but with respect to almost every aspect of its being. From
^ Pelican Books, 1947.
^ Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death, 1903.
A I
2 Gardner Murphy [Part
this point of view we should have to say that supraliminal and subliminal
processes appear to be essentially alike in most respects. There is,
nevertheless, one basic sense in which Myers's conception has been
vindicated by recent research, namely through the evidence that the
conscious portion of our make-up may forcibly inhibit the operation of
subliminal activities, including the operation of those paranormal powers
with which psychical research is concerned. Of course it is not necessarily
true that the subliminal has powers which the conscious can never realize.
Yet the fact remains that for most people living in a civilization like ours,
conscious intelligence is pretty well saturated with fears or resistances
relating to the paranormal in general or to the paranormal in specific
forms, and that this resistance may operate to make the subliminal less
effective in the realization of its paranormal powers than it can become
when such conscious control is removed. It would appear that the facili-
tating effect which dreams, hypnosis, sensory and motor automatisms, as
well as states of " trance, possession, and ecstasy ", seem to have in
liberating the paranormal, may lie largely in the freedom from inhibiting
conscious factors. Though the lower degree of effectiveness of the
supraliminal in paranormal processes may lie in its preoccupation with the
immediate physical environment, rather than through any intrinsic incom-
patibility between consciousness as such and the paranormal as such, the
modern view would be similar to that of Myers in regarding the subliminal
of all human beings as endowed with paranormal powers with which one
ordinarily has scant commerce at the conscious level.
But we need a sharper clarification of the way in which subliminal
processes are set free. A convenient example is the Groningen experi-
ment in telepathy.^ A young student of dentistry, blindfolded, in a black
cage in a lower room of the university psychology laboratory, received
telepathic impressions from experimenters in a darkened room just above
him, tapping out with his finger the specific points on a board which had
been chosen by lot by the experimenters above. The feature of this
experiment that I would stress is that the man had fallen into a semi-
trance condition, a dissociated or abstracted state, and that this state of
withdrawal from active preoccupation with the outer world seemed to
afford the basis for his telepathic powers. It was, so to speak, the dissoci-
ability of this man's personality, the openness of his subliminal to impres-
sions from the experimenters, that made him so good a subject.
One is tempted here to use a hypothesis which has passed already
through many schematizations and which I will offer in a form suggested
by Warcollier.2 In this view we are concerned with subliminal operations
not only on the part of the percipient, but also on the part of the agent.
The hypothesis is that the agent's conscious desire to transmit impressions
activates a subliminal operation within him which causes a subliminal
response in the percipient, and is then able to relay the content of the
message to the conscious level of the percipient's mind. In point of fact,
Mrs Sidgwick's suggestion in 1923 about the reciprocity, the two-way
' " Some Experiments in Telepathy Performed in the Psychological Institute
of the University of Groningen," Compte-Rendu du Premier Congres International
des Recherches Psychiques, 1922, pp. 396-408.
Experimental Telepathy, 1938.
177] Psychical Research and Personality 3
action involved in telepathy, is compatible with this view ; she writes :
" . . . I think the kind of union of minds, the thinking and feeling together,
here shown may be regarded as the type or norm of telepathic communi-
cation to which all other cases conform in varying degrees."^
We would then have the hypothesis that all human personalities are
capable of paranormal processes in so far as there is freedom from conscious
preoccupation with the immediate sensory world, and in so far as there is
some sort of reciprocity between the deep-level operation of two indi-
viduals.
II
Now let us face the question : is it true that all human beings have
paranormal powers? When we speak of hunting for a " good subject ",
the suggestion is offered that paranormal power is a special gift, like
absolute pitch. Is this the case, or is it in some degree the gift of all
human beings.' I confess that over the years I have wavered back and forth
between these alternatives : and have been very unsure how to answer
the practical research question : Is it worth while to set up experiments
for Tom, Dick, and Harry, or should we confine our experiments to the
gifted Tom, and leave Dick and Harry out? But it seems to me that after
these years of uncertainty the evidence has finally driven us directly into
the view that we are concerned with generic, and not simply with indi-
vidual gifts. Much depends upon the subtlety of the method, and the
devices that we use for reinforcing and bringing to maximal expression
whatever primitive and half-choked functions may be waiting for our
detection and cultivation. But many mass experiments have given posi-
tive results. In the Pratt-Woodruff' experiment of 1939, a large number
of subjects took part in a well-controlled experiment involving " screened
touch matching ", with no part of the observation dependent upon what
any one experimenter did or reported. Each subject had to match cards
against targets placed on the other side of the screen from himself.
Material was locked away after each session in boxes to which only the
experimenters had keys, and the data were doubly checked. In this
investigation, as in others before and since, the effect is clearly a collective
effect, and not dependent upon the performance of a few individuals.
It may, of course, be urged that a number of other mass experiments
have given negative results, but this I think misconceives the statistical
issue. The critical ratio of 5 which was obtained by Pratt and Woodruff
should not be expected to occur even a single time among all the large-
scale ESP experiments ever performed. It is possible either to get or not
to get a particular group phenomenon depending on the method used.
For example, in public health research one may find evidence of vitamin
D deficiency in a given North American urban group, or not find it,
depending upon the adequacy of one's technique : but if a competent
investigation finds the deficiency appearing generically in a New York
^ " Pfiantasms of the Living. An Examination and Analysis of Cases of Telepathy
between Living Persons Printed in the '
Journal '
of the Society for Psychical
Research since the Publication of the Book '
Phantasms of the Living ', by Gurney,
Myers, and Podmore, in 1886," Proc. S.P.R., Vol. 33, 1922-3, pp. 23-429 (quotation
is from p. 419).
^ " Size of Stimulus Symbols in Extra- Sensory Perception," Journal of Para-
psychology, Vol. 3, 1939, pp. 121-58.
4 Gardner Murphy [Part
population, it is not a sufficient answer to show that others working with j
other essentially similar populations but with a different method, have not
found it. It may be true that something happened in a group of human
beings at Duke University which could not happen in other groups of
human beings elsewhere, but it seems more natural to believe that there
was something important about the method. The Pratt-Woodruff experi-
ment does not stand alone. Whately Carington^ repeatedly found mass
effects. In the studies conducted at Stanford by Charles Stuart^ and
analyzed by Betty Humphrey,^ mass effects were found, and there are
many other examples. But I should be willing if necessary to rest my
case for mass effects on the Pratt-Woodruff investigation.
Ill
We turn to the individualized aspects of such data, that is, to the prob-
lem of individual predispositions to the paranormal which may differen-
tiate one personality from another. In Charles Stuart's'* method of testing
for clairvoyance a picture was placed in a large opaque envelope ; to the
outside of the envelope was clipped a drawing sheet upon which the
experimental subject drew his guess as to the picture within. The
positive results came en masse from subjects who were shown on the basis
of the Elkisch drawing test^ to be people prone to make expansive drawings.
And people who were prone to compressive drawings tended to miss the
targets to a significant degree. Humphrey*^ has suggested that those who
are expansive in the drawing test are people who reach boldly and vigor-
ously for a challenging hidden target ;
they are capable of overcoming
the obstacles and asserting themselves successfully in this task. The
compressives not only fail, but overshoot the mark in their failure. Six
different cycles of clairvoyance tests yielded these same trends. We have,
then, a meaningful relation between personality attributes and paranormal
performance.
The Schmeidler^ experiments appear to warrant the same general
conclusions. Her investigations at Harvard between 1942 and 1945 and
^ " Experiments on the Paranormal Cognition of Drawings, IV." Proc. S.P.R.,
Vol. 47, 1944, pp. 155-228.
^ " A Classroom ESP Experiment with the Free Response Method," Journal of
Parapsychology, Vol. 9, 1945, pp. 92-105 ;
" An ESP Experiment with Enclosed
Drawings," ibid.. Vol. 9, 1945, pp. 278-95 ;
" GESP Experiments with the Free
Response Method," ibid.. Vol. 10, 1946, pp. 21-35, and " A Second Classroom
ESP Experiment with the Free Response Method," ibid.. Vol. 1 1, 1947, pp. 14-25.
' " Success in ESP as Related to Form of Response Drawings : I. Clairvoyance
Experiments," Joi/rwrt/ of Parapsychology, Vol. 10, 1946, pp. 78-106, and " Success
in ESP as Related to Form of Response Drawings : II. GESP Experiments," ibid..
Vol. 10, 1946, pp. i8i-g6.
* See footnote 2, above.
^ " Children's Drawings in a Projective Technique," Psychol. Monogr., Vol. 58,
1945, pp. 1-31.
" See footnote 3, above. Refer also to " Some Personality Characteristics Related
to ESP Performance," Jotirnal of Parapsychology, Vol. 10, 1946, pp. 269-89, and 1
" The Relation of ESP to Mode of Drawing," ibid.. Vol. 13, 1949, pp. 31-47.
' " Predicting Good and Bad Scores in a Clairvoyance Experiment : A Prelimin-
'
ary Report," Journal, A.S.P.R., Vol. 37, pp. 103-10, and " Predicting Good and |
Bad Scores in a Clairvoyance Experiment : A Final Report," ibid.. Vol. 37, 1943,
pp. 2IO-2I.
1 77] Psychical Research and Personality 5
continued in New York indicate that subjects calling ESP cards, prepared
by random numbers and placed in concealment, can make paranormal
contacts with the material in a manner related t6 their attitude to the task.
Those subjects who believed it possible to succeed in such a task, gave a
significant positive deviation, while subjects who excluded this possibility
yielded a significantly below-chance score. The former group, the
" sheep ", in some sense know where the stars, circles, and so on actually
are ; but the second group, the " goats ", must also know where they are,
because they cannot consistently miss them unless they know where they
are. This latter process, sometimes called " negative perception ", has
been well demonstrated by Bruner and Postman^ in the ordinary, normal
process of sense-perception. Such studies suggest that a complex sub-
liminal process of feeling one's way toward the target is going on, and that
other subliminal processes operate to prevent the contact with the target
from appearing at the conscious level. The distribution of scores makes
it clear that this is a mass effect, not an effect due to a few individuals.
So far, the Humphrey and Schmeidler approaches are identical ; in so far
as attitude reflects personality, personality counts in paranormal perfor-
mance. Yet this did not seem to Schmeidler to be a sufficient clarification
of the problem. It was certainly not true that all believers could be
counted upon to score above chance nor was it possible from the data,
as so far described, to make clear how individual personalities are oper-
ating. As an experienced clinical worker with the Rorschach ink-blot
method, Schmeidler determined to do systematic Rorschach analyses of
those taking part in her current group experiments. Administering the
Rorschach test in group form, and scoring it by Ruth Munroe's method^
to indicate good or poor social adjustment, she was able to show that well-
adjusted sheep can be differentiated in their paranormal performances ;
likewise, well-adjusted and poorly-adjusted goats. The data thus yield
four groups, which score in the following manner : i. Well-adjusted
sheep score significantly high. 2. Poorly-adjusted sheep score about at
the chance level. 3. Poorly-adjusted goats likewise score at about the
chance level. 4. Well-adjusted goats score significantly below chance.
It is, she remarks, just as if each of the well-adjusted groups succeeded in
doing what it wanted to do—the sheep to score above, the goats to score
below chance.^ The two poorly-adjusted groups, however, manage only
to stumble and fall, being bogged down apparently by their own intra-
psychic conflicts, so that the sheep cannot score high, and the goats cannot
score low.*
This result was altogether " too good " ; and naturally she felt that the
* Bruner, J. S., and Postman, L. " Emotional Selectivity in Perception and
Reaction," Personality, 1947, Vol. 16, pp. 69-77.
^ " The Inspection Technique : A method of rapid evaluation of the Rorschach
protocol," Rorschach Research Exchange, Vol. 8, 1944, pp. 46-70, and " Prediction
of the Adjustment and Academic Performance of College Students by a Modifica-
tion of the Rorschach Method," Applied Psychology MonograpJu, No. 7, Sept.
1945, PP- 104 ff.
^ The goats, of course, if well-informed and rational, would aim at the chance
level, not beloiu it. In trying to avoid positive scores, they overdo it and miss too
many targets.
^ " Rorschach Variables in Relation to ESP Scores," Journal A.S.P.R., Vol. 41,
1947, PP- 35-64-
6 Gardner Murphy [Part
experiment should be repeated. Two large-scale repetitions have been
made by Schmeidler herself, with results in the same general direction ;
and now Mrs Adeline Roberts, another Rorschach worker, has indepen-
dently obtained corroborative results with a fresh set of Rorschach data.
This, of course, is not the same as to say that similar results can be
obtained by everyone with every group. It is enough, however, to indicate
that the data are not entirely dependent on the Schmeidler procedure alone.
We might summarize the results so far by saying that individual needs,
or purposes, bear a direct relation to paranormal cognition ; and at the
same time evidence that individual subliminal activities operate to set
free or to inhibit such processes. Perhaps we should say, as Hugh
Woodworty did, that there is continuous " blocking and unblocking "
;
a process by which the extension of ourselves in the direction of the target
is throttled and constrained, and likewise a process by which the constraint
is sometimes removed.
From this standpoint there arises the question : Assuming that we are
all motivated to reach a given target, are some of us more free than are
others to unblock, i.e. to remove these local blockages which seem to blunt
our paranormal capacities? For example, are some of us more free from
censorship, more ready to make contact with anything and everything
which is out there waiting to make its mark upon us? And are some of us
by inheritance or by training more loosely put together, more easily
induced to fall into states of dissociation than others? The more easily
dissociated individuals might be freer of blockages, simply dropping off
the offending baggage. This carries us back to emphasis upon devices
which make it possible for sensory processes, as in crystal vision, to exter-
nalize images which have been subliminally received, or to carry into overt
motor expression, such as automatic writing, the words or other symbols
which have failed of an outlet. Assuming that there exists in the subli-
minal a paranormally perceived reality, we may say that an automatism
is effective in accordance with its degree of removal from contact with the
conscious system of ideas. There are large individual differences in capacity
for such automatisms. There is, of course, no special virtue in automatisms
as such, and many of them are devoid of all discernible traces of the
paranormal ;
yet if once we have evidence that the paranormal is struggling
to express itself, we may perhaps help it on its way through the cultivation
of automatisms.
Sensory automatisms are rather easy to cultivate. And if the present
approach is sound, it is possible that normal everyday perception is in
some degree—now more, now less—affected by paranormal processes
operating through sensory automatisms, and that we might learn to detect
their effect. Thus a number of spontaneous cases of telepathy suggest
that the vehicle of their expression is the restructuring of present external
stimuli. Rorschach plates and other indistinct material as used in the
" projective tests " of personality, by permitting large individual differ-
ences in the form of perceptual organization, allow personality trends to
influence cognitive structuring. Just so, perhaps certain spontaneous
cases function essentially as projective tests. In a recent case the end
Further Consideration of Multiple-Blocking and Unblocking in Normal
Subjects," Jour«a/ A. S. P. R., Vol. 37, 1943, pp. 117-33.
177] Psychical Research and Personality 7
result of a death compact between two men took the form of the survivor's
noting, in a restaurant, a face which starthngly resembled that of his friend.
His friend, with whom he had long been out of touch, had in fact just died.
The stranger's face encountered in the restaurant had for the moment been
transformed ; had been built up to resemble, one might say, a death mask
of the distant dying individual.^
You will recall in Phantasms of the Living^ and in other collections, a
number of cases of this type. Our hypothesis would take the following
form : Other things being equal, those who are prone to sensory auto-
matisms are thereby prone to the distortion of their ordinary sense per-
ceptions through contamination by paranormal impressions. Likewise,
since automatic writing and other motor automatisms have in general the
same releasing functions, those most prone to such motor automatisms
would, other things being equal, be most likely to show an admixture of
the paranormal with their other motor activities.
If this makes sense, it may be worth while, in the study of extra-sensory
phenomena, to do some preliminary tests upon the proneness of each
subject to automatisms, both sensory and motor. As a reason for believing
that this is worth while, I would emphasize that in the cross-correspon-
dence group, and in other sensitives studied by the S.P.R., there is abun-
dant evidence that automatisms yield data which the conscious individual
cannot achieve unaided. Take the " one horse dawn experiment the
effort to convey a Greek phrase to Mrs Verrall. Despite the fact that the
thought was at various times in the experimenter's mind (both supralimi-
nally and subliminally) and available as the target for a period of months,
it was only through automatism that success was finally achieved. In
the classical cross-correspondence, "Hope, Star and Browning",* the
successful transmission to automatists in Britain of a message formulated
quite independently was accomplished through automatic writing in which
reference to Browning's " Abt Vogler " expresses a theme given in Mrs
Piper's trance.
But in setting up an experiment to test the relation of degree of dissoci-
ation to degree of success in paranormal processes, one notes the distinc-
tion made by Margaret Reeves^ between the conditions operating in
spontaneous cases and in experimental cases. In developing the implica-
tions of Kurt Lewin's topological psychology. Reeves makes it clear that
in spontaneous cases the type of dissociation which is operative is the
temporary removal of an outer shell or hull consisting of the daily pre-
occupations of the conscious, waking individual. When this outer shell is
removed, he withdraws from the world into sleep, or trance, or a state of
abstraction. There may then be a profound release of the deeper capa-
cities. In experimental cases, on the other hand, the experimenter must
employ relatively superficial motivation such as curiosity, or the desire to
gratify the experimenter, or win a prize ;
consequently, dissociation will
' " Cases," Jfoiirnal A.S.P.R., Vol. 38, 1944, pp. 48-52.
Triibner & Company, 1886.
^ Proc. S.P.R., Vol. 20, 1906, pp. 156-67.
* Piddington, J. G., " A Series of Concordant Automatisms," Proc. S.P.R., Vol.
22, 1908, pp. 31-416, especially 59-77.
° " A Topological Approach to Parapsychology," Journal A.S.P.R., Vol. 38,
1944, pp. 72-82.
8 Gardner Murphy [Part
have a very much less marked effect because nothing much is happening
in the deeper strata. But when the motives which are near the surface are
themselves activated, as in a furious and successful effort towards high
scores, nothing is to be gained by dissociation.
Indeed, if this is the case, some questions emerge regarding the logic
of attempting to test by experimental methods those hypotheses which are
most reasonable in relation to spontaneous phenomena. In the spontan-
eous cases, Nature often hurls at us profoundly moving dynamic forces
which we can only occasionally control in the laboratory ; and the attempt
to find in the general population individuals who will behave as if they
were successful recipients of spontaneous cases may be based upon a mis-
conception of the problem. In this matter of testing for ESP, I am afraid
that my colleagues and I have often resembled the bees described by
Samuel Butler, which wandered into the house through the open windows
on a summer day, attacked the flower designs on the wallpaper, and fol-
lowed them slowly to the ceiling. Then they began at the foot of the wall
nearby and worked their way hopefully to the ceiling again, and so on
across the room ;
learning, it would appear, rather little by the experi-
mental method of hypothesis testing. It seems likely that our attempts to
obtain positive results in telepathy and clairvoyance with the mass of
people is going to be successful only when we have fully analyzed the prob-
lem of motivation and of working atmosphere. I suspect that in many of
the successful mass experiments some favourable psychological factor in the
atmosphere was achieved, and that it is not worth while to perform such
experiments unless one tries to learn more about such atmospheres. We
know as yet very little about them. In Rhine's^ and Tyrrell's- experiments
the subject's enjoyment of the task seems to be an asset, and in Rhine's
early work the likelihood of a positive result was made so real and com-
pelling to the subjects that they felt they must " stand and deliver ". But
our present formulations are naive, and we have years of work to do before
we can define the favourable states for a given individual in a given task.
¥or if and when it is finally established that all human beings by virtue
of their needs and their capacity to free themselves from intrapsychic
barriers are capable of paranormal processes, it will only be because we
have in the meantime learned much more both about needs and about
barriers. What we know today is hardly more than the clue to a clue.
There is no direct evidence that the successful subjects reported by Soal
and Goldney,^ Tyrrell, Rhine, Martin and Stribic,* for example, differ
essentially from other people either in their needs or in the barriers to the
cognitive activities which express these needs.
If we ask, then, what more we must find out to do better research, we
might first stress the great complexities through which needs and barriers
evolve in childhood before they take the form revealed in adult personality.
^ Extra- Sensory Perception, 1934.
^
" Further Research in Extra-Sensory Perception," Proc. S.P.R., Vol. 44,
1936-37, PP- 99-166.
^ "Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy, "Proc S.P.R., Vol. 47, 1943, pp. 21-150.
* " Studies in Extra-Sensory Perception : I. An Analysis of 25,000 Trials,"
Journal of Parapsychology, Vol. 2, 1938, pp. 23-30, and " Studies in Extra-Sensory
Perception : II. An Analysis of a Second Series of 25,000 Trials," ibid., Vol. 2,
1938, pp. 287-95.
177] Psychical Research and Personality 9
One finds, for example, that childish needs undergo what Freud calls
cathexis, or what McDougall calls a process of sentiment formation. It
is not the needs in their raw infantile form but a complex and elaborate
pattern of needs that constitutes the going concern of the adult individual.
In order to work elfectively with the question of his needs, we should have
to know, so to speak, what the paranormal means to him ; what he sees
in the process, how he feels towards it, as it relates to the possibility of
making contact with the world outside his immediate orbit of experience.
We should have to know in what way he protests against the restrictions
of time and space ; the nature of his adventuresome challenge of an un-
known world. We must also know the specific meanings, direct and sym-
bolic, which are served by the particular content, the particular drawings
or card-symbols towards which he reaches out. In the same way, we
need to know very much more than we know about the nature of barriers
and their removal. It may be that in one person the mind is like a city
built on islands interconnected with strong and solid bridges. Dissoci-
ation would be like the breakdown of one or more of the bridges, and could
be overcome only by arduous reconstruction. Another mind might have
the easy dissociability of a system of drawbridges, with an easy-break,
easy-make, every few minutes or hours. It is almost certain that most
barriers are of a still more complex sort, to which psychoanalysis and other
deep probing methods have pointed. The paths of association or inter-
connection are criss-crossing lines almost like the lines of communication
in a military terrain : devious, complex, irregular, and subject to bom-
bardment as well as natural erosion, so that it would take a combination
geologist-map-maker-tactician to figure out the possible lines of com-
munication and of rupture of communication which are most important
in any given terrain at any given time.
This mode of thinking would suggest that great progress is to be ex-
expected from psychoanalytic studies. This does not mean that anyone
must accept any theory which does not intellectually appeal to him ; but
it means that deep-level exploration of unconscious psychic structures, in
all their infinitely complex dynamics, is a major tool for psychical research.
In this belief, the group of medical men and women, mostly psychoana-
lysts, who have recently constituted themselves the Medical Section of the
American Society for Psychical Research, have embarked upon studies
which may throw light upon telepathic dreams and other paranormal
processes which appear in their practice. This line of inquiry, initiated
by Freud'^ himself over twenty years ago, has been carried forward by
Servadio,^ Eisenbud,^ Ehrenwald,* Pederson-Krag,^ and others.
^ Neiv Introductory Lectures on Psycho-analysis, 1933.
^" Psychoanalyse und Telepathic, " Imago, Vol. 21, 1935, pp. 489-97.
^ " Telepathy and Problems of Psychoanalysis," The Psychoanalytic Quarterly,
Vol. 15, 1946, pp. 74-9 :
" The Dreams of Two Patients in Analysis interpreted
as a Telepathic Reve a Deux," ibid.. Vol. 16, 1947, pp. 39-60, and " Analysis of a
Presumptively Telepathic Dream," The Psychiatric Quarterly, Vol. 22, 1948,
pp. 103-35.
* " Telepathy in Dreams," British Journal for Medical Psychology, Vol. 19, 1942,
pp. 313-23, and " Telepathy in the Psychoanalytic Situation," ibid., Vol. 20, 1944,
pp. 51-62.
^ " Telepathy and Repression," The Psychoanalytic Quarterly, Vol. 16, 1947,
pp. 61-8.
lO Gardner Murphy [Part
More light on the unconscious may also be expected from the use of the
projective methods of personality diagnosis, not only by the group method
mentioned earlier, but by intensive analysis of individual predispositions.
Not only the Rorschach but many other methods such as free drawing and
painting, and graphological techniques, promise a good deal for the next
few years, in relation to the tangled skein of unconscious intercommunica-
tion between the various aspects of psychic structure. All of this is ulti-
mately directed by the belief that if once the complex blockages at an
unconscious level may be removed, one may move toward understanding
and control of the paranormal.
IV
This is, of course, a long-range goal, a matter of many years. But even
when all of this has been accomplished and stands in full stature before
us, I must confess that I believe that beyond both needs and barriers there
is a tertium quid. There is, I suspect, some supplementary principle, or
indeed, some over-arching all-encompassing principle. To introduce my
tertium quid, I will tell you the odd story of Lillian Levine.
Lillian Levine was one of a group of Hunter College women who came
to our laboratory in a group experiment under the direction of Mrs Dale.^
Miss Levine sat in an experimental room operating a signal set which
required her only to depress one or another of five keys, to indicate which
of five cards she guessed to be the target in a randomly prepared series.
In another room sat Dr Ernest Taves, who witnessed the experiment, and
Mrs Dale, the experimenter, with a deck of ESP cards, from which one
card at a time was removed and exposed as a target. Well, as Miss Levine
began a run, she got 15 consecutive calls correct. Since these cards were
set up by random numbers, and the odds of one in five remain constant
throughout the operation, it is about a one in thirty-thousand million shot
to succeed in 15 consecutive calls.
Hot on the trail of this bizarre phenomenon, we attempted to get some
sort of clue as to what Miss Levine had done. The most that we could
find out was that she had looked at the radiator in the room in which she
sat, and had seemed to see the various symbols, like crosses and waves, in
the rhythmic protuberances and recesses on the side of the radiator. So
far she was like the man who saw his friend's " death mask ". She had
not, however, been in any marked trance or abstracted state. In fact,
when she saw these images in the radiator, it did not really mean the kind
of seeing that one has with a crystal vision, but rather the kind of half-
seeing, half-imagining which occurs in responding to a cloud or a Ror-
schach test. We proceeded, of course, to give Miss Levine a Rorschach
test, and we wearied her a good deal, I think, with attempts to probe into
what happened. But we got nowhere. We did not find out anything so
very unique about Miss Levine's needs or intrapsychic barriers. Even
if we had done so, we should still be unable to explain how she fell into the
successful groove and how she fell out again. We are not in a mood to
say that such an amazing performance is "just one of those things".
Rather, we are inclined to say that psychical research is full of cases of our
1" A Further Report on the Midas Touch," Journal A.S.P.R., Vol. 37, 1943,
pp. 111-18.
177] Psychical Research and Personality
tertium quid, cases in which the maximum you can do with the theory of
needs and with the theory of barriers still leaves you with something big
upon which you still cannot get your fingers. For the point is that some-
thing new and difTerent happened suddenly to her—perhaps a deep-level
I
contact with Mrs Dale, perhaps a basically different way of orienting her-
self to her task. But what happened was not a gradual drifting away and
back ; it was a clean break with her usual procedure.
I have wondered whether the Shakespeare plays have not attempted to
tell us the same thing. Notice, for example, the pla^'^vright's handling
of Banquo's ghost. The phantasm appears suddenly, sharply—cleanly,
one might say. Macbeth does not toy with the question whether he is
suffering from a hallucination of the " heat-oppressed brain " ; he
screams :
" Thou canst not say I did it." When the apparition disappears,
Macbeth instantly recovers, exclaiming, " Why, now, being gone, I am a
man again! " The playwright, as if to reinforce his intention, has actually
given us stage directions : twice the Ghost enters, and twice " exit Ghost ".
One is not dealing in such instances with the normal waxing and waning
of human needs or of human barriers relative to such needs ; one is not
simply reaching out and making some sort of contact with the vast world
outside ;
rather, something is invading the individual, invading almost in
the sense which Myers used in Phantasms of the Living. The process of
psi-gamma, as Professor Thouless and Dr Wiesner^ name it, is action
not only by the individual, but upon the individual.
The exploration of the tertium quid seems to lead to a result largely fore-
seen by Myers and Mrs Sidgwick. This result, I believe, has the regular
characteristics of a new scientific idea in the sense that such ideas are
likely at first flush to be quite shocking ; then after a moment's catching
of the breath, they are likely to appear utterly banal, obvious, not worth the
point of making, and then third, as one thinks over the two earlier phases
of one's thought, one begins to say, " Well, this is after all a different way
of looking at things ; let us set up experiments to see whether one can
predict the outcome more accurately from the new formulation than one
can from the old."
So, for whatever my suggestion may be worth, I will suggest that the
third clue to the paranormal lies beyond the realm of needs and barriers,
indeed that it does not lie inside of human personality at all, whether in its
generic or in its individualized aspects. I believe, on the contrary, that
I
it is strictly interpersonal ; that it lies in the relations between persons and
'
not in the persons as such. If it be objected immediately that it must be
personal if it is to be interpersonal, then let me plead that there is all the
difference in the world between our stretching the conception of the per-
sonal to the breaking-point and on the other hand, our burning all our
individualistic bridges behind us, and saying that the world of interper-
sonal phenomena is a world which must be faced on its own terms ;
pur-
sued in its own right ; its laws made clear and recognized to be essentially
different from those laws which apply to individuals. I would plead for the
direct empirical study of the laws of the interpersonal ; the functions of
an interpersonal field. I suggest that it is not within the individual
" The Psi Processes in Normal and '
Paranormal '
Psychology," Proc. S.P.R.,
Vol. 48, 1947, pp. ly-j-gb.
12 Gardner Murphy [Part
psychic structures, but within certain specific relations between the psychic
structure of one individual and the psychic structure of another that our
clue lies ; or if you like, that the phenomena are, so to speak, trans-personal,
just as they are, indeed, trans-spatial and trans-temporal.
In this audience are investigators who have done much to confirm this
view, however little they may think of the theoretical interpretations I
would put upon their work. For did not Soal and Goldney^ tell us that the
telepathic gifts of B.S. were not liberated by all situations, nor by all
agents, but only under certain conditions, with certain people serving
successfully as agents and others utterly unsuccessful in the attempt?
Did they not clearly demonstrate that the powers were not the powers of
B.S., but the powers, so to speak, of certain couples—or, indeed, powers
expressed by certain field situations in which experimenters, agents and
percipients were all essential dynamic constituents?
Has not Dr Soal told us in his Myers Memorial Lecture^ about the ex-
traordinary phenomenon of divided agency? Mrs Stewart can receive
telepathically from two agents, neither of whom actually knows the picture
to be transmitted. One of them knows the spot where the target picture
lies, but not what picture it is, and the other knows what pictures lie at 5
given spots, but not which spot will be selected as the target location.
Here is a field function with a vengeance! This is indeed reminiscent of
the hypothesis off^ered by Mrs Sidgwick,^ according to which a sitter's
mind acts in such a way as to establish a relation between the medium
and a distant living person, so that the interaction of at least three person-
alities in involved.
This would mean that systematic, sensitive, resourceful investigations
of the personalities of experimenters as well as of subjects, need to be taken,
and of the interrelations of personality. I would like to quote here an
observation of Schmeidler's* made on the basis of one of her studies of
group atmospheres as they relate to clairvoyance tests :
" I should like to generalize from the results in some such way as
this : in a group which considered the atmosphere of the experiment
to be unpleasantly cold and intellectual, only the subjects who were
themselves rather cold and intellectual responded positively and made
good scores. In the other experiments a different atmosphere was
established, and a different personality pattern in the subjects led to
successful responses.
" If this generalization is correct, what are its implications? One
conclusion would be that my research does not show the personality
correlates of ESP ability as such, but only of ESP ability under the par-
ticular conditions of the experiment. Whenever the situation varies
widely from these conditions, we can expect the optimum personality
pattern to vary also."
^ See footnote 3, p. 8.
" The Experimental Situation in Psychical Research," being the Ninth
Frederic IV. H. Myers Memorial Lecture, Society for Psychical Research, 1947.
•''
" Discussion of the Trance Phenomena of Mrs Piper," Proc. S.P.R., Vol. 15,
1900-igoi, pp. 16-38.
* " Personality Correlates of ESP as Shown by Rorschach Studies," Journal of
Parapsychology, Vol. 13, 1949, p. 30.
i-jy] Psychical Research a?id Personality 13
If for no other reason than to stimulate discussion, I would go on to
urge that if some one other than Dr Soal, let us say Dr Q., had been syste-
matically scouring this country for gifted ESP subjects, using an equally
objective and severe method, he might have found that B.S. was a poor
subject, and that someone else, let us say, X.Y.Z., gave consistent, positive
results. Indeed, what did happen when B.S. was tested by a prearranged
telepathy method to see if he could get an agent's thought at the time?
He failed ; and it was only later discovered that he had his own way of
functioning in this situation, namely, with reference to the future and the
past. What about the people whose way of functioning we have not yet
happened to discover? Are they gifted or non-gifted, or is the answer
relative to the method? Again, forgive me when I say I am confused
when I hear people tell us that we should spend all our time looking for
good subjects. Can we really be sure that there are any good subjects in
an absolute sense? Individual endowment, like that of B.S. and Mrs
Stewart, is of the utmost importance; but the endowment appears in
relation to a particular task, method, and personal setting. It is true, and
very important, that B.S. and Mrs Stewart scored with several agents. It is
true that Mrs Piper and Mrs Leonard have exhibited brilliant powers with
many sitters. If what I am urging is sound, there should be found in certain
gifted individuals a great many " open lines " of interpsychic communi-
cation, so to speak ; but these are still dependent on a larger context.
Interpersonal factors released by the experimenters are certainly major
factors in such contexts.
One of the outstanding things about the Duke University research, I
think, has been the inculcation of certain attributes in certain experi-
menters which make it possible for them to set free something with certain
individual subjects. This does not mean that they can always set it free,
nor that what they obtain from one subject is the same as what they obtain
from another. But my mind goes back to the year 1934, in which I first
visited Rhine at Duke University, and saw the rugged force of the demands
which he made upon his co-workers and subjects. In the light of his
glowing intensity, it became possible to begin to understand the accounts
given in his book of the way in which he had driven some of his subjects
in the demand to get extra-sensory phenomena. It may well have been
this intensity which produced the results—including some of the best-
authenticated long distance results which we have in all this field. In the
case of Schmeidler's studies in clairvoyance I believe the results may well
have arisen from a very different kind of intensity, namely her sheer
unwillingness to let people fail. And it was, I am convinced, the intensity
of Mrs Dale's^ devotion to her first independent PK experiment, of which
she was so proud, and in which so much ego was invested, from which her
brilliant positive results emerged. Whately Carington's methods were
successful time and again with groups that he organized, and which caught
his spirit ; but no such comparable results have been easily obtainable away
from the white heat of his own brilliant personality. There must, of course,
be the fullest possible control whether the intensity level is high or low.
I doubt whether we can go on with the tradition that an experimenter
—
1
" The Psychokinetic Effect : The First A.S.P.R. Experiment," Journal
A.S.P.R., Vol. 40, 1946, pp. 123-51.
14 Gardner Murphy [Part
any experimenter—undertakes to test a subject—any subject—with a
standard method—any standard method—for ESP or PK. If an experi-
menter in the abstract tests a subject in the abstract with a method in the
abstract, experience shows that we can be pretty certain that we shall
have nothing to show for our pains. I am much gratified to note in the
most recent number of the S.P.R. Journal that Dr West has ably stated the
case for individualizing the method of testing.
But I am really asking you to consider a rather simple, naive, and dis-
turbing hypothesis, a conception which points not to the solitary grandeur
and rugged independence of personality, as we like to conceive it, but to
personality as a node or region of relative concentration in a field of vast
and complex interpenetrating forces, in which none of us is completely
individualized any more than he is completely washed out in a cosmic sink
of impersonality. Our roots lie between the personal and the impersonal,
between the I and the It, between the local and the universal, between the
present and the timeless. Here, one comes close to some classical concep-
tions both of India and of our Western tradition, which suggest the rela-
tivity of our independence and separateness from one another, and indicate
that the anchorage of our personal natures in the circumstances of the
moment and of the place may perhaps be considerably less absolute than
is supposed. Just as the field theory of Clerk-Maxwell has taught us to
think of the distribution of energy in a time-space rather than in terms of
little chunks of matter, so in psychology one may find it feasible to think
in terms of the field relations that develop to encompass and express a
group of persons.
^
Along these lines, we find a rich opportunity for closer cooperation with
psychology, especially social and clinical psychology, so deeply concerned
as they are with interpersonal relations. Much more can be done as
clinical methods and methods of research on social groups progress. This
is why I am in such full agreement with Professor Thouless as to the need
for an organic unity of psychology and psychical research, in which each
will throw light upon the other.
The moral effect of psychical research in breaking down classical dog-
matism regarding the limitations of the human personality to the world
of its senses, is beginning to be glimpsed here and there. And the methods
by which unconscious motivation, blockages to communication, inter-
personal dynamic effects can be explored in relation to the paranormal will
help us to understand psychological and interpersonal dynamics as they
appear in daily life. At the same time, we in psychical research owe a
great debt to experimental and clinical psychology. It has over and over
again given us new techniques for the study of motivation, of dissociation,
of unconscious blocking and unblocking. It has given us projective tests,
devices for studying atmospheres and interpersonal effects. Just as
psychology cannot get along without psychical research, so psychical
research cannot get along without psychology. It is even possible that, as
Schmeidler and Pratt and Humphrey have suggested, the same general
laws which hold in all psychology, laws relating to the structuring of the
world of perception, relating to the influence of motivation upon such
structuring, relating to the Gestalt principles of membership character,
lyy] Psychical Research and Personality 15
closure, salience, relating to the satiation of motives and the role of sub-
stitutes during such satiation, and indeed all the general psychological
laws may be found to apply perfectly to paranormal perception. At the
same time, certain laws emerging first in paranormal perception, such as
the ability of subjects consistently to miss targets to a significant degree,
later emerge in normal perception.
It is possible, in short, that the two worlds are one except for some
single principle which, so to speak, throws on a particular switch. If this
should prove to be the case, our attention might ultimately be directed to
the nature of this switch. It is also possible that the three clues suggested,
namely, unconscious motivation, dissociation, and interpersonal organiza-
tion or field relationships may prove to be all that is needed. It is quite
possible that if we can state the interpersonal structure of a situation so
ifully that its motivational dynamics and its intrapsychic and interpsychic
barriers can be fully defined, we shall be able to state when and where a
particular paranormal process will appear. At any rate, I would suggest
the experiment of looking upon personality as the same subject matter
whether it happens to be studied by psychologists or by psychical resear-
chers ; that we regard the paranormal as emerging from lawful and ulti-
mately intelligible factors operative within normal personalities ; that we
regard psychical research and general psychology as interpenetrating and
'
at times fusing, and always sharing outlooks and methods ; and finally,
: since all psychological phenomena are to some degree individualized, that
we make the most of all of those methods by which individuality may be
studied with a view of trying to understand individual paranormal gifts ;
remembering that the individual with his marked gifts is never utterly
sundered from the less gifted about him, and that his special gift is in
some degree a function of that interpersonal existence which all human
personality expresses.
If this is sound, there is equal need in the coming years for two types of
research : first, a need to continue the exceedingly important studies of
those individuals who are highly gifted in specific ways, such as clair-
voyance or precognition, finding why it is that they fluctuate in the presence
of different persons and under different conditions, and setting up testable
hypotheses regarding interpersonal dynamics. Secondly, there is a need
for mass researches along lines in which the group atmosphere or social
climates can be fully specified and empirically tested. When one gets a
group effect, one would at once attempt to define what is operating ; one
would develop such clinical methods as have already been used by
Humphrey, Schmeidler, and others, and apply them mercilessly to all
participants, including oneself.
So, as my time draws to a close, you find me pleading for more study
of those deep resources of human personality of which Frederic Myers
I first made us fully aware, working in close contact with psychology,
psychiatry, and the social sciences ; more explicit recognition that psychi-
1 cal research has a huge contribution to make to an understanding of human
I
nature ; and indeed a willingness to consider the possibility, even in times
as troubled as our own, that we may do our own part to help find a sound
basis upon which to predicate the oneness of the human family ; its fulfil-
ment, through deeper interpersonal ties, of its place in its cosmos.
355453
li
EXPERIMENTAL OBJECT- READING* : A CRITICAL REVIEW]
OF THE WORK OF DR J. HETTINGER j
I
By Christopher Scott
j
ABSTRACT |!
In this paper an exhaustive analysis is attempted of the work of Dr J.
Hettinger on the experimental investigation of object-reading.
The first section deals with the work reported in Hettinger's book
The Ultra-Perceptive Faculty, in which a painstaking attempt was made to
develop objective control methods for demonstrating the existence of a
paranormal factor in object-reading material. These methods are closely
examined and a large number of faults both in Hettinger's use of statistics
and in his experimental design are found. It is shown that when the
statistical errors are corrected the results are still highly significant. There
remain, however, more than twenty methodological faults any of which
might have contributed to the positive results without recourse to the
paranormal. The data provided by Hettinger are inadequate to show
which of these sources of error, if any, contributed to the significant figure
obtained. The section concludes with the verdict that there is quite
insufficient evidence to justify the conclusion that there is any paranormal
factor at work in the results reported in this book, and that Hettinger's
technique for investigating object-reading is very far from foolproof.
The second section deals with Hettinger's book Exploring The Ultra-
Perceptive Faculty, in which a novel method of investigating object-reading
—the " pictorial method "—is developed. This book scarcely attempts
to be of a scientific nature, since it relies on the technique of selecting a
number of the most striking coincidences from a total collection of
unspecified size. An attempt is made in this section to estimate the size
of this selection factor and to show how highly misleading is this method
of presenting the evidence. The conclusion is reached that only an objec-
tive control technique can put the " pictorial method " on a scientific
footing.
The third section deals with an article by Hettinger in the Journal of the
American S.P.R., in which an attempt is made to demonstrate trans-
atlantic telepathy by means of a control technique applied to the " pictorial
method ". Various control methods are described by Hettinger in the
article. These are examined in this section and it is shown that on the
only occasion on which a sound method was used the results were com-
pletely negative.
In view of Hettinger's suggestion that these negative results may have \
been due to the inexperience with mediumistic material of the judge
* The term object-reading is used in this paper to denote the (alleged) faculty of
using an object to obtain paranormal knowledge about its owner (or, occasionally,
j
about the history of the object). This faculty has often been called "psychometry", j
but the word has an alternative and well-established meaning in psychology, and is
"
so inappropriate tnat it has been decided to use the less objectionable term 'object-
reading '
in this paper.
i6
[Part 1 77] Experimental Object-Reading: A Critical Reviezv 17
who carried out the assessment in this particular case, the writer of this
paper carried out an experiment along the same lines in which a completely
objective control method was used and Hettinger himself acted as judge.
The results of this experiment were also entirely negative. The fourth
section of this paper deals with this experiment and attempts to draw a
moral. In the concluding paragraphs the possibility that the control
methods themselves might obscure or inhibit positive results is considered,
and it is shown that the nature of the control methods used render this
theory untenable.
Although this paper may seem almost entirely destructive in its content
it is written with the object of paving the way for the design of a totally
foolproof technique for the experimental investigation of object-reading.
Introduction
Dr J. Hettinger is an electrical engineer who, since 1934, has devoted
himself to a remarkably industrious series of experimental investigations
of object-reading. His reports of these investigations are to be found in
two books,* The Ultra-Perceptive Faculty (London, Rider, undated but
apparently 1940), and Exploring the Ultra-Perceptive Faculty (London,
Rider, 1941), and an article in the Journal of the American S.P.R. for July,
1947, vol. XLI, No. 3, pp. 94-122. Hettinger's work has attracted consider-
able attention. In September 1947 he read a paper on some of his recent
experiments before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science, and in September-October 1947 carried out a short experiment
in cooperation with the Daily Express. His work has also received fre-
quent mention in recent psychical literature.
The importance of Hettinger's work is not only that it forms one of the
most thorough experimental investigations that have yet been made into
mental mediumship, but also that it brings psychical research through
the pioneer stage in this extraordinarily difficult study. Like many
pioneers, Hettinger has had the unfortunate role of falling into traps in
order that those who follow him may know how to avoid them. If my
criticisms of Hettinger's methods seem harsh, it must be remembered
that it is only by drawing attention to his errors that we can get the full
benefit from his pioneer work and learn by his mistakes how to design an
experimental technique that is beyond criticism.
Apart from reviews of Hettinger's books in the S.P.R. Journal I know
of no attempt at a criticism or analysis of his work. This is a serious
deficiency, which the present article is designed to correct. I shall analyse,
as thoroughly as seems necessary, Hettinger's two books, his report in the
A.S.P.R. Journal, and two control tests he carried out with myself as
subject. Finally I shall attempt to sum up the conclusions that can be
drawn from all this work.
The reader who prefers to skip passages demanding mathematical
knowledge should not miss anything of very great importance, provided
he is prepared to take for granted the conclusions which emerge from them.
* Both now out of print.
B
i8 Christopher Scott [Part
The reader may be surprised to find, on one or two occasions in the
section on Hettinger's first book, speculations about Hettinger's exact
procedure followed by a footnote answering these speculations with a
definite statement given to me verbally by Hettinger. I have adopted
this arrangement for two reasons : first, the main text of my paper (except
for the last section, on some hitherto unpublished experiments) is intended
to stand as a criticism of Hettinger's published work ; and secondly, the
information obtained directly from Hettinger was given me verbally—in
answer to questions which I put to him quite without notice—more than
ten years after the events it referred to. For this reason I am uncertain
whether the same reliance should be placed on it as on the statements
made in the more ofiicial published account, and I have relegated the very
small amount of such information to footnotes (pp. 29, 33).
Finally, I would like to thank all my friends who have helped me with
this paper, especially Mr A. M. Western for many helpful discussions,
Dr West for his continued help and encouragement, and Mr Fraser Nicol,
who very kindly undertook some of the most laborious statistical work
for me. I am very grateful, too, to Dr Hettinger himself for arranging
for me, at his own expense, the two sittings referred to in Part IV.
Part I
" The Ultra-Perceptive Faculty "
/. Summary of the work.
The Ultra-Perceptive Faculty, for which Hettinger was awarded a
Ph.D. by London University, consists principally of an account of 12
series of experiments in object-reading carried out by Hettinger at King's
College, London, between May 1934 and September 1937. The essential
basis of the experiments remains constant throughout. Articles such as
wallets, pencils, rings, cuff-links, combs, keys, letters, and sometimes
blank sheets of paper, are submitted to Hettinger by his friends and
acquaintances, or by their friends and acquaintances, and enclosed in
sealed envelopes. They are then given by Hettinger to a medium or
" sensitive " who gives readings on them {i.e. attempted descriptions of
their owners) in Hettinger's presence and without removing them from
their envelopes. These readings are recorded by Hettinger and returned
to the owners for annotation. The 12 series of experiments described
in The Ultra-Perceptive Faculty constitute successive attempts to find
improved methods of experimenting on this basic method in order to arrive
at a technique producing results which are at the same time favourable
and valid.
Before the experiments are described in detail a note on terminology
would perhaps be useful.
The article is the object submitted for object-reading.
The subject (" absent sitter ") is the owner of the article.
An item is a statement made by the medium relating to the subject.
A reading is the collection of items given on a single object at one
sitting. (A sitting in Hettinger's work usually elicits from 4 to 6 readings
and from 40 to 100 items.)
177] Experimental Object-Reading : A Critical Review 19
A test consists of the object-reading of one article, and hence provides
one reading.
A record consists of a list of items (usually including control or dummy
items) sent out to a subject for annotation {i.e. for marking which apply
and which do not).
The 12 series described in the book use a variety of methods, and the
whole forms a rather heterogeneous mass of material, so that it is impos-
sible to describe it more briefly than by reproducing Hettinger's own
summary (Chap. X, Section IV).*
" The methods used in the preliminary tests (ist Series) were of
tentative character. They were as follows :
" I. A ^multiple control' method, according to which copies of all
records (generally four) obtained at one sitting were given to the four
subjects and each one had to select the one he or she thought would be the
most applicable one to him or her. Since a good many applicable items
appeared on all the records, the subjects found it difficult to make a proper
selection.
" 2. A 'made-up control' method, according to which the record given
by the sensitive was coupled with a '
made-up control '
record. The
experimenter did not find it convenient, nor easy, to make-up such a
record, and he also thought the method would be open to serious criticism,
even if such record were made-up by another person than himself.
" 3. A combined method of '
made-up control ' and '
evaluated '
items,
which diff'ered from 2, in that the items were given different values. The
drawback of this method is the arbitrary nature of the evaluation.
"4. A '
checking '
method, according to which the owner of the object
on which the record was obtained filled in the record, and a number of
other subjects were then asked to state which of the items on that record
were applicable to them.
" The latter method, which seemed promising, was adopted for statis-
tical purposes in the 2nd Series of tests. However, the series was soon
discontinued in view of the results of a reliability test. This test showed
that the high scoring obtained in that series had an easy psychological
explanation, namely, the tendency of some of the subjects to accept more
items on the record they knew was theirs than on the records which they
knew did not belong to them.
" There followed a short 3rd Series, wherein the checking method was
retained with the modification that each subject was asked to fill in all the
records obtained at the same sitting, without being told which one was
his or hers. This method, which is very similar to the tentative '
multiple
control '
method above referred to, had the drawback that, since the
subjects knew that only one record was theirs, yet all of them contained
applicable items, there was a great tendency to guessing in the case of
some of them, so that, by deciding that one of the records was theirs, a
definite bias was introduced in their annotations of all the records as a
whole.
* My thanks are due to Dr Hettinger and to Messrs Rider & Co. for permission
to reproduce this extract. I have made a few minor alterations to bring Hettinger's
terminology into line with my own.
20 Christopher Scott [Part
" The statistical proof of the probable existence of the ultra-perceptive
faculty was solely based on the control methods which followed. These were :
" I. The method of admixed control items (4th Series), according to which
twelve items given by the sensitive were mixed with twelve '
control
'
items, and the subject had to state which of the items were applicable to
him and which were not. The control items were drawn from a '
guess-
box '
which contained the items given by the sensitive in connection with
previous records.
" This method, like all the variations that followed, has the advantage
that the character of the results obtained is independent of the tendency
of the subjects to accept a small or a great number of items, being deter-
mined by the ratio of the items R : W [Right : Wrong] accepted from among
the items given by the sensitive and the control items respectively.
" The method proved satisfactory and reliable, but the experimenter
thought an improvement thereon could be secured by dispensing with the
'
guess-box '
and introducing the following modification.
" 2. The method of selection by mutual consultation (5th Series). Accord-
ing to this method the items given to two subjects were intermixed on one
record, and both were asked to cooperate and decide between them which
items were more applicable to the one and which to the other. This
method, which the experimenter still considers a good one, was aban-
doned for the following practical reason : he did not find sufficient suitable
subjects who could conveniently cooperate in that way.
"3. The method of selection by graded significance (6th Series) was a
further modification of the method of admixed control items ; it mainly
consisted in that the items given to two subjects in connection with their
respective articles were intermixed, and the subjects were asked to grade
their selected items according to their significance. The method was not
found satisfactory.
" 4. The method of selection of one of two paired records (7th and 8th
Series). Each subject was given two records—one being his own and the
other one a '
control '
record belonging to another subject, without his
knowing which was which—and he was asked to decide by general impres-
sion which one, considered as a whole, was his. The method did not prove
satisfactory, but it was decided to try it again in a modified form.
" 5. In a modification of the method just referred to, all items were
given in advance different values, i, 2, and 3 (9th Series). As the results
were not satisfactory, the idea of selecting one of two paired records was
ultimately abandoned, but it was thought worth while to test again the
method of evaluation [i.e. the above method of scoring an item i, 2, or 3
according to how specific it is] in a longer series, in spite of the objection
to its being arbitrary. This was done in connection with the next method.
" 6. The method ofpaired items (loth Series). According to this method
each item given by the sensitive was paired with a control item, and the
subject was asked to select the one which was substantially more applicable
than the other, unless both were equally well or not at all applicable, in
which cases they were both accepted or both rejected. The control
items were taken from '
guess-lists '
obtained by tabulating the items
previously given by the sensitive, in three separate groups, valued i, 2,
and 3 respectively.
lyy] Experimental Object-Reading : A Critical Review 2i
" It was, however, found that evaluation did not change the character
of the resuhs. In view of this finding, the idea of evaluation was aban-
doned in the subsequent series.
" 7. A modification of the method of paired items was introduced in the
nth and 12th Series, according to which the items were no longer paired
with control items obtained from '
guess-lists ', but with the items given
to another subject at the same sitting. The method proved to be very
convenient and satisfactory.
" Summarizing the above comments on the latter control methods,
(i to 7) employed for establishing a statistical proof of the probable exis-
tence of an ultra-perceptive faculty in connection with '
psychometry ',
the method of admixed control items, such as used in the 4th Series, and the
method of paired items without evaluation, such as used in the nth and
I2th Series, seem to be the best ones for the purpose in view."
In every one of the experiments in which controls were used the sub-
jects showed a tendency to pick out their own items rather than the
controls. The 622* readings obtained in the main series (Nos. 4-12)
contained 6,631 items. The number correctly selected by the subjects
was 2,570, while the number of control items selected was 1,913. The
deviation, according to Hettinger's calculations, is 28-6 x its probable
error, or 19-1 x its standard deviation, which is very highly significant.
At first sight these results might appear to provide overwhelming evi-
dence for the existence of what Hettinger calls " the ultra-perceptive
faculty ". A closer examination, however, reveals that the work is vitiated
by a very large number of errors.
The majority of these are errors of experimental method, whereby
Hettinger has failed to rule out various normal factors which may have
operated either to produce a positive result themselves or to exaggerate the
significance of any positive result obtained. Unfortunately we are unable
to deduce from the information provided by Hettinger which, if any, of
these factors were operating : we can only say that, with the given data,
any of them may have been present, and that the evidence is insufficient
to demonstrate that the results have a paranormal explanation.
A few of Hettinger's errors, however, are more definite than this : in
his use of statistics we can point to some clear mistakes and make a
correction to the results to allow for them.
//. Errors in Hettinger's use of statistics.
Let us start with two surprisingly elementary statistical errors.
First, the use of empirical probabilities in calculating the standard
deviation.
Let iS be the number of originals! and C the number of controls accepted
by the subject in a given batch of data.
Let A'^ = 5 + C be the total number of items (or readings) accepted.
• The table on p. 115 gives this figure as 623. This appears to be an error (see
below, p. 27, footnote).
t I propose to avoid much circumlocution by using the noun " original " as the
opposite of " control ". An " original " item or reading is one actually given by
the medium as applying to the subject who is annotating the record.
22 Christopher Scott [Part
In nearly every case the originals and controls are equal in number.
Furthermore, we may assume, for the moment, that the originals and
controls have exactly equal antecedent probabilities of acceptance.
Hettinger departs (quite legitimately) from custom by working with the
deviation of the fraction from its expected value of \, instead of with
the deviation of S from its expected value of \N. The standard deviation,
assuming a binomial distribution (see p. 25) is therefore given by
N '
where p, q are the probabilities of choosing originals and controls.
Now the correct procedure (as nearly always in psychical research) is
to assume the null hypothesis that only chance is operating, and to deter-
mine on this hypothesis how large a coincidence would be necessary to
give the results which we have in fact obtained. And clearly in this case
the assumption that chance alone is operating in the subject's choice
means that there is an equal probability of the subject's selecting originals
and controls, i.e. that p = q = ^, so that we have
a =
1
N 2JN'
Hettinger, however, for a reason that he does not adequately explain,
uses not the theoretical values of p and q but the values determined
S C
empirically from the results obtained, i.e. /)=-^, q=j^. This is incon-
sistent. Either we work from the null hypothesis and proceed as above,
or we base our calculations entirely on empirical results, in which case
S S
the expected value of ^ is not ^ but , and there is no deviation at all.
Hettinger calculates the mean theoretically and the standard deviation
empirically. There is clearly no justification for this.
Is X C
Hettinger's method gives a = y , which is always less than or equal
to the correct value, so that the significance is overestimated.
The error increases as the significance increases, but in practice it is
seldom large. (Incidentally, on Hettinger's method, if the subject gets
100 per cent success the significance of the result becomes infinite.)
By a rather similar confusion of the use of theoretical and empirical
probabilities Hettinger is led to put forward a very remarkable argument
which appears to imply that in every experiment where there is an observed
deviation from a mean, one is justified in doubling that deviation.
The argument seems to be as follows :
Using the same notation as above, ~ is the " empirical probability
for the controls " or the " empirical probability of coincidence ".
177] Experimental Object-Reading : A Critical Review 23
The relevant deviation, therefore, is the deviation of ^ not from \,
Q
the theoretical probabiUty of coincidence, but from ^, the observed
C
probabihty of coincidence. Since is less than \ by the same amount
S
that is greater than \, this means in effect that we can double any
deviation we find.
It is hardly necessary to explain the absurdity of this argument. Per-
haps the simplest reply would be as follows :
If is the " probabihty of coincidence ", what is
^? Presumably
the probability of success ; i.e. the probable proportion of successes is
^ . But the observed proportion of successes is Hence the obser\'ed
proportion equals the probable proportion, so that the deviation from
chance is precisely zero.
The argument is manifestly absurd, but it is a direct extension of the
argument used by Hettinger to enable him to double his deviation.
Of course, despite the absurdity of Hettinger's argument, it would be
S C
legitimate to use the deviation of ^ from instead of from |, provided
one used the standard deviation of this new variate and not that of the old
one. Since the new standard deviation, like the new observed deviation,
would be just Uvice the old one, this procedure would have no effect at
all on the final anti-chance probability.
A further statistical error arises in Hettinger's use of " the method of
evaluation ". In series 9, 10, and 11 an attempt is made to " evaluate
"
the various items so as to take account, in the statistical results, of the
varying degrees of significance of the items and to give more w-eight to
those items whose acceptance is clearly antecedently less probable.
Obviously such a procedure, if a valid statistical method can be worked
out, is very desirable. Hettinger's method is to score every item (originals
and controls) either i, 2, or 3, before the annotator marks it, according to
how specific it is. Items of a general character are marked i, specific
items 2, and exceptional items 3. When the subject has annotated the
reading, the total score on the accepted items is added up ( = A^', say) and
the chance probability is calculated on the basis of an expectation of
IN' and a standard deviation of JN'pq, where p and q are the probabilities
of correct and incorrect choices by the subject.
But this is erroneous. The expectation is correct, but the standard
deviation is too small and leads to an exaggeration of the significance of
the results. The correct way of applying the method of evaluation is a
little more complicated and has to take into account the number of items
put into each class.* However, as long as we use the correct formulae we
* If the number of items given the score, or " weight ", is n^, / = i, 2, . . . s,
s *
and if 2 n, =N, the correct variance for a binomial distribution is pq 2 «,^t)^^
24 Chiistoplier Scott [Part
may proceed as Hettinger does (or more arbitrarily if we wish—in fact
we may be as arbitrary as we like) in assigning scores to the various items
before annotation.
It must be admitted that Hettinger says more than once that the
method of evaluation he uses is arbitrary and that he does not consider it
satisfactory : he uses it, apparently, " only tentatively, by way of experi-
ment ". Although it is difficult to see what results of any value this
" experiment " could have—the trouble with the method, after all, is not
that it has no effect on the results, but that any effect it might have would
be illegitimate—it would scarcely be reasonable to criticize Hettinger on
this score. I would, therefore, not have mentioned the matter of Hettin-
ger's use of evaluation if it were not that, despite his repeated expressions
of doubt as to the method's validity in 1938, he uses the same method (or
one rather like it and just as invalid) as the ojily method of scoring in the
transatlantic experiments of 1945-6 (series i). It is therefore pertinent
to Hettinger's work as a whole to point out that the method of evaluation
which he uses is statistically quite inadmissible, and to provide the formula
which he should have used.
Another serious objection to Hettinger's application of the method of
evaluation is that the items are classed by Hettinger himself, who knows
which are originals and which controls. Since the standard by which an
item is judged to be " specific " is necessarily very arbitrary, it is clear
that this method is dangerously open to the influence of any bias Hettinger
may have. It would have been safer to leave the evaluation to the subject,
who did not know the originals from the controls, and to use a statistical
method which would make it impossible for any arbitrariness in evalu-
ation to give a spurious significance.
A rather more complicated problem arises over the question of whether
we should deal with the number of items which the subjects choose
correctly or the number of records in which they score higher on the
originals than the controls. Hettinger gives the results for both methods.
It is clear that the second is very wasteful, and therefore insensitive ;
but,
unfortunately, there are a number of objections to using the first. Consider
for example series 7, 8, and 9 where the subject is presented with two
separate readings, one original and one control, and asked to mark every
item as applicable or not applicable. If we use, as Hettinger does, the
straightforward method of adding up the number of original items accepted
and the number of control items accepted in all the records of a series
and dealing with the totals by the ordinary statistical procedure, we are
making the assumption that the items constitute a random population of
50 per cent originals and 50 per cent controls. In fact, of course, nothing
of the sort is true. The subjects know that the items of a given reading
are either all originals or all controls. A subject, therefore, who took
full advantage of this knowledge would not worry about choosing between
items, he would merely choose the reading which he thought to apply and
mark all the items on that reading as applicable and all those on the
and for a hypergeometric distribution (see p. 26) is
177] Experimental Object-Reading: A Critical Review 25
other inapplicable. In this way he would have a fifty-fifty chance of getting
all the items right—a chance which the straightforward statistical pro-
cedure applied to the items-scores would represent as more than 1,000 to i.
Both Hettinger* and Westf have shown in their studies of bias that this is,
in fact, to a considerable extent what actually happens. { Of course the
effect cuts both ways, and the objection is not that it leads to a spurious
positive result but that it causes the significance of any result that may be
obtained to be overestimated. If the effect were working at its maximum
and if there are 12 items in a reading, evaluation by means of the items-
scores assuming a binomial distribution would cause the critical ratio to
be multiplied by J\2, i.e. about 3-5. This would mean, for example,
that a result which is at about the i in 20 level of significance could be
represented as having a chance probability of i in a million million.
Potentially, therefore, the error is very serious indeed, so that in using the
method of presenting pairs of readings to the subject it is important to
avoid applymg to the items-scores any statistical method which assumes,
as does Hettinger's in series 7, 8, and 9, that the items are not grouped
together. Much the simplest and safest procedure is to work with the
number of readings correctly chosen.§
From the statistical point of view the substance of this objection is that
Hettinger has assumed a binomial distribution for the items-scores when
the grouping of the items into readings makes this assumption false.
The objection therefore only applies to series 7, 8, and 9 where such
grouping takes place.
There is, however, another reason why the assumption of a binomial
distribution for the items-scores is certainly false for all series except 10,
II, and 12. The variate with which Hettinger works is the number R of
originals chosen by the subject from a record containing n items, \n of
which are originals and \n controls. Now, except in series 10, 11, and 12,
where original and control items are paired together, the distribution of
such a variate is very far from binomial—quite apart from the point
raised above about series 7, 8, and 9. It is not very difficult to see why :
the binomial distribution assumes that the chance that the next item chosen
from a record will be an original is quite independent of how many ori-
ginals have already been chosen from that record. But this is clearly
false. Suppose a certain record contains 10 original and 10 control items,
and suppose that the annotator is in the process of considering the record
and has already accepted 9 items as applicable, and that every one of these
9 is in fact an original. What is the chance of the next item to be accepted
being an original? The binomial distribution assumes that it is an even
chance. But in fact it is a chance of 10 to i against, since among the 11
items remaining to be considered there is only i original. Thus it is in
fact much more difficult to get a very high score—or equally, a very low one
—than a binomial distribution supposes. This means that the assumption
* The Ultra-Perceptive Faculty, p. 46.
t Unpublished study.
X A statistical analysis of the figures for series 7, 8, and 9 indicates that on the
average this bias alone determines the subject's decision about the item in three
items out of every five.
§ Methods of dealing legitimately with items-scores exist, but as they are cum-
bersome and rather complicated they will not be discussed here.
26 Christopher Scott [Part
of a binomial distribution leads to an Mwd'f'r-estimation of the significance
of the results.
The correct distribution is called hypergeometric, and its variance
depends on the total number of items accepted as applicable from the
record being considered. If we call this number A, then the hyper-
geometric variance is \A {n - A)j {n - i). It will be seen that this is never
greater than the binomial variance ^A.
In Hettinger's data the number A is variable but averages about «/3,
which means that the variance should be reduced by about 30 per cent,
and the critical ratio increased by about 15 per cent. The effect on the
chance probability of this error of Hettinger is therefore appreciable
—and could be quite serious if the average number of items accepted
per record were rather larger. Thus it seems worth mentioning as an
important point to be noticed if any attempt is to be made to repeat an
investigation of this sort. However, the error is on the safe side and does
not vitiate Hettinger's method but merely detracts somewhat from its
sensitivity.
The correct (hypergeometric) variance can be worked out in every case
from the data supplied by Hettinger {A=R + W), and this particular error
corrected. In series 10, 11, and 12, however, where original and control
items are paired together, the distribution of the variate R, defined as the
number of pairs in which the right member is accepted, is truly binomial
(that is, neglecting other objections to be raised below).*
Since for the moment we are only concerned with purely statistical
difliculties I shall leave till later (see below, p. 34) the discussion of
further objection to dealing with items rather than readings. It would
perhaps be wise to repeat that in the above criticisms the objections to
dealing with items is not that one might obtain a spurious positive effect,
but that any effect one does obtain, whether positive or negative, may have
its significance exaggerated.
Another statistical error which operates against a significant result
should be mentioned. If one is classifying each reading as either a
" success " or a " failure " according to whether more originals or more
controls have been accepted from it by the subject, the question arises :
what should one do with readings in which the subject accepts equal
numbers of originals and controls? Hettinger's practice is variable. In
series 4, 10, 1 1 and 12, he puts these borderline cases with the " failures ",
but in series 7 and 8, he rejects them from the experiment altogether for the
purpose of evaluation (the remaining series are not evaluated statistically).
I am unable to understand Hettinger's arguments for these changes in
method, but it seems to me quite clear that the latter method is always
valid.
The same question arises over items, instead of readings, in series 10,
II, and 12. Here the items are paired together, one original and one
control, on the record sent to the subject for annotation, and the subject
is asked to mark each item Yes or No. Now in practice this does not
always mean that the subject marks one from each pair Yes and one No.
* The hypergeometric distribution is the special of what is known to some
psychical researchers as the " Stevens formulae " arising when there are only two
different kmds of target
—
m this case, originals and controls.
lyy] Experimental Object-Reading: A Critical Review 27
Often he marks both Yes or both No. Hettinger, continuing his practice
in the eadier series of giving scores only for Yeses, counts one right and
one wrong when the subject says Yes, Yes, to a pair, and gives no score
when the subject says No, No. Obviously a more sensitive scoring pro-
cedure would have been to reject all cases where the subject says Yes to
both or No to both and to deal only with the cases where he said Yes to
one and No to the other.
The procedure of not taking into account the borderline cases is equi-
valent to what is known as " free matching " in experiments with drawings
and it is difficult to see why one should not always take advantage of it.
By putting the borderline cases with the " failures " Hettinger unneces-
sarily squanders the significance he has amassed.
///. Summary of results with statistical errors corrected.
We have now come to the end of Hettinger's statistical lapses,* and it
would perhaps be helpful to give an interim report of the results with all
the necessary statistical corrections made. In the table on p. 28,
1. The standard deviations are calculated on the basis of the theoretical
probabilities, p = \, q = \-
2. Hettinger's " statistical correction of the results " which leads to a
doubling of the deviation is omitted.
3. In view of difficulties already discussed and another to be discussed
below (p. 34), the results for each series are evaluated on the basis of the
number of successful readings, and not the number of items correctly
chosen.
4. The " method of evaluation " for giving more weight to the more
specific items is not used.
5. The method of rejecting borderline cases is used wherever possible.
It will be seen from this table that, serious as Hettinger's statistical
errors are, they are not themselves sufficient to account for the results.
Correct statistical analysis of the material provided gives a figure which,
though not so high as Hettinger believes, is still overwhelmingly significant.
IV. Errors of method.
While Hettinger's statistical errors are, so far as I know, peculiar to
himself, his errors of experimental design are of more general importance,
for at least one of them is to be found in almost every attempt that has
been made at objective evaluation of the mental phenomena of medium-
ship. t A critical discussion of these errors will therefore have the
* Two numerical mistakes should also be mentioned. The figure 948 which
appears twice on p. 53 should almost certainly be 912. This increases by 1-4 and
1-3 respectively the two percentages which follow, but does not affect any of the
calculations. On p. 76, Table " F ", for the right selection (Rs) the number of
records for which i?/PF<i is 6 and not 5, and the number for which RjW =1 is 3
and not 5. This alters the figure for the number of right selections from 71 to 70.
The effect on the results is negligible.
t I can exclude only some of West's experiments (unpublished) in object-reading
and Hettinger's scrap-book method modified as described below (p. 47), though the
former seem nevertheless to be open to other considerably less serious criticisms.
However, both of these investigations produced negative results.
28 Christopher Scott [Part
Successes Failures Critical
Series " Sensitive
"* (readings) (readings) Ratio, X Probability, Pf
IT K 50 19 37 •0002
5 K 9 2 —
6 K 8 5
7 K 28 16 1*7 •oq
8 K 26 27
F 70 27 •007
Q K 4 —
F 6 2 — —
lO K 20 18
F 32 H 2-6 •009
II K II 9
F 40 19 27 •007
12 K ID 7
—
F 28 16 17 •09
Totals K 167 107 3-6 •0003
F 176 92 5-0 6 X io"''§
Total F and K 343 199 6-i|| io-«§
additional constructive function of pointing the way to the design of a fool-
proof technique in experimental object-reading.
We come now therefore to a consideration of some errors which are not
purely mathematical but depend, to varying degrees, on the nature of
the items and on the details of Hettinger's experimental procedure.
The central difficulty in the design of an objective method is to provide
controls which are exactly like the originals in every respect except that
they are not in fact originals. This presents considerable difficulties.
The following are the sources of error that have to be avoided :
1. The controls must not be systematically more specific, or in any
other way antecedently less likely to be accepted, than the originals.
2. The originals must not have some quality in common (such as sub-
ject matter, style, etc.) which the controls lack.
* Hettinger worked with two sensitives, Mrs F. Kingstone (K) and Miss F. Fal-
Jows (F).
t Probabilities less than -05 are usually considered " significant ".
X Series i and 2 are purely exploratory and do not make use of serious control
methods. Series 3 is a short one with only slightly positive results which do not
conveniently lend themselves to statistical evaluation.
§ These figures are not accurate.
II
c. p. Hettinger's figure of 191. About two-thirds of this discrepancy is due
to Hettinger's " statistical correction " leading to a doubling of the deviation.
The remainder is chiefly caused by the insensitivity of working with whole readings
rather than with items. A fairer estimate of the significance, based on items-scores
and not assuming independence of items, but not completely reliable since, in theory
at least, it requires the unjustifiable assumption of a normal distribution and one
which is not " faked " by the subject, is provided by Student's t test applied to the
differences between the number of originals and the number of controls accepted
from each reading. This gives a t (equivalent to a critical ratio) of 8-8.
lyy] Experimental Object-Reading: A Critical Review 29
3. The originals must have no observable connection with the article
"that the controls lack.
4. There must be no possibility of the subject recognising controls as
items given to him to annotate on earlier records.
5. The controls must not be selected by anyone who knows who the
subject is unless they are selected by a truly random method.
There is no evidence that Hettinger has made any conscious attempt to
fulfil any of these conditions except the fifth. Let us consider them in turn.
I. The possibility that the controls may be antecedently less likely of
acceptance than the originals arises in series 4 and 10, where the control
items are taken from the items given at earlier sittings. There are a
number of ways in which this might happen, {a) As the series of experi-
ments proceeds the mediums may become less and less specific in their
statements. Such a change is psychologically very plausible when we
consider that these no doubt rather tedious tests continued for nearly 3^
years, {b) Some of the items given by the medium may be related to
topical events or conditions. In this way the originals would have an
advantage over the controls. Thus if the item, " Been somewhere
recently where there was a heavy fall of snow " had appeared in a reading
given during the summer or autumn it would certainly have been rejected
as being a control, (r) The sensitive " F " was introduced in series 8. The
possibility arises that her success in series 10 may have been partially
caused by a tendency on her part to give items which are less specific
than those of " K ". Perhaps this would account for the greater success
of the medium " F ". {d) A further danger arises in series 4, 6, 10, 11,
and 12. In these series the number of items per record is fixed by
Hettinger. There are equal numbers of originals and controls on the
record to be annotated and the numbers of originals are :
In series 4 :
12
„ „ 6 : 8, 10, or 12
„ „ 10, II and 12 :
10*
Now Hettinger does not tell us how he managed to fix the number of
items per record. Anyone who has experience of sittings for object-reading
will know that a medium may give anything from four to twenty items on
different objects. Did Hettinger urge his sensitives to give more until
the correct number was reached? If so, might they not, once they had given
all they wished, resort to vaguer and more general items? In series such
as the 4th and loth where the controls came from earlier series in which
this process of " squeezing " the medium for more items had not been
applied, the originals might well in this way get a higher antecedent
probability of acceptance than the controls. And what happened when the
medium had given the required number of items and began to give more?
Did Hettinger stop her? Those who have experience of mediums will
be reluctant to believe that Hettinger could have done so while continuing
to hold her cooperation.f Did he cease to record the items as soon as the
* It is not entirely clear from the text whether or not the number of items per
record is fixed in these three series. However, from the specimen record on p. 89
and the figures given on pp. 88, 94, 103, 104, for the aggregate number of items it
seems almost certain that it was fixed at 10.
t Dr Hettinger has since informed me that this is, in fact, what he did.
I
3© Christopher Scott [Part j 15
required number had been given, or record them but discard them after- f
wards? This would have been satisfactory provided they really were: I
T
entirely discarded ; if they had been eliminated from the record sent out:] \
for annotation but put into the " guess-box " or " guess-list " for later ! tl
use as controls, the possibility arises that the medium might give more
specific items as she " gets into her stride " with each object, so that the jl
controls would contain a higher proportion of more specific items than the e:
originals and hence have a greater antecedent probability of being rejected, c
Or again, did Hettinger cut down the number of items per record by \
arbitrarily rejecting some of them? Clearly this would not be legitimate it
unless the method of selecting the ones to be rejected were truly random. | [
Finally there is the possibility that Hettinger reduced the number of items ]
by condensing two or more items into one without actually reducing the s
amount of material. Such a procedure would be dangerously arbitrary, !
j
and would lead to considerable possibilities for manipulating the results 1
—whether consciously or unconsciously. | ]
Hettinger's reticence in his book about all this is very unfortunate. '
The procedure of fixing the number of items per record is riddled with i
possibilities for error. From the account given by Hettinger there is no 1
evidence to show that these possibilities were even seen, much less j
guarded against. 1
{e) A further query arises over series 10. Here we are told that the
control items were taken from a " guess-list " made up of some of the
items previously given. It is natural to ask, which} Unfortunately
Hettinger is not explicit on the point. Whatever Hettinger's method of
choosing which items to put in the list it is important to know whether
his procedure might have resulted in items on the " guess-list " being
more specific than the average.
Again, this guess-list was made by tabulating items previously given the
values I, 2, or 3 in the " method of evaluation ". Hettinger does not
say so explicitly, but presumably the purpose of this tabulation was to
pair a control from one of these three classes with an original falling into
the same class. But whether or not this was the procedure it is certain
that Hettinger (or whoever was selecting the controls from the list) could
see which controls he was selecting, so that we cannot be certain that his
choice of the controls was not affected by bias. This difficulty was avoided
in series 4, where a " guess-box " was used, containing all the items pre-
viously given, from which the typing assistant drew the controls to be
used. !
2. Similarly Hettinger seems to have overlooked the possibility that the i
original items may have had some quality in common (such as subject
matter, style, etc.) which the controls lacked. This difficulty might arise
in series 4 or 10 where the controls, unlike the originals, did not form a
single reading. The possibility of style providing the clue to the originals
might arise with only one medium if her style were variable, but is more
likely to cause serious trouble where two or more mediums are being used.
In series 4, there was only one medium : in series 10 there were two,
though apparently (the text is not very clear on the point) the controls
"
were taken from series 9, in which there were also two mediums, so that,
assuming styles remain constant, the style of the " original " medium
177] Experimental Object-Reading : A Critical Review 31
would also appear in the controls, though only in about half of them.
The effect, therefore, is not very likely to be a serious one, though it must
be considered as a possibility. Subject matter is a much more probable
clue.
3. Hettinger attempted to rule out the possibility of normal deductions
about the owners from the objects by always (" with few exceptions ")
enclosing the objects in sealed envelopes. We are also told that " in the
case of one of the sensitives, most of the tests were carried out without
her touching the envelopes ". In view of the striking superiority of the
medium " F " over " K " when they are competing it is a pity that
Hettinger does not say which of the mediums this statement refers to.
This appears to be a case where Hettinger quite needlessly provokes the
suspicious reader, for in his second book. Exploring the Ultra-Perceptive
Faculty, he makes it quite clear that it was " F ", the more successful
medium, who did not handle the envelopes and " K " who did. In series
II and 12, we are told, neither medium handled the envelopes : they
" were placed on a table or chair and the sensitives concentrated on them
at a distance of about two feet ". It should be realised that though a
sealed envelope usually conceals the detailed characteristics of an object
it does not always—and hardly ever if handled—conceal the nature of the
object ; and a certain amount (particularly sex, age, etc.) can be deduced
from the nature of an object, especially if the subjects voluntarily submit
objects for experiment. Of course there is no need to suppose that the
sensitive is playing this game alone.* The subject, on his side, can do
much to help the results by picking out items or readings which seem to
him likely to have been given on the object he has submitted. (Even if
si he has submitted several objects he would probably know on which of
" them any particular reading was given, as the nature of the object is
t
written at the top of the specimen records reproduced in the book.
Unfortunately Hettinger does not make it clear whether this information
was provided before or after the subject made his annotation.) It might
perhaps be objected that this hypothesis makes rather unreasonably harsh
assumptions about the ethical standards of Hettinger's subjects. For mji
own part I do not think it does. From our point of view as researchers
trying to work towards the truth, deliberate sabotage of this sort does
perhaps seem unethical. But it must be remembered that, as Hettinger
says, the subjects were " of most varied occupations and temperaments,
including a number of King's College students ".j It is surely not very
difficult to imagine that many such subjects, having no interest in psychical
research, would regard the whole affair as something of a farce, but a farce
which presents a rather interesting puzzle to be solved. In any case even
if we assume that all the subjects were wholly well-intentioned, we have
ample evidence from Hettinger's own study of bias that a well-intentioned
person may behave in a way that would appear to the naive as deliberately
dishonest. Intentions count for little where the will to believe is strong.
* It is difficult when discussing questions of this sort not to seem to imply that
the medium is necessarily a conscious fraud. I must emphasise that (at any rate
for the present part of the discussion) I consider such a hypothesis both superfluous
and unlikely.
+ Series i and 4 each involved 63 subjects. We are not told how many subjects
took part altogether in the whole work.
'
il(
32 Christopher Scott [Pari
4. The possibility that the subject may recognize controls as such
because he has seen them before—either on his own records or on some-
one else's—arises in series 4 and 10 where the controls are taken from
items given on earlier sittings. Dr Hettinger has told me personally that
he did not consider it necessary to take precautions against this possibility.
While I agree with Hettinger that it will certainly affect only a small
proportion of the items, it seems to me that in two long series such as
these, involving over 3,000 items altogether, it would have been wiser to
have taken precautions to ensure that nothing of this sort could occur.
As things stand it is almost impossible to estimate the probable magnitude
of this error.
5. The condition that the controls must be selected by a random
method or by someone who does not know who the subject is seems to
have been fulfilled in series 4, where the controls are taken from a guess-
box, containing all items previously given, by the typing assistant. Pro-
vided we can assume the bona fides of this anonymous assistant this
method appears—at any rate in this respect—to be unexceptionable. In
series 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9, a " compensating " method is used ; the items from
a reading applying to the subject Sj^ are the controls for the record sent
to S2, and the items on this record applying to S., are the controls for the
record sent to Sj, i.e. and S., are sent the same pair of readings, and the
control for one is the original for the other. This procedure avoids the
possibility of any general difference in quality between controls and
originals, but it still leaves an opening for bias if the person deciding
which readings are to be paired together knows who the subjects are.
For example, if one of the subjects has red hair and one of the items given
on a reading not applying to him was " this person has red hair ", the
person making up the records for annotation could reduce the chance of
the red-haired subject selecting the wrong reading by ensuring that this
item does not appear as one of his controls but is allocated to someone
else's record. There is here, then, ample opportunity for bias to vitiate
the results if the originals and controls are paired by someone who knows :
f
the subjects. Unfortunately we are not told who did this pairing. In I
J
series 10 a " guess-list " of controls is used. Again, we are not told who 'i
selected the controls from this list. In series 11 and 12, the genuines are J
paired " with the items given to another subject at the same sitting ".
It is not clear whether this means that a true compensating method was
being used, that is, that each reading was used as a control once and once
only, but it is evident that where an odd number of readings was given at
a sitting this could not have been done by simply putting the readings
together in pairs. Unless Hettinger was taking great care over this point
—and he gives no suggestion that he was—it seems likely that some of
the readings were used twice as controls. If this is so, the method does not
completely succeed in ruling out, by compensation, the possibility of
there being a general difference in quality between controls and originals,
and is therefore open to the influence of bias. And even if Hettinger did
take care to see that no reading was used twice as a control, the method is
open to the same criticisms as were raised above against series 5 to 9.
In all the series except the 4th, therefore, we need to know : {a) Who
chose the controls? {b) Did this person know the subjects? To the first
'a
[77] Experimental Object-Reading: A Critical Review 33
question we find no answer in the book, though it seems reasonably Ukely
m that it was Hettinger.* If it was not, we have no answer to the second
roi juestion. If it was, we must inquire about Hettinger's knowledge of the
tk subjects. The evidence on this point does not seem entirely consistent,
liti Jut its general import is clear. On p. 75 Hettinger says, " Quite a number
M af the subjects were well known to (me)." On p. 172 we read, " The
11 sxperimenter, too, was completely ignorant with respect to the bulk of
rt items given, viz. as to whether they were applicable or not and in many
cm lases he did not even know the subjects." While on p. 149 we find, " A
iiJ subject who is very quick or very slow will almost invariably produce the
response (from the sensitive) :
'
I sense a quick vibration,' or '
I am in
bi touch with a slow vibration '. Many of the personal characteristics, such
il JS a peculiar way of laughing, of moving the hands, of talking, of sitting,
esi Jtc, are often imitated, almost to perfection." (My italics). It seems
'ro reasonable to take this last statement as a mild exaggeration and to con-
thi elude that Hettinger knew the majority of the subjects to some extent but
I anly a few of them very well.
01 In any case our conclusion is clear : if Hettinger chose the controls
ffl Ji series 5-12, there was ample opportunity for bias to affect his choice,
tt So much for Hettinger's methods of providing controls. In the course
til
of a necessarily rather tedious discussion I have proposed a large number
tl of possible hypotheses which might explain some of Hettinger's results
without resort to the paranormal. Unfortunately these all remain hypo-
theses. Perhaps Hettinger's most serious fault is that he does not give us
enough information to enable us to judge whether or not these hypotheti-
cal explanations have any basis in fact. All that we can say on the available
data is that any of these things might have occurred.
The relevant evidence on the criticisms I have made is all quoted in the
above discussion except for five specimen records which are provided in
'
the book, one each from series 2, 4, and 10, and a pair from series 7.
Unfortunately none of these comes from the more successful medium
F and only one (that from series 4) can really be said to be selected from
a group which gives significant positive results. This scanty evidence
throws further light on only one of the criticisms that have been made :
the possibility of a normal connection between the object and the items
given on it. On pp. 67, 68, we are shown a pair of readings, one given on
a wallet and one on a ring. The latter is a specifically feminine reading,
while the former might apply to a man or woman. This suggests the possi-
bility that the medium gave a feminine reading for a feminine object, and
that the female subject selected it and the male rejected it chiefly on these
grounds. But only one example cannot tell us much ;
this hypothesis
remains, like the others, unproved and un-disproved.
I shall now pass on to a few further criticisms before I attempt to sum
up the results of this investigation and give a verdict.
(a) We have already seen that mathematical considerations alone,
regardless of the nature of the items, make it inconvenient to base the
statistical calculations on the number of items accepted rather than on the
number of readings. We shall now consider a further objection which
makes this procedure unreliable. The danger is that the items of one
* Dr Hettinger has now informed me that it was.
34 Christopher Scott -
[Part
reading may not be independent of one another, so that if the annotator
sees, in a record containing originals and randomly selected controls, two:
items which seem to be connected he can infer that they are both originals.
When the controls (as well as the originals) come from a single reading
this difficulty does not arise, but another takes its place : if the annotator
now sees two connected items he will know that (probably) they are either
both originals or both controls, while two contradictory items must be one
original and one control. Now the statistical analysis which we would
normally apply to the number of original and control items selected makes
the assumption that the acceptance of each item is entirely independent
of the acceptance of any other. If the items are connected in the way
suggested above, this assumption is false. In theory it might be possible
for an annotator to group all the items into two groups. He would know,
that all the members of one group are controls and all those of the other
originals, but he would not know which group was which. Suppose he
makes a guess. He has a 50-50 chance of doing so correctly. Suppose
he succeeds. Clearly this is not significant. Yet if we were working with
Items only (and supposing there are 12 originals and 12 controls in the
record) we would observe only that he had got 24 items out of 24 right,
which is statistically highly significant. In practice, of course, the anno-
tator IS not hkely to be able to make such a successful division of the items
into two groups. But as long as we are unable to estimate how successfully
the grouping might have been made the safest procedure is to work as
though It could be done with complete success—z.e. to deal not with items
but with whole readings.*
Hettinger appears to have overlooked this difficulty entirely. There is
no evidence that he attempted to group together as one item items which
were clearly interdependent.
{b) In series 7, 8, and 9, the method was to send a pair of readings given
on two different objects to the two owners of the objects, to see if each
could pick out his own. A number of questions arise. In the first place
IS the specimen pair of records shown on pp. 67, 68, an actual copy of the
original records sent out for annotation.? The specimen records contain :
first a column of items ;
on the right of this a column for annotations by
the owner of one of the objects ; and on the right of this a similar column
for the owner of the other object. The specimen records are reproduced
with the subjects' annotations filled in. The first observation to be made
is that in the first specimen record shown, containing items given on a
wallet, the two columns for annotations are : for the owner of the wallet
on the left ;
for the owner of the ring, on the right ; while in the second
record, containing items given on the ring, the column for the owner of
the ring comes on the left, and the column for the owner of the wallet on
the right. In other words, in both records the first {i.e. left-hand) of the
two columns for annotation belongs to the true owner. I do not wish to
over-emphasise the significance of this fact. It may well be merely a curious
coincidence. But we must recognize the possibility that this procedure
« Of course the effect works both ways. As I have already said, the objections
to deahng with items are not that we might obtain a spurious positive effect but
that any etTect we do obtain, whether positive or negative, may have its significance
exaggerated. ^
177] Experimental Object-Reading: A Critical Review 35
may have been regular throughout these three series. If it was, the results
must, of course, be rejected as quite invalid. It is almost a certainty that
some of the subjects, presented, probably several times, with such a pair
of records, would make the deduction (or discover by trial and error) that
their record was the one in which their annotation column came first.
And even if they did not it is probable that there would be a bias (i) for
making such a choice, or (ii) for annotating first the reading in which one's
own column comes first. In the latter case the reader has only to consider
the probable behaviour of an optimistic subject in marking to see that we
might expect a bias in favour of accepting the reading first marked.
A second important question is, did the annotators work independently
or could the second annotator see what the first had done ? If the specimen
records shown are copies of the originals, we must presume he could, for
otherwise there would be no point in having tzvo annotation columns on
each record. Now if the second annotator can see how the first has
marked, there will be a very strong bias for the second to accept the items,
and the reading, rejected by the first. (That this bias was in fact acting is
suggested by the otherwise rather remarkable amount of agreement
between the two subjects in the specimen records shown.) If therefore
the two annotators are cooperating in this way, we must not treat their
choice as two choices, for almost always it will in fact be one. Since
Hettinger does not give us the necessary information to enable us to
discover when both of two subjects chose the same one of the two readings,
the only safe procedure is to assume that they always chose diflrerent ones,
i.e. that the bias effect on the second annotator was complete. On this
assumption we must halve the figures given by Hettinger for series 7, 8,
and 9. It also looks as though the same correction must be applied to
series 6—though it is difficult to be certain since the procedure is not
described very clearly. Certainly the correction must be applied to series
5, where the method used was to invite the two subjects to cooperate with
one another and pick out their own items only after mutual consultation.
The correction does not very seriously reduce the total significance of the
whole investigation. The critical ratio for series 4-1 1 is reduced from
6-1 to 5-6.*
(c) Perhaps the most serious source of error arises from the presence
at the sittings of someone who knew who the subjects were. It appears
that Hettinger was present at every sitting except a very few, and when
he was not, the articles were sent by post to the medium. Apparently
Hettinger was the only sitter and was his own note-taker. Such conditions
are, of course, hopelessly lax. We cannot begin to judge how many times
the medium may have changed her mind about a statement in response
to a change in Hettinger's facial expression, how many statements may
have escaped record, how many may have suffered modifications in being
recorded or in the transcription after the sitting when the rough notes
of what the medium has said have to be converted into separate, short,
* In applying the correction, figures for any one series which are not integers
must be rounded upwards. The presence of odd numbers in some of the figures
for series 5-9 is due to the disqualification of some of the readings for being
returned after the annotator was told which reading was his. The correction
as applied makes the conservative assumption that one disqualified reading would
have been always paired with another.
36 Christopher Scott [Part
independent statements. The possibilities are almost unlimited. It is j
only when the experimenter and note-taker do not know the subjects that I
we can safely assume these sources of error either to be absent or to cancel
out.
Can we assume, too, that the mediums never knew any of the subjects?
We have only Hettinger's bare assertion as evidence—but was he in a posi-
tion to know? Considering the length of the investigation such an
assumption seems excessively risky ; it would be extremely difficult to
maintain effective secrecy over such a long period. We must remember,
too, that the mediums were professionals : they must have known that
(the reader will excuse my bluntness) they had secured an almost per-
manent source of employment. It would be most unwise to overlook the
possibility of their gaining normal knowledge of the subjects.*
The complete absence of witnesses in Hettinger's experiments and his
failure (so far as we can judge) to take any precautions to prevent normal
leakage are both highly unsatisfactory and make it impossible for students
of Psychical Research unreservedly to accept his results.
{d) Another point on which Hettinger is most unfortunately reticent is
his procedure when subjects gave non-commital replies to items. Other
investigators have found that, even with the most explicit instructions,
there are always a few people who cannot be prevented from putting
question-marks, qualifying their replies, or accepting one part of an item
and not the other. The reader who has seen a mediumistic reading will
find this understandable : it is extraordinarily difficult to say " yes " or
" no " to every item. Hettinger admits (p. 35) that he obtained such vague
answers, but his only mention of how he deals with them is a statement
(p. 35), referring to series i, that in this series all such answers were dis-
regarded. The wording of this statement, however, seems rather to sug-
gest that this was not the practice in later series. Since it was presumably
Hettinger who decided what to do with a doubtful answer and since
Hettinger knew which were the original items and which the controls we
have here yet another serious opportunity for bias in the experimenter to
invalidate the results.
V. Summary of the above criticisms.
I find I have mentioned 33 separate possible sources of error in Hettin-
ger's work. Three of these are mutually incompatible, reducing the
number of errors that may have been present to 3 1 . We can tell from the
data provided that 6 of these have definitely occurred, and when we
modify the statistical methods to allow for them and for 3 others whose
occurrence is very probable we are left with a critical ratio for the 9 main
series of 5-3 (P— 10 ^), which is still very highly significant. Of the
remaining 22, 9 would apply to every series and 1 3 to only some of the series.
With so many possibilities there is little hope of making a very good
guess at which error or errors are likely to have most seriously influenced
* In this connection it is important to note that some of the subjects were
unknown to Hettinger, and that articles could apparently be submitted voluntarily,
without any request from Hettinger, by anyone who knew of the investigation.
The marked difference in success between the subjects, which is noted on p. 126,
is perhaps relevant to this and to some of the other criticisms that have been raised.
177] Experimental Object-Reading: A Critical Review 37
the results. My own opinion (though httle importance should be attached
to it), based on the consistency of the positive results throughout the 9
main series, is that the most important sources of error were probably
those described above under (c) and {d), pp. 35, 36, that is, those arising
from the fact that Hettinger, who knew who the subjects were, was present
at the sittings and also was the final judge of whether a subject should be
considered to have accepted an item in a doubtful case.*
It is very unfortunate that Hettinger would not allow me more than a
brief glance at his original material. If a thorough examination had been
permitted, I have very little doubt that many of the possible errors I have
mentioned, which Hettinger does not rule out by the description of the
conditions he provides in his book, could have been shown not to have
been in fact present, or at any rate, not to have seriously affected the
results.
As it is we can only conclude : that any of these errors might have been
present (though it is unlikely that they all were), that there is quite
insufficient evidence to justify the conclusion that any paranormal factor
was at work, and that Hettinger has failed, by a long way, to devise a fool-
proof experimental technique for investigating object-reading
Part II
Exploring the Ultra-Perceptive Faculty
Exploring the Ultra-Perceptive Faculty (1941) is a much more readable
book than The Ultra-Perceptive Faculty. It makes no serious attempt at
a scientific proof of the existence of the " ultra-perceptive faculty ", but
confines itself to a presentation of a number of striking coincidences
selected from an enormous mass of material. These coincidences are
both interesting and entertaining, but the possible role of chance is so
hard to evaluate that only the most daring psychical researcher could
accept them as serious evidence.
I propose to explain the method, to discuss some of the most striking
coincidences and their possible relation to chance, to consider some of
Hettinger's comments, and then to pass on to some of Hettinger's later
experiments, where substantially the same technique is adapted to control
experiments in which the role of chance can be estimated exactly.
The basic idea of the method which Hettinger uses in Exploring the
Ultra-Perceptive Faculty has a great many merits and ingeniously avoids
manv of the difliculties encountered in the more usual type of experimen-
tal investigation of object-reading. The possibility of normal deductions
from the psychometrised object is completely ruled out, the danger of the
sitter giving away information is very easy to eliminate, and the method
adapts itself very conveniently to control experiments in which bias has no
chance of vitiating the results. In addition, unlike many experirnents in
psychical research, the procedure for the agent (for this method is a sort
of compromise between object-reading and telepathy) is anything but
* It is perhaps worth mentioning that none of the subsidiary conclusions at which
Hettinger arrives are incompatible with the hypothesis that the results have a
simple normal explanation. (See, for example, those on pp. 38-9, and pp. 183-5.
Note that the former do not arise from control experiments.)
3^ Christopher Scott [ParT:
tedious, and very effectively ensures his normal attention to the material I
mstead of—as we so often get—either his bored inattention or his exag--
gerated concentration. In my opinion a proper control experiment based'
on this method is much the most satisfactoiy way of investigating object-
reading mediums—provided (and this, of course, is the real diificulty) a
medium who finds after one sitting that she has not had any great success
does not object that she cannot, and cannot be expected to, exercise her
faculty in this way.
Hettinger describes his new method as follows.
" The Subject is asked to obtain any illustrated paper or magazine he
fancies, but not to look at its contents until the prearranged time of the
test, when he shall start perusing it quite normally, without any effort of
concentration, marking on each page the exact time that page was read or
the pictures thereon were contemplated. Simultaneously therewith, the
Sensitive, miles away, and not informed of the actual nature of the experi-
ment, psychometrizes, viz. mentally concentrates on, an object belonging
to the Subject and submitted to her in a sealed envelope by the experi-
menter ;
the latter writes down the items given by the Sensitive together
with the time when they were actually uttered by her."
In comparing the sensitive's impressions with the pictures contem-
plated, a time-discrepancy of i minute in either direction is allowed. In
addition an item given by the sensitive may be compared with any picture
or article on the page being perused at the time, or on the page facing it.
It IS a serious fault in Hettinger's presentation of the experiments that he
makes no attempt to estimate how many pictures on the average each item
may be compared with. It is very hard to arrive at a fair estimate of this
figure. Four or five pictures per item would probably be a reasonable
guess.*
At any rate, using this procedure Hettinger finds a number of resem-
blances between the items given by the sensitive and the material being
perused at roughly the same time. A large number of these resemblances,
including 151 reproductions of drawings, photographs, etc., appear in the
book.
After presenting nine of the best of these resemblances (under the
heading : Cases of indisputably correct correspondence hetzveen the illustra-
tions and the sensitive s perception) Hettinger " submits that any one of the
examples above given is per se more convincing than a significant figure
in any statistical calculation ". This is an ambitious claim. Let us con-
sider what rational basis it has, and hence how reliable "
convincingness
"
js as a quality of evidence.
The total number of items given in the whole series of experiments was
6,576. We have seen that, on the average, each item may be compared
with about 4 or 5 different pictures. The total number of comparisons
that were made was therefore in the region of 30,000. Let us consider
the best (No. 9). The picture is one of a very large horse with the caption
" Biggest horse in the world . . . still growing ". The only other things
in the picture are the halter, the tassels made by plaiting the horse's mane
* In the brief glance which Hettinger permitted me at his originals I saw one case
of an Item which could be compared with 10 pictures and one case which could be
compared with only i.
177] Experimental Object-Reading : A Critical Review 39
and seen in silhouette, a man holding a rope from the halter and dressed in
a dark suit and a trilby, and a farmhouse faintly visible in the background.
(This picture is remarkable, among those reproduced, for havmg almost
no detail or other material than its main subject. Very often it is detail
or one of the less prominent points on which the resemblances depend.)
The medium's comment was :
" Some admiration for large cart horses."
The question we have to ask is, would one such coincidence be expected
to arise by chance {i.e. would its occurrence be at least as likely as not) in
30,000 comparisons? Even if the reader feels he can answer this with a
definite
" No " we still know only that the result is positive. For it to be
on the borderline of significance we must be able to say that such a coinci-
dence would not be expected to arise once in 600,000 comparisons, and
for it to be fairly strongly significant (say a chance probability figure of i in
300) we should have to consider 10 million comparisons. I find it difficult
to beUeve that anyone, however much he may dislike, disapprove of, or be
puzzled by, statistics can, in the face of these figures, agree with Hettinger
that this single resemblance is more convincing than a significant figure
in any statistical calculation. It is surely absurd to imagine that our
intuition can be reliably used to inform us that such a coincidence would
not be expected to occur once in 600,000 comparisons.
The point, of course, about Hettinger's appeal to "convincingness' —
or, what comes to the same thing, intuition—is that many people's
intuition can be safely relied upon to overlook the number of comparisons
from which the resemblances shown have been selected. While no
reasonable psychical researcher is likely to be taken in so easily, material
presented in this way must completely mislead those who do not possess
the habit of critical consideration of evidence. Hettinger, to have been
fair, should have emphasised repeatedly that the resemblances he produces
as examples are selected from a total of some 30,000 comparisons.
In my view there are about three other resemblances which are almost as
striking as that quoted (Nos. 31, 62, 137). In these the actual connection
is quite as good, if not better, but the pictures contain a good deal of other
detail and one could imagine a number of other possible items which
would have applied equally strikingly. The remaining resemblances range
from the good, such as the appearance of the word " dairy " once in the
item and twice in the corresponding picture (No. i)*, to the very far-
fetched, such as the item " peculiar noise going on here " given when the
subject was reading " a short paragraph concerning 500,000 cats
^
(Hettinger's comment is,
" A rather intriguing case of ' ultra-acoustic
perception.").
It does not seem worth-while to discuss the various supplementary
experiments that Hettinger carried out using the same general method,
such as
" association tests ", tests without articles, a " relay " experiment,
etc., since there is no serious evidence anywhere for the presence of
paranormality.
* In considering the extent of this coincidence, the question one must ask i_s
not, of course, " How many items can be expected to contam the ivord dairy t
but'
" How many resemblances as good as this can be expected m so many compari-
sons' " There would clearly be far more of the latter than the former, so that
to base an estimate on the former question—as one is tempted to do at one s hrst
approach—would lead to a gross overestimate of the significance of the coincidence.
i
4° Christopher Scott [Part
Before we leave the discussion of this work we ought perhaps to consi-
der Hettinger's own attitude to it. Discussing the question of control
experiments, Hettinger writes :
" The question arises, however, whether an extensive statistical investi-
gation of the magnitude of the writer's earlier experiments would add
anything further to that which has already been attained, viz. proof of th<
probable existence of an ultra-perceptive faculty. Judging from a cursory
'
control '
comparison between a few paired illustrated papers, as referred
to above, in the writer's opinion the only further attainment that could be
expected from the application of the control method to '
illustrated paper
'
experiments would be a higher significant figure.*
" On the other hand, he feels that the very frequent occurrence of exact
correspondence in substance and time during a one-hour test—the accuracy
of which correspondence is sometimes quite staggering, because of the
very specific character of the items perceived—is per se, from a psycholo-
gical point of view, far more convincing than statistics, which at the most
can only prove a probability. Indeed, the present experiments seem to
have a tendency that way, and, because thereof, the pictorial series method
which has been conceived may, more especially in view of its constructive
potentiality in further research work, be destined to supersede the statistical
method, now that the latter has fulfilled its main function, viz. in
establishing the probability of the existence of an ultra-perceptive
faculty. . . .
" The writer was prompted to make these comments because the method
was conceived, inter alia, also with the object of providing a means of
investigation which would carry conviction directly, instead of having to
rely on lengthy statistics undertaken by others and on what the investi-
gator and his critics may have to say about them respectively. Neverthe-
less, seeing that chance coincidence is also an indisputable possibility,
for those who may desire to investigate the matter afresh from a statistical
point of view the writer highly recommends the '
psychometric pictorial
series method '
used in the present research. As already hinted, he believes
that the significant figure of probability will be found substantially higher
than those which he himself obtained in his statistical experiments, in
which he had to rely on the memory of, and recognition by, the Subjects,
instead of on some definite means of identification."
Hettinger then goes on to oflFer a short control experiment of his own.
A number of objections could be raised to this but need not, for Hettinger
himself comments :
" Since the comparison [of the pictures with the medium's statements]
was made by the writer himself, who knew which was the ' right '
and which
the '
control '
paper, he does not wish the above results to be looked upon
as a statistical proof, in the sense of his earlier experiments. Anyone
wishing to repeat the present tests with a view to providing further statis-
tical proof, rather than exploring the subject for the purpose of ascertaining
further facts, will have to use a separate adjudicator, as above explained."
* Hettinger seems to have overlooked another possibility : that there might be
no further attainment, and no confirmation of the earlier figure. To argue the pre-
sence of paranormality in these experiments purely on the basis of the significant
figure obtained in the totally different earlier work is unreasonable.
177] Experimental Object-Reading: A Critical Review 41
The above quotations make a fair sample of Hettinger's opinions of the
purpose of the work. " Statistical proof" is not offered, partly because
it has already been provided in the earlier book and partly because " the
very frequent occurrence of exact correspondence in substance and time
during a one-hour test* ... is per se, from a psychological point of view,
far more convincing than statistics, which at the most can only prove a
probability ". The implication seems to be that, whereas statistics can
only prove a probability, intuitive estimation can provide certain proof.
This is an absurd claim. There are only two basic differences between
intuitive and statistical methods of estimation : one, that intuitive methods
are easier to apply ;
two, that their results are much less objective
and much less reliable. Intuitive methods are valuable for providing
pointers to what is going on and for suggesting possible new lines of
experiment, but they only have a place in a proof when the evidence is so
clearly and indisputably significant (and by " indisputably " I mean,
literally, that no intelligent person can or does dispute it) that their inherent
inaccuracy may safely be neglected. It is difficult to believe that anyone,
however personally convincing he may find Hettinger's results to be,
could claim that their significance is indisputable in this sense.
But we need not labour the point. Their significance is disputed—if
only by the present writer ; and where there is any disagreement we cannot
afford to trust our intuition when perfectly sound objective methods are
available. As scientists, therefore, we are forced to set aside Hettinger's
qualitative work with an agnostic shrug and pass to the study of objective
control experiments.!
Before we leave Exploring the Ultra-Perceptive Faculty, however, it
would perhaps give the reader who is not familiar with the work a better
idea of the quality and type of material that appears in this and later
investigations by Hettinger if we considered two or three examples taken
at random from the resemblances reproduced in the book.
We have already seen one of the " cases of indisputably correct corres-
pondence ". The next chapter after these is headed. Cases of obvious
correspondence with some addition or slight distortion. The first example is
a picture of a boat (perhaps a small liner) over the side of which hangs a
rope ladder. Standing on the bottom rung is a man in a diving suit
(connected by a pipe to the deck) tentatively putting one foot in the water.
Two men, one in a diving suit, are looking down at him from the deck.
The background contains only clouds and sea. The caption is, " How's
the water? " The medium's statement is, " Something to do with water.
I cannot move for water ;
something overflowed." Hettinger comments :
" The correspondence is exact, but the addition '
overflowed '
does not
apply. Maybe, the Sensitive vaguely perceived a man (the diver) moving
in the waterj and the pipe, which she inferred was an overflow."
* This seems to be a serious exaggeration. Hettinger makes no claim elsewhere
that exact correspondences are very frequent in one test.
t I have confined myself to consideration of chance as an explanation of the results
reported in this book. If the results had been really striking, other possible normal
explanations—in particular, perhaps, the possibility of normal knowledge by the
medium of the material to be perused by the subject—might have had to be
examined.
+ The picture shows him with only the toes of one foot in the water.—C. S.
42 Christopher Scott [Part
The first picture in the next chapter, Cases of correspondence as regards
sensations, feelings and emotions, is a drawing of a small dog with long ears !
sitting down holding a handkerchief to his nose and crying. The caption i
is, " Hector says :
'
I don't think I ought to try to be funny today.' " ;
The medium's impression is, " Something I want to test in my hand ;
using pressure too." Hettinger comments :
" Notice the one paw of
'
Hector '." (Hector is using one paw to hold the handkerchief to his nose.)
Perhaps one further example will suffice from those headed, Cases
which may seem ''far-fetched". Hettinger's view of these cases is that, '
although none of them is " per se sufficiently convincing ", they are, com-
pared with the more striking resemblances, " perhaps more important as
regards the exploration of this baffling form of cognition, with a view to
tracing its fundamental factors." The first example from this group is a
picture of a naval officer wearing a large macintosh, standing with a pair
of field glasses in his left hand and his right hand apparently in his pocket.
There are quite a number of other details. The medium's impression is,
" Someone has something the matter with the right hip ;
puts hand on
to be able to walk."
It will be seen that Hettinger's interpretation is always exceedingly
optimistic. As in his earlier book, the possibility that any particular success
may be due to chance is not for a moment considered.
I believe, nevertheless, that the average reader of Exploring the Ultra-
Perceptive Faculty will get the impression that the examples reproduced
could not easily be accounted for by chance alone. There is no doubt
that the cumulative effect of so many examples is extremely convincing.
But whether this subjective experience of conviction is due to the actual
presence of an extra-chance factor, or whether to the difficulty of bearing in
mind the very great size of the selection factor, the large number of different
things contained in one picture, and the variety of meanings that might
be attached to most of the medium's impressions, is a question which can
only be answered when we have before us the results of a properly designed
objective control experiment. It is a thousand pities that Hettinger allowed
himself to spend such prodigious amounts of time and effort on purely
qualitative experiments before such objective evidence became available.
Part III
The Transatlantic Experiments of 1945-6 i
Hettinger's first serious, published attempt at applying a control method
to his pictorial technique was carried out in conjunction with the American
S.P.R. between February 1945 and July 1946, and is reported under the
title. Psychometric Telepathy Across the Atlantic, in the Journal of the
A.S.P.R. for July 1947 (Vol. XLI, No. 3).
The control methods are by no means satisfactory, and the work is
described by the Editor as no more than a pilot study, so that it should not
be necessary to make a thorough analysis.
The experiments consist of 16 one-hour tests using the " pictorial ||
method " and the same sensitives as in all Hettinger's earlier work. Tests '
I to 9 use one sensitive at a time, tests 10 to 16 use both simultaneously.
177] Experimental Object-Reading : A Critical Review 43
A complicated method of " evaluation " {i.e. of assigning different scores
to different degrees of resemblance) is used which attempts to be objective,
but is clearly bound to contain some arbitrariness.
No justification is given for the use of the formula
y ^ for the stan-
S
dard deviation of the fraction ^ from its expectation |, where is the
total score on the originals and controls and S the score on the originals
only. Since the score on an item, instead of being fixed at unity, is
mathematically capable of taking almost any value it is difficult to see any
reason other than habit for Hettinger's use of this formula.* Hettinger
continues the unjustifiable procedure (see above, p. 22) of taking for/) and
q their empirical values -^instead of their theoretical value |. (Note
o IfxMf
also that the formula for the score of an item or group of items 6c = —^
—
given on p. loi is upside-down. It should be, and is in fact used as,
The experiments were divided into two series. In series i (tests i to 10)
the procedure was the same as that used in the experiments reported in
: Exploring the Ultra-Perceptive Faculty. A copy of a magazine was
perused by the subject or agent (Mrs L. A. Dale, Research Associate of the
A.S.P.R.) in New York during the hour of the test while a sensitive in
London gave object-reading impressions on specimens of the subject's
handwriting. The contrormethod used was to compare the sensitive's
impressions not only with the magazine that was being perused when they
were given but also with another issue of the same magazine.
Hettinger's own assessment of the results of this series is highly signi-
ficant. We cannot take this as very serious evidence, however, since
Hettinger knew which were the originals and which the controls. As he
says himself (p. 97) :
" The main difficulty is assessment, in which the
personal element plays an important part. If, when a control method is
used, the assessor knows which is the actual material and which is the
control material, the criticism may reasonably be advanced that he was
influenced by a bias one way or the other. If an inexperienced assessor
works '
blind ', and if the impressions of the sensitives are not absolutely
concrete hits, he begins to ponder and waver, finally deciding one way or
the other, and laying himself open to the criticism that his assessment was
of an arbitrary character. If, as has been found to be the case, a large
number of the impressions are not concrete hits, but rather distortions,
associations, inferences, allusions, relevant interpretations, etc., an assessor
not fully conversant with this specific kind of investigation simply ignores
them. ... I must confess that I myself, although I have spent hundreds
of hours working with this kind of material, often have difficulty in deciding
whether or not to accept a given impression as an indisputable hit. . .
."
Apparently dealing with this difficulty about a judge who knows the
* For the correct formula for the standard deviation when " evaluation " is
used, see p. 23, footnote.
44 Christopher Scott [Part
originals from the controls Hettinger quotes some figures obtained on an
assessment by Mr E. P. Gibson, of tests i, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 10. He does
not say explicitly that Gibson did not know the originals from the controls,
but this is at any rate implied from the context. Other important details,
however, are omitted. The subject in all these experiments notes on the
magazine the times when each page or picture is being perused. In
Gibson's control assessment we are not told whether dummy notes of
similar times were put in the control magazines or, if so, exactly what steps
were taken to ensure that these were distributed with the same frequency
as in the originals. Other criticisms could be brought against this assess-
ment, but need not, for Hettinger admits that it is unsatisfactory and incon-
clusive. Moreover, the figure obtained by Hettinger's method of calcula-
tion is only twice the standard deviation (corresponding to a chance of
I in 20) which is only just significant.*
A further assessment was made " by a young student who was entirely
unfamiliar with this sort of work ". She obtained nearly equal scores on
originals and controls.
It seems reasonable to conclude from these results (a) that there is no
substantial evidence for the presence of a paranormal factor, and (b) the
process of assessment is very far from objective.
In view of these inconclusive results a new control method was devised
for tests 11-16. This method was, if anything, even more unreliable than
that used in the first series, but it is of considerable importance because a
slight modification of it provides much the most satisfactory method of
experimenting with Hettinger's pictorial technique. The method was to
prepare two scrapbooks of 60 pictures each, randomly drawn from
magazines, one to be used as an original and one as a control. The
pictures in the original were contemplated for one minute each during the
hour of the test. (The same scrapbooks were used for all six tests.) At
the end of the series of tests the two books were sent to Hettinger who
without knowing which was which, compared the pictures in each book
with the items given by the sensitive at the corresponding times. He
found 362 items applicable to Book II and 264 to Book I. These figures
he treats in the usual way, to obtain a significant diflference in favour of
Book II. This book was in fact the original.
It was not until after the experiments had been completed that it
occurred to anyone that this experiment provides a chance of no more
than evens for the working of the " Ultra-Perceptive Faculty ". Mrs Dale
wrote to Hettinger as follows :
" The hypothesis is (or could be raised)
that you performed, so to speak, a single extrasefisory act, and by virtue of
this learned which was the correct scrapbook.t From then on, scoring of
* This figure is unreliable for the reasons given above. Applying Student's t-test
to the figures provided we get a quite insignificant probability, but it is clear that,
with so few figures and such a large variance, this is a case in which the ;-test gives
very conservative results.
t The Editor, in a footnote to Hettinger's article, stresses that " great pains
were taken to subject the two books to the same amount of wear and tear, etc., so
that there would be nor normal way of telling which one had actually been used in
the experiment ". Even if we could feel sure that this very difficult aim was achieved
It seems hardly necessary to postulate an " extrasensory act " to account for an
event which has a chance probability of just i in 2.
177] Experimental Object-Reading : A Critical Reviezv 45
individual items could be coloured by this bedrock paranormal knowledge.
In other words, the sixty pictures scored are not actually independent
items and are therefore not properly evaluated by the CR (critical ratio)
method. It is easy to be wise after the event, but I realise now that I
should have sent you the sixty pictures actually used, each paired with a
control picture—rather than the series of pictures prepared in scrapbooks.
Then there would be no question but what you would have had to make
sixty independent judgments. We now suggest that you return the
picture material, and that we ask Mr Gibson to re-evaluate the data when
the pictures are removed from the scrapbooks and presented to him in a
series of sixty paired items. Whether or not the actual stimulus picture is
to be the first or the second of the pair can be determined by a suitable
random method. The temporal order of the pictures from one to sixty
would of course be retained."
Hettinger, in his reply, wrote as follows : "I have received your letter
of the 13th inst., and I must confess that I was rather taken aback. I can
see your point of view, however, although I am afraid that whatever one
may do or say on the statistical side in connection with this kind of material,
one cannot escape both the difficult problem of assessment and some form
or other of criticism, since evaluation concerns not only items of a concrete
character, but also subtle associations.
" The assessment of the last series was done picture by picture, and
without any knowledge, perception, or guessing as to which of the two
books had been used in the experiment. The high scoring was not due
to any predilection on my part for one book rather than the other, but to
the accumulation of identical, similar, or obviously distorted associated
items (sensitive's impressions) in connection with one and the same
picture. ..."
However, the proposed assessment was carried out by Gibson and a score
of 98 was obtained on the originals and 126 on the controls.
It is quite clear from these results that we cannot safely draw any con-
clusions as to whether or not a paranormal factor is at work. Hettinger's
conclusion, " that these tests as a whole provide substantial prima-facie
evidence of transatlantic telepathy," is certainly far too optimistic.
The complete lack of agreement between Hettinger's and Gibson's
assessments of series 2, strongly suggests that Hettinger was, in fact,
influenced by bias in the way suggested by Mrs Dale.* But, whether or not
this was so, one thing stands out as self-evident : the process of assessment
is so unreliable and subjective that it is quite unsafe to put the slightest
trust in it unless it is applied to an objective control method.
The greater part of Hettinger's article is taken up by reproductions of
some of the better resemblances. Sometimes the original pictures are
both reproduced and described, sometimes they are only described. It is
clear from the former cases that Hettinger's descriptions are sometimes
biased in the direction of suggesting a greater similarity between the
pictures and the medium's impressions (see, for example, figures i and 2).
Nevertheless, there is no doubt that some of the resemblances reproduced
are qualitatively very striking. Unfortunately, however, we are given no
idea of the total number of comparisons from which these are drawn (a
* With or without the " single extrasensory act ".
46 Christopher Scott [Part
very rough calculation puts the figure at about 10,000 ; but we are not
given enough information to enable us to make any but the vaguest
estimate). Nor are any of the resemblances obtained on control pictures
reproduced. In view of the results of Gibson's assessment it seems very
probable that many such control resemblances would appear quite as
striking as the originals we are shown, and that, had they been reproduced,
their cumulative effect would have completely destroyed any intuitive
conviction the reader may have had that the original pictures bore a
significant similarity to the medium's impressions.
In this case we can only conclude once more that Hettinger's method of
presenting his material is utterly misleading. It is astonishing that, when
the control experiments show so clearly how narrow and elusive is
the margin between the successes on the originals and those on the
controls, Hettinger can continue to consider it a fair method of presen-
tation to reproduce a number of resemblances, selected from a total of
unspecified size, and to overlook entirely the resemblances obtained on the
controls.
Part IV
Hettinger's Experiments with the Present Writer
In his report on the transatlantic experiments Hettinger stated that in
view of the unsatisfactory nature of the statistical results he was contem-
plating a further series of transatlantic experiments in which he hoped the
statistical " difficulties " might be overcome. The Editor also mentioned
that a third series was planned and pointed out that the first two series
could not be considered as more than a pilot study. Feeling that it would
be unreasonable to judge (and perhaps condemn) the first two series as a
self-contained piece of work without waiting for the promised third series,
I enquired of Hettinger in January 1948 when this series was to take place.
He replied that no further control tests were now contemplated.
The position at this stage was most unsatisfactory. Hettinger seemed
to imply in his article that the work of assessment demands a skilled and
experienced judge. This is a fairly reasonable claim, but it leaves us
completely in the air and quite unable to draw a definite conclusion from
the experimental evidence. The only objective control experiment we
had was assessed by an inexperienced judge (Mr Gibson) : the only
experienced judge we had (Dr Hettinger) had never assessed, and did not
contemplate assessing, an objective control experiment. Apparently we
were at an impasse.
Clearly, with the increasing attention that was being paid to Hettinger's
work (in Sept., 1947 he addressed the British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, and in Sept.-Oct., 1947 the Daily Express ran a feature
on some experiments conducted by him), this situation was most unsatis-
factory. It was essential to be able to say definitely whether or not there
was any evidence for the paranormal in his results.
When, therefore, Hettinger offered to give me two sittings, using the
scrapbook method with me as subject, I resolved to take this opportunity
of carrying out a control experiment with Hettinger as judge.
It was arranged that for each test I should make up a scrapbook of 60
177] Experimental Object-Reading : A Critical Revieiv 47
pictures from magazines and look at the pictures, in order, for a minute
each during the time of the test. After each test, Hettinger would send
me a copy of the medium's* statements and I would make my own
annotations and assessment. These I would return to Hettinger with the
scrapbook, and he would make his assessment, finally returning every-
thing to me.
The control procedure I decided upon was as follows :
Before each test a collection of 90 drawings was made from copies of
Lilliput.-\ These were thoroughly shulfled, and 60 were randomly drawn
and placed in the scrapbook, one between each leaf, without being stuck
in position. These pictures were contemplated during the test. Because
of the faint possibility of the medium's faculty working precognitively, the
book was left with these pictures in it for several hours after the test. A
random selectionj of 30 of these 60 " originals " was then removed and the
30 pictures left over from my original collection of 90 were substituted as
controls. The 30 originals which had not been removed and the 30
controls were then stuck in the book. In this way there could be no
normal means of deducing from the pictures or the book which were the
originals and which the controls. (No difference in " wear and tear
"
could arise : each page of the book was turned over the same number of
times, and the pictures were not handled during the test.§)
Since I knew the originals from the controls there seemed little point
in my making annotations. Mr A. M. Western, who did not have this
information, very kindly undertook to make the annotations and assess-
ment instead, and it was his results that I forwarded to Hettinger. The
possibility also occurred to me that if Hettinger's assessment gave negative
results, the criticism might be made that it was not the truly free,
unbiased judgment of an experienced assessor, but was influenced by the
results of Western's assessment, which Hettinger would have before him
while he made his own. I therefore asked Hettinger if he would make his
assessment quite independently of Western's. This he agreed to do, and
I sent Western's assessment in a separate envelope, which Hettinger did
not open until he had completed his own.
In making the assessment it was decided to divide the resemblances into
three classes : A, very striking ;
B, good ;
C, far-fetched but possibly
significant. It was found that Western classed about seven-eighths of his
resemblances C, one eighth B, and none A. Hettinger classed about one
half C, one third B, and one sixth A, with the reservation that " practically
all those I marked C are in my opinion applicable and not far-fetched, but
. . . not as good as those marked B ".
* The medium for both these tests was Miss F. Fallows (" F ").
f Bearing in mind the limitations set by social convention on the medium's
statements, I thought it best to omit all pictures containing any appreciable sex-
interest.
X In test I the determination of this selection was made some days before the
test ; in test 2, the day after. In both cases it was truly random and quite indepen-
dent of the actual pictures.
§ As this short experiment would have been, in any case, inadequate as a com-
pletely conclusive and formal proof of paranormality, I did not consider it necessary
to have my procedure witnessed. The real purpose of the experiment was to test
objectively the reliability of Hettinger's judgment, so that no further precaution
seemed necessary beyond those usually taken in experiments in psychology.
48 Christopher Scott [Part
Before considering the results of the control experiment it is important
to note that Hettinger, speaking of all the results before he knew about the
controls, wrote : "I consider them quite good and up to the standard of
the other results." (This was in reply to a comment of mine on the
vagueness of the resemblances.) And again :
" Apparently you are a
very good subject so far as psychometry + telepathy is concerned. I am
judging this by comparison with many other subjects who have partici-
pated in my experiments ; also by the character of the impressions
received, which seem to cover a wide range."
We have, then, Hettinger's unequivocal statement that the results of
these tests, on the controls as well as the originals, are qualitatively quite
as convincing as those obtained in others of Hettinger's experiments
—
experiments which Hettinger considers to provide " substantial prima-
facie evidence " and to be " per se more convincing than a statistical figure
in any calculation ".
Now let us consider the objective results.
The following tables show thenumberof pictures eliciting at leastone hit.*
I. Annotation by Hettinger
Test I Test 2
A B c Totals A B C Totals
Originals 3 4 II 18 4 4 5 13
Controls 3 7 8 18 I 8 5 14
Totals 6 II 19 36 5 12 10 27
2. Annotation by Western
Test I Test 2
A B C Totals A B C Totals
Originals o o 1
1
1
1
0 I
9 10
Controls o 2 9 1
1
0 3 14 17
Totals o 2 20 22 0 4 23 27
There is clearly no appreciable indication at all that the originals tend
to do better than the controls. The only favourable figure is four A's on
the " original " pictures of Test No. 2 of Hettinger's annotation against
one on the controls. But this is almost balanced by a larger deviation the
other way with the B's, and is in any case quite insignificant.
I communicated these results to Hettinger and proposed a further assess-
ment of the 30 originals in each test which had not yet been used in the
assessments, but he replied that he did not believe that any useful purpose
could be served by any further assessment or scoring.
* The reason for working with the number of successful pictures rather than
items is that the former are known to be independent (or rather, strictly speaking,
only dependent in a random way) the latter may be interdependent, in the sense
explained above, p. 34. If we are to use the ordinary statistical formulae we must be
certain that the units from which the scores are built up arise from mutually
independent events.
177] Experimental Object-Reading : A Critical Review 49
In a subsequent talk I had with Hettinger he gave an impression of
complete confidence in the presence of paranormality in these tests. But
one reason, he suggested, why such experiments gave negative results
might be that the controls were not sufficiently different from the originals.
With such a wide range of resemblances as he permits, any two pictures
drawn at random will nearly always have some element in common ;
indeed it is a very difficult task to find two pictures which have nothing
at all in common. Instead of selecting the controls randomly, therefore,
I should have carefully chosen each one so as to be as different as possible
from the original it replaced.
While I fully appreciate the soundness of this criticism I must point
out that it leads directly to the conclusion that any given picture has so
many elements which are potentially capable of giving rise to mediumistic
impressions that chance resemblances between an impression and a picture
must inevitably be very frequent, and, in general, quite indistinguishable
from genuine paranormal resemblances ; so that this criticism merely
gives added weight to the argument that a mere enumeration of
resemblances obtained without a control is a totally unreliable way of
evaluating the results. That chance resemblances between pictures are
so common means that chance resemblances between impressions and
pictures must be common. It follows that control methods are absolutely
essential, and that even when controls are used and the greatest care is
taken to choose controls each as different as possible from the original it
replaces, any paranormal effect must be greatly diluted with chance
resemblances.
The conclusion that must be drawn from these two tests is not that there
is no paranormal factor at work in them or in any of Hettinger's work,
but that Hettinger has not yet devised a technique for adequately dem-
onstrating the " ultra-perceptive faculty ", and that his subjective judg-
ment as to whether coincidences are paranormal or not does not tally with
the results of objective tests. Since the conclusions to be drawn from the
work described in Hettinger's second book and his A.S.P.R. Journal
report depend almost exclusively on the reliability of his judgments in this
respect, we must conclude that very little weight can be attached to any
of the evidence put forward in these reports.
Hettinger's ingenious and original " pictorial method " has many
advantages. In particular it seems that it might be peculiarly well suited
for what Hettinger calls " exploring the ultra-perceptive faculty ", that is,
discovering what sort of resemblances are most likely to arise paranormally.
But one thing is certain : nothing of value can come from it unless it is
combined with a technique for estimating the role that can be played by
chance in bringing about resemblances. There can be no possible reason
for relying on subjective judgments where the simplest of checks is
available. Nor is it possible in this case to put forward the defence
—
which may, perhaps, be valid on other occasions—that control experi-
ments are misleading or unnecessary or insensitive, or that they mask
important facts or disturb the psychic faculty or lead only to arguments
about statistics. All such arguments miss their mark because we are not
proposing to modify the free uncontrolled experiments or to use a new
5° Christopher Scott [Part 177]
method. All that is necessary in effect is to do a few additional experiments
in which chance is known to be the only operative factor. Control experi-
ments in Hettinger's work would not involve a change of method, but
merely an addition to the existing method. What objection can there be
to this addition? Nothing could be simpler to carry out ; the statistical
assessment is the most straightforward there can be ; and there is no
conceivable possibility of information being lost by getting the judge to
assess a number of extra pictures. In no other science would an experi-
menter insist on relying on his subjective judgment when a perfect objec-
tive check is available.
It is a great misfortune to psychical research that the work of such an
energetic investigator should have been deflected from the path of scien-
tific method into a field where guessing is the only form of judgment, and
measurement is replaced by the bare presentation of unrepresentative
samples of the data.
Editorial Note
[Complete candour between psychical researchers engaged in the same
investigation is of tlie utmost importance and has been a cherished tradition
of the Society. There are some kittds of experiments, intended to check
previous work, which are in other respects desirable, but are difficult to carry
out with strict adherence to this principle. In designing the interesting
experiment described in the foregoing paper Mr Scott appears to have found
this difficulty unsurmountable.
All psychical researchers should bear the principle in mind, and take all
possible care, when planning their experiments, to avoid any infringement of it.
After completion of the experiment Mr Scott offered to show his paper to
Dr Hettiiiger, who raised no objection to its publication.^
REVIEW
Matter, Mind and Meaning. By W. Whately Carington. With a preface
by Professor H. H. Price. Methuen, 1949. Pp. xx, 257. I2S. 6d.
Mr Whately Carington died on 2nd March, 1947, a great loss to psychical
research and to our Society, of which he had been an active member for
some thirty years. Up to the last few months of his life, when he became
incapacitated through illness, he was engaged in writing a book on philo-
sophy, entitled Matter, Mind and Meaning, to which he attached great
importance. At the time when he ceased to be able to do further work on it
he had completed about two-thirds of it. After his death the manuscript
passed into the hands of Professor H. H. Price, who has prepared it for the
press and contributed an appreciative and most interesting preface and
occasional footnotes.
Professor Price says that the first five chapters were almost complete in
their final form. The main body of the book now ends with the sixth
chapter, entitled Mind and Matter. Of this there existed only two very
brief alternative versions, which Professor Price has tried to conflate. The
editor has added, from papers left by the author, three appendices. One
is a more popular form of the argument in Chapter II on the failure of
metaphysics. The other two contain what are probably Carington's
latest thoughts on the notion of life after death and on the nature of
precognition.
Whately Carington's final philosophical position is a form of neutral
monism. Minds and matter are complexes composed of constituents of
the same kind, viz., sensa (extra-somatic and intra-somatic) and images,
arranged in characteristically different constellations. He calls these
constituents " cognita " or " cognizables ". His explicit reason for holdhig
this view is that he thinks that it is necessitated by the theory of meaning
which seems to him to be the only one acceptable. This is the doctrine
that every intelligible sentence which is not tautological must be in prin-
ciple verifiable or refutable by sensation or introspection.
Neither of these views is original, and Whately Carington fully acknow-
ledges his debt to Earl Russell for the theory of neutral monism, and to
Messrs Ogden and Richards and Professor Ayer for the theory of meaning
and the contention, based upon it, that metaphysical sentences are meaning-
less.
" Metaphysics " is described as an attempt to infer true and intelli-
gible propositions about the actual world from a priori premises. Actually
I think that few distinguished metaphysicians have attempted to argue
from premises which are all of them a priori. The description might
perhaps fit Spinoza ; it certainly does not fit Leibniz, or Kant, or McTag-
gart, or Alexander, or Whitehead.
I do not consider that the book is of any great interest or importance as a
contribution to philosophy. The main value which can be ascribed to it
from that point of view is as a lively popular introduction to the weightier
and more technical works of Ogden and Richards, of Professor Ayer, and
of Earl Russell on the topics which it treats. I found Professor Price's
51
52 Review [Part 177]
introduction, which contains a number of bold and fruitful suggestions,
considerably more interesting than the book itself.
What gives to Whately Carington's posthumous work such interest and
importance as it possesses is the fact that he had an expert firsthand
acquaintance with the established results of psychical research, that he
fully realised that they constitute a challenge to philosophers, and that he
had himself already made a bold and original speculation as to the modus
operandi of telepathy. Now Earl Russell and Professor Ayer (in common
with the vast majority of western philosophers) have never shown the least
interest in, or acquaintance with, the results of psychical research ; and they
have never shown any sign of realising that philosophy ought to take account
of them and try to fit them into its picture of the world along with the facts
of normal sense-perception and normal interaction of mind and matter.
Whately Carington tries to show that the occurrence of telepathy and
clairvoyance is by no means paradoxical on the neutral monist theory of
mind and matter ; and he maintains that their existence presents extreme
difficulties to other theories. It is to be presumed that he intended to try
to show that well attested paranormal physical phenomena, both sporadic
and experimental, fit easily into the neutral monist world-picture. This,
as Professor Price points out, he did not live to accomplish. Price himself
makes two very interesting alternative suggestions on this topic in his
prefatory essay. One is an extension of the notion of ideo-motor action.
The other is an extension of the notion of telepathically produced hallu-
cination.
The book contains a large number of misprints, though none of them
is serious enough to obscure the obvious meaning. I have noted no less
than eight, and there may well be others which I have overlooked.
C. D. Broad
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
PART 178
OBITUARY
Miss Isabel Newton
Miss Newton's services to the Society and to psychical research were
exceptionally long and in many ways remarkable. They began in 1903
when, being on the lookout for a secretarial post, and having no previous
interest in psychical research, she was moved to apply for a vacancy on
the staff of the S.P.R. A fortunate day, that, for the Society!
Alice Johnson had a few months previously been appointed Organizing
Secretary, and Miss Newton was at first her assistant, becoming Secretary
in 1908. This post she held until her retirement in 1938, when the
Council signalized their appreciation of her services by placing her name
on the very short list of Honorary Members.
From 1916, when Alice Johnson retired from the position of Research
Officer, until 1938 Miss Newton was the mainspring of the Society's office
organization and gained the confidence and affection of all the members
with whom she came into contact. She also gained a practical knowledge
of psychical research that few of her contemporaries could rival.
After a year of vtell-deserved leisure, on the outbreak of War in 1939,
Miss Newton at once offered to assist the Council in carrying on the
Society's work. This offer was gratefully accepted. Very wide emergency
powers were delegated to her and to myself as Hon. Secretary. She was
unremitting in her attention to her new duties, and it was largely through
her devotion to the Society's work at this time and the confidence of our
members in her, that the heavy decline in numbers which took place in the
early years of the War was arrested, and that by 1942 a slight, at first a very
slight, increase was observable. When she retired from the Council in
1944 she consented, notwithstanding indifferent health, to continue to
serve on the House Committee.
Her career was an outstanding example of the triumph of mind and
character over the serious initial disadvantage of an education which did
not include any time at college or any specialized training whatever. But
sympathy, personal loyalty, freedom from all trace of egotism and ability
to learn from others, were part of her innate endowment.
How much she learnt from close association with Alice Johnson may be
seen from her tribute to the latter in Proceedings, vol. xlvi, pp. 19-22.
Superficially the two were very different. Alice Johnson was small in
build, austere in appearance and reserved in manner : Miss Newton in all
54 Ohiluarx : Miss Isabel Nnvlon [Part
respects the opposite. But there were many underlying points of similar-
ity, and many of the things Miss Newton writes of Alice Johnson might
well be applied to herself, as when she mentions " the consideration she
showed for everyone with whom she was in contact, directly or in-
directly ". Again, " I remember her impressing upon me that, in replying
to correspondents, it was our duty to help them to understand, and telling
me that she found it helpful to assume, for that purpose, that they were
ignorant and rather stupid. . . . Her devotion to the interests of the
Society impressed me greatly. She had a great capacity for sympathy,
and a gift for expressing it in letters simply and sincerely."
I have spoken of Miss Newton learning from Alice Johnson, but in
these matters she needed little teaching. All she needed, and that she got,
was an example to encourage the development of her own natural tenden-
cies. She did not possess that strong grasp of complicated detail, or that
ability for marshalling it into ordered hypotheses, that was characteristic
of Alice Johnson. During her term of office various specialized forms of
psychical research successively engaged a large part of the Society's
activities. First came the investigation of " the S.P.R. group of auto-
matists ". Then, after the First War, came the heyday of physical
phenomena, and of recent years the great extension of quantitative
research. All these required technical knowledge which, with her other
duties, she could not have been expected to acquire. She contented
herself with a good general knowledge of the work being done.
But it would be a mistake to allow her long and admirable record in
administration to obscure the amount of research which fell to her lot
in the course of her work as Secretary, or the ability with which she
handled it, or, again, the extent of the knowledge she gained thereby. If a
practicable arrangement could be made whereby some person, chosen by
lot from among our members. Council members included, undertook for
a week to answer all the letters received in our office, and to take all the
interviews, the fundamental problems of psychical research would be much
more widely and thoroughly understood than they are. Whoever does
work of that kind has under his observation a garden plot, as it were, in
which the sprouting of every kind of psychic phenomenon, real and
spurious, may be watched. Miss Newton cultivated this plot for a life-
time, and in so doing developed an uncanny flair for distinguishing weeds
from flowers as soon as the first green shoots appeared.
To do the work as well as she did it required reserves of sympathy,
patience, tolerance and tact that were inexhaustible. I have seen her
emerge from an interview that would have prostrated most persons, and
turn quietly to the next piece of work, simply remarking that there were
some very queer people about. Calmness did not, I think, come easily to
her. During her last illness she told me that in early days she often found
herself getting vexed, and had to remind herself that Isabel Newton was
one person, and the Secretary of the S.P.R. another. Doubtless the
example of imperturbability set by Mrs Sidgwick helped her here.
And her keen sense of humour must also often have come to her
assistance. She was not particularly witty, but had a very sharp apprecia-
tion of the many oddities of mind and temperament with which her daily
duties made her familiar. This was apparent on even a short acquaintance,
178] Obilttary : Miss Isabel Xezvlon 55
but it was only after I had known her well for several years that I was
favoured with an exhibition of her remarkable talent for mimicry. This,
it should be added, was never unkindly in intention.
As the result of her long and varied experience, she came to form
definite opinions, but she never obtruded these in her letters or interviews.
Any enquirer could be sure of getting from her a well-informed, im-
personal, objective statement as to the points at issue in any debateable
matter, with good guidance as to the literature most likely to be helpful
to him in forming his own conclusions. It was typical of her independence
of mind that, although her admiration for Mrs Sidgwick and Alice
Johnson was almost unbounded, she continued to hold her own much
more sceptical views on the question of survival. She was candid but
unobtrusive in stating her own opinions, and it was not until I had worked
closely with her for many years that I discovered how deep-seated her
scepticism was.
Nor was it merely in opinion that she was independent. No one could
have accused her of the autocratic temper sometimes attributed to her
predecessor, but she could act forcefully on her own initiative when she
thought the Society's interests were at stake. On one occasion, when there
happened to be already a good deal of friction in the Society, she had
reason to believe that a senior and much respected member was intending
to include in a public address a passage that would have been taken as a
personal attack on other members, several of whom would probably have
resigned. She asked to see the manuscript of the speech, sought an
interview with the speaker, and after some argument procured the can-
cellation of the passage. Later she thought it proper that as Hon. Secretary
I should know of her action, but very few of our members ever knew how
her discretion and tact had averted a crisis.
It was through her initiative that the Society acquired its premises in
Tavistock Square. When the lease of its former rooms in Hanover Square
expired, the Council were for some time at a loss where to go. Various
quarters were offered them, each more inconvenient than the last. But
Miss Newton was not discouraged. She gave herself no rest till she had
found what seemed needed, and on the basis of the careful estimate she
prepared, she persuaded the Council that it would be more economical
as well as in every way more convenient for the Society to have a house of
Its own rather than to be a tenant of rooms in someone else's house.
Again, in the matter of exemption from income tax she refused to accept as
final the adverse opinions that the Council had more than once received.
She w^as sure that these were due to an inadequate presentation of the
facts, set about to get the matter put on a more satisfactory basis, worked
up the evidence that she found would be necessary, and eventually had
the satisfaction of seeing the Society granted an exemption without which
Its financial position would have been desperate in recent years. It was
characteristic of her that she more than once after her retirement protested
that the very modest pension she w^as receiving after a life-time of service
was more than the Society could afford.
During the last year of her life she suffered a great deal of pain, and her
serious operation last summer gave her only temporary relief. To within
a day or two of her death there was nothing she enjoyed more than a talk
56 Obitiiai v : R'[iss Isabel Newton [Part
about the S.P.R., whether it turned on the great figures of the past with
whom she had worked, or on more recent developments, which she
followed with equal keenness. The pleasure of such a talk was certainly
not one-sided. The staff of the Nursing Home adored her, and said they
had never had so good a patient.
It is forty-seven years since Miss Newton was appointed Assistant
Secretary. Those years saw great changes in the personnel actively
engaged in S.P.R. work, in the subject matters and methods of research,
and in the Society's fortunes. To some of us who were closely associated
with her in the later period of her work, her loyalty and friendliness
through all our difficulties seemed among the most trustworthy guarantees
of future progress.
I am glad to be able to print below personal impressions from several
of her old friends and former colleagues.
W. H. S.
American members of the S.P.R. visiting London had reason to be
grateful to Miss Newton. With her manifold duties she was never too
busy to examine records that were referred to her and to weigh the
evidence with strict adherence to the methods and standards of Mr
Piddington's High-and-Dry School. This increased the inquirer's
confidence and respect for psychical research, regardless of disappointment
when things were sometimes not what they had seemed to be.
Miss Newton's generous nature went much farther than this. She
saw to it that American visitors met members of the S.P.R. who had
taken an active and valuable part in the Society's work. Thus it was my
good fortune to become acquainted with leaders in the field who still lived
in the late 1920's and 30's.
Miss Newton's loyalty and devotion to the S.P.R. need no comment
from me. But I should like to mention one instance of her innate modesty.
We happened to have a dinner engagement on the day when the Special
Commissioners upheld the Society's claim for exemption from income tax.
When Miss Newton arrived she was radiantly happy, and she told me in
detail about the hearing of the case. Not a word was said of her own part
in what had led to the momentous decision, only how much the others had
done. It was not until some months later when I read Mr Salter's report
of the outcome in the S.P.R. Journal that I learned this important success
was very largely due to Miss Newton's enterprise and tact.
Over the years we became great friends. Psychical research was not
our only common interest. And it was then that I frequently teased Miss
Newton about having missed her real vocation. She was a delightful
mimic and was able to impersonate mutual friends and acquaintances to
the life, throw their foibles into sharp relief, and always with such warm
good humor that my invariable reaction was an increased liking for or
interest in the " victim ".
Miss Newton faced her personal difficulties in the last years with the
fine courage that was implicit in her character. A message last Christmas
said, " About the same," when I knew that she was on a much lower
level. It was cheering to be informed that loyal S.P.R. members were
178] Obituarx Miss Isabel Newton 57
providing Miss Newton with personal attention and physical comfort she
might not otherwise have had in her long illness. It was a token of the
affection and high regard in which she was held by her many friends in
psychical research.
Lydia W. Allison
{Secretary, American S.P.R.)
It was very many years ago that I first met Miss Newton, in the long-ago
days when the Society's rooms were in Hanover Square. I had gone there
to recount some telepathic experience, and to enquire into the work of the
Society. The immediate impression which she then made on me, of a
happy mixture of intelligence and kindness, was confirmed and deepened
as the years went on. Her open but critical mind, her sympathetic insight,
and her great respect for truth made association with her a most happy
and valuable experience. I only now reahze how much I learnt from her.
She was always good company, for she saw life both dramatically and
humorously, and brought zest both to leisure and work. Books, the
theatre, travel, talk, all experiences were savoured to the full. Highly
intuitive herself, she could give sympathetic understanding to those who
experienced paranormal phenomena, she had instinctive insight into the
workings of the unconscious mind, and early prophesied the help which
would come from its scientific study.
She was a tirelessly interested and sympathetic observer of life in its
endless aspects. Few things made her iinpatient, except perhaps, a defeatist
attitude. For her, a problem or a difficulty was always a challenge, and
this is how I see her, I think, most clearly, and shall most clearly remember
her, responding with generous energy and with colours flying, not con-
scious of how much she spent herself, till the difficulty was resolved, or
the friend rescued. Her help was so wholehearted that often the difficulty
seemed miraculously solved, to her own great astonishment.
Her own generosity enabled her to express gratitude generously
;
during her last illness her faith in life even grew in strength, and her
unselfish courage remained undimmed to the end, endearing her to all
who knew her.
Ina Jephson
I did not have many opportunities for meeting Miss Newton personally,
nor did we have much correspondence. None the less she made a con-
siderable impression, in various ways. Her appearance, for one thing :
she had such beautiful eyes, hair, and skin, and good features too ; I often
thought she must have been lovely as a girl, and was astonished when,
latterly, she told me her age. There was also her ability to remain calm
and unruffled in controversy, and never to seem hurried at work. And I
found her full of that rare gift, common sense. Critical of people, though
never maliciously so, while she assessed character accurately she was
always loyal, and I never heard her say anything better left unsaid. She
was also a wonderful mimic, and I gathered had a suppressed desire to
58 Obitiiarv : l\Iiss Isabel Neivton [Part
write stories. Our chief bond was our mutual admiration and affection
for Mrs Sidgwick : I think we talked more of her than of anyone else in
our brief encounters.
Nea Walker
I first got to know Isabel Newton when I began to work for the Society
in 1908, and she had recently become its Secretary. My personal contact
in these early days was mainly with Alice Johnson, whose Assistant I was,
but I soon became aware of Miss Newton as some one upon whom one
could always depend for help and information, and after Miss Johnson's
resignation we worked much together, and came to know each other well.
Two words which come immediately to my mind when I think of her are
sympathy and loyalty. Her sympathy was the result of a genuine and
quite unforced interest in other people's problems, and a practical desire
to help them in any way she could.
I was her colleague all through the years of the first War, when we
received almost daily visits from people (by no means all of them Members
of the Society) who had suffered recent bereavements. To some of these
visitors their bereavement had come as a shattering blow, and they were
finding it difficult to look forward into the future and face life. Miss
Newton's skill and patience in setting them on the road again were quite
exceptional. She was scrupulously honest, she offered them no easy
anodynes, but she instilled into them something of her own courage and
buoyancy, persuading them to " try again ".
Her loyalty to the Society in general and to her colleagues in particular
stood like a rock ; I never at any time felt that there was the remotest
possibility that she would let me down. One incident I remember
which was characteristic of her : the Office staff at that time consisted of
Miss Newton, Mrs Thatcher (Assistant Secretary), and myself. Miss
Newton had been out of health for some time and had at last gone away
for a much needed holiday, when I arrived at the Office one morning to
get news that Mrs Thatcher's husband had been killed at the front and
she would not be coming to work. I wrote at once to inform Miss Newton
(I knew she would not wish to be left in ignorance of what had happened),
but I assured her I could carry on single-handed for a time, and she was
on no account to curtail her holiday. She came back next day.
I shall always remember with pleasure the friendly talk I had with her
in the Nursing Home only four days before she died. It was evident to
me that the end could not be far off, and Miss Newton told me frankly
that she would be glad when it came. But her mind was perfectly clear,
and she was serene, and contented, as she said, to look back upon a long,
full and happy life. She told me it was a pleasure to her to realize from the
many letters she had had how much help she had been able to give to
others by merely " being herself ".
Miss Nea Walker has referred to her physical appearance, and as I
looked at her face on that last visit, —the flesh fallen away, so that one saw
the shape of the bone,—I thought how beautiful she was.
H. DE G. S.
178] Obituary : Miss Isabel Newton 59
When in 1935 I took office as Research Student of the Society (becoming
Research Officer the following year), I knew very little about psychical
research. I had assisted, mainly on the scientific side, with some experi-
ments with a physical medium ; I had done a certain amount of somewhat
unsystematic reading of psychology—mostly of what was then called
" the New Psychology " ; and I had examined some of the more recent
literature of psychical research. I was thus deeply dependent upon Miss
Newton, who was then Secretary, both as a general psychical counsellor,
and as a director of studies. She was able to tell me exactly what I should
read, and—more important—which of it I should read first. She was
also ready to set me right on the many and varied day-to-day points which
my work threw up ; and she gave me useful hints about the various
members of the Society, and others, with whom my work brought me into
contact. Her advice was invariably sound. She was, of course, a very
clever woman, not so much brilliant as soundly clever, and her intellect, I
thought, was more like that of a man—and a gifted man—than a woman's.
For example, she ne\ er made up her mind without careful consideration
of all the available evidence ;
and, once her mind was made up, she
rarely changed it.
She was of immense assistance to me, both on account of her wisdom
and experience, and from her kindness and enthusiastic encouragement.
Her knowledge of the literature made her invaluable to a beginner in the
subject. Without her advice, I should not have found until months or
years afterwards many papers which were of the greatest \alue to my
work, and I should have wasted time in ploughing through much that,
though highly praised by some, was really of smaller importance. She
knew all the tricks of the trade, and could point an unerring finger at the
one weak spot in what appeared to be a cast iron " case ". At first, I
disagreed with some of her judgments of individuals : people whom I
thought were sound she gravely discounted, and vice versa. But I soon
discovered that she was almost invariably right. " Tell me your longi-
tude," said Sir Lulworth Quayne in " Saki's " story The Blind Spot, " and
I'll know what latitude to allow you." Miss Newton could tell everyone's
longitude to within a second of arc, and she knew exactly what latitude to
allow them. While full of kind encouragement, she made no attempt to
disguise the extreme difficulty of the subject, and the immense value of
the work which had already been done, much of it, of course, by persons
of the very highest intelligence. Soon after my arrival she propounded a
principle which (though of course it was most tactfully and charmingly
disguised) really amounted to this :
" If ever you have a brilliant new
idea, you are almost certain to find out that it has already all been said,
much better, by Mrs Sidgwick." I used this principle as a sort of psychical
William of Occam's Razor—and I found it most salutary.
She appeared to be an untidy worker. Her desk was always stuffed and
littered with countless papers, arranged apparently in a truly random
sequence—but she was always able to lay her hands instantly on the
document that she wanted. She was also fond of making notes on odd
little scraps of paper. But in reality she worked quickly and systematically.
We never discussed general subjects. With so much to talk about in
relation to our work, we had no time for that. I never discovered whether
6o Obituary : Miss Isabel Neivfon [Part 178]
she was artistic or fond of music ; whether she went to the theatre ; or
what sort of books she read. On the one occasion that I visited her
charming httle flat, we talked mostly of the business on hand (I had been
asked to come for the purpose of photographing the relative positions of
two objects which were thought to have been referred to in a sitting of
the " book-test " type). But after the beginning of the war (by which
time she had retired from the post of Secretary) she spoke to me and
made a suggestion, which seemed to me a very sound one, in connexion
with the broadcast messages which were then being given to the people of
England with the object of maintaining morale. I was able to pass on her
suggestion to the appropriate quarter, and it was acted upon—and with
splendid effect. Whether this was due solely to Miss Newton's idea, or
whether the suggestion had been made previously by others, I do not know.
C. V. C. Herbert
THE EXPERIMENTAL EVIDENCE FOR PK
.
- AND PRECOGNITION
By C. W. K. Mundle
The purpose of this paper is to ask whether, and if so how, we can
distinguish experimentally between cases of PK and cases of precognition.
Before tackling the problems which face the experimenter, it seems
proper, however, to decide how we shall interpret the words " PK " and
" precognition ". There may turn out to be substantial disagreement
regarding the definition of these words : for one thing, it is difficult to
define these words at all, without implying or suggesting some particular
metaphysical theory. I shall, however, for the purpose of this discussion,
provisionally accept the theory of psycho-physical dualism, in that I shall
assume that mental events and physical events are of irreducibly different
kinds ; but I wish to leave it an open question whether, or in what sense,
a mind or a piece of matter may be called " a substance ". If some
readers disagree with my definitions of " PK " and " precognition ", I
hope, at least, that my definitions will make it clear in what respects I am
departing from their usage.
When I speak of " precognition " in this paper, I shall be referring
only to what Professor Broad has more accurately described as " super-
normal non-inferential precognition ".^ I suggest that we should define
" a precognition " as a human event, which stands in certain relations
to a later event (which may be of any kind whatsoever), the relations in
question being (a) that the later event exerts direct causal influence on
this human event or on one of the antecedent conditions of this human
event : (b) that the later event corresponds epistemologically to this
human event, that is to say, the later event resembles the human event in
ways which make us say that it verifies the human event.
This definition calls for some explanations :
(i) I speak of a human event because I wish to include both mental
events, like having an image, seeing an apparition, or entertaining a
proposition, and also pieces of bodily behaviour like writing or uttering
a word or sentence, or drawing a picture. In some cases of ostensible
precognition, we are not entitled to describe the earlier event as mental.
For example, in automatic writing, all that can be observed in many cases
is the writing movement and what is written, for automatists are often
unable, later, to remember writing a given sentence or entertaining the
proposition thus recorded. If we say that the automatist must, in some
sense, have been simultaneously conscious of what she wrote, this is a
conclusion reached by problematic inference, and not an observed datum.
(ii) I speak of the later event exercising direct causal influence on the
human event or on one of the antecedent conditions of this human event.
I introduce this alternative because many psychical researchers considei
that, in cases of supernormal cognition, the object of the percipient's
* " The Philosophical Implications of Foreknowledge ", The Aristotelian
Society, Supplementary Volume XVI.
6i
62 C. IF. K. Dlundlc [Part
conscious experience is usually a more or less distorted product of
processes occurring in the unconscious mind of the percipient. If this is
so, the later verifying event would presumably exert direct causal influence
on unconscious mental events which arc causal ancestors of the observed
event which we call " a precognition ". The immediate causal ancestors
of the latter event may, however, include physical events in the per-
cipient's brain, in which case it might be these cerebral events which
were directly influenced by the verifying event.
(iii) My above definition may appear to some people to leave out part
of what they mean by " precognition " (or by " foreknowledge " if they
use that term), namely the element of knowing (or truly believing) a fact
about the future. I suggest, however, that, in so far as the words " pre-
cognition " and " foreknowledge " suggest this element as part of their
meaning, they are misleading for describing the facts in question. For,
in most of the spontaneous cases, the earlier human event is interpreted
as precognitive, only after the observation of a later event which verifies
it.i And in the experimental situation, the percipient appears incapable
of distinguishing which of his guesses are " hits "." Perhaps I should
mention here that when I speak, later in this paper, of a person being
informed by precognition of a later event, I do this to avoid circumlocution,
and intend to say not that this person has ever thought of the occurrence
of the future event, but merely to say that the future event has directly
influenced prior events in his mind or brain, in such a way as to increase
the probability of his behaving in ways which are appropriate to the
occurrence of this future event.
Our definition of " PK " will, I imagine, be less controversial. It
seems that Professor Rhine, and other psychical researchers, use " PK "
primarily to refer to the following property—direct causal influence of a
mental event on a physical event which occurs outside the physical
organism associated with that mental event. It is true that Rhine has
gone on to suggest that direct causal transaction between a mental event
and an extra-somatic physical event may be a process of the same kind as
that which occurs normally between a mind and the body it animates.
Nevertheless, " PK " is used primarily to refer to causal transactions which
appear supernormal, and it seems best to limit its meaning to this sense.
We cannot, however, take the above property as a complete definition of
" PK ", for it would never occur to us to ask whether a mental event
exerts direct causal influence on an extra-somatic physical event, unless
we already knew that these events were related by epistemological corre-
spondence. All the cases of ostensible PK which have been, and can be,
investigated are cases where the extra-somatic event corresponds epis-
temologically to an idea or volition, and it is this correspondence which
makes us suspect a causal connection. (Of course, the epistemological
correspondence may be negative as well as positive. In a dice-throwing
experiment in which the agent is aiming at high-dice, a significant deficit,
^ H. F. vSaltmarsh, Foreknowledge, p. 25, " most precognitions are not immedi-
ately known to be such, they are not predictions in the sense that they are, at the
time of their occurrence, consciously recognised as having a reference to the
future ".
^ l7</f Soal and (iotdnev, " Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy ", Proc.
S.P.R., Vol. XLVII, pp. 77-8.
178] The Expei imeiital Evidence for PK and Precognition 63
as well as a significant surplus, of high-dice would be taken to indicate
PK.) I shall define " an instance of PK " as the occurrence of certain
relations between a mental event and a physical event which occurs out-
side the body associated with that mental event, the relations in question
being (a) that the mental event exerts direct causal influence on the
physical event ;
(h) that the mental event and the physical event are
related by epistemological correspondence.
If these definitions are correct, they reveal that our concepts of PK
and precognition are very similar in form. Each involves reference to a
pair of events related (a) causally and (b) epistemologically. The
difTerences between these concepts are :
(i) In respect of the nature of the events which stand in these relations.
We may notice here that the kinds of events involved in PK are subclasses
of the kinds of events involved in precognition {mental events being a sub-
class of human events : extra-somatic physical events being a sub-class of
events).
(ii) In respect of the direction of the causal influence. In PK, the causal
influence is from a mental event to a (simultaneous or later) extra-somatic
physical event. In precognition, the causal influence is from a later event
to an earlier human event.
The latter difference requires some comment. For philosophers, the
question of what we mean by " causation " raises many controversial
issues which cannot be discussed here, but there are two points which
we should not evade :
(i) Some philosophers have held that it is meaningless to speak of
causation as " operating in a certain direction " : have held that to assert
causal connection between y4-Iike events and i?-like events is merely to
say [a) that .4-like events are always accompanied by i?-like events, or
are always followed or preceded at some characteristic interval by i?-like
events, and is not to say {b) that ^^-like events influence i?-like events in
any sense in which i?-like events do not influence ^-like events. Now,
// this view were accepted, PK and precognition would not be indepen-
dent hypotheses (or concepts), but instead, PK would be a species of
precognition. For consider a case where we had a mental event followed
by an extra-somatic physical event, these events being related by epis-
temological correspondence. Whatever evidence we might obtain that
such events are causally connected, there would be, on the above view of
causation, no difference in meaning between describing this connection as
an instance of PK and as an instance of precognition. For in such a
case the meaning of " PK " and " precognition " could only be dis-
tinguished by reference to the direction of the causal influence.
(ii) We might, however, maintain that there is one sense in which we
can (and do) inteUigibly speak of causation as operating in a certain direc-
tion ; that the common sense criterion of the direction of causal influence
is that it is always from earlier to later events. However, if this were our
only criterion of the direction of causal influence, we could not render
intelligible our definition of " precognition ", for what could we then
mean by speaking of the causal influence of a later event on an earlier
event?
Let us regard these considerations as a challenge, admitting that if PK
64 C. W. K. Mundle [Part
and precognition are to be intelligible as itidcpciidciit hypotheses, this must
be by virtue of some criterion of the direction of causal influence other
than the common sense criterion based on the temporal order of events.
Let us turn now to the practical problems. Firstly, can we obtain
experimental evidence for PK,- which could not be otherwise explained?
This seems possible. It may have already been done. However, it seems
clear that many PK experiments which were, prima facie, successful, have
failed in a fairly obvious way to eliminate the possibility that the significant
scoring was due to precognitive ESP. In this section of my paper, I could
not, and shall not, attempt a complete and detailed examination of all the
PK experiments which have been performed. My purpose is, first, to
specify certain conditions which must be fulfilled by an ideal experiment,
and which have not apparently been fulfilled in many (perhaps all?) earlier
experiments : and then, to suggest an experimental design which would
close the loopholes which I am considering. I shall refer to some of the
Duke experiments in order to illustrate the nature of the loopholes in
question, but I do not wish thereby to detract from the value of the
pioneer work which has been done at Duke University.
The first loophole I want to consider has probably been noticed by
many psychical researchers, but I shall now elaborate it, to make my
argument clear, and shall later refer to it as Hypothesis i
.
In the dice-throwing experiments, the person who selects the target to
be " willed " by the " agent " may (unconsciously) precognise what face
(or group of faces, in high-dice or low-dice calling) is going to prepond-
erate above chance-average in the next throw or run, set or series : and
his choice of targets (including decisions when to change targets) may be
influenced by this supernormally acquired information. In many of the
Duke experiments, it seems to have been left to the " agent " to select the
target : but even if this is done by an experimenter, we may assume that
this experimenter hopes that the test will succeed, so that a motive would
exist to account for the direction of his " precognitive faculty " in this
way, and for the use to which, we are supposing, he unconsciously puts it.
An objectionable feature of many experiments is, then, that it has been
left to the spontaneous choices of agent or experimenter to determine the
targets at which the agent should aim. Rhine may be able to show us
that the declines within sets and runs are independent of changes of target
to a degree which renders hypothesis i most unplausible. I shall, how-
ever, argue that the ideal method of eliminating hypothesis i is to have
the targets selected in a random way by a machine, selected in such a way
that if precognition of the faces which will preponderate occurs in any
mind, this mind could not use this information in order to eflFect extra-
chance scoring loitJiout exercising control by PK over the target selecting
machine. Howe\ er, before we can state what sort of mechanical selection
of targets would achieve this object, we must consider a further loophole
which was left open in many of the earlier experiments. This may now
be stated briefly, and I shall refer to it in future as Hypothesis 2.
In the dice-throwing experiments the extra-chance scoring may be due
to control, normal or abnormal, by the agent of the processes in his own
body which " trigger " the movements of tlie dice.
lyS] TJie Experimental Evidence for PK and Precognition 65
Hypothesis 2 may appear, at first, to be merely the repetition of an
obvious criticism. It has often been suggested, for example, that when
dice are hand-thrown, some people may be able to get a preponderance of
the results they wish by means of a normally acquired manual dexterity.
Hypothesis 2 is intended, however, to put us on our guard against possi-
bilities which are more unexpected. Psychical researchers have treated
seriously the possibility of hyperaesthesia in connection with ESP.
Experimenters have recognised that they ought to consider whether, and
if so to what extent, ostensible ESP may be mediated by processes occur-
ring in the afferent nervous system, assuming abnormal sensitiveness and
discrimination on the part of the senses : they ought equally to consider
whether, and if so to what extent, ostensible PK may be mediated by
processes occurring in the efferent nervous system, assuming abnormal
control of such processes. The precautions to eliminate hypothesis 2 in
PK experiments should be as rigorous as the precautions to eliminate
hyperaesthesia in ESP experiments.
There is no doubt that hypothesis 2 can be applied to many of the Duke
experiments : for example, to all of those in which the agent performed
a manual movement which constituted a dilTerential condition of the sub-
sequent movements of the dice, and hence was a cause factor in deter-
mining the final resting positions of the dice on the table. Take, for
example, the experiments in which the dice were manually replaced in
" the same " positions on a starting line, and, after a release-movement
which was manually initiated, ran down a corrugated surface on to the
table. The physicist could argue here that you would get the same
result from every trial, if each of the following conditions were fulfilled :
{a) the same dice are always in exactly the same starting positions,
{b) the release movement is always identical in speed and direction,
(c) the positions of all the surfaces, which the dice strike in rolling,
remain unchanged.
But no one would expect conditions («) and {b) to have been fulfilled,
since they depended on manual movements. If we grant that the precise
positions of the dice at the moment of release and the speed and/or direc-
tion of the release movement were almost certainly variables as between
different throws, then we might explain the significant scoring by refer-
ence to abnormal control of the manual movements in question.
Differently designed experiments would provide different kinds of
opportunity for abnormal manual control as a factor which might affect
scoring. Consider the experiment in which dice were released from a
rotating cage when the agent pulls a string. In this case, even if the speed
and direction of the agent's pull were causally irrelevant, the timing of his
pull would have been relevant. In the rotating cage the dice are presum-
ably in motion relative to each other, to the cage and to the table. At one
instant the spatial distribution and motion of the dice would be such that
release then would result in an excess of high dice, at another instant . . .
in an excess of low dice. Significant scoring with this set-up might be
due to the agent's abnormal control of the timing of his motor behaviour.
This hypothesis is of theoretical importance, for it would enable us to
accept Rhine's facts, without regarding any mental events as proximate
differential conditions of any physical events other than those occurring
66 C. W. K. Mundle [Part
in the corresponding brain. Assuming that volitions are remote causal
ancestors ot some extra-chance hits, they would be performing this
role " by normal channels ", i.e. via brain, efferent nerves and muscles.
The old mystery of how mental events control cerebral events would
remain, would indeed be heightened by virtue of the extraordinary dis-
crimination which, upon this hypothesis, we should be attributing to the
causal efficacy of volitions. However, the physicist who ignores this
problem (how cerebral events are determined) could, on our present
hypothesis, still maintain [a) that we need invoke no causal connections
between events which are not linked by a spatio-temporally continuous
series of events, and (/;) that all the necessary conditions of any physical
event are contained in prior physical events and states. (I don't know
whether the physicists have decided whether they want to maintain these
propositions. They seem, when discussing Quantum Mechanics, to be
abandoning both the Principle of Continuity and Determinism in the
" microscopic sphere ", yet they seem to wish to retain both in the
" macroscopic sphere ".)
If hypothesis 2 is true, some human beings have an unexpected faculty,
but one which is not at all like PK as Rhine conceives it, and as it was
defined above : for we defined PK in terms of direct causal influence
of a mental event on an extra-somatic physical event ; but if hypothesis 2
is true, the causal connection between these events is not direct, but is
mediated by a continuous chain of physical events which start in the
agent's body.
Can we eliminate hypothesis 2? Can a person's volition influence the
course of events in external bodies except by way of motor processes (or
other physical processes of known kinds) in his own body.? It seems easy
to eliminate the agent's bodily movements qua difl^erential conditions of
the events which he seeks to influence. We simply debar the agent from
replacing dice in the release mechanism and from initiating the release
movement. But this is not enough. On the hypotheses in question,
agents have unexpected powers of controlling their movements—then
presumably experimenters may have like powers—so that any person who
manually replaced the dice or initiates the release-movement might be
responsible for the excess-hits. (In the Duke experiments, the experi-
menters knew the current target, and, we may assume, were hoping
—
whether consciously or not—that the experiment would succeed : and
even if the experimenters did not know the target by normal means, they
might have ascertained it by ESP.) We require, therefore, an experiment
in which all the events which the physicist regards as difl^erential condi-
tions of the events which the agent seeks to influence are determined by
machine. The use of a machine will not serve our purpose, if this machine
is operated by a manual movement, unless this manual movement is
rendered causally irrelevant to the physical processes which determine
the events which the agent seeks to influence. Now this point applies
to the elimination of hypothesis i as well as that of hypothesis 2. For, if
as previously suggested, we use a machine to select targets, hypothesis i
will not be conclusively eliminated unless any manual movements, by
which the target-selecting-machine is operated, are causally irrelevant to
the physical processes which determine the target selection. If this were
178] The Experimental Evidence for PK and Precognition 67
not so, the significant scoring might be attributed to precognition, plus
abnormal manual control of the targct-selecting-machine.
Let us consider now how these requirements can be met. It is probably
possible to eliminate hypotheses i and 2 in dice-throwing experiments,
and this may already have been done. I wish, however, to suggest one
method by which our aim could, in principle, be fulfilled, namely by an
experiment employing the " random selector " designed by Mr R.
Wilson.^ This is an electronic device which will give a random series of
selections from four alternative events, e.g. the lighting of one or other of
four lamps of different colours. Wilson designed this machine for ESP
tests, and was, for this purpose, content to have the operation of the
machine initiated by the manual pressing of a button. One of our pur-
poses being to eliminate hypothesis 2, we cannot allow this, since the
timing of the push would (if I understand the machine) constitute a
differential condition of the selection. We must, on hypothesis 2, take
seriously even the possibility of abnormal control of the timing of finger
movements to within 1/3200 of a second, which is the " critical period
'"^
for selection by this machine. Let us therefore have the operation
of the random selector triggered by the closing of a delay switch, whose
" spread is substantially larger than 1/3200 second. (This should
give us a wide choice of types of delay switch!) An essential specifica-
tion for the triggering mechanism will be that it is designed so as to
satisfy any physicist that no variations in the timing or force (or other
physical characteristics) of the manual push on the button can, by any
known physical process, affect the operation of the delay switch and hence
of the selector.
In my proposed experiment we shall employ two of Wilson's random
selectors : let us label them A and B. A single manual movement will
initiate the operation of both machines, but machine A will be operated
(and one of its four lamps be lit) a few seconds before machine B is
operated. To effect this, the same manual movement will simultaneously
activate two delay switches : the closing of the first switch will trigger
machine A, the closing of the second will trigger machine B. The role
of the agent will be to " will " that the lamp which is going to be lit by
machine B shall correspond in colour to the lamp which has just been
lit by machine A. For each trial, the sequence of events will be as
follows : An experimenter presses a button at time and thereby {a)
operates delay switch i which closes at time T., and thereby operates
machine A by which the agent is informed at time of the alternative
which he has to " will " : {h) operates delay switch 2 which closes at time
T'4, thereby operating machine B which produces one of the four alterna-
tive events at time T-^. The timelags 7", to 1\ and to Tj will be
negligible. Timelag 7\ to could be in the order of a seconcl or less.
Timelag to [i.e. the period delay switch 2 takes to close) could be
in the order of 5 to 10 seconds. The agent will be willing the correspon-
dence of the B event to the A event during the period to T-^. It would
^ For technical details of the apparatus, see Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XLVIII, Part 174.
^ By " critical period " I refer to the period, at any instant during which opera-
tion of the machine would cause the same lamp to light.
^ By the " spread " of a dela>' switch, I refer to the average deviation from its
average period of operation.
68 C. li: K. Mtmdie [Part
be an advantage if this period can be adjusted to meet agents' preferences
by adjusting the average timelag of delay switch 2. Other " frills " like
the automatic recording of A and B events could easily be incorporated.
If both these machines select alternatives randomly, then, in the
absence of any PK interference, the correspondence between A events
and B events will approximate to chance average (one hit in four). If
the results obtained, in (and only in) the presence of an agent willing
correspondence, yield a significant deviation from chance-average, it
would surely be impossible to explain this merely by reference to super-
normal cognition. Even if one (or both) of the machines fails to give a
perfectly random series and reveals some bias, this need not matter, for
we can determine the chance-level of correspondence empirically by
" control runs " of a number equal to the " real runs ", and regularly
interspersed with the latter : the only difference between a " control run
"
and a " real run " being the presence of a suitable agent who is willing
correspondence.
Suppose that this experiment succeeds in the sense that the correspon-
dence between A and B events obtained in the presence of an agent who is
willing correspondence differs significantly from the correspondence
obtained in circumstances which differ only in the absence of the agent
willing correspondence. I cannot conceive how we could attempt to
explain such facts without invoking PK. Even omniscience on anyone's
part—never mind a little precognition—would not explain the facts.
Precognition which was loo per cent efficient, and which informed some-
one of the next A event and the next B event every time (or informed
him instantaneously of all future members of the A series and the B
series) would explain nothing—it would merely furnish advance informa-
tion of the phenomena which demand explanation.
There are surely only two ways in which results of the kind we are
considering would be explicable in terms of supernormal cognition without
invoking PK.
{a) If precognition by any mind of the next B event could influence,
by any means other than PK, the selection of the corresponding
A event. (My hypothesis i illustrated a way in which this sort
of thing might happen in the Duke experiments.)
{b) If information about an A event (whenever or however acquired)
could be used to influence, by any means other than PK, the
determination of the next B event. (My hypothesis 2 illustrated
a way in which this sort of thing might happen in the Duke
experiments.)
The proposed experiment would eliminate both of these possibilities.
If anyone precognises the next B event, he cannot use this information to
influence selection of the corresponding A event except by PK influence
on the A machine. And equally, precognition occurring before time Tj
of the next A event would not enable the experimenter who presses
the button to influence the selection of the next B event by any known
physical process.
If the proposed experiment yielded the results we are envisaging, I for
one would be compelled to acknowledge PK as a vera causa ;
compelled
to acknowledge, that is to say, that a mental event is sometimes a proximate
178] 21ie Experimental Evidence for PK and Precognilion 69
differential condition ot physical c\cnts occurring in regions other than
that occupied by the associated organism.
The next stage in our enquiry is to ask whether we can obtain experi-
mental evidence for precognition, which cannot be otherwise explained.
Let us, for ease of reference, describe as Hypothesis 3, the theory that all
ostensible precognition can be explained away if we invoke PK and/or
non-precognitive ESP. Hypothesis 3 appears much more difficult to
eliminate than hypotheses i and 2. If hypotheses i antl 2 are eliminated
in the PK experiment suggested above (or by any other experiment), the
case for postulating precognition will be substantially weakened. For
consider in general terms the difficulty which has to be overcome in find-
ing unambiguous evidence for precognition.
Let us assume that an idea or a volition is something which can persist
in a person's mind when it is not introspectible, and can thus bridge the
time-gap between a so-called precognition and the event which verities it.
Then a so-called precognition (A), and the event (1) which verifies A",
may both be caused by the same persistent idea or volition (Z)—this
would explain the epistemological correspondence between A' and i'.
Assume, for simplicity, that Z belongs to the person (A) in whom
A' occurs. (Our explanation can easily be adapted to meet different
cases.) Then if Y is a mental event occurring in a person other than A,
Z may cause Y by way of telepathy ; and if T is a physical event occurring
outside the body of A, Z may cause Y by way of PK. (If A', i and Z all
belong to A, the explanation will fall within the scope of normal psycho-
logy.) Unless, or until, we can empirically determine the limits of both
telepathic and PK infiuence, how can we possibly eliminate hypothesis 3 ?
Bearing in mind this difficulty, let us examine the evidence for precogni-
tion offered by the experiments of Rhine, Soal and Carington.
Professor Rhine devised a very elaborate experiment to confirm the
occurrence of precognition. ^ He considered hypothesis 3 and attempted
to eliminate it. The first stage was to ask a subject to guess the order of a
pack of cards after it had been shuffled manually at a later date. It was
then recognised that the subject's " guesses " might influence the final
order of the pack by influencing the mind, and hence the fingers, of the
person who shuffled the pack. To eliminate this possibility, it was decided
to shuffle the cards by a machine. Then it was recognised that the
subject's " guesses " might perhaps exert a PK influence on the shuffling
machine. It was to eliminate this possibility that Rhine devised his
culminating experiment. This involved having the cards cut after they
had been mechanically shuffled ; and having both the cut and the duration
of the shuffling determined, in accordance with rules fixed in advance,
by the figures for the daily temperature extremes obtained from a specified
newspaper several days after the guesses had been recorded. Rhine
claims that this experimental design eliminates PK, because " the tem-
perature itself would have to be modified by the hypothetical effect in
question [i.e. PK] and this seems considerably more incredible tiian that
the [shuffling] machine might be influenced directly ".^
^ See T/ie Reach of the Mind, pp. 60-4, and Jnunial uj Punipsyetiology. Vol. 6,
No. 2, pp. 1 1 1-43.
^Journal of Parapsyetiology, op. eit., p. 134.
B
7° C. W. K. MimdJc [Part
When Rhine, in The Reach of the Mind, claims without quahfication
that this cuhninating expLiimcnt yielded significant results, his statement
might be considered misleading. For we find on turning to the report
in the Journal of Parapsychology that the results were not significant in
any obvious sense. After 57,550 trials the deviation of hits was only +11.
And, taking the results as a whole, the distribution of hits within runs
(of 25 trials) was not significant, nor was the distribution of hits within
segments (of 5 trials). The feature which led Rhine to judge the results
significant is what he describes as covariation between the salience ratio
for runs and the salience ratio for segments. (" Salience ratio " refers to
a measure of the tendency for hits to be concentrated at the ends, rather
than the middle, of a run or a segment.) This recherche feature is not
present to a very striking degree. (Rhine gives P = -ooi6.) Dr Soal has
suggested to me that this feature of the results may have been a
" statistical artefact ".
However, even if this experiment had yielded results which were
obviously significant, e.g. a significant deviation of hits, I suggest that we
would not have to look far for a flaw in Rhine's argument that the method
eliminated PK. For the temperature readings were presumably deter-
mined by someone looking at a thermometer, and a thermometer is a
mechanical device no more complicated than a card-shuffling machine.
If we admit, as Rhine does, that shuflling machines may be influenced by
PK, why should we assume that thermometers are immune from such
influence.'' In Rhine's experiment, a difference of one degree in a tempera-
ture reading would make a vast difference to the final order of the pack.
Let us turn now to the classic experiments with Mr Basil Shackelton,
conducted by Dr Soal and Mrs Goldney. An important feature of these
experiments was that the " telepathic targets " {i.e. the events which
Shackleton was trying to guess) were multiply determined—by one method
in the Prepared Random Numbers (PRN) series, by a different method in
the Counters series. (I am not going to examine the PRN experiments in
detail, since it seems to me that we could explain the results without
invoking either precognition or PK : we merely have to suppose that
Shackleton ascertained the current list of random numbers by telepathy
from EA or from Soal, and ascertained the current code by telepathy from
A. The only puzzle would be to explain why he tended to (so to speak)
" read off the answers " one or two steps ahead of the number to which
EA was attending.)
The method of selecting the target by counters may be briefly described
here. EA (experimenter controlling agent) sits at one side of a table,
A (agent) at the other side, a vertical screen being interposed between
them with a small aperture in its centre. Two hundred counters, forty of
each of five different colours, are placed in a cloth bag or a bowl on EA's
side of the screen ; the five colours correspond to the five positions in
which the animal cards are placed on A's side of the screen. The animal
cards are shuffled and placed face down in these positions after each run
of fifty calls. Thus the code between colours and cards is changed each
run. The procedure was that EA selected, manually and solely by touch,
a counter from the bag or bowl and immediately showed it at the aperture
178] TJie Expei iniciital Evidence for PK and Precognition 71
in the screen. A, on seeing this, hfted, and looked at the face of the
corresponding card. To assist A in remembering the fixed code relating
counter colours to card positions, a counter of appropriate colour is placed
above each card position.
In this case, it seems possible to explain the significant deviation of
Shackleton's ( + i) and ( + 2) scores in terms of " delayed-action " PK or
" delayed-action " telepathy. The events which the " percipient " (P)
was trying to guess, were partially determined by EA's manual movements
which occurred two to three seconds after P recorded his guess. We
might eliminate precognition by supposing that P's " guess " at time
{i.e. his thought of a certain card-face) sometimes infiuenced the finger-
movements which EA made two or three seconds later in such a way as
to result in EA's selection of a counter of corresponding colour. This
causal influence might be of the PK variety if P's idea directly influenced
EA's fingers or brain, or it might be telepathic if P's idea directly influenced
the mind of EA and thus indirectly guided processes in EA's brain and
fingers.
I suggest that we need not worry about the timclag between P's guess
and EA's finger movements. Assuming that an " idea " persists for some
time after it has been the object of conscious attention, it may be that
with some agents an idea acquires maximum PK-efficacy (and/or tele-
pathic-efficacy) when it is fading, or has just faded, below the threshold
of attention. We might on these lines explain Shackleton's tendency to
get ( + i) hits at normal speed and ( +2) hits at rapid speed. (Ehrenwald^
has produced a little evidence suggesting that an idea has maximum
telepathic efiicacy when it is in the preconscious or unconscious mind.)
Before we try to assess the plausibility of applying hypothesis 3 to
Soal's results, there are two considerations which should be taken into
account.
(i) Dr Soal and Mrs Goldney explicitly considered the telepathic
variation of hypothesis 3, and carried out two series of trials with the
purpose of testing this possibility. These are described in the section
headed " Special Experiment with Counters. (Influence of (P) on
(EA) ) which requires careful study. From these experiments they
drew the modest conclusion
—" we obtain no evidence that B.S. can
influence K.M.G.'s selection of counters from the bowl ". (K. M.
Goldney acted as EA in these experiments.) It might appear, however,
that one would be justified in drawing the more positive conclusion
—
that these experiments provided evidence that B.S. did not influence
K.M.G.'s finger-movements in either of the ways we are envisaging in
connection with hypothesis 3, and that hypothesis 3 is thus rendered very
unplausible as an explanation of B.S.'s ( + i) and ( + 2) scoring. I suggest,
however, that this conclusion would go too far.
In each of these special experiments, the conditions difl^ered from those
in which B.S. got significant results, and difl^ered in some respect which
may well have been relevant to his failure on these occasions. In the first
of these experiments, B.S.'s choices of cards were determined for him by a
list of random numbers, whereas in all of the other experiments his
choices were spontaneous. This difference did not, however, occur in the
^ Telepathy and Medical Psychology. '-
Op. cit., pp. 73-5.
72 C. II'. K. Mundle [Part
second of these experiments when B.S.'s choices were spontaneous. We
must notice, however, that in this experiment B.S. was being aslted to do
something completely different from what he was asked to do in all of
the successful experiments. He was now being asked to zvill that K.M.G.
should select a counter of the colour which he had chosen,^ whereas in
all of the other experiments he was asked to guess something. I suggest
that B.S. may have been able to influence K.M.G.'s fingers, but only
when certain conditions were fulfilled ; and one of the necessary condi-
tions may have been that B.S.'s state of mind should have been one of
" trying to guess something ". If anyone asks why this should have been
so, I should suggest that B.S. had reason to be specially confident in his
guessing capacities, in view of his past successes, which, whatever their
real nature, had been interpreted to him as supernormal cognition.
It may seem paradoxical to suggest that B.S. could exert PK influence,
but only when he was trying to do something else. But is this really
paradoxical.? Suppose that this special experiment had yielded significant
results—could we then have been sure that B.S.'s choices were influencing
K.M.G.'s choices, rather than the reverse, merely because B.S. was told
to will something and not to guess something? Can we, in any of the
experiments, take B.S.'s instructions (or his own description of his state
of mind) as a reliable criterion of the nature of the causal transactions in-
volved? Surely we are not entitled to do this, any more than we are en-
titled, in dice-throwing experiments where the " agent " chooses the target,
to assume that extra-chance scoring is due to PK rather than precogni-
tion merely because the subject was told to will, and not to guess.
(ii) There is another argument which might be advanced to show that
hypothesis 3 cannot plausibly be applied to Shackleton's results. It
might be argued that we could not explain these results merely by refer-
ence to a single series of " acts " of PK (or to a single series of " acts " of
telepathy) from P to EA : that hypothesis 3 would only become plausible
if we postulated further series of supernormal " acts ". Would we not
have to elaborate some such story as the following :
[a] that the current code between colours and card-faces was ascer-
tained by P by telepathy from A.
(/)) that the relative positions of EA's fingers and the counters at the
crucial moments was ascertained by P by clairvoyance,
(f) that P used the above information to guide the PK influence on
EA's fingers.
A difl'erent story would be required on the alternative version of hypo-
thesis 3 (in which P influences EA by telepathy), but this story, too, would
involve three distinct series of supernormal " acts ".
// hypothesis 3 had to be interpreted in this way, then an argument
against it might be elaborated as follows. The average efficiency of each
of the three series of supernormal " acts " must have been considerably
higher than their net resultant efficiency. But Shackleton's efficiency in
( + 1) and ( + 2) scoring was in fact high (compared with the usual level
of scoring in ESP experiments), e.g. in several long runs Shackleton's
efficiency was in the order of 12-5 per cent true cognitions. Hypothesis 3
'
The experimental record is not explicit on this point, but I have obtained
confirmation from Dr Soal that this is what B.S. was asked to do in this experiment.
I
lyS] The Experimental Evidence for PK and Precognition 73
would thus require us to postulate an average efficiency of about 50 per
cent for each of the series of supernormal acts which we are invoking.
This looks very unplausible. One might think that hypothesis 3 could
be rendered progressively less plausible by devising experiments which
would require more and more series of supernormal " acts ".
I do not think the above argument is conclusive, or even strong, but I
think it deserves careful analysis, as it raises some fundamental issues.
It seems plausible to say that B.S. could only have influenced EA's fingers
appropriately if B.S. was guided by supernormally acquired information.
The main issue here is whether PK implies ESP—a conclusion which
Rhine took to be certain when he wrote The Reach of the Mind. We
rarely find Rhine using an a priori argument, but he does so in order to
justify this conclusion.^ This argument has already been challenged by
Professors Broad^ and Price. ^ Rhine's conclusion is reached by an argu-
ment from analogy, and the analogy is not a strong one. He is assuming
that PK must be analogous to normal voluntary action in which we
interfere with environmental objects, in so far as both must be guided by
perception of some kind : and since normal sense-perception cannot
supply the data by which PK could be intelligently guided, he concludes
that the data must be supplied by ESP. But since PK is so strikingly
different from normal voluntary action in some respects (notably in not
using the efferent nervous system), can we argue that PK must resemble it
in another respect—in being a perceptually guided process, in being an
intelligent response to information.^
Professor Price has suggested that we may be wrong in thinking of PK
as a perceptually guided process, and that perhaps the appropriate con-
ceptual model is that of ideo-motor action. The sort of occurrences which
Price presumably had in mind were cases where the thought of a bodily
movement, e.g. yawning or stretching a limb, issues automatically into
the corresponding behaviour, provided that it is not inhibited by some
other idea. Does anyone believe that the idea of yawning can only issue
into a yawn if it is guided by information regarding the physical changes
in the brain which precede or accompany yawning? Surely we do not
want to attribute to the unconscious mind of every child a knowledge of
physiology far exceeding that attained by physiologists merely because it
usually yawns when it thinks of yawning! Now the point of assimilating
PK and ideo-motor action is that it suggests that, in PK, an idea may be
realising itself in an external physical event without being guided by
information about the physical mechanisms which precede or accompany
the event in question.
I wonder if it might be possible to test experimentally whether PK
is guided by ESP. This may seem a tall order, but I shall suggest a
way in which something might be subtracted from the probability
of this proposition. Rhine's acceptance of this proposition may have
been partially conditioned by his exclusive use of dice-throwing in PK
'
Ibid., p. 106, " If PK had been discovered without any previous knowledge of
ESP, the latter would immediately have had to be assumed to make the former
intelligible," cl seq.
Proc, Vol. XLVIII, Part 172, p. 22.
* Mind, Vol. LVIII, No. 231, p. 392, et seq.
74 C. IV. K. Mundle [Part
experiments. (We all know, or think we know, what sort of interference
is required to alter the course of a moving body.) I wonder if Rhine
would have concluded that PK implies ESP if some of his PK experiments
had been designed around electronic devices? Suppose we use Wilson's
random selector and try some comparative PK tests between :
(A) agents who are scientifically educated and to whom the mudiis
operandi of the selector is fully explained, and
(B) agents who are scientifically illiterate and not " mechanically-
minded ", and who are told a simple false story about the modus
operandi.
If the scoring of Group B were as high as that of Group A, it would be
very difficult to entertain seriously the view that PK must be guided by
ESP. Let anyone who thinks it possible, try to formulate a detailed
account of how PK could be so guided in the case of Group B. He
would, I think, find it necessary to postulate supernormally acquired data,
and powers of instantaneous calculation, so extensive as to be well-nigh
incredible.
How can we apply this line of thought to the experiments with
Shackleton? We must admit that B.S.'s thoughts could only have influ-
enced EA's fingers appropriately if his thoughts influenced them in con-
formity ivith the current code relating colours and card-positions. But
this code was known by A from the beginning of each run. A possible
explanation of the results is that EA's fingers were influenced jointly by
B.S.'s guesses and A's knowledge of the code : or—to put it diff^erently
—
that the function of PK agency (or telepathic agency as it may have been)
was split between B.S. and A. This explanation might have appeared
far-fetched before Dr Soal had made the " telepathy " experiment with
Mrs Stewart,^ in which she obtained highly significant results from two
agents, neither of whom knew the targets. This experiment indicates
that thoughts belonging to two different people can jointly influence the
finger movements of a third person. (Notice that we have no means of
telling whether Mrs Stewart's finger movements in recording her guesses
were influenced by PK or telepathy.)
The argument we are dealing with is that my explanation of B.S.'s
results implies the occurrence of more than one series of supernormal
acts. Let us see where the same argument would lead us if we applied it
to explaining Mrs Stewart's results. These, it would be said, must have
been due to at least two series of supernormal acts {e.g. either Mrs
Stewart must have performed two acts of telepathy, or else she must have
" tapped the mind " of one agent, who had " tapped the mind " of the
other agent.) However, if this were so, we should expect Mrs Stewart's
scoring to be substantially lower in this experiment than in the experiments
where only one agent was used. The results belie this interpretation, for
Dr Soal tells us that tlie scoring in this experiment was not appreciably
lower than in the others. We must conclude then, that processes which
occur in the minds of different people can be as efficient in the joint
production of supernormal effects, as are processes which occur in a single
mind. This conclusion surely invalidates the criticism, which we have
been considering, of my alternative explanation of B.S.'s results.
' The Experimental Situation in Psychical Research, pp. 42-3.
178] Tlie Exf'ei iiiieiita! Evidence for PK and Precognition 75
I wish now to consider Carington's classic experiments in tlie para-
normal cognition of drawings, which furnished our first experimental
evidence for " temporal displacement ".^ Can we formulate a version of
hypothesis 3 by wliich the ostensible precognition can be explained away?
I may well be muddled, but I cannot think of any way of doing this
which seems at all plausible.
Prima facie, we might think that there is as much scope here for
invoking PK interference as a factor determining the selection of " tele-
pathic targets ", as there was in the case of Soal's experiments. Carington
tells us that " to select the subject matter of each drawing, I opened a copy
of Chamber's Mathematical Tables at random, noted the last digit of the
first three or four entries encountered, turned to the corresponding page
of Webster's Dictionary and took as the subject for the drawing the first
reasonably drawable word found on or after that page ". This was done
and the drawing made within half an hour of zero hour for its display.
Might we not then suppose that a PK infiuence was exerted on Carington's
finger- (or eye-) movements (or a telepathic influence exerted on
Carington's mind) to determine the selection of the " original " drawing?
(The fact that Carington opened the Tables at random seems to give more
scope for such interference than if he had followed a set principle in
opening the Tables.) But by ivhom can we suppose such influence to
have been exerted?
The novel feature of Carington's results was the clustering of extra-
chance hits, more or less symmetrically around the occasions on which
the drawings were displayed, yielding a curve which approximates to an
inverted U-curve with twin peaks corresponding to the occasions, two
before and two after the display of the originals. Being a fool about
mathematics, I could not try to apply hypothesis 3 to Carington's results
as they stand : for the latter do not reveal any regular curve with respect
to this or that individual original drawing. Carington's curves emerge as
a result of statistical aggregation and analysis of his data. I cannot see
how to try to apply hypothesis 3 at all, unless I think in terms of a simpli-
fied model, that is, unless I assume that the inverted U-curve would
apply to hits made on a single original on different occasions before and
after its display. I shall assume that if Carington's curve is a " lawful
phenomenon " and not a freak, it would be exhibited by the hits on any
single original if we ran a series of experiments with a much larger number
of percipients than Carington employed. Strictly, then, I am using, as
the premise of my argument, not Carington's data as they stand, but an
interpolation. My argument will have no probative value unless we can
confirm by further experiments that this interpolation is warranted.
Suppose, then, that we find the inverted U-curve in the hits made on
difTerent occasions by many percipients on one original drawing. In that
case, to whose agency could we attribute PK or telepathic influence on
the selection of the original? The number of different percipients getting
extra-chance hits would increase during the days (weeks) before the display
of the original, and would decline in a similar way during the days
(weeks) ?fter the display. Could we explain the facts by supposing that
one of the " percipients ", call him P, has an idea or complex which has
1 Proc, Vol. XLVI, Part 162.
76 C. W. K. Mundle [Part
PK efficacy and/or telepathic efficacy?—by supposing that P's complex
influences supernormally the selection by the experimenter of the original,
and influences supernormally the bodies or minds of other " percipients
"
so as to make them draw likenesses of this original? To say this may at
flrst sound plausible, but in fact this theory would contribute nothing
towards explaining the peculiarities of the results, namely the particular
shape of the curve, and its position on the time-base (or " occasion-base ").
Why should the hypothetical complex of P produce an increasing (and
decreasing) number of hits by other percipients before (and after) the
occasion of display? If the display of the original performs no indepen-
dent causal role, why should not the assumed PK and/or telepathic-
influence of the hypothetical complex of P be randomly distributed
throughout the experiment ? I can see no way of answering these questions
unless we make ad hoc assumptions about the properties of the hypotheti-
cal complex of P ; unless we say that the PK or telepathic efficacy of this
complex waxes and wanes in phase with the " hits curve ". (Even if we
say this, we have not explained the awkward fact that the peaks of the
hits curve occur before and after the occasion of display, i.e. before and
after the only time at which P's complex is supposed to influence the
experimenter who selects the original.)
But what sort of a theory is this? Surely a preposterous one. The data
are that a single known event (the display of the original) occurs at the
(temporal) centre of a cluster of similar events. Does it make sense to
oflier as a causal explanation of these facts a story according to which all
of the known events are efli^ects of some unverifiable entity : according to
which the peculiar pattern of the known events are " explained " by
assuming that the " powers " of the hypothetical entity vary in a similar
pattern?
Surely it is methodologically unsound to explain the characteristics of
known events by attributing them to a duplicate set of characteristics
belonging to unverifiable entities which are invoked ad hoc : unsound, at
any rate, when it is possible to explain the facts without doing this sort
of thing. And in the case in question, we can explain the temporal
clustering of the hits by regarding them as the several effects of a single
known event which occurred at the (temporal) centre of the cluster. The
obvious advantages of this last explanation are (i) that it is much the
simplest hypothesis, and (2) that all the entities involved in this explana-
tion are empirically known occurrences. These are not perhaps decisive
reasons for choosing the latter hypothesis. In other sciences, the relative
simplicity of a hypothesis is counted as a reason for preference ; but
perhaps we should attach less weight to this criterion in psychical research,
for the facts seem very complicated and the truth cannot be very simple.
And regarding the second consideration, I think (and here I disagree with
Carington) that we are not likely to make great progress in understanding
supernormal phenomena if we adhere to a strictly empiricist philosophy.
Must we not, for example, postulate unconscious mental processes? Yet
these are unverifiable entities. Thus our argument has not, strictly
speaking, proved anything. All we can say is that the obvious explanation
of the facts seems preferable to a version of hypothesis 3 on the grounds
of simplicity and of the principle " empiricism as far as possible ".
178] The Experimental Evidence for PK and Precognition 77
I think, however, that I can see a third reason for accepting the obvious
explanation : it is the sort of reason I should put to a fellow-philosopher
—
but he might (and others probably will) find it inconclusive. I suggest
that the following complex relational property (a) is one of the criteria by
which we recognise causal connection and by which we distinguish a
cause {i.e. a differential condition) from its effects.
" Spatial (or spatio-temporal) clustering around a central event or pro-
cess of a set of events or processes which are, structurally and/ or
qualitatively, similar to each other." It might be argued that this property
is part of what we mean by " causal connection ".
We have described property a in abstract terms, so perhaps an illustra-
tion will be helpful. Consider, for example, the group of wireless receivers
which are tuned to a given wavelength for a given period : in the vicinity
of each receiver will be occurring processes which are qualitatively and
structurally similar, e.g. the sound of a certain symphony. If an observer
could ascertain the (virtually) simultaneous occurrence of these processes,
he would conclude, even if he were completely ignorant of the modus
operandi of wireless transmission, that they were causally connected. If
he could also ascertain the spatial (or spatio-temporal) centre of this group
of processes, he would conclude that their causal source was some process
occurring in this region. Now there is a criterion which would enable an
observer to locate this central region (I am assuming, for simplicity, that
there are no relay stations). Even if we ignore the fact that the further
you go from the centre, the later the signals arrive (and our observer could
only detect this fact if he were an accomplished and well-equipped
experimenter!) : nevertheless, our observer could discover a spatial
clustering in respect of the " volume " or loudness of the sounds, that is
to say, he could discover the fact that the further one moves in any direc-
tion from what is the location of the transmitter, the weaker, ceteris paribus,
is the volume.
To return to Carington's results—these reveal a property which is very
similar to, though not identical with, property a, namelv property /3 (as
we shall call it), viz. " a purely temporal clustering, around a central event
or process, of a set of events or processes which are, structurally and/or
qualitatively, similar to each other ". The clustering in question is not
spatial, for Carington found that the spatial relations between the bodies
of the various percipients and of the experimenter are completely irrelevant,
and this irrelevance of spatial relations is confirmed by other experiments
in ESP. Surely property /3, just as much as property a, is a criterion of
causal connection. It has not hitherto been recognised as such, and it is
certainly not part of what we have hitherto meant by " causal connection ",
for prior to Carington's experiments we had never come across any
instance of property /3.
If this is granted, we may now point out that the facts which revealed
property /3 furnish us with a criterion of the direction of causal influence,
other than the common-sense criterion (that this influence is always froin
earlier to later events). There are characteristics in Carington's data
analogous to the fading of volume as we move further in any direction
from the broadcasting transmitter : for we find the " hits " dwindling as
the temporal distance from the occasion of display increases, and we find
78 C. W. K. Mimdle [Part 178]
that this dwindling occurs in both temporal directions—before and after
—
in a symmetrical manner. We may notice, in passing, that Carington's
method of scoring was designed to enable us to apply a single numerical
measure to numbers of hits and accuracy of hits. If it were possible to
assess these factors separately, we might find two distinct criteria of the
direction of causal influence if the dwindling, in both temporal directions,
applies both to numbers of hits, and to the degree of resemblance of hits
to the original. We could find an analogy for this in our broadcasting
illustration, in that as distance from the transmitter increases, not only
does volume decline, but distortion tends to increase. However, we must
not press our analogy too far, for it is in many respects imperfect. The
conclusions I wish to emphasise are that if we accept property j8 as a
criterion of causal connection
(i) we can find at least one criterion of the direction of causal influence
which is independent of the common-sense criterion ;
(ii) we must regard Carington's results as indicating precognition, that
is to say, must conclude that some of the extra-chance " hits ",
which were drawn before the display of the original drawing,
were causally influenced, in the manner defined earlier, by the
drawing or display of the original.
My tentative conclusion is that our evidence that PK and precognition
are independent phenomena will become very formidable, if not con-
clusive, if and when we have {a) obtained results similar to Carington's
in similar experiments using larger numbers of percipients, and {b)
eliminated hypotheses i and 2 in PK experiments.
It seems necessary to apply very strict standards when trying to isolate
PK and precognition, since we must surely accept what Driesch stated^
as our first methodological principle
—" no phenomenon may be admitted
as fundamental if it can be in any way reduced to another, or represented
as only a variant of it ". If a hypothesis, e.g. that precognition occurs
(or e.g. that PK occurs), can be established by a single unambiguous
experiment, this will contribute an immense increment to the probability
that other facts which can be most simply explained by the same hypo-
thesis are correctly so explained, even if other more complicated
explanations of these facts are also possible. Whether hypothesis 3 can
be plausibly applied to the spontaneous cases of ostensible precognition is
another story. I hope that someone more familiar with those cases will
examine this question. In concluding, I wish to record my debt to
Professor Price, Dr Soal and Dr Thouless for many helpful suggestions,
without which this paper would have been very much more inadequate
and incomplete.
'Hans Driesch, Psychical Research, Bell & Sons, 1933, p. 110.
IMMANUEL KANT AND PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
By C. D. Broad
Part I
Historical
It is plain that at a certain period of his life, viz. in the sixth decade of the
eighteenth century, Kant became interested in the experiences and specu-
lations of another Immanuel, the Swedish seer Swedenborg. At that time
Kant was about 40 years old. He had begun to lecture as privat dozent
in the university of Konigsberg in 1755 or 1756, and he did not become
professor until 1770. He had already thought and written much about
physics, astronomy, and geography, and had devoted himself to the old-
fashioned metaphysics in which he had been brought up. But the system
of " Critical Philosophy ", for which he was to become world-famous, was
still in the future. The first sketch of it is contained in his inaugural
dissertation on becoming professor in 1770.
Swedenborg was 72 in 1760. The only work of his to which Kant
refers is the Arcana Coehslia. This had been published anonymously in
London by John Lewis of Paternoster Row in eight large quarto volumes
from 1749 to 1756. According to Signe Toksvig, Swedenborg's recent
biographer, the authorship was first acknowledged in 1768. Presumably
it had been an open secret for some time ; for Kant, in a work published
in 1766, takes it for granted that Swedenborg is the author, and makes no
suggestion that the Arcana Coelestia was anonymous.
So far as I am aware, there are two and only two known writings of Kant
which are concerned with Swedenborg and his doctrines. One is a letter
to Miss Charlotte von Knobloch, the other is a book entitled Trdiimc eines
Geistersehers erldutert durch die Trdume der Metaphysik. The " Geister-
seher " is Swedenborg. The letter contains about 1900 words, the book
about 20,000. Kant lacked the art of condensation ; he was, to put it
plainly, terribly long-winded. The letter abounds in stilted compliments,
and the book in elephantine badinage.
(i) Questions of dating. The book was published anonymously in
Konigsberg and in the same year in Riga by another publisher. There is
no doubt that the date of publication was 1766. But there is a serious
muddle about the date of the letter, which I will now briefly consider.
The letter appears to have been first published by Kant's biographer
Borowski, and it was alleged to be dated " Konigsberg, 10 August, 1758 ".
It is printed with that date in Vol. II of Hartenstein's edition of Kant's
works. But, unless Kant was an even more remarkable seer than Sweden-
borg himself, this date is impossibly early. Hartenstein's attention was
called to the point, and in the preface to Vol. Ill he discusses the question
of the correct date. He quotes arguments by Kuno Fischer and Ueberweg
which seems to show conclusively that it must have been 1763.
79
8o C. D. Broad [Part
We need not go into elaborate detail, but the following fact suffices to
make any date earlier than 1762 impossible. Kant refers in the letter to an
incident in which Swedenborg seemed to show supernormal knowledge
of a matter private to a certain princess in Stockholm. There is no doubt
that this lady was Lovisa Ulrika, sister to Frederic the Great and wife to
king Adolf Fridrik of Sweden. Now in his book, in which he also refers
to this incident, Kant says that it happened late in 1761. This statement
has been confirmed by the fact, which came to light many years later, that
the Swedish courtier, Count Tessin, recorded the incident in his diary on
Nov. 1 8th 1 76 1 as having happened three days earlier. (My authority
for this is Signe Toksvig's book.) It is plain, then, that news of it cannot
have reached East Prussia much, if at all, before the beginning of 1762.
Moreover, in his letter to Miss von Knobloch, Kant says that he had
learned the story from a friend, that they had corresponded about it, and
that he had instituted various enquiries. All this would plainly take some
time.
I think that we may accept the arguments of Fischer and Ueberweg to
show that the letter to Miss von Knobloch cannot have been written
before 1763. Hartenstein states and adduces evidence that she married
in July 1764 and became Frau von Klingsporr. Now Kant addresses her
in the letter as " gnddiges Frdidein ", which would have been absurd if she
had been married at the time. So we may take it that the letter was
written some time in 1763, i.e., about three years before the publication
of the book.
We do not know precisely when the book was written, but I think that
it is certain that it was written after the letter. In the letter there is no
suggestion that Kant has read any of Swedenborg's writings. He says that
he is eagerly awaiting the appearance of the book which Swedenborg is
about to publish in London, and that he has made arrangements to get it
as soon as it leaves the press. Now it is certain that Kant had carefully
read Swedenborg's Arcana Coelestia before writing Traume eines Geister-
sehers. So it is reasonable to conclude that he wrote the latter book some
time after 1763 and some time before 1766.
I have gone in some detail into the question of the relative dates of
writing the letter and the book, for the following reason. Where the
contents of the two overlap they seem to express a very different attitude
towards Swedenborg and his alleged supernormal gifts and achievements.
The letter is rather strongly favourable, whilst the book is completely
agnostic in its conclusions and decidely sneering and condescending in
tone. In view of the fact that the book must have been written after, and
cannot have been written long after, the letter, this contrast is of some
interest.
I will now give a general account of the contents of the two writings.
(2) The Letter. It is plain that Miss von Knobloch had written to
Kant some time before, to ask his opinion about a story which she had
heard concerning a certain display of ostensibly supernormal knowledge
on Swedenborg's part. It is evident from the context that the story
concerns queen Lovisa Ulrika's letter to one of her brothers, and it will
be as well at this point to give an account of the events from indepen-
dent Swedish sources which were not available to Kant or to Miss von
1 78] Iiiiiiiautiel Kant and PsycJiical Research 81
Knobloeh. In what follows I base my statements on Signe Toksvig's book
on Swedenborg.
Count Tessin, a Swedish nobleman connected with the court at Stock-
holm, kept a diary, which has since been published. On November 18th
1 76 1 he made an entry to the following effect. A story had been going
around Stockholm concerning a recent feat of ostensible clairvoyance
performed by Swedenborg with reference to the queen. Tessin asked
Swedenborg for the details on November i8th. Swedenborg thereupon
gave the following account to Tessin. About three weeks earlier he had
had a conversation with the king and queen, and had told them of some of
his experiences in confirmation of his theories. The queen asked him
jokingly to try to bring her a message from her dead brother (the late
Prince of Prussia), if he should happen to meet him in the spirit- world.
On the Sunday before November i8th Swedenborg again presented
himself at the palace and asked for an audience with the queen. He then
told her something privately, which he had been enjoined not to mention
to anyone else. The queen was much moved, and exclaimed :
" That is
something which no-one could have told except my brother!" On his
way out, Swedenborg said, he met Councillor von Dalin and asked him to
inform the queen that he would try to follow up the matter further for her.
So far Swedenborg's story to Tessin. He added that the queen had
had a great shock, and that he would not venture to disturb her again
until at least ten or twelve days had gone by.
Tessin, on his own account, states that the queen's consternation at
Swedenborg's message is testified by all who were present. He mentions
in particular Councillor Baron von Scheflier. He adds that the queen's
account of the incident tallies with Swedenborg's, and that she has herself
put Swedenborg to a new test. It should be mentioned that there is no
evidence that Swedenborg ever did approach her again on this topic. It
is, however, alleged (on what evidence I do not know) that, whenever she
was asked about the incident in later life, she either acknowledged the
truth of the story or changed the subject in an embarrassed way.
Signe Toksvig states that, after the queen's death, Count A. J. von
Hopken, a Swedish statesman and friend of Swedenborg's, wrote an
account of the incident. It appears from what he says that the queen had
been carrying on a secret correspondence with this brother, notwith-
standing that Sweden and Prussia were at war with each other at the time.
Hopken's story is that the message which Swedenborg delivered referred
to the last letter written by the queen to her brother before his death.
Swedenborg, who claimed to have made contact with the spirit of the
deceased prince, conveyed an apology from him for not having answered
the letter and an appropriate reply to it. According to von Hopken, the
queen said :
" No-one but God knows this secret!
"
We can now return to Kant and Miss von Knobloeh. Kant begins by
apologizing for his delay in answering her enquiry. He says that he
thought it desirable to investigate the matter further before writing. He
states that he is by no means inclined to accept such stories lightly. He
thinks that it is a sound rule to take a negative attitude towards even
the best-attested of them. He does not indeed deny the possibility of
such alleged facts, for we know so little about the nature of a spirit, if
82 C. D. Bi nad [Part
such there be. But he thinks that, taken as a whole, such stories are not
adequately attested. Then, again, the alleged phenomena are so un-
intelligible, and, even if genuine, so useless, that it is hard to accept
them. Lastly, there are so many instances of proved fraud and credulity.
Kant sums up this part of his letter by saying that, until he became
acquainted with the stories about Swedenborg's feats, his attitude towards
alleged supernormal phenomena was completely negative.
He then proceeds to tell how he was brought in touch with these stories,
and how he tried to investigate them.
(i) The Queen s Letter. This incident was first brought to Kant's
notice by a Danish officer, a friend of his who had formerly attended his
lectures. The account given by this Danish officer to Kant was as follows.
(I shall add explanatory historical notes in square brackets. They are
based on statements in the preface to Vol. Ill of Hartenstein's edition of
Kant's works.)
The Austrian ambassador in Copenhagen, Dietrichstein [who held
office from 1756 to 1763], received a letter from Baron von Liitzow, the
ambassador from Mecklenburgh to the court of Stockholm. In this letter
von Liitzow stated that he, together with the Dutch ambassador to
Stockholm, had been present at what Kant calls " the curious history
which you " (Miss von Knobloch) " have already heard concerning
Swedenborg ". (I take this to mean that the two ambassadors had been
present at the queen's reception when Swedenborg made his communica-
tion to her.) Dietrichstein in Copenhagen had either read or shown this
letter to the Danish officer and other guests at a party.
Kant says that he thought it unlikely that one ambassador would send
to another a false account of an incident concerning the sovereign to
whose court he was attached, and would moreover send it in a letter
intended to be communicated to others. He therefore wrote to the Danish
officer and made further enquiries of him.
The officer said in his answer that he had again spoken to Dietrichstein
on the matter, that the facts really were as stated, and moveover that
Professor Schlegel had assured him that there was no possibility of doubt.
(I do not know what weight, if any, is to be attached to this confirmation
by Schlegel. It must be regretfully admitted that " what the Professor
said " is not, as such, evidence.) The officer added that he was about to
depart to the army under General St. Germain, and he advised Kant to
write directly to Swedenborg. [St. Germain became a Danish field-
marshal in 1760. The Danish army was mobilized in 1762 to meet a
threatened attack by the czar Peter III.] Kant accordingly wrote to
Swedenborg, and the letter was handed in by an English merchant in
Stockholm. Swedenborg had received the letter favourably and had
promised to answer it, but no answer had as yet come.
So much for the Danish officer. In the meanwhile Kant had made the
acquaintance of a certain Englishman who had been in Konigsberg in the
summer before the date of writing. Kant describes him as " a fine man ",
says that he had become very friendly with him, and obviously has great
confidence in him. This Englishman was about to visit Sweden, and
Kant asked him to go into the whole question of Swedenborg's alleged
marvels while there. (Signe Toksvig seems to assume without question
178] ImmamieJ Kant and Psvchical Rcscarcli 83
that this man ^vas Kant's great friend, the EngHsh merchant Green. I do
not know it there is any evidence for this. No name is given to him in the
letter.)
The EngHshman did as Kant had asked him and wrote to Kant several
letters describing his investigations and impressions. In his first letter
he said that the statements of all the most distinguished persons in Stock-
holm supported the story about Swedenborg and the queen. He had not
yet met Swedenborg, but hoped to do so shortly. He found it hard to
believe the stories which highly sensible persons in Stockholm were telling
about Swedenborg's intercourse with the unseen world.
In later letters the Englishman said that he had met Swedenborg and
had been in his house. He describes the seer as a pleasant open-hearted
man and a scholar. Swedenborg told him that God had given him the
power to communicate at will with departed spirits, and he appealed to
quite notorious evidence in support of this. When reminded of Kant's
letter to him, Swedenborg said that he had received it. He was going to
London in the May of that year and would there publish a book in which
a complete answer to Kant's questions would be found. (According to
Signe Toksvig, Swedenborg visited Amsterdam in 1762 and again in 1763.
He was in England on a short visit in 1763, during which he delivered
copies of his printed books to the Royal Society. But he did not visit
England in 1762 and he published no such book as he had spoken of to
the Englishman.)
Kant then proceeds to relate, on the evidence of his English friend, two
other stories of ostensibly supernormal cognition on Swedenborg's part.
These are the incidents of the lost receipt for Mme de Marteville's silver
tea-service and of the fire on Sodermalm in Stockholm. They are well
known and often quoted ;
but, so far as I am aware, there is no extant
evidence for them except this letter of Kant's, quoting statements from
letters of his unnamed English correspondent. Kant says in his letter to
Miss von Knobloch that " the whole living public " is witness to these
events, and that his friend, who relates the stories, " has been able to
investigate them on the spot ". I will now reproduce Kant's account of
these two incidents as reported by his English correspondent.
(ii) The lost Receipt. M. de Marteville was ambassador from Holland
at the court of Stockholm. [He died April 25th, 1760.] Some time after
his death the goldsmith Croon demanded from the widow payment for a
silver service which her late husband had bought of him and which had
been duly delivered. She was convinced that the bill had been paid ;
but she could not find the receipt, and was in considerable distress, as the
sum was a large one. She invited Swedenborg to call, explained the
circumstances to him, and asked him to try to get in touch with the spirit
of her husband. Three days later Swedenborg called on Mme de Marte-
ville at a time when she had company to coffee. He said that the receipt
was in a certain bureau upstairs. She answered that this was certainly a
mistake, for that bureau had been cleared out and thoroughly searched
and the receipt was not among its contents. Swedenborg answered that,
if she would pull out the left-hand drawer, she would notice a certain
board. If this were pulled out, a secret compartment would be disclosed,
containing not only the receipt but also the late ambassador's private
84 C. D. Broad [Part
Dutch correspondence. The whole company adjourned to the room, the
drawer was opened, and everything was found as Swedenborg had foretold.
Two points are worth mentioning. In the letter the name of the
ambassador is given as Harteville, but in the book it is given correctly
as Mai teville. The second point is that, if the incident happened at all,
it must have done so in the latter part of 1760. If the correct date of Kant's
letter is 1763, his friend was presumably in Stockholm some time in 1762.
So about two years would have elapsed between the incident itself and the
Englishman's enquiries about it.
(iii) The Stockholm Fire. Kant says that this story seems to him to have
the greatest probative force of them all, and that it is free from all possible
doubt. He gives the date as " towards the end of September 1756 ".
Dates seem not to have been Kant's strong point, for in Trdume eines
Geistersehers he assigns it
" towards the end of 1759 ". Hartenstein gives
the date of the fire as July 19 1759, and quotes as his authority P. 77 of
Part 121 of a German periodical called Neue genealogische-historische
Nachrichten for 1760. It would be worth while, if it has not already been
done, for some Swedish investigator to enquire whether there is any
contemporary account of the alleged incident in public or private records
either in Stockholm or in Goteborg. It should be remarked that serious
fires were very common in Swedish towns, which were largely built of
wood, and that presumably Stockholm was no exception. It should also
be noted that the distance between Goteborg and Stockholm is about
285 miles by the present main-line railway.
The story in Kant's letter is as follows. Swedenborg landed at Goteborg
from England at 4 p.m. on a certain Saturday. He was invited by a Mr
Wm. Castell to dine at the latter's house with a party of fifteen persons.
At about 6 p.m. Swedenborg left the company for a short while and
returned looking pale and alarmed. He said that a dangerous fire had
broken out on Sodermalm in Stockholm, where his own house stood.
He was restless and went out several times. He said that the house of a
certain friend, whom he named, was already in ashes, and that his own
was in danger. At 8 p.m. he again came in after a short absence and said
that the fire had been quenched at the third door from his house. These
statements of Swedenborg's were reported the same evening to the
Governor of Goteborg. Next morning, i.e., Sunday, the Governor inter-
viewed Swedenborg, who described the fire in some detail and said how
it had begun and how long it had lasted. On the Monday evening came a
messenger, who had left Stockholm on the Saturday while the fire was
going on. He brought letters with him, in which the fire was described
in a way which tallied with Swedenborg's statements. On the Tuesday
morning the royal courier from Stockholm arrived at the Governor's
house with a precise account of the damage and a statement that the fire
had been put out at 8 p.m. on the Saturday.
Kant says that his English friend has investigated all this, not only in
Stockholm, but also during a stay of about two months in Goteborg, where
he is acquainted with the chief business houses. Kant adds that, in the
short time which has elapsed since 1756, most of the eye-witnesses are
still alive. (If the correct date is 1759, the time-lapse is considerably
shorter, for the linglish friend was presumably in Sweden in 1762.)
178] Immanuel Kant and Psychical Research 85
Kant ends his letter to Miss von Knobloch by mentioning that his
EngHsh friend has told him something of Swedenborg's accounts of his
intercourse with the spirits of the dead and of conditions in the spirit-
world. Kant says that he wishes that he could himself have interrogated
Swedenborg on these matters, because his English friend is not skilled
in framing and putting those questions which would throw most light on
essential points.
(3) Trdume eines Geistersehers. We can now leave the letter and con-
sider the book. This is a very curious production in itself. Moreover,
a comparison of it with the letter raises interesting, but perhaps insoluble,
questions about Kant's motives for writing it at all, for publishing it
anonymously, and for adopting towards the subject in general and Sweden-
borg in particular the bantering contemptuous attitude which he does
adopt.
The book begins with a preface, and the rest of it is divided into two
Parts. Part I, which is subdivided into four Sections, may be described
as an able and elaborate general discussion of the philosophical problems
involved in the notion of a disembodied spirit, of a world of such spirits,
and of the relations of body and soul in human individuals, and in claims
by certain men to be in touch with the inhabitants of the spirit-world.
It is not directly concerned with Swedenborg or his experiences. Part II
is subdivided into three Sections. The first of these repeats the three
stories of Swedenborg's alleged feats of ostensibly supernormal cognition
which were discussed in the letter. The second Section contains an
elaborate account of the doctrine as to the nature and laws of the spirit-
world which Swedenborg professed to have derived by personal observa-
tion and from conversations with spirits. This account is based upon the
contents of the eight quarto volumes of Arcana Coelestia, which Kant had
bought and evidently studied carefully. So far as I can judge, Kant's
synopsis of Swedenborg's main doctrines is adequate, accurate, and clear.
The third Section is entitled Practical Conclusion of the Whole Treatise.
The practical conclusion is, roughly, that we should cultivate our gardens,
and not waste our time with either what metaphysics or what self-styled
mediums claim to tell us about the spirit-world. Speculation about that
world is fruitless. It can give no support to genuine morality, whilst, on
the other hand, any morally good man feels assured of human survival
without recourse either to metaphysics or to alleged mediumistic evidence.
I will now consider in somewhat greater detail the part of the book
which covers the same ground as the letter, viz. Part II Section I. In the
letter, as we have seen, the story of queen Lovisa Ulrika's interview with
Swedenborg about her brother is told on the authority of the Danish
officer reporting a letter from von Liitzow in Stockholm to Dietrichstein
in Copenhagen. The other stories are told on the authority of the English-
man, who has interviewed Swedenborg and investigated the evidence for
the tales of his exploits at Kant's special request. The impression which
one gets from the letter is that Kant was satisfied with the evidence, at any
rate as regards the Stockholm fire.
In Part II Section I of the book Kant introduces the topic by saying
that " the whole question is neither important enough nor sufficiently
well prepared to enable one to come to any decision about it ", and that
86 C. D. Broad [Part
he presents these stories " with complete indifference to the favourable
or unfavourable judgment of the reader ".
As regards the story about queen Lovisa Ulrika, he does not mention
her by name, but speaks of her as " a princess . . . whose great intelligence
and insight would make it almost impossible that she should be deceived
in such matters ". The authority for the story is stated to be a letter from
an ambassador at her court to another ambassador in Copenhagen. Kant
adds that the story agrees with what has been elicited in answer to special
enquiries. There is no mention of the Danish officer, but Kant is no
doubt referring to his correspondence with him.
The story about the missing receipt is now correctly referred to Mme
de Marteville instead of Harteville. Kant now says that this tale " has no
other testimony than common report, which is very inadequate proof ".
As regards the story of the Stockholm fire, Kant says that it is " of a
kind which could very easily be completely proved or disproved ". At
the end of this Section, after a great deal of palaver, he says that it would
be worth while for anyone, who had money enough and nothing better
to do, to go and investigate these and similar stories at first hand. He
gives no hint that a friend of his, of whom he has a very high opinion,
has personally investigated the evidence for the story of the Stockholm
fire both in Stockholm and Goteborg ; that this friend was persuaded of
its truth ; and that Kant himself, in a recent letter dealing expressly with
this topic, had described the story as free from all possible doubt. In fact
the Englishman, who first brought the second and third of the stories to
Kant's notice, and who had investigated the whole question of Sweden-
borg's alleged supernormal feats at Kant's special request, is never
mentioned in the book. Kant does indeed admit, in the Preface, that he
himself has made some investigations into the truth of such stories. But
he almost apologizes for having done so, and he asserts that he " found
—
as is usual where there is nothing to seek—nothing ".
Towards the end of Part I Section IV Kant says that he would not
venture to deny all truth in such stories. He doubts each severally, but is
inclined to give some credence to them taken collectively. He remains
" serious and undecided " in view of them. Nevertheless, he ends this
Section by saying that for the future he will " abandon investigations which
are altogether in vain ". (This remark, in view of its place in the book,
may refer rather to the metaphysical speculations about spirits in Part I
than to the alleged empirical evidence in Part II.) Towards the end of his
synopsis of Swedenborg's teachings about the nature and laws of the
spirit-world (Part II Section II) Kant says that one might be inclined to
attach some weight to his unverifiable statements about the next world, if
and only if one could appeal to testable instances of alleged supernormal
knowledge by him, and if one were to find that they are supported by
Hving witnesses. " But ", Kant adds, " this one never finds ". How this
last remark is to be reconciled with statements which I have quoted from
Kant's letter to Miss von Knobloch, I do not profess to conjecture.
At this point we may well ask ourselves what Kant's motives could have
been for writing and publishing Trdiime eines Geistersehers. In the Preface
he gives two reasons. One is that he wrote the book at the instigation of
friends, known and unknown. Towards the end of Part II Section II he
178] Immanuel Kant and Psychical Research 87
repeats that he was put on to this thankless task through the importunities
of idle and curious friends. From their point of view the enquiry has led
to nothing and has been mere waste of time. The second reason which he
gives in the Preface is that he had bought and read through a big book, viz.
Swedenborg's Arcana Coelestia, and did not want all his work to be wasted.
Early in Part II Section II he describes this book as consisting of " eight
quarto volumes of nonsense ". Later in the same Section he remarks that
he has saved the curious reader from spending jCj sterling in satisfying a
little idle curiosity.
Obviously these cannot have been Kant's main motives. He was not at
all a wealthy man and he was a very busy one. It is most unlikely that
he would have spent £y on the Arcana Coelestia and then ploughed
through it and given a careful synopsis of its teachings about the spirit-
world merely to satisfy the idle curiosity of some or to save the pockets of
others. We must remember the statement in the letter to Miss von
Knobloch that he is impatiently awaiting the book which Swedenborg is
about to publish in London and that he has made arrangements to get it as
soon as it leaves the press.
I would suggest very tentatively that what may have happened is this.
Instead of getting the book which he was expecting, viz., an account by
Swedenborg of those of his ostensibly supernormal cognitions which were
open to verification in this world, together with adequate testimony for
them, he was landed with the eight volumes of the Arcana Coelestia.
This is largely occupied with an elaborate symbolic interpretation of every
word and sentence in the books of Genesis and Exodus. It may fairly be
described as one of the most boring and absurd productions of any human
pen. After reading it Kant may well have been inclined to dismiss with
contemptuous impatience the alleged supernormal feats of a person who
could devote a large part of his life to writing such stuflF, and to ignore the
fact that he himself had very recently been fully persuaded of the veridical
nature of some of them, through the testimony of the Danish officer and
the English friend. It was as if one had heard on very good evidence that
Mr. X had made certain bold but highly ingenious emendations to difficult
passages in classical texts, and had then found that he was a British
Israelite whose published works were mainly devoted to proving, by help
of measurements on the Great Pyramid, that the earth is flat and that
Bacon wrote all the works commonly attributed to Shakespeare. If Kant
could have picked up Swedenborg's De Coelo et Inferno, a single volume
published in London in 1758, he would not indeed have got what he was
expecting, but he would have found a tolerably succinct account of
Swedenborg's doctrine of the spirit-world, and would have been saved
much time and money and justifiable irritation.
However this may be, Kant says explicitly that he had a different end
in view from that of the friends whose idle curiosity set him upon writing
the book. His subject is metaphysics. That science has two functions.
One is to try to answer the questions which enquiring minds raise when
they seek to investigate by reason the more deeply hidden properties of
things. The other is to consider whether such questions are concerned
with anything that we can possibly know, and to see what relation they bear
to our empirical concepts, on which all our judgments must ultimately
88 C. D. Broad [Part
be founded. The essential service which it renders in its second capacity
is to show that we must keep within the bounds of ordinary sense-
perception and ordinary reasoning. The upshot of the book is to rein-
force that conclusion in reference to claims, such as Swedenborg's, to
empirical knowledge beyond those limits.
Lastly, we might raise the question : Why did Kant publish the book
anonymously.' If there had been a good chance of the anonymity being
preserved, one could think of excellent reasons. Kant no doubt wished to
keep a good reputation as a level-headed burgher, scholar, scientist, and
philosopher, and not to incur the contempt of his colleagues and fellow-
townsmen or to prejudice his chances of eventual election to a professor-
ship. Even in England and the U.S.A. to-day an acknowledged addiction
to even the most respectable branches of psychical research would probably
be somewhat detrimental to the professional prospects of a young biologist
and still more to those of a young psychologist. In Sweden, unless I am
much mistaken, it would still be almost fatal to one's chances of a pro-
fessorship in many subjects. It is reasonable to suspect that, in " en-
lightened " academic circles in East Prussia in the middle of the eighteenth
century, a reputation for having carefully read Swedenborg's writings and
having paid serious attention to the evidence for his alleged feats of
clairvoyance, would be enough to condemn a privat dozent to remain in
that position for the rest of his life.
But could Kant possibly have hoped to preserve his anonymity? This
seems to me almost incredible. I should have thought that the style of
the book as a whole and the contents of the philosophical part of it would
have betrayed the authorship to colleagues in Konigsberg almost at once.
Moreover, the " idle and curious friends ", who had urged Kant to make a
study of Swedenborg, could hardly have felt any doubt as to the authorship
of an anonymous book on the subject in which they are explicitly referred
to, and they could hardly be relied upon to keep their suspicions to
themselves. I can only suggest that the conventions of the time and place
permitted a privat dozent to flirt with this disreputable subject, provided
that he made an honest man of himself by maintaining theform of anonymity
and by adopting a sufficiently bantering and condescending tone towards
the alleged phenomena and the persons of whom they were narrated. If
these were the conditions, Kant certainly complied with them.
Part II
Theoretical
I shall now consider Kant's philosophical discussion of the problems
raised by Swedenborg's theories and claims. It seems to me that it is of
some interest to do this. We have at our disposal nowadays much more
varied, better attested, and more carefully investigated data than Kant had,
but there has been very little discussion by first-rate philosophers of their
theoretical implications. Kant was certainly one of the greatest philo-
sophers of all time ; he combined to an extraordinary degree critical
acumen and constructive fertility and originality. He had also a most
remarkable capacity for " sitting on the fence " and stating the strong and
178] Immanuel Kant and Psychical Research 89
the weak points of opposing concepts. This is very noticeable in his
discussion of mechanism and vitalism in the Critique of Judgment, and it is
almost equally prominent in Trdume eines Geistersehers.
(i) What is a Spirit? Kant begins by raising the question : What do
we understand by a " spirit "? We often use this word, so presumably it
means something, even if it expresses only a fictitious idea.
We cannot have derived the notion of a spirit from instances of it which
we have ourselves observed, for we can use the word intelligibly even if
we doubt or deny that there are spirits. Kant remarks here that many of
our notions, though not derived from specific experiences in the direct way
in which, e.g., the notion of " red " or of " man " is derived, yet arise
on the occasion of certain experiences by a kind of unwitting inference.
Such notions may be called " surreptitious " (erschlichene). They may
be in part mere fictions of the imagination ; but they may be in part
applicable to reality, for these unwitting inferences need not always be
mistaken.
In order to understand Kant's attempted definition or description of a
" spirit " it will be best to begin with a brief account of his doctrine of
matter.* For his account of spirits is developed in comparison and
contrast with the notion of matter. I shall state what I understand to be
Kant's view in my own way. He assumes that any finite body consists
of a number of simple material substances. Each of these is, in a certain
sense, located at some one geometrical point at each moment, though it may
be located at different points at different moments. He further assumes
that no two such substances can be located at the same geometrical point
at one moment, though one of them may at a later moment be located at
the point at which another was located at an earlier moment.
Now Kant equates the proposition that two simple material substances
cannot be located at the same point at the same moment with the pro-
position that any such substance exerts upon any other a repulsive force,
which increases rapidly as the distance between the points at which they
are located is diminished beyond a certain critical amount, and which
would become infinite if this were reduced to zero. He points out that,
although a simple material substance is indivisible and is in one sense
located at a point, yet there is an important sense in which it occupies a
finite volume. This is obvious enough. I have so far talked of a puncti-
form element of matter located at a point and surrounded by a certain
field of repulsive force. But one could more properly identify the elemen-
tary material substance with this field, and say that it is present with more
or less intensity at any point within the sphere in which the repulsive
force is appreciable. The essential fact is that there is a field of repulsive
force which is at each moment symmetrical in all directions about a certain
singular point at which it is infinite. If one identifies the elementary
substance with this symmetrical field of force, then one can say that it
is located at any moment at the centre of this field, and one can say that it
dynamically occupies at any moment, with systematically different degrees
of intensity, every point within a small sphere around that centre.
Kant remarks that all this is consistent with the statement that a simple
* A theory on the same lines was worked out in considerable detail by Boscovich
and published in 1763 at Venice.
C. D. Broad [Part
element of matter is unextended. To say that a thing is extended implies
that it would be significant to say that it would occupy a volume even if
nothing but it had existed. But the field of repulsive force associated with
a single element of matter is a mere fiction unless there is at least one other
element of matter. Repulsion in accordance with a certain law of variation
with distance is meaningless unless we conceive that there are at least two
elementary substances to repel each other.
It should be remarked that Kant gives the following reason for associat-
ing a finite sphere of repulsive force with each simple element of matter.
A continuous macroscopic body fills a finite volume, and Kant argues that
any substance which is a genuine part of it must therefore occupy a
volume which bears a finite proportion to that which is occupied by the
body as a whole. Now a point is a Itinit in, not a part of, a volume. There-
fore a continuous macroscopic body could not consist of elementary
particles which were punctiform and nothing more. I take it, therefore,
that his final theory is that a continuous macroscopic body is composed of a
fiiiiie number of spherical fields of repulsive force, each centred around a
different point within the volume which the body fills, each having
appreciable intensity only within quite a small radius, and each increasing
rapidly towards infinite intensity as the distance from the centre decreases
towards zero.
We are now in a position to consider Kant's definition of a " spirit ".
In view of the account just given of elementary material substances, it is
plainly useless to define a spirit as a simple rational substance. For its
simplicity will not distinguish it from an elementary material substance.
And the addition of " rational " will not help. For, Kant says, we know
nothing about the internal properties of elementary material substances.
So far as we know, there is nothing to prevent such a substance being
rational, though there is also nothing to suggest that any of them are so.
Accordingly Kant adds two negative characteristics to distinguish a
spirit from an elementary material substance. The first is that the
presence of a spirit in a region of space would not involve any resistance
to the entry of an elementary material substance into that region. The
second is that, if we imagine each of the elementary material substances
which together make up a finite continuous body to be replaced by a
spiritual substance, the resulting aggregate would not be a body occupying
the volume occupied by the original body. The second feature evidently
follows from the first. If the volume were occupied after the change, in the
way suggested, by a collection of spirits, there would be no reason why
matter from outside should not freely enter it ; since a spiritual substance
does not oppose the entry of an elementary material substance into the
region which it occupies. But, on the other hand, to say that the region
was continuously occupied by a body after the change, would entail that
matter could not enter it from outside without either shifting the present
contents or encountering ever-increasing opposition if they could not be
shifted.
So, in effect, Kant's proposed definition of a " spirit " is a rational
simple substance whose presence in a region of space does not offer any
resistance to the simultaneous presence of an elementary material substance
within that region. And an immediate consequence of this is that the
178] Immanuel Kant and Psychical Research 91
presence of any number of spirits within a region, however they might be
located within it, would not eo ipso constitute a body continuously filling
that region.
(2) Are there Spirits? The next question is whether there is anything
answering to this definition. Kant holds that philosophers have proved
satisfactorily that anything which thinks must be simple, and that the
ego of each one of us cannot be a whole composed of a plurality of inter-
connected substances. So each of us can be sure that his soul is a simple
substance. But it does not follow that it is a spirit in the sense defined.
For there is nothing in these arguments to show that it would not oppose
the entry of any material substance into any region in which it was present.
And so there is nothing to show that a suitable aggregate of human souls
would not constitute a finite continuous body.
The question now arises whether " spirits ", in the sense defined, are
even possible existents. I think that the essential points in Kant's argument
might be put as follows. The question comes to this. Is there any
inconsistency in supposing that there might be simple substances which,
like elementary material substances, are or may be present in space in a
sense which does not involve their being extended, but which, unlike them,
do not offer any resistance to the entry of elementary material substances
into the regions which they occupy?
Now Kant distinguishes between cases where one has a positive rational
insight into the possibility of something, and other cases where one has no
such insight and one's only ground for saying that so-and-so is possible
is that experience provides us with actual instances of so-and-so. He does
not give any examples of the first alternative, but I think that it is quite
easy to do so. One has rational insight into the fact that five and only five
forms of regular solid are possible in Euclidean space, and that one of these
possibilities is the regular icosahedron. One does not just find oneself
forced to admit that the icosahedron is a possible form of regular solid
because actual instances of such a solid have been observed. (It is in fact
very doubtful if instances existed until they were constructed by makers of
mathematical models in order to illustrate the already recognized possi-
bility.) On the other hand, one has no rational insight into the fact that
blue is one of the possible colours ; one knows that it is so merely because
one has seen blue objects.
Kant argues that we have no rational insight into the possibility of the
connexion between being a simple substance and being located at a point
in space and occupying a sphere around it with a field of repulsive force
of a certain kind. We ascribe this punctual location and this sphere of
repulsive force to the elements of matter merely because of certain facts
which we observe when we perceive and operate with matter in bulk.
Still less do we perceive any necessary connexion between the various factors
in the notion of an elementary material substance. As regards the concept
of a spirit, we have no rational insight into either the possibility or the
impossibility of a simple substance occupying a region of space and yet not
being located at the centre of a field of repulsive force. Thus, so far as
regards rational insight into the possibility, impossibility, or necessity of
the combination of certain factors in a concept, the concept of a spirit is in
precisely the same position as that of a simple element of matter. We
92 C. D. Broad [Part
have no such insight in either case. The only advantage enjoyed by the
latter over the former is that we have certain perceptual experiences which
establish its possibility by providing actual instances of it. Kant's con-
clusion is that the possibility of " spirits ", as defined by him, can never be
refuted. But there is no hope of ever getting rational insight into it, and,
unlike the concept of simple material substances, its possibility can never
be established through instantiation by sense-perception.
(3) The human Soul and its Body. As we have seen, Kant holds that,
although it is certain that a human soul is a simple substance, it is by no
means certain that it is a " spirit " in the sense defined. For, so far as we
can tell, it might be a simple material substance endowed with rationality.
We must now consider his further discussion of the embodied human soul.
Suppose that the human soul were a spirit in the sense defined. Then
the question could be raised : What is its place in the material world?
Kant answers that the place occupied by the body which a person calls
his body would be the place occupied by his soul. Suppose that we then
raise the question which would run in my terminology as follows : At
what point within the place occupied by a person's body is his soul located?
Then Kant suspects that the question is based on mistaken pre-supposi-
tions. If I may put the matter in my own way, the mistake might be
expressed as follows. In the case of a simple element of matter one can
distinguish a certain geometrical point, within the region which it
dynamically occupies, as the point at which it is located. One can do this
because of the peculiar structure of the field of repulsive force which is
characteristic of an elementary material substance. The peculiarity is that
the force falls off in intensity in all directions symmetrically from a certain
singular point at which it would be infinite. But a spirit has been defined
as a simple substance which is fiot associated with a field of repulsive force
of that kind. Yet, except on the assumption that it is so associated, the
question : "At what point is a spirit located within the region which it
dynamically occupies? " is meaningless.
Now, so far as empirical facts go, Kant thinks that it would be reasonable
to say that a person's soul is present equally at every place at which it
would be natural to locate any of his sensations. As he puts it : "I feel
the painful pressure when my corn pains me, not in a nerve in my brain,
but at the end of my toe." In general, Kant holds that there is nothing
in our experience to support the Cartesian view that the soul is located at a
certain point in the region occupied by the brain. He says that he knows
of nothing which would refute the Scholastic doctrine that a person's soul
is present as a whole in his body as a whole and in every part of it. This
would not make the soul extended. For its immediate presence through-
out a whole volume would imply only a finite region of immediate action
and passion, as in the case of a simple element of matter, and not a plurality
of parts logically independent of each other.
Kant then proceeds to discuss the Cartesian view that the soul is located
at a point within the region occupied by the brain. He asserts that the
only empirical evidence for this is that, after hard thinking, one is liable
to feel characteristic sensations of stress and pressure in one's head. But
a similar argument, starting from other empirical facts, would locate the
soul in other parts of the body, e.g., in the heart or the diaphragm. Kant
178] Immanuel Kant and Psychical Research 93
suggests that the reason why hard thinking is felt to take place in the head
may be the following. It always takes place by means of symbols, and
these are always visual or auditory images. Now visual and auditory
sensations are specially connected with the head, because the eyes and ears
are part of it ; and it is very likely that visual and auditory imagery
involves the same, or nearly the same, parts of the brain as the corre-
sponding kinds of sensation. For my own part I should have thought that
the grounds, whether they be good or bad, for the Cartesian view are
certain anatomical and pathological facts, which seem to show that the
sensory nerves are transmissive conditions, without which stimuli that
affect the peripheral parts of the body fail to produce sensations in the soul.
Kant holds that it is scarcely worth while to discuss direct arguments
for and against the Cartesian view of the location of the soul, because we
know so little of the soul's nature that any such arguments are inevitably
very weak. It is more profitable to consider certain implications of the
theory.
He thinks that the following would be one of them. On the Cartesian
view the soul would not be distinguished from an elementary material
substance by the way in which it is in space. Each could properly be
said to be located at a point, though each would also be dynamically
present throughout a certain small volume surrounding that point. Now
reason is a purely internal property, which we should not be able to
perceive with our senses in elementary material substances even if they
possessed it. There would therefore be no empirical objection to sup-
posing that the simple elements of matter are all endowed with reason,
and that a person's soul is just one such simple material substance among
the millions of others which together make up his body. Its outstanding
position would be due merely to the special situation which it occupies in
a certain natural machine (the body), viz., at the place where the con-
nexions of neural paths enable its inner faculties of thinking and choosing
(which it shares with all other elementary material substances) to affect
and be affected by the outer world. If this were so, would not the most
reasonable conclusion be that a human soul (which would be just a simple
material substance that has, by an extraordinary chance, come to occupy
this special position in an appropriate natural machine) would revert after
death for the rest of eternity to its normal condition of a simple element
of matter.?
Another consequence of the Cartesian view would be this. There would
be a certain one tiny bit of a person's brain, the removal of which would
suffice to de-animate him. Kant then points to the fact that there are
plenty of cases where a man has lost a fair proportion of his brain without
losing his life or his power of thinking. He does not elaborate the argu-
ment ;
and, as it stands, I do not think that it proves anything against the
Cartesian. Let us suppose, however, that it were true that for a certain
part Pj of the brain there is an instance of a man who survived and con-
tinued to think after that part, or a larger part containing it, had been
removed. Suppose that a similar proposition is true for parts Po,
P3, . . . .P„. Lastly, suppose that Pi, Po, -P,, together cover the whole
of a human brain. (They might to some extent overlap each other ; the
important point is that they should be collectively exhaustive, not that
94 C. D. Broad [Part
they should be mutually exclusive.) Then, it seems to me, the Cartesian
theory would begin to look very shaky. But whether there is such a set of
empirical facts, I do not know.
So much for Kant's reactions to the Cartesian doctrine. He confesses
that, as a matter of personal conviction, he is much inclined (i) to assert
the existence of spirits, in the sense defined, and (ii) to regard his soul as
such a substance. He adds that, whatever reasons there may be for these
convictions, they apply equally to all living beings. It seems to Kant that
the essential peculiarity of a living organism is to be to a certain extent
spontaneous and active from within, i.e., to have some power of deter-
mining its own actions and modifying itself by something analogous to
choice in human beings.
Now it is characteristic of inorganic matter that it occupies space by a
non-voluntary force which is limited by external counteraction. So it is
difficult to believe that living organisms would have the features of
limited self-determination and quasi-choice if they were composed entirely
of elementary material substances. The upshot of the discussion is that
Kant thinks it likely that there is something analogous to a spiritual
substance wherever there is a living organism, or at any rate an animal
organism. We cannot possibly expect to have clear ideas of the various i
possible grades of such little-understood entities as non-material simple
substances. But at any rate we can distinguish those which are at the basis
of the manifestations of purely animal life from those which include reason |
as part of their spontaneous activity. Only the latter would properly be '
called " spirits ".
If a human soul is a spirit, then the connexion between it and the
organism which it animates is a great mystery. On the one hand, it has
to be conceived as forming, together with the body which it animates, a
whole of a peculiar kind, viz., a certain human individual. On the other
hand, if the soul be a spirit, none of the well-known kinds of combination,
e.g., that of the parts of an organism or of a crystal or of an artificial
machine, can be characteristic of this whole. How can a bodily substance
act on a spirit, which, by hypothesis, offers no resistance to its entry into
the place which it occupies?
Kant says that it would seem necessary to suppose that a spirit acts i
on the simple elements of a body, not in respect of the external repulsive I
forces by which such elements interact with each other, but directly in
respect of their inner states. It seems obvious to him that every substance
must have inner states and undergo a series of inner changes which are the
foundations of its external relations and their changes. Leibniz, as is well
known, held that these inner states are of the nature of perceptions. Kant
says that the numerous philosophers who have laughed at this theory may
be invited to say (i) whether they think that there could be substances with
no internal states but only variable external relations to other substances,
and (ii) if not, whether they can think of any better account of the inner
states, on which the external actions depend, than to say that they are
analogous to perceptions. To say that every simple element in a body has .
inner states which are somewhat analogous to perceptions would not of
course imply that the body as a whole has anything of the kind.
The upshot of Kant's discussion of this topic could perhaps be stated
178] Imtnanuel Kant and Psychical Research 95
as follows. A change in the inner state of material element A produces a
change in that of material element B only indirectly. It does so by being
correlated with a change in the external field of force of A, which is
correlated with a change in the external field of force of B, which is cor-
related with a change in the inner state of B. But a change in the inner
state of a spiritual substance affects the inner state of the material elements
of the body which it animates directly by a kind of telepathic rapport.
A fortiori this must be the way in which one spiritual substance affects
another spiritual substance.
Kant says that he does not pretend to understand how a certain spirit
and a certain body come to form one human individual at conception,
nor how this union comes eventually to be dissolved on the occasion of
fatal accident or disease.
(4) The Spirit-world. We can now pass from Kant's discussion of the
nature of a spiritual substance and the problems raised by embodied
spirits to his discussion of the notion of a world of inter-related spirits.
The phenomena of inorganic matter can be explained satisfactorily in
terms of extension, figure, motion, impenetrability, and various natural
forces expressible in mathematical terms and subject to the laws of
mechanics. But there are also living organisms in the world. As we have
seen, Kant thinks that there must be substances of a special kind behind
vital phenomena. These cannot be regarded as subject to the laws of
motion in general or impact in particular. On the contrary, they seem to
govern themselves and to organize non-living matter by their own inner
activity.
Kant admits that the only satisfactory explanations of particular
phenomena in physiology, etc., are in physico-chemical terms ;
though
he thinks that men like Stahl (who used vitalistic conceptions and termino-
logy) have often been led to discover important facts which were overlooked
by men like Boerhaave (who carefully eschewed them). We do not know
how far life extends in what we take to be inorganic matter, and in any
case the most that we can know of the influence of immaterial agencies in
organic nature is that it exists, not how it operates or how far it extends.
But Kant holds that, subject to these limitations, we can conclude, with
reasonable though not demonstrative certainty, from vital phenomena to
immaterial organizing entities obeying peculiar laws of their own. In so
far as these laws are concerned with the effects produced by these entities
in living matter, they may be called organic laws ; in so far as they refer
to the mutual interactions of such entities, they may be called pneumatic
laws.
Now it would hardly be plausible to suppose that these immaterial
entities are connected only indirectly with each other, through the inter-
connections of the various bodies with which they are severally connected.
For it might well be argued that at any moment only a comparatively
small proportion of the immaterial substances are connected with bodies ;
that even these are also directly interconnected ; and that their connexion
with bodies is contingent and transient, whilst their direct interconnexions
are intrinsic and permanent. So it is plausible to suppose that all these
immaterial substances are interconnected directly to form a single system,
which we could call the immaterial or spiritual world.
96 C. D. Broad [Part
This world would include (i) zW finite intelligences, some of which would
be united to living organisms to constitute persons, and others not
;
(ii) the sensitive souls of all animals ; and (iii) all organizing entities in
nature, even when the vital phenomena which evince them do not include
spontaneous movements. All these three kinds of immaterial substance
would form a system which does not depend on the peculiar conditions
which govern the relations of bodies. Here, e.g., spatial and temporal
separations, which make the great clefts in the material world, would be
non-existent, though there might be other conditions of separation. A
human soul during its earthly life would be a member of two worlds. As
embodied, it would be especially associated with a certain region of space
and stretch of time, and it would perceive clearly and affect voluntarily
only certain limited portions of the material world. But, as a member of
the spiritual world, it would not be located in physical space-time, and
there is no reason to think that spatio-temporal categories of any kind
would be applicable to it. In that capacity it would receive and impart
influences of an immaterial kind. At death only the direct relations with
other immaterial substances would remain, and the soul would become
clearly aware of them.
We can now conceive the following possibilities, (i) That, even in this
life, each human soul is in close connexion with the rest of the immaterial
world, acts on it, and receives influences from it. But under normal
conditions it is unaware of these actions and passions, (ii) That dis-
embodied spirits have no conscious sense-perception of the material world.
For such a spirit is not connected with any particular organic body to form
a person, and thus has no location in the material world and no bodily
organs through which to perceive and act upon it. (iii) That disembodied
spirits can influence and be influenced by souls which are animating
human bodies, since these are of the same nature as they and stand in
direct mutual relations with them. But disembodied spirits could not
receive and assimilate those ideas in embodied souls which depend upon
the body and its relations to the rest of the material world. Conversely
embodied souls could not receive and assimilate the intuitive cognitions
which disembodied spirits have of themselves and of other immaterial
entities. At best each party could receive such ideas from the other only
in a symbolic form.
Kant then considers certain psychological and ethical facts about men,
which he thinks flt in very well with the hypothesis that our souls live
in these two worlds. I am bound to say that I do not find his argument
at all clear or convincing at this point.
One set of facts which he adduces is this. Each of us strongly desires
certain kinds of unity and co-operation with other men, and feels strong
pro-emotions towards such relationships, not as a mere means to his own
preservation or happiness, but for their own sake. Such desires and
emotions often conflict with others which are purely self-confined, such
as desire for one's own happiness, fear of death, etc. Each man, e.g., quite
directly desires and values the recognition and approval of himself and his
actions by others. He likes to compare what he thinks good and true with
what others think good and true ; he is disturbed if there is a difi'erence
of opinion ; and he tries to secure agreement. Kant says that all this is
178] Immanuel Kant and Psychical Research 97
" perhaps a feeling of the dependence of one's own judgments upon the
universal human understanding, and a means of creating a kind of unified
reason for the whole thinking being ". I take " the universal human
understanding " to mean the supposed system of directly interconnected
human spirits, embodied and disembodied ; and I take " creating a kind
of unified reason for the whole thinking being " to mean increasing the
unity of that system in such a way and to such an extent that it consti-
tutes a kind of rational super-individual mind. If that is Kant's meaning,
it seems to me to be an hypothesis which is barely intelligible in itself and
derives little support from the empirical facts adduced in its favour.
Kant then passes from these to another set of facts which he considers
to be " more illuminating and easier to see " for the present purpose.
These facts seem to me to be a strange mixture, and the interpretation of
them which Kant proposes is far from clear to me.
I think that it will be best to translate the main passages. They nm as
follows. " If we consider outer things in reference to our needs, we cannot
do so without at the same time feeling ourselves to be bound and limited
by a certain feeling which makes us notice that a foreign will, as it were,
is active in us and that a necessary condition for our own will and pleasure
(BeliebeTi) is the concordance {Beistimmung) of others. A secret power
compels us to direct our intentions to the welfare of others or in accordance
with the choice of others, although this often goes against the grain and
strongly conflicts with selfish inclinations. . . . From this arise moral
motives . . . the rigid law of obligation and the weaker one of benevolence,
both of which extort many sacrifices from us. In consequence of this we
perceive ourselves to be dependent in our innermost motives on the rule
of the universal will. From this there arises in the world of all thinking
beings a moral unity and a systematic constitution according to purely
spiritual laws. If we like to give the name moral feeling to this felt com-
pulsion on one's own will to adjust itself to the universal will, we are
speaking of it merely as a phenomenon which does in fact occur in us,
without expressing any view as to its causes ".* (Kant then compares this
to Newton's use of the word " gravitation " to describe the mathematical
formula to which the mutual attraction of matter does in fact conform, and
not to suggest or imply any particular theory as to the causes of this
phenomenon. But, he says, Newton had no doubt that the phenomenon
of gravitation does evince a fundamental and universal activity of matter.)
The quotation now continues as follows. " Would it not be possible to
think of the phenomena of moral motivation in thinking beings, in respect
of their mutual relationships, as a consequence of a genuine active force by
which spiritual beings influence each other.? In that case moral feeling
would be the felt dependence of one's private will on the universal v/ill.
It would be a consequence of the natural and universal interaction, by
which the immaterial world attains its moral unity as it develops into a
system of spiritual completeness in accordance with the laws of its own
interconnexions."
I would make the following comments on the passage which I have
quoted, (i) As regards the first sentence, I will say only that it is highly
obscure in the original and that my translation has been made after
* The italics throughout are Kant's.
98 C. D. Broad [Part
consulting an English colleague who is an expert in the German tongue.
When this sentence is taken in its context the interpretation which I have
put upon it seems to be the most plausible which the words and phrases
will allow.
(ii) The phrase in the second sentence about directing our intentions
" in accordance with the choice of others " is highly ambiguous. We do
this, e.g.y when we obey an order purely through fear, when we fall in with
another person's choice because we like him and desire to gratify his
wishes, and when we follow the advice of a person, such as a doctor or a
lawyer, whom we believe to be an expert. The second alternative might,
perhaps, with a little stretching, be said to come under the " weaker law
of benevolence " ; but none of them would seem to come under " the
rigid law of obligation ".
(iii) I think it may well be true that many persons are inclined to
interpret their sense of obligation to do something which goes against the
grain as involving a kind of conflict between their own will and a foreign
will. And I think they would feel that the only proper solution is, not a
recalcitrant external obedience to that foreign will, but a transformation of
their own will into conformity with it. But, in so far as a person puts this
interpretation on his feelings of moral obligation, I should have thought
that he regards the foreign will as that of some individual—in the last
resort God—who has a moral right to such inward conformity of our
desires to his. Now Kant cannot here mean by the " universal will
"
the will of God. It seems plain that he must regard it as a kind of collective
will, belonging to the system of all the inter-related finite spirits, con-
sidered as a kind of super-individual mind. Now I do not believe that
this is an intelligible hypothesis ;
and, even if it be so, I see no reason to
think that a person naturally interprets his experiences of moral obligation
in terms of a conflict and a conformity between his private volitions and
the volitions of a collective mind composed of all the spirits that there are.
(iv) What are we to make of the analogy with the Newtonian theory of
universal gravitation.? What is supposed to be analogous to the phenom-
enal facts which Newton explained, and what is supposed to be analogous
to the underlying causes by which he explained them?
{a) I think that the answer to the second part of the second question is
fairly obvious. Newton's explanation was in terms of a system of material
particles attracting each other in accordance with a certain law, and subject
in all their movements to the three laws of motion. Kant's explanation is
to be in terms of a system of spirits in some kind of direct rapport with
each other, so that changes in the inner state of each telepathically pro-
duces correlated changes in the inner states of all the rest in accordance
with " pneumatic " laws.
{b) What Newton explained by his theory of gravitation was a number
of striking terrestrial and celestial rhythms, e.g., the tides, the orbital
motions of the planets in accordance with Kepler's laws, and so on. He
further explained what might be called " second-order " rhythms, e.g.,
the precession of the equinoxes. He thus showed that a set of particles,
each of which moves under the joint influence of its own originally
impressed momentum and the gravitational attraction of all the rest, will
(if the originally impressed momenta fall within certain limits) settle down
178] Immannel Kant and Psychical Research 99
into a stable system, characterized by certain large-scale rhythmic regu-
larities and by minor variations on these themes which are themselves
regular and rhythmic.
Now compare the originally impressed momentum of a particle to the
" private will " of an individual spirit ; and compare the gravitational
field, due to the attraction of all the other particles, to the telepathic
influence of the inner states of all other spirits on the inner state of this
spirit. Then I take Kant's suggestion to be that the latter is felt by the
individual in the peculiar form of a feeling of " moral obligation ". It is,
one might perhaps say, almost as if each were subject to a kind of hypnotic
suggestion, exercised telepathically and unwittingly by all the others, and
received by the individual without conscious awareness of its source.
Kant suggests, if I understand him aright, that a set of spirits, each of which
acts under the joint influence of its private will and the telepathically
exercised hypnotic influence of all the rest, will settle down into a stable
system, characterised by some kind of moral and spiritual pattern analogous
to the rhythmic spatio-temporal pattern of the solar system.
(5) Eschatological Consequences. Kant thinks that such a theory as has
been sketched above would help to remove a difficulty which is very
commonly felt about the lack of correlation in this life between well-doing
and well-being and between ill-doing and ill-being.
There is no special connexion between the rightness or wrongness of
a volition and the consequences which it has in the material world. A
precisely similar series of bodily movements, and therefore precisely
similar results in the material world, might be initiated carelessly or
deliberately, and, if deliberately, either from a good motive or an evil one.
But these diff'erent causes, with the same effects in the material world,
might have very different effects in the spiritual world. For the moral
character of an act concerns the mner state which lies behind it in the agent;
and so it can have its full effect, in respect of the features which make it
morally good or evil, only by its immedate telepathic influence on the
inner states of other spirits. Their reaction, influencing telepathically the
original agent, might make a great difference to his well-being or ill-being
as a denizen of the spiritual world. In particular, the moral goodness or
badness of an embodied spirit's acts in this world might determine his
relationships of closer or less intimate rapport with other spirits, embodied
and disembodied. Evil acts may lay one open to the telepathic influence
of evil spirits, and put one out of telepathic rapport with good ones, and
vice versa.
When the soul is separated at death from the body which it has been
animating, its life in the spirit-world will be merely a continuance of those
relations with other spirits in which it has already been standing. The
goodness or badness of its acts done in the flesh will already have produced
their consequences in the spiritual world, of which it has always been a
member ; and those consequences will now be manifest to it in the nature
of the spiritual " environment " in which it will find itself. It will wake
up on the spiritual bed which it has made for itself, and on which it has
all the while been unwittingly lying during its dream-life in the world of
matter. This, Kant rightly thinks, is a great improvement on the popular
religious theory which regards future rewards and punishments as causally
lOO C. D. Broad [Part
contingent to virtue and vice, and as accruing only in consequence of
God's special volitions.
(6) Our Cognitions as Members of the two Worlds. Kant deals next with
the following prima facie objection. If there is this community of spirits,
and if each of us is at all times a member of it, is it not very odd that the
fact is not perfectly well known to us all? Kant's solution is as follows.
Each human soul has two quite different ideas of itself, (i) It knows itself
as a spirit by means of a kind of non-sensuous intuition, through which it is
aware of itself in relation to other spirits, (ii) It knows itself as an embodied
self through an image which originates from impressions arising from the
stimulation of the sensory organs, internal and external, of the body. By
this means only material things and its relations to them can be presented
to it. It is indeed one subject, which belongs both to the spiritual and the
material world. But it is not one and the same person in its two capacities.
Its cognitions in one capacity do not link up with its cognitions in the
other. What one cognizes as a spirit is not remembered by one as an
embodied self, and one's cognitions of one's own states as an embodied
self do not enter into one's cognitions of one's state as a spirit. However
clear and intuitive one's awareness of the spirit-world may be to one as a
member of it, this does not enable one as an embodied self to perceive it.
In this life, under normal conditions, one can have no more than an
abstract discursive conception of the spirit-world, reached by reasoning
such as Kant has offered ; one cannot have an intuitive awareness or an
empirically derived concept of it.
Kant compares the situation with that of the same man awake and
dreamlessly asleep. No-one, he thinks, would have any difficulty in
admitting that, when a man is asleep, he may have clear conscious cog-
nitions which he cannot recall when awake. He adduces the acts of
sleep-walkers, which are often more intelligent than those of the same
person when awake, in support of this opinion. Indeed, Kant is inclined
to think that mental activity in dreamless sleep is likely to be clearer and
more efficient than it can ever be in waking life, because disturbance from
the outer and inner bodily senses is at a minimum. But, for this very
reason, cognitions had by the soul in dreamless sleep cannot be recalled in
waking life. In order for such recall to be possible there would have to be
some sensory link between the cognition in dreamless sleep and some
sensation in present waking life. This would have to take the form of
some sensation in dreamless sleep, which was associated at the time with
the cognition and might be revived by a sufficiently similar waking
sensation. But in dreamless sleep sensation, both from within and
without the body, is in abeyance. Kant remarks that dreams, which he
defines for the present purpose as experiences had by a person when
sleeping and remembered by him when awake, are here irrelevant. The
dreamer may be said to be not fully asleep. He is wrapping up the
cognitions which he has as a spirit in the impressions of his outer or inner
bodily senses.
In spite of this we cannot wholly rule out the possibihty that our
experiences as spirits may occasionally insinuate themselves into our
normal waking consciousness. A spiritual cognition may do this through
evoking by association sensory ideas which are related to it, viz., images or
178] immamieJ Kant and Psychical Research *
i6t
even hallucinatory (7?/rt«-sense-perceptions which are symbolical of the
spiritually cognized fact or object. After all, both modes of cognition, the
spiritual and the sensory, belong to the same thinking substance. We may
compare this possibility with the admitted fact that the higher rational
concepts generally need to be clothed in sensory symbols if they are to be
intelligible to us. Kant refers, in this connexion, to the representation of
duration by a line, that of eternity by endless time, and the representation
of divine moral attributes in terms of human emotions, such as pity,
anger, etc.
But, even if this seeping of spiritual cognitions in symbolical form into
everyday consciousness be possible, it might be expected to be rare.
It would be likely to happen only in persons whose brains are specially
excitable, and thus more likely than those of most men to generate imagi-
native or quasi-sensory phantasies symbolical of spiritually cognized facts
or objects. Such persons are apt to be presented with numerous objects
which they take to be things of a spiritual nature actually present to their
senses. Really they are subject to an illusion of the imagination or an
hallucination of the senses, but its ultimate origin is a genuine influence
from the world of spirits upon them as members of that world.
Such symbolical but veridical phantasies would almost certainly be
blended with ideas derived from education, tradition, etc., and in some
cases with products of mere mental or bodily derangement. It must
always be very hard to disentangle the spiritual fact or object, symbol-
ically presented, from the wrapping of phantasy and hallucination. Again,
this state of " permeability ", in which the brain and nervous system are
activated in an abnormal way by the purely spiritual cognitions of the
soul, would involve something which might fairly be called nervous
instability. It would therefore be quite likely that a genuine " spirit-seer
"
would be subject to mere delusions and hallucinations, with no spiritual
significance, along with his veridical symbolic experiences. In this
connection Kant compares the gift of seership with Juno's gift to Tiresias.
In order to confer on him the spiritual insight which enabled him to
foresee the future she deprived him of his bodily eyesight
(7) Connexion with Swedenborg's Doctrines. Now Swedenborg claimed
to occupy a unique position both among men and among disembodied
spirits, in that he and he alone lived consciously and almost continuously
in both worlds. He was thus in a position to investigate the spirit-world
for himself, to cross-question its inhabitants and detect the errors and
illusions to which they are subject, and to describe its nature and structure
in ordinary human language on the basis of the information thus obtained.
Now, as Kant points out, the information which Swedenborg claimed to
have got " straight from the horse's mouth " (if it be permissible to use
such an expression in this context) agrees remarkably with the theory
which Kant had reached by the reasoning outlined above. Kant does not
give Swedenborg much credit for this ; he says that it is " as if a poet when
he raved happened to prophesy truly". It might strike an impartial
observer that the agreement may not be wholly disconnected with the fact
that Kant had carefully read and epitomized Swedenborg's doctrine at the
time when he was pursuing his metaphysical speculations on this topic.
(8) The psycho-physiological Conditions of waking sensory Hallucinations.
D
102 C. D. Broad [Part
Kant devotes Section III of Part I of the book to an eloborate discussion
of the psycho-physiological conditions of waking sensory hallucinations.
The essential points may be stated as follows.
The case to be considered is that of a man who is perceiving by ordinary
sight, touch, hearing, etc., his own body and the various external objects
which other waking men in his neighbourhood perceive, but who also and
sttnultaiieoiisly seems to himself to be perceiving other objects, imper-
ceptible to his neighbours, located at various places outside his body.
This case must be distinguished from ordinary dreaming. There the
subject does not perceive his own body by the external senses of sight and
touch, and he does not perceive any of the objects which waking men in
his neighbourhood perceive. It must also be distinguished from the case
of a waking man who experiences very vivid images or even quasi-
sensations but docs not locate their objects in external physical space or
regard them as existing independently of himself.
The " ghost-seer " is an instance of the case under discussion. But so
too is a person in delirium or madness. Suppose that the ghost-seer's
experience is delusive, in the sense that there is no physical object located
at the place where the ghost is ostensibly seen to be and emitting or
reflecting light to the seer's eyes. Then, even if there should be a spiritual
cause at the back of the ghost-seer's experience, and if his experience
should be veridical in the sense of symbolizing that spiritual cause,
essentially the same problem is raised by ostensible ghost-seeing and the
waking hallucinations of delirium or madness. It may be stated as
follows. How can a person project imaginative or ^«rti/-sensory contents,
which are not evoked by physical stimuli impinging on his sense-organs
from certain places in external physical space, into determinate external
positions, so that they appear to him to stand in determinate spatial
relations to his own body and to other objects of normal sense-perception?
Kant puts forward tentatively a physiological answer to this question in
terms of the old theory of " animal spirits ", i.e., the theory that the
interstices in the brain and the supposed pores in the nerves are filled with
a very subtle fluid whose motions are correlated with our sensations and
volitions. I suppose that his theory could probably be recast in terms of
present-day views of neural impulses as transmissions of electrical or
chemical states rather than translatory motions of a fluid.
So far as I can understand it, the suggestion may be put as follows.
The motions of the animal spirits in one's brain and nerves, which are
involved in an actual sensation of sight or hearing, follow lines within the
body which, if produced, converge to a point or a limited region outside
the body. The motions of the animal spirits which are involved in having
a visual or auditory image normally follow lines which converge to a point
or a limited region within the body. But in madness or delirium the normal
equilibrium of the brain and nervous system is upset in such a way that
the motions of the animal spirits which are correlated with an image follow
lines which converge to a point or a limited region outside the body. Thus
one seems to see objects, located in external space, corresponding to images
had under such conditions.
Now it often happens that only one kind of sensible experience, viz.,
the visual, is disturbed, whilst the others, and in particular the tactual |
4
178] Immamiel Kant and Psychical Research 103
and the muscular, are not. Thus one seems to see objects located in
external space, which yet offer no resistance and are intangible. Now this
is what is commonly told of ghosts. It also corresponds to the philo-
sophical notion of a spirit, viz., a substance which can occupy a region of
space without offering any resistance to the entry of matter into the place
which it occupies.
Kant remarks that it is likely that traditional stories of ghosts provide
some of the materials for the hallucinations of delirium or madness. If a
man were in the same psycho-physiological condition, but lacked this
background of tradition, his hallucinations might take a very different
form.
(9) The Conchision of the zvhole Matter. Kant was much too intelligent
a man to think that a psycho-physiological theory of the modus operandi of
waking sensory hallucination disproves the existence of spirits, or that it
disposes of the claim that some such experiences are initiated by the
telepathic action of a spirit on the soul of the experient and that they
express in a symbolic form the spiritual event which initiated them.
Though Kant does not explicitly say so, it is obvious that the test in each
case is, not the mere fact of ostensibly seeing an apparently independent
figure localized in physical space outside the body, but the question
whether the particular details of the experience itself and the particular
circumstances under which it happened strongly suggest that it was
initiated supernormally.
But, since the waking sensory hallucinations of delirium and madness
involve the same psycho-physiological mechanism, and since most persons
who claim to be mediums are obviously to some extent unbalanced
physically and mentally, it is tempting to treat them all alike as merely
pathological phenomena requiring no supernormal explanation. Kant
says that anyone who takes this line will enjoy three advantages. He will
be able to make up his mind easily and quickly without needing to bother
about detailed investigation of particular cases. He will be explaining the
facts on the basis of materials provided by common experience instead of
having recourse to the doubtful speculations of reason. And, above all,
he will avoid exposing himself to ridicule. For these reasons Kant will
in no way blame anyone who regards every professed ghost-seer, not as a
half-citizen of another world, but as a candidate for a mental hospital.
But he carefully refrains from saying that this is his own view. For him
the general plausibility of the theory of a world of spirits and of our double
citizenship in this world and in that is enough to keep him " serious and
undecided " in view of such stories.
Yet, very characteristically, he half takes away with one hand what he
has so grudgingly given with the other. Were it not for our hope of a
future life (which, he says, he cannot and would not eliminate) no-one
would attach any weight to the abstract possibilities which he has devel-
oped in the metaphysical part of the book. It would be much more
reasonable, apart from that hope, to ascribe all these ostensibly super-
normal phenomena to natural causes than to postulate agents and modes
of action so utterly unlike anything to which our senses bear witness.
The fact is that we are, and are doomed to remain, equally ignorant
concerning the three problems of (i) the animation of a human body by a
104 D. Broad [Part 178]
human soul at conception, (ii) the connexion of a soul with its body
during life, and (iii) its separation at death and its subsequent existence.
Were it not for our hopes and fears about the future, we should be as
content to refrain from speculation concerning the third problem as most
men have always been with regard to the other two.
Kant's final conclusion is completely agnostic. Beyond the bare
abstract possibilities outlined in the metaphysical sections we can make no
further progress either by rational speculation or by experiment and
observation. Genuine scientific hypotheses are concerned with the
details of agents and forces which are already known to be possible because
they are already shown by sense-experience to be actual. But, in specu-
lating about non-material thinking beings, standing to each other in non-
spatio-temporal relations and interacting telepathically in accordance with
pneumatic laws, we are postulating agents and modes of action which we
cannot know to be even possible. We have neither the guarantee of
rational insight (as we sometimes have in pure mathematics) nor that of
instantiation by sense-perception (as we have in natural science).
Admittedly, in the case of ghost-stories we have certain alleged experi-
ences of a 9«a5/-sensory nature. But, Kant says, the lack of agreement and
uniformity which is characteristic of such experiences makes them useless
as a foundation for any proposed laws concerning which reason might
pass judgment. They show only certain anomalies and irregularities in
the functioning of the senses, and, as such, it is reasonable to discount them.
Kant seems never to have contemplated the possibility of an experi-
mental investigation of ostensibly supernormal cognitive and active
powers. He does not even envisage the careful investigation and com-
parative study of the sporadic cases, such as was first attempted in
Phantasms of the Living, nor a synoptic survey of the whole field of normal,
abnormal, and ostensibly supernormal mental phenomena, such as Myers
made in his Human Personality. The fact that so great a man, speculating
seriously on this topic, did not consider these possibilities, and that they
have now been in so large a measure realized, should increase our gratitude
and admiration for the pioneers of psychical research in England, America,
and the continent of Europe. It is, perhaps, permissible to conclude with
the phantasy that news of these later developments has seeped through in a
symbolic form to the disembodied spirit of the sage of Konigsberg, and
that he has received it with interest and approval.
A FURTHER TEST FOR SURVIVAE
By T. E. Wood
The Proceedinos for July 1948 contain an article (hereinafter called " the
article ") entitled " A Test of Survival " by Dr R. H. Thouless.
Dr Thouless suggests that other members should prepare ciphered
passages to which they hope to supply the key after their deaths. This
suggestion I now adopt.
My ciphered passage is :
FVAMI NTKFX XWATB OIZVV X
The system, which I have used, is based on the Vigenere letter square,
as described on pages 258 to 260 of the article and in the manner set out
in the lower portion of page 259 and in the upper portion of page 260
of the article.
The first 21 words of the key passage are used as the bases of the 21
letters in the key series of letters, but (as Dr Thouless suggests) all second
and later repetitions of words already used in the key passage have been
omitted, when constructing the key series of letters.
The key passage to the decipherment of my message is in an accessible
book. After my death, I shall try to communicate the key passage. I
shall also try to communicate in what foreign language the key passage is.
The message, if and when deciphered, will not be in any one language.
I shall also try to communicate what languages are used in the message.
The use of foreign languages is to meet the point mentioned in the para-
graph commencing " Additional Note " on page 262 of the article as to
listing the commonest words in the English language and so to increase
the difficulty of decipherment.
My message is now open to anyone to decipher by any means what-
soever. Will anyone attempting to decipher it, please communicate the
result (even if negative) to the Society.'
My name is T. E. Wood. I have practised as a solicitor for some time
in Burma but most of my life in England. I was born on the 21st June
1887 in Yorkshire. For many years, I have been a Member of the Society.
My hobby is boat sailing. My executors will be asked to give to the Society
at my death the circumstances of it and its date. Fuller particulars as to
myself and a photograph of me and of my present home will be given to
the Society. The Society can give such particulars and lend these photo-
graphs, if it thinks fit, to anyone who will endeavour to ascertain the key
passage either by PSI means in my life time or by any means whatever
after my death, and who thinks that such particulars would be helpful.
With the view to stimulating attempts to decipher my message in my
lifetime, either by a professional cipher expert or by anyone else, I will
either (i) pay the sum of £20 to such successful expert or (2) pay both
{a) the sum of £10 to the Society for its library and also {b) the further
sum of 10 to the person, who is not a professional cipher expert, and who
105
io6 T. E. Wood [Part 178]
first successfully deciphers the ciphered passage in my lifetime. The
decision of the Society as to whether any sum is so payable and, if so, to
whom, is to be binding on all concerned. The Society will be furnished
with money by me to enable it to pay the fees of persons employed by the
Society after my death, with a view to my key passage then being
ascertained.
The value of this test will be increased, if readers of this article will try
by PSI methods in my lifetime to ascertain the key passage.
My honesty or otherwise is a most material factor. Anyone, who
intends to make full enquiries, can obtain my full name and address from
the Society.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
PART 179
A REPORT ON AN EXPERIMENT ON PSYCHO-KINESIS WITH
DICE, AND A DISCUSSION OF PSYCHOLOGICAL FACTORS
FAVOURING SUCCESS
By Robert H. Thouless
/. Introduction.
In 1943 Professor Rhine first reported experiments which had been
going on for several years in his laboratory in which it appeared that some
experimental subjects were able to influence the fall of the dice so that
they fell more frequently than could be attributed to chance alone with
that face uppermost which was the target intended by the subject.^ He
called this psycho-kinesis (or PK). It is sometimes said that these successes
have not been repeated in this country. This is not quite correct since I
reported in 1945 a limited but definite success in influencing the fall of a
spun coin.'^ Mr Whately Carington has also carried out experiments with
dice using his wife as subject which he considered were not wholly negative
(unpublished). More recently Dr E. A. G. Knowles, an English engin-
eering mathematician, was surprised to find that she obtained significant
evidence for PK in a series of experiments which were intended to show
that nothing but a chance result would come from such an experiment.^
It remains true that the volume of successful PK experimentation in
this country is still relatively small. During a visit to Professor Rhine's
laboratory in the autumn of 1948, I found that I was able to succeed in
PK experiments with dice. It seemed worth while, therefore, during the
winter of 1948/49, to try to repeat this success at home. My object was
threefold. First, to see whether I could increase the relatively scanty
record of PK successes in Great Britain. Secondly, to try to devise a
method of experimenting which would eliminate the possibility of success
being due to an unconscious skill in throwing or to precognition of the way
in which the dice would fall, and which also would meet some other
objections that have sometimes been made to some of the Duke experi-
ments. Thirdly, I hoped to find out something about the psychological
factors determining success and failure in these experiments in the hope
that I should make it easier for other investigators to repeat any success
I might have if they felt so inclined.
All the experiments which are the subject of this report were done on
myself as both subject and experimenter and were unwitnessed (although
other people were sometim.es present). I find it quite im.practicable to
H 107
io8 Robert H. Thouless [Part
provide witnesses for experiments which must be htted into odd times
when I happen to have a spare twenty minutes. This would render these
experiments unconvincing as evidence for the reaUty of PK if that reality
had not already been established by a number of witnessed experiments at
Duke University parapsychological laboratory. The primary purpose of
my experiments was not, however, to create conviction in other people
but to satisfy myself as to whether I could obtain positive PK results by
self-experimentation using the methods described below, and if so under
what conditions. The best road to conviction is neither my testimony nor
that of a multitude of witnesses, but the ability to achieve success in such
experiments one's self. I hope that the suggestions I make in the later
part of this report will be of some help in enabling those who are sceptical
of the PK effect to convince themselves by their own success in carrying
out such experiments.
Some of my experiments were done with dice thrown by hand from a
shaker ; these are referred to in this article as " hand-thrown ". I do not
regard these as crucial evidence for the operation of psycho-kinesis, since
the conditions of throwing do not exclude the possibility of success being
due to skill in throwing. On the other hand, I have no reason for suppos-
ing that success in hand-thrown experiments is due to this cause, and such
evidence as I have strongly suggests that the factor at work in these
experiments is the same as that operating in mechanically thrown dice.
The remainder of the experiments were done by a method of machine-
throwing which completely excludes the possibility of any sort of skill
causing the results. A method of randomising the targets by means of
Latin squares was also introduced partly in order to exclude the possi-
bility that success might be due to precognition of the dice falls, and
partly to exclude the possibility (suggested by Mr Parsons) that position
effects might be due to progressive physical changes in the dice. The dice
used were plastic inlaid dice kindly supplied by Professor Rhine. In all
cases four dice were used for each throw, partly for the accidental reason
that this happened to be the number I brought back from Duke University,
partly for the reason that with four dice there are about even chances of at
least one success by chance alone, so the experimental subject is saved
from the tendency to discouragement by a large number of complete
failures. These dice were marked with the letters A, B, C and D, and
their falls were recorded separately in that order. I always recorded all
dice falls, both success and failures, and as a further precaution against
the possibility of errors in recording, I repeated the count of the faces
uppermost after the recording.
For machine-throwing, the apparatus shown in Fig. i was used. I
wished to exclude all possible ways in which the fall of the dice could be
supposed to be influenced by the voluntary activity of the subject. Their
initial position was, therefore, prescribed. The dice were placed on the
machine with the i face outwards from the board while the 2 face was
upwards from the gate. The order was (from left to right) ABCD, and
the four dice were placed compactly with A in contact with the left hand
stop above the gate. They were released by pulling a string which moved
a latch from under the left-hand end of the gate so that the gate fell under
the influence of gravity. The speed and way of falling could not, there-
179] ^ Report on Psycho-kinesis with Dice 109
fore, be influenced in any respect by the way in which the subject operated
the release. When the gate fell, the dice slid forward down a hinged board
at an angle of about 45° and were given a rotation by striking a projecting
band of corrugated rubber and fell rolling on the floor at about i foot
vertical distance from the initial height of the dice.
/i
DICE
A B coy
« • • • ^
FALLING GATE •
LATCH OPERATED BY STRING
7
CORRUGATED RUBBER
Fig. I. —Apparatus for mechanical throwing.
It is obvious that this rigid prescription of the initial position and
manner of fall of the dice might produce a tendency for the frequency
of different faces to fall uppermost to be far from equal. This does not
affect the validity of the method since any such departure from equi-
probability would only reproduce the normal efli'ects of bias which do not
aff"ect mean chance expectation of success in a properly designed experi-
ment (e.g. one in which each face is target for an equal number of times).
The variance will be somewhat afl'ected by departure from equiprobability
but only in a direction which will lead to an error in the safe direction, i.e.
to an underestimation of the significance of any observed deviation. This
effect may, therefore, be ignored unless the departure from equal distribu-
tion of falls is extreme.
In fact, the departure from equality proved to be very small. Since the
initial position of the dice in the machine-thrown experiments was such
that the 3 and 4 faces were at right angles to the surface on to which they
fell, it is to be expected that these faces would fall uppermost less fre-
quently than the others. This proved to be the case. The distribution of
faces for the 5,184 machine thrown falls of Expts. IIa and IIb taken
together are shewn in Table i.
Table i
*
Faces uppermost
(I) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) Total
Observed - - - 918 892 819 821 882 852 5,184
Devn. from expn. - +54 +28 -45 -43 +18 -12
110 Robert H. Thoiiless [Part
What the table suggests at first sight is the presence of the expected
deficiency of 3s and 4s, superimposed on a general bias favouring low-
valued faces. The deviations in this table are, however, not large enough
for significance, the odds being only about 10 to i against all deviations
occurring by chance variation from equal probability (chi" = 9-3, « = 5,
P= -i).
If, however, we consider separately the question of whether there is a
real deficiency of 3s and 4s, we have the following table ;
Table 2
3 4 faces all others Total
Observed ----- 1640 3544 5184
Expected ----- lyaS 3456 5184
Deviation - - - - - -88 +88
This gives chi2 = 6-65, « = i, P = -oi. The odds are thus 100 to i
against this deficiency of 3s and 4s arising by chance. The deficiency
is, however, satisfactorily small, being only about 5%.
It is not possible to give a definite answer to the question as to whether
any part of the remaining inequality of the faces is due to bias. If we
consider only the 3,544 faces which were not 3s or 4s we should expect
886 falls on each of the remaining four faces. The deviations from this
expectation of the remaining four faces is shown in Table 3.
Table 3
(I) (2) (5) (6) Total
Observed - - - - 918 892 882 852 3544
Devn. from expn. - - +32 +6 -4 -34
Chi- for Table 3 is 2-52, which with ?z = 3 gives P = '^. The deviations
from expectation are, therefore, only such as would be expected by chance
alone. The fact that the values of the deviations fall in the order i, 2, 5, 6
certainly seems to suggest a bias efi^ect, but this suggestion has no real
strength since the odds against this or the opposite serial order arising by
chance are only 12 to i. If bias is present, its amount is so small that
analysis of a very much larger number of falls than all I have available
would be necessary for a demonstration of its significance. In any case,
the question is not of suflncient importance to justify so much labour. We
can be confident that if bias is present, it is to a small amount. If the
departure from equality shown in Table 3 were entirely due to bias, the
amount of this bias would only be about 4% for extreme values. The
absence of appreciable bias was confirmed by an examination of 864
hand-thrown falls in which there was no appreciable departure from equal
probability of faces and no indication of the serial effect seen in Table 3.
This does not mean, of course, that a method of assessment assuming
freedom from bias can safely be used. A method of assessment giving a
result which is independent of any bias of the dice must be used in all
cases.
The purpose of the standardisation of the initial position of the dice
on the machine was to eliminate the possibility that success might be due
to a process of acquiring skill or to some other paranormal process than
179] A Report on Psycho-kinesis with Dice iii
PK, e.g. to the subject's knowledge by a psi process that a certain initial
position of the dice or a certain method of releasing them would favour
the appearance of that face which is the target. For this purpose, it is
also necessary to deny him (and the experimenter) any liberty as to choice
of target faces, since otherwise he might be guided in choice of target face
by precognitive psi knowledge of which faces were going to fall uppermost
most frequently in a series of throws. The method I have adopted for
determining the sequence of targets is by use of a 6 x 6 Latin square, that
is, a square containing the numbers i to 6 arranged in six rows in such a
way that each number occurs once and once only in each row and in each
column. A series of such Latin squares is to be found in Fisher and Yates's
mathematical tables. One of their basic forms is selected by a random
method, and its rows and columns are then randomly permuted by means
of dice throws. The successive lines of the square were then used for the
sequence of target faces. One row of a Latin square was used for the
succession of targets on a single occasion, six or three throws of the four
dice being made in succession for each target face. After a Latin square
had been used, it was not repeated but the next experiments were done
with a new square obtained by a new permutation of the rows and columns.
For example, the target sequences for the first six occasions w-ere deter-
mined by the rows of the Latin square :
256341
542613
463152
135264
621435
- 314526
This method of target determination has several advantages. First, each
six sets of throws determined by a single row has all target faces an equal
number of times so the total number of successes expected by chance is
independent of the bias of the dice. Secondly, after six (or any multiple
of six) such sets of throws, each target has occurred an equal number of
times in every position. This is very desirable for the estimation of
position effects ; i.e. the tendency to score higher in some parts of a
series than in others. Unless each target has occurred equally often in
every position, it is possible that an apparent position effect may be due
to bias or to target preference : i.e. the tendency to score better on some
faces than on others. Unless this precaution is taken it does not seem
possible to make a separate assessment of position effect and target
preference.
It also seems to be the most satisfactory way of dealing with a possi-
bility that has been suggested by Mr Parsons that position effects might be
due to progressive physical changes in the dice during the course of
experimentation. It is certainly possible that such changes may take place
and may tend to produce progressive changes in the frequencies of falls
of different faces, and that under some conditions of experimenting such
changes might produce a spurious appearance of change in rate of success.
If, however, position changes in scoring rate were found consistently
through a Latin square, they could not be explained in this way, since
E2
112 Robert H. Thouless [Part
physical changes that would favour one direction of change in scoring rate
in one part of the square would be neutralised by opposite changes in
scoring in other parts of the square. It would indeed be necessary to
postulate some kind of physical change which made them consistently
change in a way determined by which face was target. This is clearly
absurd except on the hypothesis that PK is taking place.
The first object of the Latin square arrangement of targets is to secure
not only that the total experiment has an equal number of each target
face so that without undue labour in computation one may make an
assessment of the significance of the total deviation which will be inde-
pendent of target bias, but also that every sub-unit of the experiment used
in any comparison (such as that of different positions in the experiment)
may also have an equal number of each target face. Obviously this end
might be secured by other means than the Latin square. In a later
experiment to be reported below (the W^,^ experiment) a similar result was
obtained by arranging the target faces by the shuffling of a pack of six
cards numbered i to 6. This does not give equal numbers of targets in
each position, but it gives a random number of targets in each position
i.e. one that will differ from equality only by a chance amount. This
would give an equally valid but less economical way of assessing position
effects.
The second purpose of the use of the Latin square is to remove from
experimenter and subject all choice as to target face so as to make success
impossible of explanation by precognition of the dice falls. It is obvious
that if either experimenter or subject has free choice of target face, a
limited but considerable success might be obtained if the person choosing
the target face knew by precognition which were going to be the most
frequent falls in each sub-unit of the experiment for which the target face
was chosen. This is so obviously a defective form of PK experiment that
it is rarely employed now. There is, however, a wider possibility of the
influence of precognition. Since a PK experiment necessarily consists of a
system of targets chosen in some manner and a system of falls, it seems
possible that any success might be explained by the assumption that the
choice of targets was determined by a precognitive knowledge of the falls
in whatever manner the targets were chosen. Even if the target sequences
were chosen by a randomising machine, the machine must have been
started at a particular time by somebody and if he had precognitive
knowledge both of the targets the machine was going to select and of the
falls of the dice in the subsequent experiment it might be possible that he
started the machine at such a time or in such a way that it gave the targets
which would correspond with the dice falls in the experiment. Such an
explanation would not be a very plausible one, but if it is theoretically
possible then one has not got a method of demonstrating PK in a manner
which cannot be explained by precognition.
The experimental separation of PK and precognition may indeed be
impossible if these are assumed to work with ioo% accuracy, but it is
not difficult to design a PK experiment which cannot be explained by
precognition if the ability to precognise is assumed to be as fallible as
experiments on precognition show it to be. This can be done by using
a system of target selection such that the arrangement of targets depends
179] A Report on Psycho-kinesis with Dice 113
on a number of independent contingent events and could only be known
if all those events were correctly precognised. I think that this condition
is fulfilled by the Latin square method of selection. The basic square is
one of seventeen given in Fisher and Yates's tables. If this basic square
is selected by a random method, the square selected would have to be
correctly precognised in order that the experimenter should have any
idea of what are to be the target faces. If his dice chose the seventh square
and he was nearly but not quite correct in his precognition, he would
be expecting a wholly different square from the one actually employed, not
one that was nearly right. Nothing but an exactly right precognition
would produce any effect on his results. Even if he has performed the
remarkable precognitive feat of guessing the right basic square, he would
also have to precognise the dice falls that determine the permutations of the
columns and rows of the basic square. If he could precognise with 17%
accuracy (which would be a remarkably good precognition score), that
would only make right one target position out of the thirty-six of the
complete square, in addition to those that would be right by chance alone.
That would make very little difference to his final score, and for the second
and third squares, the effect of any such rate of correct precognition would
have no measurable effect since it would be necessary to precognise also
the new sets of permutations of rows and columns for these squares.
Plainly no level of precognitive success such as we find experimentally
could produce any spurious success in a PK experiment designed in this
way. Success in such a PK experiment can only be explained by pre-
cognition if we make the absurd assumption that when we are doing a PK
experiment, we can precognise with an incomparably greater accuracy than
when we are doing a precognition experiment.
I admit that there may be one somewhat serious objection to the Latin
Square method of PK experimenting. It is not unlikely that the frequent
and arbitrary changes in target are unfavourable to PK success so that it
may be a relatively unfruitful method of working. I have no evidence that
it is so, but it is not unlikely. I have myself obtained success in working
with this method but it is quite possible that I should have had much
better success by a method which did not involve such frequent changes of
target.
//. The First Series of Experiments.
In these and all other experiments here reported I acted both as subject
and experimenter. In some of the experiments I was alone, in others I
was working in competition with other people, but in no case was there
any formal witnessing of results. In my report I have included only my
own results w^hen I was working with other people.
During the Christmas vacation of 1948/49, I carried out a long series of
experiments with a variety of methods using both machine throwing and
hand throwing of the dice. It would be tedious to report these in detail
since much better evidence of the reality of the PK effect is provided by a
later series which I will report more fully. For some of the first of these
experiments I used a modification of the Latin square method which did
not involve complete equality of throws for different targets. This was
afterwards abandoned since, although perfectly valid, it was uneconomical
since it required a laborious method of assessment. The experiment
114 Robert H. Thouless [Part
started very encouragingly with 36 successes on the first day in 148 falls,
with a probability against so large a deviation occurring in a chance series
of ICQ to I. As is usual in such experimentation, however, decline set in
and after about four weeks, there were strong indications of a tendency to
score below mean chance expectation. As new forms of experiment were
started, they generally were successful at the beginning and declined to
mean chance expectation after a few days. The final total result for this
series was 16,232 falls (machine thrown and hand thrown together) with
2,809 hits on the target face. The excess of hits over mean chance expec-
tation is 103! which is 2- 18 times its standard error. The excess is just
significant (odds against occurrence in a chance series of about 33 to i)
but not sufficiently so for this result in itself to provide sufficient evidence
for the reality of the PK efli'ect.
On the other hand, there were abundant indications of a real PK effect
in these experiments apart from the total score. The smallness of the
over-all deviation above mean chance expectation seemed largely due to
the fact that the rate of success tended to fall off with time. Thus the last
batch of results by the machine throwing method was a set of 24 runs
{i.e. 576 single die falls) with a deviation of 19 hits below mean chance
expectation. This gives a critical ratio of 2-1 (P about -03) which suggests
(although it is by no means strong evidence for) a real tendency to score
below mean chance expectation at this stage of the experiment. In contrast
the first 24 runs of this experiment showed a deviation of 15 hits above
mean chance expectation. The difference between the scores at the
beginning and the end of the experiment was, therefore, 34 with a standard
error of 12-64. This gives a critical ratio of 2-7 and the odds against so
large a difference occurring in a chance series are rather better than a
100 to I. This is fairly good evidence for the reality of the decline effect,
particularly when we consider that a similar falling off in score was shown
in other parts of the experimental series.
The evidence for decline is also evidence for PK, that is against the
hypothesis that there is no inffuence on the fall of the dice of the intention
of the subject. Nevertheless it is evidence of a kind which must be
accepted with some caution since the primary purpose of the experiments
was to obtain a significant deviation from mean chance expectation. One
must be careful not to regard unexpected peculiarities of experimental data
as substitutes for the primary evidence which it was the purpose of the
experiment to obtain. On the other hand, chronological decline is a
characteristic of psi results which we already have grounds for expecting
from other investigations, so it is not unreasonable to regard its appear-
ance in these results as additional grounds for considering that PK was
operating here, giving further confidence in the indications of the over-all
positive deviation already obtained and encouragement to carry on further
investigation along the same lines.
///. The Secotid Series of Experiments.
I felt that I had accumulated experience in this first experiment and
knew better how to avoid the extreme effects of chronological decline.
The first series of experiments had been done during vacation when I
could devote all my spare time and most of my waking thoughts to the
experiment, and it seemed to me that as I had worked harder at it and
179] A Report on Psycho-kinesis with Dice 115
thought more about it, the positive results fell off. I decided, therefore, to
profit by the experience gained in this first series of experiments and to
carry out a second set of experiments done entirely by the machine-
throwing method in which I hoped to get a better positive deviation by
avoiding so far as possible the causes of chronological decline and other
factors productive of low scoring. Particularly I could avoid the intense
concentration on the experiment which I suspected was an important factor
in producing the decline observed in the first batch.
I resolved, therefore, to do this second experiment in small parts at a
time, allowing intervals between occasions, sometimes of a week or more,
sometimes of a few hours. On each occasion of the first of the second
series of experiments (referred to as experiment IIa), I made three throws
of four dice at each of the targets in one row of a Latin square. The pre-
determined length of the whole experiment was 36 experimental occasions.
All throws were made by a machine in the manner described earlier.
All dice falls were recorded in the die order ABCD. This recording of
all falls seems to me to be an important safeguard against the danger of
miscounting. After recording, I looked at the dice again before picking
them up to make sure that m.v record was correct. I am satisfied that no
mistakes were made in recording falls. Mistakes in counting the number
of successes can, of course, be easily avoided by subsequent rechecking of
the count from the record. This has always been done.
To make the experimental method more clear, I add the record for the
first two experimental sittings (Table 4).
30/1/49 (2)
1 1. 1
5 a.m. 3446
3224
3652
31/1/49 (5)
10. 45 a.m. 2125
3646
3254
Table 4
(5) (6) (3)
5524 2622 2454
5316 1633 4542
6365 2536 2J22
(4) (2) (6)
6321 3122 6563
6151 2362 1655
36^ 1222 2134
(4) (i) devn.
-/1 13 25x6
1665 6532
6361 622'3 +2
(I) (3)
26x6 4515
54J6 4425
1262 414J +8
Record of first two occasions of Expt. IIa
(target figures are those in brackets).
The final deviation from expectation in this experiment was an excess
of 42 hits over mean chance expectation with odds against chance occur-
rence of about 40 to I . This was an encouraging result although it is not
enough for strong conviction if the experiment stood alone.
Another point in which I had become interested when starting experi-
ment IIa was the problem of the specificity of the inhibition leading to
chronological decline. It appeared that one kind of experiment might be
inhibited while another was succeeding. I had immediately before this
time done a very large number of hand-thrown experiments for several
weeks (included in the Expt. I results reported above) and I had dropped
to chance scoring when working by this method. I was anxious to see,
therefore, whether this failure in hand-thrown experiments would con-
ii6 Robert H. Thouless [Part
tinue even though I might be succeeding in a machine-thrown series. So
during the first 24 experimental occasions of 1 1 A, I did an equal number of
hand-thrown experiments (Expt. I-"^) alternately before and after the
machine-thrown experiments. These were not intended to be included
in Expt. II whether they were successful or unsuccessful since Expt. II
was to be exclusively machine-thrown. Their results are, of course,
included in the over-all total results shown in Table 8.
The result of this comparison between the scoring rate at that time of
machine- and hand-thrown experiments is shown on Table 5.
Table 5
Total Standard Critical
Method falls Devil. error ratio P
Machine - 1728 + 34 15-5 2-2 •03
Hand - - 1728 - 9 15-5 •6 •55
Difference 43 21-9 1-96 05
The difference in favour of the machine-thrown rate of success is large
enough to suggest strongly that there was a real difference at this stage
of experimenting between the scoring rates from the two methods of
throwing. It cannot be concluded that machine-throwing necessarily pro-
duces better PK results than hand-throwing since at an earlier stage of my
work I was succeeding by hand-throwing when machine-throwing was pro-
ducing negative results. There is, however, some evidence that the inhibi-
tion of hand-thrown results is more lasting than that of the machine-
thrown, although I have no positive proof that this is the case.
On the 25th occasion of Experiment IIa (Experiment I''^ having been
completed), I started a new machine-thrown experiment (Expt. IIb)
which I continued to the same length as IIa, that is, to 108 runs or 2,592
single die falls. This experiment was done by a method which I had
developed during the course of the earlier series of experiments. It is, I
think, an interesting novelty and it may be found a useful variant from the
more usual methods of PK experimenting. I have called it the Wy,^
technique since it involves both (ESP) and (PK)- Essentially
it is a PK experiment in which the target face is not known by normal
means to the subject. Six cards numbered 1-6 are shuffled and laid face
downwards in a heap before the subject. The cards are not disturbed
until the check is made at the end of the attempt at all six targets. I he
four dice are then thrown with the intention that on the first throw the
top faces of the dice shall be that number which is on the first card of the
heap, on the second throw that of the second card, and so on. After six
throws have been made and recorded, the results are compared with the
numbers on the cards. Eight sets of six cards were used and, after the
completion of one run, the set of cards just used was put on one side
and a fresh set was shuffled for the next experiment. All throws in this
experiment (as in IIa) were machine-thrown.
Although to succeed in the task of hitting a target without knowing
what the target is may appear an impossibility, I have found this form of
experiment successful both with myself and with other subjects. I also
hear from Dr Betty Humphrey that she has had good success with this
179] A Report on Psycho-kinesis with Dice 117
method at Duke University. It is difficult to determine whether it is a
more fruitful method than that with a known target, both because there
are individual differences between experimental subjects as to the tests
in which they score best and also because scoring rate at a particular test
depends on the previous history of the subject with respect to that form
of test. For example, a subject who has developed a chronological decline
in his results for PK tests of the ordinary type may score better when
tried with this test simply because it is a novel task and not because it is
intrinsically a more fruitful method. It seems, however, to give as good
results as other ways of testing PK and I have some hope that it may prove
to be generally more favourable to good scoring. Its advantage, I think,
lies in the fact that the whole operation lies within the limits of psi-
determined processes so there is less temptation to the subject to use
conscious volition. A subject finds it hard to try to get the dice to fall the
right way up if he does not know which is the right way, and not trying is,
I believe, favourable to success. We seem to be asking the subject to
perform an impossible task, and the attitude he is inclined to adopt to an
impossible task is a good attitude for psi performance.
On each experimental occasion, I worked through three sets of six cards
with the exception of the 12 runs from 85 to 96 inclusive when I tried the
experiment of reducing the amount done to one run per occasion. To
make the method of experimenting more clear, I show in Table 6, the
detailed results of the first three occasions.
Table 6
Devn.
16/3/49 [i] 6553 (5) 2 [2] 2613 (4) 0 (3) 5J2I (3) I
10.15 a.m. 1326 (6) I IJ22 (3) I 2356 (i) 0
4454 (4) 3 6222 (2) 3 5513 (2) 0
j-465 (i) I 5663 (I) 0 1311 (6) 0
i"5 (3) 0 5221 (6) 0 3635 (4) 0
41 16 (2) 0 1232 (5) 0 2221 (5) 0
7 4 I
16/3/49 [4] 3^-^/ (i) 3 [5] 1665 (5) I [6] 5212 (3) I
5.20 p.m. 3263 (6) I 1563 (2) 0 2526 (2) 2
5231 (3) I 2162 (4) 0 6341 (6) I
6636 (5) 0 3363 (i) 0 6341 (5) 0
3221 (4) 0 5644 (6) I 3525 (4) 0
4664 (2) 0 5666 (3) 0 4242 (i) 0
5 2 4
17/3/49 [7] 5146 (2) 0 [8] 3453 (6) 0 [9] 2266 (6) 2
5625(3) I IJ36 (i) 2 5156 (5) 2
5561 (6) I 5525 (2) I 2616 (3) 0
-^434 ( 0 I 3452 (3) 2 1 122 (2) 2
5466(5) I ^515 (4) I 2216 (4) 0
5363 (4) 0 5562 (5) 2 5166 (I) I
4 8 7
ii8 Robert H. Thouless [Part
The four figures on the left of each block in this table are the uppermost
faces of the four dice, e.g. In line i of the first run, 6553 means that die
A fell 6, B was 5, C was 5, and D was 3. The figure 5 in round brackets
is the number of the top card in the pack which determined the first
target so the score for that fall was 2 as shewn by the last figure in the line.
The total result of Experiment IIb was an excess of +33 hits over mean
chance expectation. This excess, with a critical ratio of i-So is not quite
enough for separate significance. The whole of Experiment II [i.e. IIa
and IIb together) has a total deviation which, as will be shown in the next
section, is strongly significant. There is also a strongly marked position
effect in IIb, the first run of each occasion showing a tendency to high
deviations from mean chance expectation. Such secondary characteristics
of the data, which were not primarily aimed at in the design of the experi-
ment must, of course, be admitted with great caution as evidence for the
influence of PK, particularly since, although there was prior reason for
expecting position eff^ects, there was no reason for expecting it in this
particular form. On the other hand, the departure from expectation is
very considerable, so the position effect may perhaps safely be considered
as supporting evidence for the operation of PK in this experiment.
IV. Results.
Experiment II was intended to provide a block of results obtained by
the use of machine throwing to see whether positive PK results can be
obtained under conditions which preclude explanation by any kind of
skilled throwing. The total result of this experiment was strongly signi-
ficant, an excess of hits over mean chance being obtained such that the
odds against the excess occurring in a chance series were 200 to i. The
results of this experiment are shown in Table 7.
Table 7
Devti. from
Expt. Falls Hits m.c.e. S.E. C.R. P.
IlA 2,592 474 + 42 18-97 2-22 •025
IIb 2,592 465 + 33 18-97 1-80 -07
Total 5.184 939 + 75 26-83 2-8o •005
If it is preferred to consider all results together, the significance is
somewhat better than that of Experiment II separately. The complete
result of all the experiments that were done is shown in Table 8.
Table 8
Devn. from
Expt. Falls Hits m.c.e. S.E. C.R. P.
I 16,232 2,809 + 103! 47-48 2-18 •03
IX 1,728 279 -9 15-5 •58 •56
IIa 2,592 474 + 42 18-97 2-22 -025
IIb 2,592 465 + 33
+ 169I
18-97 I -So -07
Total 23.144 4,027 56-70 2-99 -003
The odds against the occurrence in a chance series of the total deviation
of 169I hits over mean chance expectation is about 350 to i, which is
179] ^ Report on Psycho-kinesis with Dice 119
sufficiently strong evidence that they are not in fact due to chance. In
view of the system of randomisation of targets, explanation by pre-
cognition seems also to be effectively excluded. Even if skilled throwing
could be the explanation of success in hand-thrown experiments, this
explanation is excluded in the strongly significant success of Experiment
II which was entirely machine-thrown. The results may, therefore, be
considered to show strong evidence for the reality of the influence on the
fall of the dice of the intention of the experimental subject, that is, for* the
operation of the PK effect.
V. Position effects and target preference.
The main purpose of the design of this experiment was to see whether
a deviation of score could be obtained greater than that reasonably attribut-
able to chance. One may also ask whether the results showed any of the
characteristics which other investigators have found in PK data, although
presence of such secondary characteristics could not be accepted as good
evidence for PK unless the experiment had been designed to look for
them or alternatively they attained a very high level of significance and
there was sound reason based on previous investigations for expecting
them.
In many experiments position effects have been reported, i.e. differences
in scoring rate at different points of an experimental occasion. In Experi-
ment IIa, a half run {i.e. twelve single die falls) was made on each occasion
for each of the six target faces. Since by the use of the Latin square it
was ensured that during every six occasions each target occupied each of
the six possible positions, it follows that any multiple of six occasions can
provide evidence as to whether there is a tendency to score differently on
the first, second, etc. half-run, and that any tendency which appears
cannot be attributed either to a physically determined change in the fall of
the dice favouring different targets at different stages of the experimental
occasion, or to a tendency of the subject to score better on some target
faces than others. At the end of this experiment, there had been 432 falls in
each of the six positions ; the number of hits in each position is shown in
Table 9 (72 being mean chance expectation for each position).
Table 9
Half-runs - - ist 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th Mean
Hits - - 88 64 88 80 73 81 79
Devn. from mean +9 -15 +9 +1 -6 +2
If there is any position effect in this table, it is clearly not a tendency as
simple as the usually reported tendency to score high at the beginning and
end of an experimental occasion. What is suggested is rather a maximum
scoring rate at the beginning and end and middle of the series. It must,
however, be determined whether there is any reason for supposing that
this is a real effect or whether it is only such a difference as might occur by
chance. The evidence on this question is provided by discovering
whether the variance of these quantities is significantly greater than that
to be expected on the hypothesis that they are chance deviations from the
observed mean of 79. The observed variance of the totals in each position
is 85-6. The expected value of the variance on the hypothesis that
I20 Robert H. Thonless [Part
differences between scores have arisen by chance is 64-6.^ The ratio of
1-32 of the observed to the expected value of the variance of these scores is
too small for significance. There is, therefore, no evidence for any
difference in scoring rate in different positions within each occasion for
this experiment.
There is, on the other hand, a very marked position effect in Experiment
IIb in which it was found that the first run of each occasion was the only
one- which was scoring significantly above mean chance expectation.
The results of the three runs for this experiment are shown in Table 10,
with the omission of twelve runs towards the end of the experiment which
were done with only one run per session.
Table id
Devn. from
Run Falls Hits m.c.e. S.E. C.R. P.
I St 768 166 + 38 10-32 3-68 -0003
2nd 768 127 - I 10-32
3rd 768 127 - I 10-32
Total 2304 420 + 36 17-88 2-01 •05
The deviation from expectation of the combined total of first runs of
this experiment is thus strongly significant. Taking into account the fact
that it is the selected best of three sets of observations, the odds against a
deviation of this size occurring by chance is about 1,000 to i. The signifi-
cance of this position effect may also be estimated by the method used for
Experiment IIa. The variance of these run totals about their mean of
140 is 507 which is 4-42 times the expected value of 114-6. This ratio
is clearly significant, with odds against chance occurrence of rather less
than 100 to I.
There is, therefore, strong evidence for the reality of the position
effect in Experiment lie although there appears to be none in Experiment
IIa. I am not able to account for the difference between these two
experiments. It must be remembered that each run in IIb included all
six target faces so that explanations alternative to that of a higher tendency
to score in the first run of each occasion are excluded as effectively in this
experiment as they are by the Latin square arrangement of targets in IIa.
Another oddity in scoring which has been sometimes reported is that
of preferential scoring on certain target faces. Generally what has been
suggested is a preference for scoring on the six face but in many cases the
design of the experiment has been such that a preferential scoring ten-
dency cannot be distinguished from the effect of bias.
The results of Experiment IIa were analysed in order to discover
whether they showed any evidence for a tendency to score more heavily
on some targets than on others. It is obvious that it is not sufficient to
find that there are more hits on some faces than on others since this might
be due simply to the fact that these faces fell uppermost most frequently.
The comparison that must be made is between the number of hits on each
target with the number expected on the hypothesis that the number of
' Calculated from the formula Npq, p and q being the observed proportions of
hits and misses in the experiment.
179] A Report on Psycho-kinesis with Dice 121
hits is proportional to the number of times that that face fell uppermost.
The results on different targets are shown in Table 11.
Table i i
Targets I ^ J T r 6 Total
Falls -
471 441 306 403 44Q
I r y 430 2592
Hits—observed 77 90 73 74 97 63 474
expected 86-5 8o-6 72-4 737 82-15 78-65 474
Misses—observed 396 351 323 329 352 367 2118
expected 386-5 360-4 323-6 329-3 366-85 351-35 2118
Devn. of hits from
expn. - -9-5 + 9-4 +-6 +-3 + 14-85 -15-65
This table suggests that scoring is above average on 2s and 5s, below
average on is and 6s and intermediate on 3s and 4s. If instead of asking
how scoring on different target faces compares with average scoring, we
consider how it compares with the number of hits on each target face to be
expected by chance (i.e. one sixth of the number of falls with that face
uppermost), w-e have the result shown in Table 12.
Table 12
Targets - - i 2 3 4 5 6 Total
Hits - - 77 90 73 74 97 63 474
Chance expn. - 78-8 73-5 66-o 67-2 74-8 71-7 432
Deviation from
chance expn. -i-8 +16-5 +7-0 +6-8 +22-2 -8-7
It appears from Table 12 that the main part of the scoring was done on
2s and 5s whereas that on is and 6s was insignificantly below mean chance
expectation and that on 3 s and 4s was insignificantly above.
Whether this was a real difference in scoring rate on different target
faces or a mere chance effect must be determined by finding the signifi-
cance of the deviation from expectation shown in Table 11. For this
table chi'^ is 9-78, which with 5 degrees of freedom gives P = -o8. This is
not small enough to be ground for regarding the deviation from expecta-
tion as significant. On the other hand, it is near enough to significance
to make one hesitant to draw the conclusion that there is no sign of target
preference. If we group together the hits on faces which are opposites, we
find a deviation from expectation which is highly significant. Thus by
combining the first and sixth columns of Table 11, the second and fifth,
and the third and fourth columns, we get a contingency table with two
degrees of freedom showing deviations from expectation of -25-15,
+ 24-15 and + -9 for these three pairs of targets respectively. If the data
are treated in this way, the deviation from the values expected on the
hypothesis of equal likelihood of scoring on each target would appear to
be clearly significant since chi2 = 9-i2 and P = -oi.
This indication of significance must, of course, be treated with some
caution since the low value of P results from the particular method adopted
of pairing the targets. If it were merely the result of arbitrarily pairing
targets with similar scoring tendencies, it would be necessary to discard
it altogether. The method of pairing is not, however, altogether arbi-
122 Robert H. Thouless [Part
trary. The target faces paired together are not only those occupying
opposite sides of the dice ;
they are also the faces that are similarly
coloured. In the dice I am using the 2 and 5 faces have red spots, the
3 and 4 faces have blue spots, while the i and 6 faces have black spots.
The scoring preference may be for a particular colour of face and not for
a particular number.
While the above indications cannot in themselves be regarded as
sufficient evidence for target preference, they may be accepted as giving
a lead to further enquiry. I made, therefore, a similar analysis of the hits
in Experiment IIb. The results are shown in Table 13.
Table 13
Targets - - - - - I & 6 2 & 5 3 &4 Total
Falls . - - - - 867 884 841 2592
Hits—observed - - - - 153 167 145 465
expected - - - - 155-5 158-6 150-9 465
Misses—observed - 714 717 696 2127
expected - 711-5 725-4 690-1 2127
Devn. of hits from expn. - -2-5 + 8-4 -5-9
Although the deviations from expectation in this table are in a some-
what similar pattern to that found in Experiment IIa, they are quite
insignificant (chi'- = -87, P>-5). They do not, therefore, add anything
to the somewhat inconclusive evidence as to target preferences given by
IIa. It would, of course, have been possible to make a more extensive
search for target preference in the experiments of series I. Counting
target falls and hits is, however, very time consuming and I felt that I had
spent enough time on a very minor problem. The situation at present
is, therefore, that there is some evidence of target preference with
heaviest scoring on 2S and 5s, but that the evidence is by no means
conclusive.
VI. Favourable and unfavourable conditions for PK experimentation.
One of the objects of this series of experiments was to see whether I
could find out anything about conditions which determined success or
failure in PK experimentation. I was looking out for any hints that my
experiments might give me, and the tentative conclusions I wish to report
are often based on very incomplete evidence. I shall indicate this by
using phrases which indicate incomplete conviction ; where the evidence
is reasonably good, that fact will be mentioned, but I wish to make it clear
that I am not confining myself to reporting conclusions that I regard as
established. Rather they are more or less tentative conclusions which
must be tested out by later research. It was my impression that PK
success was more afi^ected by unfavourable conditions than is ESP success,
that inhibition is more easily set up, and that success can only be expected
if a good deal more attention is paid to the problem of securing optimal
conditions than is necessary when experimenting with the more stable
ESP processes.
The problems of conditions may be discussed under the following
heads :
179] A Report on Psycho-kinesis with Dice 123
(i) Motivation.
(ii) Time of day.
(iii) Chronological decline.
(iv) Total length of experiment.
(v) Length of each experimental occasion.
(vi) Induction of favourable psychological conditions.
(i) Motivation. It has always been my impression that in both ESP
and PK experiments on myself, effort to achieve the required result
defeats its own end and tends to produce failure. Too strong motivation
tends to result in effort and failure results. That some degree of motiva-
tion must be present seems likely but it must remain at a low level. Strong
anxiety to succeed seems to militate against success. I have no convincing
proof of this, but it is an impression gained by many indications. Effortless
intention to succeed seems to me to be the ideal attitude. The way in
which I have sometimes expressed this is that the attitude must be that
expressed by the words :
" I want to succeed but I don't really care
whether I do or not."
A playful attitude towards the experiments is favourable to this relaxed
motivation. At the end of December 1948, I started doing PK experi-
ments in competition with my son and other members of my family. The
results of these competitions (for myself alone) are included in Experi-
ment I. The rate of scoring was considerably higher than I was at that time
getting when working alone. It might be supposed that making PK into a
competitive game would intensify motivation rather than reduce it. For a
child it might do so, but for an adult the desire to win in a game is a far
less strong motive than to get a positive result in a scientific experiment.
It is true that the latter motive was still present but it was largely sup-
pressed by the more trivial motive of winning the game. Under these
conditions I felt that effort was relaxed and I succeeded better. But a
crisis in the game inducing effort could again reduce the score. For
example, in my first game with my son in which we threw in turn a set of
three runs (72 falls) equally divided between the six targets, we both
obtained a score of 16 above mean chance expectation at the end of
9 turns {27 runs). This is a pretty good rate of scoring for a PK experi-
ment. Then we decided to settle the game by throwing until one was
two ahead. This immediately produced a state of increased volitional
tension and, for the next turn, I scored three below expectation while he
scored two below chance expectation (the first time we had both scored
negatively).
The same result appears to be produced by anxiety as to the total result.
On one occasion I made alone a series of 27 runs with an equal number on
each target face without paying any attention to my total score. Then I
added up my score and found it was 17 above mean chance expectation.
Then I felt that this was fine and I must keep it up ; in other words
volitional tension was increased. I immediately made another series of
27 runs and scored 7 below mean chance expectation.
These are mere indications of no great evidential value but they are
examples of the kind of observation which makes me inclined to think that
relaxation of volitional tension is necessary to success. They suggest that
it may be w^orth while for experimenters who wish to get success to try to
124 Robert H. Thouless [Part
make their attitude towards their experiments rather playful than over-
earnest. Competitive scoring may be a good way to achieve this end.
There is nothing original about this suggestion ; the value of a playful
attitude has been suggested both by Professor Rhine and Dr Humphrey.
It also suggests that it is well to avoid being anxious about the result.
The best way of experimenting may be to predetermine the total length of
an experiment and then not to work out total results until the experiment
is completed. It is hard to deny oneself the satisfaction of seeing how the
experiment is going on, and I do not observe this principle myself, although
I believe it is the best way. It is also to be considered that self-experi-
mentation is particularly unfavourable to a care-free attitude towards
experimental results, since a subject who is also the experimenter cannot
fail to be anxious about the total result. On the other hand, this may not
be important since it is possible that anxiety and volitional stress on the
part of the experimenter may interfere with successful results however
care-free the subject may be.
(ii) Time of day. On three days during the time when I was doing both
experiments IIa and IIb [i.e. the Latin square and the experiments),
I did the experiment both in the morning and the late afternoon of the
same day. The combined results for the two experiments shows a startling
superiority for the morning sessions. In every one of the six comparisons,
the morning session showed a higher score and the total result was that
shown in Table 14, showing a clearly significant superiority for the total
morning score.
Table 14
Falls Hits Devil. S.E. C.R. P.
Morning - 432 95 + 23 774 2-98 003
Afternoon - - 432 66 -6 774 •78 •44
Difference -
29 29 IO-95 2-65 •008
I was inclined at first to attribute this difference to having done the
experiment twice in the same day, but it is more likely that it is due to the
difTerence in the time of day, since it is found in a later experiment (not
yet completed) in which afternoon experiments were done on different
days from morning ones. In this experiment too there is a superiority of
the results of morning experiments over afternoon experiments although
those done in the evening are also better than afternoon ones.
The suggestion that experiments should preferably be done in the
morning may seem a not very practical piece of advice for those whose
occupation takes them away from home early in the day. For most
people, however, it would be possible to devote half an hour to experi-
menting on Sunday mornings and it must be remembered that a short
series of experiments under optimal conditions may give a better result
than a long series under less favourable conditions with less total expendi-
ture of time.
It will be seen, for example, from Table 15, in which I compare the
total results of my Experiments IIa and IIb with those obtained when the
experiment was done earlier than 12 noon, that I obtained a more signifi-
cant total deviation from these morning experiments than I did from the
complete series. If, therefore, I had confined myself to morning experi-
179] A Report on Psycho-kinesis with Dice 125
meriting, it looks as if I should have got a more satisfactory result with the
expenditure of about two thirds of the experimental time.
Table 15
Falls Hits Devn. S.E. C.R. P.
Expt. II (total) - 5184 939 +75 26-83 2-8o -005
do. (morning only) 3256 633 +69 22-20 3-11 -002
On the other hand, if morning is found to be too difficult a time for
experimenting, evidence from later experiments than those reported here
seems to indicate that evening is also a good time. The period of the day
that seems most definitely unsatisfactory for positive results is the afternoon,
(iii) Chronological decline. In the course of a PK experiment (as in an
ESP experiment) a process of inhibition sets in which reduces scoring rate
10 20 30 40 50 60
OCCAS/ONS
Fig. 2. —Cumulative totals of Experiments IIa, IIb and Ix at end of each experi-
mental occasion.
A. Point of beginning of practice of reciting poetry during the experiments.
B—C.—Between these points experiments were carried out alternately in the
morning and the late afternoon with resulting alternate high and low scoring in
both experiments.
D—E.—Between these points only one run (24 falls) was done on each occasion.
In order to keep this part of the diagram uniform with the rest each entry refers to
the combined total of three runs although these were done on separate occasions.
126 Robert H. Thouless [Part
and which apparently may go on to a point at which the subject is scoring
significantly below chance expectation. An experiment may, of course, be
designed in which this process of decline is itself the object of study. To
an investigator wishing to obtain a positive deviation, however, decline is
merely a nusiance and much of the detail of experimental design (spacing
of experiments, length of experimental occasions, etc.) is directed by an
attempt to minimise this decline.
On each occasion, the total score obtained up to and including that
occasion is plotted. The height of the graph shows, therefore, the cumu-
lative total for that experiment, while the difference between two successive
plots shows the score (deviation from chance expectation) on that occasion.
I'' was an experiment with hand-thrown dice at targets determined by a
Latin square. I had been doing a good deal of this experiment and it was
already thoroughly inhibited ;
nothing but chance results were obtained.
Experiment IIa, started at the same time, was in a form I had not been
recently using. Target determination was the same as in but the dice
were machine thrown. Positive scoring started at once but chronological
decline appears to set in on about the fifth occasion and the scoring
continued predominantly negative until a novel feature (the recitation of
poetry) was introduced at the point marked A. Thereafter, scoring was
heavily positive until the thirty-first occasion when there are again indica-
tions of the onset of chronological decline, although the experiment came
to a predetermined end (at the thirty-sixth occasion) too soon after this for
any certainty that this decline was final. IIb was also a novel form of
experiment started when I'^ came to an end. The experiment had
been done previously with hand-thrown dice but not (as here) with
machine-thrown dice. Again it started off with positive scoring which was
maintained until the twenty-third occasion of this experiment. After
this point, nothing was added to the score although there is some indication
of an end spurt. This, however, may be merely a temporary consequence
of having made an unfavourable modification of the experiment between
the points D and E.
These observations suggest that at least some part of the decline effect
may not be general, affecting all types of PK performance, but specific to
the particular task whose repetition has produced the inhibition. If this
is the case, an improved score may be expected if the subject is switched
to another task. 1 found other indications of this specificity of the decline
effect. For example, on 3/1/49 during the course of Experiment I, I did
six runs of a help-hinder experiment with a score of three below mean
chance expectation. This was a familiar experiment. On the same day I
started an entirely new experiment, the form of experiment, and scored
a positive deviation of + 8 for fifteen runs. On the following day, I con-
tinued at about this rate of scoring for the but was still below mean
chance expectation for the help-hinder experiment. There seems here to
be a strong indication that an inhibition of success resulting from continued
application to one kind of experiment may not inhibit scoring in another
form of experiment.
The difference between two forms of experiment need not be large in
order to show this difference between degree of inhibition. In a series of
Wy experiments reported in the Journal of Parapsychology,^ I found that I
179] A Report on Psycho-kinesis with Dice 127
got consistently negative scoring in a DT experiment which I had used
many times before, chance scoring in a precognition experiment which I
had done less frequently before, and consistently positive scoring in a
slightly different form of precognition experiment which I had never done
before.
This shows the danger of concluding that one experimental method is
intrinsically more fruitful than another from the fact that it gives a better
score when one starts using it. This may only mean that it is less inhibited
because more novel. The practical suggestion emerging from this obser-
vation is that it may be a help towards overcoming the effect of decline to
have a variety of tests rather than to use one only. There are a good many
possibilities : the subject may throw for a series of pre-determined targets
working alone, he may do so in competition with someone else, he may
do my experiment, or he may do one of the variety of experiments
described in Dr Humphrey's useful handbook.^ Alternation of a variety
of the available techniques is likely to give a higher score than the attempt
to repeat a large number of times a single form of experiment.
(iv) Total length of experiment. The fact of the onset of chronological
decline sets a limit to the total length of experiment which it is profitable
to carry out with any one subject. It is impossible to make any definite
rules on this matter since it is clear that different subjects differ very much
in the degree to which they are affected by chronological decline. For
example, Dr Soal's first subject Mr Shackleton seems to have carried on
a single experiment to a very great length without serious falling off of
score.** If my own results may be taken as a general guide, it looks as
if about 30 experimental occasions for any one experiment were enough.
Both my IIa and IIb experiments went on for 36 occasions and reference
to Fig. 2 showing cumulative totals for these experiments suggests that
both went on rather too long for maximum significance. Even this length
may have only been possible because each session was a short one (3 runs
of 24 falls). It is obvious that further research is necessary before one can
make a general rule as to the optimal length of experiment. Provisionally
one may consider about 60-90 runs as a length unlikely to produce serious
chronological decline. The main point for experimenters to bear in mind
is that there is an optimal length beyond which one should not go in
testing any one subject with one test and that it is more economical to
make a series less than this optimal length than to have it too long.
(v) Length of each experimental occasion. In the effort to make as
much use as possible of each occasion on which the subject comes, the
experimenter is tempted to give him as many tests as possible on each
occasion. My experiments suggest that this is not an economical pro-
cedure. In the Series I, I worked for an hour or more on each occasion and
succeeded in inducing a considerable decline after a few occasions on
each experiment. It is true that these few occasions included a large
number of falls, but I hoped to be able to work more economically by
cutting down the amount of experimentation on each occasion. In
Experiment II, I had only three runs of each experiment on any one
occasion, although for the early part of the series two experiments of this
length were performed on each occasion. When IIa was finished and I
was doing IIb alone, I was doing only three runs on each occasion.
128 Robert H. Thouless [Part
I then noticed a fact which made me wonder whether even this was not too
long. When I had completed the twenty-eighth occasion of IIb I discovered
that all my scoring up to date had been on the first run of each occasion.
The totals for the first, second and third runs of each occasion showed
deviations from mean chance expectation of +31, - 5 and - i respectively.
While there was no positive deviation on the second and third runs, the
score on the first run was highly significant. Taking into account the fact
that this was not a single observation but the selected best of three, the
odds against so large a deviation occurring by chance are about 250 to i.
For this run alone the mean scoring rate is the very satisfactory amount of
rather better than + 1 per run. It seemed, therefore, that it would be
more economical to cut down the length of each occasion to a single run.
This was done on the next 12 occasions with the disappointing result
that these 12 occasions gave a total score of 45 hits, three less than mean
chance expectation. Reducing the length of occasion from three runs to
one did not, therefore, result in the expected improvement in score. I do
not understand why this was ; it appears as if the superiority of the first
run depends on the intention to carry out two more runs afterwards. In a
sense, it may be considered that the logic underlying my expectation was
faulty. I considered that in replacing three runs by one, I was doing the
first run and leaving out the second two ; it could be argued that I might
as well have considered that I was doing the last one and leaving out the
first two. The failure to get a satisfactory score on one run was not due to
a general inhibition due to chronological decline since the remaining four
occasions of this experiment showed a deviation of +7 on the first run,
of + 4 on the second run, and of o on the third run. Although the numbers
are too small for statistical significance, the indication is that positive
scoring was resumed and (less strongly) that the old pattern of scoring
predominantly on the first run was resumed.
I feel no very strong conviction of the superiority of short experimental
sessions on each occasion. Clearly chronological decline does set in even
with an experimental session as short as the one I used in Experiment II
and I have no clear indication that it does not set in as soon, when measured
in terms of total experimenting, when the sessions are short as when they
are long. I am still inclined to favour the short session and my present
practice is to have not more than six runs of all experiments together for
each experimental session. Further research is, however, necessary to
establish whether this is really an economical procedure.
(vi) Induction of favourable psychological conditions. All Psi pheno-
mena depend to a very large extent on the psychological condition of the
subject ; I am inclined to think that the performance of PK tasks is more
easily upset by unfavourable psychological conditions than that of ESP
tasks. In self-experimenting, it has seemed to me that I have not scored
well either on ESP or PK if I am tired, cross, ill or anxious. In experi-
menting with other subjects I have noticed that positive results tend to
disappear if there is any hint of a hostile or suspicious attitude on the part
of those present or if tension is increased by over-emphasis on experi-
mental precautions. These, of course, must be adequate but the rule
should be : adequate precautions without fuss. If witnesses are present,
their attitude should be that of co-operative friendliness.
179] A Report on Psycho-kinesis with Dice 129
It is easy to avoid experimenting when the subject is ill, cross or tired.
Anxiety is more troublesome since there is always present a situation to
become anxious about—the success of the experiments. Possible ways of
dealing with this source of anxiety have been discussed earlier.
As well as trying to avoid these obvious sources of unfavourable con-
ditions for positive scoring, we may consider whether there is any technique
that can be used for inducing a psychological condition favourable to
positive scoring. It would be ideal if we could find a method which led to
consistent positive scoring without chronological decline. I can report
only very limited success in the search for such a method. My only
success in inducing a state of mind which seemed temporarily at least, to
have a real effect of scoring rate, was when during experiment IIa I hit on
the device of repeating poetry to myself while the experiment went on.
The point at which this device was introduced is shown by the line A on
Fig. 2. The immediate effects were striking. The deviations for the first
six occasions after this method was adopted were o, +5, +3, +2, +1, +8
with the total deviation of + 19 for 18 runs (i.e., 432 single die falls). The
previous six occasions had given scores: -i, -4, -1,0, +2, -5,
totalling - 9. The difference of + 28 in favour of the deviations after the
change of method is significant (C.i?. = 2-56, P = -oi).
This looked good and I thought I had discovered a method of over-
coming the problem of low scoring. This hope was not fulfilled. That
the method is not adequate to overcome the inhibition due to chronological
decline is shown by the fact that it did not affect at all my rate of scoring
in the thoroughly inhibited hand-thrown series going on at the same time.
Moreover, even the series IIa showed distinct evidence of chronological
decline in its later stages although the recitation of poetry went on all the
time. I continued this method to the end of Experiment IIb although I was
doubtful then whether it was having any useful effect. In experiments car-
ried on later than those reported here I have used it only occasionally with
no clear indication that it now makes any difTerence one way or the other.
It may well be that the initial success of the method was due not to any
specific effect of the poetry but rather to the fact that it was a novelty ;
it may have been another example of an inhibition to a particular form of a
test having been overcome by a change in the test. It may, on the other
hand, have been due to the fact that the change in psychological attitude
induced by the poetry at the beginning was no longer induced later on.
I am inclined to think that both factors may have been operative. Cer-
tainly the experience of exaltation brought about by the poetry at the
beginning was not maintained. It soon came to be part of the rather
boring routine of the test, no more exciting then would have been the
recitation of the alphabet.
It does, however, suggest a principle of experimenting worth trying out
in order to help positive scoring. It may be worth while to try all kinds of
emotionally stimulating stimuli such as music, discussion, problem
solving, etc. before or during the test, varying these so that none of them
become a merely accustomed routine. I have no doubt that different
conditions may be effective for different subjects. The tense atmosphere
of the hushed experimental room is likely, on the whole, to prove un-
favourable for most of them.
130 Robert H. Thouless [Part 179]
VII. Conclusion.
It is obvious that, even at the end of my experiments, I was very far
from having solved the problem of how to ensure success. That is clear
from the low rate of scoring I had reached at the end. One would like
to be able to describe conditions which would ensure that any
experimenter could get successful results by adhering to them. That is
not possible even for ESP experimentation, and it is my impression that
successful PK experimenting is more difficult, since the effect seems more
quickly inhibited by continued experimentation and more easily affected
adversely by unfavourable psychological conditions. It is not, therefore,
a matter for surprise if other experimenters do not always succeed in
getting successful results.
There are, however, clear indications of certain things that they should
avoid. One must avoid increasing the emotional tension of the subject by
showing gratification at his success and disappointment at his failure. One
must not introduce an atmosphere of tension by maintaining silence
during sessions. If witnesses are present they must not be allowed to
create tension by maintaining a suspicious attitude or by such behaviour
as whispering. The subject should not be required to do large numbers
of experiments at a time or to do a sufficient total number of sessions to
make him exasperated by the experiment. A single experiment should
not be repeated without variation throughout the experimental series.
The satisfactoriness of an experimental design should be judged, at least
in part, by the extent to which it avoids all of these unfavourable
conditions.
REFERENCES.
' " The Psychokinetic Effect. I. The First Experiment," Louisa E. Rfiine and
J. B. Y^hinc, Jour, of Para., VII, 1943, pp. 20-43.
' " Some Experiments on PK Effects in Coin Spinning," R. H. Thouless,
Proc. S.P.R., XLVII, 1945, pp. 277-80.
^ "Report of an Experiment Concerning the Influence of Mind over Matter,"
E. A. G. K.no-wles, jfoiir. of Para., XIII, pp. 186-96.
* " A comparative study of performance in three psi tasks," R. H. Thouless,
your, of Para., XIII, 1949, pp. 263-73.
^ Handbook of Tests in Parapsychology, Betty M. Humphrey, Parapsychology
Laboratory, Duke University, 1948.
^ " Experiments in precognitive telepathy," S. G. Seal and K. M. Goldney,
Proc. S.P.R., XLVII, 1943, pp. 21-150.
Proceedings of the
Society for Psychical Research
Part i8o
SOME ASPECTS OF EXTRASENSORY PERCEPTION
By Dr S. G. Soal
{Presidential Address delivered at a General Meeting of the Society on
3 November 1950)
I WOULD first express my sincere appreciation of the honour you have
conferred upon me in making me your President. Many of my pre-
decessors in this office have been men eminent in Science, Literature or
Philosophy. I can only claim that my training has been that of a pure
mathematician, and at present mathematics plays the useful though sub-
sidiary role of informing us how likely it is that the coincidences we observe
can be accounted for by the operation of chance. But it is conceivable
that mathematics may one day become the language of mental relations
as it is already the language of the physical sciences. Perhaps the small
progress which psychology has made during the past hundred years in
comparison with the gigantic strides taken by physics and chemistry may
be due in no small measure to the fact that we have failed so far to
discover a calculus which is appropriate for dealing with the phenomena
of mental life. However that may be there is truth in Dr Rhine's paradox
that today we know more about the atom than about the mind which
conceived the atom. Psychology remains a rudimentary science and we
are woefully ignorant of the working of those higher level functions which
express themselves in creative activity of various kinds. And it would
appear that the phenomena of psychical research are more intimately
linked with the unconscious or subconscious strivings of the mind than
with the conscious aspects studied by classical psychology.
I need hardly remind you that the term psychical research itself has very
wide connotations, and has been held by many investigators to mean the
examination of any unusual happening which does not appear to conform
to a normal scientific explanation. When I was a member of that now-
defunct body the University of London Council for Psychical Investigation
we were asked to examine the most diverse and fantastic claims. One man
asserted that he was able to generate an abnormal amount of heat in his
hands, but a physicist with a thermopile quickly disposed of this claim.
Another man, a Kashmiri, alleged that when his eye-sockets were stopped
with dough and bandaged he was yet able to see to read through the nasal
mucosa, that is, the inside membrane of his nose. Though this man put
up a good show it soon became clear that he was seeing down the outside
of his nose instead of the inside.
131
132 Di- S. G. Soal [Part
Then there was the alleged talking mongoose Jeff who was the famihar
of a sheep farmer and his wife and daughter who dwelt in a wooden frame
house on a windswept upland of the Isle of Man. Unfortunately the
investigators arrived at the lonely steading only to learn that Jeff had most
inconsiderately left for a month's holiday.
Though such investigations may have some possible psychological
value as providing material for studies in motivation, they involve a dis-
persal of time and energy and I cannot help feeling that psychical re-
searchers would do well to restrict themselves to the study of those types
of phenomena for which there is a respectable amount of good evidence.
I mean by these the problem of extrasensory perception in its various
aspects and the study of psycho-kinesis initiated by the workers at Duke
University. This programme would also naturally include the observa-
tional study of spontaneous cases and the phenomena produced by those
remarkable persons known as mediums. Hypnotism and the study of
multiple personality come also within the proper province of psychical
research.
On the other hand we must never forget that psychical research is a
field of infinite possibilities. We must be prepared to gamble and take
long shots. Who knows, for instance if ESP is confined to human beings
and animals? An experiment worth trying would be to pit against each
other two electronic selectors generating choices of, say, four symbols
and observe if there were more coincidences than chance would predict.
It is conceivable that the machines might " telepath " to each other. Such
an experiment might be unsuccessful but it would not be silly.
But do not let us fritter away our time on the feats of stage telepathists
and other illusionists. These persons are able to simulate extrasensory
perception only because they work under their own carefully planned
conditions. They are unmasked very quickly when asked to produce
their effects under the normal experimental conditions of the parapsycho-
logical laboratory. The genuine telepathic subject is readily distinguished
from the charlatan. The former submits without demur to any reasonable
conditions which the experimenter may think fit to impose. The charla-
tan always begins by telling the experimenter in minute detail just how the
test is to be conducted. The slightest deviation from his prescribed
routine is liable to upset all his calculations. That is why stage tele-
pathists generally refuse to permit examination of their claims by psy-
chical research workers.
There are some who maintain that the best way to convince scientific men
of the reality of telepathy is to go on demonstrating under increasingly
rigid controls and to more and more witnesses the basic fact of extra-
sensory perception. This, I think, is a mistaken policy. One might,
it is true, succeed by such methods in convincing a few individual scientists
but the majority who had not seen the demonstrations would remain
unaffected by them. And of those who witnessed them a certain pro-
portion would prefer to believe it had been hoodwinked by some trickery
than be compelled to abandon the outlook of a lifetime.
A wiser method would be to encourage young psychologists and others,
by means of grants, to experiment for themselves, more especially with a
i8o] Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception 133
view to discovering the mental and bodily factors which facilitate the
emergence of telepathic or clairvoyant impressions, as well as the psycho-
logical types that are most successful as percipients, as agents and as
experimenters. It is only by asking useful questions and devising careful
experiments which provide the answers that we may hope at our present
stage to make any real progress. To go on repeating the same experiment
would be like trying to study electricity by continually stroking a piece of
ebonite with flannel. Nor is it reasonable to expect a man who has con-
vinced himself over and over again by carefully controlled experiments of
the reality of telepathy to spend the bulk of his time and energy in trying
to convince sceptics who have probably not given an hour's thought to the
question in the whole of their lives.
When we have reached the stage (and I think it is probably only a
question of time) at which we are able to say to the ordinary scientific
worker: " Apply such and such psychological tests to a group of persons
and by means of the results select your experimenters, agents, and subjects
and you will be reasonably certain with a little perseverance of getting
moderately significant results," we shall have achieved something of more
importance than if we had convinced by demonstrations a dozen members
of the Royal Society.
The study of the correlation between personality traits and ESP
performance so ably begun by the late Dr Stuart and continued by Dr
Humphrey and Dr Schmeidler will require for its successful progress the
co-operation of highly-trained psychologists. On this score I do not
anticipate any serious difficulties so far as this country is concerned. We
have now in London at least two University colleges with psychology
departments whose heads are sympathetic to our studies. In an age in
which almost everyone is faced with the necessity of earning his living it
would be unreasonable to expect heads of psychology departments to
encourage young post-graduate students to make psychical research a main
interest. But with financial assistance there seems no reason why a
limited amount of work in this field should not be carried out by students in
psychology who possess the right temperament.
To sum up, it is my belief that a large number of well-controlled experi-
ments by independent investigators dealing with specific problems con-
nected with extrasensory perception will have more influence upon
orthodox scientific opinion than eff^orts, however rigorous, which are con-
fined to a mere demonstration of the existence of the faculty. Indeed can
it be said that one has succeeded in establishing completely any natural
phenomenon until one knows something of the conditions in which it
takes place ? The best way then to convince ordinary men of science of the
reality of telepathy is for as many workers as possible to do well-planned
experiments with the object of finding out something about the way in
which it works.
I would not, however, wish to give the impression that competent wit-
nesses are unnecessary at experiments in extrasensory perception. They
are indeed essential when the experimenters are young and inexperienced,
and even in the case of investigators who are well acquainted with the
various sources of error it is advisable for intelligent persons to be present
in order to assist in the checking of records. Further, I think that when-
134 Dr S. G. Soal [Part
ever possible two experimenters should work together on an investigation.
But there is clearly no sense in creating an atmosphere in which every per-
son is suspected of cheating or of being in collusion with someone else.
I think it is fairly certain now that the getting of results in extrasensory
perception depends not only on the percipient and the agent but also on the
general harmonious relations which exist among all the persons who take
part in the experiment. As Professor Gardner Murphy would put it, the
emergence of successful results is a function not only of individual
mentalities but also of the intra-personal psychical field. When we have
discovered a sensitive we must find a suitable group of persons to work
with him if his faculty is to have unobstructed play. I would not, however,
go so far as Professor Murphy who suggests (unless I have misunderstood
him) that a considerable percentage of the population could become Basil
Shackletons if only they were brought into contact with the right agents
and experimenters, for I think this is too good to be true. I certainly
believe that the powers of good subjects can be inhibited if the experi-
menters are uncongenial to them.
The reluctance of many men of science to accept the phenomena of
extrasensory perception is largely the result of a misconception. It is
assumed tacitly that there can be nothing in the Universe which does not
obey the laws of physics as we know them today. I cannot see the least
justification for this naive assumption. As Professor Broad has pointed
out more than once, had it not been for the accident that certain substances
such as lodestone and amber are fairly common on the earth's surface, we
might have known nothing at all about the existence of electromagnetic
phenomena and it would have been supposed that the laws of Newtonian
mechanics held throughout the Universe. Moreover, as Professor Hardy
has asserted, it is impossible to account for biological phenomena ade-
quately in terms of physics and chemistry. Still less is it possible to
explain the complex diversity of consciousness and its creative activities in
terms of present-day physics.
When a physicist asserts categorically that there can be no such thing as
extrasensory perception, he is simply making an illegitimate excursion
outside his own province. The question of the existence of paranormal
perception is to be settled on the adequacy of the evidence and on
that alone. Many eminent philosophers, biologists and psychologists
have expressed the judgement that the experimental evidence for, say,
telepathy is now adequate both as regards quality and quantity.
Nowadays there is very little criticism of the experimental evidence for
telepathy that need be taken seriously. More often than not the would-
be critic betrays the fact that he has not even taken the trouble to make
himself conversant with the published reports which he is presuming to
criticise. The general method adopted is to list a few of the well-known
sources of error and then insinuate that all apparently successful cases of
ESP can be explained away as being due to the presence of one or more of
these flaws acting either singly or in combination. But there is no attempt
to make the accusations specific ; the critic does not go through an actual
scientific report and point out just where the errors lie in this particular
piece of work. He confines himself to vague generalities. It is suggested
even more vaguely that there is a " will to believe on the part of the
i8o] Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception 135
investigators ", in spite of the fact that some of the most successful experi-
menters were sceptics when they began their experimentation. In a recent
letter to the New York Times Magazine a lady medico asserted that a pure
mathematician would be prone to believe in mystical things like telepathy
which have no existence in fact as a relief from his professional work which
consisted of hard logical abstractions! But how can the lady possibly know
that telepathy does not exist? The issue is prejudged without the slightest
attempt to weigh up the evidence. A year ago the writer of a letter to The
Times stated that so-called telepathy was to be accounted for by supposing
that the agent and percipient had the same preference for colours, numbers,
etc. and common habits of mental association. He mentioned experiences
of his own in support of this contention. It was as if Rip Van Winkle had
suddenly awakened after a sleep of thirty years to make a pronouncement
on telepathy! Yet the Editor printed this absurdity as though it were a
serious contribution to the discussion.
It is certainly true to say that ninety-five per cent of present day
criticism of extrasensory perception is either uninformed criticism by
persons who have never made any competent study of the experimental
reports of the past thirty years or blind irrational prejudice by writers
who merely dislike the subject and its implications.
Effective criticism of the card-guessing techniques ended about the year
1940. By that time all sound objections had been adequately met by the
experimenters, and it seems very unlikely that any further weaknesses,
either experimental or statistical, will be revealed. The mathematical
criticism was trivial from the very beginning but it was true that in some
of the earlier experiments at Duke University sufficient care was not
taken to eliminate the possibility of sensory cues from the cards themselves.
But not one of the objections raised against the American experiments
could in the slightest degree apply to those done in England.
Let us now turn to a recent critique of ESP entitled "Rhine or Reason"
which appears in the autumn number of the Modern Quarterly, a
Marxist Review. It is very significant that Marxism has begun to attack
ESP. Already the Communists in Russia have issued propaganda against
Dr Rhine, and now we have this bitter polemic against extrasensory
perception appearing in an English Communist-inspired journal. It is
written by John McLeish, who is Staff Tutor in Psychology at Leeds
University. Now in my view the most serious defect of this article is the
author's obvious lack of up-to-date knowledge of his subject. Had this
critique been written in 1940 instead of in 1950 it would even then have
been ineflFective but in the past decade so many careful reports on ESP
have been published, which the writer completely ignores, that his criticism
is robbed of any value it might once have had.
He gives for instance an excellent popular discussion of the more
ordinary sources of error which aff'ect experiments in telepathy and clair-
voyance and a somewhat more superficial treatment of the statistical
aspects of card-guessing.
But there is no attempt whatever to show precisely how these different
kinds of error could have vitiated, say, the Pearce-Pratt clairvoyance
experiments in which the experimenters and guesser were in different
136 Dr S. G. Soal [Part
buildings of Duke University, or the Pratt-Woodruff series, or the very
carefully reported Martin and Stribic experiments at the University of
Colorado. Mr McLeish does not even mention the Martin and Stribic
report, or the classic picture-guessing experiment of Whately Carington, or
the Soal-Goldney report.
It is of course perfectly true that in certain of Dr Rhine's early experi-
ments insufficient care was taken to eliminate the possibility of sensory cues
from the backs of the cards. It is also true, as the writer affirms, that the
reporting of many of the experiments in Rhine's first book, Extra-
sensory Perceptio)i, does not permit the reader to form any exact picture
of the experimental procedure, but these facts are now universally ad-
mitted by all competent parapsychologists. But these objections certainly
do not apply to many of the later investigations carried out by Rhine and
his disciples. So far as I am aware, there is not a single error of the
type mentioned by Mr McLeish that could have any possible bearing on
say the Whately Carington experiments, the Martin and Stribic series or
the Soal-Goldney experiments.
Turning to my 1935-1939 experiments the author states that " Dr
Soal . . . although recognising the possible operation of some such me-
chanism as '
unconscious whispering '
or changes in breathing, failed to
take the precautions necessary to exclude this factor except for warning
the agent about it ". Here the writer is clearly referring to my pre-
liminary report, " Fresh Light on Card Guessing : Some New Effects ",
in which 160 subjects were tested. No precautions were taken to obviate
the possibility of unconscious whispering because the result of the in-
vestigation was at the time judged to be entirely negative and had been
negative for some years. It was therefore thought unnecessary to make
the conditions any more stringent than they were. This was quite plainly
stated in my report. The precognitive effects with two of the subjects
were only discovered long after the experiments were ended.
But surely what Mr McLeish has to explain away are the results of the
Soal-Goldney report, "Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy" (1943),
of whose very existence he seems to be unaware since he does not even
mention it. He has to explain just how Basil Shackleton, seated in a
different room from the agent and guessing at the rate of 25 calls per
minute could, over a period of two years, produce persistent precognitive
effects by picking up " unconscious whispers " from the agent in the next
room with the door almost completely closed. It is a tall order—especially
to explain that precognitive effect which appeared week after week with
three different agents. I cannot even imagine any reasonable explanation
in terms of " changes in breathing " or " whispering " on the part of the
agent. Referring again, I suppose, to the preliminary 1940 report,
McLeish rather cryptically remarks that the tendency to displacement
" is probably to be explained by the differences in experimental technique
which involve timing differences, rather than from the theory of subcon-
scious time-lag or discrepancy favoured by Dr Soal ". I really do not know
precisely what this sentence means and I cannot believe that the author
has even read "Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy". The timing
conditions of these Shackleton experiments as well as the whole experi-
mental set-up were exactly similar to those of the 1945-1949 Stewart
i8o] Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception 137
experiments. The Shackleton series produced on the whole no signi-
ficant excess of hits on the " target " card but a highly significant excess on
the card one ahead of the target which in 11,000 guesses corresponded to
odds of 10^^ to I against chance. On the other hand the main Stewart
series of over 37,000 trials gave a highly significant number of hits on the
actual (target) card, corresponding to odds of more than loi"" to i, whereas
on the cards i and 2 places ahead of the target there was a deficiency of
correct hits that was also very significant.
It would be very hard to explain these anomalies in terms of timing
differences and they would present a formidable problem for the " whisper-
ing " hypothesis.
Nor does Mr McLeish appear to have read my Myers Memorial Lecture
of 1947 in which a preliminary account of the Stewart experiments is
given, for his only knowledge of these experiments seems to have been
derived from a somewhat inadequate description of a single experiment
witnessed by the Science Editor of the News Chronicle. One does not
in any case expect to find a scientific report of anything in a popular
daily newspaper and I can take no responsibility for the account printed as
I had no opportunity for reading it through.
Mr McLeish writes : "A closer examination of the experimental
set-up would be necessary before Dr Soal's results can be accepted as
evidence for the ESP hypothesis, especially in view of the fact that only
two of his subjects—working in their own homes or studios—exhibited
the ability to guess the cards in a fashion better than chance would
suggest." But the experimental technique is well-known and has been
described in minute detail in the Soal-Goldney report, in Philosophy by
Professor Broad, in Penguin Science News 9 by Dr Dingwall and Mr Parsons,
in my Myers Lecture and elsewhere. Psychologists, philosophers and other
scientists have witnessed it in operation without being able to find flaws
in it. During the past nine years it has been discussed from every angle
and still resists all serious criticism as Dingwall and others have pointed
out. But Mr McLeish appears to be unaware of all this.
Nor is it correct to insinuate that Shackleton and Mrs Stewart could
only produce their results in their own homes or studios. If Mr McLeish
had read the Soal-Goldney report he would have known that Shackleton
produced exactly the same effects when he was investigated at the rooms
of the Society for Psychical Research in the presence of several persons
with scientific training and Mrs Stewart on more than one occasion
produced her most brilliant effects when shut up in the X-ray chamber of
the Royal Free Hospital.
Since Mr McLeish makes " unconscious whispering " the spearhead of
his attack on telepathy it is surely strange that he is unaware of either the
experiments carried out by means of the telephone with Mrs Stewart and
the agent in houses 150 yards apart or of the much more important
experiments carried out in 1949 with the agents in London or Richmond
and Mrs Stewart herself at Merksem near Antwerp. These last experi-
ments, conducted with the aid of carefully synchronised stop-watches,
and the 7-p.m. time signal produced a degree of success on the target card
which corresponded to odds of 10^ to i against chance. The successful
results obtained on six occasions at a distance of over 200 miles were of
138 Dr S.G. Soal [Part
precisely the same order as those obtained when Mrs Stewart and the
agent were in adjoining rooms at a distance of about 20 feet apart. I do
not know what Mr McLeish has to say about " unconscious whispering
"
or " changes of breathing " in connection with these experiments. If
" unconscious whispering " is the probable explanation of telepathy there
ought to have been a complete collapse in the results when Mrs Stewart
migrated to Belgium!
Published reports of these experiments in detail were available to Mr
McLeish six or seven months ago but rather than seek them out he prefers
to cling to the exploded hypothesis that telepathy can be accounted for by
unconscious whispering.
The author's discussion of experiments in " Pure Telepathy " designed
to exclude clairvoyance is completely out of date. He is of course correct
in his assertion that experiments in which the agent makes up a sequence of
symbols in his head are vitiated by the fact that the guesser and the agent
may possess similar order-preferences. But nowadays no serious in-
vestigator uses such methods whatever may have happened in the past.
In all modern experiments in " Pure " Telepathy a code is used by the
agent of which there is no written or other physical record. The symbols
to be transmitted are decoded mentally by means of a set of different
symbols arranged in random order. In attacking old experiments in
which order-preferences and number preferences are not eliminated the
writer is simply flogging a dead horse. Quite obviously he is unfamiliar
with the experiment conducted by Mr Bateman and myself, and described
in my Myers lecture which excluded not only clairvoyance in the present
but also the possibility of precognitive and retrocognitive clairvoyance.
Nor is there any mention of Miss McMahan's experiment on similar lines.
The writer asserts that " one looks in vain, however, in Rhine's books
for the point-by-point discussion of the alternative views of particular
experiments which have been put forward with considerable fire in the
literature devoted to these problems ". But this is not true of Rhine's
most serious book. Extrasensory Perception After Sixty Years, a large
part of which is devoted entirely to the discussion point by point of
alternative hypotheses and their possible application to individual investi-
gations.
The truth is that Mr McLeish is not sufficiently informed to make an
effective criticism of extrasensory perception. He does not know the
experimental literature sufficiently well.
If one confines oneself to attacking weak experiments and ignores all
the really strong published reports it is quite easy to make out a case
against ESP. One has only to describe a few of the ordinary sorts of
error to which experiments have been often subject and then insinuate
cleverly that even if these particular sources of error do not apply to
certain experiments these may have been vitiated by other errors not
postulated. But a quotation or two from Mr McLeish's article reveals
only too clearly that his real motivation in writing this ineffective critique
is a fear of the consequences which may follow the acceptance of ESP.
He writes :
" If therefore we subject Rhine's claims and conclusions to a
closer examination, it is not because his views are inconsistent with
materialism, but rather because the form in which they are expressed strikes
i8o] Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception 139
at the root of psychological and other scientific experimentation. Rhine
and his associates open the door to all sorts of incalculable forces, and his
theories make the practical procedures of the scientific investigator in
large part meaningless. The fashionableness of ESP in scientific circles
in Britain today represents a form of intellectual hara-kiri symptomatic of
a loss of nerve." Has it not occurred to Mr McLeish that the increasing
attention which scientific men and philosophers are giving to ESP may
have quite a different explanation? I suggest that, as Aldous Huxley
remarks, the evidence for extrasensory perception is growing so strong
that it can no longer be rejected. Or as Professor Hardy has proclaimed, it
can only be rejected by the intellectually dishonest, and, I might add, by the
intellectually timid and fearful. Incidentally I do not think Mr McLeish
need worry about the possibility that ordinary psychological experiments
may be vitiated by the intrusion of telepathy. If such a thing happened it
would be of rare occurrence since the majority of people show only feeble
evidence of telepathic powers or none at all. It is, however, quite probable
that the recognition of telepathy and precognition may require us to make
profound changes in our ordinary concepts of time and causation. But
so far as the near future is concerned, the implications will be philosophical
rather than practical.
Mr McLeish's critique abounds in misleading statements and half-
truths. He remarks that " Coover, the Stanford University investigator,
came to a negative conclusion after a long investigation under laboratory
conditions (19 17) and until his death resisted all attempts by others to
'
cook '
his resuhs ". But he carefully refrains from pointing out that on
the whole 10,000 trials conducted by Coover there were 294 correct hits
instead of the 250 expected by chance, and this excess, ignored by Coover
himself, corresponds to odds of 200 to i against the operation of chance.
As Professor Evelyn Hutchinson has remarked, papers are published every
year in biology which support hypotheses with no greater odds than this.
It was Coover himself who did the "cooking" by suppressing this fact,
and not Professor Cyril Burt nor Dr Thouless nor Dr F. C. Schiller who
drew attention to it. Odds of 200 to i in an experiment may not be con-
clusive but they are sufficient grounds for going on with the investigation,
and Coover was too inert even to attempt to discover if there was any error
in his experimental method.
But even had Coover's results been completely negative, the fact would
have been of little consequence. It would only have shown that by taking
100 students at random one cannot be certain of finding a good telepathic
subject. I did thirteen times as much work as Coover before I discovered
two persons of outstanding telepathic gifts.
Mr McLeish does not fly to that last resort of the sceptic and accuse the
investigators of fraudulent practices, but he suggests that in some cases the
subjects may have been pulling the legs of the experimenters. Now while
this might happen in a poorly controlled experiment it could not easily
happen in, say, the recent Stewart experiments. For Mrs Stewart is
seated in a different room from that containing the card-table and the
agent. An experimenter sits beside her the whole time to see that she
does not move from her place. She could only cheat if the agent or sender
were in collusion with her. But several of the agents v/ith whom she
140 Dr S. G. Soal [Part
obtained most brilliant success were members of the staff of Queen Mary
College whom she had never met until the hour of the experiment. Mrs
Stewart often did not even know the name of the person who was coming
to act as agent. Moreover the card sequences were determined from
lists of random numbers prepared by an experimenter a few hours before
the experiment.
Mr McLeish makes all sorts of suggestions as to what may happen, but
he makes no attempt to apply his theories to well-controlled investigations
and demonstrate how his suggestions could have worked in practice.
Again he hints vaguely that there is an atmosphere of excitement and
emotion prevalent at experiments in extrasensory perception. This is
simply not true of any experiments which I have attended and I have been
engaged in such experiments for over twenty years. I am quite certain
that everyone who has been present at either a Shackleton or a Stewart
experiment would readily confirm that the whole procedure was humdrum
and matter of fact from beginning to end. The results were not checked
until the end of the experiment, and until then the subject did not know
whether he was doing well or badly.
This is the kind of discrediting insinuation which in serious experiments
has no basis in fact.
In support of his contention that the subjects themselves may be fooling
the experimenters the author appeals to the Piddington performance. But
the Piddingtons refuse scientific investigation and any competent experi-
menter could in half-an-hour satisfy himself that their results were not
obtained by means of telepathy.
In certain circles we are constantly hearing rumours that a conjuror is
going to duplicate the Shackleton experiments under similar conditions
to those under which Shackleton worked. It is many years since the pro-
ect was first mooted and my latest information is that the conjurors
have not yet had sufficient practice but that matters are moving.
I would respectfully suggest that before Mr McLeish writes another
critique of extrasensory perception he would do well to make himself
more perfectly acquainted with the extensive modern experimental
literature now in existence, for his present effort is at least ten years behind
the times.
A very common remark about experiments in extrasensory perception
is that the findings—unlike those of physics and chemistry—cannot be
repeated by other workers. But this stricture requires considerable
qualification. It would be truer to say that experiments in telepathy are
difficult to repeat, and not that repetition is impossible. One reason is
that the investigator is in the position of a chemist who wants to make
experiments with some extremely rare element that is hard to obtain. In
our case a human subject with high-grade extrasensory powers corre-
sponds to the chemist's rare substance. In point of fact many of the
findings such as displacement phenomena in card or picture guessing
have been noted again and again by independent investigators, as I shall
show presently. The same is true of the decline effects first noted by Miss
Jephson and the negative scoring first discovered by Rhine.
But even were good telepathic subjects to become one day as common
i8o] Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception 141
as they are now rare, we should not expect to obtain the precise verifica-
tion of results that occurs in chemistry and physics. For mental pheno-
mena, and more especially those connected with the higher-level functions
of the mind, are extremely variable. So long as the psychologist restricts
himself to simple experiments in sense-perception, learning by rote and
so on, in which the physiology of the nervous system plays a prominent
part, the findings will show a certain uniformity because these phenomena
are partly subject to physical causation. Experiments in physics can be
exactly repeated because the results are statistical effects concerning the
average behaviour of immense numbers of elementary particles. One
cannot say with any certainty what an individual electron is going to do.
One can of course make mass predictions about the average behaviour of a
large group of human beings. If fifty thousand persons chosen at random
are asked to write down a letter of the alphabet, we can prophesy with some
confidence that only a very small proportion will choose N, I, Y, or Z and
that letter A and the labials B, M, P will be the most popular. But no-one
can predict with any certainty the letter Tom Jones will select.
Psychical research explores the deep-level aspects of human personality,
and human beings are only in part subject to physical causation. Most
men believe that when faced with two alternative courses of action the
conscious personality has the power to intervene and choose one of them.
If this belief is illusory, then clearly there can be no such thing as moral
responsibility. But if, as most of us believe, the power of conscious
choice is a reality and we are not automatons, this means that our conscious
minds can initiate physical processes within our bodies. The Will
therefore is one aspect of human personality in which something that is
non-physical comes into operation, namely the trigger action of conscious
choice. We need not be surprised then to discover regions of the human
mind where consciousness transcends time, space, and causality as we
know them in the physical world.
Physical phenomena are characterised by their uniformity and psycho-
logical phenomena by their uniqueness. As we pass from physics to
biology, thence to classical psychology, through psycho-therapy to
psychical research we find an ever-lessening degree of repeatability in the
results of experiment. But though physics and psychical research are
at opposite poles they are like two ships moving in different directions on
the same great circle and converging on the same objective. For both are
leading us back to those fundamental problems of metaphysics which
concern the nature of time and causation and the relation of man's mind
to the physical world. Physics deals with groups of sense-perceptions
which can be fitted into a certain mathematical framework; psychical
research with those deeper level processes of the mind which refuse to fit
into the framework. Both in their different ways bring us face to face with
the problem of the human observer and the nature of consciousness itself.
As Eddington has said, the footprints that we notice on the sands of the
Universe turn out in the end to be our own. Just as Eddington was led to
adopt a thorough-going idealism in his attitude to physics, so I believe that
psychical research will have to abandon the Cartesian dualism with which
it started off and espouse an idealistic philosophy which postulates different
grades of mental substance that are capable of interacting with one another.
142 Dr S. G. Soal [Part
It has sometimes been urged that parapsychology has a plethora of facts
and not enough working hypotheses. I do not think however that we can
have too many facts, provided of course that they are well-substantiated.
What the writer probably had in mind is that the facts are isolated and that
we have not yet discovered significant relations among them. In the his-
tory of most sciences there is an intermediate phase between the collection
of crude facts and the construction of fruitful hypotheses. This is the
phase of systematisation and concise description in which isolated observa-
tions are brought into relation with one another and masses of detail are
comprehended by some simple statement or formula. When Kepler
found that the multitudinous observations of Tycho Brahe on the positions
of the planets were consistent with the supposition that each planet moved
in an ellipse with the sun at a focus and that the radius joining the planet
to the sun swept out equal areas in equal times, and that for different
planets the squares of the periodic times were proportional to the cubes of
the major axes, this concise description created order out of chaos and
paved the way for Newton's great hypothesis. I would not for a moment
suggest that parapsychology is in sight of any such major clarification.
But in a smaller way there are signs that certain workers are searching for
relations among the facts of extrasensory perception. I have been much
impressed by a series of papers by Dr J. G. Pratt and Mrs Esther Bond
Foster dealing with the phenomenon of displacement which have ap-
peared in recent numbers of the Journal of Parapsychology. Displacement
occurs when a card-guesser names correctly and with significant frequency
the card which is one or two places behind or ahead of the target card at
which he is consciously aiming. If he scores significantly on the card one
place ahead of the target card this is known as ( + i) displacement ; if on
the card one place behind (
- i) displacement. In the case where cards are
arranged in a pile at the beginning of the experiment and lifted off one by
one as they are guessed, there is no particular reason to suppose that the
( + i) shift has anything to do with time. The displacement may be of
a purely spatial kind. In the case of Basil Shackleton ( + i) displacement
occurred even when the card sequence was not in existence at the start of
the experiment but was determined during the test by a person who
selected coloured counters from a bag or bowl by touch one after another.
Here there are reasons for thinking that we were dealing with a displace-
ment into future or past time.
The earliest observation of displacement in card-guessing of which I
have any knowledge was made in 1938 by Dr C. G. Abbott, an astro-
physicist who was at one time Secretary to the Smithsonian Institution
at Washington. Dr Abbott made a successful repetition of Rhine's card-
guessing tests with the clairvoyance condition using himself as the subject.
He noticed that when he was feeling tired or run-down he failed to guess
correctly the card at which he was aiming but that his guess was often
right for the immediately preceding or following card. In 1949 Dr
Abbott tested himself again with the Zener cards and reported quite
significant ( + 1) and (-1) displacements, these being of about equal
magnitude. In 1940 Whately Carington published his classical paper on
picture-guessing which produced evidence that when he pinned up a
different drawing in his study on each of ten consecutive evenings the
i8o] Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception 143
subjects in many cases got correct impressions, not of the sketch exhibited
on the night on which they made their drawing, but of the one pinned up by
Carington a night or two earUer or later. Carington's work, as is well
known, led to the discovery that two of my own card-guessing subjects,
Mrs Gloria Stewart and Mr Basil Shackleton, had produced highly
significant ( + 1) and (
- i) displacements over a series of many hundred
guesses. In a long series of further experiments carried out with Mr
Shackleton by Mrs K. M. Goldney and myself, he continued to produce
( + 1) displacement with each of two agents and both ( + 1) and (-1)
displacement with a third agent. When the rate of calling was speeded up
to double the normal rate the (±1) shift gave way to a (+2) shift. Since
the publication of our report on Precognitive Telepathy significant dis-
placement efliects have been recorded by several workers—notably by
Thouless and Oram in England and by Birge, Bindrum, Abbott and Stuart
in America. None of these effects, however, were comparable in magni-
tude with those observed in the cases of Shackleton and Mrs Stewart.
In 1943 W. Russell re-examined for displacement five records by
American subjects who had produced high scores on the target card but
discovered no evidence of displacement. Until the pubhcation of the new
work by Pratt and Foster the phenomenon of displacement appeared as an
oddity—a queer exception to the rule that telepathic or clairvoyant
subjects in general hit the target at which they are aiming. In the work
carried out with Mrs Stewart from 1945-1949, however, F. Bateman and I
observed for the first time a new type of displacement which we have
called " negative " displacement. This must not be confused with back-
ward or (
- i) displacement. What happened was that Mrs Stewart
showed a significant tendency to choose certain of her guesses so as to
avoid scoring a hit on the card which immediately followed the target card
or the card which immediately preceded it. That is to say she scored on
( + I ) and (
- I
)
targets many less hits than even chance might be expected
to produce. This avoidance extends also to about the same degree on
( + 2) targets and to a lesser degree on (
- 2) targets. On the actual target
itself there is a very large positive score which on the main series of 37,100
trials amounts to over 25 standard deviations. Compared with this the
negative deviations on displacement targets are small though highly
significant—that is except in the case of the (
- 2) deviation.
Our first tentative explanation of these negative effects was to assume
that they were the result of subconscious motivation on the part of Mrs
Stewart. We had some reason to think that she was jealous of Shackleton
and wished to avoid a slavish imitation of his positive displacement
phenomena. As a consequence we assumed that some kind of censor in
the subconscious stationed itself at the gateway and inhibited guesses which
would be correct on the displacement targets from passing into her
conscious mind.
Pratt and Foster have recently examined the original records of the
extensive series of clairvoyance experiments carried out by Dorothy H.
Martin and Frances Stribic at the University of Colorado prior to the
year 1938. These are among the best-controlled of American card-
guessing experiments. Up to date Pratt and Foster have been concerned
with the work of Martin and Stribic's two best subjects known as D.W.
144 Dr S. G. Soal [Part
and C.J. Both these percipients, in the series studied, worked under
similar conditions. A pack of 25 Zener cards was shuffled behind a screen
and the subject guessed the order of the cards from top to bottom of the
pack which remained undisturbed till the guessing was complete. This
is usually known as the DT (Down Through) method. Each subject ran
through a shuffled pack about 300 times. The averages of correct hits on
the " target " card made by C.J. and D.W. were almost identical, these
being 7.3 and 7.5 respectively for a pack of 25. These results are extremely
significant. But Pratt and Foster have now disclosed a result which lay
unsuspected for twelve years. They find that both D.W. and C.J. pro-
duced very significant forward ( + 1) displacement of a negative kind.
That is, each tended to avoid scoring correct hits on the card which
immediately followed the target card. In the case of D.W. the overall
( + i) negative displacement amounts to 3.36 standard deviations but with
C.J. it reaches the high figure of 9.1 standard deviations. The odds
against chance corresponding to the last result are of the order 10^* to i
and C.J.'s record constitutes the most remarkable case of displacement
encountered since Shackleton. In making these estimates the high scoring
on the target card in conjunction with the fact that Martin and Stribic
used packs containing five cards of each symbol have been taken into
account. The over-all backward (
- i
)
displacement scores for these
subjects are normal, that is what would be expected by chance.
But the most fascinating find of Pratt and Foster is the discovery that this
tendency to avoid the card one place ahead is not an efl^ect which is ran-
domly or indifferently distributed throughout the whole of the scoring
sheet. It has on the contrary a very definite positional relationship to the
hits registered on the direct targets. In those regions where there is an
absence of direct hits on the target forward negative ( + i
)
displacement is a
dominant feature. Thus in the case of a pair of consecutive misses or
failures on the direct targets represented schematically as follows :
there is a highly significant tendency for guess A which has missed its
own direct target to miss also the ( + i) target D, always provided that D
has been missed by its own direct call C. That is to say in the case of a
pair of direct failures in succession the second failure is frequently
heralded by a ( + i) precognitive failure. This might suggest that in those
areas where ESP is not functioning directly there is sometimes a censored
form of ESP still in operation. We may suppose that the function of the
censor is to prevent the ESP impressions from slipping into the normal
consciousness of the subject. In a world adapted to sense-perception
ESP is a disturbing influence which must be suppressed in the interests
of everyday living. We may think of the censor as trying to discourage
this primitive awareness of the organism which we call extrasensory
cognition. He may inhibit a card symbol known by ESP from emerging
into consciousness by suggesting one of the other four symbols to the
Fig. ii)
Guess Target
B
D
A
C
i8o] Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception 145
conscious mind. At the first of the two guesses in Fig. (i) the censor may
know that target D is an ESP impression in the offing, as it were. He
throws up a different symbol A into consciousness. At the second of the
two guesses he is aware that D is now trying to sHp into consciousness as a
direct target, and this is again inhibited by the substitution of a different
symbol C.
Another way of stating the statistical effect described above is to observe
that in the case of pairs of consecutive misses on the direct targets the
total ( + I ) for\vard displacement score is exceeded very greatly by the
total ( - i) backward displacement score worked out for these pairs and
that this holds for both the subjects D.W. and C.J.
Quite a different situation arises in the case of pairs which consist of a
miss followed by a direct hit, or conversely of a direct hit followed by a
miss. These cases are represented schematically by [a) and [b) respectively
:
Fig. (ii)
(«) Guess Target
A B Miss
C C Hit
Guess Target
A A Hit
B C Miss
The tendency now is for the fonvard ( + i) displacement in case (a) to be
greater than the backward (
- i) displacement in case (b). This difference
is significant, however, only in the case of the subject D.W. but still
suggestive in the case of C.J. In fact the general trend in case (a) is
towards a ( + i) forward positive displacement and this is the reverse of the
( + i) forward negative displacement noted with pairs of misses.
There is indeed a tendency for the subject to anticipate a direct hit
precognitively one guess before he reaches it in the sequence.
Hence (a) becomes
Fig. (Hi)
Guess Target
C B
C C
Quite possibly the subject is unable to distinguish subconsciously between
a correct impression that is precognitive and one that is direct. He may
for instance in Fig. (iii) believe that he is guessing directly two consecutive
cards bearing the same symbol.
As Pratt and Foster carefully emphasise, it is not at present possible to
say which is the correct interpretation out of a number of alternatives
which the authors suggest in order to cover these interesting findings.
My own suggestion that there are regions of the scoring sheet in which
ESP is functioning so strongly that the censor allows both direct hits and
( + 1) hits to escape into consciousness, and other regions in which ESP
is so weak that the censor can cope with both direct and precognitive hits,
146 Dr S. G. Soal [Part
may of course prove quite unacceptable in the light of further enquiry.
The authors' work is not presented as a complete study but as a progres-
sive programme of research in which more and more records will be
examined and reported upon after they have been subjected to the same
analysis as that applied to the work of D.W. and C.J.
Although the experimental conditions under which D.W. and C.J.
worked are very similar, the results exhibit some curious differences. But
this is only to be expected in view of what was said about the uniqueness
of extrasensory phenomena. Each subject's performance represents his
own personality reaction to the experimental situation, and this reaction
is modified by the extra-personal relations of the group with which he is
working. It was found for instance with C.J. that as the number of correct
hits on the target card increased within the run, the average negative
forward ( + i )
displacement on a pair of consecutive misses also increased
numerically in a significant regression. There was a similar though some-
what slower numerical increase on the average positive backward (-1)
displacement on pairs of consecutive misses which ran parallel to the
increase in the number of direct hits in the run. No such relationship
between direct and displacement scoring was observed in the case of the
other subject.
Again the authors found that the negative score on forward displace-
ment was, with C.J. particularly, marked on pairs of consecutive misses
that immediately followed after direct hits, but this was not true of D.W.
Pratt and Foster suggest that C.J.'s strong negative forward displacement
after a direct hit may be his own personal reaction to a successful hit on the
target card at which he is consciously aiming. This would imply that
C.J. was subconsciously aware of having succeeded by ESP and responded
in a way that was peculiar to his own psychological make-up. Another
subject might produce a quite different response. It is pointed out that
there are chronological variations in types of ESP functioning to be
observed even in the same individual when his records are studied over a
sufficiently long period of time. In other series by C.J., both earlier and
later than the one under present consideration, forward negative displace-
ment on pairs of consecutive misses is absent though the subject continues
his high scoring on the target card. This does not mean that in selecting
C.J.'s (DT) series for special examination from the mass of his other work
we have created a mere statistical artifact. For the authors show by means
of a " /
" test that if we work out the average difference per run of ( + i) and
(
- I ) scores obtained from pairs of consecutive misses the corresponding
" /
" value is 7.5 instead of the expected o value with 299 degrees of
freedom. Such a value would be expected to occur by chance only once
in about lo^^ such series.
Again, the displacement phenomena of Mrs Stewart showed a complete
reversal in sign when we re-started our experiments in 1945 after an
interval of eight years. That is, in 1936 she was scoring hits on the cards
one place ahead or behind the card she was aiming at, but for the past
five years she has been avoiding these two cards in a significant degree.
It will be asked whether the new series has shown displacement effects
similar to those discovered in the work of C.J. and D.W. As yet only a
very cursory examination has been made of the Stewart records from this
i8o] Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception 147
standpoint but it seems probable that the negative ( + i) forward displace-
ment is not uniformly distributed over the series and that it is related to
success on the target card. We do not, however, anticipate the particular
effects described by Pratt and Foster.
The appearance of both positive and negative displacement in different
regions of the scoring sheet opens up interesting possibilities. It may well
prove to be the case that displacement is less an exception than a normal
accompaniment of scoring on a sequence of targets, as indeed Carington's
work seemed to suggest. Quite possibly in series which show no over-all
displacement there may exist both positive and negative displacements
which are separately significant but which cancel each other on the whole.
The findings of Pratt and Foster are certainly thought-provoking, if
very puzzling, and until many more cases of high scoring have been
analysed for such eff^ects one ought to be cautious in deciding which is the
most satisfactory of a number of possible explanations. As Dr Pratt has
remarked, the answer to puzzling facts is to be found in more facts.
The original experimenters, Martin and Stribic, do not even mention
displacement in their long and careful report, and the discovery twelve
years later of these totally unexpected results lends confirmation, if this
were needed, of the authentic character of their work. One could hardly
suppose that investigators or percipients would go to the immense trouble
of faking these out-of-the-way effects without even drawing anyone's
attention to them for a period of twelve years.
In our present state of knowledge it would probably be as futile to ask
what extrasensory perception is as to ask what an electron really is. If,
as Professor Price has suggested, ESP is a primitive kind of awareness
which is characteristic of all matter, then it is probably not confined to
living organisms. In a certain sense it might be said that two electrons
in different states behave as if they were mutually aware of each other. If
the basis of ESP is an all-pervasive fundamental awareness, it would not
appear to be possible for the human mind to get behind it or to analyse
it into any simpler elements. The various types of sense-perception,
developed by living organisms as they ascend in the scale of evolution,
would on the above view be regarded as highly differentiated and canalised
forms of the primordial awareness. The primitive awareness thereby
becomes imprisoned in space and time and thus subject to the laws of
physics. As living organisms develop increasingly complex sensory
apparatus, more and more of the general awareness will be directed into
sensory channels and extrasensory awareness will tend to disappear.
This suggests that psychical researchers who are competent biologists
might devise experiments to detect extrasensory perception at various
levels of the animal kingdom. Experiments with domestic animals and
birds are obviously indicated, but more lowly creatures might also be used.
For instance does ESP play any part in the homing instincts of newts?
Do ants exhibit any extrasensory powers? Does ESP assist a salmon
which returns to spawn in the same river in which it passed its early life
even after the lapse of several years spent in the ocean, and upper migrations
extending to hundreds of miles ? These are fascinating problems which are
too often ignored by biologists.
148 Dr S. G. Soal [Part
Any theory that we form as to the working of extrasensory perception
must rest ukimately upon what view we take of the mind-body relation.
If for instance we beUeve that all mental events are caused by physical
events which occur in the brain and nervous system and that mental
events can never cause bodily events or other mental events, then it becomes
impossible to explain precognition and clairvoyance and extraordinarily
difficult to give any satisfactory account of telepathy. But I think it would
be correct to say that very few first-class philosophers either of the present
generation or in the past have accepted epiphenomenalism as it is called.
The only people who cling to it nowadays are the physiologists and the
behaviourist psychologists. The pretensions of the latter have been
mercilessly exposed by Professor Broad in his book, The Mind and its
Place in Nature.
Any theory which hopes to interpret psychical phenomena must postu-
late I think that mental events such as ideas, images etc. exist in their own
right and are not synonymous with chemical and electrical events that
take place in nervous systems. This was conceded by Whately Carington
in his Association Theory of telepathy. Following Bertrand Russell,
Carington considers the mind to consist of a large number of elementary
constituents—sense data and images. Images are of the same nature as
sense-data only less vivid and constant, and Carington uses the word
" psychon " to cover both sense-data and images. Certain tensions and
relations exist among the members of a psychon system, and this is what is
meant by saying that the system is conscious. Those groups of the system
in which tensions are particularly strong at a given instant would constitute
the normal consciousness of the mind, while the more quiescent groups
would constitute its subconscious. Carington evidently supposes that the
subconscious psychon systems of different minds have no relation to
physical space and that they form one large subconscious system or com-
mon mind. The concept of a big mind composed of individual minds is
of course an old one which goes back to the mysticism of ancient India, but
Carington makes it somewhat more plausible by the atomic theory of mind
which he adopts.
Carington then assumes that the laws of association of ideas operate
within the large mind just as they do in individual minds. In a telepathy
experiment the agent or sender associates the object he is trying to transmit
with the general idea of the experiment. This idea of the experimental
set-up is, however, also present in the mind of the distant subject or re-
ceiver. This mutual idea is therefore likely to call up by association from
the common subconscious into the mind of the guesser the impression the
agent is trying to send. Carington suggested that the more ideas the agent
and subject have in common that are associated in the agent's mind with
the transmission object, the better the experiment ought to succeed.
The theory would appear to be most plausible when applied to Caring-
ton's own type of experiment in which a single sketch, say of a ship, is
pinned up in a room for several hours and is associated in the mind of the
agent with the experimental set-up. But consider what happens in an
ordinary card-guessing experiment in telepathy in which five different
symbols are presented to the agent in random order at the rate of one
every two or three seconds. After a hundred cards have been called, each
i8o] Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception 149
symbol has been " associated " with the idea of the experiment about
twenty times. Can we really believe that at guess No. loi the power of
association has any efficacy in calling up, say, the idea of a circle rather than
that of any one of the other four geometrical symbols? If five different
objects, one allotted to each symbol, were presented to the agent at the
same time as the corresponding cards, and these same objects were pre-
sented in the same order to the guesser, this might give association a
better chance to work. Yet it must be admitted that card-guessing experi-
ments are at least as successful as picture-guessing experiments of the type
carried out by Carington.
But there are probably other factors quite as potent as contiguous
association which govern the recall of images from the subconscious.
The ideas which emerge into our conscious minds most frequently are
those around which our emotional interests are centred. If I see a tall
church spire, that is associated in my mind with a great many things
—
with church bells, religious services, English history, and so on ; but if I
happen to be an enthusiastic mountaineer I am more likely to think of the
Matterhorn than of any of these. This suggests that we might choose for
our agent a person with five dominant interests which were also interests
of the percipient, and employ symbols representing those interests.
Personally I have not found any evidence that by increasing the number
of associative links between agent and guesser the experiment is any more
successful. This certainly did not happen in the London-Cambridge
experiments in which Mrs Stewart in London tried to get results with an
agent in Cambridge who was unknown to her at the start of the test. First
we provided her with a photograph of the agent, then with a photograph
of the card-table showing a violin resting on it and finally with a detailed
description of the room in which the agent sat at Cambridge, but her score
showed no improvement.
As regards the psychon theory itself, I can only say that to a plain man
like myself it seems very odd indeed. For, according to Carington, the
mind consists of nothing but a fluctuating group of images and sense data,
some arising from the body and some from the external world. No
directive or controlling agency is postulated. But there are many things
which happen in our minds besides the experience of sense and images.
There are for instance judgements and discriminations, beliefs that certain
propositions are true or false, inferences, aesthetic feelings and so on.
Now these things appear to our introspection to be of a totally different
nature from sense-perceptions and mental images. How then do they
arise in a mind whose fundamental constituents are sensa and images } We
might suppose them to be emergent qualities arising from groups and
sensa and images. But if we have to assume that systems of psychons have
properties whose nature or existence could not be deduced from the
qualities of the individual psychons I cannot see that this is going to
furnish us with any very intelligible theory of the structure of the mind.
On Carington's theory I cannot see how the mind would ever be able
to transcend its immediate perceptions or how scientific knowledge and
constructive imagination could have arisen.
But though the psychon theory seems inadequate (to me at least) to
account for the whole range of mental phenomena, it may still provide us
Dr S. G. Soal [Part
with useful suggestions in the study of telepathy. I agree with Professor
Price that some kind of atomic theory of ideas and images is more helpful
in psychical research than a unitary theory of the mind. We must be able
to think of ideas and images as non-physical things which have an existence
that is independent of the mind by which they were originally owned.
That is, when an image is no longer present in consciousness it still
continues to exist, but is now more loosely attached to the mind and under
favourable circumstances is free to insert itself into another person's
consciousness.
Whether the association theory of telepathy is really useful is a matter
to be tested by experiment. In my own work I have not found much
support for it, though I am not sure that I have found any evidence that
actually tells against it. Last year Mr Bateman and I carried out with
Mrs Stewart a good many tests in which two efficient agents focussed at
each call simultaneously on different card symbols. On the assumption
that ideas emerge by association from a common subconscious sub-
stratum it would be reasonable to expect that the percipient would receive
impressions from both agents and would probably be unable to discrimi-
nate which came from A and which from B. That is, she would, since the
agents were about equally good, now get a correct impression from A
and now one from B and thus score significantly with both agents. But
in practice this never happened. We found that she made a high score
with one of the two agents but obtained nothing from the other. If she
really received impressions from both A and B—though not necessarily
from both at the same call —she was apparently able to distinguish, at
some level of her mind, between impressions coming from A and those
coming from B, and then ignore one set of impressions. But if she was
receiving impressions from A only, this does not fit in very well with the
association theory.
It was noticed, however, on certain occasions that when Mrs Stewart
was informed beforehand that a person A was to be the agent but was left
in ignorance of the fact that a second agent B was working in opposition
to A, she succeeded with A but made no contact with B. In such a case
it is possible, as Mr C. W. K. Mundle has suggested, that the idea of
" A being the agent " which is common to both A and the percipient may
serve as a " K " object in Carington's sense and cause A's card images
to emerge by association into Mrs Stewart's mind. B of course also
possesses this idea but to him it has not the same personal significance.
Whether there is anything in this suggestion could only be determined
hy suitable experiments.
Carington's theory fails of course to provide any satisfactory explanation
of clairvoyance, a term which is usually understood to mean extra-
sensory knowledge of an event in the physical world which could not be
derived from an acquaintance with the present, past, or future states of
some human or animal mind. The difficulties in the way of accounting
for clairvoyance on any hypothesis of physical radiation from material
objects has been sufficiently emphasised by both Professor Broad and
Dr Rhine, and I need not recapitulate them. Nor can Carington's theory
explain precognitive telepathy. Carington himself inclined to the belief
that cases of apparent clairvoyance were to be explained in terms of pre-
i8o] Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception 151
cognitive telepathy, for which phenomenon he thought there was adequate
independent evidence. It is certainly true that the great majority of
clairvoyance experiments with Zener cards could be accounted for by
assuming acts of precognitive telepathy on the part of the guesser. That
is, we suppose that the guesser did not directly cognise the symbols on
the cards themselves but that he became aware of the future mental
images which would be present in the mind of the person who ultimately
checked the order of the cards in the pack against the list of guesses.
Experiments were therefore designed to eliminate the possibility of pre-
cognitive telepathy, and certain of the tests gave results which, it was
claimed, could only be accounted for by postulating clairvoyance.
At the risk of re-opening a discussion of which I imagine most of us are
heartily tired, I will state my own opinion that it is still possible to question
the adequacy of certain of these tests as actually carried out.
Let us consider for instance the experiment recorded by Drs Humphrey
and Pratt in the Journal of Parapsychology, December 1941. In this test
a large number of Zener cards were taken and each card was enclosed in
an opaque sealed envelope. There were five chutes, each provided with
a kind of letter-box opening, and on each letter box was pinned one of
the five Zener symbols. The guesser was asked to drop each envelope
into the chute whose symbol he thought matched the card enclosed. The
envelopes fell down the chutes into five boxes, but in falling the order in
which the envelopes were dropped into the chutes was not preserved.
The boxes were in another room and were unobserved by either the
guesser or the experimenters. In order to check the success of this
experiment the investigator had only to count the number of correct cards
which fell into each box.
Actually the evidence for clairvoyance was indirect, for there were
significantly fewer correct guesses than chance would predict. There was
in fact a negative deviation, and the odds against this being due to chance
coincidence amounted to about 1,000 to i. The assumption underlying
the experiment was that the guesser when about to drop, say, the tenth
envelope into a chute, would be unable to obtain from the mind of the
person who ultimately opened the envelope, the fact that this tenth
envelope contained a circle, since when the checker opens it he cannot
know that it is the tenth envelope owing to the original order having been
destroyed. All that the guesser could obtain by precognitive telepathy
from the checker's mind is that ultimately each box will contain so many
circles, so many squares, etc., and this would be of little or no assistance to
him in identifying the card in the particular envelope he is holding.
But the assumption that the envelopes were indistinguishable from one
another was clearly not true in this particular experiment, since each
envelope had affixed to it a band of brown paper on which a code number
and letter were written. If therefore the guesser noted the number Q12
on an envelope before he dropped it into one of the five chutes, he could
obtain by precognitive telepathy from the mind of the checker who
ultimately opened the envelope, the fact that Q12 contained, say, a circle.
But even had the envelopes borne no code numbers, certain of them might
have been distinguished by, say, prominent specks on their faces or backs.
We have plenty of evidence that persons with good eyesight and good
Dr S. G. Soal [Part
visual memory are able to recognise a plain new postcard previously seen
after it has been mixed with several others of similar make. Even new
playing cards can be distinguished by means of specks and irregularities
on their backs. To make the experiment completely satisfactory it should
have been carried out in the dark and the envelopes dropped into the
chutes by guessers who wore gloves.
The apparatus invented by Mr Denys Parsons and based on similar
principles is free from these objections, but so far as I am aware no suc-
cessful experiments in clairvoyance have yet been made with it.
I do not mean to imply by these comments that there is no good evidence
for clairvoyance, but only that in such experiments as I am acquainted with
there is room for some improvement.
May I in conclusion make a few remarks about future methods of experi-
ment in extrasensory perception? I am not alone in the belief that the
present card-guessing and picture-guessing tests will have to be supple-
mented by more delicate kinds of experiment if we are to learn anything
really worth while about the true nature of the extrasensory process. The
present methods can teach us very little for instance about the means by
which the telepathic impulse emerges into consciousness. A greater use
might be made of psycho-analytic techniques and I would suggest that the
almost forgotten work of the psychologist Abramowski should be resumed
on a statistical basis. Abramowski did experiments which bring out the
close analogy between the realisation of an idea by a telepathic percipient
and the revival of a memory. According to this psychologist unrealised
memory states exist in the form of emotional equivalents. These emo-
tional equivalents which he thought form an important constituent of the
bodily co-aesthesia manifest their existence to introspection when we try to
recall to memory some forgotten name. We are conscious of a certain
feeling tone which seems, as it were, to contain the forgotten image at its
core. But Abramowski was able to go further and compare experimentally
the relative strengths of these memory equivalents by studying the
different resistances which they offered to false suggestion.
Thus he would make one of his subjects read aloud in succession a list of
twenty concrete names or twenty proper names, as the case might be. The
subject would retain several of these words, but there would be certain
words which he had definitely forgotten. Abramowski made him write
down all the words he could definitely recall and then selected from his list
one of the forgotten words. He would now make a false suggestion to the
subject, and ask him if that was one of the forgotten words. The first
suggestion would be very remote from the real word and the subject would
probably refuse the suggestion. The experimenter would then proffer
another suggestion nearer in association to the real word but still not the
real word. The subject might refuse this word emphatically or he might
feel doubtful. Various words would be suggested, each nearer to the real
word, and if the resistance of the forgotten word was strong the subject
would refuse every word until the true word was reached, which he would
accept.
But if the resistance of the forgotten word was weak, the subject would
either accept an associated word or not even recognise the real word.
i8o] Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception 153
Experimenting in this way Abramowski found that concrete nouns have a
far stronger resistance to false suggestion than abstract nouns or numbers.
Abramowski next went on to make experiments in telepathy with
forgotten words. He would first make his subject read aloud in succession
a list of words consisting of concrete nouns, proper nouns, or abstract
nouns, as the case might be.
The subject would note down as before the words he remembered. The
experimenter would then concentrate mentally on one of the forgotten
words, visualising its concrete meaning, etc. The subject would keep
himself passive and if the experiment was successful he would be able to
recall the word. Sometimes Abramowski made experiments by giving
his subjects four or five words to choose from while he concentrated on
one of them, thus anticipating the Rhine technique. It was found that the
telepathy experiments were most successful with those words whose
memor}' equivalents had the strongest resistance to false suggestion.
There was more success with concrete names than with proper names
and least success in the case of numbers.
In order to show that the development of the telepathic image is intro-
spectively similar to the development of an ordinary memory image, the
experimenter made his subject read aloud a list of forty words consisting
in equal numbers of concrete nouns, proper nouns, adjectives, and abstract
nouns. The subject then wrote down the words remembered. Abramow-
ski then made verbal suggestions on the forgotten words of the different
categories. Sometimes it happened that when a true word was suggested
the subject denied that it was in the list at all. On the other hand the
subject declared that certain false words suggested were in the list. The
experimenter then presented the true word that had been denied together
with false words that had been accepted, and asked the subject to say which
of the three words was in the list. Usually he chose one of the two false
words. Without telling him whether he was correct or not the experi-
menter told him to shut his eyes and remain passive. Meanwhile the
experimenter concentrated mentally on the true word which had been
rejected. In the majority of cases the subject changed his mind saying that
the rejected word now seemed to be in the list and that the false words had
lost their feeling of being in the series. It happened a little later when the
telepathic influence had disappeared that the subject frequently reverted
to his original opinion and voted for the false words again.
It would at least be worth while to repeat Abramowski's experiments
on a larger scale, and it should not be at all difficult to devise an appropriate
statistical method for evaluating the results.
Proceedings of the
- Society for Psychical Research
Part i8i
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
By Dr Gilbert Murray, O.M.
{Delivered at a General Meeting of the Society on 21 May 1952)
I observe that almost all the most impressive addresses given of late to
this Society have begun with an apology. They come from highly
qualified philosophers, like Professors Broad and Price, who can analyse
the implications of the evidence, or at least of the current interpretations
of it ; or from long and exact students of the history of the S.P.R., like
Mr and Mrs Salter ; or from experts who have observed or conducted
long series of scientifically controlled experiments. How much more
humbly must a complete non-expert like me make his apologies, when
attempting to discuss the whole field of Psychical Research, and in part
to explain the one corner of it in which he has had some personal experi-
ence.
On his last visit to Oxford William James once said to me, in a discus-
sion about the future of religious belief, that he thought it would be
largely affected by the result of the researches of this Society. The state-
ment made me reflect. If we take religion in a narrow doctrinal sense,
there has certainly been a great liberalizing and internationalizing move-
ment. The Pope has lately been addressing a collection of twenty-four
thousand boys and girls, some Protestant and some Catholic. On com-
mittees at Geneva or Lake Success, Moslems, Jews, Hindus, Christians
and Buddhists have worked together for various beneficient purposes
without feeling any call to address each other as Unbelieving Dogs. But
I do not think this Society played any part in that great change. If, how-
ever, we take " religion " in a very wide sense, as meaning what has been
called the " inherited conglomerate " of beliefs, habits, expectations,
approvals and disapprovals dominant in a given society at a given time,
I think one's judgement would be rather different. There have been
during the last two or three generations in England some large and sur-
prising changes of outlook, in some of which I should judge that the
S.P.R. has played a rather interesting part. We must not exaggerate.
There is much truth in Andrew Bradley's statement that the supposed
Victorian family is the greatest work of creative imagination that the
twentieth century has produced. Nor must we forget that the " inherited
conglomerate " is always to some degree in a flux, varying from old to
young, from generation to generation, and of course varying widely in
the same generation between the educated and uneducated. Still the
G ISS
Dr Gilbert Murray [Part
changes of the last seventy or eighty years have been rather exceptionally
marked.
Of course, the political, social and economic problems have greatly
changed. But I doubt if Psychical Research has had any great effect on
them. In science itself the advances have been almost revolutionary,
especially, I suppose, in physics. I was brought up to believe that the
types of certain truth were Euclid's theorems and Newton's law of gravita-
tion. Einstein showed them both to be inadequate and in a sense unreal.
What was one to believe after that? I was brought up to believe that the
Earth was gradually cooling and that, like the Moon, she would become
too cold to support life. Then, on the contrary, I learned that she would
become intolerably hot ; and later, that neither view was true, she would
explode. I was told that the sun was a fixed star. Not at all ; the whole
universe was receding at enormous speed ; that it was expanding ; that
it was coming into existence ; and lastly, when the layman's mind was
already reeling, that space itself was curved—whatever that might mean.
The orthodox conglomerate was wonderfully open-minded and ready to
welcome new ideas, except indeed just in the region that interests us most.
There it was decidedly intolerant, would stand no nonsense. It would
not listen. A belief in hypnosis, for instance, now a well-ascertained fact,
was beyond the pale. The fact that various strange phenomena, which
we now explain as hypnotic, were handed down in the popular tradition,
told against them rather than for them to the scientific convention of the
day. They seemed to be only old superstitions revived. The Viennese
physician Mesmer, whose hypnotic cures had spread his fame all over
Europe, was treated as a charlatan, examined in a hostile spirit and finally
discredited. A generation later EUiotson, Professor of Medicine at London
University, was ordered by the authorities to discontinue his hypnotic
experiments, whereupon he resigned his chair. About the same time
Esdaile, a surgeon in the Indian Service, performed some three hundred
operations under hypnotic anaesthesia, but medical journals refused to
publish his reports. In 1842 W. S. Ward in London amputated a thigh
with the patient under " mesmeric trance ", and reported the case to the
Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society. The Society heard, but refused
to listen ; the patient was accused of being an imposter, and the record
of any such paper having been read was struck from the minutes of the
Society. It was not until nearly a hundred years after Mesmer's chief
cases, when Charcot took up hypnosis at the Salpetriere, that hypnosis
gained full credence and was accepted as a branch of medical practice.^
A very similar history of intolerance could be told of faith-healing, tele-
pathy, and various other phenomena. A great part of the whole science
of psychology has developed from the systematic observation of pheno-
mena which would have been scornfully set aside a hundred years ago as
superstitions unworthy of attention.
Do not let us be unjust to this sceptical or negative attitude. We must
not forget how close Europe still was to very cruel and revolting super-
stitions. England itself was comparatively safe. The statute prescribing
the burning of witches had been repealed in 1738, though Ruth Osborn
' I have quoted the above almost verbally from M. Polanyi's The Logic of
Liberty (Routledge, 1951).
i8i] Presidential Address 157
was ducked as a witch and then murdered by a mob in Hertfordshire,
close to London, in 1751. But in Ireland, in my own lifetime, a child,
who was for some reason reputed to be a changeling, was beaten and
burned with irons, the mother being locked out of the room while the
invading fairy was exorcised, though unfortunately the child died in the
process. A witch was burned in a village near Monte Cassino, so I am
told by a friend who lived there, ini9i2ori9i3. I knew an Englishman
who somehow" lost his memory in Italy, and was found some days after
tied up in a market-place as a madman and beaten to drive out the evil
spirit. In northern Greece a friend of mine found a madman tied up in
a public place for anyone passing to beat as he chose. Such possibilities
were near enough to have left behind them a real horror. So no wonder
the men of science felt that the great need of the time was not to search
sympathetically for such elements in old beliefs as might be really true,
but firmly to reject the whole mass of degrading and inhuman nonsense.
None the less this excessively sceptical attitude provoked some reac-
tion. There really are more things in the world than the science of any
period can fully account for. One can see the feeling of this in many
leading nineteenth-century thinkers, such as Carlyle and Ruskin, and even
in J. S. Mill himself. And, of course, a much grosser kind of superstition
makes a lasting appeal to human nature. The preacher who cries in
Carlyle's words, " Come unto me ye who hunger and thirst to be bam-
boozled ", will always find a response. Among the remote and unedu-
cated, particularly perhaps among the Celtic fringes, there was generally
a survival, or sometimes a passionate resurgence, of unauthorised super-
natural beliefs.
Much of the boldest and most uncritical offensive, however, came from
America. The fact is patent, and I think one can see the explanation.
In that great democracy the common man, however unqualified, has
pretty full freedom of speech. The aristocratic tradition in England and
Europe generally makes the uneducated rather timid about asserting their
own ideas in public against those of the experts. The actual founder of
American spiritualism is said to have been Andrew Jackson Davis of
Poughkeepsie, who was thrown into genuine trances and expounded a
mystical doctrine of spirit communion, called Harmonial Philosophy, in
several large volumes.^ But Spiritualism as a vigorous popular movement
seems to have started chiefly from the Fox sisters. The two younger pro-
duced communications from the spirits by means of raps, and also various
poltergeist phenomena. Both, it seems, were remarkably attractive young
women, while the mother and eldest sister were experts in salesmanship.
They had astonishing success both in America and in England, where so
great a scientist as Sir William Crookes was convinced by them. Their
father, however, had been a drunkard, and the girls eventually took after
him. Kate wrote and withdrew confessions proclaiming that the pheno-
mena were all a fraud—excepting, curiously enough, the actual raps,
which were in some sense genuine. Margaret confirmed the confession,
and the whole business ended in singular squalor. One cannot but sus-
pect that if the arts of observation and detection had been better developed
in the middle of the last century, many of the wonder-workers of the time
F. Podmore's Modern Spiritualism, Vol. I, p. 158
Dr Gilbert Murray [Part
such as the Foxes, Florence Cook and even the great D. D. Home himself
would, like Mme Blavatsky, have had more interrupted careers.
Certainly a disproportionate number of mediums and thaumaturges
and founders of new religions were American. Not many European
countries can produce figures like Joseph Smith or Brigham Young, the
founders of Mormonism, or Mrs Eddy, the founder of Christian Science,
or even Dr Buchman, not to speak of Amy Macpherson and hundreds of
persons of equally vulnerable pretensions. One popular preacher in
Chicago who used to send me literature discovered that he was the prophet
Elijah reincarnate, and in order to convince possible doubters, took to
wearing large wings. One could quote such extravagances by the dozen.
But one strange development which could not, I think, have occurred
except in America was the history of the New Motor which was to save
mankind. A man with an enthusiastic faith in machinery, though no
great knowledge of its working, felt it to be obvious that Salvation, like
everything else, could be much more effectively produced by machine
power than by human labour. Mesmeric, or as we should say hypnotic,
influences were then called " animal magnetism ", and, since the earth
was a great magnet, there was obviously a tremendous store of mesmeric
force there ready to be tapped. By the guidance of a series of dreams
this man succeeded in building a motor which was to concentrate in itself
the magnetic force of the earth and so manufacture Salvation on a world-
wide scale. With the help of subscriptions it was made and set up, but
somehow would not work. Various expedients were tried. The Faithful
gathered round it in prayer, but in vain. Presently a leading spiritualist
was called in to advise. He decided that the dreams were genuine and
came from the spirit world ; but that any engineer would see that the
machine could not move without breaking itself, and perhaps the spirits
had wished to try or merely to tease the inventor. Meantime, however, a
woman in the south, several hundred miles away, had it revealed to her
that what the machine wanted was a mother, and that she was called upon
to assume that sublime office. She came to see the inventor, who reports
with obvious good faith : "I did not quite understand what she wanted,
but I gave her the key of the shed." But even when mothered it would
not move. At last someone suggested that it was in much too high a
position. It was not near enough to the magnetic centre of the earth. So
some hundred or so of the Faithful harnessed themselves to it and dragged
it over miles of farmland to the bottom of a river valley. There, no doubt,
it might have performed better, but the ignorant farmers of the neigh-
bourhood broke it up and threw it into the river. The story is told in
detail in Mr Podmore's book. The New Motor. Fashions change, but the
interest in the supernormal continues. A book published in 1946 reports
that there were then twenty-five thousand practising astrologers in the
United States.
We must not forget the English newspapers which employ a regular
astrologer, nor yet the temporary vogue among more intellectual circles
of Mme Blavatsky and her brand of theosophists. My point is to illus-
trate the great mass of utterly unacceptable material which lay before the
scientists of the mid-nineteenth century. First there was a vast respect-
able tradition of miracles and wonders, much of it supported by religious
i8i] Presidential Address 159
doctrine ;
next, a large but indefinite remnant of primitive superstition
among the uneducated ;
thirdly, the constantly recurring interest, I had
almost said the craving, among educated and uneducated alike, to dis-
cover, or hope to have discovered, some certainty behind the veil. It is
also worth remembering that, overwhelmingly strong as the tradition is of
the existence of prophets and shamans with superhuman powers, it is
always accompanied by a suspicion of possible fraud or false pretensions.
And the same suspicion accompanies the modern evidence. Mrs Salter
records that in her childhood she saw something of the famous medium
Eusapia Palladino, and though she did not attend any of the actual
seances, remembers that in unprofessional moments Eusapia cheated at
every game she played.
We can understand the indignant phrase of my old colleague Lord
Kelvin, that all the phenomena were " half fraud and half bad observa-
tion ", as well as the wiser conclusion of Professor Sidgwick that, in the
face of such a bewildering mass of remarkable and ill-attested phenomena,
it was " a sheer scandal " that they should be left with no serious attempt
to find out what parts of them, if any, were true. That, of course, was the
purpose with which this Society was founded, and the quest on which it
has been engaged for over seventy years.
What have we actually discovered? It is hard to say. Hypnosis is now
accepted as a vera causa in medical science. Much akin to hypnosis are
various forms of psychotherapy recognised and practised in hospitals.
Going a step further, I think we are bound to admit the fact of actual
faith-healing. The evidence from Lourdes and other Christian shrines
is very strong, and is confirmed by similar or even more abundant evidence
from Hindu shrines ; nor should we forget the successes of Christian
Science. The actual limits of faith-healing must be left for medical
science to determine. The fact of immediate relief is certain ;
wounded
men in great pain calling for morphia have fallen peacefully asleep on
receiving an injection of pure water. Continuous relief in chronic cases
seems certain, and by the relief of anxiety and a consequent lessening of
the flow of blood to the affected part, has sometimes been hard to dis-
tinguish from actual cure. I have known one case of this in my own
family. We need not therefore be quite as puzzled as the seventeenth
century Dean of Wells in Aubrey's Miscellanies^ who writes :
" the curing
of the King's evil by the touch of the King doeth puzzle my philosophic ;
for, whether they were of the house of York or of Lancaster, it did."
Similarly, when Freud released many patients from dangerous repressions
by getting them to remember some forgotten incident of their childhood,
in some cases it turned out that the incident had never really taken place.
It was just imaginary. But the cure worked. Then, again, every anthro-
pologist will remind us that Faith can kill as well as cure ; there are well-
proven cases from New Zealand and the Pacific Islands of people who
have died because they believed they had been touched by a magician or
highly tabu chief. My brother in Papua saw a man give another a handful
of pebbles. " What are these? " said the man. " They are sent specially
to you by so-and-so," was the answer, mentioning the name of a well-
known sorcerer. " Oh, then I am done for," said the victim, and died
that night.
i6o Dr Gilbert Murray [Part
Of all the problems that faced the S.P.R. on its foundation, the first
and greatest, I suppose, was the problem so confidently answered by the
Spiritualists : do we in some sense survive our bodily death, and is there
communication between the living and the spirits of the dead? The sub-
ject is too large and important to be treated in passing. We may note
Mrs Sidgwick's conclusion, reached after considerable study, that the
evidence of survival did not amount to proof, but was enough to justify
personal belief.
Members of the Society will remember the two attempts that were
made to obtain a wide Census of Hallucinations : it came out in both
that roughly ten to eleven per cent, of those questioned had had hallucina-
tions, and of the hallucinations about ten per cent, appeared to be veridical.
A striking attempt was made by Mr Podmore to show that all such
phantasms were phantasms of the living, not of the dead. This would
apply to one striking case of which I had some knowledge, and which is
in one point very remarkable. The phantasm of an intimate friend of
mine appeared early one morning on September 3rd or 4th 1898, to a
lady he knew in London. She felt, as usual in such cases, no particular
surprise, and reported that he was smiling and said, " I am going on on the
nth." It was just after the Battle of Omdurman. My friend survived
the battle, but was killed the day after. The phrase " on the nth " had
no ascertainable meaning ; what he really did was to "go on with the
nth ", that is, the nth Lancers, a regiment to which he did not belong.
Must he not really have said, " I am going on ivitli the nth ", and been
mis-heard? If so, it would seem to follow that the phantom was not
merely a creation of the percipient's mind, but was carrying a real message.
It is, of course, extremely difficult in many cases like these to prove either
a positive or a negative. But my own impression is that most of the
commonly reported wonders, both traditional and new-fangled, have so
often been proved to be either misreported or misobserved or sometimes
simply fraudulent, that they must be regarded, to say the least of it, with
extreme suspicion ; I would include in this category spirit photographs,
haunted houses, extensions of the human body and the great majority of
poltergeists.
A new standard of strictly scientific observation of these supernormal
phenomena is evidently a great desideratum. And for one class of them
such a standard has been successfully set by Dr Soal in his statistically con-
trolled experiments with Mr Shackleton and Mrs Gloria Stewart, and on a
greater and more elaborate scale by Prof. Rhine and his staff at the Duke
University, North Carolina, where there is a special Institute of Para-
psychology with fifteen rooms and a staff of six to eight whole-time para-
psychologists.^ I cannot criticise the work of the Institute, except to say
that the good faith of the workers seems undoubted, and the accuracy of
the methods well attested, yet the statistical results reported are—to me
at least—quite incredible. In the field of Precognition especially there
are parts as to which I find myself belonging to the class described by
Dr Soal as " hopelessly prejudiced by some outmoded philosophy which
they probably imbibed in their youth and which they are too old to
abandon ". I have always held, in accord with all my scientific friends,
^ See the description by Dr West in the Journal, XXXV, Pt. 656, Jan.-Feb. 1950.
i8i] . Presidential Address i6i
and with that admittedly dangerous guide, Common Sense, that the
cause which produces an effect must come before the effect ; the cause
precedes, the effect follows. I know, of course, that Time is called a
Fourth Dimension ; and I fully recognise that the exact placing of any
event requires three dimensions in space and one in time. But surely
there is nothing magical in that. It is not the sort of fourth dimension
which would enable us, for instance, to see and touch the inside of a solid. I
quite see that our whole conception of events in the universe must be con-
ditioned by the limitations imposed on our minds by our bodily structure ;
that the whole world would be exceedingly different to us if we could really
" know, hear and say
What this tumultuous body now denies,
Feel, who have put our groping hands away.
And see, no longer blinded by our eyes."
What repels me is the supposition that sometimes, some few of these
limited minds should, for no ascertainable reason, completely overcome
the limitations of human reason in one small point, while leaving all
others unchanged. If I go with Alice into a Looking-glass world I shall
expect to find that left is right, that people cry because they are going to
be hurt, and pick themselves up because they are going to fall down. But
I should at least expect some consistency. I look for some other explana-
tion. I may add that I have read Mr Dunne's book twice in the hope of
being convinced, but have not been. I think that the reasoners who do
magic with a fourth dimension are like those who draw conclusions about
the real world from the use of surds in mathematical formulae. I am, of
course, ready to accept mathematical calculations which make use of the
square root of - i, or the convention that A to the power of o equals
unity, but I do not believe that the convention is more than a convention
or that I shall ever meet the square root of - i in real life. Consequently
I feel enormous difficulty in accepting some of the statistical phenomena
of precognition which, I confess, I am unable to explain otherwise. My
old-fashioned mind notes with much comfort that Dr Soal himself feels
doubts about precognition by pure clairvoyance with no help from tele-
pathy.
What we are told is that in Prof. Rhine's experiments the percipient,
while trying to guess the card that is dealt, happens, to a significant degree
of frequency, to hit by mistake not that card but another card which has
not been dealt, but is going to be dealt a few seconds later, which he is
not trying to guess, and which is at the time not known to the dealer or
any other human being. It is possibly made a little more plausible when
we find that the guesses which do not hit their real mark are chiefly apt
to hit the card next before or next after. This seems like normal shooting,
a few shots hitting the bull, but more going just to the right or just to the
left, but it would still involve some, to me, incredible hypotheses. I look
hopefully towards the metaphysicians, such as Professors Broad and
Price, to reveal some explanation which does not involve one of two
incredible hypotheses : one that a man's naming of a card in an erroneous
guess at another card should make a card of the sort named in another
room make its way unobserved out of a pack and get itself dealt ; the
other, that the dealing of a card at a later time should cause a right guess
l62 Dr Gilbert Murray [Part
to have been made some time earlier. To Dr Soal it would make all the
difference if at the later time the dealer should see the card ; then it would
at least not be the dead material card itself that caused the guess to have
been made, it would be the thought which the dealer did not have at the
time but was presently going to have which had influenced the mind of
the guesser. Both views accept the conclusion which I find inacceptable,
that an effect can precede its cause. I cannot feel much comforted by the
explanation that the difference in time is only a matter of seconds and
might be covered by that enduring moment which we commonly call
" now " or " the present ". However, I know I may be wrong.
I feel on different grounds a similar incredulity about Dr Rhine's
startling cases of telekinesis. Considering the vast experience of the
human race in tossing dice and coins and the extreme interest which
millions of gamblers have taken for hundreds of years in the way they
fall, if human thought or will could really compel a die or a coin to fall
in the position the agent wishes, I think we should have heard much more
about it by now. Here, again, I note with relief that Dr Soal, too, is
sceptical about telekinesis, and " sees no sign of a genuine physical medium
on the horizon ".
As to telepathy, however, I cannot maintain this healthy scepticism.
There are three numbers of the Proceedings which would confound me if
I did. They contain accounts and criticisms of my own experiences as a
percipient ;
my Presidential Address in 19 15, Mrs Verrall's " Report of
a series of experiments in Guessing " (1916), and Mrs Sidgwick's " Report
on Further Experiments in Thought Transference " in 1924. I have also
several bundles of records of later sessions, though of late years, owing
partly to the complete dispersal of my children and the rest of our old
group, I have given up the experiments.
Let me say at once that my experiments belong to the pre-statistical
stage of psychical research, when the experiments were treated almost as
a parlour game. Still I do not see how there can have been any significant
failure of control ; nor did Mrs Verrall or Mrs Sidgwick. The conditions
which suited me best were in many ways much the same as those which
professional mediums have sometimes insisted upon. This is suspicious,
yet fraud, I think, is out of the question ; however slippery the behaviour
of my sub-conscious, too many respectable people would have had to be
its accomplices. I liked the general atmosphere to be friendly and familiar ;
any feeling of ill-temper or hostility was apt to spoil an experiment. Noises
or interruption had a bad effect. One question that arose was the degree
to which the telepathy made use of real sights, sounds, smells, memories,
to reach its goal. The general conclusion was curious. It seemed that I,
or my sub-conscious, showed some anxiety to explain away the telepathy
by seizing upon some such excuse. It said it had guessed Savonarola
making the women burn their precious possessions because it smelt a
coal which had fallen out of the fire ; that it had guessed Sir A. Zimmern
riding on a beach in Greece because it said it had heard a horse on the
road—when the rest of the company heard no horse. Memories, again,
sometimes helped it, but more often hindered it in its search. At one
time, indeed, I was inclined to attribute the whole thing to subconscious
auditory hyperaesthesia. I got almost no successes if the subject was not
i8i] Presidential Address 163
spoken, but only written down. Two or three successes and at least one
error could be explained by my having heard or mis-heard a proper name,
e.g. by confusing Judge Davies and the prophet David. But, apart from
other difficulties in this hypothesis, there were some clear cases where I
got a point or even a whole subject which had only been thought and not
spoken.
Of course, the personal impression of the percipient himself is by no
means conclusive evidence, but I do feel there is one almost universal
quality in these guesses of mine which does suit telepathy and does not
suit any other explanation. They always begin with a vague emotional
quality or atmosphere :
" This is horrible, this is grotesque, this is full of
anxiety " ; or rarely, " This is something delightful " ; or sometimes,
" This is out of a book," " this is a Russian novel ", or the like. That seems
like a direct impression of some human mind. Even in the failures this
feeling of atmosphere often gets through. That is, it was not so much
an act of cognition, or a piece of information that was transferred to me,
but rather a feeling or an emotion ; and it is notable that I never had any
success in guessing mere cards or numbers, or any subject that was not
in some way interesting or amusing.
Let us consider what w-e mean by telepathy. I believe most of us in
this Society are inclined to agree with Bergson that it is probably a common
unnoticed phenom.enon in ordinary life, especially between intimates. We
all know how often two friends get the same thought at the same moment.
Tolstoy, the most acute of observers, speaks of " the instinctive feeling
with which one human being guesses another's thoughts, and which
serves as the guiding thread of conversation." ^ Most teachers will agree
that one of the marks of a good teacher is the degree of telepathy he can
stir in his pupils. The same thought explains why a lecture or course of
lectures, if good, can be more effective than the reading of a textbook,
though the textbook almost always contains more information. And
what about the impression people receive from the shared enjoyment of
drama, poetry, music, or even, I think, some of the more imaginative
branches of philosophy? Is there not some telepathy, some shared sensiti-
vity, at work—not very different from that which a dog feels when he shares
the trouble or anxiety of his master.? - And shall I be wrong in suggesting
that it is just in these cases that our main instrument, language, rather
fails us and, like the dog, we have to appeal to something less perfectly
articulate }
The point will be clearer if I take some typical examples of my own
experiences, both successful and unsuccessful. I choose them from the
unpublished bundles of which I spoke, which are later than Mrs Sidg-
wick's collection.
The method w-as always the same. I was sent out of the drawing-room
either to the dining-room or to the end of the hall, the door or doors, of
course, being shut. The others remained in the drawing-room : someone
chose a subject, which was hastily written down, word for word. Then
^ Childhood ajid Youth, p. 141. In another place he says of Nekhludoff that,
" when a chord was struck in his mind, a chord in mine vibrated ".
This sympathy is not, I think, entirely explained by the excitation of the man's
adrenalin glands which is smelt by the dog : the smell of adrenalin seems generally
to irritate or annoy a dog.
164 Dr Gilbert Murray [Part
I was called in, and my words written down. I may add that, out of the
first 505 cases, Mrs Verrall estimated the percentage as : Success, 33 per
cent. ; Partial Success, 27-9 per cent. ;
Failure, 39 per cent. But it may
be remarked that as evidence for the presence of some degree of telepathy
most of the partial successes are quite as convincing as the complete
successes : this would produce something like 60 per cent, evidential
and 40 per cent, non-evidential.
First, two perfectly ordinary cases, where the emotional atmosphere is
obvious and strong, and then is developed into something more definite.
October 26 1924 (?).
My wife gave a subject :
M.H.M. " This is not a nice thing. What Nansen was describing
the other day of the church yard at Buzuluk, where there lay the great
pile of corpses, numbers of children who had fallen dead in the night."
I was summoned, and said :
G.M. " This is perfectly horrible. It's the Russian famine. It
is the masses and masses of bodies carted up every night in the Church
yard at ... " (The scribe did not catch the name.)
M.H.M. " Any particular bodies?
"
G.M. " Oh yes, children. I associate it with Nansen's lecture here."
Here came memory in as a help. The subject was an incident that I
remembered. In the next it was an obstacle : that is, a remembered in-
cident thrust itself in and had to be rejected before I could get the real
subject. I should explain that my mother had a story that when she was
at a school in France, she had been made to wear a placard labelled
mipie .
November 24 1929.
MRS DAViES. " Jane Eyre at school standing on a stool, being called a
liar by Mr Brocklehurst. The school spread out below her and the
Brocklehurst family '
a mass of shot purple silk pelisses and orange
feathers '."
G.M. "... (I think of) my mother being at her French school,
being labelled '
itnpie '.
. . . I reject that. But a sense of obloquy.
Girl standing up on a form in a school, and the school there, and
people coming in, and she is being held up to obloquy in some way or
other. —A thing in a book certainly. I think they are calling her a liar.
I get an impression of the one girl standing up and a group of people
or a family coming in and denouncing her. I think it's English."
Question. " Colour of the people's dresses?
"
G.M. " I can't get the colour of the people's dresses."
I take another with a very marked but extremely difl:erent atmosphere.
January 22 1928.
STEPHEN MURRAY. " George Rickey and me riding the motor-bike
past the inhabitants of Moulsford Lunatic Asylum, and one cheery-
looking man with gold spectacles on his forehead barking furiously at
us, like a dog."
i8i] Presidential Address 165
G.M. " A curiously confused and ridiculous scene. You and some-
one on a motor bicycle, and a scene of great confusion ; ... perhaps
the bicycle is broken down. But there is a confused rabble and, I know
it sounds ridiculous, but someone on all-fours barking like a dog."
(Then after a little encouragement) " Are they lunatics by any chance.?
"
Then two where the atmosphere is fainter and more subtle. The first
came on a bad evening after two or three failures, and I was inclined to
give up.
MY DAUGHTER ROSALIND. " I think of dancing with the Head of the
Dutch Foreign Office at a cafe chautant at the Hague."
G.M. " A faint impression of your journey abroad. I should say
something official ; sort of official soiree or dancing or something. Feel
as if it was in Holland."
The second occured on May 14 1927.
R.M. " I think of walking in the Park at Belgrade and meeting the
English governess."
G.M. " Fm getting a different feeling. It's somebody who is in
rather a state of mind. I should think escaped from Russia. You are
meeting her in some curious country. Wait a bit! It's not anyone at
Robert College or Constantinople College. It's some queer country
where you seem to be alone, and you are meeting some sort of English-
woman who has been driven out of Russia, and hates the place where
she is. . . . Oh yes. I do remember. It's when you went out to Con-
stantinople by the express alone, and met the English governess in the
Park."
The history and " state of mind " of the English governess was correct,
but had not been mentioned. I had some faint memory of the incident.
The " queer country " was Serbia.
Next I will take two cases where I received a feeling or thought that
had not been spoken, and was not in my memory at all.
November 17 1924.
R.M. " A scene in a book by Aksakoff, where the children are being
taken to their grandparents, and the little boy sees his mother kneeling
beside the sofa where his father is lying, lamenting at having to leave
them."
G.M. " I should say this was Russian. I think it's a book I haven't
read. Somebody's remembrance of childhood or something. A family
travelling, the children, father and mother. I should think they are
going across the Volga. I don't think I can get it more accurately. The
children are watching their parents or seeing something about their
parents. ... I should think Aksakoff. They are going to see their
grandmother."
Note. They did just afterwards have to cross the Volga, and Rosa-
lind said she had been thinking of that, though she did not mention it.
i66 Dr Gilbert Murray [Part
Much more curious is the next, though at first sight it is a mere failure.
May 15 1927.
EDITH WEBSTER. " I think of the Castahan spring at Delphi and how
we drank the water there."
G.M. I don't think I shall get it. But I've got a slight feeling of
atmosphere, as if there were something terrible going to happen ; as if
it were the night before something ... an atmosphere of suspense."
Note. R.M. commented : "I had been thinking of saying goodbye
to someone who was going (to the war) to be killed, Hugo? Rupert?
I got the feeling of '
This is the end '."
R.M. had not spoken. She had evidently intended or expected to give
the next subject, but E.W. was asked instead.
I add another failure which is, I think, equally significant.
November 24 1929.
MARGARET DAViES. " Medici chapcl and tombs : sudden chill : abso-
lute stillness. Marble figures who seem to have been there all night."
G.M. " I wonder if this is right . . . I've got a feeling of a scene in
my Nefrekepta, where the man goes in, passage after passage, to the
inner chamber where Nefrekepta is lying dead with the shadows of his
wife and child sitting beside him . . . but I think it's Indian."
(My poem was translated from an Egyptian story ; I suppose I felt
the subject was not Egyptian.)
Sometimes the subject was a bit of poetry : I was then apt to answer at
once without any groping or hesitation.
January 22 1928.
MARGARET COLE. " The man in Browning who is dying and sees the
row of bottles at the bed, and it reminds him of where he met his girl
when he was young."
G.M. (Instantly on entrance.) .
" How sad and mad and bad it was,
But oh, how it was sweet."
JOHN ALLEN. " I think of the priest walking by the shore of the sea
after he had been to Agamemnon and been refused."
G.M. Bfj 8' aKewv vapa 9lva TroXvrf)Xoia^oLo OaXaaarjS
[Iliad, I. 34.]
Now, granted that this curious sensitivity which we call telepathy
exists, how shall we best analyse or describe it? In the first place, as far
as my own experience goes, it does not quite feel like cognition or detec-
tion ; it is more like the original sense of the word " sympathy ",
aviMTTadeta the sharing of a feeling, or " co-sensitivity ". I seem to be pass-
ive, and feel in a faint shadowy way the feeling or state of mind of someone
else. Tolstoy's metaphor of the chord which vibrates when another chord
is struck seems to express it.
i8i] Presidential Address 167
If we follow the general lines suggested by Bergson we may suppose
an original store, so to speak, of vague undifferentiated sensitivity belong-
ing to all gregarious creatures, which is then " canalised " into particular
clearer and more efficient forms as the creature develops definite sense
organs. These senses again become keener and more effective as they
are needed and used, but fade away if they are not used, while some
remnant of the original weak uncanalised sensitivity is still there to be
drawn upon.
I have tried to get some guidance from books on the intelligence of
animals. But the books are unfortunately all written by human beings,
who keep testing their examinees by the intelligence tests to which they
themselves are accustomed—reasoning, inference, speed in learning and
the like. No wonder the poor victims cut rather a miserable figure. I
wonder what sort of show we should make if dogs tested us for our powers
of finding our way or following a trail, or if spiders criticised our power of
symmetrical web-weaving. Mr Romanes, for example, told his dog, a
setter, to follow him. He then set off in Indian file, with eleven men
following his footsteps, his gamekeeper, a special friend of the dog, com-
ing last. After two hundred yards, he turned off to the right with five
men, the other six going to the left. The dog was then let loose, and, by
smell or otherwise, made out his master's track with eleven other foot-
prints over it. Among many much stronger sense impressions it dis-
cerned unfailingly the one that it needed, that it craved. We civilised
white men are hardly at all dependent on our sense of smell or our power
of following a trail, and are consequently very helpless in such matters.
The Australian blacks, however, are almost as clever as dogs. " The
Arunta ", I read, " have extraordinary aptitudes for all that pertains to
the quest of food. Their skill in following a trail is wonderful. Not only
does a black know the tracks of all animals and birds, but when he has
examined a burrow he can say at once from the direction of the latest
tracks, or even by smelling the earth at the entrance of the burrow,
whether the animal is at home or not. He will also know the footprints of
all his acquaintance." ^
Take again the sense of direction. A bat can find its way in the dark,
flying fast this way and that among obstacles without hitting them. One
bat at least still found its way when some scientific inquirer put out its
eyes. Good authorities, such as Bethe and Fabre, consider that a " special
sense of direction, not dependent on sight ", exists in bees and wasps.^
We all know how a cat or dog taken a hundred miles away in a train often
finds its way back to the home it has left. There must surely be some
element of the same faculty in homing pigeons. That power has fallen
into disuse with civilised man. But Lapps, Finns, Eskimo and Red
Indians seem to have it. I have read of a Lapp setting forth confidently
over a trackless and treeless country covered with snow, to meet another
Lapp who was coming to see him at a spot about 150 miles off. He knew
exactly the direction in which to go, and was sure of keeping it. Even
more surprising is a record quoted by Galton from the Journal of Captain
^ Sommerfelt, La Langue et la Societe, p. 80 ; based on Spencer and Giller, and
Strehlow.
^ Washburn, The Animal Mind, p. 26
i68 Dr Gilbert Murray [Part
Hall, published in 1879 by the U.S. Government. An Eskimo who had
been traveUing for several months, covering a distance of more than 11 00
miles, was asked to draw a map to show where he had been ; he drew a
map of his journey stage by stage, which is described as rather more
exact than the Admiralty Chart of 1870.'^ There are probably here also
a few special sensitives among us ; but on the whole the faculty has been
lost by disuse. In hearing, again, the animals that are habitually hunted
by beasts of prey have generally developed great acuteness of hearing, at
least for the sounds that may mean danger. So have the Red Indians,
who in the midst of much irrelevant noise from wind and water, will
instantly detect the crack of a small twig that may mean an enemy's foot-
step. One may wonder why many small animals—but not as a rule large
ones—can hear the cries of a bat and other sounds which are too high for
the human ear. Galton tells us how he once walked out in London with
an instrument producing strong super-auditory sounds. No one took
any notice except cats and small dogs, who became highly excited. Some
creatures, again, are sensitive to ultra-violet lights which the human eye
cannot see ; and some low forms of life without eyes are nevertheless
affected by light, and seem to have a vague uncanalised sensitiveness in
their bodies, to such things as magnetic currents and balance. This is
not, of course, telepathy, but it seems to show the reality of an undif-
ferentiated sensitivity capable of taking different forms.
And I must say it is very difficult not to see telepathy in the action of
flocks of birds and of many gregarious animals. We have all seen a flock
of rooks or of field fares start suddenly and simultaneously in flight.
There is a similar collective and sudden movement in migrations, though
no doubt there are external reasons of date or of weather which have con-
tributed to the joint decisions. There is a wonderful description by
Kropotkin of a Siberian lake, crowds of ducks on the water and big birds
of prey watching hungrily all round, but never daring to touch the flock
because it all defends itself as one unit. Stampedes of cattle, buffaloes,
zebras, and other gregarious animals seem to be the result of a sudden
emotion sweeping through the herd, not of detailed individual obedience
to an order or imitation of a leader. A panic in a human army seems to
be much the same, an inrush of undefined and unexplained terror com-
municating itself telepathically from man to man. And surely the so-
called language of animals is just this contagious emotion. When a dog
invites another dog to come off after rabbits, when a bee by means of its
curious dance urges another bee to fly oft" for honey in a particular direc-
tion, when an ant by a well-known movement of its antennae explains
that its load is too heavy and that it needs help, we cannot suppose that
there is any mention of rabbits or honey or loads ; a cry of emotion, an
expression of feeling in a particular situation is enough. The feeling is
infectious and is shared. This faculty is needed by the animals just
because they have no language proper ;
man, possessing that vastly
superior means of exact communication, has not the same urgent need
for this faculty, but seems to share in it to some extent.
These are only conjectures, and the conjectures of one who has little
claim to any special knowledge of psychology or philosophy, or any
^ Galton, op. cit., p. 72.
i8i] Presidential Address 169
knowledge at all of zoology. They represent merely an attempt to find a
place in the coherent world that we know for these strange powers and
qualities of the human mind. The points on which I speak with some
conviction are, first, that telepathic communication does take place, and
secondly that as far as my own experience goes it seems to me to be a
communication of feeling rather than of cognition, though the cognition may
follow as the feeling is interpreted. To these I add the conjecture that
our ordinary everyday telepathy may be a faded and greatly intellectualised
form of a sensitivity which exists much more simply and widely among
many birds and gregarious animals and primitive races of men.
But there may be more than that in it. The differences between the
human and non-human are very great. Our whole range of sensitivity
has been so widely increased by our possession of such tools as hands and
language. We cannot see like a hawk or track like a dog or hear like a
hunted deer ; but we can see a Rembrandt picture and feel the thrill of a
Beethoven sonata or a great poem. And surely it is noteworthy that just
here our sensitivity passes beyond the realm of mere observation into that
of feeling ;
beyond the facts that you observe there is the sense of other
things, not fully known, which have value and importance. I have already
noticed that our faculty of telepathy, such as it is, seems to operate best
in just those spheres where our normal instrument, language, either fails
or works with difficulty. It is certain, I suppose, that there still are more
things in heaven and earth than are at present mastered by science. And
Bergson has reminded us that millions of men have lived for thousands
of years in a world vibrating with electricity, without ever suspecting
that there was such a thing. Are we not probably now in the presence
and under the influence of unknown forces, forces concerned with deeper
or more remote values or beauties or loyalties, which are beyond the
range of our exact knowledge and power of definition, but by no means
beyond the reach of an undefined but strong and even passionate feeling :
" This is what I value," " This is what I love," " This is what I must obey ";
or negatively, " This is what I reject." I suspect that what we call
genius is a special sensitiveness in this region of art, poetry, thought and
the like : a sensitiveness which according to many critics is apt to be
deadened and disregarded by our all-absorbing material civilisation, and
if so, is disregarded at our peril. It is in that region that our great tool,
language, fails us and we have most highly developed our ancient pre-
linguistic or supra-linguistic sympathy. If this is so, it may well be that
William James was right in his forecast that the work of this Society may
ultimately render great service to the religious gropings of the human
mind.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1952
President
Gilbert Murray, O.M., LL.D., Litt.D., F.B.A.
Vice-Presidents
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Gilbert Murray,
Litt.D., F.B.A.
O.M., LL.D.,
Council
Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D.,
F.B.A.
Professor E. R. Dodds, D.Litt.,
F.B.A.
G. W. FisK
Mrs Oli\tr Gatty
The Hon. Mrs C. H. Gay
Mrs K. M. Goldney, M.B.E.
Professor A. C. Hardy, F.R.S.
Mrs Frank Heywood
Lord Charles Hope
Miss Ina Jephson
G. W. Lambert, C.B.
J. Fraser Nicol
Edward Osborn
Denys Parsons, M.Sc.
Professor Henry Habberley
Price, F.B.A.
W. H. Salter
Mrs W. H. Salter
K. E. Shelley, Q.C.
S. G. SoAL, D.Sc.
Professor F. J. M. Stratton,
F.R.S.
Admiral The Hon. A. C. Strutt,
R.N.
The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas
Robert H. Thouless, Ph.D.
G. N. M. Tyrrell
D. J. West, M.B., D.P.M.
R. Wilson, D.Phil.
Honorary Members
Professor R. A. Fisher, F.R.S. Count Perovsky-Petrovo-
SOLOVOVO
Hon. Secretaries: W. H. Salter, Denys Parsons
Hon. Treasurer: Admiral The Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N.
Hon. Editor of '
Proceedings ': Mrs W. H. Salter
Editor of '
Journal ' : Edward Osborn
Hon. Investigation Officer {E.S.P.): Dr D. J. West
Secretary: Miss E. M. Horsell
Organizing Secretary: Mrs K. M. Goldney, M.B.E.
H 171
172 Members and Associates [Part
LIST OF MEMBERS
October 1952
President—Dr Gilbert Murray, O.M., LL.D., Litt.D., F.B.A.
Vice-Presidents
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D., Far Outlook, Shotover Hill, Oxford.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Dr Gilbert Murray, O.M., Yatscombe, Boars Hill, Oxford.
Honorary Members
Fisher, Professor R. A., F.R.S., Whittingehame Lodge, 44 Storey's Way,
Cambridge.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, 77 Flood Street, London, S.W. 3
Corresponding Members
Mrs E. W. Allison, The Beverly, 125 East 50th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Dr T. N. E. Greville, Institute of Inter-American Affairs, Avenida Rio
Branco 251-12°, Caixa Postal 1530, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Dr G. H. Hyslop, 129 East 69th Street, New York, U.S.A.
Dr C. G. Jung, Seestrasse 228, Kusnacht, E/Zurich, Switzerland.
Count C. Klinckowstroem, Ainmillerstr. 33/IV, Munich 13, Germany.
R. Lambert, Haigst 42, Degerloch bei Stuttgart, Germany.
Professor Gardner Murphy, Ph.D., Menninger Foundation, Topeka,
Kansas, U.S.A.
Dr J. B. Rhine, Parapsychology Laboratory, Duke University, Durham,
N. Carolina, U.S.A.
Admiral A. Tanagra, M.D., Aristotelous Street 67, Athens, Greece.
Dr W. H. C. Tenhaeff, Adm. v. Genstraat 53 bis, Utrecht, Holland.
Dr R. Tischner, Icking b. Munich, Germany.
Carl Vett, c/o 13 Kongens Nytorv, Copenhagen, Denmark.
R. Warcollier, 79 Avenue de la Republique, Courbevoie, Seine, France.
Dr T. Wereide, The University, Oslo, Norway.
Professor Dr C. Winther, Tornagervej 6, Charlottenlund, Denmark.
Honorary Associates
Mrs Whately Carington, Ommen, Sennen, Cornwall.
Miss H. Carruthers, 9 King's Bench Walk, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
i8i] Members and Associates 173
Mrs L. A. Dale, American Society for Psychical Research, 880 Fifth
Avenue, New York 21, U.S.A.
Dr G. de Boni, via Malenza 2, Verona, Italy.
Dr Betty Humphrey, 21 15 Sunset Avenue, Durham, N. Carolina, U.S.A.
Rev. W. S. Irving, Oxenhall Vicarage, Newent, Glos.
Miss M. Phillimore, 16 Queensberry Place, London, S.W. 7.
Mrs Kenneth Richmond, The Orangery Cottage, Felix Hall, Kelvedon,
Essex.
Professor C. M. Sage, 33 rue de Coulmiers, Paris XlVe, France.
B. Shackleton, Sans Souci, Sir Dowry's Pass, CP., South Africa.
G. H. Spinney, Ensleigh, Crossways Road, Grayshott, nr Hindhead,
Surrey.
Dr R. H. Thouless, 2 Leys Road, Cambridge.
Miss N. Walker, Clemcroft, Soudley, Church Stretton, Shropshire.
Members and Associates
Abreu, J., Filho, Caixa Postal 5138, Rua Alferes Magalhaes 300, Sao Paulo,
Brazil.
Acheson, J. W., 34 Downshire Road, Cregagh, Belfast, N. Ireland.
Adams, Mrs M., 5A Buckingham Mansions, West End Lane, London,
N.W. 6.
Adams, P. W., 27 Park Avenue South, Northampton.
Ainger, Rev. J. A., Ousby Rectory, Penrith, Cumberland.
Alderson, T., B.Sc, 322 Burnley Road, Waterfoot, Rossendale, Lanes.
Allen, Mrs Grant, Seacroft, Beach Road, Shoreham-by-Sea, Sussex.
Allen, H. Warner, Iden House, Sotwell, Wallingford, Berks.
Allison, Mrs E. W., The Beverly, 125 East 50th Street, New York City,
U.S.A. (Corresponding Member)
Amwell, The Lord, 27 Howitt Road, Belsize Park, London, N.W. 3.
Anderson, A. J., M.Sc, Ph.D., c/o Dr West, 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i.
Anderson, Miss D. M., 12A Leith Close, London, N.W. 9.
Anderson, D. S., B.Sc, Ph.D., Braehead, East Montrose Street, Helens-
burgh, Dunbartonshire.
Anderson, Mrs H. C, 20 Hermitage Drive, Edinburgh.
Andrew, A. M., 13 Torwood Avenue, Larbert, Stirlingshire.
Andrews-Levinge, Mrs K. T., The Manor, Stoughton, nr Chichester,
Sussex.
Anspacher, Mrs L. K., Purchase, New York, U.S.A.
Arbuthnot, Miss M. E.
Arnell, R. A. S., iiA Belsize Square, London, N.W. 3.
Auden, H. A., 184 RoUeston Road, Horninglow, Burton-on-Trent.
Austen, A. W., 144 High Holborn, London, W.C. i.
Austin, Rev S., Withersfield Rectory, Suffolk.
Austin, Mrs V. M., 20 Haling Park Road, South Croydon, Surrey.
Bacon, Mrs Alban, The Malt House, Burghclere, Newbury, Berks.
Bacon, Mrs Sewell, The Grand Hotel, Eastbourne, Sussex.
Bailey, D. R. Shackleton, Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Bailhache, V. J., Constantia Lodge, Samares, Jersey, C.I.
174 Members and Associates [Part
Baines, Mrs C. C. R., Yew Tree House, Bladbean, Elham, nr Canterbury,
Kent.
Baker, Audrey Z., B.Sc, L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., 385 Maiden Road,
Worcester Park, Surrey.
Baker, C. Ashmore, The Manor House, Alphington, Exeter, Devon.
Baker, Mrs H. L. S., Carrowduff House, Ballymacurley, Co. Roscommon,
Eire.
Baker, L. R. A., 95 Clitherow Avenue, Boston Manor, London, W. 7.
Baker, Miss M., 17 Ivyday Grove, Streatham, London, S.W. 16.
Baldwin, J. A., 211 Upper Fant Road, Maidstone, Kent.
Balfour, The Countess of, Whittingehame House, Whittingehame,
Haddington.
Balfour, D., Foreign Office, London, S.W. i.
Balfour, Lady Ruth, Balbirnie, Markinch, Fife.
Ball, Dr Doris B., Willoughby, Albury Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Ball, Mrs J. H., 11 Nevill Park, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
Bannister, R. T., M.B., B.S., Trelorgan, Lidden, Penzance.
Bantock, R., M.A., The Grey Cottage, Barnt Green, nr Birmingham.
Barclay, Miss V. C, 17 The Midway, Felpham, Bognor Regis, Sussex.
Barlow, F., J. P., Drakeford, Pool Head Lane, Wood End, Tanworth-in-
Arden, nr Birmingham.
Barnaby, C. F., Harroway Villa, Penton, Andover, Hants.
Barnard, G. C, M.Sc, Southlands School, Broadstone, Dorset.
Barnes, P. R., 12 Hyde Park Place, London, W. 2.
Barrow, H., 40 Weoley Park Road, Selly Oak, Birmingham, 29.
Batcheldor, Dr K. J., 106 Chipstead Way, Woodmansterne, nr Banstead,
Surrey.
Batchelor, Mrs M. T., 90 Grove Park Road, Mottingham, Kent.
Bax, Clifford, F2 Albany, Piccadilly, London, W. i.
Beadon, Mrs W., 13 Laurence Street, Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
Beesley, L., M.A., 5 Carew Road, Northwood, Middx.
Bekassy, Hon. Mrs R., 78A Hawley Road, Cove, Farnborough, Hants.
Bell, Mrs A. H., The Old Vicarage, Cuckfield, Sussex.
Bell, Miss M., M.A., c/o Miss Wood, Box 115, Grahamstown, CP., South
Africa.
Bellamy, F., 13 James Street, Sth Hiendley, nr Barnsley, Yorks.
Bennett, J. G., Coombe Springs, Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
Bentley, W. P., 421 1 Lorraine Avenue, Dallas 5, Texas, U.S.A.
Bertrand, W. J. B., 73 Tarnworth Road, Harold Hill, Essex.
Bessemans, Professor Dr A., Kluyskens Street 21, Ghent, Belgium.
Besterman, Theodore, Les Delices, Geneva, Switzerland.
Bewley, D. K., 91 Drayton Gardens, London, S.W. 10.
Bidder, G. P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
Billaud, G., 24 Rue de Londres, Paris IXe, France.
Billingham, Miss K., 3 Albion Place, Northampton.
Billington, Dr C. M., Haileybury and Imperial Service College,
Hertford.
Binyon, Miss D. E., Newnham, Gubbins Lane, Harold Wood, Essex.
Blackwell, Lady, 15 Cowley Street, London, S.W. i.
Blaine, Mrs Emmons, loi East Erie Street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
i8i] Members and Associates 175
Blennerhassett, Mrs R., 15 Avenue Court, Draycott Avenue, London,
S.W. 3.
Blumenthal, Dr E. J., Salame House Y., Jerusalem-Talbieh, Israel.
Blundun, Mrs J., M.B., B.S., Bramble Cottage, 54 Fore Street, Abbots-
kerswell, nr Newton Abbot, Devon.
Booty, G. H., 20 The Ridgev\'ay, Finchley, London, N. 3.
Borland, Dr D. M., 41 Harley Street, London, W. i.
Borland, Mrs D. M., 41 Harley Street, London, W. i.
Bosanquet, Miss T., M.B.E., 70 Arlington House, St James's, London,
S.W. I.
Bowdler, Dr W. A., Leadon Court, Frames Hill, Ledbury, Herefordshire.
Bowen, Mrs G. H., M.B., B.S., 30 Curzon Road, Birkenhead, Cheshire.
Boxall, Miss J. E., 25 Porchester Square, London, W. 2.
Brabazon of Tara, The Rt Hon. Lord, M.C., 20 Berkeley Square, London,
W. I.
Brandstatter-Klausner, Mrs M., 144 Hayarkonstreet, Telaviv, Israel.
Brandt, R. E., 36 Fenchurch Street, London, E.C. 3.
Bray, Lt-Col E. A., Somerton Court, Somerset.
Bray, Mrs E. A., Somerton Court, Somerset.
Bredin, Mrs H. M., Barnoon, Parkgate, Wirral, Cheshire.
Brett, M. J., 18 Salisbury Road, Banstead, Surrey.
Brew^ster, B., 25 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
Bridges, Mrs C. M., M.A., M.B., Ch.B., 10 Curie Avenue, Lincoln.
Bright, S. R., 71 Portland Place, London, W. i.
Broad, Professor C. D., Litt.D., F.B.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Broch, Dr L., Mercaderes 26, Habana, Cuba.
Brooke, A. W.
Brown, Miss A. E., 7 Hounslow Avenue, Hounslow, Middx.
Brown, Mrs A. S. G., Brownlands, Sidmouth, Devon.
Brown, D. G., Revelstoke Cottage, Newton Ferrers, nr Plymouth.
Brown, D. G. Spencer, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Brown, E. R., 36 Dale View Crescent, Chingford, London, E. 4.
Brown, H. R., 161E Fulham Court, Walham Green, London, S.W. 6.
Brown, Mrs J. Hally, Craignahullie, Skelmorlie, Ayrshire.
Browne, O. H., Pinehurst, Hill Brow, Liss, Hants.
Bryan, T. S., 2 West Park Avenue, Kew Gardens, Surrey.
Buck, Miss Alice E., M.D., 46 Queen Anne Street, London, W. i.
Budgen, Mrs E. S., 21 Learmonth Gardens, Edinburgh 4.
Bulford, S., The Manor House, East End Lane, Ditchling, Sussex.
Burbidge, Mrs E. M. P., B.Sc, Ph.D., Harvard College Observatory,
Cambridge 38, Mass., U.S.A.
Burke, C. J., 41 Gloucester Place, London, W. i.
Burke, E., 5412 Bartlett Street, Pittsburgh 17, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
Bursalioglu, Bay Ziya, Izmit Lisesi Ingilizce, Ogretmeni, Izmit, Turkey.
Burton, Mrs A., Stenson, Cromer, Norfolk.
Bury, H., The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Bournemouth.
Bushell, J. C. W., 13 Stanhope Row, London, W. i.
Butler, Mrs C, 7 Prideaux Road, Eastbourne, Sussex.
Butler, J., West Street, Scotter, nr Gainsborough, Lines.
Byrom, J. W., 10 Kingsway, Altrincham, Cheshire.
176 Members and Associates [Part
Cammack, E., i Grove Court, New York 14, N.Y., U.S.A.
Campbell, C. E., 41 Hugh Street, London, S.W. i.
Campbell, J. G., B.A., M.Sc., Physics Dept, University of Melbourne,
Melbourne N. 3, Victoria, Australia.
Campbell, Rev. Canon R. J., D.D., Heatherdene, Fairwarp, nr Uckfield,
Sussex.
Campion, S. R., 22 Erridge Road, Merton Park, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 19.
Candler, H. A. W., 43 Gondar Gardens, London, N.W. 6.
Canetti, E., D.Phil., 14 Crawford Street, London, W. i.
Cannon, A., M.D., Ph.D., Laureston Mansion House, Douglas, L of M.
Canziani, Miss E., 3 Palace Green, London, W. 8.
Carington, Mrs Whately, Ommen, Sennen, Cornwall. (Hon. Associate)
Carleton-Jones, Mrs F. V. M., P.O. Box 236, George, CP., South Africa.
Carrington, H., Ph.D., 1145 Vine Street, Hollywood 38, Calif., U.S.A.
Carrithers, W. A., Jr., 463 North Second Street, Fresno 2, Calif.,
U.S.A.
Carruthers, Miss H., 9 King's Bench Walk, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
(Hon. Associate)
Carter, Rev. L. J., D.D., Carew House, St Lawrence's Hospital, Bodmin,
Cornwall.
Carver, R. L, The Lodge, Little St Anne's, Bakeham Lane, Englefield
Green, Surrey.
Caspary, A., D.L., 303 West 80th Street, New York 24, N.Y., U.S.A.
Chaffee, Mrs K. P., c/o Mrs P. Hart Dyke, Alder Holt, Dockenfield, nr
Farnham, Surrey.
Chambers, H. F., M.V.O., 7 Montpelier Place, London, S.W. 7.
Chari, C. T. K., M.A., Staff Bungalow, Madras Christian College,
Tambaram, S. India.
Cheatham, Rev. T. A., Pinehurst, North Carolina, U.S.A.
Chesters, D., 59 Ship Street, Brighton i.
Chew, Miss D. N., 55 Ormerod Road, Burnley, Lanes.
Chitty, E. E., 65 Salisbury Road, Dover, Kent.
Chitty, H., F.R.C.S., Naish House, Clapton-in-Gordano, nr Portishead,
Somerset.
Chitty, Miss P., 28 Gloucester Place Mews, London, W. i.
Clark, Mrs J. B., Overleigh House, Street, Somerset.
Clark, Miss P. M., 71 Court Lane, Dulwich, London, S.E. 21.
Clark-Lowes, D. N., 6a The Schools, Shrewsbury, Salop.
Clarke, K. E., B.A., 9 Bucks Avenue, Oxhey, Watford, Herts.
Clarke, P. R. F., Wynford, New Road, Deddington, Oxford.
Clarke, R. A., 9 Downs Bridge Road, Beckenham, Kent.
Clay, Hon. Mrs V., 11 Tite Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Clayton, Mrs H., c/o Mrs R. Whaley, Fairhaven, Nailsea, Bristol.
Clearman, J. F., 6518 So. Broadway, Whittier, Calif., U.S.A.
Cleobury, Rev. F. H., Ph.D., 39 Vesta Road, Brockley, London, S.E. 4.
Clover, A. E., 36 Churchill Avenue, Bendigo, Victoria, Australia.
Clyne, M. B., M.D., 150 Lady Margaret Road, Southall, Middx.
Cobb, H. L, Jr., Sarles Street, Mount Kisco, N.Y., U.S.A.
Cockburn, A. W., Q.C., 2 Cheync Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
i8i] Members and Associates lyy
Cocks, Dr T., Fulford House, Hawes, Yorkshire.
Cole, Lady Eleanor, Kekopey Gilgil, Kenya Colony, B.E. Africa.
Cole, J. F. Irving, 13 Ravenhill Park, Belfast, N. Ireland.
Cole, M. J., 5 Cranwich Avenue, London, N. 21.
Coleing, H., 184 Johnson Street, Maffra, Victoria, Australia.
Coleman, M. Herder, 28 Seymour Avenue, Bishopston, Bristol 7.
Collett, C. B., Melrose, 32 The Downs, Wimbledon, London, S.W. 20.
Collins, G. E., Bridge End Lane, Prestbury, nr Macclesfield, Cheshire.
Collins, S. B., Birch Interval Farm, Wonalancet, New Hampshire, U.S.A.
Cooke, Miss M., B.A., 36 Lavington Road, London, W. 13.
Cooke, P. A., 160 Tamworth Lane, Mitcham, Surrey.
Coombe-Tennant, Capt A. H. S., M.C., 18 Cottesmore Gardens, London,
W. 8.
Cooper, A. S., Thatchings, Weldens Lane, Chalfont St Peter, Bucks.
Cornell, A. D., B.A., Brookside, Histon, Cambs.
Cornish, H. V., Barnfield, Cleeve Hill, Cheltenham, Glos.
Cornish, J. E., 12 Rue Salt, Mustafa Pasha, Alexandria, Egypt.
Corns, Mrs A. C, 16 River Way, Christchurch, Hants.
Corsellis, J. A. N., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 9 Avenue Crescent, Nevendon
Road, Wickford, Essex.
Cotton, Mrs C, 19 Shooters Hill Road, Blackheath, London, S.E. 3.
Coutts, C, 40 Garden Place, Aberdeen.
Cowan, Mrs E. I., 15 West Parade, Lincoln.
Cox, Mrs G. H., 153 Park Avenue, Saranac Lake, N.Y., U.S.A.
Cox, G. W., Caversham, 38 Main Road, Fish Hoek, CP., South Africa.
Cranston, J. A., D.Sc, Craigdene, Eaglesham Road, Clarkston, Glasgow.
Crawford, M. R., National Transitads, 36 East Fourth Street, Cincinnati,
Ohio, U.S.A.
Creswell, H. B., 7 Heath Mansions, Hampstead Grove, London, N.W. 3.
Crofts, J. W., Gordon House, Golf Lane, Whitnash, Leamington Spa.
Crookes, Miss M. W., 31 Maungawhau Road, Epsom, Auckland, New
Zealand.
Cross, Major J. K. C, Letcombe Manor, Wantage, Berks.
Crowlesmith, Rev. J., Broadclyst, 224 Hills Road, Cambridge.
Cruickshank, Mrs L. M., 31 Underdale Road, Shrewsbury, Shropshire.
Cuddon, E., M.A., Ardsoluis, Bray, Co. Wicklow, Eire.
Cullen, G., 7 Avondale Drive, Salford 6, Lanes.
Culme-Seymour, The Lady Faith, Rockingham Castle, Market Har-
borough, Northants.
Cunningham, P. S. C, 11 Lennox Gardens Mews, Chelsea, London,
S.W. I.
Cuthbert, C. D., 54 Ellesmere Avenue, St Vital, Manitoba, Canada.
Dale, Mrs L. A., American Society for Psychical Research, 880 Fifth
Avenue, New York 21, N.Y., U.S.A. (Hon. Associate)
Dalton, G. F., 14 Frankfort Park, Dundrum, Co. Dublin, Eire.
Davey, D. R., Glenholme, 210 Old Road, Parsley, nr Leeds, Yorks.
Davidovich, P., Rua Paissandu 186, Ap. 203, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Davies, A. St J., Vincent House, Pembridge Square, London, W. 2.
Davies, B., 6 South Marine Terrace, Aberystwyth, Cardiganshire.
Davies, D. R., B.A., 33 Union Street, Melksham, Wilts.
178 Members and Associates [Part
Davies, Miss E., B.A., 52 Carpenter Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham 15.
Davies, P., c/o Imperial Bank of India, 25 Old Broad Street, London,
E.G. 2.
Davy, C. B., Penny Hill, Amberley, Sussex.
Davys, Lt-Col G. I., O.B.E., c/o Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street,
London, S.W. i.
Day, Miss M. K., D.Lit., 15 Elgin Court, Elgin Avenue, London, W. 9.
Dayet, M., 7 Rue Alexandre Cabanel, Paris XV, France,
de Baughn, Mrs W. G., Red Roofs, Richmond Gardens, Canterbury, Kent,
de Boni, G., M.D., via Malenza 2, Verona, Italy. (Hon. Associate)
De L'Isle and Dudley, Dowager Lady, Calverley Hotel, Tunbridge Wells,
Kent.
de Peyer, Dr Hilda, Badgers, Charmouth, Dorset.
de Silva, L. M. D., Q.C., Park House, Albert Crescent, Colombo, Ceylon,
de Ward, T. C. H., Lyston House, East Street, Blandford, Dorset.
De Wyckoff, J., 1608 Tiger Tail Avenue, Miami, Florida, U.S.A.
Dewar, Lady, Brookhill House, Cowfold, Sussex.
Dickenson, W. N., M.A., M.B., B.Ch.(Oxon.), 1 1 Caledonia Avenue, Cross
Roads, Kingston, Jamaica, B.W.I.
Dickerson, Miss R. A., 430 East Shore Road, Great Neck, N.Y., U.S.A.
Dickson, Mrs B. W. A., Little Bridgen, Bexley, Kent.
Dillon, W. J., 32 Gilford Park, Sandymount, Dublin, Eire.
Dingwall, E. J., D.Sc, 19 Grange Court, Pinehurst, Cambridge.
Di VeroU, Dr G.
Dockerill, Miss A. D., 105 St George's Square, London, S.W. i.
Dodds, Professor E. R., D.Litt., F.B.A., Cromwell's House, Old Marston,
Oxford.
Douglas, C. K. M., O.B.E., Wood End, 104 Marshalswick Lane, St
Albans, Herts.
Dove, Cmdr J. S., O.B.E., 4 Aldeburgh Lodge, Aldeburgh, Suffolk.
Drazin, I., 41 Hodford Road, London, N.W. 11.
Drew, R. C, 17 Bolton Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
du Cros, G. L., Little Fishfolds, Forest Green, nr Ockley, Surrey.
Duddington, Dr A. E., 17 Onslow Gardens, Muswell Hill, London, N. 10.
Duddington, Mrs N. A., M.A., 19 Onslow Gardens, Muswell Hill,
London, N. 10.
Due-Petersen, J., Gl. Aabyhoj, Aabyhoj, Denmark.
Duguid, J. T., The Patch, Hill Head, Fareham, Hants.
Dumas, A., 25 Rue des Envierges, Paris XX, France.
Dundas, Miss I., 123 Gloucester Place, London, W. i.
Dunnet, F/Lt J. B., 131 Earls Court Road, London, S.W. 5.
Dupain, G. Z., Rose Bank, 158 Parramatta Road, Ashfield, New South
Wales, Australia.
Dupree, Mrs G. J., Bella Vista, South Stoke, Bath, Somerset.
Dutton, C. F., II Verulam Avenue, Purley, Surrey.
Duveen, Mrs P. S., 6 Strathearn Place, London, W. 2.
Edmonds, Mrs E., 18 The Lodge, Kensington Park Gardens, London,
W. II.
Edvi'ards, H. O., Deanery Cottage, Broomfield Park, Sunningdale, Berks.
Eisenbud, J., M.D., 630 Fillmore Street, Denver 6, Colorado, U.S.A.
i8i] Members and Associates 179
Ellis, O. C. de C, D.Sc, Wymondham College, Morley St Botolph,
Norfolk.
Enthoven, Mrs F. V., 34 Hanover House, St John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
Evans, Dr C. C, 27 Storey's Way, Cambridge.
Evans, D. R., Upperdale, Birmingham Road, Millison's Wood, Allesley,
Coventry.
Evans, J. T., 30 Hersham Road, Walton -on-Thames, Surrey.
Evelyn, C. J. A., Wotton House, Dorking, Surrey.
Fairbrother-Jacobs, K. J., 38 Graham Street, Pascoe Vale South, Mel-
bourne W. 7, Australia.
Falk, Mrs G. A., 7 Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol 8
Farrar, W. V., B.Sc, Ph.D., 75 High Street, Manchester 13.
Field, Mrs L. H., 2010 Glen Drive, Jackson, Michigan, U.S.A.
Fielding, Dr Una L., University Women's Club, 2 Audley Square,
London, W. i.
Findlay, S. H., M.A.(Oxon.), 45 Kynaston Road, Orpington, Kent.
Fischer, S., 1058 Manor Avenue, Bronx, New York, U.S.A.
Fisher, Professor R. A., F.R.S., Department of Genetics, Whittingehame
Lodge, 44 Storey's Way, Cambridge. (Hon. Member)
Fisk, Lt-Col E. K., Hyde Park Hotel, Knightsbridge, London, S.W. i.
Fisk, G. W., 6 Ditton Grange Close, Ditton Hill, Surrey.
Fletcher, Dr L, 69 Creighton Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N. lo.
Fletcher, Dr W. D., 152 Wensley Drive, Leeds 7, Yorkshire.
Flew, A. G. N., King's College, Aberdeen.
Fordham, E. W., 65 Harley House, Marylebone Road, London, N.W. i.
Forsyth, D. R. H., M.A., 128 Cleveden Road, Glasgow, W. 2.
Forwald, H. G., Grottvagen 37, Ludvika, Sweden.
Fox, Miss J., II Bisham Gardens, Highgate Village, London, N. 6.
Freeman, M. A. R., 27 Fountain House, Park Lane, London, W. i.
French, Lady Essex, 32 Sheldon Avenue, Highgate, London, N. 6.
Fry, Miss A., Orchard Hill, Brent Knoll, Highbridge, Somerset.
Gama, F., Rua Dr Jobim, 38-Eng. Novo, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Gantz, Mrs W. L., 30E Harcourt Terrace, London, S.W. 10.
Garbutt, G. F., 14 Palace Gardens, Enfield, Middx.
Garde, Dr G. W., 5 The Grove, Hammersmith, London, W. 6.
Gardner, E. K., Avalon, 41 Syke Ings, Iver, Bucks.
Gardner, G. B., 47 Ridgmount Gardens, Torrington Place, London,
W.C. I.
Garrett, Mrs Eileen J., 220 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N.Y., U.S.A.
Gartland, W\ T., B.Sc, 127 Longdon Road, Knowle, nr Birmingham.
Gascoigne, Miss B. M., Strathkinness, 383 Crewe Road, Wistaston,
Nantwich, Cheshire.
Gatty, Mrs Oliver, 2 Rawlinson Road, Oxford.
Gatty, Mrs R., Pepper Arden, Northallerton, Yorkshire.
Gay, Hon. Mrs C. H., 10 Shelley Court, Tite Street, London, S.W. 3.
Gell, P. G. H., Dept of Pathology, Hospitals Centre, Birmingham 15.
Gibbard, R. F., Colmore House, Victoria Street, Dargaville, Northland,
New Zealand.
Gibson, E. P., 1221 Philadelphia Ave S.E., Grand Rapids 6, Mich., U.S.A.
i8o Members and Associates [Part
Glasson, J. W., P.O. Endebess, Kenya Colony, B.E. Africa.
Gilbert, W., 213 Woodcote Road, Purley, Surrey.
Giles, Miss J. E., Elders, Masons Bridge Road, Earlswood, Surrey.
Gill, Mrs C. P., 120 Christchurch Avenue, Kenton, Harrow, Middx.
Gill, R., 3 Sydney House, Woodstock Road, London, W. 4.
Gilmour, W. D., B.A., 5 Dora Road, Wimbledon Park, London, S.W. 19.
Gleadow, Mrs H., 33 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
Gold, R. L., 25 Oval Road, Erdington, Birmingham 24.
Goldney, Mrs K. M., M.B.E., 154 Rivermead Court, Hurlingham,
London, S.W. 6.
Goldschmidt, Mrs V. de. Lane End, Burchetts Green, Berks.
Goldsmith, Miss M., M.A., i Granville Square, Wharton Street, London,
W.C. I.
Goodden, W., The Rayon Industry Design Centre, i Upper Grosvenor
Street, London, W. i.
Goold-Adams, Mrs R., 15 Avenue Court, Draycott Avenue, London,
S.W. 3.
Gower, Sir Robert, K.C.V.O., O.B.E., Sandown Court, Tunbridge Wells,
Kent.
Grant, L. C, Deva, Brook Road, Maghull, nr Liverpool.
Grant, L. C, M.Com., 16 Dexter Avenue, Mt Eden, Auckland S. 2,
New Zealand.
Grant, W. J., 16 Harrington Road, London, E. 11.
Grant-Suttie, Colonel H. F., 18 Glencairn Crescent, Edinburgh 12.
Gray, Capt L. N., c/o Financial Adviser, H.Q. British Troops in Austria,
B.T.A. 2.
Green, Lady, Chilston House, Pembury Road, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
Green, Dr A. J. Renton, 54 West Street, Scarborough, Yorkshire.
Greenwell, T., 74 Central Hill, Upper Norwood, London, S.E. 19.
Greenwood, The Viscountess, D.B.E., 5 Grosvenor Place, London, S.W. i.
Greenwood, H. P., M.A. (Cantab.), Whitsbury House, Fordingbridge,
Hants.
Greenwood, L. H. G., Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
Gregory, C. C. L., M.A., 82 East Hill, Colchester, Essex.
Grensted, The Rev. Canon L. W., D.Phil., 32 Charlbury Road, Oxford.
Greville, Dr T. N. E., Institute of Inter-American Affairs, Avenida Rio
Branco, 251 12°, Caixa Postal 1530, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (Corre-
sponding Member)
Griffith, Rev. M. L., Wayfarer's Cottage, Chailey, Sussex.
Griffith, Mrs W. S. A., 19 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Grimson, Miss M., 119 King Street, Cambridge.
Grinsted, H., Nevern, The Avenue, Claygate, Surrey.
Groom, W/Cdr P. R. M., R.A.F., No. i Ormonde, Priory Way, Datchet,
Bucks.
Grosjean, Rev. P., S.J., 24 Boulevard Saint-Michel, Brussels 4, Belgium.
Grottendieck, W. G., Jan de Wert Straat 30, Den Haag, Holland.
Hadfield, Dr J. A., 4 Upper Harley Street, London, N.W. i.
Haldane, Mrs Charlotte, looA Fellowes Road, London, N.W. 3.
Hale, Mrs H. W. K., 3193 Westmount Boulevard, Montreal, Canada.
Hall, A. R., 95 Woodcock Hill, Kenton, Harrow, Middx.
i8i] Members and Associates i8i
Hall, Mrs J. M. C, ioa Drayton Court, Drayton Gardens, London,
S.W. ID.
Hall, Trevor H., The Balk, Walton, nr Wakefield, Yorkshire.
Hall, W., Woodside, Sharperton, Morpeth, Northumberland.
Hallam, Miss A. R., Barnardiston Rectory, Haverhill, Suffolk.
Hamer, J. E., 67 Revelon Road, Brockley, London, S.E. 4.
Hamilton, Sir Frederick H., Russet House, Tadworth, Surrey.
Hammond, Miss W. B., 2034 S.E. sist Street, Portland, Oregon, U.S.A.
Hankey, Mrs M. W., 15A Flood Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Harding, Miss H., 57 Holland Park, London, W. 11.
Hardy, Professor A. C, F.R.S., 15 Belbroughton Road, Oxford.
Hare, A. W., M.B., Ch.B., 59 York Road, Birkdale, Lanes.
Harley-Mason, J., Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
Harmsworth, The Lady, Lime Lodge, Egham, Surrey.
Harris, Mrs W. F., Jennifer's Hotel, West Cliff Road, Bournemouth.
Harrison, V. G. W., Ph.D., Lyndhurst, Links Way, Little Bookham,
Surrey.
Hart, Dr Nancie A., 21 Wilbury Crescent, Hove 3, Sussex.
Harvey, H.E. Lady, British Embassy, Paris, France.
Harvey, Professor J. W., 6 Claremont Road, Headingley, Leeds 6,
Yorkshire.
Haslam, O. H., Cairngill, nr Dalbeattie, Kirkcudbrightshire.
Hawes, W. O., 69 Cotton Lane, Moseley, Birmingham 13.
Hay, R. M., Ramshill, Mockley Manor, Tanworth-in-Arden, Warwick-
shire.
Hayward, Mrs L. M., Churchtown, St Minver, nr Wadebridge, Cornwall.
Head, Lt-Col E. Nugent, Leixlip House, Leixlip, Co. Kildare, Eire.
Head, Mrs G., 51 South Street, London, W. i.
Heard, Gerald, 545 Spoleta Drive, Santa Monica, Calif., U.S.A.
Hearn, Miss L R., 7 Powis Square, London, W. 11.
Hellsten, Docent U. J., Askrikegatan 3, Stockholm, Sweden.
Hellstrom, Mrs B., Sveavagen 77, Stockholm, Sweden.
Hemenway, Mrs A., 67 Green Street, Milton, Mass., U.S.A.
Henderson, Miss L., 6 Westgate Grove, Canterbury, Kent.
Henry, A., 70 Ditton Hill Road, Surbiton, Surrey.
Herbert, Major C. V. C, c/o Holt & Co., Kirkland House, Whitehall,
London, S.W. i.
Herzberg, Miss L, 60 Arden Road, London, N. 3.
Hewan, T. A. D., Whins, Hook Heath Avenue, Woking, Surrey.
Hewitt, Dr E. J. C, Rosslynlee, Rosslyn Castle, Midlothian.
HeyAvood, Mrs F., 35 Chesham Street, London, S.W. i.
Hichens, Mrs W. L., North Aston Hall, Oxfordshire.
Hick, ]. H., M.A., Athol House, Fulford Road, Scarborough, Yorkshire.
Hill, Capt G. U.
Hill, H. E., ID The Oval, Garden Village, Hull, Yorkshire.
Hill, Mrs P. Rowland, Kyneton, Finham, Coventry.
Hill, R. H. K., M.A., Canister Farm, Gt Dunham, Kings Lynn,
Norfolk.
Himes, G. H., P.O. Box 472, Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S.A.
Hindson, M. T., 11 Holland Park, London, W. 11.
l82 Members and Associates [Part
Hoare, Colonel R. R., D.S.O., 24 Buckingham Palace Mansions,
Buckingham Palace Road, London, S.W. i.
Hobkirk, Mrs N. L., 99 Eaton Place, London, S.W. i.
Holding, Mrs M. E., 13 The Crescent, Dollis Hill Lane, London,
N.W. 2.
Holdsworth, H. H., 116 Manygates Lane, Sandal, Wakefield, Yorkshire.
Hollick, Capt A. J., Clewer Hill Cottage, Windsor, Berks.
Hollick, Mrs A. J., Clewer Hill Cottage, Windsor, Berks.
Hone, Mrs M. E., 122 Beaufort Street, London, S.W. 3.
Hooker, M.A., 10 Myddelton Gardens, Winchmore Hill, London, N. 21.
Hope, Lord Charles, Brackenlea, Crastock, Woking, Surrey.
Hope, Mrs O., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., St Anne's Well, Andover, Hants.
Horne, Mrs P. M. Troup, Connaught Hall, 18 Torrington Square,
London, W.C. i.
Horsell, Miss E. M., 69 Loom Lane, Radlett, Herts.
Howe, Mrs Ellic, 5 Thurloe Close, Alexander Place, London, S.W. 7.
Howe, E. Graham, M.B., B.S., D.P.M., 146 Harley Street, London,
W. I.
Howell, Miss M. G., Langthorns Cottage, Little Canfield, Dunmow,
Essex.
Howell, Mrs P., Bury Farm, Upshire, Waltham Abbey, Essex.
Howell Smith, S. G., National Liberal Club, Whitehall Place, London,
S.W. I.
Howes, N., 88 HoUyfield Road, Sutton Coldfield, Warwickshire.
Hughes, Professor G. E., M.A., Dept of Philosophy, Victoria University
College, Wellington, New Zealand.
Hull, Mrs N. K., 55 Milson Road, Cremorne, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., B.Sc, Mendip House, Headington Hill, Oxford.
Humpfner, Rev. Dr W. G.
Humphrey, Dr Betty, 21 15 Sunset Avenue, Durham, North Carolina,
U.S.A. (Hon. Associate)
Hurwitz, W. A., Ph.D., White Hall 8, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hyslop, Dr G. H., 129 East 69th Street, New York, U.S.A. (Corre-
sponding Member)
Irving, Rev. W. S., Oxenhall Vicarage, Newent, Glos. (Hon. Associate)
Irving-Bell, Dr R. J., 5A Oakfield Road, Clifton, Bristol 8.
Ivens, M. W., 26 Nevern Place, London, S.W. 5.
Jacks, Dr L. P., Far Outlook, Shotover Hill, Oxford.
Jackson, F. L., M.B., B.S., 20 Asmuns Place, Golders Green, London,
N.W. II.
Jacobsen, Mrs G., Hudson Heights, P.Q., Canada.
Jaffa, Mrs H. B., Weethley, Grassy Lane, Sevenoaks, Kent.
James, Anatole, 17 Chester Street, Edinburgh 3.
James, J. M., B.A., 49 Castelnau Mansions, Barnes, London, S.W. 13.
James, W. S., M.Sc, Rothay Bank, Grasmere, Westmorland.
Jay, Miss G. de Lancey, Aynho, Station Road, Nailsea, Bristol.
Jeffers, Miss I. G., 48 Talbot Road, London, W. 2.
Jefferson, Lady, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., D.P.M., High Bank, Didsbury,
Manchester 20.
i8i] Members and Associates 183
Jeffery, C. A. K., c/o Cable & Wireless Ltd., Electra House, Victoria
Embankment, London, W.C. 2.
Jenkins, Rev. H. O., St Martin's Vicarage, Bradley, Bilston, Staffs.
Jennings, Miss M. M., 5 Campden Hill Gardens, London, W. 8.
Jephson, Miss L, 31 Elm Tree Road, St John's Wood, London, N.W. 8.
Johannesson, Y., Reykjavik, Iceland.
Johns, E. G., Rossendale, New Road, Parley Cross, Wimborne, Dorset.
Johnson, Miss G. M., Prospect, Blanford Road, Reigate, Surrey.
Johnson, R. C, M.A., D.Sc, Queen's College, Melbourne N. 3, Australia.
Johnston, Rev. A. B., Welney Rectory, via Wisbech.
Johnston, Mrs W. B., Nixon House, Reno, Nevada, U.S.A.
Jonas, Group Capt R. C, R.A.F., O.B.E., Colville, The Avenue, Camber-
ley, Surrey.
Jones, Professor B. Melvill, Engineering Laboratory, Cambridge.
Jones, F. H., 30 High Street, Cefn-Coed, Merthyr-Tydfil, Glam.
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Jones, Lady, 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Jones, L. E., 13 Wellington Court, London, N.W. 8.
Jones, Mrs M. P. R., 10 Union Street, Eastwood, New South Wales,
Australia.
Jones, W. D., Ph.D., 708 Nelson House, Dolphin Square, London, S.W. i
Jordan, W. K., M.D., Dept of Neurology, University of Arkansas, Little
Rock, Arkansas, U.S.A.
Jung, Dr C. G., Seestrasse 228, Kusnacht, E/Zurich, Switzerland.
(Corresponding Member)
Keen, M. V., 14 Roxburgh Park, Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middx.
Keep, Mrs G. R. C, c/o Mrs Ferris, The Old Hall, East Bridgford, Notts.
Kehlmann, W. H., 2432 Ocean Avenue, Brooklyn 29, New York, U.S.A.
Kelsey, J. A., 167 Church Street, Woking, Surrey.
Kennedy, Mrs R. L., Jr., 155 East 72nd Street, New York, U.S.A.
Kenyon, F. E., B.A., Holly Bank, Currier Lane, Ashton-under-Lyne,
Lanes.
Kerr, T. H., B.Sc, 22 Birchett Road, Cove, Farnborough, Hants.
Kersley, Rev. E. H., 29 Churchill Way, Peverell, Plymouth.
Kidner, Mrs K., Weekley Rise, nr Kettering, Northants.
King, L. E. W., 44 Acacia Road, Acton, London, W. 3.
Kingston, E. M., 6 Chichester Close, Chichester Place, Brighton, Sussex.
Kingston, L. J., B.A., 25/27 Catherine Place, London, S.W. i.
Kirk-Duncan, Rev. V. G., D.Phil., 5 Brunstead Road, Bournemouth.
Kirkham, J. L., 184 Dover Road, Folkestone, Kent.
Kirkpatrick, K. C. G., B.Sc, La Boverie, Satigny, nr Geneva, Switzerland.
Klinckowstroem, Count C, Ainmillerstr. 33/IV, Munich 13, Germany.
(Corresponding Member)
Kneale, Mrs W. C, M.A., Flat 3, i Fyfield Road, Oxford.
Knight, Mrs T., B.Sc, Glaramara, Newtonpark Avenue, Blackrock, Co.
Dublin, Eire.
Knowles, Dr F. W., c/o Rev. Joseph John, Deenabandupuram, via
Sholinghur, Madras, India.
Krelinger, Mrs O., 187 Chausee de MaHnes, Antwerp, Belgium.
Krasner, H., The Haven, Selsdon Vale, South Croydon, Surrey.
Members and Associates [Part
Kruisinga, J. C. M., 372 Almelose Weg, Vriezenveen, Holland.
Lahaise, Mrs I. D., Wych House, Shirley Road, Hove 4, Sussex.
Lambert, G. W., C.B., 16 Onslow Court, Drayton Gardens, London,
S.W. 10.
Lambert, R., Haigst 42, Degerloch bei Stuttgart, Germany. (Corre-
sponding Member)
Lamon, S. B., 1521 West Fourth Street, Los Angeles 17, Calif., U.S.A.
Landau, L., 3 Shakespeare Gardens, London, N. 2.
Lane, J. W., 22 Duke Street, Cheltenham, Glos.
La Page, J., Craig Lea, 44 Bank Crest, Baildon, Yorkshire.
Lasich, W. B., Atomic Energy Research Establishment, Harwell, Berks.
Lawford, Miss E. W., 57 Holland Park Mews, London, W. 11.
Lawford, Mrs L A., Lynwood, 122 Chichester Road, Bognor Regis, Sussex.
Lawford, W., 50 Royal Parade, Eastbourne, Sussex.
Lazell, H., The Corner House, Weston Green, Thames Ditton, Surrey.
Lea, Dr P. A. W., 19 Westbourne Street Mews, Lancaster Gate, London,
W. 2.
Leadley-Brown, Miss C, M.B.E., 18 Devonshire Road, Liverpool 8.
Le Apsley, J. H. M., M.D.
Lee, R. L, M.D., 264 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Lee-Richardson, J., 132 Maiden Road, New Maiden, Surrey.
Leicester, P., M.A., c/o V. G. Dienst, Bataafsche Petroleum Mij., Carel
van Bylandtlaan 30, Den Haag, Holland.
Leek, F. J., 79 Kingswinford Road, Holly Plall, nr Dudley, Worcs.
Leggett, D. M. A., Chiltern Cottage, Epsom Road, Merrow, Guildford,
Surrey.
Lemon, C. G., Ph.D., 2658 W. 3rd Avenue, Vancouver 8, B.C., Canada.
Lemon, Mrs E., 8 Bryanston House, Dorset Street, London, W. i.
Le Mesurier, Comdr L. J., O.B.E., Candor Cottage, Westerland, Marldon,
nr Paignton, Devon.
Lenk, C, M.B., Ch.B., c/o Regina Grey Nuns Hospital, Regina, Sask.,
Canada.
Leonard, Miss M. E. C, 10 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Leslie, Sir Shane, Bart., M.A., Glaslough, Co. Monaghan, Eire.
Leslie, W. E., Westcroft, Kent Street, Sedlescombe, Sussex.
Leslie, Mrs W. E., Westcroft, Kent Street, Sedlescombe, Sussex.
Lester, Mrs M. C, Keynes Place, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
Lewis, D. J., 14 Green Street, Cumberland, Md., U.S.A.
Leybourne, W., 68 Borough Road, Middlesbrough, Yorkshire.
Librarian, Public Library, Adelaide, S. Australia.
Librarian, Adyar Library, Adyar, Madras, S. India.
Librarian, Amsterdam Free Library, Amsterdam, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Benares Hindu University, Benares, India.
Librarian, Public Libraries, Birmingham i.
Librarian, The University, Birmingham 3.
Librarian, The University, Bristol.
Librarian, Brown University Library, Providence 12, Rhode Island, U.S.A.
Librarian, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Librarian, University of Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
i8i] Members and Associates 185
Librarian, Colgate-Rochester Divinity School, Rochester 20, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Columbia University, 535 West 114th Street, New York 27,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Commonwealth Parliamentary Library, Canberra, Australia.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Selskabet for psykisk Forskning, St Kannikestrade 10, Copen-
hagen, K., Denmark.
Librarian, Duke University, Durham, N.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dutch Society for Psychical Research, Singel 421, Amsterdam,
Holland.
Librarian, University Library, Glasgow.
Librarian, Goldsmiths' Library, University of London, Senate House,
London, W.C. i.
Librarian, Hampstead Public Libraries, Finchley Road, London, N.W. 3.
Librarian, Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, LT.S.A.
Librarian, Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute, 312 Hornby Road,
Bombay, India.
Librarian, Public Library, Jersey City, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Librarian, The University, Leeds.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
Librarian, Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto, California, U.S.A.
Librarian, The University, Liverpool 3.
Librarian, Public Library, Los Angeles, California, U.S.A.
Librarian, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge 3, Louisiana, U.S.A.
Librarian, Manchester Psychical Research Society, 38 Deansgate, Man-
chester 3.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, 5701 Woodlawn Avenue,
Chicago 37, III, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Milwaukee Public Library, 814 W. Wisconsin Avenue,
Milwaukee 3, Wis., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, U.S.A.
Librarian, King's College, University of Durham, Newcastle-upon-Tyne i.
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-Tyne i.
Librarian, Public Library, New Bridge Street, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
Librarian, New York Academy of Medicine, 2 East 103rd Street, New
York City, U.S.A.
Librarian, New York Public Library, New York City, U.S.A.
Librarian, National Library Service, Wellington, New Zealand.
Librarian, Public Library, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Free Library of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Libraries, Rochdale, Lanes.
Librarian, The John Rylands Library, Manchester.
Librarian, St. Louis Mercantile Library Association, St. Louis, Mo.,
U.S.A.
i86 Members and Associates [Part
Librarian, Seabury-Western Seminary, Evanston, Illinois, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
Librarian, South African Public Library, Cape Town, S. Africa.
Librarian, Starr King School for the Ministry, 2441 Le Conte Avenue,
Berkeley 9, Calif., U.S.A.
Librarian, Sutton Coldfield Psychical Research Society, 88 Hollyfield
Road, Sutton Coldfield, Warwickshire.
Librarian, Swarthmore College Library, Swarthmore, Penna, U.S.A.
Librarian, The Theosophical Society, 50 Gloucester Place, London, W. i.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dr Williams' Library, 14 Gordon Square, London, W.C. i.
Librarian, Yale LIniversity Library, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
Lines, J., 2 Woodgrange Avenue, Enfield, Middx.
Linton, S. Fox., M.Sc, M.D., D.P.PL, The Old Mill, Cloughton,
Scarborough, Yorks.
Little, J. G., B.Sc, 13 Cranleigh Gardens, Kenton, Harrow, Middx.
Lloyd, Miss E. M.
Lloyd, Miss J.
Lloyd-Jones, Mrs G. M., Little Burrows, Throwleigh, Okehampton,
Devon.
Lloyd-Owen, Capt R. E., M.C., 18 Devas Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 20.
Locke, H., The Old Mill House, Bodle Street Green, nr Hailsham, Sussex.
Lodge, F. Brodie, Flore House, Flore, Northampton.
Lodge, Mrs F. Brodie, Flore House, Flore, Northampton.
Loewy, F. E., M.R.C.P., M.D., 7 Wellington Court, London, N.W. 8.
Longman, Mrs L.
Longson, Mrs H. E., 22 Merton Rise, London, N.W. 3.
Lowe, G. B., 148 Kensington Road, Coventry.
Lucas, Mrs E. B. C, Craston's Orchard, Yattendon, Newbury, Berks.
Lutz, C. B., 906 Braniff Building, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, U.S.A.
Lyon, Mrs K., The Old Barn, West Runton, Norfolk.
McConnel, Mrs M. L.
McConnell, Dr R. A., 151 Center Avenue, Emsworth, Pittsburgh 2,
Penna, U.S.A.
McDonald, Capt T. F., O.B.E., c/o Blue Star Line Ltd., 15 West Smith-
field, London, E.C. i.
McEwan, P. J. M., M.A., 2 Briardale Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
MacGregor, T. G., 97 Devonport Road, London, W. 12.
Mack, Mrs N. M. L., 33 Causewayside, Cambridge.
Mackay, N. D., M.D., Tigh'n Eilean, Aberfeldy, Perth.
Mackintosh, H. L., M.B., Ch.B., 7 St Meddan's Street, Troon, Ayrshire.
MacLaughlin, Mrs N. H., Old Acres, nr Battle, Sussex.
McLean, Dr Gladys F. A., 71 Victoria Road, Horwich, nr Bolton, Lanes.
MacLean, Miss S. M. P., Brecklarach, Tarbert, Argyll.
MacMullan, C. W., 2 The Rosary, South Heath, Gt Missenden, Bucks.
Mactaggart, M., Farce, Tewin, Welwyn, Herts.
Madders, Mrs H. F., 87 Hampstead Way, London, N.W. 4.
Maddock, F. N., 27 Park Crescent, Enfield, Middx.
Magnus, Mrs Laurie, Chart Cottage, Westerham, Kent.
i8i] Members and Associates 187
Magrane, Mrs V., Paradise Cottage, Bucklebury, Berks.
Mander, Sir Geoffrey, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
Manford, Mrs V. C, Ockendon Manor, Cuckfield, Sussex.
Mann, Miss B. P., 68 Grove Park Road, Chiswick, London, W. 4.
Manning, W. E., 5 Queen's Grove, St John's Wood, London, N.W. 8.
Mansell, A. E.
Mardall, B., 42 Naunton Way, Cheltenham, Glos.
Marduk, Professor O. S., 222 Lower Circular Road, Park Circus, Calcutta,
India.
Marsh, M. C, B.A., Psychology Dept., Rhodes University, Grahamstown,
South Africa.
Martin, Miss D. H., 60 Queen's Road, Richmond, Surrey.
Masham, F. W., B.A., B.Sc, 33 Park Way, Shenfield, Essex.
Mather, Mrs A. de Ville, Calder House, Todmorden, Lanes.
Mather, Rev. H., M.A., Royal Automobile Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. I.
Matheson, J. D., B.Sc, 15 High Street, Invergordon, Ross and Cromarty.
Matthevv'S, Mrs E. de P., 212 East 48th Street, New York 17, U.S.A.
Matthews, Capt H. E., The Croft, 10 St Anne's Road, Eastbourne,
Sussex.
Matthews, Very Rev. W. R., D.D., The Deanery, St Paul's, London, E.C. 4.
Mattock, G. V. R., B.Sc, c/o Metcalf Research Laboratory, Brown
University, Providence 12, Rhode Island, U.S.A.
Maunsell, G. A., Jersey Farm, Hildenborough, Kent.
Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., Pollok House, Pollokshaws, Glasgow, S. 3.
Maxwell, M. W., 2 Dr Johnson's Buildings, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
May, E., M.D., 37A Great Cumberland Place, London, W. i.
May, Rev. E. W. L., R.A.F., c/o Chaplain-in-Chief, Air Ministry, London.
Mayne, A. J., B.A., B.Sc
Medhurst, R. G., 126 Finborough Road, West Brompton, London, S.W. 10.
Melville-Ross, T., Spithurst House, Spithurst, Barcombe, nr Lewes,
Sussex.
Menon, M.A.P., Travancore Bank Ltd., Mattancherry P.O., Cochin, S.
India.
Merton, R., Broom Hill House, Boars Hill, Oxford.
Meulen, H., 31 Parkside Gardens, London, S.W. 19.
Middlekauff, J.P., 40 De Bell Drive, Atherton, Menlo Park, Calif., U.S.A.
Miller, G. B., B.Sc, Brentry, Romsey, Hants.
Miller, Mrs G. B., Brentry, Romsey, Hants.
Millerson, G. L., B.Sc, 81 Rutland Gardens, Harringay, London, N. 4.
Milne, Mrs S. L., Palais Royal, 37 Rue de France, Nice A.M., France.
Minns, Mrs H. C, Wings Place, Ditchling, Sussex.
Mitchell, A. M. J., B.Sc, 13 Weymans Avenue, Kinson, Bournemouth,
Hants.
Mitchell, B. G., Keble College, Oxford.
Moncrieff, C. M., 36 Drayton Gardens, London, S.W. 10.
Moncrieff, Capt M. M., the Cliffs, Nelson, New Zealand.
Moore, Sir Alan H., Bart., M.B., D.P.H., Hancox, Whatlington, Battle,
Sussex.
Moore, A. M. A., F.R.C.S., 137 Harley Street, London, W. i.
I
i88 Members and Associates [Part
Moore, Miss D. M., Hill Farm House, Seend, Wiltshire.
Moore, E. Garth, Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
Moran, G. L., Jr., 700 Fairway Avenue, Visalia, Calif., U.S.A.
Morgan, W. H. D., Ph.D., B.Sc., 30 Redstone Park, Redhill, Surrey.
Moritz, M. R., 76 Hillway, Highgate, London, N. 6.
Morris, B. S., B.Sc, 19 Springfield Road, St John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
Mortimore, J. S., The Dower House, Ilmington, Shipton-on-Stour,
Warwickshire.
Morton, Capt N., Ballygarvey House, Ballymena, Co. Antrim, N. Ireland.
Moss, Mrs G. P., 45 Ashfield Road, Chorley, Lanes.
Mossman, O. W., Westminster Bank House, Petworth, Sussex.
Moult, J. S., 3 Bronheulog, Abernant, Acrefair, nr Wrexham, N. Wales.
Mulckhuyse, J. J., 44 R. Vinkelskade, Amsterdam Z-i, Netherlands.
Mundle, C. W. K., M.A., 16 Springfield, Dundee, Angus.
Murphy, Professor Gardner, Ph.D., Menninger Foundation, Topeka,
Kansas, U.S.A. (Corresponding Member)
Murray, Dr Gilbert, O.M., LL.D., Litt.D., F.B.A., Yatscombe, Boar's
Hill, Oxford.
Murrell, A. W., 253 Greenford Road, Greenford, Middx.
Musel, R. S., 30 Bouverie Street, London, B.C. 4.
Musgrave, Flying Officer W., R.A.F., 175 Coppins Road, Clacton-on-Sea,
Essex.
Namier, Lady, 60 The Grampians, London, W. 6.
Nangie, Miss Ava, M.A., 22 Cyprus Gardens, London, N. 3.
Nash, Professor C. B., St Joseph's College, Philadelphia 31, Pennsylvania,
U.S.A.
Nash, Miss D., Point of Pines, Tryon, North Carolina, U.S.A.
Naumburg, Miss M., 135 East 54th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Neave, Mrs A. M. S., 11 Carlyle Square, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Nelson, Rev. R. A., 16 Kenilworth Park, Rathgar, Dublin, Eire.
Neustadter, L. W., 1918 Ancapa Street, Santa Barbara, Calif., U.S.A.
Nicholson, Dr Sybil, 8 Ashburn Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Nicol, J. Eraser, i-C^. University Apts., Duke University Road, Durham,
N.C., U.S.A.
Nicoll, Mrs Delancey, Middleburg, Virginia, U.S.A.
Nicolls, Mrs E., Cockatoo, Victoria, Australia.
Nisbet, B. C, 57 Haling Park Road, South Croydon, Surrey.
Noakes, Miss C, Court Lodge, Shorne, nr Gravesend, Kent.
Norona, D. A., P.O. Box 344, Kingwood, West Virginia, U.S.A.
Norris, J. H., 286 Cherry Hinton Road, Cambridge.
O'dell, A. E., 10 Knights Park, Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
O'Driscoll, Rev. C. O., O.S.A., Austin Friars, Carlisle, Cumberland.
Odutula, O. A., Glen Eyre Hall, Glen Eyre Road, Bassett, Southampton.
Ogden, R. B., Lincoln House, Chalfont Heights, Chalfont St Peter, Bucks.
Oldham, A. V., B.Sc, 178 Knowsley Road, St Helens, Lanes.
Oldham, O. W., 52 Monmouth Road, Bristol 7.
Oram, A. T., Conifers, Placehouse Lane, Old Coulsdon, Surrey.
Oram, J., Belle Vue House, Devizes, Wilts.
Orford, E. J., 66 Lowther Hill, London, S.E. 23.
i8i] Members and Associates 189
Osborn, A. W., Box 1035H, Elizabeth Street P.O., Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
Osborn, Edward, 18 Kensington Church Street, London, W. 8.
Painter, Rev. J., Portland Hotel, Portland Rise, London, N. 4.
Pal, R. D., M.B., B.S., 16 Queen's Gate Place, London, S.W. 7.
Palmstierna, Baron, The Bungalow, Ewelme, Oxon.
Parkin, J., M.A., Blaithwaite, Wigton, Cumberland.
Parrott, Professor L, M.A., D.Mus.(Oxon.), Edgecombe, Penglais Road,
Aberystwyth.
Parry, J. H., 2 Sandwich Villas, George Street, Huntingdon.
Parsons, D. A. H., M.Sc, 6 The Vale, Golders Green, London, N.W.
II.
Parsons, N. M., 33 Campden House Chambers, Sheffield Terrace, London,
W. 8.
Peacock, D. G., B.Sc, The Oratory School, Woodcote, Reading, Berks.
Peake, C. W., M.A., Flat 2, 11 Hartfield Road, Eastbourne, Sussex.
Peake, W. S., 327 East Street, Corry, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
Pearson, F. F. A., Foley Manor, Liphook, Hants.
Pease, Mrs J. R., 3 River Terrace, Henley-on-Thames, Oxon.
Peck, P. J., The Beeches, Higham Road, Rushden, Northants.
Pennington, Mrs R. L. A., c/o Guaranty Trust Co. of New York, 50 Pall
Mall, London, S.W. i.
Perceval, Hon. Mrs, Old Priory, Brightwell, nr Wallingford, Berks.
Perceval, P. E., 29 Ladbroke Road, London, W. 11.
Pervosky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Count, 77 Flood Street, London, S.W. 3.
(Hon. Member)
Perry, A. R., 3 Kingscliffe Gardens, Southfields, London, S.W. 19.
Perry, M. C, 18 Kilwardby Street, Ashby-de-la-Zouch, Leics.
Peters, Professor R. A., F.R.S., 14 Brookside, Headington, Oxford.
Phillimore, Hon. Mrs, Kendals Estate Ofhce, Radlett, Herts.
Phillimore, Miss M., 16 Queensberry Place, London, S.W. 7. (Hon.
Associate)
Phillips, Mrs C. G., Lanaderg, Heatherlands, George, CP., South Africa.
Phillips, N., 10 Linnell Drive, London, N.W. 11.
Pickup, C, 54 Higher Antley Street, Accrington, Lanes.
Plesch, Dr P. H., M.A., University College of North Staffordshire, Keele,
Stoke-on-Trent, Staffs.
Pocock, Miss F. N., 34 Gerard Road, Barnes, London, S.W. 13.
Pollard, R. S. W., 17 Victoria Street, London, S.W. i.
Pope, Mrs E., 10 Moorland Rise, King Lane, Leeds 7, Yorks.
Price, Professor H. H., F.B.A., New College, Oxford.
Price, P. L, B.A., 54 Tadworth Road, Cricklewood, London, N.W. 2.
Priestley, J. B., M.A., LL.D., D.Litt., B4 Albany, London, W. i.
Proctor, J. D., Court in Holmes, Forest Row, Sussex.
Pryor, Mrs E. P., M.B.E., B.E.M., Lannock Manor, Hitchin, Herts.
Pryor, Mrs R. M. M., Frays, Weston, Hitchin, Herts.
Pullan, P. W., 17 St Mark's Road, Enfield, Middx.
Pyman, J. W. H., Rodborough Court, Stroud, Glos.
Quinby, Rev. J. W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
Rabe, Mrs O. H., Sunshine Route, Gold Hill, Colorado, U.S.A.
1
2
190 Members and Associates [Part
Race, J. D., 27 Phillimore Court, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Rashleigh, J. C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton, Devon.
Raven, J. C, M.Sc, 20 Castle Street, Dumfries.
Rawcliffe, D. H., M.A., The Lawn, Pelynt, Looe, Cornwall. '
.
Rayleigh, The Lord, Terling Place, Chelmsford, Essex.
Rayleigh, The Lady, Terling Place, Chelmsford, Essex.
Redmayne, G., M.A., The Wall House, North Road, Hertford.
Redmill, Mrs J., 80B Chiltern Street, London, W. 1.
Reed, C. J., 26 Frugstreet, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
Reeves, A. H., 6 Rushworth Road, Reigate, Surrey.
Rendell, F. G., 2 Downview Road, Worthing, Sussex.
Reutiner, Miss A. H., Forum Club, 6 Grosvenor Place, London, S.W. i.
Rhine, J. B., Ph.D., Parapsychology Laboratory, Duke University, Durham,
North Carolina, U.S.A. (Corresponding Member)
Rhodes Moorhouse, Mrs L., Northam Tower, Barnard Castle, Co.
Durham.
Rhondda, The Viscountess, Churt Halewell, Shere, Surrey.
Richards, D. S., 39 School Street, Wolston, nr Coventry, Warwickshire.
Richards, Mrs Henry, 61 Northgate Mansions, Regents Park, London,
N.W. I.
Richardson, Rev. Dr C. C, 99 Claremont Avenue, New York 27, U.S.A.
Richardson, Mrs E. J. L., 14 Sheridan Road, Merton, London, S.W. 19.
Richmond, C. N., The Orangery, Felix Hall, Kelvedon, Essex.
Richmond, Mrs K., The Orangery Cottage, Felix Hall, Kelvedon, Essex.
(Hon. Associate)
Riddehough, Professor G. B., Ph.D., Dept of Classics, The University of
British Columbia, Vancouver 8, B.C., Canada.
Ridge, C. H., Pare Clies, Gulyal, Penzance, Cornwall.
Ridley, H. N., F.R.S., 7 Cumberland Road, Kew, Surrey.
Riggall, R. M., L.R.C.P., Northumberland House, Green Lanes, Fins-
bury Park, London, N. 4.
Robbins, Dr E. W., 503 Reed Street, Philadelphia 47, Pa., U.S.A.
Roberts, Mrs D. O., 58 Whitehouse Avenue, Boreham Wood, Herts.
Riviere, Mrs E., 4 Stanhope Terrace, London, W. 2. . .
Roberts, Miss E., 3 Brynton Road, Macclesfield, Cheshire.
Roberts, F. S., 14 Bridge Lane, Bramhall, Cheshire.
Roberts, W. A., Grittleton House, nr Chippenham, Wilts.
Robertson, A. J. B., M.A., D.Sc, 14 Lansdowne Crescent, London, W. 11.
Robson, Major J. S., Hales Place, Tenterden, Kent.
Rogers, G. F., M.A., M.D.
Rogers, M. N., c/o Mrs Tall, 30 Harrington Road, Leytonstone, Essex.
Roll, W. G., B.A., 10 Northmoor Road, Oxford.
Roscoe, G. T., M.A., Education Dept, Port Moresby, Papua, New Guinea.
Rose, Mrs C. P. G., Cobhambury House, Cobham, nr Gravesend, Kent.
Rosenthal, G. E., Ilkley Lodge, Churchfields, Weybridge, Surrey.
Ross, R., Balallan, Alness, Ross-shire.
Routh, D. A., 102 Philbeach Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
Routh, Lt-Col H. C. E., R.A., Oldhouses, Ipplepen, S. Devon.
Rowntree, W. S., 15 Chatsworth Road, Brighton, Sussex.
Russell, Dr A. V., 4 Oaks Crescent, Wolverhampton.
i8i] Members and Associates 191
Ryan, Major C. C. L., Green Rays, Mandevillc, Jamaica, B.W.I.
Sage, Professor C. M., 33 rue de Coulmiers, Paris XIV, France. (Hon.
Associate)
Sahib, A. G. Rao, B.A., 13 Hall's Road, Madras 8, India.
Salter, M. de G., The Crown House, Newport, Saffron Walden, Essex.
Salter, W. H., M.A., The Crown House, Newport, Saffron Walden, Essex.
Salter, Mrs W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Saffron Walden, Essex.
Salvin, J., 43 Hamilton Court, Maida Vale, London, W. 9.
Samuel, Miss V. R., c/o Barclays Bank, Farnham, Surrey.
Sanders, F. W. T., 42 Sydney Road, Chatham, Kent.
Sandover, R. L., D.S.O., Knoll Lodge, 39 The Ridgeway, Sanderstead,
Surrey.
Sandstrom, I., M.A., lOB Banersgatan, Malmo, Sweden.
Sassoon, Mrs M., Pope's Manor, Bracknell, Berks.
Sassoon, Mrs S., The Manor House, Winterbourne Dauntsey, Salisbury,
Wilts.
Saunders, H. de B., Wylderne, Bridge Street, Gt Kimble, nr Aylesbury,
Bucks.
Savill, Dr Agnes, 7 Devonshire Place, London, W. i.
Schmeidler, Professor Gertrude R., Ph.D., 229 West 97th Street, New
York 25, N.Y., U.S.A.
Schul, I., P.O.B. 1 1 19, Haifa, Israel.
Schumacher, E. F., Holcombe, Weald Way, Caterham, Surrey.
Schwartz, Dr E. K., 65 East 76th Street, New York 21, N.Y., U.S.A.
Sciama, D. W., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Scott, C. S. O'D., 9 Matheson Road, London, W. 14.
Scott, D. P., 7 The Little Boltons, London, S.V/. 7.
Scott, Capt J. E., M.C.
Scott, K. F., Newland, Kirkby Road, Ripon, Yorks.
Scott, M. E. B., 9 Matheson Road, London, W. 14.
Scott, Mrs M., Flint House, i Church Street, Cromer, Norfolk.
Scott-Elliot, Miss A. M., Fresden, Highworth, Wiltshire.
Scott Maxwell, P. D., D.S.C., c/o Cooke, Troughton & Simms Ltd.,
Haxby Road, York.
Scriven, M. J., Magdalen College, Oxford.
Selby, P., 79 Roundwood Way, Banstead, Surrey.
Seward, P. S., Beeches, Mallory Road, Hove, Sussex.
Sewell, Mrs C. H., Evendine, Stoke Hill, Stoke Bishop, Bristol 9.
Shackleton, B., Sans Souci, Sir Lowry's Pass, CP., South Africa. (Hon.
Associate)
Shag, Mrs A., 57 Dickens Road, Honicknowle, Plymouth.
Shann, A. V., 17 Victoria Square, London, S.W. i.
Shelley, K. E., Q.C., 6 Pump Court, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
Shelton, P. H., 11 St George's Place, V/estmount, Montreal, P.Q., Canada.
Shepherd, Rev. W. L., The Vicarage, Holme on Spalding Moor, York.
Sibley, Professor M. Q., 395 Ford Hall, University of Minnesota, Min-
neapolis 14, Minnesota, U.S.A.
Sills, H. D., Hillstead, Gt Shelford, Cambs.
Sim, Alastair, 17 Sandwell Mansions, West End Lane, London, N.W. 6.
Sinnett, K., 16 Kew Gardens Road, Kew, Surrey.
192 Members and Associates [Part
Sinnett, Mrs K., 16 Kevv Gardens Road, Kew, Surrey.
Sitwell, Sir Osbert, Bart., Renishaw Hall, Renishaw, nr Sheffield, Yorks.
Sitwell, Mrs W., 167 Victoria Street, London, S.W. i.
Sivadas, S., B.A., 69 Sophia Road, Singapore 9.
Slatopolsky, I. L., B.Sc, 47 Cambridge Road, Ely, Cambs.
Slomann, A., Trommesalen 7, Copenhagen V, Denmark.
Smith, Rev. A. Flandel, 2 Maxey Road, Helpston, Peterborough, Northants.
Smith, Rev. Alson J., Ashley Falls, Mass., U.S.A.
Smith, B. D., 145 Ramsden Road, London, S.W. 12.
Smith, F., 27 Yews Hill Road, Huddersfield, Yorks.
Smith, G. A., 18 Chanctonbury Road, Hove 4, Sussex.
Smythies, J. R., M.B., D.P.M., The Sasketchewan Hospital, Weyburn,
Sasketchewan, Canada.
Soal, S. G., M.A., D.Sc, 28 Thurleigh Road, London, S.W. 12.
Soal, Mrs S. G., 28 Thurleigh Road, London, S.W. 12.
Sowrey, Air Commodore J., R.A.F., Quarry Down, Hythe, Kent.
Spens, Sir Will, Master of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
Spickett, Miss D. C, 41 Lowndes Street, London, S.W. i.
Spinney, G. H., B.A., Ensleigh, Crossways Road, Grayshott, nr Hindhead,
Surrey. (Hon. Associate)
Spong, A. N., Bars Corner, Alford Bars, Loxwood, Billinghurst, Sussex.
Spranger, J. A., Old Malthouse, Ashford Hill, Newbury, Berks.
Stanton, S., 4 Weymouth Court, Weymouth Street, London, W. i.
Steane, G. A., 5 Queen Victoria Road, Coventry.
Steel, F., II Rectory Road, Grays, Essex.
Stephens, W. F., Mahe, Seychelles, India Ocean.
Stephenson, S. R., 3 Market Place, Morpeth, Northumberland.
Steuart, Mrs M. D., Down, Whimple, Devon.
Stevens, Mrs A. W., 25 Chalcot Square, London, N.W. i.
Stevens, C. C, Friars, Herongate, Brentwood, Essex.
Stevens, Rev. W. H., Epworth, 38 Fairfield Road, Widnes, Lanes,
Stevenson, Mrs G. W., 16 Thurloe Street, London, S.W. 7.
Stewart, Mrs M. B., 17 St James's Square, Bath, Somerset.
Stewart, Mrs M. M., Queen's Acre, Lymington, Hants.
Stewart, Miss M., 63A Carlton Hill, St John's Wood, London, N.W. 8.
Stiles, J. W., 269 Baring Road, Grove Park, London, S.E. 12.
Stocker, Lt-Col C. J., M.C., M.A., M.D., Crowmire Wood, Ghyll Head,
Bowness-on-Windermere.
Stokes, Mrs M., 157 Nottingham Road, Mansfield, Notts.
Stoner, S. H., Dimbola Private Hotel, Freshwater Bay, L of W.
Storer, A. J., Cheriton, Eleven Acre Rise, Loughton, Essex. . .
Stott, M. D., M.A., 74 Hawes Lane, West Wickham, Kent.
Strachey, Mrs St Loe, Deudraeth Castle North, Penrhyndeudraeth,
N. Wales.
Stratton, Professor F. J. M., F.R.S., Gonville and Cains College, Cam-
bridge.
Strong, L. A. G., Shortfield House, Frensham, Surrey.
Strong, Mrs L. A. G., Shortfield House, Frensham, Surrey.
Strutt, Admiral the Hon. A. C, 2 Whitehall Court, London, S.W. i.
Strutt, Hon. Mrs A. C, Hodges, Shipton-Moyne, Tetbury, Glos,
i8i] Members and Associates 193
Strutt, Hon. C. R., Blunts Hall, Witham, Essex.
Strutt, Mrs G., Newhouse, Terling, Chelmsford, Essex.
Strutt, Hon. H. V., 19 Williams Mews, Lowndes Square, London, S.W. i.
Stuart, C. E. B., Kiltonga, Culmore, Co. Derry, N. Ireland.
Stubbs, P., Oak Cottages, Station Road, Wigton, Cumberland.
Stutchbury, O. P., Gayles, Friston, Eastbourne, Sussex.
Sutton, A. C, 191 Pield Heath Road, Hillingdon, Uxbridge, Middx.
Sutton, Mrs C. A., 4002 Montrose Avenue, Westmount, Montreal, Canada.
Swayne, Lady, Byways, Rotherwick, Basingstoke, Hants.
Sweetlove, T., 67c Broadway West, Leigh-on-Sea, Essex.
Swinburn, W. R., 11 Briarfield Road, Cheadle Hulme, Cheshire.
Tanagra, Admiral A., M.D., Aristotelous Street 67, Athens, Greece.
(Corresponding Member)
Tapp, A. J., 164 Matlock Crescent, Cheam, Surrey.
Taylor, L. F., M.A., Charleston, Nevis, B.W.L
Tenhaeff, Dr W. H. C, Adm. V. Genstraat, 53 bis, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(Corresponding Member)
Tennant, B. V. A., M.A., Hams Plot, Beaminster, Dorset.
Terry, L. B., 12 Bloomsbury Square, London, W.C. i.
Thibodeau, W. A., 20 Chapel Street, Brookline, Mass., U.S.A.
Thomas, Rev. C. D., 33 Westmoreland Road, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, C. W. F., L.D.S., 362 Mare Street, London, E. 8.
Thomas, Mrs Gale, 19 Stanley Crescent, Notting Hill, London, W. 11.
Thorburn, J. M., M.A., B.Sc, St. Michael's, Hartfield, Sussex.
Thornton, Mrs M. P., 5 Belgrave Place, Edinburgh 4.
Thorward, Mrs M., 62 Winchester Court, London, W. 8.
Thouless, Dr R. H., Ph.D., 2 Leys Road, Cambridge. (Hon. Associate)
Thurlow, The Lady, Ardleigh Court, Colchester, Essex.
Tickell, Mrs Jerrard, 21 Hilgrove Road, London, N.W. 6.
Tilford, Judge H. J., 291 1 Lilac Way, Louisville, Kentucky, U.S.A.
Timonen, J., M.A., 12 Witley Court, Woburn Place, London, W.C. i.
Tinkler, J. D., Glenburn, Summer Street, Stormy Corner, Skelsmersdale,
Lanes.
Tischner, Dr R., Icking b. Munich, Germany. (Corresponding Member)
Toksvig, Miss S., Skovriderstien 6, Holte, Denmark,
Torrie, Mrs Dighton, 3 Orme Square, London, W. 2.
Traill, Miss D. E., 3 Woodstock Avenue, Sutton, Surrey.
Traneker, Miss K. G., M.A., 59 Mount Crescent, Brentwood, Essex.
Tripp, Rev. N. F., Delbury Vicarage, Craven Arms, Salop.
Tromp, Dr S. W., Hofbronckerlaan 54, Oegstgeest, Leiden, Holland.
Troubridge, Una Lady.
Turner, J. Greenwood, BM/FUGACITY, London, W.C. i.
Turner, J. W., Bella Vista, 56 Graystone Road, Tankerton, Kent.
Turner, Miss M. D., 16 Clifton Terrace, Brighton, Sussex.
Turner, M. E., Jr., Box 6847, College Station, Durham, North Carolina,
U.S.A.
Turner, R. C, B.Sc, 41 Senga Road, Hackbridge, Surrey.
Turtle, Mrs D. M., 21 Valley Road, Welwyn Garden City, Herts.
Tuson, Major K. H., R.E., Nicobar, Camden Park Road, Chislehurst,
Kent.
194 Members and Associates [Part
Tustin, J. R., 121 Poole Road, Bournemouth, Hants.
Tyrrell, G. N. M., Prospect, Blanford Road, Reigate, Surrey.
Ulman, M., M.D., 55 Orlando Avenue, Ardsley, New York, U.S.A.
Underwood, A. P., 13A The Hermitage, Richmond, Surrey.
Underwood, V. P., B.A., Ph.D., Bridget's Cottage, Riding Mill,
Northumberland,
van der Maas, C. J., Mechelsesteenweg 153, Antwerp, Belgium.
Vandy, G. E., Castilla Hotel, Plaistow Lane, Bromley, Kent.
Varley, H., M.Sc, 2 Fairfax Avenue, Didsbury, Manchester 20.
Vasse, Mrs P., 136 Boulevard Chatcaudun, Amiens, France.
Vaughan-Jones, T. G. C, M.A., P.O. Box 72, Lusaka, Northern Rhodesia.
Vavasseur-Durell, Mrs D., 14 Turner Close, London, N.W. 11.
Veal, Miss K. L, "^i Albemarle, Parkside, Wimbledon Common, London,
S.W. 19.
Vearnals, S. A., 20 Market Street, Poole, Dorset.
Vett, C, c/o 13 Kongens Nytorv, Copenhagen, Denmark. (Corresponding
Member)
Vinod, D. G., M.A., Ph.D., 864 Sahashiv, Poona, India.
Wakely, Sir Clifford H., K.B.E., The Homestead, LTpper Cumberland
Walk, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
Walker, Mrs D., i Crediton Hill, London, N.W. 6.
Walker, Miss N., Clemcroft, Soudley, Church Stretton, Shropshire.
(Hon. Associate)
Wallwork, S. C, Ph.D., Dept of Chemistry, The University, Nottingham.
Walton, E. B., Flat Two, '
Wavell ', 6 Southey Street, Elwood, Melbourne
S. 3, Victoria, Australia.
Wang, C. Y., M.A., Wah Chang Trading Corporation, Woolworth
Building, New York, U.S.A.
Warcollier, R., 79 Avenue de la Republique, Courbevoie, Seine, France.
(Corresponding Member)
Ward, P., 105 Rookwood Avenue, Chorley, Lanes.
Warner, Hon. Mrs W. W., 2 Weymouth Street, London, W. i.
Warner, A. O., 11 Dawson Place, London, W. 2.
Warren, Miss D. E., 30 Oakley Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Warrick, F. W., 8 Cardigan Mansions, 19 Hill Rise, Richmond, Surrey.
Watkin, F. L, 114 Moss Bank Road, Windle, St Helens, Lanes.
Watkins, Miss K. E., B.Sc, F.L.A., 53 All Souls Avenue, Willesden,
London, N.W. 10.
Webb, Rev. G. C. N., The Parsonage, Southwick, Hants.
Webb, Mrs N., Pear Tree, Churchstanton, Taunton, Somerset.
Webster, D., Idlewild, Fountainhall Road, Aberdeen.
Wedgwood, J. H., Aston House, Stone, Staffs.
Weightman, J. A., B.Sc, c/o Barclays Bank (D. C. & O.) Ltd., Dar-es-
Salaam, Tanganyika, B.E. Africa.
Weinstein, J. L., 50 Heathway Court, West Heath Road, London, N.W. 3.
Wellesley, Sir Victor A. A. H., C.B., 12 Ranelagh Grove, Ebury Bridge,
London, S.W. i.
Wellman, Miss A., 350 West 55th Street, New York 19, U.S.A.
Welsford, Miss E. E. H., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Wenberg, Mrs E. D., 1203 Bay Street, Beaufort, South Carolina, U.S.A.
i8i] Members and Associates 195
Wereide, Dr T., The University, Oslo, Norway. (Corresponding
Member)
West, D. J., M.B., D.P.M., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i.
West, R. P. H., B.A., 72 Somerset Road, Kensington, Johannesburg,
South Africa.
Western, A. M., 23 Langland Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Western, Rt Rev. Bishop F. J., 85 New Road, Ware, Herts.
Whaley, Mrs P., Fairhaven, Nailsea, Bristol.
Wheeler, Miss A. M., c/o Miss Andrews, 59 Holywell Street, Oxford.
Whiteley, C. H., 42 Sandford Road, Birmingham 13.
Whiteman, Miss W. E., 62 Queen's Gardens, London, W. 2.
Wiesner, Dr B. P., 31 Portland Place, London, W. i.
Wilde, G. L., Birchwood Farm, Coxbench, Derbyshire.
M^ilkins, C. F., 73 Mayfield Avenue, Orpington, Kent.
Wilkinson, C. R., 62 Grosvenor Street, London, W. i.
Williams, Miss J., 400 Ferry Road, Edinburgh 5.
Williams, Miss V. M., Rectory Flat, Spaxton, Bridgwater, Somerset.
Williamson, Miss E. M., c/o Glyn Mills & Co., Kirkland House, Whitehall,
London, S.W. i.
Williamson, Mrs M. W., 262 Nithsdale Road, Glasgow, S. i.
Wilson, A. J. C, Ph.D., Physics Dept, University College, Cardiff.
Wilson, Mrs C. Stuart, The Red Lion Inn, Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Wilson, Mrs D., 2 Albany Terrace, London, N.W. i.
Wilson, G. L., 3 Sheridan Road, Merton Park, London, S.W. 19.
Wilson, Dr Katharine M., 3 Wythfield Road, London, S.E. 9.
Wilson, P., 3 Sheridan Road, Merton Park, London, S.W. 19.
Wilson, R., M.A., Ph.D., Christ Church, Oxford.
Wilson, W. Ker, D.Sc, Ph.D., 14 Handel Close, Canons Park, Edgware,
Middx.
Wingfield-Digby, G. V., Frimley, 21 Carysfort Road, Boscombe, Hants.
Winn, D. S. Merrick, 5 Queensboro' Studios, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
Winspear, G. D., Hazeldene, Darlington Lane, Durham Road, Stockton-
on-Tees, Co. Durham.
Wint, Mrs F., 55 Bushmead Avenue, Bedford.
Winterstein, Dr Alfred Baron, Reisnerstrasse 29, Vienna HI, Austria.
Winther, Professor Dr C, Tornagervej 6, Charlottenlund, Denmark.
(Corresponding Member)
Wintle, P., 102 Boulcott Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
Wisdom, John, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Wodehouse, Miss H. M., Energlyn, Ithon Road, Llandrindod Wells.
Wood, C, I Rockledge Road, Laguna Beach, California, U.S.A.
Wood, Mrs St O. M. E., Parsonage Hall, Bures, Suffolk.
Wood, T. E., Holmwood, 12 Chine Crescent Road, Bournemouth.
Woodcock, Mrs N., 14 Primrose Hill Road, London, N.W. 3.
Woodley, F. J., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Cranleigh, 5 Jubilee Road, Dursley,
Glos.
Woodward, Miss K. M., Coombe Springs, Coombe Lane, Kingston-on-
Thames, Surrey.
Woodworth, L. A., Green Shutters, 21 Hugo Street, Krugersdorp,
Transvaal, South Africa.
196 Members and Associates [Part
Woolcock, C. E., M.Sc, c/o P.O. Box 150, Portland, Victoria, Australia.
Vvratislaw, Major J. M. B., White House, Burton Bradstock, Bridport,
Dorset.
Wrench, P., Colston's School, Stapleton, Bristol.
Wright, Rev. J. Stafford, M.A., 133 Pembroke Road, Bristol 8.
^Vright, K. A., 156 The Boulevard, Strathfield, New South Wales,
Australia.
Wydenbruck, Countess Nora, 13 Addison Gardens, London, W. 14.
Wynne, Dr A. T., 26 St James Mansions, West End Lane, London, N.W. 6.
Wynton, F/Lt J. P., R.A.F., Officers' Mess, Royal Air Force, Devesoir,
MEAF 10.
Yallop, J., 16 Holwood Road, Bromley, Kent.
Yool, H., Meads Croft, St John's Road, Eastbourne, Sussex.
Yorke, Miss G. M., 256 Sydenham Road, Croydon, Surrey.
Young, A. J., B.A., 32 Ashwood Avenue, West Didsbury, Manchester 20.
Young, Lt-Col T. C'. McCombie, M.D., D.P.H., 68 Belsize Park, London,
N.W. 3.
Yuill, E., 35 Askham Lane, Acomb, York.
Zorab, G., Verdistraat 32, The Hague, Holland.
Zucker, E. P., B.Sc, 22 Westview Crescent, Edmonton, London, N. 9.
INDEX TO VOLUME XLIX
1949-52
For the sake of brevity such qualifications as 'supposed',
'alleged', etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however, be
understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and does
not imply any assertion that the'subject-matter of any entry is in
fact real or genuine.
Abbott, Dr C. G., on displacement
in card guessing, 142, 143
Abramowski, E., experiments of,
152-3
Allison, Lydia W., obituary of Miss
Isabel Newton, 56-7
Animal magnetism, 158
Animals, intelligence of, 167
Bateman, F., experiments with
S. G. Soal, 138, 143, 150
Bats, sense of direction in, 167
Bergson, Henri, and telepathy, 163,
167, 169 ; and animal intel-
ligence, 167
Birds, collective movement in, 168
Blavatsky, Mme, 158
British Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, Het-
tinger's address to the, 46
Broad, C. D., review of Matter,
Mind and Meaning, 51-2, 61 ; on
precognition, 61 ; on relation of
PK to ESP, 73 ; 'Immanuel
Kant and Psychical Research',
79—104 ; and electromagnetic
phenomena, 134 ;
quoted, 137,
148 ; and clairvoyance, 150 ; on
theories of precognition, 161
Bruner, J. S., and Postman, L., on
sense-perception, 5
Card-guessing experiments, S. G.
Soal on criticism of, 136
Carington, W. Whately, on mass
effects in ESP, 4 ; and person-
ality, 13 ; his philosophical
position, 5 1 ;
Matter, Mind and
Meaning reviewed, 51-2 ; and
PK, 75 ;
experiments in para-
normal cognition of drawings,
78 ; method of scoring, 78 ;
experiments with dice, 107 ;
picture-guessing experiments,
136, 142, 143, 148-51
Causation, theories of, 63
Charcot, J. M., and hypnosis, 156
Christian Science, cures of, 158,
159
Ciphers, as tests for survival, 105
Clairvoyance experiments, Pearce-
Pratt, 135 ; Esther B. Foster
^
and, 143
Clairvoyance, Schmeidler quoted
on atmosphere in experiments,
12 ; apparatus for testing, 152
Colorado, University of : Martin
and Stribic experiments at, 136,
143
Communists, and ESP, 135
Coover, J. E., experiments at Stan-
ford University, 139
Daily Express, and J. Hettinger's
experiments on object-reading,
17, 46
Dale, Mrs L. A., experiments by,
10, II, 13, 43 ff.
Davis, A. J., and American spiri-
tualism, 157
Dice-throwing, see Psycho-kinesis
Dreams, and telepathy, Kant on,
9
Eddington, Sir A. S., idealistic
attitude in physics, 141
Exploring the Ultra-Perceptive
Faculty, reviewed and criticized,
16 ff; 37 ff.
Extrasensory Perception (ESP),
large-scale experiments, 3 ;
Betty Humphrey, C. Stuart, and
W. W. Carington on mass
effects in, 4 ;
cards, 5, 10 ; test-
ing for, 8 ;
precognitive, 64 ;
'Some Aspects of, S. G. Soal,
131-53 ; Schmeidler experi-
ments, 5 ; methods of produc-
ing, 13 ; a primitive kind of
awareness, 147
197
ig8 Index to Vol. XLIX
Faith-healing, 159
Foster, Mrs Esther Bond, and
phenomenon of displacement,
142-7
Galton, F., on special sensitivity of
hearing, 168
Gibson, E. P., assessment of Dr
Hettinger's experiments, 44 ff.
Goldney, Mrs, experiments with
Dr Soal, 8, 12, 62, 70-1, 143
Groningen experiment in tele-
pathy, 2
Hallucinations, Macbeth and, ii ;
Kant and sensory, 102-3 > the
Census of, 160
Hardy, A. C., and biological pheno-
mena, 134 ; and extrasensory
perception, 139
Harmonial Philosophy, 157
Herbert, C. V. C, obituary of Miss
Isabel Newton, 59-60
Hettinger, J., critical review of the
work of, by C. Scott, 16-50 ;
his methods in tests, 19, 21, 27 ;
alleged errors of, 21 ff. ; use of
statistics, 21 ff. ; use of controls
in evaluation, 28 ff. ; coincid-
ences discussed by, 37, 41 ; and
picture-tests, 38 ff. ; trans-
atlantic experiments of, 1945-6,
42—6 ;
experiments with C.
Scott, 46-50
Homing, in animals, 167
Humphrey, Betty M., experiments,
4, 14, 15 ; and PK with dice,
1 16-17, 124 ;
quoted, 127, 130 ;
and personality traits and ESP,
133 ;
experiment with Pratt, 151
Hutchinson, E., and extrasensory
perception, 139
Huxley, Aldous, and extrasensory
perception, 139
Hyperaesthesia, in ESP, 65 ; Dr
Gilbert Murray's experiments
and, 162
Hypnosis, in medicine, 156, 159
Ideo-motor action, and PK, 73
Insects, sense of direction in, 167
James, William, on religious belief
and the S.P.R., 155, 169
Jephson, Ina, obituary of Miss
Isabel Newton, 57
Journal of the American S.P.R.,
16, 17, 42, 49
Journal of Parapsychology, 69, 70,
126, 142, 151
'Kant, Immanuel, and Psychical
Research', 79-104 ; Trdume eines
Geistersellers, quoted, 19, 84, 85,
86, 89 ; the Stockholm Fire, 84,
85, 86 ; Kant's definition of
'spirit ',
89, 90, 91 ;
arguments
for and against Cartesian view of
the soul, 92-3 ; and the spirit-
world, 95 ; and Swedenborg's
doctrines, loi ; and dreams,
100 ; and sensory hallucinations,
102-3
Kelvin (William Thomas), Lord,
on spiritualistic phenomena, 159
Knoblock, C. von, 79, 86, 87
Knowles, E. A. G., experiments
with dice, 107
Kropotkin, P. A., quoted, 168
Lapps, sense of direction in, 167
Latin squares, and randomisation,
108, 1 1 1 ff., 126
Leonard, Mrs O., 13
Levine, Lillian, and group experi-
ment, 10
Lewin, Kurt, topological psycho-
logy of, 7
Lourdes, alleged cures at, 159
Machine throwing for dice, 108 ff.
McDougall, W., 9
McLeish, John, and Russian pro-
paganda against ESP, 135 ff.
McMahan, Elizabeth, 138
Marteville, Mme de, and the lost
receipt, 83
Martin, Dorothy R., and Stribic,
Frances, experiments in ESP,
8, 136 ; examined by Pratt and
Foster, 143, 144, 147
Matter, Mind and Meaning, by W.
Whately Carington, reviewed,
51-2
Mesmer, F. A., 155, 156
Mesmerism, operations under, 156
Modern Quarterly, quoted, 135
Mongoose 'Jeff', 132
Index to Vol. XLIX 199
Mundle, C. W. K., The Experi-
mental Evidence for PK and
Precognition, 61-78 ; 150
Munroe, Ruth, and Rorschach
tests, 5
Murphy, Prof. Gardner, Psychical
Research and Personality, 1-15,
134
Murray, Dr Gilbert, Presidential
Address, 155-69 ;
experiments
in telepathy, 162 ff.
Myers, F. W. H., i, 2, 11, quoted ;
his conception of personality,
1-2, 15
Newton, Miss Isabel, obituary, 53-
60
Neiu York Times Magazine, quoted,
135
Nezvs Chronicle, quoted, 137
Nicol, J. Eraser, 18
Object-reading, experimental, C.
Scott, 16-50
Oram, A. T., 143
Osbom, Ruth, alleged witch, 156-7
Palladino, Eusapia, and cheating,
159
Paranormal, universality of, 3
Parsons, D. A. H., on PK with
dice, 108, III ;
apparatus in-
vented by, 152
Pearce-Pratt, clairvoyance experi-
ments, 135
Pederson-Krag, G., 9
Personality, meaning of, i ; F. W.
H. Myers's conception of, i, 2, 15
Personality traits and ESP, 133
Phantasms of the Living, quoted, 7,
II, 104
Piddingtons, the, and refusal of
scientific investigation, 140
Piper, Mrs. L., 7, 13
PK : Mrs Dale's experiment, 13 ;
standard method for, 14 ;
report
on P K with dice, 107 ff. ; defini-
tion of, 62-3 ;
experimental
evidence for, 64 ; and dice-
throwing experiments, 64. See
also Psycho-kinesis
PK and Precognition, Experi-
mental Evidence for, 61-78 ;
experimental separation of, 112;
ideo-motor action and PK, 73
Podmore, F., account of the 'New
Motor', 158 ; on phantasms, 160
Polanyi, M., The Logic of Liberty
quoted, 156
Postman, L., see Bruner, J. S.
Pratt, J. G., experiments with J. L.
Woodruff, 3, 4, 136 ; on psycho-
logical laws, 14 ;
experiments
with Pearce, 135 ; on displace-
ment effect, 142 ; on Martin-
Stribic experiments, 143 ff. ; ex-
periments with B . Humphrey, 151
Precognition, experimental evid-
ence for, 61 ff. ; and philosophy,
160 ;
supernormal non-inferen-
tial, C. D. Broad on, 61
Price, H. H., on W. W. Carington's
Matter, Mind and Meaning, 51-
2 ; on relation of PK to ESP,
73 ; on ESP, 147 ; and atomic
theory of ideas and images, 150 ;
on theories of precognition, 161
'Psi-gamma', process of, 11
Psychical Research, and person-
ality (G. Murphy), 1-15 ; Kant
and (C. D. Broad), 79 ff.
Psycho-kinesis with dice, and psy-
chological factors favouring suc-
cess (R. H. Thouless), 107-30 ;
PK technique, 116 ff. ; favour-
able and unfavourable condi-
tions for experimentation, 122.
See also P K
Psychon system, 148, 149
Random selector, 67-8
Randomizing targets by Latin
squares, 108, iii ff.
Reeves, Margaret, on degrees of
dissociation, 7
Religious belief, and the S.P.R.'s
researches, 155 ff.
Review : Carington, W. W.,
Matter, Mind and Meaning, 5
1
Rhine, J. B., experiments, 8 ; Prof.
Murphy's first visit to, 13 ; and
dice-throwing experiments, 64 ff.,
107-8, 136, 161 ; on relation of
PK to ESP, 73 ; and the atom,
131 ; Communist propaganda
against, 135 ; his theories, 138-
9 ;
negative scoring discovered
by, 140 ;
card-guessing tests,
200 Index to Vol. XLIX
142 ; and clairvoyance, 150 ;
displacement effect with, 161 ;
and telekinesis, 162
'Rhine on Reason' {Modern Quar-
terly), quoted, 135
Roberts, Mrs Adeline, 6
Rorschach tests, 5, 6, 10
Royal Medical and Chirurgical
Society, 156
Russell, Bertrand, and Carington's
theory of sense data, 148
Russell, W., and displacement, 143
Salter, H. de G., obituary of Miss
Isabel Newton, 58
Salter, W. H., obituary of Miss
Isabel Newton, 53-6
Saltmarsh, H. F., 62
Schiller, F. C, on J. E. Coover, 139
Schmeidler, G. R., experiments, 4,
5, 6 ;
quoted, 12 ; studies in
clairvoyance, 13, 14, 15 ;
per-
sonality traits and ESP, 133
Scott, Christopher, 'Experimental
Object-reading ; A critical re-
view of the work of Dr J.
Hettinger', 16-50
Servadio, E., 9
Shackleton, B., experiments with,
12, 13, 160 ;
multiple deter-
mination in scoring, 70 ; and
PK, 74 ;
precognitive telepathy,
136, 137 ; and displacement,
142 ff. ;
experiments with, 160
Shuffling machine, 69
Sidgwick, H., 159
Sidgwick, Mrs H., and telepathy,
2-3 ;
quoted, 12 ; on evidence
for survival, 160 ; and report on
thought transference (1924), 162;
and telepathy, 163
Soal, S. G., quoted, 12 ;
experi-
ments with Basil Shackleton, 70 ;
with Mrs Stewart, 74, 160 ;
'Some Aspects of Extrasensory
Perception', 131-53 ; doubts
about clairvoyant precognition,
161, 162 ;
statistically con-
trolled experiments, 161
Soal and Goldney, report quoted,
8, 12, 62 ; 70 ff., 136 ff.
Society for Psychical Research :
W. James on religious belief and
the, 155, 169
Stanford University, Coover's ex-
periments at, 139
Stewart, Mrs G., and telepathy, 12,
13, 74 ;
experiments with, 136
ff., 149, 150, 160 ;
displacement
phenomena of, 146
Stockholm, Swedenborg and the
fire at, 84
Stribic, Frances P., and Martin,
Dorothy R., experiments in
ESP, 8, 136 ; data examined by
Pratt and Foster, 143, 144, 147
Stuart, Charles E., testing clair-
voyance, 4, 133, 143
Survival, further test for, 105-6
Swedenborg, Emanuel, 79 If. ; and
case of the Queen Ulrika of
Sweden, 80 ff. ; and the Stock-
holm fire, 84 ; and the lost
receipt, 83 ;
Queen Ulrika's
interview with, 85 ; and Kant's
doctrines, 10
1
Talking mongoose, Jeff, 132
Taves, E., and group experiment,
10
Telekinesis, J. B. Rhine's cases of,
162. See also PK
Telepathy : Groningen experi-
ment in, 2 ;
Warcollier, view
regarding, 2 ; Mrs Sidgwick
and, 2 ; Pratt-Woodruff experi-
ment in, 3-4 ; Rhine's and
Tyrrell's experiments, 8 ;
psy-
chometric, across the Atlantic,
42-6 ; on the stage, 132 ; in
machines, 132 ; future experi-
ments, 132-3, 152-3 ;
experi-
mental evidence for, and criti-
cism, 134 ;
'Pure', 138 ; the
Piddingtons, 140 ; association
theory, 148 ; Dr Murray's ex-
periences, 162 ff. ; in birds and
animals, 168 ;
experiments in,
162 ;
meaning of, 163
Telepathy, see also Thought-trans-
ference
Tessin, Count, 80-1
'Test for Survival, A further',
(T. E. Wood), 105-6
Thought-transference, Mrs Sidg-
wick's report on, 162
Thouless, R. H., process of psi-
gamma, 1 1 ;
unity of psychology
Index to Vol XLIX
and psychical research, 14 ; tests
for survival, 105 ;
'Report on
Psycho-kinesis with Dice, and a
discussion of Psychological
Factors favouring success', 107-
30
The Times, letter to, on telepathy,
135
Tolstoy, Leo, quoted, 163
Tyrrell, G. N. M., quoted, i, 8
Ulrika, Louisa, Queen, interview
with Swedenborg, 85
Ultra-Perceptive Faculty, The, re-
viewed and criticised, 16 ff. ;
summary of, 18 fF. ;
exploring
the, 37
University of London Council for
Psychical Investigation, 131
\ \ Verrall, Mrs A. W., in 'one horse
dawn' experiment, 7 ;
Report
(191 6) on experiments in guess-
ing, 162 ; on Dr Murray's
experiments, 164
201
Warcollier, R., 2
Walker, Nea, obituary of Miss
Isabel Newton, 57-8
Ward, W. S., operation by, under
'mesmeric trance', 156
Western, A. M., and experiments
in object-reading, 18
Whispering, unconscious, 136, 137,
138
Wiesner, B. P., and psi-gamma, 11
Wilson, R., random selector
designed by, 67
Wood, T. E., 'A Further Test for
Survival', 105-6
Woodruff, J. L., experiments with
J. G. Pratt, 3, 4, 136
Woodworth, Hugh, 6
Young, Brigham, 157
Zener cards, C. G. Abbott and,
142 ; and card-guessing experi-
ments, 144, 151
'i
