{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 8179","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n47_feb_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N47 February 1888","mylang":"de"}
No. XLVIL-VoL. IlL FBBRUARY, l838.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New A8IIOCIates •.
Annual Business Meeting
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
Meetlnas of the Conncll.. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
=~Te=entB.~)' M: .Char~~ Ri~~et o~Te1e.~thi~.HfP1;'~t~.
NEW ASSOCIATES.
DARELL-BROWN, MRS., 1, Douro Villas, Cheltenham.
FREER, MISS, 6, Westbourne Grove Terrace, London, W.
FRy, R. E., King's College, Cambridge.
LINDSAY, DR. ROBERT, 59, Caversham Road, London, N.W.
MAJOR, ALBERT, 77, Clapham Road, London, N.W.
PAGB
218
:t18
21'
m
222
226
MEADE, MISS, Heywood, Ballinakill, Queen's County, Ireland.
ROBERTSON, MISS N., 63, Rosaville Road, Fulham, London, S.W.
SAMUEL, MRS., 33, Trebovir Road, South Kensington, London, S.W.
ANNUAL BUSINESS MEETING.
Owing to the absence of a quorum on the 28th ult., the necessary
business was informally gone through, an adjournment for its comple-
tion being held on the 4t.h inst., in accordance with Rule 15.
The chair was taken by Professor H. Sidgwick. He placed before
the Meeting the audited balance-sheet of the receipts and expenditure
of the Society during the year 1887, which appears on another page.
Mr. M. Theobald, as auditor, expressed his satisfaction at the care
with which the books were kept, but called attention to the excess of
the Society's liabilities over its assets at the close of the year. This, it
must be understood, is without taking any account of the value
of the library, or of the stock of the Proceedings. A statement
of the assets and liabilities was on the table. It appeared that the
deficiency would be to a considerable extent met by the saving conse-
quent on the removal of the rooms of the Society, by the change in the
place of ,holding the General Meetings, and in the probable expenditure
in printing during the current year.
The actual number of the Society has slightly diminished during the
year, mainly owing to the names of some who had become only nominal
members having been struck off the list. The effective strength of the
Society remains almost exactly what it was a year ago.
The nominations for seats on the Council being just sufficient to fill
S
Digitized by Google
214 Journal oj Society for Psychical Research. [Feb.. 1888.
the vacancies, the following were declared duly elected :-0. P. Bidder,
Esq., Q.C., Oliver Elton, Esq., A. T. Myers, Esq., M.D., C. Lockhart
Robertson, Esq., M.D., Professor H. Sidgwick, J. Herbert Stack, Esq.
This was formally done at the adjourned Meeting on the 4th.
. A conversation took place as to the means by which the general
interest of the members in the work of the Society might be extended
and increased. It was decided to issue a circular letter to the members
in reference to some of the points discussed.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held on the evening of January 28th, at
the Westminster Town Hall. Professor Sidgwick took the chair.
The Chairman, in opening the Meeting, spoke of the great and
irreparable loss which the Society had Buffered through the sudden
death of their President, Professor Balfour Stewart. It had been of
the greatest advantage to them that one bearing so high and un-
disputed a reputation as a physicist had been willing to lead and direct
their endeavours to penetrate the obscure region of psychical research.
Of the work that had been done under Balfour Stewart's leadership it
was not now the time to speak in detail:. but all who had watched his
management of ~eir affairs would agree that it was marked by three
characteristics :-it was thoroughly fearless, it was uniformly circum-
spect, and it was genuinely sympathetic. He believed it was only by
this combination of qualities that they cOltld hope to succeed in the
difficult task that they had undertaken: and it was because they could
hardly hope to find them agaiR combined in a President of Balfour
Stewart's scientific eminence that he had spoken of his loss as irreparable.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then communicated to the meeting two
"Remarkable instances of a.utomatic Dlessages," introducing them with
some remarks, of which the following is an abstract :-
I may begin by briefly reminding my audience of the position in
which our inquiry into Automatic Messages at present stands. First
of all,I tried to show that automatic writing, with planchette or pencil,
may often be automatic in the fll11est sense, as proceeding from a.
stratum of the writer's intelligence which forms no part of his conscious
life at the time. Next, I gave some cases where the automatic
messages have reproduced facts which were never in the writer's
conscious mind, but have apparently been transferred to his unconscious
mind from the mind of some other person, usually present in the room.
Of these telepathic messages the Newnham case was ·our leading
type. It next seemed needful to discuss the singular assumptions
of one or more definite personalities so common in automatic script,
Digitized by Google
Feb•• 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. 215
and which are by Spiritualists taken to imply the communication
of one or more definite spirits. By analogies drawn from dream!>,
from hypnotism, and from various morbid states, I showed that
such apparent duplications or splittings-up of personality may occur
Within the operation of a single mind, and need not be taken to imply
any extraneous agency. Next, extending the survey from writing to
other forms of automatism, I tried to show that these automatisms are
an active or motor form of hallucination; or, if it be preferred, that
hallucinations of the senses are a passive automatism. I mean by this
that in both classes of phenomena alike we have a message of some
kind originated in some unconscious stratum of our personality and then
rising into consciousness, whether as a vision or as an audition or on
the other hand as a movement. Thus it comes to much the same, thing
whether a man writes a message-not knowing what he is writing-or
whether he hears it, as though spoken, either within himself or outside
himself, but not by himself. All these forms of reception of a message
-vision, audition, movement, or a mere impression less defined though
often not. less distinct than any of these-may come interchangeably to
any percipient. And as soon as we thus look a.t these forms of message
in connection with each other, it at once occurs to us that writing need
not be the only form of motion through which the message from the
unconscious part of our being makes its way into our conscious life.
The tilts of a table, or other easily movable object, so familiar in
Spiritualistic circles and so much derided by the unbeliever who asks
" whether the spirits live in the table," are now seen to form a simple
modification of that automatic energy of which we have reviewed so
many other examples.
In thus speaking, I am for the time setting aside the question as to
raps, or as to movements in tables, &c., which the unconscious mus-
cular action of the sitters could not effect. Such movements, if
genuinely occurring, indicate the existence of some unexplained source
of physical energy, but they do not in themselves suffice to show that
such energy may not be developed in some unknown way from the
persons present. At any rate, the vast majority of table-tiltings occur
under conditions such that the muscles of the sitters might
have effected them, just as the muscles of the automatic writer
undoubtedly move the pencil. In the case of the tilts, then, as in the
case of the written messages, it is from the substance of the message,
not from the mere mode of its production, that we must form our
opinion as to its source. It ma.y be necessary to add that the
conventional ways of getting a message by tilts are two: Either
the inquirer slowly repeats the alphabet and the table tilts at the letter
required, or the table tilts out the letters by repeating its movement
8 2
Digitized by Google
216 JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1888.
wice for B, fh'e times for E, 20 times for T, &c., according to the
position of the letter in the alphabet. One marked tilt conventionally
signifies No, and three tilts Yes.
The cases which I am about to give differ from those previously
cited, not only in the fact that the messages .come through tilts of a
table, but in the nature of the intelligence apparently communicating.
In one of them, Mrs. Kirby's case,l we have apparently a message
proceeding from a living personage asleep at a great distance. In
the other case, here to be cited, we have the alleged communication of
a disembodied spirit. I need not say to readers of our Jou1'nal or
Proceedings that an interpretation of this latter kind must not, in our
view, be lightly accepted; and to some minds the singular coincidences
which I shall recount may seem explicable by chance alone. I have
been anxious, however, to cite the case in order to show how deeply
interesting are the problems involved, and to induce other informants,
if possible, to send me cases of a similar kind, should such exist.
MRS. FITZGERALD'S CASE.
For the following account J am indebted to Mrs. FitZGerald,
of 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde Park-square, W., and her son, Mr.
Desmond FitzGerald (at one time a member of the Council of the
Society for Psychical Research), to both of whom the cordial thanks of
our Society are due.2
Mrs. FitzGerald and her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Desmond FitzGerald,
have been for some years in the habit of sitting quietly together to
receive messages by slight tilts of a table. Mr. FitzGerald has
occasionally joined the group, but strangers have rarely been admitted,
and the communications have been throughout of a very private kind.
I was, therefore, especially grateful for the permission to be present at
one of these meetings (May 13th, 1886), and afterwards to print here
an abstract of so:ne of the cases in which messages admitting of a
definite test have been received by this group. The members of the
group, who are all Spiritualists, believe that they can recognise the
communicating spirit by certain indications, given by movements of the
table,which have never deceived them. They allege that although purely
frivolous and untrustworthy 'messages are sometimes given by
unrecognised spirits, the recognised communicants have never stated
anything false, nor shown any inconsistency. The three spirits that
will here be mentioned (whose true names, with particulars, have been
com~unicated to me) are a Mr. E., an intimate friend of Mrs.
1 This case will be printed on a future occasion.
S Mrs. FitzGerald has revised ~he abstract of her papers here given.
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1888.] JO'Urnal of Society for P8ychical Re8(J,o,rch. 217
FitzGerald's, Lord X. (a near connection, who died in 1870), and Lady
S. (her daughter, who died in 1858), through whom the bulk of the com-
munications formerly came, though now this spirit (I use throughout
the phraseology of the messages themselves) has passed into a sphere
too high to allow her to communicate.
Notes havo been taken throughout the whole course of sittings,
either during the sittings or at their close. The lnessages have been
awaited in a serious spirit, without impatience or interference, and
frequently the group, having met, has separated again at once, on being
informed that the occasion was in some way unsuitable; or, as it was
genera.lly phrased, that low or strange spirits threatened to assume
control. However we explain .the messages received, I think it
likely that this temper of mind has conduced to their reception; and
from this point of view there is an advantage in a. previous readiness
to attach high value to the expected communication. It is quite possible
that, if such messages do ever proceed from the spirits of the
dead, Spiritualists may be more likely than sceptics to receive them;
and it,therefore,seems tomeurgently important tha.t Spiritualists should
make constant and patient attempts of the kind-adding to their faith,
I need hardly say, the care and candour of which Mrs. FitzGerald's
group, 1 think, has given proof.
I cite one case in connection with each of the three communicating
spirits mentioned above.
I. Mr. E., when on his deathbed, sent for Mrs. FitzGerald to come
and see him. She visited him in his chambers in the Albany and said
farewell, he being then pa'3t hope, and his death expected at any
moment. He blessed her and promised to watch over her. Afterwards
his spirit was one of the habitual and most trusted communicants, and
Mrs. F. believed herself able to feel sure of his identity, when he came.
After many such messages she alluded one day to his death in the
Albany. "I did not die in the Albany" was tilted out. Shocked
at what seemed the intrusion of some lying spirit in the friend's
name, Mrs. F. solemnly repeated the question, "You died in the
Albany, did you not1" The ~swerwas an emphatic No. This was
repeated several times, and then Mrs. F. was so pained and bewil-
dered at the breakdown of her cherished belief in this spirit's
identity and trustworthiness that for a. considerable time she BOught no
further communication. She had no thought of testing the truth of
the message, as she considered that she absolutely knew that Mr. E. had
died in his chambers. It was not till BOme months later that a common
friend accidentally mentioned that Mr. E. had been removed from
the Albany at his own wish, when almost at the point of death,
with the idea that he would be better nursed in a private house.
Digitized by Google
218 JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1888.
It is deeply to be regretted that Mrs. F. did not inquire from the
communicating spirit where he had died. If the address had been
given the test would have been excellent. No further facts, it appears,
can now be got from Mr. E.'s spirit. The coincidence is therefore
reduced to a single fact; but that one fact is a striking one, and
cannot be said to have been in Mrs. FitzGerald's mind.
II. The second point is connected with Mrs. F.'s deceased
connection, Lord X. This spirit also came at intervals, and during the
winter 1872-3 mentioned, after a prolonged absence (from late in 1872
till May, 1873), that he had been with his son, the present Lord X., at
Malta. Mrs. F. had, as she believed, good reason to know
that Lord X. was in Scotland, and she set down this message also as
false-with less of a shock than in Mr. E.'s case, as this spirit had
communicated less frequently and intimately. Some time afterwards
a friend (whom Mrs. F. has again found, and who remembers the
circumstance) mentioned casually that she had seen in a society
journal that Lord X. was at Malta in his yacht. Mrs. F. believed
this, without seeking further corroboration, till May, 1886, when, at
my request, she wrote to Lord X.'s solicitors as to his whereabouts in
1872-3. The answer, which I have seen and copied, was as follows:-
"Lord X. went abroad in November, 1872, and returned about the end
of March, 1873. During his absence his address was Yacht --,
Corfu. There are no letters addressed to him at Malta, and we cannot
give the exact date when he was there." It seems, therefore, pretty
certain that the society paper was rightly informed, and that the
present Lord X. was actually at Malta about the time when his father's
spirit so asserted.
It deserves notice, as an instance of the characteristic bizarrerie of
these communications, that this spirit never once gave the title by
which they had known him best, nor the title which was his at death,
but generally his surname merely, which being a not very uncommon
one, did not in any way suggest him to their minds, so that they
puzzled for nearly three-quarters of an hour when it was first given.
III. The third case involves a name and date, which were certainly
unknown to the sitters. The question here is whether the coincidence
can have been due to chance. I prefer to give an abstract of the
written account in my possession, as the answers are intermixed with
religious matter-too sacred in the eyes of those who received it to be
quoted in a paper where the actual origin of these messages is still a
subject of discussion. Mrs. FitzGerald's deceased daughter, already
mentioned, is represented in messages purporting to come from her as .
carrying on beyond the grave the same work of befriending the friend-
less, which was hers on earth. Amongst other names none of them
Digitized by Google
J!'eb.,l888.] Journal of Society f01' Psychical Research. 219
accompanied with sufficient facts to be traceable, of spirits thus aided in
an upward struggle, the name of Mary Allen was given. "She died at
a Paddington hospital." "Which hospital, St. Mary's 1" " No, at the
Lock Hospital, at the age of 18, 16 years ago." This answer was given
in 1881. On inquiry at the Lock Hospital the following answer was
received :-" Mr. B. begs to inform Mrs. FitzGerald that a registry of
deaths is kept in this hospital, but that no person of the name of Mary
Allen has ever died here. A person named Mary Ann Allen was in
this hospital from March 10th, 1865, to March 24th, when she was
discharged at her own request, nearly cured."
On further inquiry the alleged Mary Allen said that she had given
the hospital as the best place where she could be traced-she having died
shortly after quitting the hospital at a small cottage, since destroyed,
belonging to a tailor named Gibbs, in Wells-street, Kilburn. No such
name or street appears in Kilburn in the Suburban Directory for
1866, but this proves nothing, as Kilburn was then a somewhat squalid
suburb, and some small streets are doubtless omitted, the Directory
not professing completeness. The Register of Deaths affords little
aid, as Mary Ann Allen is a common combination of names, some
eight or ten persons of that name dying in London annually, nor is it
by any means certain that the death of a poor woman of this kind
would be registered under the same name. Weare left, therefore, with
the coincidence of date, name, and sojourn at the Lock Hospital. It is
observable, moreover, that these alleged facts form part of a series of
messages which have maintained a consistent character over some 18
years or so, and have never, as I am informed, been discovered to be
false. Few of the communications, however, have admitted of any
definite proof or disproof.
In the present state of this inquiry it would, I think, be premature
to express, or even to form, any decided opinion as to the origin of
these messages. One strong argument against the Spiritualistic
hypothesis lies in the extreme paucity .of recorded cases where there is
any real evidence that facts havebeencommunicatedwhichwereunknown
to the sitters, and were in any way connected with deceased persons.
The exact force of this argument, however, depends on the number of
serious and persistent efforts (such as that which I havejust recounted)
which have been made to obtain communications of this kind. From
the vague expressions used by some Spiritualists, I had r..t one time
supposed that..such efforts were very numerous, and, therefore, that the
negative argument from their general ill-success was almost insuper-
able. But I have now seen reason to believe that the number of
persons who have hitherto used the care and patience requisite to make
their efforts of any value is in reality by no means large. There is,
220 Journal oJ Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1888.
therefore, the less reason to fix an assured limit to the results con-
ceivably attainable, if only I can persuade those who hear me to do
their utmost to put these stra.nge alleged possibilities to actual test.
Mr. Edmund Gurney followed with a paper on "Apparitions
occurring soon after Death." In most of the cases where persons
have professed to have seen or held communication with deceased
friends, there is nothing to distinguish the experience which they
describe from purely subjective hallucination. It must be remembered
that the very idea of purely subjective hallucinations of the senses of
sa.ne and healthy people is comparatively a novelty; before the days
of scientific psychology (notably through all the witch-period) every
fictitious appearance was held to have some objectiv.e-usually &
Satanic-basis We now know that the most definite and distinct
appearance, se '1 in "oaking and sober moments, may still be nothing
more than a projection of the percipient's own brain. And among
such appearances, some are practically sure to take the form of deceased
persons known to the percipient. In cases of this kind, there is no
coincidence with any external reality, such as we have held to constitute
a proof of an objective origin in the case of certain phantasms of the
living,. and very stringent conditions would ha"e to be fulfilled before
we should be justified in assigning to the phenomenon any cause
external to the percipient's own mind.
There is a curious point, however, which deserves very careful
notice; namely, tha.t a disproportionate number of these post-mortem
appearances follow closely after death. In cases where the fact of
the death is known to the percipient, this seems easily explicable;
because his thoughts may be supposed to have been emotionally
exercised with the subject. But we have a number of cases where the
fact of the death was unknown to the percipient at the time of his
experiences. Many of these-those, namely, when the interval after
death was under 12 hours-were published in P/U1/ntaBms of tl~ Living
-on the hypothesis that the impression was actually conveyed to the
percipient at the moment or before the moment of the death, but that
it had remained latent in his mind, and had only after an interval
emerged into consciousness and projected itself in sensory form. But
this is only a hypothesis-one resting on a certain amount of evidence
and needing careful consideration, but by no means to be assumed as
certain. And there are other cases, where the interval between the
death and the a.ppearance was longer, to which the hypothesis of
latency seems decidedly inapplicable. It seems, therefore, that the
alternative hypothesis-that the condition of the phenomenon on the
agent's side (be it psychical or physical) is one which only comes into
existence at a distinct interval after death, and that the percipient
Digitized by Google
Feb., 11188.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 221
really is impressed at the moment, and not before the moment, when
he is conscious of the impression-is one that must be steadily kept
in view.
The cases where the appearance or impression shortly followed the
death (like all other cases where the percipient of a phantasm has
recognised in it some dead person) fall under two heads, which we may
distinguish as the perBooal and the local. That is to say, the experience
either befalls some person who has been linked with the deceased by
close ties; or iii befalls some one in a. place in which the deceased, when
alive, was strongly interested. (The remainder of the paper was
occupied with the reading and brief discussion of some cases of both
classes, most of which have already appeared in the Jowrnal.)
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meetingof the Council was held on the 28th ofJanuary, Professor
Sidgwick taking the Chair, and an interim Meeting was held on the
4th of February, for the formal completion of some of the business.
At one or both of these Meetings the following Members were
present :-Professor H. Sidgwick, and Messrs. Edmund Gurney, F. W.
H. Myers, H. Arthur Smith, and J. Herbert Stack.
The Minutes of the Meeting on the 2nd of December were read
and signed as correct.
The Council was informed of the result of lihe Annual Business
Meeting as reported above.
The following were unanimously elected officers of the Society for
the ensuing year :-President, Professor H. Sidgwick; Hon. Treasurer,
H. Arthur Smith, Esq.; Hon. Secretary, Edmund Gurney, Esq.
The following Committees were appointed, with power to add to
their number:-
COMMITTEE ·oFREFERENCE.-Professor Adams, Professor Barrett,
Mr. Edmund Gurney, Professor Lodge, Lord Rayleigh, Dr. C. Lockhart
Robertson, Professor Sidgwick, Professor Thomson, and Mr. J. Venn.
LITERARY COMMITTEE.-Messrs; Edmund Gurney, F. W. H. Myers,
Frank Podmore, Professor Sidgwick, and Mrs. H. Sidgwick.1 .
LIBRARY COMMITTEE.-Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
HOUSE AND FINANCE COMMITTEE.-Messrs. H. Arthur Smith, J.
Herbert Stack, and Major G. L. Le M. Taylor.
The lists of the Corresponding Members and of the Honorary
Associates of the Society were read over; and the majority were re-
elected for the ensuing year.
Eight new Associates, whose names.Uld addresses are given on a
preceding page, wert' elected.
Digitized by Google
222 Journal of Society fO"t' Psychical Resea?·ch. [Fp.b., 1888.
A Cash Account for the month of December was presented in the
usual form, as well as the audited st&tement of receipts and expendi-
ture for 1887, which had previously been before the Annual Business
Meeting. This was referred to the Finance Committee, who were
requested to prepare an estimate of receipts and expenditure for the
current year.
It was agreed that a General Meeting should be held the second
week in April. [Friday, the 13th, was subsequently fixed on.]
The next meeting of the Council will be on Friday, the 2nd of
March, at 4.30 p.m.
RECENT EXPERIMENTS BY M. CHARLES RICHET ON
TELEPATHIC HYPNOTISl\1.1
The phenomena of Telepathic Hypnotism or sommeil adistance have
been especially studied in the case of a subject, Madame B., while she
has been living in Havre. Thefirst record of these observations was
made by Professor Pierre Janet in Bulletins de la Societe de Psycho-
logie Physiologique, 181$5, Tome L,p. 24, and Tome II. (1886), p. 76.
Some further experiments made by Mr. F. W. H. :Myers at Havre in
April, 1886, are detailed in his paper on " Telepathic Hypnotism" in
Proceedings ofthe Societyfor Psychical Research, X., 126 (October, 1886),
and the large proportion of successes obtained on the whole under very
careful observation attracted considerable attention to the experiments.
In December, 1886, Madame B. came to stay with M. X. in Paris,
and in January, 1887, M. Charles Richet had full opportunities
of testing the effects which he could himself produce at a distance,
when the conditions were entirely under his own control. The
results he obtained. he has published in RevU8 de l'Hypnotisme,
February 1st, 1888, pp. 225-240, and they contain so much that is of
high interest and importance that it would seem appropriate to
reproduce them here in resume.
When Madame B. had come to M. X.'s house in Paris, December
28th, 1886, M. Richet thought it best to begin by hypnotising her in the
ordinary fashion for 13 days in succession before trying any telepathic
experiments. She was a good subject, and full control was easily
gained. He hypnotised her, as a rule, in the afternoon, some time between
3.30 and 6.30, and kept her asleep for several hours. The house where she
was living was about half-a-mile from his own.
EXPERIMENT I.-On Ja.nuary 12th he went out towards M. X.'s
house at 9.10 a.m. with the intention of hypnotising Madame B. before
1 A brief account of these experiments was given by M. Richet himself
in the Journal for October, 1887.
Feb.,I888.] Jo'Umal of Society for Psychical hsearch. 223
he saw her. He had told no one of his intention. On reaching her room,
at 9.30 a.m., he found her awake, said he wanted to speak to M. X.,
and went out with him. In the afternoon when he was with Madame
B. and had hypnotised her as usual, she said she had felt tired
all day, and added, without; any suggestion on his part, that she began
to feel sleepy 20 minutes before he came in the morning, and that
her drowsiness was because he had been thinking of it as he came. This was
not a success inasmuch as she had not gone to sleep,and her remark may pos-
sibly have been suggested by seeing him at such an unusual hour, but there
was some encouragement to be drawn from it.
EXPERIMENT n.-He thought it best to draw lots to settle the day and
hourof his experiments; this fixed the next experiment for Friday, January
14th, 3 p.m. On coming out of his physiological laboratory about &mile
from Ma.da.me B., at 3.10 p.ID., he turned his attention to putting her to sleep
until 3.45. He then went into the house, found she was out a.nd had been
out for an hour, and waited for her return. She returned at 3.51 and said
to C., who opened the door, before she knew of M. Richet's presence
in the house, •• I can't get on: my legs are trembling so." She was then
told M. Richet was there, but there was nothing surprising in that, for it
was his usual time for a visit. He put her to sleep as usual and then she
told him, without any questions asked, that 20 minutes before she had
got home she felt very uncomfortable, could not tell what she was looking
at in a shop, and turned quickly to come hume in fear she would fall and be
run over, her legs were so unsteady. It was not like anything else she had
felt. On the whole this experiment deserves to be cOllsidered as only a.
partial failure.
EXPBRIMENT IlL-He had given Madame B. almost distinctly to
understand that he would not hypnotise her 011 Saturda.y, January 15th.
However, when he got home he changed his mind amI made the attempt.
from ILl to 11.8 a..m. He reached M. X.'s house at 12.28 p.m., and
on inquiry lesrnt that Madame B. had been in a sleepy state, of which
she could recollect very little, from 11.5 a.m. up:;o noon. It was in fact a.
partial but not perfect success.
EXPERIMENr IV.-On Monday, January 17th, &n attempt made from
11.51 a.m. to 12.4 p.m. produced no result at all, either iu action at the
time or in description under subsequent hypnotism. Madame B. had
had a bad night and was not feeling well.
ExpERIMENr V.-un Tuesday, January18th, another attemptfrom 11.15
to 11.25 a.m. produced no result. M. Richet's attention was a good deal
disturbed when he had been trying to concentrate it.
ExpBRIMENT VI.-On Wednesday, January 19th, an attempt was made
from 9.11 to 9.26 a.m. ; and during the day, from 1.15 to 1.40 p.m., M.
Richet talked over his experiment with a friend and showed him how he set
about it. He went to M. X.'s house at 5.10 p.m. and found Madame
B. in a somnambulic state. She told him that whenshe was dressing in the
morning she felt a sudden headache. She finished dressing and went down-
atairs, but the headache go worse and she went back to her room and lay on
Digitized by Google
224 JO'U'r'IUll of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1888.
her bed. From the evidence of the other members of the household she muat
have gone downstairs about 9.20, and it is likely the headache began about
9.13 a.m. She wa.a found at noon lying on her bed, saying she was tired and
could not manage to go down. This was the first time such a thing had
happened to her in Paria, and they were surprised to see her come down
at 1.35 p.m. in a somnambulic state. She made her excuse by sayingM. Richet
had put her to sleep at 1.30 and had ordered her downstairs at 1.35. She
lay asleep during the afternoon ou a sofa, saying she had orders to wait for
him. This was a partial succeaa; she had felt some influence when he first
tried to act on her at 9.11 a.m., and she had passed into a somnambulicstate
a.t 1.35, when he Wlia showing his method of procedure to his friend.
ExpERnlENTVII.-This was on the whole the most successful experi-
ment. On Friday, January 21st, he wa.a very busy and did not reaoh M.
X.'s house till 6.10 p.m. He found Madame B. tired, and as he was in
a. hurry he said he would not put her to sleep that day. At the time
he spoke he genuinely meant what he said, and Madame B. took him as
speaking in good faith, for she was a little annoyed and saidthat ifhe did not
want her she would go home the day after to-morrow. After she had left
the room the idea struck him that he would try to put her to sleep tele-
pathically nevertheless. He pretended to go out, slammed the front door,
and slipped noiselesaly into the drawing-room, which wa.a separated from
Madame B. by the hall and the dining-room. He told Madame X. his
secret but ordered her not to speak on any account to Madame B. or to
C., and not to allow them to see her. From 6.20 p.m. onwards he tried
.to induce sleep in Madame B. at a distance. A.t 6.25 he heard her go
upstairs; at &.34 he requested Madame X. to tell C. to aalr Madame
B. to come downstairs. C. had no idea he was not gone. At 6.38
Madame B. came down and went into the kitchen. From 6.42 to
6.56 M. Richet concentrated his attention again on putting her to sleep.
About 6.45 Madame B., when talking to C. in the kitchen, said she felt
sleepy and tremulous. To avoid sleep she put her hands into cold
water, a proceeding she had on some previous occasions found effective;
but this time it was not adequate, and after five minutes she lay down on
the kitchen table, and Madame X. whl) came into the kitchen for me
:first time at 6.52, found her there in a somnambulic sleep. M. ltichet
followed at 6.55 and she said to him, "Why have you not waited Y I was
just coming into the drawing-room because you were calling me Y" This was
to M. Richet the most valuable and convincing of the experiments. Madame
X., who was the only person who knew of his presence, had not seen
Madame B. from 6.20 to 6.52; she had spoken once to C., but had
Itiven herno clue whatever. The weak points in the experiment were that
M. Richet had on all the other days but this been in the habit of hypnotis-
ing Madame B. at various times between 3.30 and 6.30, and that it was
eonceivable she might have come to know of his presence by some unex-
plained means.
ExPBRnIENT VIII.-On Saturday and Sunday, January 22nd and 23rd,
no attempt at telepathic hypnotism was made, and M. Riohet found her
wide awake when he called. On Monday, 24th, he resolved to try again, and
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1888.1 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 225
tho time detennined by lot was 2 p.m. That happened to be a particularly
inconveruent time, and one when she would have very little expectation of
seeing him. From 1.38 to 1.50 p.m. he gave his thoughts to it; at
2.5 he reached Madame X.'s house, entered quietly with a latch-key, and
asked Madame X. to look for Madame B. She was found in light
lomnambulic sleep in the workroom. From 2.5 to 2.15 he tried to
put her to sleep more deeply, without succeBl. At 2.15 Madame X. brought
her intO the drawing-room with her eyes shut, stumbling over the pieces of
furniture; M. Richot watched her from a small back room adjacent for five
minutes, trying to induce her to come to him, but she sat where Madame
X. had placed her and did not move. At :t20 he came out and spoke to her,
and she said she had been put to sleep by him at 1.20. That was before his
attempt had begun, but there was good reason to think her time inaccurate.
She had gono into the workroom at 1 p.m. to mend a stocking, and when
she was waked she admitted that the amount of wurk she had done must
have taken her three-quarters of an hour. If she had gone to sleep at 1.45
that would have coincided with his attempt to influence her. The ex-
periment on thewhole was a partial succeB8. but incomplete inasmuch as he
could not attract her to the small back room where he was, and that her
somnambulic sleep was not nearly so deep as was usually produced when
he was in contact with her.
ExPBRIMENT IX.-On Tuesday, January 25th, he made no trial from a
distance, but called at M. x.'s house at 3 p.m., and found Madame
B. in 80mnambulic sleep of an abnormal type. She did not answer him
at first or Madame X. Her eyes were half shut and fixed constantly on
the back of a gold watch which had been given to her the day before. When
he had touched her forehead and closed her eyes she said that it was the'
watch which had put her to sleop, and begged to be forbidden to look at it
in future. At 6.50 he waked her, said good-bye, and pretended to go away,
but in reality stayed and tried to put her to sleep from 6.55 to 7.10. This
produced no perceptible result. The condition which fullowed upon gazing at
the back of the gold watch was like that which Braid has described as con-
sequent on fixing the eyes on a bright object.
Two other experiments were made by M. Pierre janet in M. Richet's
presence at Havre on Madame B. ill September, 1886, and have not
hitherto been published. In the first, when lunching together at noon, they
agreed that M. Janet should put Madame B. to sleep at about 3.30
p.m. He was more than half-a-mile from Madame B., and made the
attempt from 3.33 to 3.45. They went together to her house, which they
reached at 4 p.m., and found her hypnotised. She said to M. Janet, " You
put me to sleep at half-past three "; which was nea.rly accurate. The
second trial was next day, from 3 to 3.12 p.m. M. Richet went alone to the
house at 4 p.m. and found her asleep, and learnt from Mademoiselle Gibert
that she had been awake at 3 p.m., and was probably asleep about 3.15
or 3.20.
This series of observations M. Richet wishes to subject to strict criticism.
The hypothesis of roZuntary deception by Madamo B. he rejects as re-
ceiving no support from the long watching and examination by M. Janet,
Digitized by Google
226 JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1888.
M. Gibert, M. X., and himself. It is at any rat~ as certain as the
bOlla jidu of M. J met, M. Gibert, and himself. That expectant attention
or auto-suggestion might produce BUch results he fully admits, but contends
that pre,-ious knowledge of the dayand hour would be necessary for that, and
that such knowledge was impoBBible in the cases he counts as BucceSBful. A
companson of the times adopted by the operator and the times of the sleep
effected shows that on an average the effect followed about 10 minutes after
the beginning of the distant attempt. It is interesting to observe that in the
10 cases ill which M. Janet can claim similar effects the average interval
has been nine minutes.
He suggests four po8Iible hypotheses of explanation:-
(1) Chance. (2) Deliberate cheating. (3) Expectant attention.
(4) A real telepathic influence.
As to chance, he remarks that in all the 22 cases of BucceBB that
he and M. Pierre Janet together have met with the sleep does not precede
but follows the attempted influence. The chance against that would be the
8ame as against tossing "heads" 25 times running, viz. :-500,000
to one. The facts, however, may perhaps be regarded as not so absolutely
certain as to warrant this application of the calculus of probabilities. Sup-
posing it might be assumed that the choice of a time for 8Omnambulio
sleep must be taken between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., this would give about
21 periods of 25 minutes each. It would then be 21 to one against t.he
chance that his attempt would coincide within 25 minutes of Madame
B.'s sleep. Now, out of nine trials he had six successes. The probability
against that by chance would be 500,000to one. That isabout the same chance,
says M. Richet, as that I shall die in the next 10 minutes, and does not de-
serve any attention; the interesting point is the accuracy of the ex-
periments.
The hypothesis of deliberate cheating may be diamiaaed for the reasons
previously given.
The hypothesis of expectant attention needs very careful consideration.
That no previous hint should be given such as a hypnotised person may catch
requires minute care. M. Richet feela this strongly; he hopes and believes
he has avoided these difficultiea, but he cannot be absolutely certain. Thoso
who can be absolutely certa.in of what they say are very lucky men. If he
were one of them this question of telepathic hypnotism would be now
decided. But taking thinga as he is obliged to take them, he would give his
verdict that either his observations h"ve been very incomplete and very un-
trustworthy or else thero is really such a thing as telepathic action. This is
the conclusion of his reason, but it is not sufficiently in aecord with his
general habit of thought to be as yet received as a mnl faith. Still, why
should action at a distance be so difficult a hypothesis 7 Is it not'the hypo-
thesis of gravity and of magnetism 7 We are 80 familiar with thom that ...8
think them easy, but for all that we do not understand them. In this
matter of telepathy we have no other hypothesis open to us, but we need
more experiments to drive conviction home.
A.T.M.
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1888.J Jou/rnal oj Society for P8ychical Re8earch. 227
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
DEAR SIR,-In the January number of the Society for Psychical Research
Journal. Mr. George G. Beazleymentions that it is desirable I should give some
further clues to the modus operandi of my slate·writing performance described
by numerous witnesses in the Society for Psychical Research Proceedings,
Part XI.
The object of my paper referred to was to demonstrate what the testi-
mony of honest witnesses might be like under cert~in peculiar conditions,
and I had no intention of placing myself in the position of a public instructor
of legerdemain.
It seems to me (for reasons I referred to in the October Journal, 1887)
that it is undesirable to intrude this question further upon the readers of the
Society for Psychical Research literature; it may, however, interest
Mr. Beazley and uthers to know that for some time past I have contemplated
such a paper as they propose, and provided the publishers of a forthcoming
volume regard my contribution as being of sufficient public interest, I shall be
quite willing to make public many of my own methods and those of others. In
the event of their publication,I will see that due notice is given to all those whom
I think are likely to be interested in the subject. Up to the present time I
have been debarred from carrying out my intention, owing to circumstances
I need not detail here.-I am, yours truly,
S. J. DAVEY.
Bournemouth.
February 8th, 1888.
The following is the translation of an extract from a recent letter of Dr.
Liebeault, of Nancy, to Mr. Myers;-
" February 1st, 1888.
"We have-had, at six leagues distance from Nancy, some remarkable
facts-not noises merely, but objects thrown in a closed room, persons, or
rather one young girl,raisedfrom the ground and undressed in the dark,though
in the charge of several persons who were holding her. This happened at a
village on the frontier, Berzanges-la-Petite. The girl was brought to me, in
order that I might calm her nerves, which had been over-excited by the hidden
assaults of which she had been the object. M. Liegeois and I brought her into
a somnambulic state at the first sitting. She departcd, calmed, and they
promised to let us know if the persecution recommenced. It recommenced
in an intensified form, and they actually called in the police to protect the
girl, and the members of the force who were sent made a report which
eonfirmed the previous information. But no message was sent to us, for
fear that our coming should cause some expellse to the country people with
whom we should have lodged! "
o
cg
N·
"
Q.
~
C;
o
~
~
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDING SlBt DECBMBER, 1887.
WI
WI
00
llt.
f881.
Jan. I.-To Balance Invested in Consol8
" Do. iu hands of Treasurer ...
" Do." Secretary ..•
Dec. 31.-" Subscriptions:-
£ s. d.
63 0 0
6215 3
10 0 0
" Members
.. Associates
... 380 0 0
... 28815 0
" Life Subscription
"Donations ... ...
" Free Distribution }'und
" Sale of Publications :-
Per Trlibner & Co. (July 1886
"
to June 1881}... ...
" Secretary ...
" Rent-(Two upper :floors at 14,
Dean's Yard, 12 months to
Michaelmas 1887) ...
" Interest from Investment ...
" Sundry Receipts ... ...
6411 5
26 9 6
£ 8. d.
135 15 3
66815 0
10 10 0
51 2 1
610 0
91 011
55 0 0
11110
010 0
£1,021 1 .1
at:r.
1881. £ s. d.
Dec. 31.-By Literary Committee
" Library ... ... ... ...
.. Printing:-
Proceedings, Part X. ... ... 112 13 6
" Part XI.{on acct. of} 25 0 0
.. Part VI. (2nd edit.) 24 0 0
Journals, Nos. 33-3b anil Supple·
ment of 35 ... ... ... 19 4 6
Index and Title Page to Vol. II. 5 2 6
General 15 0 0
" Covers and Binding ...
" Journal (Early Nos. of} ...
" General Meetings ...
:: ~::::~i:'kxpen~s (~i~mbe~;;of C~~ncil)"
.. Salary to SecretarY (Sept. 1886 to Sept. 1887)
" Rent and Service (12 months to Michaelmas
1887) ... ... ... ... ... ...
" Housekeeptlr (2 months, 19, Buckingham·st.,)
.. FurnisbinE ... . . ... ... ...
.. Reading Room and Stationery ... ...
" Post-age (Secretary's) ...
., Gas and Coals ... ...
" General Expenses ...
" Balance Invested in Consols 63 0 0
" in bands of Treasurer 35 15 6
" Secretary 10 0 0
.. "
£ s. d.
11816 9
14 6 2
~
l
~
r
261 0
5 6
219
3411
1310
413
6 ~
~ l
o
130 0
o "ti
6 ~
o c.')
;;:..0
150 0 0
200
214 3
521
5612 0
1016 S
89121
108 15 6
~.
~
[
£i,021 1 1 'Sl
!"
I have audited the above account with the books of the Society and find it to agree, and I have seen vouchers for all payments. :..
81'4 JllIn;IA"',." l888. I
MOULL THBOBALD. F.e.A. •
