{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 8506","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n48_mar_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N48 March 1888","mylang":"de"}
No. XLVIII.-VoL. UL lIARcB. 1888.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Associates ..
Meeting of the Council . . .. . .
Further Cases of Automatic Writing..
Experiments in Hypnotism . . . . ..
Intempera.nce Cured by Hypnotic Suggestion
NEW ASSOCIATES.
BICKNELL, NORMAN L., Foxgrove, :8eckenham, Kent.
BIRKS, REV. EDWARD B., M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
EARLE, MRS. C. W., 5, Bryanston Square, London, W.
HOOK, REV. CECIL, M.A., Hook Memorial Vicarage, Leeds.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
PAGE
229
229
230
2S3
289
A Meet~g of the Council was held on the 2nd of March, at which
the following Members were present :-Professor H. Sidgwick (in the
chair), and Messrs. Edmund Gurney, F. W. H. Myers, and H. Arthur
Smith.
The minu~s of the previous Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Four new Associates, whose names and addresses are given above,
were elected.
Two presents to the Library were on the table, for which thanks
were awarded to the donors.
Cash accounts were presented in the usual form for the months of
January and February.
These included donations from Miss Bertha Porter of £5; and from
Mrs. Russell Gurney of £2 18s. (In sending her subscription of
£2 2s., Mrs. Gurney had forwarded a cheque for £5.) They had been
duly acknowledged with thanks.
The House and Finance Committee presented a report stating that
they had carefully gone through an estimate of receipts, and a scheme
of expenditure for the current year, which they submitted to the
Council. If the anticipated income is realised, and the proposed
expenditure carried out, the deficiency of current assets over
liabilities will be extinguished at the close of the year. With some
slight modification in regard to one or two items, the report was
adopted.
T
Digitized by Google
230 Journal 0/ Society /0'1' Psychical Research. [Mar., 1888.
Having regard to the pressure upon the finances of the Society, it
was agreed that the minute passed on the 13th of February, 1885,
relative to the expenses of Members of the Committee of Reference in
attending certain Council Meetings (see Journal,V01. I., p. 260),should be
rescinded. It was, however, felt that the position occupied by Professor
Barrett, as a Founder of the Society, and as residing in Ireland, was an
exceptional one, and that the minute should be retained in his case, as
a special exception.
The next Meeting of the Council will be on Friday, the 13th of
A pril, the day fixed for the General Meeting, at 4.30 p.m.
FURTHER CASES OF AUTOMATIC WRITING.
A few more cases of automatic writing should, perhaps, from time
to time be submitted to the readers of the Journal, not necessarily on
account of any great intrinsic importance in most of them, but rather
to help in keeping alive an interest in the subject, and a willingness to
make experiments. I continue to feel disappointed at what seems the
indifference of the Spiritualistic body to this class of experiment,-so
eminently interesting, one would have supposed, to those who start from
the belief that a mind external to the writer's is concerned in the replies
thus given. Hardly any record of such messages at present appears
in the Spiritualistic papers,-beyond the mere commonplaces, reflecting
the writer's attitude of mind, which so many persons can obtain almost
at will. A few good cases, however, have been sent to me, for
which I Il.Ill extremely grateful. Two of the best of these were
read at the last meeting of the Society for Psychical Research.
Meantime I must continue to rely mainly on the kindness of
those readers who may be willing t@ make an attempt at automatic
writing in response to my appeal. Records thus obtained, even if not
individually very strikine;, have the advantage of freedom from pre-
possession; and in so obscure an inquiry we must collate many cases,
some of them apparently trifling, before we can expect to see our way.
1. In the first place, a few more details may be given with regard
to the" Schiller Case." (Proceedings, XI., p. 216, sqq.). Mr. F. C. S.
Schiller writes from Oxford, September 18th, 1887: "I have lately
succeeded in tracing some more of planchette's productions; in this case
some of ' Irktomar's' Provengal. I happened to look up Boucoiran's
Dictionary oj French Dialects, and found s.v.' Goumet,'-' Gilet,-
voir boumbet,'-and under the latter the following quotation
, La blodo de telo cirado
Am Boun boumbet de tafetas.'
Now planchette wrote 'Goumet de telo arciado ;' which is, I think "
Mar.,lI!l!8.] Journal of Society for Psycliical1le8earcli. 231
distinct reminiscence of the above; goumet being substituted for its
equivalent boumbet, and cirado having its letters transposed. The
other couplet which we could make out by ordinary French, I also
found to be linguistically correct." It happens that these mcssages
were written in my presence, and Mr. Schiller inquires whether I have
any knowledge of Provengal, which could have been transferred to Mr.
F. N. Schiller's mind (for whose own ignorance, see Proceedings, XL,
223); but I was quite equally ignorant, and when I saw the words
goumet de tela arciado written, I certainly had no idea of any possible
meaning to them.
II. I shall next quote a lews entences from Mrs. Ellis, 40, Keppel-
street, w.e., who has long been in the habit of writing automatically, in
obedience to a strong impulse, though without belief in any agency
external to her own mind. Mrs. Ell~s has kindly allowed me to examine
much MS. of this kind, the production of which seemed almost forced
upon her, in the midst of assiduous literary work which might well
indispose her for needless writing. These MSS. contain much of the
usual hortatory matter, which the unconscious self always seems so
anxious to inflict upon us, and also a certain number of prophecies,
undoubtedly written before the event, and most of them fulfilled.
Several facts thus predicted were unexpected by the writer, and in
themselves improbable; but they are mostly foretold with a strange
oracular amhiguity, and Mrs. Ellis cannot feel certain that the coin-
cidences are beyond the .range of chance. The following extract from a
letter of November, 1887, describes the sensations felt during writing
-a point on which I should be glad to receive further communications.
"I find in reading Professor Richet's letter (on variations of
handwriting accompanying different imaginary personalities imposed
by hypnotic suggestion), that he speaks only of the automatic writing
of hypnotised persons. I have never written in a hypnotic state, being
not at all a good subject, but I havc come to the conclusion lately,
through noticing certain slight mental and physical peculiarities, whilst
the automatic writing is going on, that I must be more or less in an
abnormal or semi-hypnotised state, though how that state has
come about I cannot understand. I described to you the curious
twitching, restlessness, and slight muscular pain in the right
arm and hand which precedes the writing; also the sense of
nervous constriction of the throat, and swelling of the chest,
as I seem unable to breathe freely. But with this is an inability
to speak. I have tried repeatedly, and could only get the words
out in a fragmentary stupid fashion, like a person speaking half asleep.
I have tried over and over again to read a book while the writing was
going on, but found it was excessively painful-I might say torturing--
/1'>2
Digitized byuoogle
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mar.,ISi8.
and the writing then only consisted of confusedly-scrawled repeti-
tions. I could not comprehend a word I was reading, as It seemed as
if all the bra.in-power was dragging away to the automatic writing.. I
can write when my eyes are shut, but even then ~ get a worried feeling
that the words are running crookedly into each other; and the slightest
distraction stops the flow of the writing. A troubling recollection, no
matter how trifling, spoils it; it then becomes only the normal volun-
tary writing. I have noticed lately that at times when at work on my
regular 'copy' for the printers, my writing, especially if I am getting
wearied, changes into writing like some of the specimens of automatic
writing which I have shown you ;-never into the large scrawling
script, but into another style, a small hard formal writing. A
peculiarity of my normal composition, a tendency to tautology,
which gives me endless trouble, appears in the automatic writing in a
most intensified form.
"One thing more. As M. Richet speaks of the physical changes
in his subjects, I have observed there is a difference even of attitude
required by some of the automatic messages. With one especially, I musj;
sit up straighter, squarer, with my head held stiffly up, andfeet extended,
with the impression that a man is writing. Another, is a small, pale,
slanting, prim writing. I write very slowly and carefully, the pen just
gliding up and down in old-fashioned feminine writing. The impression
is that a lady is writing,-a woman whose style is old-fashioned,-
a neat, gentle, characterless sort of person. Of course, were I a
Spiritualist, I would tell you who the writer see1nB to be. But
'though I would fain believe in the prophetic quality of these messages,
yet I feel almost sure that all the phenomena can be explained by
the intelligence within."
It will be seen that in some points there is a close analogy between
this case a.nd the cases described by Mr. Gurney where the awakened
hypnotic subject manages with difficulty to carry on concurrently two
pe.rformances, involving difierent strata of his being. Just as Mr.
Gurney's subjects sometimes find it hard at the same time to read a book
aloud with their normal intelligence and to write out with their hypnotic
intelligence sentences which have been suggested to them in the trance
state ;-just as the piece of work which the primary consciousness is
performing presents itself to the secondary consciousness as a vague and
painful disturbance intruded upon the secondary activity (Proceedings
XI., 319); even so does the attempted combination of primary and
secondary activities in Mrs. Ellis's case-as when she tries to read a
newspaper whilst writing automatically-present itself as a vague and
painful disturbance, referred to the whole tract of graphic energy, from
hand to brain. In each case we have a message from one stratum of the
Digitized by Google
Mar.,1888·1 Journal of Society f01' P8ychical Re8earch. 233
writer's psychical being conveyed to another stratum; and though in
one case the dislocation of psychical strata originates in a definitely
distinguishable layer of hypnotic personality, iii. the other case in some
vague conglomerate of irregularly-fused impulses or conceptions,-yet m
each case the conditions of o1ltcrop are approximately the same":'-in each
case similarly they teach the observer on the surface how little he
knows of the subjacent structure of the mind of man.
FrumERIe W. H. MYERS.
EXPERIMENTS IN HYPNOTISM.
(Abridged/rom the Original German.)
In Sphinx for December, 1887, appears a paper by Albert von
Notzing describing the experimerits of a special committee of the
Psychological Society in Munich, formed in May of the same year for
the investigation of transcendental psychical phenomena in the
hypnotic state, which paper was communicated to the Society on
September the 29th.
After a series of 40 sittings, attended in all by 75 witnesses (among
whom were Professors of various faculties), the committee felt itself in
a position to offer a preliminary Report, with the promise of a detailed
treatise on Thought-transference later on.
During the experiments the committee specially aimed at the con-
firmation of certain passages in the programme of the Psychological
Society, which, translated and abridged, run as follow!,! ;-
"By means of hypnotic reEearch, is opened out a wide and productive
field for the foundation of an experimental psychology, and we may now
look forward with ~reater confidence to the science (with s\'en more than
usual energy) taking that flight which every branch of learning has taken as
soon as it has become possible to pursue it experimentally. . • • .
"Above all, there is no profession, scientific or artistic, that could
not derive benefit from the investigation of this matter. . . . .
"The artist may believe that he can gain nothin~ ; but gestures and
mimicry inthe hypnotic state (not beingresponsive alone to extraneous ideas),
are expressive to a degree unattainable in the waking state, because they
are worked from wi:iliin outwards."
Taking into consideration the limited extent to which experimental
researches can be carried out by private individuals even in a scientific
spirit, and submitting to all tests for the exclusion of deception, the
committee confined its activity to as exact a verification as possible
of psychical facts-so far as they have not yet been generally ac-
knowledged. They refrained from considering the specialities of
hypnotism so thoroughly investigated by numerous French inquirers,
Digitized by Google
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mar.,l888~
only seeking to adduce proofs of their artisti.c importance, on account
of the many hostile attacks called forth by the passage cited above.
The experiments, of which the number amounted to 200 (excluding
15 per cent. of failures) are arranged in three groups:-
1. Supersensuous Suggestion (in the hypnotic state).
2. Experiments in the Substitution of the Senses.
3. Photographic Experiments.
I. SUPERSENSUOUS SUGGEilTION.
Many witnesses attended these trials, the majority asserting them-
selves convinced that thoughts and impulses were imparted to the
hypnotised subject without the intervention of the usual channels of
sense. The conditions under which they were carried out having been
made so widely known by publication in various periodicals, no repetition
was offered by the committee. It was, however, ~hought advisable to
mention that during the latter half of the sittings, experiments were
made for the express purpose of convincing sceptics, and differed from
those reported, inasmuch as :-(a) Simpler commands were given;
(b) All hints and assistance were stringently avoided.
II. EXPERIMENTS IN THE SUBSTITUTION OF THE SENSES.
In their 33rd sittin.g, the investigators were surprised a.t the ap-
pearance of a sort of clairvoyance or abnormal transposition or
substitution of the senses. By this is to be understood the perception
of external impressions which in the normal state would only reach
the central organ through the bodily sense. In the subject operated
upon by the committee (who in all cases was a girl called Lina), as soon
as the deep hypnotic stage was reached, the function!! of the eye were
executed by that portion of the head correspondipg to the anterior
fontanelle of infancy, situated at the junction of the sagittal and
coronal sutures.
The committee recommended to consideration the somewhat
a.nalogous case of response to light-stimulus in some blindfolded
animals, such as the frog and the earth-worm, and the anatomical and
embryological researches justifying the assertion of the skin being the
original seat of the whole organ of vision.
The fact appeared incontrovertible in the trials undertaken to
verify it. Fraulein Lina, when in the hypnotic state, was verbally com-
manded to read with her skin, and on being blindfolded and carefully
wa.tched by SJ. couple of witnesses, was given a book, the contents of
which were unknown to those present-a precautionary measure for
the exclusion of thought-transference. The order being given, she
opened it at hazard, and laid it on the portion of her head described
Digitized by Google
Mar., 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 235
above, and then, as she slowly drew the book along, she read the words
which happened to be exactly over the sensitive part, and which were
taken down by someone present. Her whole body was then convulsed,
she groaned deeply, and sometimes painfully, soon became fatigued, and
when about a line was read the book fell from her hand, and she sank
back in her chair breathing heavily. She was then, as a rule, induced
to sleep for some time, during which suggestions were made for the
prevention of unfavourable after effects, which mostly succeeded.
Still, on waking, she decllired th'l.t she felt as though that portion of
her head was open, and complained of considerable pressure there.
When hypnotised (specially in the deep or lethargic stage) she used
this faculty precisely as an eye, as long as her eyes were closed. She
examined those present by means of it, surveyed the objects which she
was mentally commanded to find, and indeed knelt down and laid her
head on the floor in order to observe a cushion there.
The fact that large print was preferred and more easily rcad than
small pointed to the co-operation of hindering physical factors, but it
was impossible to attribute this faculty to the mere refinement of the
sensory nerves, as in the extraordinary performances of the blind,
because the attempts at reading from smooth surfaces (photographed
writings or the position of the hands of a watch under the glass) were
as successful as any others. 'Writing was especially photographed by a
member of the society, and kept by one of the witnesses in a sealed
envelope until the decisive moment.
The idea that rays of light were il.ldispensable proved to be un-
founded, for, in most cases, the passages seen were in contact with the
skin, and at another time the investigations took place in complete
darkness.
Though unable to offer an acceptable explanation of the occur-
rel!-ce, the committee regarded it as a fact still looked upon as within
the boundaries of the mysterious, but one for which the recognition
and investigation of orthodox science should be demanded, on account
of the simplicity of the conditions of demonstration and the absolute
certitude of the results.
III. PHOTOGRAPHIC EXPERIMEN'fS.
With Fraulein Lina the phenomena of imitation automatique were
produced in a marked degree. No physical help was required in order
to bring about any desired position of the limbs; if such an attempt
was made, the fidelity of the representation was destroyed at once.
Mere suggestion, verbal or pictorial (especially it it had been repeated
several times), sufficed to produce the expression required, and the
bare command was enough to fix it on her face at the precise moment
236 JO'IJ/1"1Uil of Society for P8ychical Research. [Mar., 1888.
for taking the photograph. At the same time it rested entirely with
the subject to work out the impressed idea and represent it by
gesture.
During three sittings with Fraulein Lina, 20 representations were
obtained under the direction and in the studio of the artist Albert
Keller, Lieutenant Hohn, a member of the Psychological Society
acting as the photographer. Three of these are reproduced in the
December number of the Sphin:l:.
In the January number for this year of the same periodical is
published Dr. Carl du Prel's report on Supersensuous Thought-trans-
ference. communicated to the Psychological Society in Munich on the
14th of April, 1887.
Hypnotism, according to Dr. du Prel, has experienced the unusual
treatment at the hands of its earliest discoverers of having its scope
under-estimated. Only recently its curative effects, as practised by
Dr. Liebeault in Nancy for over 25 years, have been recognised by his
colleagues-and that half a century after the discoveries of Braid.
The experiments described took place in Dr. du Prel's study, his
wife, Herr VOlll. Notzing, Baron Hornstein, and he being present. A
young girl-Lina-was to be put into the hypnotic state, and was to
carry out orders, partly during it and pa.rtly after being awaked. The
fact of the passive obedience of hypnotised persons has long been
known, and thou~h one wakes from hypnotic sleep without any recol-
lection of what has taken place during it, nevertheless the illusion of
acting independently remains while fulfilling post-hypnotic commands
(even when the performance is contrary to social custom or even
morality). The phenomenon is of the greatest psychological interest,
provided always that the commands given during sleep vanish really
from the memory on waking.
It was decided that during the experiments no verbal commands
were to be given, only mental, and thus some light might be
thrown on the disputed point of the existence of thought.
transference without contact. To obviate the charge of possible
collusion between the hypnotiser (Herr von Notzing) and the
girl, the drawing up of the commands was intrusted to Dr. du Prel,
who wrote them on a tablet and allowed the hypnotiser silently to read
them. Herr von Notzing then sat down opposite the girl and concen-
trated his thoughts on the command. Lina was hypnotised and fell
asleep in three minutes, exhibiting the decisive proofs of the condition-
increased rate of pulse-beat and of respiration, insensibility to the
pricks of a needle on her arm, and the outward direction of the pupils
o! her eyes.
Fir,t Trial.-(Command written.)-She shall stretch out her left
Digitized by Google
Mar., 1888.] JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. 237
hand towards Baron Hornstein, and then strike his, which he shall put
forward to meet it.
ReBUlt.-Lina made several attempts to raise her left hand from
the arm of the chair, but it constantly fell back. At last she reached
it across the table towards Baron Hornstein, seized his, did not let it
go for some time, and then gave it a slight knock. This she repeated
automatically several times by tapping the Baron's hand on the table
where it lay.
SecO'll.d Trial.--,-(Command written.)-She shall rise, take the red
pamphlet from the desk, and hand it to Baron Hornstein, with a bow.
Result.-Lina, after some rambling talk, rose, took a red-covered
pamphlet from the desk, and handed it over the table to Baron
Hornstein, with a slight bow. The pamphlet was three times removed
from the table, and replaced on the desk; she fetched it each time,
and although then awake and conscious, gave it to the Baron, and
complained, "He takes it away."
As those present had satisfied themselves -on former evenings by
means of very complicated commands as to the transference of thought
in the hypnotic state, they now principally desired to investigate the
phenomenon of post-hypnotic commands.
Third Trial.-(Command written.)-o'n waking, she shall go to the
window, look out, and see a rainbow, many merry people, rockets, and
shooting stars, and describe it all.
On the chance of Herr von Notzing considering the production of a
post-hypnotic hallucination by means of menta1 suggestion too difficult
an alternative command was added: She shall see, in a picture brought
to her, the portrait of Dr. du Prel's little son. Of course, the picture
should not represent the child, the alteration would be due to post-
hypnotic illusion, but probably more likely to succeed than hallucina,..
lion, in which the picture would be entirely supplied by the girl. Herr
von Notzing, however, chose the former command, reserving the latter
for a future trial.
Result.-In this trial (unlike Nos. 1 and 2) it was thought advis-
able to ascertain before waking whether the impression had been
conveyed to Lina's mind. Herr von Notzing put the question:
"Which is the direction 1" She pointed towards the window. Being
satisfied, we impressed upon her that she should remain under
the commanded illusion till he said the word" Plate" (chosen by Dr.
du Prel), and then woke her. After some hesitation, she stepped to
the window, but described nothing, though her face bore a joyful
expression. Unfortunately her power of speech is somewhat lIDpaired,
and only on being asked what pleased her, she replied, "Merry." She
tapped with her finger, as though following the rhythm of music, and
Digitized by~oogIe
238 Journal of Society jor Psychical Research. [Mar., 1888.
invited those present to look out, but her descriptions were confined to
a mere mention of lights and people laughing. All at once she said,
"Buf comes into· my head." This was the pet name of Dr. duPrel's
boy. "If I did not know that he was in bed, I should think I saw
him there in the corner." Thinking that the second command might
have made an impression, a portrait of a lady of the 16th century was
handed to her. She at once perceived it as representing the boy, and
expressed her admiration of the likeness-comparing it with veritable
portraits of the child, greatly to their disadvantage.
Herr von Notzing then introduced the word" Plate" into the con-
~ersation-the sign for the cessation of the illusion. The picture was
again handed to the girl, when she commented on the lace cap, frill,
and chain of pearls. But the first post-hypnotic command still
lingered, she spoke of Bengal lights, mentioned the sbudent's song she
had heard, declared the people to be still shouting, and only after some
time pronounced it all over.
On Herr von Notzing saying the word "Omega," Lina leant ba.ck
and fell asleep, as had been arranged.
Fourth Trial.-(Command written.}-To-morrow at 3.30 she shall
come to Dr. du Prel's and ask for a cup of coffee. Questions were
then put to satisfy the investigators that the command had been trans-
ferred. Lina was wakened, but still had the picture of the child in
her mind. It had been Dr. du Prel's design to pretend that he was
going away for a week, in order to make the fulfilment of the com-
mand for the next day more difficult, but this was abandoned.
Result.-The following day the same company assembled, and at
3.30 the bell rang, and Lina, in some embarrassment, and with many
apologies, made her appearance. She had had an appointment with a
friend at that time, but had thought that she must come and see them,
she said. The request for coffee was only obtained after some rather
direct leading-up. Both illusion and hallucination of the previous day
remained to a certain extent. She spoke of the boy's portrait, and
decided that there must have been a birthday celebration.
Only one experiment has been omitted in the foregoing report.
The attempt to alter the pulse action from 100 to 60 for the length of
five minutes failed utterly.
On the whole the experiments were regarded as suc.cessful, and as
proving the following :-
1. Thought-transference without contact.
2. The fulfilment of post-hypnotic commands.
3. The imparting of post-hypnotic illusion.
4. The imparting of post-hypnotic hallucination-
the last mentioned leaving most to be desired.
Digitized by Google
Mar., 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 239
INTEMPERANCE OURED BY HYPNOTIC SUGGESTION
The following case has been furnished by the Rev. S. MacNaughton,
M. A., Preston. .
A brief notice of a most interesting case of removing "the drink crave ..
may perhaps encourage some of our less experienced hypnotists to direct
their attention to this phase of moral healing.
Mr. M. is between 40 and 45 years of age, and by no means a" sensitive
subject." For many years he took drink to such excess as to most seriously
impair his health, his life on one occasion bpingdespaired of by his medical
attendant. On several occasions he determined to give up drinking; but invari-
ably went back after a short period of abstinence. He was most anxious, and
at times even determined to reform, but all to no purpose. In March of last
year I hypnotised him, after repeated trials extended over a period of six
or seven weeks. The alcohol in the system no doubt made him a more
difficult subject than otherwise he would have been. Usually I have not
much difficulty in producing profound sleep; but in his case it was not
attained until after about 18 or 20 trials. After the eyes would firmly close
the hearing would be marvellously acute, the slightest noise, even stroking
the kittens, would disturb and distress him. Eventually hearing was over-
come; but still there was a further stage. When the subject recollects on
awaking what took place while he is in the sleep, he is not in the profoundest
sleep. This fact ought to be specially noted by beginners, if they would
ensure themselves against failure. Profound sleep being attained, I said,
" You are determined never again to taste beer or any kind of intoxicating
drink 7" He said, with whole-souled emphasis, "YES." I then said,
" You could not take it, even if it was put to your lips, it will be so bitter
and nauseous." And putting a glass of water to his lips, I said, "Just
try." Immediately the liquid touched his lips, he spat it out with manifeet
signs of extreme disgust, and immediately wiped the moisture from his lips.
Ten months have now elapsed. and he has never had the slightest desire
durinJ;( that period to taste any kind of strong drink.
This I consider an excellent test case. First, because Mr. M. was not a
" sensitive," but the very reverse, being one of the most difficult subjects to
hypnotise that I have had. Secendly, because he had repeatedly tried to
give up the drink, knowing that his life depended upon his abstinence, and
had always failed. Thirdly, because a sufficient period has now elapsed to
warrant the conclusion that the cure is permanent.
I have another case of about three months' standing, similar methods to
the above being used on the first trial. Ever sinee, to use the words of his
wife, this man is .. dead set" against the drink. I may add that the
craving for tobacco or any other narcotic may be removed by similar means.
Digitized by Go
240 Journal of Society 1M Psychical Research. [Mar., 1888.
The following sentence should have appeared as part of Mr. Morell
Theobald's certificate printed at the foot of the Receipts and Expendi-
ture Account in the last Jowrnal :-
"The outstanding debts on 31st December, 1887, were stated to
be £329 15s."
To prevent this statement from misleading the reader, it must be
added that at the date mentioned the Society's aBSets amounted to
£225, independently of the Library, valued two years ago at £250,
and of the unsold stock of ProC6eding8. More than two-thirds of the
outstanding debts have been paid off since the beginning of the year.
