{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 6183","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n49_apr_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N49 April 1888","mylang":"de"}
No. XLIX.-VOL. IU. APRIL, l888.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
OASES SUPPLIED TO THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
..Q:. 314
t
The following is a record, which we owe to Miss S. (a friend of the
Editor's), of various phenomena, obser\'ed by herself and others, in the
house, in a country village, where she and her mother reside. Before
the events recorded, Miss S. had no belief in the posllibility of such
phenomena, and she long resisted the idea of their having any abnormal
origin.
The undated accounts were a.ll written during the winter of 1887-8.
The dates on the left side of the page are not the dates of writing.
FOOTSTEPS, &0.
MIss S. writes:-
The first thing that struck us as peculiar about our house was hearing
footsteps in empty roOmB.
January 8th, 1885.·-We had been in the house about six montAs. My
mother and I were in the dining-room; there was one maid in the houseand
no one else. I was lying half asleep on the sofa. I heard someone walking
up and down in the room overhead, which was then a spare bedroom (now
a drawing-room). I was too sleepy at first to think it strange, though my
mother more than once tried to caJl my attention to it. At last IIhe roulled
me and said someone was in the house. The hells were ringing for Evensong,
so it must have been between half-past four and five. I got up and listened,
and I then noticed the footsteps were heavy, like a man's, and that they
went backwardsand forwards as if he were going from the washhand-stand to
the dreaaiDg-table and back again, not hurriedly, and not slowly; in fact, for
the moment, it gave one the impression someone was dreaaing for dinner. I
caJled the maid and we a.ll three heard the steps. We took our dog, a Skye-
terrier, knowing he would make a noise at a stranger, and went upstairs. I
put the dog iBto the room fint; he was quite quiet. I do not remember if
he seemed frightened, but I think he ran out again. The room was quite
empty. I was so certain someone must be there that I even looked in a
large cupboard, but that, too, was empty. Still, my mother was not
contented, but sent for the gardener to come and aee if anyone could be on
the roof. He said no one could be there ; the roof slants. As we went
into the room my mother said abe heard a sound like acrash of glaaa; there
was no broken glaaa anywhere.
The next time, as nearly as I can remember, was on the 22nd of January;
since then we have not kept much count.
Last winter a lady was staying with us. She caJled me into the dining-
room to ask who wu in the drawing-room. I heard the footsteps but I was
Digitized by Google
242 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1888.
nearly certam no one could be in there, as I had put two boxes on the step
leading to the drawing-room ready for the maid to take to the box-room.
However, to make sure, I went and looked, and the boxes had not been
moved.
At nights I have heard footsteps in the passage outside my bedroom (blue-
room).
I was sleeping in the green bedroom, one night last winter, when I heard
footsteps like a child, with bare feet, running acrosa a piet'.e of oilcloth
that goes from one door to another.
I cannot say how often I have heard footsteps at one time and another in
different parts of the house.
One afternoon I was quite alone in the houae. Miss Blencowe had come
to stay with me. I was obliged to leave her while I went into the village for
a few minutes. She was sitting in the pink sitting-room. She afterwards
told me she had heard someone walking about in the room overhead, which
was the green-room.
The other day our German maid, who knows nothing about the ghost, came
and told me someone had been walkingabout in my bedroom. I told her there
was no one in the house to do so, but she persisted in what she said.-F. S.
Account from EMILIE THORNE, a servant, as to whom Miss S. writes, •• Emilie
was the last of us to give in and acknowledge that she could not under-
stand what she saw and heard." She has never had abnormal
experiences in any other place.
I was in the passage upstairs. There waa no one elae in the houae but my
mistresa. I heard the hall door open and close, and heavy footsteps. Thinking
someone had got into the houae I ran downstairs, but found the hall door
locked.I went through the bottom of the house and found aU the doors locked_
It was impo88ible for anyone to have got into the houae. I then went and
told my miatreas.
In October,1887,I was aleeping in the green-room. A little girl was sleeping
with me; there was no one else in the houae. I was awoke by hearing some-
one walking about the room; the room shook with the footateps; I atarted up
thinking it was the childwalking in her aleep. The gas was up enough for me to
see around the room. Thereare two doors; I had locked themboth before going
to bed. I said, "Winnie, ia thatyou7" I then saw the child was asleep. lheard
the door leading into the bathroom creak, and saw it open and clole again.
I have often, both day and night, heard footstep. in the hall, drawing-
room, passage upstairs and green-room.
I was sitting in the pink-room last autumn, when both doors (it ia a
passage room) openedtwice. I got up and closed them, and they opened again.
My siater, Polly Trays, and I were sitting in the same room. Both doors
opened together. There was no wind. It was about half-past nine. The
houle was locked up for the night. There was no one in the house but my
sister'. baby. Polly said, "Who can that be walkingabout in t.he green-roemf'
I heard the footsteps, but knew no one could be in the konae.
I was writing a letter, one evening; the candle was on the table, the doors
and window were closed. There was no draught. The candle suddenly
went out.-EKn.m THORNE.
Digitized by Google
April, 1888.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. 243
Account from MRS. S.
I was in the bathroom; one door was closed, the otker open. 1 sa.w the
closed door open, and heard footsteps pas" through.
I was sitting in the dining-room. 1 was alone in the house ; everyone
had gone to church. I heard footsteps, and a child laugh and clap Its hands
just behind my chair.
I have seen the door leading from the green-room into the bathroom
open and close.
I have heard footsteps in the drawing-room, green-room.-C. A. M. S.
Account from MIss AUOBMUTZ, of 12, Montpellier Grove, Cheltenham.
March, 1888.
I was sitting ill the dining-room one morning a few days ago talking to
Emilie Thome. The only other person in the house was Miss S., who
was up in her room. 1 distinctly heard someone coming down the stairs
(whicli. Me just outside the dining-room door). Whoever came down stopped
outside the door for a second or two, then walked across the hall, and back
again upstairs. Of course, I thought it was Miss S., until she came in a
few minutes after, and told me she had only then come out of her room
for the first time.
1 have three or four times heard noises as of people walking up and down
the drawing-room, when in the room underneath, knowing that there was
nobody upstairs.
MISS S. continues:-
STRANGE NOISES, WHISPERINGS, &0., &0.
One n4tht, when I was sleeping in the green bedroom, I felt my bed,
which is a very large, heavy one, shake, and then I heard sometlling knock-
ing on it.
Another time I was awoke just as tho clock struck three by hearing a
loud noise, a8 if some heavy substance were being struck by a pibce of iron;
thero were about 25 blows. The next morning one of the maids told
Emilie that she had not been able to sleep since three o'clock, as
Miss Humble, .who slept over her, had been knocking about her iron
bedstead. Miss Humble, before I spoke. complained that she had been
disturbed, and described the sa.me kind of noise.
December 10th, 1887.-My mother and Emilie were both with me in the
blue bedroom; the other maid was in bed. We heard a door bang down-
stairs. A few minutes after, I went into the passa.ge and heard some one
crushing a piece of paper. I looked up and down, but could not see anyone.
Some nights ago there was so much noise downstairs. between 11 and 12,
that 1 lit a candle and went down to see, but all was quiet.
January 24th, 1888.-1 was cioming upstairs, and heard something coming
up after me. I thought it was one of the dogs, and kept looking first on ono
side and then on the other, but I could not see anything; I could only hear.
I was in the drawing-room (it was then my mother's bedroom), in the
winter ot 1885 or 1886, about eight o'clock one evening; the gas was lighted
enough for me to see round the room, when I heard a gruff voice behind me.
x 2
Digitized by Google
244 Journal of &ciety for Psychical Research. [April,1888.
1 could not distinguish the words, but thought it was the parrot mocking
someone she had heard ill the street. I turned quickly and there was no one.
I then remembered the parrot was downstairs. I remained a few minutes,
but heard nothing more.-F.S.
Account from EMILIB THORNE.
About the spring, three years ago, I was sitting sewing in the room that
is now a drawing-rooul. I heard some whispering behind my chair. I
jumped up to see what it was. I said, .. Is that you, ma'am 1" thinking it
must be my miatreaa, when I found I was alone. I felt nervous, so took my
work downstairs.
I was sitting working in the pink bedroom when something shook my
chair. Thinking it was the dog, I took no notice, and it happened again. I
then got up and looked for the dog, and found the room quite empty abd the
door shut. I sat down again, and heard )Vhispering and footsteps. I then
called my sister to sit with me.
I have heard noises as if the furniture were being knocked about, and
my name, Emilie, has been called several timea.-EMILIB THORNE.
Account from MIss AucHMUTz.
March,I888.
One night just after the clock had struck 12 (I was occupying Mias
S.'s room with her) we both heard the garden gate open and slam, and
then a good deal of talking, which appeared to be in the next room to us,
where Mrs. S. and Emilie Thorne were. We both thought they had
heard the noise and were looking out of their window to see what it was.
The talking went on for somo minutes. In the morning they told us they
had not talked at all. There was no one elae in the house. We heard the
gate wm again when the talking had ceased. I have never seen anything
supernatural, or heard anything either, until this month, when I have been
staying with Mrs. S. While I was saying my prayers one night in the
blue-room, which is the room next the drawing-room, where I heard the
walking about, I heard someone breathing hard, almost like snoring.-
HBLBN AuClnlUTz.
MIss S. continues:-
APP.A.lI.ITIONS, &C.
1 was coming down the p&BBage, one afternoon, about half-past four. I
I&W a fair·haired girl standing on the top of the stairs. It was dusk. I did
not notice her face, but supposed it to be the maid; she was dressed in a
greyish or mauve dress, such as would have been very common for servants
some years ago. AI we were in mourning at the time, I was surprised that
the girl should have had 011 a coloured dress when she knew it wo~d be
agaiDst our wish. In a minute or two I weDt downstairs and found the
maid, &I usual, in black ; nor had she been uplltairs.
In Ootober, 1886, I was, one afternoon, quite alone in the house. My
mother and the maids were out, but I sent for Miss Blencowe to come and
stay with me. Before she came I had locked the doors (three) leading into
me garden, leaving only the hall door unlocked. We were sitting in a little
room out of the hall, when I thought J heard some one walk across the hall.
Thinking i' must be the gardener, who, unable to get in at the back door, had.
Digitized by Google
ApriI,1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 245
come through to unfasten one of the pantry doors, I went out to make sure,
and, I suppose, to see what he wanted; but the hall was empty, and the
pantry door leading into the garden locked. I went back and sat down a
second, and a third time. I thought someone was in the house. I said to
my friend, "I must go upstairs and see if all be safe; I am afraid someone
is in the house." Miss Blencowe followed 'me. I went into the rooms,
closing the doors and windows as I went. When I came out of my own
room, I said to Miss Blencowe (without looking round), half in fun, "It must
be the ghost." I then went down the back stairs, and so back to our room
where we had been sitting. When we got there MlBB Blencowe said to me,
" What do you mean by saying it is the ghost 7" I answered, still half in
fun, "This house is haunted." Miss Blencowe said, "Is it haunted by a
woman dressed in mauve, and does she stand at the top of the stairs 7"
Wondering what she meant, but never thinking for a moment she had seen
anything, I said, "Yes, it is; but, why do you ask 7" She said, "I have
seen such a figure." She then went with me and showed me the place
where I had seen the girl some time before.
Account from MISS BLENCOWB, 37, Montpellier Terrace, Cheltenham.
N O1Jember 24th, 1887.
October lBt, 1886, 6 p.m., I was spending the afternoon with MiBB S.,
at . There were only ourselves in the house, Mrs. S. and
the maid being from home for a few hours. We were startled by the
banging of doors, BO much BO we thought we would go round the premises and
fasten the doors, even going into cellars to satisfy ourselves that all was safe.
We then returned to the kitchen and turned our attention to making some
cotree, but not finding all the necessary things, MiBB S. went up to her
room to fetch the store-room keys. Being quite dark, she lighted the gas, 1
having followed her, she left me in the room, going down by the back staircase
tothe kitchen. I called to her t.o know if I should turn the light out, and stood
between the door and the passage while' waiting for the reply.
I saw the figure of a young girl, dreBBed in a lilac print dress, about
lift. 3in. in height, standing on the top of the front stairs, looking in the
direction of where I stood. The principal thing I noticed about her was the
whiteness of the parting of her hair, and the peculiar colour of her gown.
I looked at her till she gradually faded away, not feeling the least bit
frightened, but only intensely cold and numb while she was visible.
After the disappearance of the figure, I went down and told Miss S.
of the occurrence. She then said it was one of the ghosts I had seen.
My second experience was on the evening of February19th,I887, between
the hours of eight and nine o'clock.
On this occasion there were 12 people present, including myself.
I was seated by the fireplace, Mrs. S. on the BOfa directly opposite, facing
the open door. A lady was sitting by her, and the dog ,Bruce was lying
at his mistress's feet.
One of the company was playing at the time, when all at once the dog
uttered a piercing shriek and rushed madly down the stairs into the hall.
Digitized by Google
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1888.
I, feeling the same coldness and numbness as before, turned my head,
and saw the figure of the girl within a few feet of where I was simng,
looking straight at me.
It remained for a second or so, then gradually disappeared. I went down
and asked Mrs. S. and the lady who had been sitting by her, if they
hsd seen anything, to which they replied in the negative.
MIss S. continues:-
December lOlli, 1887.-Not foeling well, I was lying in bed about half-
past eight in the morning. Emilie came into my room in a hurry and asked
what was the matter, as I was knocking about the furniture. I told her I was
not doing anything of the kind; as 1 was in bed 1 could not boo About 20
minutes passed and she came up again to know if I called, saying some one
had called her three times. Soon after, my mother came in to speak to me ;
there was no one else in the house bllt the German maid, and she was down-
stairs. In a few minutes Emilie ran back into my room, looking frightened,
and saying she had seen a figure standing on the top of the stairs, dressed in
white, which alie thought to be my mother till she heard her talking in my
room.-F. S.
Account from EMILIE THORNE.
I was in the hall, which is under the blue bedroom. I heard a knocking-
about, such as a chair banging on the floor. I went upstairs to see what W&B
wanted. Twice more 1heard the noises, but took no notice ; then th ree times
I hoard some one ca.ll Emilie. 1 went upstairs but no one had ca.lled. Going
up the back staircase, 1 went to my mistress's room. Not finding her there,
walked down the passage and,as 1 thought, saw her standing on the top olthe
stairs looking down. The figure was about my mistress's height (6ft. 3in.),
and dressed in light things. I did not notice her .very closely, for when I
heard voices in the blue bedroom 1 knew it was not my mistress I saw, and,
I got frightened and ran back into the bedroom.-ElIIILIE THORNE.
Account from MRs. S.
One Dlght 1 was awakened about 11 o'clock (I was then sleeping in
room over dining-room) by a voice calling "Mother." nelieving it to 1?e my
daughter's voice, I went to her room and listened outside her door. Hesring
nothing I went to the maids' room, and found them both asleep. I returned to
bed and was again roused by footsteps coming up the steps outside my room,
and immediately after heard "Mother" .repeated. I again got up and
without a candle proceeded again to my daughter's room. I opened the door,
keepin~ ~he handle in my hand, and asked "Did you call 1" She answered,
"No; yCJ)J. have woke me, why have you come 1 What time is it 7.. I
answered 11, and then left her. During the few minutes in my daughter's
room, I never left the handle of the door out of my hand.
MIss S. continues, with respect to the same occa.sion :-
A few seconds elapsed after I had asked what o'clock it was; time enough
for my mother to leave the room. She then-or someone like her-a
woman with dark hair, and wearing a red (what I believed to be a) dressing-
jacket, bent over me. The figure held a candle in her hand, and said,
" Won't you kiss me 1.. I had been lying with my face to the wall, but I
turned round, sat up, and kissed something which I quite believed toO be my
DigitiZ~d by Google
April, 1.888.] J owrnal Of Society' for Psychical Research. 247
mother. Since then my mother has again and again been roused.. Now she
does not come unleBB she hears my bell.
Last New Year's eve, December, 1887, my mother, Emilie, and I were in
the drawing-room putting up some brackets. Suddenly, Emilie ran to the
door saying someone was standing on the top of the stairs. I followed her,
but no one was to be seen. It would have been quite impoBBible for any
human being to have gone downstairs so quickly; we could see up the passage
and down the stairs.-F. S.
Account from EMILIE THORNE.
I was in the drawing-room a little after six on New Year's eve, and I saw
a figure dressed in light things (I thought it was the cook) standing on the
top of the stairs, looking down. She had her hand up beckoning me. I ran
to the door, but no one was to be seen. In that second no one could have
got out of sight.-EMiLm THORNE.
MIss S. continues:-
January, Sunday, 22nd, 1888.-1 was in the drawing-room about
11 o'clock in the evening. The door was open; our German maid was in bed
and my mother had gone into my bedroom. I heard Emilie come upstairs and
pause outside the door, and then go down the passage to her own
room. I did not look up. There was a screen between the door and myself ;
DOt a high screen. I was surprised Emilie did not come right into the room
and see if I wanted anything. Soon after, I went to bed, but, on looking out
of my window, I saw the reflection of gas, so went into the passage and saw
the light was left quite up ; the one on the top of the stairs. I turned it
out and went back to bed. The next morning Emilie mentioned that she was
coming into the drawing-room the previous evening, but that, as my mother
had croBBed the room and pushed the door to while she was there, she
supposed we wanted to be alone, and so had turned out the gas on the top of
the stairs and gone to bed. I told her my mother had not been in the room
when she came upstairs, but she kept repeating that someone had pushed to
the door while she was there; it did not seem to strike her for a moment
that she had seen one of the ghosts. I asked her what made her so certain
it was my mother, and she said because she had on her light dreBBing-gown.
My mother happened not to have on her light dressing-gown at all, but was·
in red ; besides, as I said before, she was in my bedroom at the time. The
dreBBing-gown is not uulike, in colour, the dress worn by the girl who stands
on the top ofthe stairs, and might easily be mistaken for it. It is strange
that Emilie turned out the gas and I found it up.-F. S.
Account from EMILIE THORNE.
I came upstairs, and was going into the drawing-room. I saw Miss FloBB
[Miss S.] but did not at first notice my mistreBB. Just then she (as I
thought) came and pushed to the door in my face. It was a figure in a
light garment. I did not notice the face. I felt quite certain it must be my
mistress, because there was no one else in the house it could be. I then
turned out the gas on the top of the stairs and went to bed. I am quite
certain I turned out the gas.
The following is another mention, written some weeks earlier, of two
of these experiences :-
Digitized by Google
248 Journal of Society /0'1' Psychical Resea!1'ch. [April, 1888.
On December 10th last I saw a figure dressed in light clothes standing
on the top of the stairs, and again last Saturday, at about 10 minutes put
six, I saw the fi~ure in the same place; then it had its hand raised.
Account of other ApparitioDB from EMILIE THORNE.
I was standing in the garden one Sunday afternoon, and, looking up to
the attic window, I saw a man, a dark, swarthy-looking man, with long
black whiskers; his coat was buttoned up tightly, and he was dressed like a
merchant sailor. I have often seen that man in the same place.
In September, 1887, Miss Blencowe came in one evening after church;
my sister Polly was in the pink bedroom. I heard the gate open and close with
a bang. Polly came down and asked me to come to bed. After MilS Blencowe
was gone I went upstairs. Polly said to me, •• Whata shame, Miss Blencowe's
sister waiting outside at this time of night, and dressed in white." I said,
" What do you mean 1Miss Blencowe's sister has not been outside." Polly
said, "I heard the gate open, and looking uut of the window saw someone
dressed in white, walking quickly up and down the garden; she then went
out of the lower garden gate. I then closed the window, but wondering if
she were gone, because then Miss Blencowe would be gone as well. I looked
out again, and saw her walk from our gate to the gate of the house on the
other side of the road. and there stand.
About be o'clock in the evening [very recently, but date is forgotten]
I thought I saw Miss Flo standing with her head. leaning against the dining-
room door. The figure had on a light dress, and her hair down. As I came
through the hall nearer to her, she vanished. The dining-room door was
closed at the time.-EMILIB THORNE.
Account of MARy TRAys,* sister of Emilie Thorne, sent to Miss S.
in February, 1884 :-
18, Claremont Street, Plymouth.
You asked me on your last letter to relate to you all that I saw that was
odd. When I was up with Emilie, the first thing I saw was in the garden
when Emilie was to church. It was like a man with a long, dark beard. [This
was in the middle of the day.] And one evening when Mias Blencowe came
rather late, Emilie went and left me upstairs. I heard the garden gate
open, and I went to the window, and I saw a white figure walk up and
down, and I was frightened. The strange footsteps Emilie, perhaps, can
l'elate to you better than I can write.-MARY TR.us.
MISS S. sends her Mother's account, dictated, as follows :-
My mother says :-" On the 29th of December, 1887, I was alone in the
house, except the German maid, who was downstairs. I was coming down the
attic stairs; my littleYorkshire-terrier Will.! in front of me. A girl with fair hair,
in a lilac dress, passed me ; ahe looked right into my face ; she was very pale,
and had something the matter with one of her eyes. The dog gave a howl,
and dashed down to the dining-room. By the time I got into the passage she
was gone. As I went down the stairs to the dining-room the German came
to ask if L had rung, as the bell had been pulled violently.
I trU coming down the pU&age some time ago. I saw a woman before
* As to this witness, we learn, on good authority, that she" might fancy
things," and her flvidence must be estimated accordingly.
Digitized by Google
April, 1888.1 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 249
me. I thought it was one of the maids ; she went into the blue bedroom. I
followed; but the room was empty. My little dog, a Skye-terrier, ran back
into thesitting-room, and jumped up on to a chair, where he sat shivering.
About the end of December, 1887, I was lying awake, when I saw a
woman, with brown hair hanging down her back. (My bedroom is a double
one, with curtains between.) She was standing, holding back one of the
cllJ'tains. She had on a slate-coloured silk dress and a red kind of opera
cloak. She remained three or four minutes."
Account sent to Miss S. by MISS HUMBLE, from 15, The Terrace,
Grosvenor Street, St. Heliers, Jersey.
Jarvuary 25th, 1888.
I send the account of what I saw at two separate times while we were
with you, but it is not very much I have to tell. The first time I sa.wanything
was one night (1 think in February), somewhere between 11 and 12
when I had been fast asleep, and woke up suddenly broad awake as if I had
been forced to do so. I noticed the fire still burning brightly, and was then
attracted by the figure of a woman standing close to me, and leaning against
the chimney-piece comer. I could hardly see the face, as it was turned from
me, but she had hair reaching halfway down her back, and seemed to be
dressed in a sort of loose Garibaldi body, and ordinary gathered skirt of a
greyish tint. I noticed all that at a glance, and even the burnish the fire-
light gave to the hair, which seemed of " light brown colour, and wavy. If
I had not been afraid of waking mother, I think I should have spoken, for I
did not feel afraid, but the figure vanished and did not reappear. The next
time was two days before we left, when I woke up suddenly, also to see, not
a woman, but, at the comer of the fireplace furthest from me, a very evil-
looking man dressed in what might be a white working suit. The eyes
were dark and fixed on me, and I own I was frightened,their expression was
so horrible, and I dared not look up again at once, and when I did he had
gone. But I could not forget it for soine days, and don't like to think of it
now. Those were the only times I ever saw anything, and I know for
certain that I was awake, and not dreaming I Mother heard the heavy
footsteps in the drawing-room when we knew nobody could be there, as the
doorway was barred. And I also heard the piano being played that Sunday
morning, as perhaps you may remember, when I thought it was Miss
Blencowe practising a chant, and on inquiry afterwards found no one had
been near the room at all. 1heard it distinctly as I walked along the passage,
and opened the door expecting to find someone at the piano, when to my
surprise the room was empty. I also heard that strange noise which woke
yourself and myself up one night, when it sounded like someone beating the
iron curtain-rod in your room with a broom-handle, and you said the noise
was dreadful, being so close to where you were.
Account sent to Miss S. by MRS. SEBPELL, of 152, King Street, Plymouth,
a former servant of Mrs. S.
I will give an account of what I saw and heard in the house a t -
88 near as I can. It was in the year 1885. I was stopping there for July and
August, but I cannot tell which month or what day of the month it was as I
took no notice at the time. I only know that Miss S. and I had been
Digitized by Google
250 Journal of Society fOT Psychical Research. [April, 1888.
sitting up rather late talking, and it must have been quite 12 o'clock when I
went to bed. How long I had been asleep I don't know, but the first thing
I remember was someone leaning over me and talking very softly. She (for
it was a woman's voice) seemed to be pleading with me to do something for
her, but I was too sleepy to know what it was. Then she asked me to kiss
her. I answered, then, "No, I won't." She gave a sigh, then-such a
sigh I shall never forget it. I was wide awake then, and sprang up in bed and
looked all round the room. I thought at first that some one had been playing
me a trick, but I am quite sure no one went out of the room, for there was
only one door leading out of it, and that was facing the foot of the bed, and
the room was quite light. I never saw it, for when I looked up it was gone,
nor did I have another visit from it while I was there. The next time I was
there, in February, 1886, I slept in the same room I had before, but the house
had been altered since I was there before, and this time there were two doors
in my rOODl, one exactly facing the other. The one I locked when I went to
bed, the other was only shut. I had been to sleep then, it seemed to me,
some time, when I woke with a start. I felt as if someone had given me a good
shake. It frightened me so I sprang straight up in bed, and standing quite
close to me was-well, I don't know whatit was-but the moat horrible, devilish
face. I could see nothing but the face and hands, which kept working as if
they were trying to get at me and something kept them back. I was so
frightened I did not dare to take my eyes off its face, and for a moment I did
not know what to do. Then the thought came into my mind to make tIie
sign of the cross and say some prayers. That had the effect, it vanished in a
second. Of course, the whole thing only lasted a moment, but it seemed
ages to me ; but the look of ba1H.ed rage I never shall forget. I did not go to
sleep again that night. That is all I really saw or heard during my stay in
the house. But there are two things I never could understand, one was the dog:
he would stand and stare into a corner and shake all over, and once or twice
I saw him go up the passage II.nd then run back again, jump on a chair, and
shake all over, and look quite frightened. The other was, that whether you
were reading or working you must keep looking behind you as if you
expected to see some one standing there.
MISS S. continues:-
LOUD NOISES.
January 31st.-Last night I was awoke by feeling my room shake. I
roused myself and heard someone walk across the room twice. I looked
about, but could not see anything; the steps seemed to be in the next room.
I then listened and heard voices. At first I thought my mother must be ill,
and it was one of the maids with her. I was going to get up and go in to her,
when I heard someone crying. I then satisfied myself it was not my
mother, but I thought it might be one of the ghosts. When I heard the
talking and walking about, and fancied something was the matter with my
mother, it made me feel so ill that I could not go to sleep for some time; 80
there is not the least doubt but that I was wide awake; besides, when I went
inro my mother's room, this morning, the first thing she asked me was if I had
been disturbed, as she had been roused by hearing a loud crash, as if a sack
Digitized by Google
April, 1888.J Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 251
of coals were being emptied. She also told me that she had not been out of
bed, nor had she spoken in the night.
Some tune ago, about two years, I think, I was roused by a loud crash
outside my door. A child was sleeping in a room over the drawing-room at
the time, and my idea was that she must have been walking in her sleep,
and fallen downstairs. For a minute I was afraid to open my door for fear I
should find her lying there. As I came out of my room mother and Emilie
came out of theirs. All was quite quiet. We went upstairs and found
Winnie sitting up in bed. What had startled us, I suppose, had startled her.
Once or twice in the daytime we have been disturbed by hearing a crash,
as if something had been broken.
Later, Ml88 S. adds :-
Constantly the doors shHoke as if someone had struck against them, or as
if something heavy had fallen in some part of the house. The piano is heard
at times.
Febrtw,ry 14th,I888.
The house is locked up for the night and Emilie is with my mother and
me. We have just been startled by a loud noise. I was at first afraid to
go out of tho room for fear someone had got into the house, for it seemed
as if someone had come in at the hall door and banged it. The room we are
in was shaken when the noise came. There have been two more noises.
March 28th, 1888.
Both last night and to-night, from eight to nine, I have been alone in
the house, the others being at church. There has been one noise after another.
Once or twice I thought someone had got into the house. To-night I was so
frightened I felt I must go out into the garden. Though I know there is some-
thing supernatural about the place at the time, the noises are so like those
made by living people, I cannot bring myself to believe it is not a living
person making them. I am terrified of thieves breaking in. The ghosts
might make as much noise as they liked, if I were certain at the time it was
only the ghosts. Sometimes weeks and weeks have passed without one
having noticed anything unusual.
THINGS LOST.
Last Easter we were having some private theatricals. A great deal of the
play depended on a rinlt I had to wear. Between the acts I went up to make
some alteration in my dress. Miss Blencowe WRS with me. I took off the
ring and laid it down. At the end of a few minutes, when I wanted it, it
was gone. Miss Blencowe and I hunted high and low, but it could not be
found, and I was obliged to wear another. The next morning, the first
thing, almost, that met my eyes was my ring lying on the dreasing-table. I
have IQst that ring again and again.
The Christmas before last I had some money sent me for the church. I
put it in two-shilling pieces in my purse. When I went to get it, one of the
two-shilling pieces was gone. Of course, I replaced it with another, and
sent it away. I then put the empty purse back in my pocket. After that day,
the dreas, which was an old velvet, was put away. The next day I had a
new purse given to me, so forgot all about myoid one. When we were
going to have the theatricals at Easter, it struck me the dreas might be made
Digitized by Google
..
252 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. rApril. 1888.
of 118e. Before altering it, Emilie turned out the pocket and brought me my
old purse. I opened it, to see if there were any papers inside it, and I found
a two-shi1lirur piece.
Just before Christmas, this year, I have again lost a two-shilling piece,
even more strangely. I had sent out for change for a sovereign. Both my
mother and' I counted the change. I laid the purse on the table beside me;
in the evening I missed the two-shilling piece. Once I had been out of the
room for a few minutes, but there was no one in the house to steal it. I have
at other times lost two-shilling pieces, but I have found them again.
I have lost several things at clliferent times, but they come back again.
February 13th, 1888.-A book my ,mother bought for a Christmas box
was lost on Christmas Eve, and since we h!l.ve hunted high and low for it.
This momipg Emilie went into one of the bedrooms. No one slecps there,
but we are constantly in and out as we keep a number of thiLgs in the room
that are in use. She found tho book lying on the bed. At present there is
no one in tJle house but my mother, Emilie and myself, as our German maid
has left; she has been gone BOme days.
TRB DOGS, &C.
Our little Skye-terrier has run in from the passage, shivering
allover, and the other day the other' little dog would not come
through the green bedroom, though both doors were open; one of
the maids had to go up for him.-F.S. [See p. 245, bottom.]
Account from EMILIE THORNE.
I was sitting working, one day; the dog was in a chair beside me; he
suddenly jumped off and began to howl. I took him out of the room, and,
after, he would not go back again, but remained shivering for BOme time. '
..Q 315
t
We have received the following case from the Oxford Phasmatological
Society.
(1) MRS. ALDERSON's Account.
My BOn and I were staying in town, Bonchurch (Isle of Wight), last
Eastel' vacation (1886). Our lodgings were quite close to the sea, and the
garden of our hOI18e abutted on the beach, and there were no trees or bushes
in it high enough to intercept our view. The evening of Easter Sunday waa
BO fine that when Miss Jowett (the landlady's daughter) brought in the lamp,
1 begged her not to pull down the blinds, and lay on the sofa looking out at
the sea, while my son was reading at the table. Owing to a letter I had just
received from my sister at home, stating that one of the servants had again
seen" the old lady." my thoughts had been directed towards ghosts and such
things. But I was not a little astonished when, on presently looking out 0
the window, I saw the figure of a woman standing at the edge of the verandah.
She appeared to be a broad woman, and not tall (Mrs. A. is tall), and to wear
an old·fashioned bonnet, and white gloves on her closed hands. As it was
dark the figure was only outlined against the sky, and I could not distinguish
any other details. It was, however, opaque, and notin any way transparent,
just as if it had been a real peraon. [See Note 1 below.] I looked at it for
Digitized by Google
April, 1888.] Journal of Society for P8ychical ReBp,o,rch. 253
some time, and then looked away. When, after a time, I looked again, the
woman's hands had disappeared behind what appeared to be a white marble
cross, with a little bit of tho top broken oft', and with a railing on one side
of the woman and the cross, such as one sometimes sees in graveyards.
After looking at this apparition, which remained motionless, for some
time, about 20 minutes, perhaps, I asked my son [then an undergraduate at
B.N.C.] to come and to look out of the window, and tell me what he saw.
He exclaimed, " What an uncanny sight," and described the woman and
the cross exactly as I saw it. I then rang the bell, and when Miss J.
answered it, I asked her also to look out of the window and tell me
what she saw, and she also described the woman and the cross, just as they
appeared to my son and myself. Some one suggested that it might be a re-
llection of some sort, and we all looked about the room to see whether there
was anything in it that could cause such a rellection, but came to the conclu-
sion that there was nothing to account for it. My son then went through the
open side of the (low) window (we had seen the figure through the closed
side [see Note 2]) only a few feet distant from the figure, to see whether it was
possible for a real woman to be thdra, but found nothing. My impression is,
that to us also the figure disappeared when my son went out, but as I was
speaking to Miss J. at the time, I cannot be quite certain about this. Yet
when he returned into the room the woman and the cross still appeared in
the same place. We still continued to discuss what it could be, Miss J.
having a strong idea that it portended death or misfortune to some one, and
being very anxious that the apparition should not be in any way connected
with herself and herfamily ; and when we looked again all had disappeared.
Altogether, from the time when I first saw it, the figure must have lasted for
nearly an hour, from about 9 to 10 p.m., and nothing has occurred since
that would throw any light upon the appearance. I have never had any
similar experience. [See Note 3.]
(Signed) JANE S. ALDERSON.
The following notes are from Mr. Schiller, the member of the Oxford
Society, who procured this case for us:-
Note I.-Mrs. A. never from the first thought that the figure was that
of a real woman.
Note 2.-0wing to the locality, it could not have been soen through the
open window. .
Note 3.-With the exception of hearing heavy footsteps and an aUempt to
ring the bell at home (about 1881). If this was an auditory_hallucination, it
was, however, to all appearance shared by the dog.
The following is Miss J.'s account (in answer to a letter fronl Mrs.
Alderson, written at Mr. r:;chiller's suggestion) :-
The Baltic, Bonchurch.
Marek 11th, 1887.
I remember, distinctly, the visiou of a woman in black, kneeling before
a white croBB, with her hands before her face, as if weeping, with a bonnet on
her head. I do not think there could have been anything in the room to
cause the reflection. If you remember, at the time we looked well about the
Digitized by Google
254 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [April, 1888.
room to see if there was anything that would have caused it. We have none
of us ever seen the same thing since-indeed, it had quite gone from my
memory until your letter recalled it, and now it seems as distinct to me as if
I had only seen it an hour ago. (Signed) S. JOWETT.
I first heard the story from Mrs. A., on 7th March, 1887, and made a
note of it in my diary. It was read before the Phasmatological Society
next term, and questions were asked. The foregoing account is an exa.ct
copy of an account compiled by me from Mrs. A.'s first account, heranswers
to the questions, and various oral remarlu, and was signeci by her as correct.
I have "lao seen the originals of Mrs. A.'s letter to Miss J., and her answer.
Mrs.A. impressed me as highly intelligent and sensible about these
matters. C. SCHILLER, B.A.,
Hon. Member of the Phasmatological Society.
MR. ALDERSON'S AQCount.
Staying at B. (Isle of Wight) during the Easter vaca.tion of 1886, I
remember distinctly seeing an apparition in the form of a woman with her
hands clasped on the top of a cross. The cross looked old and worn, as one
sees in churchyards. My mother drew my attention to the figure, and after
we had watched it for some time we rang t.he bell and asked the servant if
she saw the figure. She said she did. I then went out on to the verandah
(where the figure was), and immediately it vanished.-E. H. ALDERSON.
In answer to M.r. Schiller's questions, Mr. A. wishes to state :-
(1) That he did not notice when the figure vanished.
(2) That he did traverse where the figure apparently was, but saw
nothiBg; those inside the room still seeing the figure.
L 322
-t-
From CAPTAIN R. E. W. CAMPBELL (2nd Royal_Irish FUlliliers),
Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, S.W.
.February 21st, 1888.
DEAR Sm,-I have much pleasure in enclosing you an account of a
remarkable dream which occurred to me in the year 1886, together with
three other accounts of the same, written by officers to whom the facts of the
case are known. You are at liberty, in the interests of science, to make
such use of them as you please.-I remain, yours faithfully,
R. E. W. CAMPBELL,
Captain 2nd Royal Irish Fusiliers.
February 21st, 1888.
I was stationed at thE' DepOt Barracks, Armagh, IreL.nd, on the 30th
November, 1886, and on the night of the same date, or early in the morning
of the 1st December (I cannot tell which, 81 I did not refer to my watch), I
was in bed in my room, 'when I was awakened by a most vivid and remark-
able dream or vision, in which I seemed to see a certain Major Hubbersty,
late of my regiment, the 2nd BattalionRoyal Irish Fusiliers, lookiug ghastly
pale, and falling forward as if dying. He seemed to be saying something to
me, but the words I could not make out although I tried hard to understand
Digitized by Google
April, 1888.] JO'Urnal Of Society for Psychical Re8earch. 255
him. The clothes he had on at the time appeared to me to, have a thin red
thread running through the pattern. J was very deeply impressed by my
dream, and so much did I feel that there was something significant in it that
on the 1st December, when at luncheon, in the mess, I related it to three
brother officers, telling them at the same time that I felt sure we should soon
hear something bad a.bout Major Hubbersty. I hadalm08t forgottenallabout
it, when, on taking up the Times newspaper of the following Saturday on
the Sunday morning following, the first th~ng that caught my eyes was the
announcement of Major Hubbersty's death at Penzance, in Cornwall, on the
30th November, the very date on which I had the remarkable dream concerning
him.
My feelings on seeing such a remarkable fulfilment of my dream can
be better imagined than described. Suffice it to say that on their return from
church of Messrs. Kaytl and Scott I asked them to try and recollect anything
peculiar which had happened at luncheon on the 1st December, when after a
few moments' deliberation, they at once recounted to me the whole circum-
stancea of my dream, as they had heam them fl'C,lm my lips on the 1st
December, 1886. On seeing Mr. Leeper a few days afterwards at his father's
house, Loughgall, Co. Arma17h, he at Ol1ce remembered 811 I had told him
about the dream on the let December, on my questioning him about it.
I, of course, can assign no possible cause for the remarkable facts related, as
apart from the difference of our standing in the service, the late Major
Hubbersty and I were in no wise particularly friendly to one another, nor
had. we seen very much of each other. I had not seen him for 18 months
previously•. A very curious fact in connection with the dream is that it
occurred to me in the very same room in the barracks as Major Hubbersty
used to occupy when stationed at Armagh, several years previously.
&. E. W. CAMPBELL.
Three friends of Captain Campbell supply the following cOl'Toboration .-
Ravensdale Parsonage, Co. Louth, Ireland.
On the 1st of December, 1886, J was at lunch in the mess-room, Armagh
Barracks, with Mr. Campbell and Mr. Leeper, of the 2nd Battalion Royal
Irish Fusiliers, and Mr. Kaye, of the 3rd Battalion of the 81.me regiment.
We were talking about various things, when Mr. Campbell remarked that he
had a very strange vision of a Major Hubbersty, who used to be in his
regiment. He thought he saw him on the night before, or early on the
morning of that day, standing in his room, looking very pale and ghastly,
and that he seemed to fall lorward. He also described the clothes worn by
the vision. As well as J remember, he said they were a sort of spotted cloth,
with a red thread running through it. He then said he felt sure w~ should
hear something about him very soon. On the following Sunday, when I
returned from church with Mr. Kaye, we found Mr. Campbell in the ante-
room, and he read to us out of the Times newspaper the death of Major
Hubbersty, late 2nd Battalion Royal Irish Fusiliers, the same man that had
appeared to him in a vision a few nights before.
T. E. SCOTT,
Lieutenant4th Battalion ,Royal Irish Fusilien.
Digitized by Google
256 JOU'MW.l of Society for P8ychical Research. [April, 1888.
The Barracks, Armagh.
December 13th, 1887.
Mr. Campbell has asked mb to write my recollections of an extraordinary
dream he told me of last winter. I remember distinctly being at lunch with
him here on the 1st December, and in talking of several things in connection
with the regiment. Major Hubberaty's name was mentioned, when Mr.
Campbell told me that he had had a moat extraordinary dream about
Hubberaty the night before, that he had seen him looking very pale and ill,
and the dream had evidently made a very strong impression on Mr. Campbell
as he told me he felt sure we would BOon hear of poor Hubberaty's death or
some other misfortune happening to him.
I did not see Mr. Campbell till three days afterwards, when he came out
to dine at my father's house at Loughga.ll, and had forgotten a.ll about his
dream, when, to my astonishment, he told me that since he had seen me last
he had heard of Major Hubberaty's death, and that it had occurred on the
very day that he had the dream he told me or, and it greatly surprised me as
it seemed just like the fulfihnent of a prediction.
R. W. LEEPER,
Lieutenant 2nd Batt.a.lion Royal Iriah Fuailiera.
62, Fitzwillia.m-square, Dublin.
.Augmt 20th, 1887.
I W&8 stationed in the barracks, Armagh Depot, Royal Irish Fusiliera,
in November and December, 1886. On the 1st of December, at lunch,
there were present, Lieutenant R. E. W. Campbell (2nd R.I.F.), Lieutenant
R. W. Leeper (2nd R.I.F.), Lieutenant T. E. Scott (4th R.I.F.), and
myself. During our conversation Major Hubberaty's name was mentioned,
and Campbell told us that he had & dream about him the night before, howhe
had seen a vision ofMajor Hubberaty looking very pale and seeming to be fa.ll-
ing forward, and sa.ying something to him which he could not hear; alao, he
(Campbell) told us he was sure -we would hear something about Major
Hubberaty very BOOn.
On the following Sunday, when Scott and I returned from church and
went into the ante-room, Campbell, who was there, asked us both to try and
remember anything peculiar that he had told us on the 1st. After a little time,
we remembered about the dream, and he (Campbell) then showed us the
Timea newspaper of the day before, containing the notice of Major
Hubberaty's death, at Penzance, on November 30th, 1886, the sa.we date &8
that on which he had the dream; also, I remember, he (Campbell) told us
that in his vision he seemed to see the clothes which Major Hubberaty had
on, and that there was a red thread running through the pattern of the
trousers.
A. B. R. KAYE,
Lieutenant 3rd Royal Iriah Fusiliera.
In answer to an inquiry, Captain Campbell writes, on February 29th,
1888:-
I do not dream milch, as a rule, and cannot reca.ll to my mind ever
before having had a dream of a similar nature to that dreamt by me about
the late Major Hubberaty.
Digitized by Google
