{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 4690","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n52_jul_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N52 July 1888","mylang":"de"}
No. Ln.-VOL. III. JULY, 1888.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
The'issue of this number of the Journal has been unavoid-
ably delayed, in consequence of the sudden death of the editor,
Mr. Edmund Gurney, who has been Honorary Secretary of the
Society since 1883. Few who read this will fail to appreciate
to some extent the greatness of the loss which this calamity
has inflicted on the work whioh the Society was formed to
carryon; but it can only be fully felt by those who co-
operated with Mr. Gurney in the difficult and laborious
investigations of which he has for five years borne the
chief burden. To them the loss of his sympathy and aid,
and of the stimulus given by his bright, subtle and inde-
fatigable intellect, cannot but he irreparable. An account .
of his work will form part of the next number of the
Journal, which-according to an arrangement made last
year-will not appear till October. The present number,
which was left ill an advanced state of preparation, is
issued substantially (it is believed) as Mr. Gurney would
have issued it if it had received his final revision.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates .. ..
Meeting of the Council .. .. ..
General Meeting.. .. .. " ••
Cases snpplied to the Literary Commlt~e
Correspondence .. .. .. .. ..
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
LEES, GEORGE FREDERICK, Westbury-on-Trym, Gloucestershire.
SOLTYKOFF, PRINCE ALEXIS, 14, Beaumont-street, Oxford.
ASSOCIATES.
ALLEN, HENRY J., Ferndene, Blackrock, Co. Dublin.
PAGE
•• 289
•• 290
•• 290
•• 292
.• 302
FARNCOMBE, GEORGE RICHARD, B.A., 30, Holyhead-road, Handsworth,
Birmingham.
MONEY, CHARLES L., Northbrook Cottage, Petersfield.
WOOD, MRS. T., 4, The Avenue, Colchester.
2A
Digitized by Google
290 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [July, 1888
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on the 31st of May, the Presi-
dent in the chair, at which the following Members were also present :-
Professor W. F. Barrett, Dr. A. T. Myers, Messrs. Edmund Gurney, F.
W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, and Hensleigh Wedgwood.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Two new Members and four new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected.
Some presents to the Library were reported, and a vote of thanks
was passed to the donors.
A cash account for the month of April was presented in the usual
form.
The Council approved a circular letter addressed to the librarians
of Free Public Libraries, offering to supply the four published
volumes of Proceedings on specially advantageous terms.
A proposition was received from Mr. R.Hodgson, on behalf of
the American S.P.R., that an arrangement should be made under
which the American S.P.R. should be regularly supplied with the
Journal for the use of its own Members. It was resolved to offer to
send, free, a supply of the July number of the Journal as a specimen.
It was settled that, as last year, the Journal should not be
issued in August and September.
The date of the next General Meeting was fixed for Monday,
the 16th of July. The next Meeting of the Council will be on the
afternoon of the same day, at 4.30.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town Hall on the
31st of May, the President of the Society in the chair.
Mrs. Sidgwick read the concluding part of a paper on "Premoni-
tions," of which she supplies the following abstract.
Mrs. Sidgwick explained that by a premonition she meant a super-
normal knowledge of a future event, not merely an extension of our
natural knowledge in space, such as a perception of present though
concealed danger, or existing though distant scenes would be, but an
extension of our natural knowledge forward in time. She gave a general
account of the kind of evidence on the subject which has come before
the Society, and pointed out some of the difficulties in obt'l.ining
conclusive proofs which are peculiar to premonition over and above
those which belong to telepathy and premonition alike. One of the
most important of these is that a premonitory phant&sm does not, like
a telepathic one, necessarily imply the date of its fulfilment, and it
Digitized by Google
July, 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 291
must, therefore, be more complex than a telepathic one, and hence
depend more on an accurate recollection of detail, in order to have the
same cogency. Mrs. Sidgwick read a number of the best caseH in the
Society's collection of premonitions conveyed by visual and auditory
hallucina.tions, impressions, verbal prophecies, a.nd dreams, and pointed
out that, of the first-hand cases, about two-thirds belonged to the last
class, which, from the nature of dreams, is necessarily a weak one. She
said that the evidence at present collected did not seem to her to
warrant a conclusion in favour of the reality of premonitions. Some of
the cases were certainly very striking, but, on the whole, both in
quantity and quality, the evidence fell far short of that for telepathy;
and while less evidence was apparently forthcoming, decidedly more
was, she thought, required, owing to the still greater remoteness from
the analogy of our established sciences which the intuitive knowledge of
detailed future events would involv-e. It appeared, however,that therewas
a possibility of obtaining quasi-experimental evidence on the subject of
premonitions. For many persons believed themselves to have premoni-
tions either of a symbolic kind, like banshees, or of a more literal kind,
many times in the course of their lives. If !luch persons would write
down before fulfilment, and with as much detail as possible, each dream
or phantasm which appeared to them to have significance, it would
soon be known whether the apparent fulfilments were more than could
rea.sonably be attributed to chance or not.
At the conclusion of the paper the President emphasised the fact
that the prime condition for obtaining anything like satisfactory
evidence on the subject is for persons who believe themselves to have
experienced a premonition, whether in dream or in some other form, to
write down an exact account of their experience at once, before the
event falls due.
Mr. O. Elton read some notes on "The Beneficial Effects of
Hypnotism," based on references to the Revue de f Hypnotisme, to this
effect ;-
The view that only hysterical subjects can be helped by hypnotism
is false, but such subjects are more susceptible than others, and
hysterical as distinct from organic paralysis has been cured by
hypnotism.
In patients not hysterical, those diseases which depend on the
nerves, and functional derangements not involving organic injury, are
largely curable by using hypnotism as an anresthetic, or as a. means of
suggesting rest and relief from pain. Further, cases are quoted by Dr.
Yoisin where mania not involving hysteria was modified and sometimes
cured by the Eame treatment, especially dipsomania. The great ques-
tion to settle is, how far disease involving organic lesion can be
Digitized by ~dogle
292 Jou1"nal of Society tor Psychical Research. [July, 1888.
provably affected, qua the lesion, by hypnotic treatment. The two
best cases for the affirmative view are those quoted by Dr. Chiltoff in
the Revue, December, 1886, of paralysis following apoplexy, and by
Dr. Delbreuf (Revue, Vol. II., p. 13) of an alleged burn whose conse·
quences were arrested by hypnotism, while in a similar burn in the satne
patient, no such suggestion being made, they were not. Lastly, the use
of hypnotism in pedagogy and moral reform is growing; and the general
view in France in that its employment for the reformation of abnor-
mally vicious, yet not demented, subjects, involves no unjust
encroachment upon the liberty of the individual.
CASES SUPPLIED TO THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
G 316
t
From MISS LISTER, whose address is suppressed only because its
publication in the present connection might lead to difficulties, should
she ever desire to let her house.
March 8th, 1888.
Some time ago a friend of mine had the misfortune toloseherhusband.*
They had only been married about five years, and she expressed great grief
at his loss, and asked me to go and reside with her. I went to
her, and stayed six months. One evening, towards the end of that summer.
I remarked that I would go upstairs and have a bath. "Do," she rtlplied,
.. but first I wish YOIl would fetch me that little book 1 left on the drawing-
room table last night." I started without a light (having been naturally
fearless all my life, I am accustomed to go about in the dark), opened the
drawing.room door, and Btood for a minute, thinking where she had placed it,
when I saw, to my amazement, her husband, sitting by the table; his elbow
was resting on the table close to the book. My first thought was to pretend
forgetfulness, my second to tell her what I had seeD and return without
the book. However, having boasted that I did not know the meaning of fear,
I determined to get it, and advanced to the table. He seemed to be smiling,
as if he knew my thoughts. I picked up the book and took it to her without
saying anything about it; then, going into the bathroom, I soon forgot it.
But after being there about 20 minutes I heard my friend go up and open
the drawing·room door. I laughed, and listened to hear if he was still
there, and very soon heard her run out of the room, and downstairs about
four at a time, and ring the dining·room bell furiously. One of the maida
came running up. I dressed as quickly as possible and went down to her,
and found her looking very white and trembling. "Whatever is the
matted" I said. "I have seen my husband," she replied. " What
nonsense," I answered. .. Ob, but I have," she continued,-" at least,
i didn't actually see him, but he spoke twice to me; I ran out of the room.
and he followed and put his cold hand on my shoulder."
• I have Been his memorial card. His age was 53, and he died April 17th.
18K4.-"ED.
Digitized by Google
July, 1888.) Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 293
Now this seems to me a very strange thing, because I had only seen the
gentleman about two or three times, therefore cannot understand his
appearing to me, and I certainly was not thinking of him at the time.
The other apparition was of an old lady whom I had never seen, and I
only discovered for whom it was intended by describing her to someone who
knew her. She appeared to me on several occasions, and I happened to
relate this to the gentleman alluded to, who informed me that it was my
imagination, and added that if it had been a spirit I should have been too
frightened to look long enough to describe its appearance. I told him in
reply that I wished someone who had heard the tale would appear to me
after their death and see if they could frighten me ; and I thought of it when
he appeared, and wondered if it had anything to do with my seeing him.
L. A. LISTER.
In reply to inquiries, the narrator says :-
Ma1'ch 13th, 1888.
My reasons for not mentioning the gentleman's name were two-fold.
First, because I wrote without the sanction, or, indeed, knowledge, of his
wife; secondly, because a faInily of the name of -- now reside there,*
and they are a very nervous family; if they heard about the apparition
would probably remove. As the owner of the house is an !)ld friend of my
father's this would be unpleasant for all parties. He died in April, 1884.
His appearance was not before the beginning of October. I took no notice
-of the date, but I had been with his wife to Lowestoft for six weeks. We
went on the 19th of August, and returned after Michaelnlas Day. This
Qccurred soon after our return.
The old lady's appearance was here. My father purchased the house
in June, 1883, from Mrs. --, whose aunt had died here-being found
dead in bed one day, haloing died the night before, all alone. The lodger
forced the door, fearing something was tha matter; but I was not aware of
this till a long time after. This appearance occurred on a special jete day at
the" Fi'lheries"-the proceeds of which were, I believe, intended to build a
church. Some friends of mine were going, and had tried to persuade me to
accompany them, but the house would have been left with no one in it if I
had gone. In the afternoon I had been sewing, and drawing my chair close
to the window overlooking the garden at the back, I intended working as
long as I could see. I sat for a few minutes looking out, and trying to
imagine how the exliibition looked, and, upon turning, saw the old lady
standing looking at me. "Who can that be 1" I thought (and looked out
again) " some one must have come here by mistake-possibly a neighbour."
I looked at her again, long enough to take in all the details of her costume.
Again I turned to the window, wondering whether I had left any
Qf the doors open, and how it was I had not heard her come in.
hell thinking how stupid not to ask her, I got up to }Jut the question-but
she had gone, as noisele'Jsly as she came. I looked alI over the house-in
-cupboards, under bedsteads, &c., but not a trace of anyone or anything
·could be found.
* The name and address were given.-ED.
Digitized by Google
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1888.
The servant I had at that time had been a servant at the house before,
I knew; so I resolved (of course without telling her why) 00 describe the
old lady. I made several casual remarks about her, then I said, .. I fancy
I saw her one day, Phrebe, let me describe her. She was rather short, thin,
had brown eyea, a long nose, and wore a black cap with a flower or red bow
at the side, a black dreBS, black mittens, and a white neckerchief, edged
with lace, folded cornerways and fastened with a brooch." Phrebe inter-
rupted me several times by saying that was her, miss, and ended by sa~
she always wore one of those kerchiefs.
About three weeks after, I happened to be again alone, and was hurry-
ing out of the breakfast-room into the room where I had seen her, whE'n,
glancing up the staircase, I beheld myoid lady coming down. This time she
was attired in a lavender dress. I stood at the foot of the stairs, thinking
as she passed I would take hold of her. We seemed to be looking at one
another for 10 minutes, when she went backwards up the lltairs like a.
human being. I now felt certain someone was playing me a trick (though I
had heard no sound); I ran up quickly, but at the tum in the stairs, she
vanished. I searched the house as before, with the same result. When
Phrebe returned, I said, 'Did Miss S-- ever wear a la\'ender-coloured
dress 1" "Yes, miss, she did; she never wore the same twice running," said
Phrebe. I have never seen the 91d lady since. I was enjoying perfect
health at the time.
LAURA LIsTER.
Miss Lister, with whom J have had a long interview, is, as far as I
can judge, an accurate witness. She is certainly the very opposite of a
nervous or superstitious person. She has had no other ha.llucinations.
She felt some drea.d at the appearance of Mr. --, but this did not
prevent her from advancing to the table where he seemed to be sitting.
He was dressed in black. The light on this occasion was bright
moonlight, and he was clearly seen. Miss Lister's conversation with
him had been some months before his sudden death, at a. time when he
was quite well. Unfortunately, we have 80 far been unable to discover
the present address of Mr. --'s widow, who has married aga.in.
As regards the first appearance of the old lady, Miss Lister holds that
it is quite impossible that it could have been a. rea.! person who got
ba.ck into the street. The hall door makes a. considera.ble noise in
opening and shutting, which she must have heard; and moreover it
could not be opened from the outside. She was struck by the absence
of footsteps. She went in search of the visitor immediately on look·
ing up, and finding that the figure had disappeared.
Phrebe has married. If Miss Lister discovers her address, she will
let me know it. The niece of Miss --, who was requested to supply a.
description of her aunt's personal appearance and dress, has not replied.
E.G.
Digitized by Google
July, 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 295
CASES OF COLLECTIVE HALLUCINATIONS.
The following is an interesting case of joint hallucination, which we
should describe as "collective percipience," supposing the experience to
have been in any way directly due to the person whose appearance WAS seen.
It is against that interpretation that that person was at the time in a com-
llietely normal state. According to request, the two accounts were given
quite independently by the two witnesses.
From MRs. MILMAN.
17, Southwell-gardens, S.W.
March 20th, 1888.
About three years ago I was coming out of the dining-room one day,
after lunch, with my sister. My mother had, as I supposed, preceded us"
upstairs, as usual. The library door, which faces ,tlle dining-room, stood
wide open, and looking through it as I crossed the hall, I saw my mother in
the library, seated at the writing-table, and apparently writing. Instead,
therefore, of going upstairs, as I had intended, I went to the library
door, wishing to speak to her, but when I looked in the room was empty.
At the same moment, my sister, who had also been going towards the
stairs in the first instance, changed her direction, and, crossing the hall,
came up to the library door behind me. She then exclaimed, "Why, I
thought I saw mamma in the library, at the writing-table." On comparing
notes, we found that we had both seen her seated at the writing-table, and
bending over it as if writing. My mother was never in the habit of writing
ill the library.
I recollect her dress perfectly, as the impression was quite distinct and
vivid. She had on " black cloak, and. bonnet with a yellow bird in it, which
she generally wore.
It is the only time anything of the kind has happened to me.
M. J. MILMAN.
From MISS CAMPBELL.
17, Southwell-gardens, S.W.
March 21st, 1888.
My sister and mother and myself, after returning from our morning
drive, CaDle into the dining-room without removing our things, and had
luncheon as usual, during which my sister and I laughed and cracked jokes
in the gayest of spirits. After a time my mother rose and left the room, but
we remained on for a few minutes. Finally we both got up and went into
the passage, and I was about to go upstairs and take off my things when I
saw my eister turn into my father's study (which was directly opposite the
dining-room), with the evident intention, as I supposed, of speaking to my
mother, whom I distinctly noticed seated at my father's desk in her cloak
and bonnet, busily absorbed in writing. The door of the study was wide
open at the time. I turned round and followed her to the door, when, to
my surprise, my mother had completely disappeared, and I noticed my
sister turned away too, and left the room as if puzzled. I asked her, with
BOrne curiosity, what she went into the room for 1 She replied that she
fancied she saw my mother bending over the desk writing, and went in to
speak to her. Feeling very much startled and alarmed, we went u stairs to
Digitized by Google
296 Journal oj Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1888.
Bee after her, and found her in her bedroom, where she went immediately on
eaving the dining-room, and had been all the time. E. J. CAMPBBLL.
In the next case, there is certainly BOme ground for surmising that the
appearance had some other than a purely subjective origin. But the type
is so rare that it is difficult to know what value to attach to a single instance.
From MISS PEARSON.
15, Fitzroy-square, W.C.,
.April, 1888.
The house, 19, St. James's-plaoe, Green Park, had been taken on a very
long lease by my grandfather, a solicitor, in large county practice, having his
offices in EBBex-street, Strand.
There my father was born and his two sisters, Ann and Harriet. Aunt
Ann died in 1858,leaving all she pOllseBBed to Aunt Harriet,who remained in
the house. They had been devotedly attached to each other. In November,
1864, I was sumnlOned to Brighton. My Aunt Harriet was then very ill
there. Mrs. Coppinger, the daughter of Mr. Thomas Pearsoll, my father's
brother, was there, and her son, Mr. George James, by her first husband,
came up and dOWll. Eliza Quinton was nursing her. She only craved to
go back to the old house where she was born, and I made arrangements with
the railway company and took her home.
This was in the second week of December. She became worse and
worse. Eliza continued to nurse her, and Mrs. Coppinger, Mrs. John
Pearson, the wife of a nephew, and myself helped with the llight work.
MiBB Harriet Pearsoll slept in a large three windowed bedroom over the
dra.wing-room. The room behind was occupied by Mrs. Coppinger and
myself, though one of us was generally in the patient's room at night. On
the night of December 22nd, 1864, Mrs. John Pearson was in the room,
Mrs. Coppinger anll myself in the back room; the house lighted up on
the landings and staircases, our door wide open.
About 1 or 2 a.m. on the morning of December 23rd, both Mrs.
Coppinger and myself started up in bed; we were neither of us sleeping as
we were watching every BOund from the next room.
We saw some one pass the door, short, wrapped up in an old shawl, a
wig with three curls each side and an old black cap. Mrs. Coppinger called
out, "Emma, get up, it is old Aunt Ann." I said... So it is, then Aunt
Harriet will die to-day." We jumped up, and Mrs. John Pearson came
rushing out of the room and said, "That was old Aunt Ann. Where is she
!tone to 1" I said to soothe her, "Perhaps it was Eliza come down to see how
her mistress is." Mrs. Coppinger ran upstairs and found Eliza sleeping
in the servants' room. She was very awestruck but calm, dreBBed and
came down. Every room was searched, no one was there, and from that
day to this no explanation has ever been given of this appearance, except
that it was old Aunt Ann come to call her sister, and she died at 6 p.m.
that day.
I may add that I mentioned this matter to the Rev. Edward Walford,
late scholar of Balliol College, and now much connected with literature, at
the house of Mr. 'fowers, late M.P. for Finsbury, in January, 1865.
EIIIIIIA M. PBABSON.
Digitized by Google
July,1888.1 Journal 0/ Society /01' Psychical Research. 297
I was living with Miss Ann and Miss Harriet Pearson, in 19, St. J ames's-
place. After the death of Miss Ann I remained with her sister, and when
she became very ill and Wall ordered change of air, I went with her
as nurse to Brighton. Ml'I!. Coppinger was there and Mr. George James
now and then. Miss Emma Pearson was sent for and came down. She
brought her aunt back to London. I continued to nurse her. I remember
on the early morning of December 23rd being called up' by Mrs. Coppinger,
who sa.id that she, Miss Emma and Mrs. John Pearson had seen some one
come upstairs and pass into the patient'" room. Was it I J I said no. Mrs.
Coppinger said. "They said it was old Aunt Ann." We searched the house
and could finrl. no one. Miss Harriet died in the evening of that day, but
before that told all of us that she had seen her sister and knew it was
her, and she had come to call her. ELIZA QUINTON.
April 3rd, 1888.
P.S.-In a separate letter of the Rame date Miss Pearson adds ;-
"I now remember my aunt saying •her sister had CODle for her, for she
had seen her.'"
CASE OF THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
From MISS J. M. SMITH.
56, Longridge-road, S. W.
May, 1888.
During Lent, 1873. I stayed in Scarborough with my aunt, and there my
cousins and I used "planchette" every day for some weeks. The instru-
ment (though professing a great hatred of me) answered at last my mental
questions, when two persons, eitherJulia and Agnes G., or John G. and
one of his sisters, had their hands upon it.
One day, seated at a window some distance from the table at which the
operators sat, I asked it questions mentally, not even moving my lips, and
after one answer, .. No," my cousins asked it to write the question just put.
I went behind, not believing it possible, but to my horror it formed the first
two or three words of my question, ,and I had to knock away my cousins'
hands, and carry it away in order to stop the disclosure.
One evening 1 went upstairs, two stories, to my bedroom, telling my
cousins to put the question, Who were spending the evening at my home in
Cheshire 1 On my return they read out. "Mrs. B. and Ellen P.,"
those names being the visitors mentioned in my lEtter that day. My
cousins had heard of the former lady's existence, but never of the latter to
the best of my knowledge, and had not heard my letter read.
That same day, when 1 was again upstairs, "planchette " wrote out the
pet name of one of my sisters (no relation to my cousins, being a step-sister),
and on my entrance into the room I found them puzzling over some letters
which they read out to me, ..Em D'Em," written as I always write it. Again,
they did not know the name, and we had no sympathy one with another.
In answer to inquiries, Miss Smith adds ;-
" As regards my planchette experiences the mental question I asked was
not a common one, though it is impo38ible for me to give it you, even the first
words. I should not have hindered the instrument from writing unless I had
Digitized by Google
298 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea'rch. [July, 1888.
seen it was going to give my own question. My cousin remembers me
carrying it off in a frigbt, but C8Jlnot recollect the words written, nor dOES
she think it wrote anything. My testimony, a8 the &larmed questioner, will
have alone to content you. The pet; name for my sister was 'Em. D'Em,'
and my cousin observed to-day that it was very unlikely she or her sister had
ever heard it as they did not know my sister."
AUTOMATIC MESSAGES.
MRS. KIRBY'S CASE.
The case which follows was read to the Society for Psychical
Research at the General Meeting, January 28th,.1888.
Its publication has been delayed in the hope, thus far disappointed,
of discovering some one resident in Santa Cruz in or about 1852 who
might be able to corroborate or correct Mrs. Kirby's narrative. But
since a number of copies of the Journal for July are to be sent to the
United States, it seems desirable to print the case. here as it stands,
appealing to anyone who may know anything of the persons concerned
to write to F. W. H. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cambridge,
England. I may add that I am very anxious to collect first-hand cases
_ of the reception, by automatic writing, tilts, raps, kc., of messages con-
taining facts not known to the persons present; and that I shall be
grateful for any communication on this subject. F. W. H. M.
Mrs. Kirby writes to me from Santa Cruz, Cal., August 13th, 1886,
as follows :-
In 1850 I left New York for San Francisco. Spiritualism, in the sense in
which that word is now used, had no existence. The facts and philosophy
it covers were unknown, except partially to the very few readers of
Swedenborg's cumbrous and involved theology. Attention had been called
to some rappings which had made themselves heard in a house in Rochester,
N.Y., and there had been some violent demonstrations (breaking of windows,
moving of furniture, and unlocking of locked drawers and doors) in the
house of an orthodox clergyman somewhere in Connecticut.
In 1853 I was living on a ranche three miles from what is now the city oi
Santa Cruz. (It was but a village then, though they called it a town.) My
family consisted of my husband, myself, and, in a certain sense, 1)£ a young
English sailor, a healthy, kind-hearted, and very decent, though very
ignorant, fellow, whom my husband had employed to work on the rancho
during the previous year. His name was Thomas Travers, and he had just
made his mark (X) to a written agreement for another year's service. .As
it will be seen, I had no servant, but Tom stood ready to help me in any way
he could. For instance, when, at intervals of weeks, visitors would make
their appearance, he would immediately kill and clean some chickens for me.
(If you wanted beaf-steak in those days you could only have it by killing an
ox. The nearest neighbours sometimes combined and took a quarter each.)
On one occ&Sion the two most intelligent men in town came out, a Dr.
McLean and the Rev. - Dryden, and they presently asked me if I had a
Digitized by Google
July,l888.] Journal of SocMty for Psychical Research. 299
small table I could let them have (while I was busy, and my.husband a mile
off at his tannery), with which they could continue Borne strange experiments
that had lately been made among our mutual friends in town. Spirits tipped
the table, and they said sentences were spelled by the use of the alphabet.
The A's and B's had in this way heard of their long since departed
children, &c., &c.
I listened eagerly. I had left a large circle of friends at the East, and
here was not one of the old kind: Lucretia Mott, Lucy Stone, Garrison,
Purvis. A view of the entire bay of Monterey from my sitting.room window
did not prevent me from longing continually for a little of the old sympathy.
One of my most devoted friends had a few years since 1passed to the
other shore; my young brother was there too. If I could establish commu-
nication with them what a relief, what a pleasure it would be to me !
My smallest table was in size 31ft. by lift. My husband was willing to
test the matter, and as we were given to understand that three or foul'
persons together would be more likely to succeed than two (since magnetism
or electricity was drawn from them by the invisibles to help in accomplishing
their object), Mr. K. went out to Tom's shanty and asked him to come-
and sit at the table with us.
We had not held our hands one moment on the table before it tipped very
decidedly, and I forthwith proceeded to repeat the alphabet. The doing so,
however, struck me as worse than ridiculous; it was very unpleasant, too,
and I observed that if spirits were present they could hear me say the letters
in my mind as well as if they were uttered from my tongue.
.. All right. Go ahead!" my husband replied, .. we will sit and wait.
for results."
I did so, and the table tipped promptly to the letters, spelling out-
" Mary Howells." .
As I knew no such person I asked if she was a friend of Mr. K.'s 1
Answer: "lS0." Of Tom's 1 Answer: "Yes." A relation of his ~ Answer:
"Sister." Are you married 1 I questioned. Answer:" No."
" Oh, don't let us waste any more time!" I exclaimed. It's all falsehood
and nonsense. Here is someone professing to be Tom's sister who says her
name is Mary Howells, and that she is unmarried. If this were true of course
her name would be Travers.
Tom nodded aside to me and said in a low tone-
"Yes, mum. That's her name. Mary Howells."
He looked extremely confused and astonished.
" Why, what do you mean 1'" Mr. K. broke in; .. your name is Tra¥ers.
how can hers be Howe1Js 1"
" No, sir," Tom replied, looking down, .. my name is Howells. '
But Mr. K. insisted that it could not be. Had he not made his mark
after the Travers only the other day 1 Five minutes were taken up in the
attempt to convince Tom that he did not know his own name.
" You see, sir," he at length explained, "I ran away from a whale ship.
in San Francisco, and sailors is so scarce there I was afraid they would hunt
me up and take me back, so I just took another name."
Hardly convinced now, Mr. K. advised him to drop the alias at once,
assuring him that no one would molest him. This he did, and the second
Digitized by Go
:300 Journal of Society f01' Psychical Research. rJuly, 1888,
year following married, and he is now the father of 12 girls and three boys
who bear the strangely discovered name.
But to return. Finding that the communication had been so far correct
I proposed that we should compose ourselves while I repeated the alphabet
·as before, still hoping to receive the name of my dear friend. But Tom's
sister had not accomplished her purpose, and she proceeded to spell the
following words ;-
"I-have-a-child-a-girl. - She-is-seven-years-old-and-now
-is-in-a-house-of -ill-fame - in-Cat - street. - I-want - my-
broth~r-to-bring-her-away-from-there. "
This was a difficult and painful message to convey, and I told Tom that I
-did not like to tell him what was spelled.
" She says that she has a little girl seven years old," I began.
Here he removed his hands quickly from the table, and counting on the
fingers of one hand by those of the other, looked up and observed;-
"Yes, mum, that's so. She's seven now."
When I gave him the rest of the message he became much excited, and
begged me to assure his sister that he would send home 5Odol. the next
month, and have the child removed to a better pla.ce, and that as soon as the
·crops were in he would go home anti get the child.
I assured him she could hear all he was saying.
.. But is it true that there is a street called Cat-street1 " I asked, .
'''Yes, mum; and it is the worst in the city," he returned.
The following day he acknowledged to me that his sister was Ii woman of
the town.
I now asked my husband to procure me a smaller and lighter table so that
I might sit at it by myself and in that way be more likely to attract my own
friends. This he did, but to my great annoyaftce, Mary Howells imme-
·diately presented herself. This time, however, she came to say that her
-child was ill. When she left the movements of the table were weak and
uncertain.
The following evening,.she came to say that the chiid was much worse,
and she thought it would die. A day or two later she reported it dead. I
·asked if the child were now with her, and she replied by very decided move-
ments, that she was not.
After this, Mary Howells never put in an appearance, and every day I
prayed that some one I loved might speak a word to me. They did not. I
know now that they could not, for want of the honest sailor's electrical help,
which I rejected in my ignorance. Seafaring persons are apt to possess
great mediumistic power.
After hearing that the child was dead I wrote a guarded letter to Tom's
parents, for him, asking how they all were, including the little girl. In due
time I received a reply, or, I should say, Tom did, though he could not read
writing. They said they were all well except Mary's little girl, who had
died. (They did not say exactly when, but as Tom had not been absent
from England much over a year, it must have been within that time, and we
had every reason to believe the mother's statement a true .:>ne.) The old
people further said that Mary had marrud a soldier.
I understood from this that the child's mother was not wholly depraved.
July, 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 301
that she was concerned about the welfare of her little one, and looking about
for help in her destitute circumstances her thoughts had turned to her
brother, most likely persistently turned to him, and this resulted in hel'
leaving her body temporarily during sleep in search of him. We had asslImed
that she was, as we say, "dead." She had not asserted the fact.
I submit this one experience and will write out another as soon as I can..
-Very truly yours, GEORGIANA B. KIRBY.
A second letter from l\Irs. Kirby, dated Santa Cruz, CA.1., October'
12th, 1886, gave further pal·ticulars, as follows:-
DEAR SIR,-Yours of September 9th arrived in due season. My reply
has been delayed by my ineffectual efforts to ascertain the month when our·
two friends, McLean and Dryden, visited us on the ranche, because it was.
within a month after this that Mary Howells told me her child was ill, and
later that she was dead, and I thought it might not be so difficult to search
the death record of one month for the child under the head of " Howells."
A'J it is the gentlemen have proved to me that their visit occurred in 1852,
and not in 1853 as I had supposed, but they could not remember if it were,
the spring or fall of that year. This, our ignorance of the date of the death
and of the child's Chrisb.an name is the most unsatisfactory part of my'
record. Neither were mentioned in the grl\ndfa~her'sletter, and from Tom
never mentioning the name I fancied he did not know it. I saw him
recently, but I could not venture to speak to him of his sister's illegitimate-
child. He has 12 living daughters of his own, and he would be justly
offended if I should remind him of how we had gained a knowledge of his
sister's life.. He .told us that his father was still alive and living where they
always had, at Saltash, which he thought by this time must be a part of
Plymouth.
I should explain that neither Dr. McLean nor the Rev. - Dryden were-
personally cognisant of our doings, so that they could not act as witnesses in
the case.
You ask if I can point you to any contemporary record. Thirty-foul'
years ago no Spiritualistic paper was published in the United States,and such
a narration given as true in any ordinary journal would have laid us open to.
the charge of lunacy. And had this been otherwise, we could not have
proclaimed the fact that the sister of the honest fellow who was working for-
us was a disreputable woman.
As to fraud on Tom's part, he could hardly understand why we wanted
him to sit with his hands 011 the table. I repeated the letters in my mind.
How could he tip the table at the right instant so as to spell words which
disclosed his sister's disgrace 1 Then he was in no want of meney. He had
been earning 6Odol. a month (and had spent it all, mostly at Spanish
fandangos), and the agreement with my husband, to which he had lately
placed his X, bound him to work for Mr. K. for one year for the SUDt of
6Odel. a month and his board and lodging. You, sir, must have read some-
thing about the high price of labour in California in those early years of its.
settlement.
The sittings were held after supper (:>r dinner, you would call it) between
Beven and nine o'clock.
Digitized by Google
302 JO'l.M'1UJ,l of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1888.
Cat-street was in Plymouth, England. If it has given place to another
the fact ofits former existence could be verified. GEORGIANA B. KIRBY.
The actual existence of the" Ca.t-street " of the narra.tive is shown
by the following letter :-
Post Office, Plymouth, January 23rd, 1888.
Sm,-In reply to yours of the 21st instant I beg to inform you that a few
years ago there was a street named Catte-street, but it is now called
Stillman-street.-I am, su:, yours obediently,
R. A. LEVERTON (for POSTIIIASTER).
The regretted death of Mrs. Kirby soon after the date of her last
letter put an end to this correspondence.
It will be observed that the communications from the woman at
Plymouth were received at an hour which, in England, fell in the
middle of the night.
------------------------
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the .JOuRNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PsycmCAL RESEARCH.
Sm,-No one can be more disposed than I am to receive with respect
anything that a man of Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace's scientific eminence has
to say about Spiritualism. At the same time, I cannot but think that the
" Account of a Spiritualistic Test," contributed by him to the June JO'Urllal,
is aomewhat disheartening to anyone hoping to obtain through Spiritualism
evidence that the dead can communicate with the living. We must suppose
that the case that Mr. Wallace bas brought forward fairly represents, in his
viewI the best attainable evidence; and, if so, the best attainable evidence
would seem to be quite inadequate to sustain tho conclusion which he draws
from it. ,
The whole proof of the intervention of extra-human inteHigence is
briefty this. At a seance attended by General Lippitt a veiled figure
appears, calling herself Nellie Morris. She is uncalled for, unconnected
with any ono present, and unknown to them all. But it is ascertained that
the particulars which she gives about herself are true of a real Nellie Morris
who had died at a hotel at Philadelphia a few years before. Subsequently,
at other seances with other mediums, Nellie Morris again presents herself
to Goneral Lippitt. That, I think, is sublltantially the whole case-for I do
not understand General Lippitt to lay stress on any precautions to prevent
personation by the medium or accomplices.
Mr. Wallace and General Lippitt, as I understand them, consider that the
evidence of extra-human intelligence rests (1), on the improbability that the
first medium, Mrs. Beste, would know the particulars givenahout Nellie
Morris, and (2) the improbability that, having once interested General Lippitt
in Nellie Morris, she would make this fact known to other mediums. I am
unable, however, to see on what grounds oither of these things isregardedas
improbable. The details given about Nellie Morris were no secrets, they
might have been known to anyone and therefore to the medium; and her
choice being unrestricted, she was free to select anyone about whom she hap-
pened to know particulars which could be easily verified. As to the second
Digitized by Google
July, 1888.] Journal of Society /01' Psychical Reseat'ch. 303
point, it appears to me that coricerting together to deceive Spiritualists or
investigators of General Lippitt's importance, would be among the rudiments
of the art of fraudulent mediumship. For such concert as would be required
would be easy and safe, and would, if successful, add to tlie reputation of
both mediums and detract from neither; while there would be good reason to
hope that, with so great a frequenter of seances as General Lippitt, the little
trouble involved wf)Uld not be thrown away; since a man in a prominent
social position, and especially one who also has held public office and is an
author, can hardly conceal his identity by merely omitting to give his
name.
Hut Mr. Wallace thinks that even this little trouble would not be worth
taking, because "no advertisement of the mediums concerned was to be
expected" from General Lippitt. No doubt the medlUms concerned would
like to be advertised, but published accounts of seances are not the only form
of advertisement. General Lippitt does not hide his faith; and more
inquirers and converts are likely to result from keeping alive the iuterest in
the subject of a man of his known position and integrity, than from letters
to Spiritualistic journals by unknown men.
The whole" test," then, crumbles away. The improbability that General
Lippitt was deceived is only the improbability that the mediums would wish
to deceive him, and surely we cannot reasonably reckon this great, even
apart from the evidence of imposture, which we have as regards several of
them.
A few words on another "test" related by General Lippitt. The
supposed spirit of his daughter Carrie brought a message at a seance in 1884
that she was "happy with mother Elizabeth, and we here celebrate her
birthday (February 25th) much after the manner we did on earth." Here
knowledge is shown of two facts-the name and the birthday of General
Lippitt's first wife,-the second of which was, he feels sure, unknown
to all except himself and his mother-in-law at the time_ of the seance. But
Miss Carrie Lippitt had been dead less than two years. In her lifetime,
unless the message was a lying one, she kept her mother's birthday. How,
then, can General Lippitt be justified in feeling sure that no one knew it 1
One can imagine many ways in which it may have come to the medium's
knowledge. She may, for instance, have known a servant who was in the
house when the birthday was being kept.
There are few facts about any of us so secret that we can feel sure no one
knows them, and we may be-probably are-frequently astonished by Bome
out-of-the-way bit of knowledge displayed about us. It is obviously the
interest of fraudulent mediums to collect such information in order to
astonish their sitters, amI therefore, I think that, under ordinary circum-
stances, but little importance ought to be attached to extraordinary
knowledge shown by mediums 1vhef~ it is selected by themselves. General
Lippitt would have been rightly impressed if, without any leading up or
prompting on the part of the medium, he had asked what was the date of
his wife's birthday, and been answered correctly-and still more so if he had
asked for the birthday of some one entirely unconnected with him, which ho
happened accidentally to know. Hut this is very different from what actually
happened, when the information was selected and offel:ed by the medium
(or spirit) herself. General Lippitt relies on his having been unknown to
the medium, but in this, as I implied before, I cannot but think that
he shows too much modesty. -I am, sir, your obedient servant,
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCmCAL RESEARCH.
DEAR SIR, - The last number of the J01~rnal containing the experiences
of General Lippitt I have read, and must express my regret that they should
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. [July. 1888.
have been published, as I fear the Society is likely to be brought into ridicule
by gravely putting such things forth, unless it be a\'owedly done to show
the boundless credulity of believers in Spiritualism.
Apart from all preconceptions on the question, and from the fact that
most of the medium!! concerned are detected impostors, the internal evidence
afforded by the narrative itself is amply sufficient to satisfy any cool-headed
person of the impostures practised, and of the hopelessness of expecting
persons like General Lippitt, who have surrendered their reason to their
imagination, to be influenced in their conclusions by any facts whatever.
I have not time to go through the numerous pOints in the story to which
I refer. and, besides, nearly every one who reads it will be able to see them
for themselves; but there is just one matter I cannot help alluding to.
When the deceased wife or daughter of Mr. Lippitt appeared to him they
received liim with" an sffectionate embrace" ! Why. in the name of wonder,
did be not hold 0'16'1 If he bad, and the manifestation were genuine. one of
two things must have happened: either the materialised form would have
melted away in his arms. or else he would have had what we may trust
would have been the satisfaction of drawing his wife home again to the
family circle. In either case the truth of Spiritualism would have been
demonstrated once for all to the confusion of all scoffers. There is. of
course, the possibility of the other alternative-that the materialisation
might have proved to be that of the medium or an accomplice. In that
case I suppose the General would have considered it to be a case of .. trans-
figuration" I-Yours truly, THOMAS BARKWORTB.
West Hatch. Chigwell, Essex.
June 16th, 1888.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The follo11,.jllg additiO'lts hate bee16 made since the last list (Journal for
December):-
*HUBBELL (Walter) The Haunted House: A True Ghost Story
Saint John, N.B., 18';9
tOLIPHANT (Laurence) Scientific Religion .....................Edittburgh. 1888
tPROCEEDINGS of the American Society for Psychical Research, No.3
Bostmt. 1887
§SPIRlTUALIST (Index to the) Including Vols. I. to XX., and its
Monthly Continuation PSYCHE (Vol. XXI.) •.................Lo'ltdO'll, 1888
IICHAZARAIN (Dr.) Les Couranta de la Polarite dansl'aimant et dans Ie
corps humain ...................................•.....................•..PaN, 1887
DE FONVIELLE (W.) Les Endormeurs, 18 Verite sur les Hypnotisants,
les Suggestionistes, les Magnetiseul"s, les Donatistes, etc. ...PaN. 1887
DE LAGRAVE (Dr. Costa)Hypnotisme: Etata intermediaires entre Ie
Sommeil et la Veille ....................................•........•.....Paris. 1888
FONTAN (Dr. J.) et SEGARD (Dr. Ch.) Elements de Medecine
Suggestive ......•...........•.....•........•................................Pans, 1887
liRICHET (Prof. Charles) La Physiolo~ie et la M6decine ............Paris, 1888
IIDESSOIR (Max) Bibliographie des Modernen Hypnotismus ......Berlin, 1888
·Presented by Mr. H. Wedgwood. tPresented by Mr. O. C. Massey.
:::Presented by the American S.P.R. §Preaented by Mr. Oharles Blackbum.
IIPreaented by the Author.
Digitized by Google
