{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 2798","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n53_oct_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N53 October 1888","mylang":"de"}
No. LlII.-VoL. Ill. OCTOBER, 188!!.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
New Members and Associates ..
Meeting of the Council ..
CONTENTS.
General Meeting .. . . . . . . ..
Cases supplied to the Literary Committee ..
Jo.xplanation of Mysterious Sounds ..
Correspondence . . . . . . . .
Supplementary Library Catalogue ..
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
BALFOUR, LADY FRANCES, 32, Addison-road, London, W.
TAKAROFF, LEON, M.D., 49, Eaton·squarp, London, S.W.
ASSOCIATES.
BUTCHER, MISS, 22, Collingham-plac~, London, S.W.
PAGB
•• 805
.. 805
.. 806
.. 807
.. 811
.. 812
.. 820
PARRY, REV. WILLIAM EDWARDS, 286, Upland Road, Dulwich, S.E.
SMITH, MISS J. M., 56, Longridge-road, London, S.W.
SWANWICK, MISS ANNA, 23, Cumberland-terrace, London, N.W.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council held at the Society's Rooms, on July
16th, the following Members were present :-The President (in the
chair), Professor W. F. Barrett, Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. F. W. H.
Myers, Frank Podmore, and H. Arthur Smith.
It was proposed by the President, 'seconded by Mr. H. Arthur
Smith, and unanimously carried, that Mr. F. W. H. Myers and Mr.
Frank Podmore be appointed joint Hon. Secretaries of the Society.
It was also agreed that Professor H. Sidgwick should be the Editor
of printed matter circulated by the Society.
Two Jlew Members and four new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected.
Votes of thanks were passed to Mrs. Gurney for the present of a
nun:ber of books to the Society, and also to Mrs. Myers for a donation
of .£5 to the Funds.
Various matters of routine business were attended to.
It was agreed that a General Meeting of the Society should be held
in November, and that the next Meeting of the Council should be on
September 28th. •
306 Journal oj Society j(»' Psychical Research. [Oct., 1888.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town Hall on
July 16th.
The President gave a brief survey of the work of the Society since
its foundation, dwelling chiefly on the methods of investigation.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then read a paper on "French Experiments on
Strata of Personality," reviewing especially certain recent experi-
ments of Professor Pierre Janet's with Madame B., the hypnotic
subject already so often referred to, and into certain other subjects.
The method adopted by Professor Janet has been to observe the
ooconsci(JU8 actions which the subject performs, in any phase of per-
sonality, and to try to discover whether these unconscious actions are
recollected by her in any other phase of personality. Thus it is now &
familiar fact that actions which are performed in the waking state, but
in obedience to a post-hypnotic suggestion, are apt to be forgotten in
the waking state, and remembered only when the subject re-enters the
hypnotic state. Madame B. is for convenience sake styled
Leonie in her waking state, and Leontine in her hypnotic state.
As we should expect, therefore, Leontine has a chain of memories which
Leonie does not share. And these memories cover so large a part of
Madame B.'s life, owing to the frequency of her hypnotic trances, that
by this time Leontine almost rivals the "second state" of the
celebrated Felida X. But there are SO'In6 unconscious actions of
Leonie's which Leontine does not remember. And there are uncon-
scious actions of Leontine's also, none of which are remembered by
Leonie. It is found that by prolonging the process of hypnotisation,
Madame B. is brought into a third state, to which the name of Leonore
)las been given, in which all the unconscious actions, both of Leonie
and of Leontine, are fully remembered. And Leonore again performs
certain unconscious actions' which neither Leonie nor Leontine
remember, but which Leonore herself remembers when, as occasionally
happens, she enters a state of apparent ecstasy. From this and
similar cases it was argued that the most significant indication of
differences in various hypnotic states is to be found in differences of
the range of memory. and that the state in which the range of memory
is the most extensive,-the state which includes the memories of other
states, but is not included by them-has a primA, facie claim to be
considered as the profUl.llTtdest state of the subject, though it may not
be the state best suited for the ordinary business of life.
The paper was illustrated by a diagram of Madame B.'s several
states of personality.
A discussion followed, in which several members took part, turning
mainly on the differences of character observable in the different states,
and the relation of each state to the complete individual.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1888.] JO'Urnal of Society for P8'!Jchical Research. 307
CASES SUPPLIED TO THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
[The following case belongs to the very important" transitional" class
between experimental and spontaneous telepathy of which instances are
given in Phanta8ml of the Livi-.g, Vol. I., pp. 103-109, and pp. lxxxi.·
lxxxiv., cases in which the impreBBion intentionally conveyed to the
percipient's mind externaliBeB itself in an hallucination of the senSeB. The
present case dift'ers from the contemporary caseB recorded in Phantamu in
that the agent was awake. We first heard of the case orally from the
agent, Baron Albert von Schrenck-Notzing, secretary of the P"!/cIwlogilche
Guell.chaft at Munich, and Corresponding Member to our own Society.-En.]
THE PERCIPIENT'S ACCOUNT.
There is not much to tell concerning the incident of which you ask me to
give an account. It happened thus :-Baron Schrenck was returning home
one night in March (or April, I am not sure as to the date), about 11.30,
and stood for some time outside my bedroom window, which looked on to
the street. I was in bed at the time, lying with closed eyes, nearly asleep.
It seemed to me as if the part of the roonl where my bed was had become
suddenly light, and I felt compelled to open my eyes, seeing at the same
time, as it appeared to me, the face of Baron Schrenck. It was gone again
as quick as lightning. The next day I told my friend Fraulein Prieger of
this occurrence; she went skating that same day, and met Baron Schrenck on
the ice. They had scarcely conversed together five minutes before he asked
Fraulein Prieger if I had seen anything last night. Fraulein Prieger
repeated what I had told her, whereupon Baron Schrenck said that, at the
time of my seeing him, he was standing outside my window, trying hard to
impreBB his presence upon me. This never occurred again, and I believe
Baron Schrenck did not have occasion to repeat the experiment.
This was written on May 11th, 1888. In a further letter Miss ---
adds (I) that the blinds of her room were drawn down, (2) that she has
experienced no other hallucination of any kind.
[Baron von Schrenck sent us his written account and that of Fraulein
Prieger in June, 1888, written in German, and what we print below are
translatioI1s. They were written independently of MiBB --'s, and it will
be seen that Fraulein Prieger and Miss -- disagree as to when the latter
first described her experience, showing how impossible it is to rely on the
memory for details, even after little more than a year's interval. It is a
point on which Fraulein Prieger is most likely to be right, since she would
be more impreBBed by beiug awoken than MiBB -- would by awaking her.
In any case, there seems to be no doubt as to the experience having been
described before Fraulein Prieger met Baron von Schrellck.]
FRAULEIN PRIEGER'S ACCOUNT.
The winter before last, shortly after Christmas, I was suddenly awakened
in the night, between II and 12 O'clock, by my friend --, who asked me
in an excited manner if I al80 saw Baron von Schrenck, who was close by
her bed. On my objecting that ahe had been dreaming, and tthould now
Digitized by Google
308 JOU1"nal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oot, 1888.
quietly go to sleep again, she repeated that she had been completely awake,
and had seen Baron von Schrenck so close to her that she could have caught
hold of his beard. By degrees she quieted herself, and we both went to
sleep.
The following day, on my way home from the ice, I told Baron von
Schrenck of this exciting nocturnal scene, and noticed to my not slight
astonishment that he seemed greatly rejoiced, as though over a successful
experiment, which had received its completion in what I communicated
to him.
My interest in the whole occurrence increased from the moment when
Baron von Schrenck related the following to me. LINA PRIEGER.
Guhelsbergerstrasse, 15 I.
. THE AGENT's ACCOUNT.
In the winter of 1886-87, I think it was in the month of February, as I
was going along the Barerstrasse one evening at half-past 11, it occurred
to me to make an attempt at influencing at a distance, through mental con-
centration. As I had bad, for some time, the honour of being acquainted
with the family of Herr --, and thus had had the opportunity of learning
that his daughter Fraulein -- was sensitive to psychical influences, I
decided to try to influence her, especially as the family lived at the corner
of the Barerstrasse and Karlstrasse. The windows of the dwelling were
dark as I passed by, from which I concluded tbat the ladies had already gone
to rest. I then stationed myself by the wall of the houses on the opposite
side of the road, and for about five minutes firmly concentrated my thoughts
on the following desire :-Frli.ulein -- shall wake and think of me. Then
I went home. The next day when I met Fraulein --'s friend on the ice, I
learnt from her (they shared a bedroom between them) th",t something
strange had happened to the ladies during the preceding night. I remarked
thereupon to Friulein Prieger (such was the friend's name) that the time when
tbe occurrence took place was between half-past 11 and 12; whereat she was
greatly astonished. Then I obtained from the lady an account of the
circumstance, as she herself has written it out on the accompaning sheet of
paper. For me the success of this experiment was a proof that under
certain circumStances, Ol1e person can influence another at a distance.
ALBERT FREIHERR VON SCHRENCK-NOTZING.
CASE OF THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
The discrepancies in the following narratives are noteworthy: but
~hey do not seem to affect the main point in which both narratives
agree :-viz., that letters were obtained through movements of a table,
which were the initials of a name that was the correct aDswer to a
question unknown to the persons sitting at the table. Incidents of this
kind may perhaps be explained-like the results obtained by M. Richet
under somewhat similar conditions (see Phantasms of the Living,
Vol. I., pp. 72-81, and Proceedinglf, Part XII., pp. 38-46)-as cases
of thought-transference, though in the present case the" thought" on the
Digitized by Google
Oct.. 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Re8em'ch. 309
agent'. side was partly latent. The method of experiment-the result
being given by automatic movements or automatic writings on the part of
the percipient-is one which we are specially anxious to aee widely
adopted. It seems probable that examples of thought-transference may
be thus obtained by persons who would not succeed in any other way.
From Mr. W. S. D. Hunter, 31, Leicester-street, Southport.
May 30th, 1888.
I had just returned from a 10 years' residence in India and had been
accompanied from Bombay by my cousin, Jack Stuart.
At Hastings we had had several s6a.nces with his sister and her husband,
and out of a mass of nonsense we had had some very extraordinary replies
and "communications." Both Jack and myself were complete infidels as
regards belief in Spiritualism, though we were keen inquirers.
On returning to London, to my mother's house in Kensington, I told her
all that had happened and how very much surprised I was, and at the same
time curious about it all, and she begged me to get Jack to come up some
evening and have a s6ance.
The table used W&8 an ordinary small" Teapoy" that stood in the room.
After a few minutes, working and questions, my mother proposed that we
should try and answer questions without knowing what they (the questions)
were,
In the meantime I asked the table "who" was influencing it, and at
once the name of " Minna" was given. This, I may say, was ful~1J anticipated
by me, Minna being my favourite sister who died in India, and up to then
the only direct link with the" other world" that I had, and being a great
favourite with my parents I had told my mother that this name would moat
certat'nly be given, although when working with Jack at other places his
dead brother's name bad invariably appeared. I take this to be that on this
occasion I had the stronger feeling in question, and, therefore, the stronger
wiU. Anyway "Minna,. having been given, my· mother appeared much
aft'ected and went to the end of the room to write a question. Whilst
she was thinking I casually remarked that, if possible, the question
should be one that neither Jack nor I could answer if we laW. it. My mother
then said she had written a question, and, having folded the paper, asked
my father to hold it. He took the paper with great compullction, as he
considered the proceedings altogether "uncanny" and partaking of the
blaclc art. Neither Jack nor I saw the question, and I then said to the table
had it seen the question and would it give the answer. The reply was three
motions, which we took to be Yes, and I then said, "Well, go on," and
then the following letters were given out, the table stopping after each
one:-
ApharriBOn.
When it stopped for good I laughed, and said rot, but on looking at my
mother, who was still at the writing-table, I saw she was much aft'ected, and
only said, "My God, it's true," or some such words. She, however, was
apparently doubtful about something, and left the room, and on return
brought a letter signed by "A. P. Harrison."
Digitized by Google
310 J01.M-nal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1888.
I took the question from my father, and it was, "What was the name of
the nurse who nursed you in your last illness 1"
"Now, I may say that my cousin Jack, living in Burmah,coulU not possibly
have known the name, nor did I, having been in Scinde at the time, whilst
my sister died in Guzerat, and that this nurse was a soldier's wife, taken
haphazard out of the regiment to which my sister's husband belonged, and it
appears that at my sister's dying request this nurse had written a few lines
to my mother, giving particulars of the death, &C.
My mother had forgotten the exact initials, hence her going upstairs to
find the original letter.
At this lapse of time this is about all I can remember, and I think the
name and initials I give are the correct ones, though that has little to do
with the fact that the correct answer to a question was given, and that
neither Jack or I, had we Been the question, could have answered it. I have
not had many chances of making further researches in this line in India
since, but of what little I have done I have never had anything that has
puzzled me more than the instance I have given you; as I am positively
certain of the good faith of all concerned in the experiment. My cousin Jack
followed the matter up in a general way afterwards, even to the extent of
going to professional "media," spirit photographers, &c.; but his final
opinion given me was that the bulk was fraud.
My own impression is that some sort of " force" exists of which we know
little or nothing, and that my mother beillg in the room influenced, say, me
to give the answer; or I, as it were, picked her brains for the answeI'.
W. S. D. HUNTER.
The following account of the same incident was sent to us in 1883,
by Mrs. Hunter, 2, Victoria Crescent, St. Helier's, Jersey, mother
of Mr. W. S. D. Hunter, whose evidence was given quite independently.
The medium was my nephew, just returned from Burmah. He was an
unbeliever, but the sudden death of a very much younger brother, to whom
he was much attached, set him to find out, in some way, whether there was
really" life beyond the grave," and he got among the London Spiritualists,
and, strange to say, developed great powers as a medium. My younger son
visited him and his family at Hastings, and on his return told us most wonder-
ful stories of "JacJ:&" prowess. [The account goes on to describe some
messages purporting to come from the little brother above mentioned and a
deceased daughter of Mrs. Hunter's, all completely explicable as examples of
" automatic writing."] But my nephew said all this pro'IJ6d nothing. Could
she [the deceased daughter] answer any question known only to herself and
her mother 1 "Gladly." J. then told me to go to the other end of the room
and to write my question and show it to no one. I withdrew and tried to
think of some former secret j but my poor head and heart were full of pain.
'At last I thought of something,-the name of the nurse who had attended
her in her last illness, and from whom I had had a nice letter, which I
had preserved with all the other sad memorials. Harrison, I wrote. "Could
she answer my thought 1" "YeB, YeB." First came "0," then" P." "No
no," I cried, "it is all wrong." "Stop this dreadful work," cried my
Digitized by Google
Oct.,I888.] JO'U'M'W.l Of Society for Psychical Research. all
husband, and so our s6ance ended. But all night long the walls of my room
resounded with mocle,. Sll'ep was impo8Bible; and next morning my SOD
told me of a similar experience in hiB room, far away from mine.
After breakfast the desire to inspect my sealed packed of "Memorials"
became irresistible. I opened them, and there the first thing that came was
the letter of the nurse, signed in a firm hand, O. P. Harrison. To be quite
sure, I went to my husband and asked him, " What were the letters spelt out
last 1" At once he said "0 and P." On telling my nephew, he remarked
that there was, after all, some small satisfaction got out of our seance, more
than out of many he had held. The odd part of this iB that I had entirely
forgotten, indeed hardly remarked, Mrs. Harrison's Christian name, and,
moreover, my elder daughter said, on hearing my story, "I am almost
certain our poor darling didn't know it either. She and I always called her
Nurse or Mrs. B." Nl'ither my nephew nor son knew I had such a letter,
and my husband never supposed I had kept it for 80 many years.
H. C. HUNTER.
In a recent letter(August 8th, 1888) Mrs. Hunter says of the discrepancies
()bservable in these accounts: "My account is the correct one. My son has
mixed up what ha.ppened next day with our s6ance. I used the expre8Bion
'It i& true, then!' on finding the letters O. P. in the signature next
morning. The date was in December or end of November, 1876."
EXPLANATION OF MYSTERIOUS SOUNDS.
I record the following circumstances merely because I think they may be
useful as affording a hint towards the investigation of certain claSBes of
apparently mysterious circumstances.
In the winter of 1867 I was living in a roomy old-fashioned house in
Wiltshire. Many people will recollect the severity of that winter, and in
particular the bitter cold of that Christmas Eve.
On that intensely cold afternoon, my father-in-law, Mr. D., started from
London and travelled by a very slow train stopping at every station, and not
reaching the town where I lived till quite late in the evening. The result of
that journey to him was a severe attack of bronchitis. He was confined to
his bed for some days, and we were getting rather anxious as to the prospect
()f his recovery.
One night I had occasion to go downstairs rather late and saw a. light in
the pantry, a small room on the ground floor, without a fire-place and paved
with stone. I knew no one had any business there, so I went to see what
was the matter and there found all our servants sitting working. I said at
()nce, "What brings you all here this bitter cold night when you have a
warm, comfortable kitchen to sit in 1" I was met with the reply, " Oh, sir,
we daren't sit there. There's a horrible noise there every night. We never
hear it in the daytime. Weare sure Mr. D. is going to die."
I said, " What nonsense! Come into the kitchen, and let me hear it."
So we went there. On the way I asked what 80rt of a noise it was, and
where it seemed to come from. I was told that it sounded like a woman very
far off screaming in pain, but that they could not find where it came from.
Digitized by Google
312· Journal of Society for P8ychical Rf'-Bearch. [Oct., 1888.
When it seemed in one place and they went there, it moved to another; and
when they went there it moved somewhere else, and so on. There was the
noise, sure enough. An uncanny sound of a small voice of some one in pain at
a distance, or, rather, as if it came through a wall. I listened attentively, and
felt sure it came from the scullery. I went there, and it sounded back in the
kitchen, near the chimney. I went there, and it sounded in the cellar.
I went to the top of the cellar steps, and then I was certain it was
just outside the back door. I went out, and immediately it was back in the
kitchen. I came into the kitchen again thoroughly pnzzled. I stood and
listened awhile more carefully than ever, and then it struck me that the
sound came at regular intervals. "Ha.," thought I, "I've caught you now."
I took out my watch and found it came exactly once in three seconds. This
I felt sure indicated that the sound must be due to some mechanical cause.
I looked all round the room to see what mechanism there was at work, and
my eye soon rested on a gas meter affixed to the wa.H about 12ft. above the
floor. I soon had a table placed under it and a chair on that, and mounting
up applied my ear to the meter. There it was. It was a water meter, and
somehow the valve had got rusty, and every time so many feet of gas had
passed through the meter the valve went over, and scrooped as it went. I
explained this to the maids, and told them to mount the chair after I was
gone and listen for themselves.
Of course the sound had never been heard in the daytime, as the gas was
not turned on and the valve was still till dark. A few days afterwards I
inquired about it and found that the servants were satisfied; but the noise
was never heard after that night, and my father-in-law began at once to get
well. I suppose one of the servants when listening had shaken the meter,.
and so altered the position of the valve that the friction was removed, and
that the crisis in the illness of our patient had occurred about the same time.
Perhaps this account may supply a hint as to the mechanical causes of many-
mysterious sounds.
THOMAS E. CULLAN, M.A.,
Late Chaplain to Sussex County Asylum, Haywards Heath, Sussex.
CORRESPONDENCE.
NELLIE MORRIS.
[The following correspondence has beeu placed in my hands by Mr.
Vaughan Jenkins (Associate of the S.P.R.), with a view to its being
printed here. It relates to the case of Nellie Morris, communicated to
the June number of this Jowrnal by Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace. I am
unable to find room for the whole correspondence, but I have thought it
best to print Mr. Wallace's letters in full,-partly on account of his scientific
eminence, partly because I disagree with his arguments and conclusions,
and should therefore be afraid of not doing justice to the former, if
I attempted to abridge them. Of the other letters only portions are
printed.-ED.]
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1888.] Journal 0/ Society /0". Psychical Resea".ch. 313
The correspondence begins with a letter addressed by Mr. Vaughan
Jenkins to Mr. Wallace.
Energlyn,.St. Margaret's-road, Oxford.
June 21st, 1888.
DEAR SIR,-
* * * * * *
Until I read General Lippitt's statemelJts my conception of the
Spiritualistic theory of materialisation was-that taking it for granted that
we shall live after death, ill a spiritual body ... why cannot these
spirits in the form of apparitions or spectres return as they are alleged so
to have done by many-to visit their friends whom they have left behind
them 1 Such appearances, subject to the premise, would be conceivably
possible, and the objection to the physical obstruction of stone walls, &c.,
would not arise. But the young ladies who" came" to the General came
in their own prior natural bodies fully organised, and in violation
of all known cosmic laws and conditions. There is nothing
ill their actions or conduct that differs from any ordinary human
beings, they convllrsed freely on all mundane subjects, they answered all
ordinary questions, they sang when requested, and Nellie even stood to
compare measurements. She conversed for a long time, two or three
members of the circle taking part therein. She actually shivered at the
recollection of her having died on a cold day" in January." She was
sensitive to flattery. She modestly shook hands, and to crown all·-to prove
her identity and her identification with her own former earthly self . •
Nellie, with her' own "hand, before retiring," (1) "cut off for me a
lock of her hair, which I have carefully preserved." . Materialised
Nellie does not altogether vanish, or retire! She leaves a permanent
sample portion of her corporeal entity behind her. Still the
anomalous fact remains that Nelly's mortal body, her hair included,
was at the time of her alleged materialisation, and for four years pre-
viously, slowly being resolved into its original elements to unite with
and form new physical combinations..
* * * * * *
I know and feel that I ought to obey the law of evidence, and to accept
the General's confirmed unimpeachable testimony, but my inability to
reconcile the apparently irreconcilable is my present stumbling-block.
Personally, I dismiss from my mind any idea of personation, psychic
illusion, or hallucination, or collusion of any kind whatever in connectioll
with General Lippitt's manifestations-hence my greater difficulty. If,
therefore, at any time that may be convenient to you, you would kindly favour
me with any helpful information in my struggle for a belief, I shall be very
grateful to you. E. VAUGHAN JENKINS.
MR. A. R. WALLACE'S REPLY.
Firth Hill, Godalming.
June 26th, 1888.
E. VAUGHAN JENKINS, Esq.
DEAR SIR,-You have evidently formed erroneous ideas of what
" materialisation " is. No Spiritualist believes it to be "the real body" of
314 J~ of Society for Psychical, Research. [Oct.,I888.
the individual, or even "a real body" in one sense of the term. It is
4Omethi:ng temporarily material for purposes of' identification; but what
exactly no one can tell All the information we can get shows that it is
formed partly (often chie1ly) from the body of the medium, partly from the
bodies of the persons present, or from their "atmosphere" or emanations
and that the likeness to any individual is produced by an effort which is not
always successful, since, during the same evening, the same spirit-form
pometimes appears in very different degrees of likeness to his mortal body;
.sometimes more like the medium, hence many of the accusations of imposture.
A little book called KaterialUed. Apparition" by Mr. E. Brackett, published
at Boston, and which you can probably get from Burns, Southampton-
row, will give you much information on the nature and pecUliarities of
these forms and the conditions under which they appear. I met Mr. Brackett
in Boston, and can testify to the honesty,ability, and earnestness of the man
and of his book. The permanent materialilation. of hair and portions of
garment is very extraordinary. Sometimes such things do vanish away,
either rapidly or gradually, but in other cases both remain. The hai,. I had
here, but have now returned it to General Lippitt. All we can at present do
is to make sure of the facta. The laws of the phenomena we may never
know till we are spirits ourselves, aud not, perhaps, even then. Can we tell,
really, how we move our bands and fingers to write and express our thoughts 1
Spirits do not appear to be able to tell us howthey materialise. It is a faculty
exercised by the will-power of lOme spirits, and is probably quite as rare and
remarkable and inexplicable among them as physical mediumship is among
us.-Believe me, yours faithfully,
ALFRED R. WALLAC&
P.S.-The appearance of the double of any living person, sometimes to
two or more witnesses, seems analogous to materialisation, and the person
whose double appears has no conception hOlO it iI done. Neither have the
spirits who materialise, except that it seems to be more directly a matter of
will with them. See Phanta&m, of the Living.-A. R. W.
Copies of theBe letters having been forwarded to Mrs. Sidgwick, she
replied to Mr. Vaughan Jenkins.
'If 'If 'If 'If 'If 'If
I quite agree with you as to the great difficulty of fitting in a belief in
materialisations with our knowledge either of matter or of spirit. If
materialisations be proved, we must accept them and arrange our theory of
the universe to suit them. But it does not appear to me that at present
they have been proved . . . that is, it does not appear to me that in the
evidence hitherto presented there is snfficient proof that the supposed
materialisation is neither the medium nor an accomplice, and that no trick
is beillg played upon us. I am impressed with the fact that such men as Mr.
Wallace and General Lippitt should be convinced, but I cannot perceive that
tl\e evidence brought forward by them is any exception to this general rule,
.as I have tried to explain in the Jnly number of the Journal.
ELEANOR M. SIDGWICK,
'If
* 'If 'If 'If 'If
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 315
Firth Hill, Godalming.
JIIly 16th, 1888.
E. VAUGHAN JENKINS, Esq.
DEAR Snt,-Mrs. Sidgwick is right from her point of view-that nothing
is to be accepted that can possibly be explained away by imposture, however
complicated and difficult. But she is not fair in passing over the evidence of
facts, and especially the evidence of the genuineness of the mediums as
opposed to the mere accusations and assertions against them. The best
thing to be done is to adduce morefacts proving the reality of the phenomena,
and I have fortunately just received from General Lippitt copies of a
pamphlet by him which does this admirably for one of the mediums
concerned. As I feel sure it will interest you, I send it you by post, and
you can return it to me at your leisure. A copy of the pamphlet was sent to
Mr. Gurney, so most likely Mr. Myers and Mrs. Sidgwick will be able to
see it. I am, however, doubtful whether they will admit either article.
What they ought to do, if they want to put the evidence fairly before the
members of the Society, would be to reprint the General's pamphlet entire,
as it contains a mau of valuable facts, and shows besides how utterly untnut-
worthy are the reports of the Seybert Commission, which, in the last part of
the Proceedings, Mr. Myers commends as valuable and conclusive.-Believe
me, yours faithfully,
ALFRED R. WALLACE.
Hill Side, Chesterton-road, Cambridge.
J?dy 18th, 1888.
E. VAUGHAN JENKINS, Esq.
DEAR SIR,-I am much obliged to you for letting me see Mr. Wallace's
letter, which I return. I do not feel that I quite understand his statement
that I "pass over the evidence for facts, and especially the evidence of the
genuineness of the mediulUs as opposed to the mere accusations and assertions
against them." It was, I thought, the evidence for facts that I examined in
my letter to the July Journal. And the second part of the sentence I have
quoted seems to me to involve a certain confusion. I will try to explain
what I mean. All mankind is for each of us divided into three classes.
There is a small class, differing for each of us, about whom we feel that the
hypothesis of conscious fraud is absurd. There is another small class about
whom we feel sure that they have been guilty of, or might be guilty of,
deliberate fraud. There is a third and much larger class, about whom we
cannot tell whether if temptation came in their way they would cheat or not.
Now, some people think that they have positive evidence placing Mrs. Beste
and others of the mediums employed by General Lippitt in the second-or
known-to-be-fraudulent class. Mr. Wallace distrusts the facts and asser-
tions brought forward by these witnesses, and does not think the fraud
Vroved. But, supposing his distrust were well-founded, that would not
place the mediums in the class above suspicion, as Mr. Wallace, in the
sentence I have quoted, seems to imply. It would only place them in the
large class about whom we cannot tell whether they would cheat or not,
while it is known that they have strong pecuniary inducements to cheat.
Digitized by Google
316 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct.,1.88I!.
In my letter I was careful to base no argument on the assumption that
fraud had been proved against the mediums in question, only on the assump-
tion that they are not above suspicion.
* * * * * *
I think that Mr. Wallace and General Lippitt do not allow enough for
the ease with which one's senses may be deceived, and that, in consequence,
they would probably have been equally convinced by the seance for
materialisation described in our Proceeding', Part IV., pp. 482-485, if they
believed Mr. Davey to be a medium: and indeed you may remember that
Mr. Wallace was convinced that certain performances, under the auspices of
Dr. Lynn (at the Westminster Aquarium, I think), were SpiritUl\listic.
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK.
E. VAUGHAN JENKINS, Esq. July 31st, 1881.
DEAR SIR,-Mrs. Sidgwick's exposition of her point of view is very
interesting, but there seeIllS to me a weakness of fallacy in it as she applies
it. If we assume, to begin with, that mediums are all imposters, and that
no fact in Spiritualism has been proved, I admit that Mrs. Sidgwick is right.
But she puts forth this argument while igrwring the direct evidence for the
facts, and it is of this that I complain. While urging the possibility of
imposture in General Lippitt's case she ignored Mr. Lyman's direct evidence
of phenomena with one of the mediuIllS concerned (Mrs. Beste), which cannot
be explained by imposture, and she ignores the whole maas of test evidence
in private houses, where confederates and machinery are excluded, and yet
where things occur which only confederates or machinery could produce if
thete is no reality in the phenomena. Now, we have other evidence in
General Lippitt's pamphlet of the genuineness of another medium (Keeler).
Yet we are asked to believe that these mediums, who are proved to have
power to produce genuine phenomena, yet systematically conspire with
imposters to produce sham phenomena. This, I urge, is contrary to human
nature. The person who possesses exceptional powers of any kind does not
enter into elaborate collusion for fraudulent purposes with others who only
pretend to have these powers. Their interests are all against it. Why
should they risk their reputation, on which their living depends, by entering
into elaborate conspiracy with many other mediums, involving constant
correspondence and systematic records, on the chance of being able to
deceive certain persons 1 And the chance is very slender, for how could any
of these seven mediums (except, perhaps, one ortwo) tell that General Lippitt
would ever visit them, or how could they have the necessary preparations
made against his chance visit-t.he presence, for example, of the two girls
who are supposed to have represented his daughter and Nellie Morris 1
And all this to produce by fraud that which they have power to produce
by genuine means! Once demonstrate that genuine mediuIllShip exists
in any case, and the whole argument of assuming imposture in every
case falls to the ground. Again, skilful imposture carried on for years
requires faculties of an exceptional kind and long practice. But, almost
without exception, mediums begin as children or young persons j their powers
are at a maximum in youth, and usually diminish with mature years. This
is directly opposed to the fact as to skill in jugglery-which is a rather rare
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1888.J Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 317
faculty, never seen in perfection in youth. Mediums, on the other hand,
are often very ignorant, commonplace and clumsy persons. Their whole lives
are often known. They usually begin by exhibiting their powers in other
people's houses, where imposture and confederacy would be most difficult,
and only when they have thus obtained a reputation find it more profitable
to give seances chiefly in their own houses. All these, and mRlly other facts,
Mrs. Sidgwick ignores in order to uphold her assumption of the absence of
evidence and the extreme probability of imposture. I maintain that the
existence of the power of mediurruJhip being proved, there is no more special
presumption of imposture here than in regard to other faculties. As I
said in my preliminary note, the evidence in the case of "Nellie Morris"
will have 110 weight with those who deny that any mediumship exists or 1.8
possible; but if the fact of mediumship is held to be proved in any cases,
then the evidence in this case becomes very strong if not conclusive.
I do not think I ever said I was convinced that some of Dr. Lynn's
exhibitions (through another performer) were Spiritualistic, but it seemed to
myself and others probable that he had engaged the services of a remarkable
physical medium. I know a young man wbo combines thought-reading and
conjuring very skilfully.-Yours very truly,
ALFRED R. WALLACE.
E. VAUGHAN JENKINS, Esq.
DEAR SIR,--Mr. Wallace's letter makes me think that I have somewhat
misunderstood his position. I bad thought that he brought forward the
Nellie Morris case as evidence of the genuineness of materialisations and of
spirit communications, adapted to COlivince persons whose judgment on the
general question was still in suspense, and it was from this point of view
that I criticised it. This case, so regarded, still appears to me evidentially
valueless, because the possibility of trickery was not adequately excluded. But
if Mr. Wallace brought forward the case as an interesting one to those who
feel able to start with the assumption that the meJiums concerned are
genuine, I am ready to admit that it does not in itself contain positive
proof of imposture, any more than it contains proof of the absence of it.
I do not, however, think that the hypothesis of trickery requires so
elaborate a conspiracy with correspondence, &c., as Mr. Wallace suggests.
The mediums in question seem to go about a good deal and may not
improbably have met and imparted the required information in casual
conversation. ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK.
P.S.-With regard to the conjuring performance at the Westminster
Aquarium, Mr. Wallace, I think, will find that his exact words were, "I
must say I believe" the performer to be a real medium.-See Spiritualist,
August 17th, 1877.
The following letter relates to the same subject.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SJI~,-I think the IlJembers and associates of the Society for Psychical
Research ha,'e great reason to be grateful for the publication of Mr. Wallace's
communication.
318 Journal 0/Society /0'1' P81Jchical Research. [Oct., 1888.
Nothing could bring out more clearly, on the one hand, the willingness of
the Society to listen to any evidence that may be offered, and, on the other
hand, the total contrast that there is between those phenomena which form
the ordinary staple of the journals; those phenomena, that is to say, which
are the subject of the researches prosecuted by the Society, and such occur-
rences as those which are detailed by General Lippitt.
It appears very odd that it should not have struck General Lippitt that
whereas it was very possible for any medium to ascertain his first wife's birth-
day, it was not possible for his departed daughter to have a recollection of
the way in which he and she used to keep her mother's birthday, because-
(as he informs us) they had not ever kept it in any way whatever since the
child had been two years old, and that this made it very curious indeed that
the first thing his daughter'S spirit wanted to say to him was that they VJ6nt
on doing in the other world what they had not ~ in this. (See pp. 285~
287.}-1 am, sir, yours truly, E. B. BIRKS.
Trinity College, Cambridge, July 13th, 1888.
MULTIPLEX PERSONALITY.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL REsEARCH_
DEAR SIR,--In the very interesting paper read by Mr. Myers on
July 16th, it appeared to me that while great streu was laid upon differences
of memory between Leonie, Leontine, and Leonore, he did not lay enough
upon the differences of character, which seem to me more surprising still. It
was suggested that the difference between her aSBumption of different
personalities in various stages of hypnotism, and that of the boys on whom
Mr. Smith experimented, was perhaps due to a telepathic impreuion of
different personalities in her doctor's mind; but it would be interesting to-
know in this CAse if the doctor had also a telepathic conception of the
character belonging to the personality. Otherwise the change of character
seems more analogous to that produced after indulgence in the habit of
drink, which seems <at least, with women) to Inake a truthful person a liar~
and a modest one coarse. I have known the same kind of change produced
in a gentle and obedient little girl of nine years old, when the consumptive
disease which had been on her lungs suddenly attacked the brain, and she
became a child-maniac, without any memory of her past life, with habits and
language those of the gutter, and with abnormal muscular strength above her
knees, below which she was powerless. After some months the attack passed
away as suddenly as it had come, leaving her the same good little child she
had been before.
I <:annot help thinking that these changes of character seem rather to
point to some external influence affecting a part of our personality than to
our possessing a indefinite number of personalities wrapped up in the
sheath of the body like the coats of an onion. May I suggest a possible
theory 1 It would be that Mr. Smith's experiments point to various strata
and substrata of mental regions which can be reached separately in the
hypnotic or hysterical state, but which, when our will is active, and we are
in a nonnal condition of sane life, canllot be touched by any other hand.
That when what Mr. Myers well callI! the co.ordinating principle II! not
Digitized by Google
Oat., 1888.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. 319
allowed to work, either from hypnotism or brain or nerve disease, these
lower strata of the mind become senBitive to suggestion either from ordinary
human agents or from invisible influences, which, though sometimes morally
bad, would seem to be more often simply silly, like Uontine, and a good
many of the Bpirits whose utterances are given at Spiritualist B6ances.
If there is any possibility that thiB is the caBe, it would at once explain
why hYBterical Bubjects are the chief objeCts of scientific observation in this
region, and it would also make it a question whether it is deBirable for any
one in a condition of sanity to put himself into a condition in which the
co-ordinating principle iB paralysed. If the result in any of us were to be that
our Uontine acquired so much power over our Uonie as to take her ticket for
her and put her into the train where she did not think it right to go, or to
write postscripts to her letters, I think our upper and ordinary selves might
well complain of us for having put them into a bondage which might have
been avoided.-Yours faithfully,
M.B.
"M.. B.'s" suggestive letter raises three separate questions, two of which
seem to call only for a few explanatory words; the third points to a deeper
problem.
(1) As to the relative characters of L60nie and L60ntine, I do not
think that L60ntine is inferior to L60nie in any other way than as a
dreaming or somnambulic person is inferior to the same person
awake. L60ntine, that is to say, is less cautious, less coherent, less
adapted to the business of life than Uonie. But at the same time
she is superior in acumen, initiative, energy; and the acts (such as
taking a railway ticket) which were inconvenientorpuzzlingtoLOOnie,
were conceived in the true interest of the joint individual, though
without the restraint which L60nie's shy, self.effacing habits might
have imposed. It seems indeed that in secondary Relves, such as
Uontine, this increased elan and freedom is not unusual; but I do
not rememher any cases where a persistent secondary self, developed
by hypnotism, has been distinctly worse or lower that the primary,
(2) As to the influence of the operator's unconscious 81J{J.r16I1tion in
determining the character of Leontine, we must remember that
L60ntine, so to say, was born before Professor Janet. Mme. B. is
much older than Professor Janet, and her secondary self was first
evoked-whether by hypnotism or by some spontaneous change
we cannot now know certainly-while she was still a child.
Leontine's life then ran mainly underground for many years, and
reappeared when Dr. Gibert hypnotised the subject a few years
ago. And, on the other hand, Professor Janet's various subjects
bear no particular resemblance to each other in the somnambulic
state; nor has he, I think, any theory as to the hypnotic character
which they are about to develop. While, therefore, it seems quite
possible that in some cases the expectation or suggestion of the
operator may influence not only the isolated actions bllt the whole
Welllm of the secondary self, Leonie's case is one where this
supposition seems specially improbable.
Digitized by Google
320 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1888.
(3) As to the potISibility of poue8lion-in such a case as LOOnie's-of the
occupation, that is to say, of some one stratum of herself by an
unembodied spiritual entity ;-thissuppositionis,ofcourse,extremely
remote from the conceptions of modern science. But let us for the
sake of argument aBSume that such a thing may occur-let us
suppose that in the case of entranced "mediums" it does occur-
what, then, will be the indication which suggests such invasion 1
Surely the utterance by the entranced subject of something unknown
to him in the normal state. There must be more than a mere shift-
ing of the kaleidoscope, there must be the introduction of new forms,
new tints, in its readjudted imagery. But there is nothing of this in
Leonie's case. There is no matter of knowledge in her subjacent
personalities but what the joint personage has acquired through
ordinary channels. The saying still holds good, " Nihil in intellect?/'
quod non priU8juerit in 8en8u,--niBi intell~ctU8 ipse." The intellectus
ipse, in the secondary state, stamps the old material with a
different pattern; but so it does for each of us every time that we
dream. Dreaming is an admitted, an important, an ill-understood
fact i-and in all these cases the analogy of dream should surely first
be worked out before we appeal to hypotheses so much more remote
and obscure.-F. W. H. M.]
Readers of the Journal will be interested to learn that letters were
received in the month of July by the President (I) from Baron Goeler
von Ravensburg, and MeBSrs. Hans Natge and Max Dessoir, writing in the
name of the Berlin Society for Experimental Psychology, and (2) from
Baron Schrenck Notzing on behalf of the Psychological Society of Munich,
expressing deep sympathy with the loss sustained by our Society through
Mr. Gumey's death. Both letters also contained a full and cordial recogni-
tion of the scientific value of Mr. Gurney's work, and of the services
rendered by him to the cause of Pdychical Research. The representatives of
the Berlin Society, in particular, add a warm expres8ion of gratitude for the
"kind encouragement " and "unselfish help" received by them from our
late Secretary. The letters were gratefully acknowledged by the Presi-
dent.-ED.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
COOPER (Robert) Spiritual Experiences, including Seven Months with
the Brothers JJavenport .......................................... London, 1867
POWELL (J. H.) Spiritualism; its Facts and Phases ...............LoJldon, 1864
ROTH (Dr. Mathias) The Physiological Effects of Artificial Sleep, with
some Notes on the Treatment by Suggestion..................London, 1887
BELFIORE (Dr. Giulio L'Ipnotismo e gli Stati affini. Prefazione del Prof.
Cesare Lombroso (2nd edition) ........................ ........•...Naples, 1888
tHISTOIRES PRODIGIEUSES. Extraictes de Plusieurs Auteurs Grecs et
Latins .........•.•............. ..........................................•.A7tVer8, 1595
t Presented by Prof. Chas. Richet.
The list of books present~d to the library by Mrs. Gurney will appear in
the next number of the Journal.
Digitized by Google
