{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v1_n8_dec_2004.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V1 N8 Dec 2004","mylang":"de"}
66
PSYPIONEER
An Electronic Newsletter from London
Volume 1 No 8 December 2004
( Please note- pagination differed in some Word and PDF editions of PP7- there may be no p.65!)
Highlights of this issue
New Light on Arthur Conan Doyle 66
Knowing Arthur Ford 68
Was Queen Victoria amused by the paranormal? 74
The first “ Two Worlds “ 74
The City Temple Pastorate 76
Bela Marsh, Slavery and Spiritualism 77
A lost leader 77
Australia’s most influential psychical researcher? 79
Manoah’s wife and the angel 80
NEW LIGHT ON ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE by Roger Straughan
Recent books about Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (ACD) have tended to regurgitate
familiar material, adding little to our understanding of this remarkable man who
surely deserves to be considered a ‘psychic pioneer’. It is refreshing, then, to come
across a newly published, well- researched study, using fresh sources and offering an
original and controversial perspective.
The book, “Out of the Shadows” is written by the widow of ACD’s nephew John,
Georgina Doyle, who has had the benefit of access to private family papers,
supplemented by direct recollections from family members. In brief, Mrs. Doyle’s
main aim is to bring ACD’s first wife and family ‘out of the shadows’, to which she
believes they have been consigned by earlier biographers who were encouraged by
ACD’s youngest son, Adrian, to portray the second wife and family in too idealised a
light.
This is fascinating stuff for Doylean scholars and raises deep questions about
biographical ‘truth’, but is there anything in this lengthy book to offer those
particularly interested in ACD’s Spiritualist activities? That aspect of his life receives
comparatively little attention, though Mrs. Doyle drops a number of intriguing hints
that she herself is not unacquainted with psychic matters. Two sections, however,
stand out as especially noteworthy in this respect.
The first concerns ACD’s second wife, Jean, who devotedly supported him
throughout his spiritualist campaigns and who claimed to have developed mediumistic
powers. Georgina Doyle is clearly no admirer of Jean and is sceptical of her psychic
abilities, particularly as displayed in the ‘messages’ received from her Chaldean
guide, Pheneas, at sittings within the family home circle. These were published in
67
Pheneas Speaks (1927), which Mrs.Doyle criticises as ‘a thoroughly unfortunate
publication that does nothing to further the cause of spiritualism’ (p.240). These are
deep waters (as Sherlock Holmes would have said!) which have no doubt been further
muddied by family tensions, but the issue does highlight the tricky question of what
criteria we should use in trying to assess the validity of this kind of non-evidential
communication.
The second area of Spiritualistic interest involves ACD’s daughter, Mary, (from his
first marriage), who has been virtually ignored by previous biographers. Mary is the
most prominent character in this book, and the extensive quotations from her letters
and other writings portray her as a most engaging and attractive personality with a
very lively mind. She helped to run ACD’s Psychic Bookshop in Victoria Street, and
her letters show her changing attitude towards spiritualism and her revealing
differences of opinion with her father on the subject. Mary seems to have placed
more importance upon religion and ‘faith’ (which her father mistrusted), finding
‘personal demonstrations of survival acutely embarrassing and painful’ (p.225), and
her father’s ‘insistence on constant propaganda very boring’ (p.227). Evidence from
Spiritualism she agreed was necessary to get people ‘over the bridge’ away from
materialism, but she asked, ‘What are we to do with them when they are over the
bridge?’ Her father replied, ‘They’ll find their way all right by that time. Our job is to
get the others over’ (p.227). Plenty of food for thought there!
This book, then, alerts us to some fundamental questions about the role and scope of
Spiritualism, and is well worth reading on that score alone. Indeed it is worth reading
just for ACD’s wonderful explanation to Mary of what a Yogi is: ‘A Yogi? It’s like
this: you bury an old man for six weeks, then dig him up, and unfortunately he’s still
alive … that’s a Yogi!’ (p.237)
(G. Doyle, Out of the Shadows: the untold story of Arthur Conan Doyle’s first family, Calabash Press,
Ashcroft, British Columbia, 2004, 428pp. £15 paperback, £25 hardback – obtainable from publisher,
www.ash-tree.bc.ca/calabash.html, address ashtree@ash-tree.bc.ca. )
Dr Roger Straughan is a philosopher with a long-standing interest in Conan Doyle and psychical
research.
……………………………………………………………………………………………………..
Birth Day of Rev. Arthur Ford
Despite his visits to London, British readers may not remember the leading public American medium
of the last century, Arthur Ford, who impressed Conan Doyle. There is uncertainty about his date of
birth. Canon Rauscher, who knew him well, prefers on balance 1897, with January 8 as the date. The
death certificate gives 1896, but those who completed it may not have been fully informed.
Ford was an ordained minister of the Disciples of Christ, a mainstream American denomination
(Lyndon Baines Johnson was also affiliated), and had been briefly and successfully in parish ministry,
before becoming a professional medium.
In 1930, Ford was injured in a road accident in which his sister died, and (it could be argued) never
fully recovered. The rest of his life should be understood compassionately in that context.
The biography “ The man who talked with the dead” (see below) is essential reading for all students of
mediumship. It should be supplemented by William V. Rauscher “ The Houdini Code Mystery- a Spirit
Secret Solved ” (Mike Cavaney’s Magic Words, Pasadena, CA, USA. 2000) which shows the
limitations of Houdini. L.P.
68
KNOWING ARTHUR FORD by W.V. Rauscher
The friend is the man who knows all about you, and still likes you.
Elbert Hubbard
The Notebook, 1972 edition
Arthur Ford’s strange enigmatic and controversial career existed long before and
beyond Spiritual Frontiers Fellowship. His prominence was noted early on and had
opened many doors for him all over the world. If anyone in S.F.F. had done extensive
private research on Ford prior to his involvement, I was not aware of it.
Ford’s travels, lectures, and “readings” had been going on for years. But not until
1958, when Ford was encouraged to write his autobiography, called Nothing So
Strange, in collaboration with Marguerette Harmon Bro, was the general public aware
of the full extent of his unusual life. Through that book people learned of Ford’s
involvement with scientists, churchmen, royalty, and ordinary people. Marguerette
was a most astute and academic woman who did her best to check her facts.
I met Ford in 1954 while I was in seminary and knew him until his death in 1971. I
always found him elusive, preoccupied, and a contrast in highs and lows. I felt I
perceived him well, but was never able to fully grasp the deeper aspects of his
troubled self. I always felt a bit uncomfortable with him but never revealed that to
anyone. With him, I was always on guard, fighting a feeling that his negative aspects
were very powerful when and if they emerged. So I was able to juggle my friendship
with Ford and observe him somewhat objectively without appearing distant.
My memories and observations extend beyond the facts contained in the Ford
biography entitled The Man Who Talked With the Dead (1973). I believe this book by
author Allen Spraggett (with me) stands as an important biography of a famous
medium. The various interpretations of Ford’s so-called “control” named Fletcher,
what it was or could have been, from an entity to conscious or unconscious fraud,
have been adequately covered in that book. But now, even after many years have
passed, I’d like to share other thoughts, insights, and experiences about this man with
the haunted mind.
If Arthur Ford was not the single founder of the Spiritual Frontiers Fellowship in
1956, he may be thought of as the single most powerful force in holding the group
together and providing the impetus for its future growth. During those years, he
reached thousands through his psychic work, but, at the very least, it is doubtful
whether anyone really understood him. So many who met him were awed and saw
what they wished to see. The qualities that made him inscrutable to those who knew
him in life continue to bewilder and surprise, for he was a man who lived by paradox.
He was in so many respects a mystery man.
I have always felt, and always will, that much of Arthur Ford’s story is a mystery
story. The mystery is Arthur Ford, and much of the mystery went, unsolved, to the
crematory with him. I once wrote that the riddle of his strange, charismatic,
contradictory personality would never be fully unravelled. I still believe that. He was
a remarkable man who could rise to the heights and sink to the depths. He was
difficult to dislike and in many ways, a futuristic person. I felt privileged to know
69
him and to this day often weigh many of the unusual events I witnessed, trying to
contrast them to his day-to-day personality. Indeed, he was a study in contrasts. He
was both convincing and confusing. Of all the psychics, mediums, seers, healers, and
sensitives I have known, he stands alone as a perplexing human example of an ancient
subject with so many alternative explanations, positive and negative attitudes, but
always interesting and debatable.
Memories of Arthur Ford often return to me. One must consider the psychic and also
the man. I especially remember a childlike quality about him. Once in a Chinese
restaurant, after finishing his meal, he looked at the waitress and said in a boyish,
almost abject, manner: “Aren’t you going to give me a fortune cookie?” At other
times, Arthur Ford, the man, and Arthur Ford, the psychic, maintained an uneasy,
even abrasive, relationship with one another. Once I telephoned him to ask how he
was going to get to a lecture date; he replied, self-derisively, that he would have no
difficulty since his new broom had just arrived. But just as often, depending on his
mood, he would defend his psychic self; he was fond of telling people that when he
died he would be a poltergeist for the first few years, so he could get even with those
who didn’t believe in psychic phenomena.
There were, inevitably, those people who did not agree with Ford, who accused him,
myself included, through the years of every sort of chicanery and charlatanism. The
fact that the history of psychics has been flawed by human weakness did not disturb
him in the least. During some forty years of psychic practice, Ford developed many
defences against an uncomprehending age: the gruffness by which he met and turned
away the world, the wild unpredictability by which he escaped its traps, the wry
humour by which he made it bearable, and underneath it all, the stoical resignation
which enabled him to accept it.
Many other insights into this complex man come to mind from past observation of his
library and his private notes. He had the habit of underlining what he read and making
annotations in the margin. Any book Arthur Ford ever borrowed from my library
always came back “marked up,” even new ones. I always thought that he read these
books with some idea of himself in the story. I remember he once loaned me
a copy of The Shoes of the Fisherman by Morris L. West. On thumbing through the
pages of the West story, I noticed several places that Ford had made notes. One
underlined sentence on page 177 particularly struck me, summing up, as much as it
does, Ford’s own attitude: “I have seen the worst that can happen to me, and I am
still here. The rest, whatever it is, I can endure.” I am sure Ford saw himself in those
words. On another page (144) he underlined: The act of faith is an act of acceptance -
not an explanation.” Toward the end of the book (page 195) he marked up a
paragraph which I heard him say in different words from the speaker’s platform:
“I do not ask you to agree with me. I do not put any of my present conclusions beyond
reconsideration or new development, but of this I am totally convinced: the first
creative act of God was directed toward fulfillment, and not destruction. If the
universe is not centered on man, if man as the center of the universe is not centered
on the Creator, then the cosmos is a meaningless blasphemy. The day is not far
distant when men will understand that even in biological terms they have only one
choice: Suicide or an act of worship.”
70
Arthur Ford’s friends had different opinions about him. He was so complex that his
associates settled for agreeing to disagree about him, or as one book put it, accepting
him as the “enigma of our generation.” He was an almost incredible mixture of
heaven and earth, a man who lived in two worlds but was at home in neither.
He was an important person who left an incredible impression. He was in many
respects a “psychic philosopher” who believed that there is a real life after death just
so far as we bring our life into harmony with the eternal verities of the universe.
Ford said that science, once so materialistic and eager to clip the wings of faith, is
through the work of some of its foremost exponents now willing to explore supra-
sensible realms. However, it was obvious to Ford that the trend was not toward belief.
For most, belief means merely the intellectual acceptance of a certain statement or
definition of truth. He knew that it is only when truth is perceived as the reality of our
own minds, does it become belief. As we were walking down the street one day, I
remember him saying, “It is one thing to believe in God; it is quite a different
thing to realise God as the self of ourselves, the soul of our souls, the life of our
lives.”
Ford was a very good storyteller. He liked to say that he was the life of the party but
went home alone. Actually this was true. There was a certain hesitance in those who
knew him. They were comfortable with him in a group, but not necessarily at ease in a
one-on-one situation. Arthur was a man who felt sorry for himself and exhibited a
mood of loneliness.
He had many friends and would send them cards with religious humour themes such
as: “A perfect saint is what you ain’t, but that’s okay by me -cause mister just the way
you are, you suit me to a T” Or with post cards he would choose, “I’ve never felt I
was the greatest person in the world - but then, what’s my opinion against millions.”
On serious occasions he would send serious cards many times when people never
expected to hear from him.
Ford liked casual dress and was conservative in appearance when giving a lecture. He
always wore jacket and tie and used two or three pair of glasses - close-up, distance,
and sunglasses. There was always the problem of putting on the wrong pair and
fumbling for another. He was beset by health problems and never quite felt up to any
project. When Marguerite Harmon Bro wrote Nothing So Strange, she told me she
went crazy pinning him down to events, dates and sources. She was a stickler for
detail, and in the end, the book was a landmark in its field.
Ford was a man who was raring to go one day and worn out the next. He had a
tendency, not unusual, to over-accept commitments. He had zeal, but moods or the
use of alcohol often prevented a task undertaken.
Someone once said that he looked like the local grocer. He had a spry walk and would
often forget to look when he crossed the street. If you walked with him you had to be
prepared to say, “Arthur, Look out!” One thing he liked was to receive mail, but then
he complained about it. He never wanted many material things. He frequently gave
away personal household items with the phrase, “I’ve got to cut down on things -I
don’t need much, just a few items, enough to be comfortable - my books and a few
71
chairs. What the hell do I need all this stuff for?” One chair he kept was his pushback
in which he did his “trance” sessions. Once he handed me a heavy lead icon of St.
Nicholas. It was given to him by a relative of Henry Clay of Kentucky as a gift for a
sitting. “Here - take this, I don’t want it.” On another occasion he said, “This hand-
painted glass belonged to my mother. Take it with you.”
Arthur Ford was a brooding man but one who could also laugh at himself. When it
came to organising, he had great ideas but could not put the plan into effect. He was
many times stern and unbending but then would soften easily. Like many well-known
people he liked meeting others but disliked being fawned upon. He had the talent to
imitate incidents and was a likeable storyteller. Ford did not want to be alone, but he
also needed to be.
It was always evident that he had a conflict of need. On the surface he exuded a public
contentment, but in private he was a driven, anxious and troubled man. He would
receive phone calls all hours of the night from all over America –yet when asked if he
ever turned off the bell he would reply, “Why? I can’t sleep anyway.”
How he actually made a living doing “sittings” was another mystery. People gave him
money, and there was always a quiet response as if there was a bit of guilt about
taking it. He used to say that he really did not care about receiving anything for his
sittings, but would then complain that all he received from people was “deep
gratitude.”
Driving or riding in a car with Arthur Ford was a frightening experience. One might
find oneself riding down the white line on a main highway as other cars blew horns
and Ford went on talking about some experience. You might try to interrupt him by
say, “Arthur, watch it! Watch that man on the right, Arthur.” He would reply by
saying, “What?” or a slight indistinguishable response. I was once in a car with Ford
when another driver yelled as he passed, “Where the hell did you get your license!”
Ford, with cigar in mouth, merely said of those in the car, “That guy better keep his
mind on his driving. What did he yell?”
Arthur liked magic. In his youth when he lectured for Chautauqua assemblies, there
was also a magician on the program. His name was S. S. Henry. Ford especially liked
the illusion of the “Spirit Paintings” where faces appeared on a blank canvas.
Did he have a temper? Yes. When he was mad it was a raging madness and a
telephone encounter with an angry Ford required all of one’s reserve. He could also
be calm, coldly calculating while taking his opponent down piece by piece. Although
he travelled widely he never liked to fly. Travel became a necessary effort. He said,
“Bill, if you were going to California, I bet you would be all excited, but when you
have done it many times it really doesn’t matter.”
He liked to go to fancy restaurants, but was just as content in any average place. He
once said, “Really great people should never mind eating in the kitchen. “ In many
ways he was a conservative, not only with money but also in any social life or
personal living. The last meal I had with him was in a Papa John’s Pancake House.
He once wrote me, “I can deal with the public ...but lonely hotel rooms ... dull and
uncomprehending persons who have no interest except what they can get out of one
72
...that is the deadly problem.” Ford told me that hotel rooms were places where
negative “influences” were the strongest because so many unseemly things have
happened in them by SO many people. He never felt ultimately comfortable in a
“psychic” way in hotels or motels.
Arthur had love/hate relationships with clergy and the church. He thought that all the
clergy should be actively interested in both the spiritual and psychic nature of man. If
they weren’t informed on these matters he considered them openly stupid. He was
fond of saying that the church members sometimes knew more than the clergy.
Zany antics of clergy provoked disgust in Ford for the church, but in another instant
he would speak of a great new horizon for the church. He needed the church at a
distance, and was interested only in how effective it was in teaching the principles of
an invisible world at work shaping lives and directing the affairs of those who had a
responsibility to lead. The actual organisation bored him, and he had little business
sense for the material side of church management.
His use of the Silk from London under the label of “Liberty” to tie about his head
covering his eyes was an unspoken need. Once he said with a smile, “I can’t give a
sitting anymore unless I use a Liberty Silk.” It was a kind of silent trademark. If he
had visitors for a sitting he would be frustrated afterward because they stayed too long
or talked too much. He did not want to talk all the time but liked to listen. He might
sit with his eyes closed and hands interlaced, which was a characteristic position. He
might tell a guest to just sit and read and later tell the guest that they were antisocial.
Ford liked the idea of eating high protein cereal. If you did not know him you might
believe he was a health expert, but he really wasn’t because nothing with Arthur Ford
was consistent. In front of you he might take fifteen assorted vitamin pills at a meal
with one gulp of water. The guests looked in disbelief but said nothing until Ford said,
“My doctor prescribes these, and I have never felt better.” He really had no fixed
favourite foods. He ate what was available. During brief periods he shied away from
meats, but was not a vegetarian and greatly enjoyed rice. He might compulsively eat,
while deep in thought, a whole pound box of candy or a box of cookies.
Arthur liked movies, but to draw him to one required something different or highly
humorous. He hated musicals. ”One minute you are deep in the plot, and then
someone starts bellowing!” Newspapers were important to him. He was an avid
reader of three or four papers a day. He clipped articles, and as eventually discovered,
he also clipped obituaries! Whether he used them for every sitting, or only sometimes,
we will never know. The amount of material, cross-references to names and places
while in his trances, plus spiritual insights or philosophy is still part of the mystery of
this intriguing man. One thing is certain: he was sensitive to people’s problems and
did exhibit compassion, especially when he did those private readings –readings that
afterward he never asked about nor referred to again.
Having dealt with the alcohol problem for so many years, he knew that the only
answer was A.A. If he saw a derelict along the street it touched his emotions. “The
line between that man and you, Bill, is very thin,” he would say. “ Did you ever think
that he was a boy once, had parents ...remember him, Bill.”
73
If a person annoyed him he would give them an odd answer to a question which they
would then accept but later puzzle over. A woman seriously told me once that “part of
the brilliance of Arthur Ford was in the fact that he spent hours on the john reading.”
She said, “Arthur told me that himself.”
We have come along way since the “Psychic Revolution” and the “New Age
Movement,” and whatever else awaits us. Sometimes there were hints of these things
in the “sittings” I observed. In my files there is one for December 6, 1961. “Fletcher,”
the “spirit personality,” the alleged control of Ford, who can be studied and
interpreted in the analysis of consciousness on so many levels, made this vague but
interesting statement:
“ Another two or three months and the Piscean influence is completely gone and
many of the prophecies of the old prophets, many of the prophecies about the end of
the world, which means the end of the age, the end of a kind of world, not the end
of the physical world, they will be fulfilled and February will be a month of
excitement ...!”
He went on with further material which was subtle but impressive. In the light of all
that has happened since that day in world advance, revolution, and the speeded-up
changes in society, he may have been prophetic in a mystical way.
Arthur Ford was one of a kind, a great original, and we shall not see the like again.
Canon W. V. Rauscher is a former president of Spiritual Frontiers Fellowship (
SFF) which began as an American equivalent of CFPS.
………………………………………………….
Notes by the Way: APPROACHING INFANCY
As this Newsletter develops, a group of colleagues is also taking shape. Tony Hern
scans material. Paul Gaunt and Garth Willey check each issue before publication;
Andreas Sommer in Germany makes the PDF for those who receive it in that format,
and Peter Hui of Woodlands Sanctuary in Australia loads it on the web. Beginning
with this issue, Paul Gaunt will take over distribution to direct subscribers, a few of
whom incidentally prefer Word format. However, we may no longer be the
Spiritualist newspaper with the world’s smallest circulation, having been undertaken
by the brave and thought-provoking “ Psychic Times.” which sent a free copy to
every National Spiritualist church in the country, and was underwhelmed by the
response. It is feared that no further issues of PT will appear.
Psypioneer content is also changing as new authors come on stream. Many thanks to
everyone involved, including the psychic institutions at home and abroad who back
this educational project.
Sometimes the factual building blocks we assemble are small, but it is by such means
that an authentic picture of the pioneers is developed. Even the leading names are now
forgotten by all but a few. But without an awareness of history, how can we avoid
repeating it, claiming novelty for approaches already familiar a century ago, or myth
making ? L.P.
74
WAS QUEEN VICTORIA AMUSED BY THE PARANORMAL?
Queen Victoria ( 1837-1901 ) lived through the golden age of Modern Spiritualism,
and there were frequent attempts to show she supported it. Some of these were
misguided.
The College of Psychic Studies once possessed a watch supposedly given by Queen
Victoria to Georgiana Eagle for meritorious clairvoyance in 1846. The Roman
Catholic historian, Elizabeth Longford, reviewing the evidence for Victoria’s psychic
involvement ( in “ Victoria R.I” 1964) “doubted Georgiana’s existence.
Until recently, no trace of her had been found among the names of early mediums.
But BBC journalist Stephen Butt solved the mystery by looking in a different
direction- among the stage magicians and conjurors who travelled the country giving
demonstrations of stage magic. Here he found not just Georgiana but also her father
George Bernard Eagle ( “ The Wizard of the South, Artist and Professor of
Clairvoyance.” ). Georgiana would have been about 11 when she first appeared on
stage with her father. Actually both father and daughter professed by their skills to
destroy claims of paranormal power, as stage magicians often did.
Butt published his findings in NewsStead, a journal of history of literature “ edited by
Grace Eckley in their Spring 2003 issue, entitled “ The Identity of Miss Georgiana
Eagle and Stead’s presentation of a royal plaque” ( p.9-17). For Stead, see also the
web site www.newsstead.itgo.com. W.T. Stead certainly had family connection to the
Eagle case. ( It is sad to report that NewsStead was discontinued in 2004.)
Butt also presented his findings at the International Conference on Theosophical
History in London in July 2003. It is one of the most remarkable historical discoveries
in the history of the pioneers. But far from showing the Queen witnessed
mediumship, it shows her patronising an anti-psychic mentalist.
Another claim is that the services of the medium R. J. Lees were used by Queen
Victoria. We turn further to the researches of Stephen Butt, whose paper “ A
Madman and a Fool” The Dedicated Life of Robert James Lees “ appeared in
NewsStead Spring 2002. Again, Longford was sceptical of this story, and when the
details of the versions are scrutinised, they are difficult to substantiate. Eva Lees,
daughter of the medium, was definitely wrong in some claims about royal favour. (
See now the web site for some Lees documentation www.rjlees.co.uk.).
…………………………………………………………………………………………
The first Two Worlds by James Gregory
‘...a new era in British journalism, where the reader, instead of being presented with a
broadsheet of horrible murders, shocking accidents, and trifling occurrences, is
referred to the shining gate that leads to the hope of the philosopher and the goal of
the patient investigator.’
‘Humble Reader’, Two Worlds, 11 November 1858
Before there was Two Worlds (established 1887), there was William Horsell’s Two Worlds, a
family newspaper devoted to ‘the free ventilation of all matters relating to the well-being of
75
man’. With its masthead featuring an angel hovering over the globe trumpeting ‘Excelsior’, it
lasted for twenty seven numbers between 1 October 1858 and 28 May 1859.
William Horsell (1807-1863) intended the paper to discuss the ‘Physical, Scientific,
Mental, Moral and Religious questions of the age, irrespective of creeds’. Articles and
reviews were to be published on the range of ‘unorthodox’ medical practices, such as
hydropathy, homoeopathy, medical botany and mesmerism. Horsell was a teetotaller and the
first secretary of the Vegetarian Society (which had been founded at his Ramsgate
hydropathic establishment in 1847) and wanted to use the newspaper to promote these causes
too.
Although Horsell believed the ‘Health reform is the most radical of all social
movements and improvements’, he declared: ‘We would be failing in our mission to enquire
into everything relating to human life if we did not, in addition to mesmerism and
clairvoyance, ventilate the question of Spiritualism, which will naturally find a place in the
Two Worlds’. (Two Worlds, no.1, p.1)
It naturally found a place in the paper because Horsell saw spiritualism as an aid to
religious faith:
We are one of those who believe,- and the arguments of our secularist friends
have never yet been able to shake the belief,- that man cannot be happy, no matter
what improvement he may be able to make in his circumstances, until he
recognises his divine origin and the inner purpose of his creation. (Two Worlds,
no.1, p.1.)
Horsell was already publishing spiritualist literature. He was the London publisher of
several early spiritualist works, such as William Carpenter’s Communion with Ministering
Spirits. Discourse delivered April 25, 1858, John Ashburner’s A Series of Essays. On the
Connection between mesmerism and spiritualism, with considerations on their relations to
natural and revealed religion and the welfare of mankind (1859) and Thomas Shorter’s
Confessions of a Truth Seeker (1859). He co-published Carpenter’s Spiritual Messenger,
which was advertised in the paper, along with another spiritualist journal, the second volume
of Benjamin Morrell’s Spiritual Telegraph. Horsell was also publishing Kenneth R. H.
Mackenzie’s Biological Review.
He welcomed debate, and Two Worlds was to be open to sensible, ‘gentlemanly’
criticisms from opponents. There were ongoing letters on vegetarianism and other subjects,
but the ‘letter box’ received more letters about the question ‘what is spiritualism?’ Articles
and paragraphs published included a note on ‘the Black Art in Somerset’ (7 October 1858), an
account of a seance (at the home of H. Whitaker, of 31, Newman Street), with Mrs Marshall
and her niece (14 October 1858), Jacob Dixon on clairvoyant perception (14 October 1858),
William Carpenter on mesmeric experiences (14 October 1858) and spiritualism (22 January
1859), a ghost story and note on the Hoxton Spiritualist Society (29 Jan 1859).
The paper also carried notes on the week’s news, a serialised novel and notes on a
tour of Normandy, letters and replies to correspondents, serialisation of Horsell’s popular
Hydropathy for the People and Jacob Dixon’s papers on homoeopathy. Unfortunately, like
several of Horsell’s journals, Two Worlds proved too progressive or too unorthodox for mass
appeal, never rising to a circulation of a thousand. After reducing its size, and then a short
existence as a monthly paper, it ceased.
Two Worlds, published by William Horsell at 13 Paternoster Row, printed by John Evans of 16
Yardly Street, Exmouth Street, Clerkenwell. 1s. Complete run at the British Library Newspaper
Library, Colindale. Reprinted from former www.psypioneer.com. James Gregory is now a
research fellow at the University of Southampton, England.
………………………………………………………………………………….
76
(In 2003 was celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the Churches’ Fellowship for Psychical and
Spiritual Studies (originally the Churches’ Fellowship for Psychical Study). Previous attempts to form
such bodies floundered, and it is an important historical question why the others failed, and this one
succeeded. To help answer it, we are presenting a regular series of reports on the prehistory of the
Fellowship.) This month we feature an influential non-Anglican. This editorial appeared in LIGHT
July 9 1936, under the editorship of George H. Lethem, and the heading “As We See It”
THE CITY TEMPLE PASTORATE
AN announcement of considerable interest to Spiritualists, and to all concerned with
psychic study in its widest aspects, is that the Rev. Leslie Weatherhead, of Leeds, has
been invited to succeed the Rev. Dr. F. W. Norwood in the pastorate of the City
Temple, London - a famous Congregationalist Church which Mr. Weatherhead
himself has described as containing “ the most important Free Church pulpit in the
world “ and which has often been termed the Cathedral of English Nonconformity.
Mr. Weatherhead is a Methodist minister who went through the war as a combatant
officer. He has for some ten years been stationed at the principal Methodist Church in
Leeds, where he is so popular as a preacher --and especially with young people-- that
there is always difficulty in accommodating the crowds who flock to hear him. He has
already preached occasionally in the City Temple, and quite recently he had the
unusual distinction -for a Nonconformist- of delivering a broadcast address from the
pulpit of St. Martin-in-the-Fields. Should he accept the City Temple pastorate - as
seems likely- his acceptance would involve his severance from the ministry of the
Methodist Church, but there are precedents for a Methodist preacher becoming a
Congregationalist.
The point of special interest to Spiritualists is that Mr. Weatherhead is himself a “
healer“ who understands and uses the powers of suggestion; also that he is well-
informed regarding many aspects of psychic phenomena and ready to admit that they
have a clear and important bearing on the problems of human Survival. He would not,
we imagine, care to be described as a Spiritualist; but his published books contain
descriptions of psychic incidents and experiences similar in kind and detail to those
generally regarded as Spiritualistic; and he has, on more than one occasion, advised
his fellow-Methodists to try to understand Spiritualism rather than to condemn it.
It will, of course, be nothing new for a pastor of the City Temple to have a good
understanding of the nature and value of psychic evidence. Most of the distinguished
men who have held that position have had some knowledge of the subject; and Dr. R.
J. Campbell (now a Canon of the Anglican Church) , who preceded Dr. Norwood, has
made it clear in his writings --and particularly in his autobiography-- that he regards
many of the New Testament incidents, including the story of the Resurrection, as
records which can only be properly understood if interpreted in the light of modern
psychic knowledge.
Leslie Weatherhead did go to City Temple, where he remained until retirement in
1960. He became a patron of CFPSS, and among his many later publications was his
magnum opus “ Psychology, Religion and Healing.” He was president of the
Methodist Conference in 1955-6.
77
Bela Marsh, Slavery and Spiritualism
The fight against slavery in the United States was a noble struggle, in which
publishers and distributors played a vital part. Today some college students read “
Narrative of Henry Watson, a fugitive slave” (Boston, published by Bela Marsh,
1848) or “Narrative of Henry Box Brown, who escaped from Slavery enclosed in a
box” (published by Brown & Stearns, for sale by Bela Marsh, 25 Cornhill, Boston,
1849). However, Marsh typifies the link between Abolitionism and Spiritualism. For
we read on the back of an 1853 booklet ( in the library of Paul Gaunt ) that Marsh…
“ Has for sale a complete assortment of Books and Periodicals devoted to the facts,
philosophy and advocacy of SPIRITUALISM , which he will supply in any quantity,
on the most favourable terms: a part of which are included in the following list, with
the price annexed, together with the rates of postage.”
Over thirty titles follow, including authors such as Davis, Reichenbach and Spear.
Marsh was also an agent for “The Shekinah”, “The Spiritual Telegraph” and “The
New Era.”. Since Spiritualism was widely thought to be of the devil, does this mean
that Abolitionism was too?
…………………………………………………………………………………….
A LOST LEADER
Students of Emma Hardinge Britten will recall her opposition to “Free Love", an
expression whose association with American Spiritualism did it much harm.
Behind the term were links, from even before Hydesville, between those who
practised spirit communion, and those who were conscious of the many injustices
in such matters as the rights of women and of black slaves. They often
campaigned for emancipation, divorce law reform and the vote for all citizens.
Some went further and attempted to create new lifestyles or communities. Andrew
Jackson Davis was a typical example - though the reader who ends " The Magic
Staff" confident of his rectitude may be surprised to learn that he subsequently
abandoned his second wife in her final years, claimed their marriage had never
been legally valid, and acquired a third.
Ann Braude’s book "Radical Spirits" ( Beacon Press, 1989) told the story of the
feminist power of early Spiritualism . There was however one woman medium who in
her own person proclaimed and lived out free love, who was a candidate for the
American presidency in 1872, who had her own newspaper - and whose name could
not later be mentioned in polite society - Victoria Woodhull. Her story was told with
unprecedented candour in Barbara Goldsmith’s biography " Other Powers" ( London,
Granta, 1998 ). The book paints an appalling picture of the corruption of American
church, state and society in the Civil War era.
Victoria was born into a depraved family background in Ohio in 1838 and her
sister Tennessee in 1846. They inherited psychic gifts through their mother.Their
violent father used them as child mediums to make money. While Tennessee
was more of a fortune teller, Vickie experienced deep trances. She escaped
through marriage in 1853 to a drunkard, and became an actress to further escape
78
poverty. ( At that era the stage was closely linked with vice.) Tennessee
meanwhile was still exploited by their father through bogus medicines and
messages. Victoria developed real healing abilities, and after some time with
her father (who was running a lethal fake cancer cure racket) she briefly
established her own healing centre in Chicago, and later St Louis where she
formed a relationship with a Col. Blood, who left his wife and children for her.
She became a travelling healer and medium, with Blood as manager.
In 1868 they came to New York. Here the sisters acquired as a client Commodore
Vanderbilt, the financier, and they received a share of the profits from their advice to
him. They became very wealthy through the collapse of the gold market in 1869, and
even started their own stockbrokerage. In 1870 they moved to near Fifth Avenue, with
other family members. Victoria was encouraged to announce herself as a presidential
candidate. The sisters launched their own newspaper, and Victoria wrote political
articles for it in trance. She took the fight for the vote to Washington.
In 1871 however everything began to fall apart in family feuds. Her mother made
a foolish attempt to extort money from the Commodore, and he dropped them. Her
mother further accused Blood in court of corrupting her daughters. This led the press
to enquire into the history of the family. Victoria hit back through her own newspaper.
Numerous scandals touching on the women’s movement were ventilated, splitting it
with great bitterness.
In 1872, the family lost their town house, and soon after the paper had to be
suspended. At the convention of the National Association of Spiritualists,
Victoria became entranced and gave a graphic account of misconduct in high
places, naming names. Finally she raised enough money to bring out a special
issue of her paper which described how Henry Beecher, the leading preacher and
author of "The Life of Jesus the Christ" had become involved with a
parishioner.
Another article, describing a French Ball in New York , used a biblical term and
was to lead to an obscenity prosecution, this being a pretext to silence her.
The sisters spent some time in prison, before the case was dismissed. In 1873 Victoria
continued her lectures, but by 1876 she had abandoned her support for free love.
Beecher also continued his ministry after his church exonerated him. While a dispute
about the Vanderbilt Will was in the American court in 1877, the sisters removed to
London, from where they did not need to give evidence. In 1883, Victoria married
John Biddulph Martin a London banker. Her sister married too and became Lady
Cook. Martin died in 1897, leaving Victoria a millionaire. She retired to the English
country and became a benevolent lady of the manor until her death in 1927.
Victoria Woodhull was a trance medium of great power, and was called the Joan of
Arc of the Women’s Movement. Just what guides like Demosthenes, Bonaparte and
Josephine thought of the various rackets of the family may indeed be wondered.
She never fully escaped from her corrupt family and the positive causes she supported
became fatally entwined with serious crime including manslaughter and blackmail.
But it is not possible to write a truthful history of Spiritualism without
reference to her, For months if not years, she was the Spiritualist most in the
79
American public eye. Other pioneers like Hudson Tuttle and Mrs Britten had to cope
with the complications she brought. As Ann Braude observed, using a slightly
different name for the Association.
" Victoria Woodhull’s election marked the demise of the American Association of
Spiritualists. By the time she resigned the presidency in 1875, no one thought
of trying to keep the association alive. State and local organizations
persisted, but as a nationwide movement Spiritualism reverted to the loose
networks more consistent with its religious beliefs." ( p.173)
It was in this situation that the Theosophical Society was created in New York
in 1875 which eventually became a world wide body. It is possible that Col.Olcott
its first president knew Victoria. He may even have been present at the French
Ball. He was by his own later admission a man of mistresses. His 1874 divorce
papers obtained by Jean Overton Fuller for her biography " Blavatsky and her
Teachers" ( 1988) placed him in a house of ill fame, though that may have been a
legal device to facilitate the divorce. However Blavatsky and Olcott from the time
their association began provided a non-sexual non-financial nucleus to the T.S. which
could not help contrast with the Woodhull - Blood partnership, and which will have
helped in the world wide growth of the Society in the 1880s.
………………………………………………………………………………………….
AUSTRALIA’S MOST INFLUENTIAL PSYCHICAL RESEARCHER?
Yorkshire-born physicist Raynor Carey Johnson ( 1901-1987) exercised a pre-
eminent distant influence over British psychic studies a generation ago. Johnson
emigrated to Australia in 1934 to become Master’s of Queen’s College, Melbourne, a
Methodist foundation. In 1953, his classic survey of psychical research in a wider
perspective “ The Imprisoned Splendour” established his reputation, and he was a
natural choice to write the brief “ Teach Yourself” volume on the subject.
His attention was then directed to Imaginism, a presentation of the ancient wisdom
expounded by Douglas Fawcett ( once a researcher for H.P. Blavatsky). Johnson
assessed this philosophy in “ Nurslings of Immortality” (1957) and used it to interpret
mysticism in “ Watcher on the Hills.” (1959). He summarised his beliefs in “ A
Religious Outlook for Modern Man” (1963) and published the inside story of his
scripts from the medium Geraldine Cummins in “ The Light and the Gate”(1964). By
this time he was the favourite reading of CFPS, and in 1967 was the subject of a
teach-in at CPS. Paul Beard, CPS president, through the Pelegrin Trust later made
possible the reprint of his older books,
However in 1962, Johnson, made vulnerable by his search for a spiritual teacher, was
targeted by an Australian –based cult, The Family. Other books followed, but his
influence began to slowly decline. It seems unlikely he knew what was being done to
the children, although he was used to recruit for and defend the cult.
While he lectured in Britain and the USA on spiritual subjects, terrible events were
unfolding in Australia, as described in “ Unseen, unheard, unknown “ (Penguin
Australia, 1995) by Sarah Hamilton- Byrne.
80
Manoah’s wife and the angel.
Everyone has heard of the ancient Israelite strong man Samson, who fought the
Philistines, succumbed to Delilah, and eventually, though blinded, pulled down their
temple in Gaza. Samson is one of the select group of men whose conception was
foretold by an angel. In the biblical book of Judges, chapter 13, the angel brought this
news to the childless wife of Manoah and later returned to her, so that she could call
her husband to confirm the message. Manoah then carried out a sacrifice, and the
angel disappeared in the flame.
In her treatise “ Ancient Lights, the Bible, the Church and Psychic Science” (1923)
Mrs St Clair Stobart explained that “ in psychic language, the spirit dematerialized
behind the screen of smoke.” ( p136.). Her friend Maurice Elliott in his collected
articles “ Spiritualism in the Old Testament” ( 1938) calls this “ an account of a
remarkable materialization” The angel was “a spirit guide.”
The story of the angel, which is worth rereading in the 16ll “King James” translation,
has actually triggered much dispute among Christians, almost all of it disregarding
any psychic dimension. The Christian debate is part of the wider issue- who is meant
in the Bible by the “Angel of the Lord”? Is it always Gabriel , who later came to
Mary, mother of Jesus . Is it Jehovah ? (or Yahweh as modern scholars call Him) Is it
Jesus, or at least the second person of the Christian Trinity who was to be made flesh
later. Methodist founder John Wesley, for example, answered “ The Son of God, yet
distinguished from the Lord, because he appeared here in the form of a servant, as a
messenger sent from God.”
The wife of Manoah said first “ A man of Elohim came unto me and his countenance
was like the countenance of an angel of Elohim., very terrible: but I asked him not
whence he was, neither told me his name.” In praying to Yahweh for a second visit ,
Manoah called him “ the man of Elohim which thou didst send “. and when he comes
again, his wife says of him once more “ Behold the man hath appeared” . Manoah
enquires “ Art thou the man..?” The man declines food, and urges sacrifice only to
God. He won’t reveal his name which is secret. It was after the angel had ascended in
the flame of the altar that Manoah concluded “ We shall surely die , because we have
seen Elohim.”
Though plural in form, Elohim is usually translated “ God”, but sometimes “a god “
“gods” or” a spirit”. Philip Johnston, in his recent compendium “ Shades of Sheol;
death and the afterlife in the Old Testament” (Apollos 2002) notes ( p.144.)
“ Given this widespread use of terms for ‘god’ to cover the dead and other supernatural beings, it
would be more helpful to translate the Hebrew word elohim with the equally flexible English word
‘spirit’. However , since the translation ‘god’ is so well known, it is better to redefine ‘god’ to include
other super-human beings. In the Old Testament there are three clear instances and several suggested
texts where elohim means ‘spirits of the dead.’.”
But in calling the angel a materialization, we are a long way from the typical séance
situation - darkness or at least subdued light, a group of sitters and a recognised
medium. That is not to rule out the possibility that Manoah’s wife, a woman of
spiritual insight once praised in a sermon by Spurgeon, and the main focus of the
angel’s message, may have possessed some psychic faculty, perhaps later inherited by
81
Samson. This is one of those biblical angelic appearances where we are not given a
clear picture of how the phenomena happened. Indeed the first appearance- to the wife
at an unspecified place - may have been an apparition.
According to the contemporary cult founded by Claude Vorilhon ( Rael), Yahweh
was a actually an alien, and the Elohim were beings from the sky with a planet of
their own who created man by genetic engineering. Some ufologists had of course
been suggesting similar explanations already. In this story however, there is no sign of
any space ship, and the angel’s instruction to the woman- that she should during
pregnancy follow the code of the Nazarites and avoid unclean food and wine etc- is
entirely understandable within Israelite religion, where male and female Nazarites had
a recognised place.
In the 1611 King James translation, the names of God, such as “ Lord” are generally
translated according to definite rules. But in order to respond adequately to groups
like the Raelites, translators must now go into more detail on how the terms
developed. The newer “alien” interpretation of these messengers is also a challenge
to those who quickly reduce biblical incidents to the paranormal. More detailed
examination is needed if we are not to be arbitrary according to our prejudices.
Despite keeping Nazarite requirements like no hair cutting, Samson in adult life at
times led a wild life, and may have been a disappointment to his mother, and indeed
to Yahweh. His name could derive from “ sun god” and there has been speculation
that he was really a solar myth, his hair representing sun beams, who waged war
against the powers of darkness and lost his strength in winter! However his story does
form a unity, and may even have been written close to the events.. To some Christians
he has been seen as a type of Christ, defeating his enemies through death.
Dr Michael Perry, editor of “The Christian Parapsychologist” and a board member of
the Academy of Religion and Psychical Research” reviews this and other angelic
phenomena of the Jewish Bible in his new book “ Psychical and Spiritual” (CFPSS,
2003).
“ Gradually as the immensity of God dawned on the people of Israel, they began to think that it could
not possibly have been God himself whom they saw: no human could see him and live. It must have
been some supernatural being whose nature lay between divinity and humanity – an angel. But the
traces of the older belief were never entirely expunged from the stories as they were told and re-told
and eventually committed to writing.” ( p.82).
One of the issues was whether the entities ate food. It came to be felt that angels
would not. “ That is why” adds Dr Perry “ St Luke is adamant to point out that the
risen Jesus ate and drank with his followers, to prove that he is no ghost or spirit.” (
Luke 24.36-43.) But this brings us to the unpalatable question of materialised entities
ingesting food. LP.
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available on the web site www.woodlandway.org and we are
greatly indebted to our Australian friends. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e mail
entitled “ Subscribe” to leslie.price@blueyonder.co.uk or “ Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
