{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v1_n15-16_jul-aug_2005.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V1 N15-16 Jul-Aug 2005","mylang":"de"}
173
PSYPIONEER Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by Paul Gaunt
An Electronic Newsletter
Volume 1, No 15 – 16 (Double issue) July / August 2005.
Highlights of this issue
Editorial changes. 173
Georgina Eagle. 174
Georgiana Eagle – Queen Victoria’s Clairvoyant Revealed.
By Stephen Butt. 175
How to obtain previous issues of Psypioneer and to subscribe free. 196
………………………………………………………………………………….
EDITORIAL CHANGES
Due to circumstances involving his work, Leslie Price is at present unable to continue to
act as editor of Psypioneer. It is unclear at this time if this is to be a permanent or
temporary change.
Leslie has appointed me to continue as editor. However, due also to my own work
commitments, I will be unable to give Psypioneer my full attention until the latter part of
September.
It will be my intention to continue Psypioneer to the standard that its readers have been
accustomed to under Leslie’s editorship. Incidentally, Leslie will still continue to
contribute to Psypioneer.
I myself have previously worked on Psypioneer as assistant editor, and administration
administrator. Contributing support to editorial material and the various articles as part of
its continuing success with its growing independence and increasing number of
subscribers.
Psypioneer has not been a success for its editorial material alone. It has been supported
with the ever important input from its subscribers with their valuable articles and
constructive feedback. I will be looking for this continued input from such avenues,
which have and will be crucial to Psypioneer’s continuing success. So please send your
contributions to me at Psypioneer@aol.com
I had initiated the idea of re-printing rare material in the newsletter, the first being
presented in PP 12 April 2005. ‘A Report of the Mysterious Noises’ by E.E. Lewis1848.
174
Leslie has been arranging to continue this by re-printing Lectures on Clairmativeness: or,
Human Magnetism by Rev. Gibson Smith. Explained by the celebrated Jackson Davis of
Poughkeepsie. Printed in 1845.
I am presently working on this for the next edition; this will be followed by other rare out
of print historical material.
I look forward to your continued support and contribution to enable the continuing
progressive success of Psypioneer.
Paul J Gaunt, Editor.
GEORGIANA EAGLE
Factual precedence is an important aspect in Psypioneer’s electronic newsletter; bringing
spiritualistic histories backed by referenced information. In PP 9., we saw the old well
told stories of Hydesville, Katie and Margaret Fox and the mysterious communicating
peddler were misrepresented and not in line with the original reports of the time.
Another well told story in spiritualist literature is that of Georgiana Eagle. Her
relationship with Queen Victoria as a medium resulting in Georgiana being presented an
inscribed watch in 1846.
In When Dead Kings Speak by Tony Ortzen 1985 published by Regency Press, on page
24 while remarking on Queen Victoria’s psychic life he states: it is certain that soon after
she became sovereign, Victoria presented a gold watch to the medium. The engraved
inscription read, ‘Presented by her majesty to Miss Georgiana Eagle for her meritorious
clairvoyance produced at Osborne House, Isle of Wight, July 15th
, 1846.’
Stephen Butt, has researched this story in depth showing that some of these well told
stories are not always in line with the underlying facts, as will be seen in the above fairly
familiar quote that frequents spiritualistic literature.
Stephen Butt has had his Georgiana Eagle research published in News Stead. A Journal
of History and Literature: The William T. Stead Memorial Society. Printed in issue
Number 22 Spring 2003. http://www.newsstead.itgo.com. Unfortunately, this journal
ended at issue 25 in 2004. However back issues and interesting information on William
T. Stead is still available on this site.
Stephen has now slightly updated his article having obtained further evidential references
to Georgiana’s last days. I would like to thank him for his valuable contribution in the
input of this article.
………………………………………………………………………………………….
175
GEORGIANA EAGLE - QUEEN VICTORIA’S CLAIRVOYANT
REVEALED
By Stephen Butt
This is a story of illusion and delusion, of a vanishing act that never really took
place, and a mystery still to be solved.
For many years, an embossed gold watch was displayed at the College of Psychic
Studiesi
in London. It was claimed that the watch and the plaque on which it was
mounted was proof that Queen Victoria was interested in spiritualism to the extent that
she participated in séances and consulted mediums. The plaque’s inscriptions also
implied an association between the newspaper editor and social campaigner W.T.Stead
and an unknown clairvoyant by the name of Miss Georgiana Eagle. The watch, rather
irreverently known as `Vicky’s Ticker’, remained on public display in London until it
was stolen in 1963.
The story of the timepiece told of an unknown and undocumented female
clairvoyant who, allegedly, once performed for Queen Victoria; a clairvoyant of whom
nothing has been recorded except this one tantalising reference on the plaque to her
`meritorious and extraordinary clairvoyance’. If she existed at all, and if she did attend
Queen Victoria, why has she remained unrecognised? Royal recognition was much
sought after by the spiritualist movement in its early days, and several of the more
prominent mediums succeeded in gaining the respect and sponsorship of a number of the
crowned heads of Europe. Evidence that Queen Victoria had also taken part in spiritualist
activities (and before such activities were widely popular) would have been of great value
to the English spiritualist movement in its infancy.
The two inscriptions on the plaque, one on each side of the timepiece, read:
'Presented by Her Majesty to Miss Georgiana Eagle for her Meritorious and
Extraordinary Clairvoyance produced at Osborn House, Isle of Wight, July 15th, 1846'
176
'Presented by W. T. Stead to Mrs Etta Wriedt through whose mediumship Queen
Victoria's direct voice was heard in London in July 1911.’
Incorrect assumptions about these inscriptions and the provenance of the watch
have led to rather confused and inaccurate research on the part of earlier writers. For
example, it has been assumed that Georgiana Eagle was an experienced adult spiritualist
medium when it is said she visited Osborne House. In fact, she was still a child. Further
confused thinking has surrounded explanations offered for the incorrect spelling on the
plaque of the Queen’s residence, as the inscription omits the `e’ in Osborne.
Another source of confusion lies in the common understanding of the term
`clairvoyance’ as a description of the activities of clairvoyants in England at that time.
Clairvoyance before the rebirth of English spiritualism in the decade after 1850 involved,
quite literally, `seeing with the eyes closed.’ Normally, practitioners identified or
described objects, either in total darkness or while hidden behind a screen or similar
barrier. Clairvoyance had little association with those who believed they could commune
with the spirit world, or look into the future. When Miss Georgiana Eagle allegedly
performed for Queen Victoria, clairvoyance was regarded as a physical ability, rather
than a spiritual gift.ii
As a consequence of these problems, historians have cast doubt on the
authenticity of the timepiece. For example, the Cambridge University historian Malcolm
Gaskill in his biography of the medium Helen Duncan discounts the accepted history of
the watch with one simple statement:
A watch supposedly presented to medium `Georgiana Eagle’ by the Queen, and later
given to Etta Wriedt by W.T.Stead, was a fake (there was a misspelling in the
engraving).iii
177
The Spiritualists’ Account
Fred Archer, the spiritualist writer and former editor of Psychic News,
published his account of the provenance of the watch in an issue of that newspaper on 23
May 1953. The article was the first in a series on the association of the monarchy with
spiritualism, written to mark the Coronation of the then Queen. iv
However, there is little
evidence to support his claims, which even he declared were remarkable. Archer stated
that Queen Victoria intended to present the watch to the medium known as Georgiana
Eagle, but that Miss Eagle died before the presentation could be made. He further
claimed that the Queen then asked the journalist, newspaper editor and spiritualist
W.T.Stead to arrange for it to be given to another deserving medium. Stead, according to
Archer, consulted other distinguished spiritualists including Sir William Crookes and
Alfred Russel Wallace, and decided that the watch should be given to the American
direct-voice medium Etta Wriedt.
The earlier date on the inscriptions falls just within acceptable parameters with
regard to Victoria and Albert’s association with Osborne House on the Isle of Wight.
Queen Victoria and Prince Albert rented the house for a year's trial in 1844 and
purchased it in the following year when work began on the construction of the present
building. The foundation stone of the Pavilion was laid in July of that year, and this
section of the new house was completed in September 1846. The old house was
completely demolished in 1848 after the household wing of the new building had been
completed. The old house and the Pavilion wing of the present building were therefore in
the ownership of Victoria and Albert, and habitable in part at the time that Georgiana
Eagle is said to have made her memorable visit.v
However, this date would indicate that Queen Victoria was involved in spiritualist
practices several years before spiritualism became a unified movement in England. The
testimony of the Fox sisters in Hydesville, generally regarded as the essential event that
led to the rise of spiritualism in America and then England in the nineteenth century, did
not come to the notice of the public until early in 1848. Spiritualism in England
178
developed in the following decade. The assertion that the Queen was already interested
in such practices before this date also contradicts the claims of many spiritualists that
Victoria was drawn to spiritualism by the death of Albert.vi
More worrying for researchers hoping to confirm the provenance of the watch is
the incorrect spelling of Osborne House and the fact that until recently researchers have
found no evidence that Miss Georgiana Eagle even existed. Several biographers of
Queen Victoriavii
have consequently asked the rhetorical question: `Who was Georgiana
Eagle?’ implying that she was probably merely the invention of a spiritualist writer.
Certainly, the spiritualist movement has been unable to provide an answer. Her name is
not found in any records, and is not known to any spiritualist organisation in any context
other than this timepiece.
Seeking an acceptable explanation for the total lack of information about Miss
Eagle, the writer and psychic investigator Peter Underwood argues that many
clairvoyants avoided publicity:
`There are and always have been many sensitives, clairvoyants and mediums who do not
seek publicity and who practise solely in private. It would not be in the least unlikely that
such a person could give 'meritorious and extraordinary clairvoyance' to Queen Victoria
without there being any special or royal writing to record the fact.’viii
Addressing the problem of the misspelling of Osborne House, Underwood suggests that
one explanation could be the apparent haste with which the plaque had been prepared:
`After all, it would seem that Georgiana Eagle was ill (she is said to have died before she
received the watch) so it could well have been the case that the Queen asked for the
inscription to be completed without delay and the watch despatched with all speed.’
Underwood further suggests that the need for the preparation and presentation
of the watch to be undertaken in haste and in a clandestine manner resulted in mistakes
179
being made that the Queen would not have been aware of. However, it is difficult to
accept that neither the person entrusted with the responsibility of obtaining the engraving,
nor the engraver carrying out the work knew how to spell correctly the name of the
Queen’s residence on the Isle of Wight.
It is also obvious from the shape of the plaque and the position of the watch
upon it that it was designed for two inscriptions. Its construction would suggest that the
inscriptions were made at the same time, probably for the later presentation in 1911.
There is also the problem of the implausibly long time lapse of sixty-five years between
the two events recorded by the inscriptions. After the apparent haste in which the first
inscription is said to have been made, it is supposed that the Queen then waited over forty
years until deciding that another medium should receive her gift.
Although it is certainly the case that many spiritualists who believed they had
mediumistic abilities kept quiet about their powers, Underwood’s theory does not explain
the remarkable lack of any information regarding Georgiana Eagle. How did Queen
Victoria come to know of Miss Eagle if she was not known to any spiritualist group or
organisation? Certainly, research into the early activities of English clairvoyants is
limited by the lack of source material. Accounts of mediumistic activity were published
in numerous journals after 1860, but prior to that date, according to Frank Podmore,
documentation is scarce:
Up until 1860 .... the movement in this country was almost confined to the provinces; the
only periodical which succeeded in establishing itself for more than a few months was
published at Keighley; there was no prominent centre of interest in London, nor had any
publication of importance appeared, in the Metropolis or elsewhere. Towards the end of
the decade 1850-60 however, a small group of literary men and others had become
interested in the subject, and the Spiritual Magazine, which made its appearance in
London in the latter year (1860), continued until the end of 1875 to be the leading organ
of English Spiritualism.ix
180
The earliest date when any account of the activities of mediums was widely published
would seem to be 1855, when the Yorkshire Spiritualist Telegraph was first published in
the April of that year.
Georgiana Eagle – Her Magical Antecedents
Previous researchers have been unable to establish the identity of Georgiana
Eagle because they have been misled by several false assumptions. By working from the
premise that she was an adult medium, probably older than the young Queen Victoria,
researchers looked for proof of her existence much earlier in the century than was
appropriate. By assuming that she was a spiritualist, they searched the listings of
spiritualist publications and the membership records of spiritualist churches and groups,
and consequently missed references to her which were as public as the front page of The
Times in December 1859. Most problematic of all, researchers seemingly failed to
consider the possibility that Miss Eagle could have held a more public persona under a
different name. By looking for the wrong person at the wrong time, they could not, for
instance, recognize the activities of `The Mysterious Lady’ and `Madame Gilliland Card’
as being those of the clairvoyant recorded on the royal plaque.
Miss Georgiana Eagle did exist, and she was certainly alive in 1846. However, on
the date inscribed on the plaque, she was just eleven years of age. The involvement of
children in clairvoyant activities in the first half of the 19th
Century was certainly not
unknown. Emma Hardinge Britten had begun working as a clairvoyant with the Orphic
Circle by 1836, before her thirteenth birthday,x
and Podmore notes other young
practitioners.xi
Georgiana Elizabeth Eagle was born on 28th
November 1834 and baptised on 5th
April 1835 at St Leonard’s, Shoreditch, in the City of London, the eldest surviving
daughter of the magician and illusionist George Barnard Eagle and his wife, Jane. George
Eagle had been born in Barnet in Middlesex, and had been christened on 13th
February
1807 in neighbouring Monken Hadley, a village on the Great North Road. He was the son
181
of George Day Eagle, a publican from Shoreditch, and his wife Elizabeth, and was one of
at least three children. Georgiana’s great grandparents were French, and had settled in
England at the time of the French Revolution.xii
Georgiana, from a very young age, followed in the footsteps of her father. George Eagle
was a flamboyant performer who adopted several grand stage names such as the
`Napoleon of Wizards’ and the `Royal Wizard of the South’, yet his career began in
fairground booths and seemingly never graduated beyond the smaller provincial English
theatres. He also toured under the stage names of `Barnardo’ and `Na Barno’, but was
known to his stage contemporaries simply as `Barney Eagle’.
In the view of the theatre historian Sydney W.Clarkexiii
, Eagle was a `very minor
performer’ doing ordinary tricks in an ordinary way. He was, however, very skilled in
what would now be described as marketing. As theatre critic Michael Kilgarriff
explains, in `Grace, Beauty & Banjos’:
`So potent was Napoleon’s spell that to this very day his once-dread name is
synonymous with superhuman drive and intensity of purpose. Mr Eagle, who
travelled with a large-scale and extremely elaborate magic show, is the only
illusionist we know of to have invoked the Corsican's reputation to amplify
his hyperphysical appeal.’xiv
Eagle became the most notorious imitator of the more renowned stage magician
John Henry Anderson. The `Annals of Conjuring’ describes the fierce competition
between Eagle and Anderson and comments that:
It is rather surprising that Anderson should have thought it worth his while to cross
swords with such a humble member of the conjuring fraternity’.xv
182
It would appear that the sheer scale of Eagle’s attempts to copy and parody Anderson
meant that the more experienced and professional magician was forced to fight back.
Anderson did so by publishing advertisements which allegedly revealed how Eagle
performed his tricks. One such advertisement purported to reveal how Eagle achieved
one of his illusions and is titled “The System of the Impostor”:
Behold the great Bernardo’s system of imposition which he nightly practices on the
inhabitants of Birmingham, building his System of Humbug up by copying the Bills and
Advertisements of J.H.ANDERSON, the Inventor of Ambidextrous Prestidigitation, with
all the list of the Great Wizard of the North’s peculiar technical phrases which
BERNARDO exhibits in his Bills, (as original) yet can neither pronounce nor understand
the meaning of the terms by which he gulls the public.”xvi
Eagle undoubtedly deserved the rebuke. According to magic historian Charles Waller:
Of all Anderson’s imitators, he was the most impudent. He not only trod on Anderson’s
corns, he got underneath his feet on every possible occasion. He stole Anderson’s tricks,
copied his patter, and exactly reproduced his programme and billing matter.
Anderson was convinced that Eagle was illiterate and offered a public bet that his rival
could not read the text of his own advertisement as published on Thursday 18th
November in the Birmingham Advertiser, claiming that it was a direct copy of his own
bill published in the Manchester press in the previous week. The phraseology used by
Anderson suggests a real sense of malice:
Barney, when we last met, I merely ruffled your feathers, this time I’ll pluck you clean,
not one shall be left to spread their (Eagle) wings of imposition.”
However, for all the intensity of Anderson’s wrath, there is no evidence that
Anderson’s expensive retaliations had any effect other than to assure any doubters in the
183
theatre-going public that it was probably actually worth paying to see Eagle. Curiously,
Eagle also has the distinction of being the last conjuror to be threatened with a ducking
by superstitious rustics who regarded him as an associate of the powers of evil. He also
published one book on illusions, his `Barnardo’s Handbook of Magic’ in 1846. It was
ghosted, suggesting that Anderson may have been correct in his public utterances about
Eagle’s ability to read and write.
It is significant that George Eagle incorporated into his act, displays of
mesmerism (or hypnotism). He was certainly not unique in using mesmerism as a form of
stage entertainment at that time, but Eagle’s spin on this popular entertainment was to
place his young daughter in the limelight, and according to one observer, Georgiana was
a `good looking girl’.xvii
An early appearance by father and daughter is reported in the
York Courant on 11 December 1846, describing a performance at the Theatre Royal in
York:
(Mr Eagle was) accompanied by his daughter, a little girl of eleven years of age, who is
styled by her father “The Mysterious Lady”, and judging from her exhibition, the title is
not unworthily or inaptly applied. The young lady appears on the stage, and any person
in the theatre is allowed to blindfold her, and then commences a series of the most
inexplicable mysteries which we ever witnessed.
A further newspaper quotation, from The Yorkshireman, dated 13 December 1846, and
describing the `unmasking of clairvoyance’ by Georgiana Eagle, is quoted as confirming
that the act is a deception, yet even more remarkable than the alleged performances of
`real’ clairvoyants.
Georgiana joined her father on stage, possibly because of the early death of her
mother, and toured extensively with him until his death in 1858. An existing playbill for
the Theatre Royal, Plymouth, for Monday 8 March 1841 confirms that Eagle was touring
by that date.xviii
In 1843, she and her father appeared at the Assembly Room, Globe
Hotel (location not known). Here Eagle describes himself in his publicity as the
184
`ambidextrous prestidigator to Her Majesty the Queen’. Georgiana was billed to appear in
the interval as the `second-sighted child or the enchanted little lady.’ Georgiana also
appeared with her father at Hartlepool Town Hall for three days in January 1847 when
she would have been eleven years of age. Here she was billed as `The Mysterious Lady’,
her act involving mesmerism and clairvoyance.
In February 1846, the year when it is claimed Georgiana performed for Queen
Victoria, a playbill confirms that she appeared with her father at the Ashby Theatre in the
East Midlands. Again, her act involved clairvoyance. One of her tricks was to tell the
time on a watch held by a member of the audience whilst she remained blindfolded on
stage, and again one of the headlines of the playbill is `Clairvoyance unmasked’.
George Eagle travelled to Australia in 1856 to perform at the Royal
Amphitheatre in Melbourne. Apparently, it was a long journey to a relatively
inauspicious venue. In the words of Charles Waller:
At the time of Eagle’s occupancy, the Amphitheatre ranked as a minor establishment.xix
Eagle billed himself as `Wizard of the North, South, East and West’, and news of the
enmity between him and John Henry Anderson preceded him. It is recorded that he
returned for a second short season at the same venue during when, after only two
performances, he chose to give himself a benefit. There is also a curious report of
another illusionist, Professor James Eagle, working in the Victoria area of Australia in
1860 – after George Eagle’s death – who was also billing himself as the `Wizard of the
South’. Perhaps George Barnardo Eagle, the great imitator of Anderson, was also
imitated.xx
Eagle died on 5th
May 1858 in St Peter’s Port on the Channel Island of Guernsey.
Georgiana was present at his death, as he fell ill during a performance on stage. The
local newspaper published a report of the event:
185
On Saturday afternoon, Mr. Barnardo Eagle was engaged in giving an exhibition of
magic and clairvoyance at the Temperance Hall. He suddenly felt unwell and in a few
moments vomited a large quantity of blood. His eldest daughter, with tremulous voice,
announced the sad occurrence to the audience and informed them that as the
entertainment was thereby brought to a termination, the money taken at the door would
be returned.
Mr. Eagle was immediately moved to his lodgings at Mrs. Harrison's, a few
doors below the Temperance Hall, where Dr Benjamin Collenette immediately attended
upon him.
It was found that he had ruptured a large blood vessel in the region of his liver, and the
quantity of blood was so great that it was feared that instant death would follow.
The haemorrhage was, however stopped, but the patient continues in a most precarious
state, and we understand that only slight hopes are entertained of his recovery.'xxi
Eagle’s will gives his widow’s name as Hannah Eagle (nee Edwards), as by 1846,
he had remarried and was father to at least five children by her. Whereas Eagle’s address
is given as 36 Coleman Street (in the City of London), his widow’s address is 57 Park
Street, Dorset Square, Middlesex, near Regent’s Park. Eagle bequeathed his stock of
magician’s tricks and apparatus to Georgiana:
"THIS IS THE LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT of me George Barnard Eagle of London
Artist I give and bequeath unto Georgiana Elizabeth Eagle my eldest daughter the sum of
One hundred pounds sterling together with the whole of my conjuring apparatus to and
for her sole use and benefit absolutely." xxii
Georgiana - Her solo career
186
Her father’s death was, understandably, a turning point in Georgiana’s life and
career. Less than three months after her father’s demise, on 27 July 1858, she married
Charles Card, a reporter and photographer, at St Marylebone Church in London. He was
a reporter from the parish of St Marylebone, and the son of a coach maker.xxiii
In the
following decade there is a notable lack of any record regarding Georgiana’s activities. It
is possible that she failed to capitalize on her father’s name (or notoriety) and left the
touring business because without her father’s gift for self-publicity Georgiana found it
difficult to secure stage bookings. Or perhaps her husband insisted that she remained at
home. However, on 23rd
and 24th
December 1859, she placed an advertisement in The
Times, seeking work:
Private Parties Attended for Christmas Holidays. Miss Georgiana Eagle, the celebrated
enchantress, will give her wonderful, amusing and scientific entertainment in Magic
(with splendid apparatus). Electro biology and mesmerism in London and the vicinity.
Address: 176 Tottenham Court Road.
In September 1867, Georgiana’s life changed course again. By that year she
was a widow. She married Alfred George Joseph Aloysius Gilliland, a professor of music
who was to become her manager and agent. Alfred Gilliland had been born in about
1842/4 in Grahamstown, a small settlement near Port Elizabeth in the Cape Province area
of what is now South Africa. He was the son of Frederick Thomas Gilliland, also a
professor of music.
Their marriage took place on 25 August 1867 at St Stephen’s Church, Coleman
Street in the City of London, and their residence is given on their marriage certificate as
16 Tokenhouse Yard, London, a small yard in the heart of the City of London off
Throgmorton Street. In a short while she returned to the stage. She appeared in public
again in about 1872 as Madame Gilliland Card, billed now as `the world-famous wizard
queen, humourist and mesmerist.’ In that year, she performed at the Royal Agricultural
Hall in London, giving her `novel and renowned magical, comical, musicale and
sensational mesmeric entertainment’ with her second husband as the supporting act, who
187
was billed as `the musical phenomenon, vocal comedian and versatile grotesque
instrumentalist.’ In the following year they appeared together at the Athenaeum in Bristol
on 5th
May 1873.
Later that year, Georgiana appeared at the Corn Exchange, Cheltenham for six
nights from Monday 1st
December 1873 where she was billed as the `World Famed
Wizard Queen, Humourist and Clairvoyant Mesmerist (from the Royal Agricultural Hall,
London)’. The programme for these nights was:
Part 1st
Temple of Fairyland, her mirthful and startling Exhibition in Japanese and European
Magical Illusions.
Part 2nd
Magical interlude by Mr Alfred G. Abney
Part 3rd
Mesmerism by Madame G. Card.
A further playbill confirms that the couple also performed together at the Berner’s Hall of
the Agricultural Hall in Islington, though the date is not known. Abney is billed as being
`from New York, U.S’. According to The Annals of Conjuring, her chief illusion at this
time was the now obsolete `bird cage and skeleton stand’.
It was perhaps part of a clever advertising campaign – a gift for self-promotion
no doubt learned from her father – but at the same time as her normal playbills were
published, notices also appeared making charges against her style of hypnotism. In the
1881 census, the couple is listed as living at 76 Torranio Avenue in London. No children
are mentioned, but her occupation is described as an `artist’.
188
Georgiana married thirdly, a man who was her junior by twenty five years. He
was Harold Pashley, a draper. They married on 30 May 1888 in Kentish Town and their
home was at 2 Montpelier Road in the Finchley district of London. In the 1901 Census,
they are recorded as living at 41 Albert Street in the St Pancras district. No children are
mentioned, but the census records that Georgiana’s niece, Alice Eagle, then aged twenty
two years, the daughter of Georgiana’s younger half-brother, William Thomas Eagle, is
living with them.
Georgiana was buried on 10 March 1911 at the age of seventy six years in
Abney Park cemetery, Stoke Newington, London, where her second husband Alfred
Gilliland was buried on 14 September 1882.
Queen Victoria and W.T.Stead
As with other elements of the story, it is difficult to accept the claim that Queen
Victoria later contacted W.T.Stead for advice about who should be the final recipient of
the watch. Stead was well-known as a newspaper editor and social campaigner, but was
not converted to spiritualism until 1892, more than forty years after the date when the
watch was to have been presented to Georgiana Eagle (though of course he considered
and investigated spiritualist activities before this date). Although it is known that
Victoria approved of Stead’s work in rescuing children and women from prostitution, it
would seem more likely that the Queen, if seeking a senior figure in the spiritualist
movement, would, though a trusted third party perhaps, have contacted the Society for
Psychical Research or some similar organisation with standing.
It does appear possible that the American medium Etta Wriedt did become the
owner of the watch. She made several visits to the British Isles, and `performed’ in
Wimbledon, near London, in May 1911 as Stead’s guest, two months before the later
date on the plaque, though there is no record of if, when or where she received the watch.
The date on the plaque is, of course, some nine months before Stead lost his life in the
189
Titanic disaster. According to Fred Archer, Wriedt later decided that the watch should be
returned to England, and asked the former Canadian Prime Minister, William Lyon
Mackenzie King, who often attended her séances, to deliver it. He passed the watch to the
Duchess of Hamilton and she presented it to the College of Psychic Science, where it
remained until stolen in 1963.
Georgiana Eagle, Gilliland and W.T.Stead
Although the exact relationship between Alfred Gilliland and the Gilliland
family into which W.T.Stead’s daughter married is not yet clear, Georgiana Eagle’s
marriage in September 1867 to her manager and secretary Alfred Gilliland links the two
inscriptions on the plaque.xxiv
This familial connection offers a far more acceptable
explanation for W.T.Stead’s interest in the watch than the story told by Fred Archer.
There may also be descendants of Georgiana Eagle still to be identified: there is a record
of a further marriage of a Georgiana Elizabeth Gilliland in the St Pancras district of
London in June 1888, who may be a daughter of Georgiana and Alfred. At about this
time, it is noted that the manager of the Athenaeum in Bristol, where Georgiana and
Alfred Gilliland performed in May 1873, was an M.Gilliland.xxv
More is now known of the Gilliland family to whom Stead was related through
his daughter Pearl. Three members of this family worked on the staff of the Daily
Telegraph in London. They were brothers William and John, and their father, also
named William. William Gilliland (senior), who was born in 1843, married Margaret
Mulligan in Bristol in June 1876. She was born in 1853, the daughter of an Irish merchant
called Thomas Mulligan who had been born in1813. This William Gilliland became an
assistant editor on the Daily Telegraph, distinguished himself as a war correspondent, and
later joined the Reuters news agency.
William and Margaret’s eldest son, William (1878-1937) also became a journalist
and later joined the Daily Telegraph. Pearl Stead (1889-1973), daughter of W.T Stead,
married the younger son, John Mulligan Gilliland (1883-1940). He became the third
190
member of his family to follow journalism as a career, and followed in his father and
brother’s footsteps. With the Telegraph, John became a distinguished reporter `in the
field’, covering dramatic stories such as a journey undertaken by a specially-designed
motor vehicle from Cape Town to Cairo in 1913, on which he travelled as one of the
passengers, filing regular reports throughout the journey up the spine of the African
continent. John’s obituary in the Daily Telegraph on 6th
July 1940 read:
Mr J.M.Gilliland yesterday, in London, aged 57. He had been on the editorial staff of The
Daily Telegraph for many years and was the son of a former assistant editor.
John M.Gilliland and Pearl had two children, John Roy Stead Gilliland (1918-1986), who
married Joan C.Speckett (born 1924) and Peggie Gilliland (born 1921). John and Joan
Gilliland had four children, three of whom married and had children.
Conclusions
Confirmation of the identity of Georgiana Eagle and her connection by marriage
with the Gilliland and Stead families does not allow unqualified support for the story of
the watch. The early date on the inscription of 1846 would appear to be acceptable, given
that the young Georgiana was appearing on stage with her father at that time.
Although there is no documentary evidence yet of the Eagles’ performance at
Osborne House, their tour `circuit’ was based on the south of England, a geographical
area which would obviously have included the Isle of Wight. On several playbills,
George Eagle claimed to have performed for Queen Victoria and other members of the
Royal family. A playbill, undated but about 1847, reproduced in Albert Wood’s
`Victorian Delights’, claims that `the Royal Wizard’, Mr Barnardo Eagle, had been
patronised by three crowned heads, namely George IV, William IV and Queen Victoria.
Eagle described himself as the `royal wizard of the South’, suggesting, or at least
claiming, royal consent to his act, and as the `ambidextrous prestidigator to Her Majesty
the Queen’.
191
There is no mention in any reference material to Georgiana or her father being
involved in spiritualism. She was a stage performer, and although she used descriptive
phrases on playbills as `manipulator of the twilight zone’, she publicised herself as an
illusionist and not a medium. Several playbills, including one dated 1846, seem to scorn
the claims of mediums, promising that Georgina will reveal their trickery, and unmask
their fraud. The billing for the appearances of the Eagles at the Ashby Theatre in
February 1846 even describes Georgiana as the `gigantic destroyer of the fraud of
clairvoyance’. As noted above, one element of Eagle’s publicity material was to perform,
through trickery and deception, greater illusions than the so-called `real’ mediums of the
day. Only in the Guernsey newspaper report of George Eagle’s death is there a reference
to (his) `magic and clairvoyance’ act. It seems, therefore, highly improbable that
Georgiana would have appeared before Queen Victoria in the role of a spiritualist
clairvoyant.
The claim that Georgiana died before the watch could be presented to her has led
researchers to assume that Georgiana was of mature years by 1846 and consequently died
soon after her alleged appearance at Osborne House. In fact, she was still performing on
stage in the 1870s and possibly later. The story could only be true if the presentation of
the watch was planned much later than 1846.
Conjecture should not be a tool of the historian and researcher but can perhaps
offer one conclusion to this story. Perhaps the young clairvoyant and her father were
invited to perform in private before Queen Victoria, and the queen was so entranced by
the young girl’s charming disposition that she gave her an impromptu gift of the gold
watch. Georgiana treasured this souvenir of the moment she met the Queen of England,
and, on her death, this fascinating artefact and the story of the event it recorded passed
from her second husband, Alfred Gilliland, to his descendants within the Gilliland family
line, finally reaching John Mulligan Gilliland who acquainted his father-in-law,
W.T.Stead, with its history.
192
It is also possible that Georgiana attended a séance conducted by Etta Wriedt.
Georgiana died in March 1911 which just postdates Wriedt’s first visits to London.
Perhaps Stead felt that this artefact was the perfect `gift’ for the well-known direct-voice
medium Etta Wriedt, through whom, it is said, Queen Victoria’s voice was heard at
séances in London and elsewhere. Wriedt visited England on five occasions, the earliest
being in 1911, and may have accepted the gift and returned with it to America. An
alternative hypothesis therefore suggests itself, that Georgiana attended one of Wriedt’s
séances, and was so moved by hearing Queen Victoria’s voice through the mediumship
of Wriedt that she volunteered to present the watch to the medium, perhaps in the
knowledge that she was close to the end of her own life.
William Lyon Mackenzie King was born in Ontario, Canada, in 1874 and served
three terms as Prime Minister of Canada between 1929 and 1948. He was educated at the
Universities of Toronto, Chicago and Harvard, and as well as his political qualifications
and experience, King was a journalist, editor and author. At the time of Wriedt’s visits
to London in 1911, he was reaching the end of a term in Government in which he had
served as the Liberal Minister of Labour. He returned to Canadian Government in 1921
as the country’s tenth Prime Minister. His last political appointment was in 1949, and he
died on 22 July 1950 in Quebec. Biographers describe him as being a very `ordinary’
person:
He had no captivating image, he gave no spellbinding speeches, he championed no
radical platform. He is remembered for his mild-mannered, passive compromise and
conciliation. Yet Mackenzie King led Canada for a total of twenty-two years, through half
the Depression and all of the Second World War. Like every other prime minister, he had
to possess ambition, stamina and determination to become prime minister and, in spite of
appearances, his accomplishments in that role required political acuity, decisiveness and
faultless judgement.xxvi
King’s involvement in spiritualism is well-documented. He took up spiritualism
in about 1919, and continued to practice and investigate it for the remainder of his life.
Together with his close friend Joan Patteson and mediums such as Etta Wriedt, it is said
193
that he communed with a variety of spirits, including his mother, his grandfather William
Lyon Mackenzie, St Luke and St John, all of whom he regularly consulted on his career
and life. His strong spiritualist beliefs and friendship with Etta Wriedt suggests that King
would have been inclined to such an act as the return of the watch to England. An
incident recounted by a personal friend reveals that he also held England in strong
affection:
The most extraordinary acquisition came in the darkest days of the Second World War
when Britain’s survival seemed to hang by a thread. Late one night in 1941, Mr.
Pearson, then on the staff at Canada House, was called at home with a “Secret and Most
Immediate” cable. It was not some decision that would change the fortunes of war, but a
request from the Prime Minister for a few stones from the Palace of Westminster, which
King had learned, had just been bombed by the Germans. As Pearson notes in his
memoirs, the Office of Works was overwhelmed with repairs vital to the very life of
London. Nevertheless, the British, with private comments happily unrecorded, complied
with the request. “This heavy and historic freight was shipped safely through the
submarines to add a new distinction to Mr. King’s ruins at Kingsmere.”xxvii
Likewise, the third Duchess of Hamilton had a strong interest in spiritualism and
in many `fringe’ sciences. She is regarded, for instance, as one of the earliest and
strongest supporters of Homeopathy.
As for the notorious misspelling of Osborne House, perhaps it was Mackenzie
King, and not Queen Victoria, who commissioned the plaque and its confusing
inscriptions. Even more likely is that the plaque was constructed by a well-meaning
person who was involved at the time the watch first went on display at the College of
Psychic Studies, probably in the years immediately following the Second World War.
194
Acknowledgements
Alexandra Erskine, Librarian, Daily Telegraph. - Information regarding John and
William Gilliland, and the Cape to Cairo Motor trial.
Frank W Dailey, Historian, Society of American Magicians. – Extracts from various
journals and reference material in the society’s possession.
Peter Lane, Executive Librarian, the Magic Circle, London. – Copies of Eagle playbills in
his private collection.
Jill Berthelemy and Tim Robb – Extensive Eagle family history details from their private
collections.
Grace Eckley, Editor, `NewStead’ (Journal of the W.T.Stead Memorial Society) –
Information regarding W.T.Stead and Queen Victoria.
References
i
Formerly the London Spiritualist Alliance and then the College of Psychic Science.
ii
See Frank Podmore, Mediums of the 19th
Century, (University Books Inc, New York,
reprinted 1963),Vol 1,141-153, for a (critical) description of the performance of
clairvoyants contemporary with the young Georgiana Eagle.
iii
Malcolm Gaskill, Hellish Nell, (Fourth Estate, London, 2001) 266.
iv
Fred Archer, Psychic News, Issue 1094, London, 23 May 1953, 1-2 under the banner
“Queen Victoria’s Séance”. A photograph of the watch and its plaque is reproduced at the
foot of the front page.
v
Information from the National Monuments Record, English Heritage South East Region
Facilities Branch, Osborne House, Isle of Wight, courtesy of the curator, Michael Hunter.
vi
Albert died in 1861. Spiritualists have long claimed that, whilst in mourning, Queen
Victoria sought the mediumship of spiritualist and journalist Robert James Lees, and later
of her servant at Balmoral, John Brown.
vii
Elizabeth Longford, Victoria RI, (London, Wiedenfeld & Nicholson, 1964) 337.
viii
Peter Underwood, Queen Victoria’s Other World, (London, Harrap, 1986) 106-8.
195
ix
Podmore, Vol.2, 163.
x
Robert Mathiesen, The Unseen Worlds of Emma Hardinge Britten: Some Chapters in
the History of Western Occultism, in Theosophical History Occasional Papers, Vol IX,
(Pasadena, California, The Theosophical Society, 2001), p.12.
xi
Podmore, Vol.2, 160ff.
xii
Amy Dawes in Frances Marshall (compiled), Those Beautiful Dames, (Magic
Incorporated, Chicago, April 1984) 45.
xiii
Sidney W.Clarke, The Annals of Conjuring, (New York, The Miracle Factory,
2001),141
xiv
Michael Kilgarriff, Grace, Beauty and Banjos- Peculiar Lives and Strange Times of
Music Hall and Variety Artistes, (London, Theatre Communications Group Inc, 1998)
p.96.
xv
Clarke, 141.
xvi
Clarke, 224.
xvii
In the opinion of Charles Waller in Magical Knights in the Theatre, (Gerald Taylor,)
17.
xviii
Extant playbills consulted are as follows: Theatre Royal Plymouth, 5 April 1641
(George Eagle), Assembly Room Globe Hotel, 4/5 October 1843 (George Eagle and
`Miss Eagle’), Ashby Theatre, 12-18 February 1846 (George Eagle), Town Hall
Hartlepool, 26-28 January 1847 (George Eagle and `The Mysterious Lady’), Berner’s
Hall Islington, 1872 (Madame Gilliland Card), Athenaeum Bristol, 5 May 1878 (Madame
Gilliland Card), Corn Exchange Cheltenham, 1 December 1873 (Madame Gilliland
Card).
xix
Waller, 17.
xx
There are references to Prof James Eagle in the Victoria Police Gazette (2 August
1860) regarding the theft of one of his tricks, and in the Maryborough & Dunolly
Advertiser (8 August 1860), Ballaarat Star (25 August 1860) and the North Western
Chronicle (27 September 1860) regarding his performances. The above are all provincial
newspapers within the Victoria region. There is a further reference to this illusionist in
James Bodell, A Soldier’s View of Empire: Reminiscences of James Bodell 1831-1842,
(Ed Keith Sinclair, 1982).
xxi
News report in The Star, Guernsey, 4 May 1858.
196
xxii
Probate of George Barnard Eagle “of 36 Coleman St, London Auction Mart,
Gentleman, died 5 May 1858, in Guernsey. Will Probated 19 June 1858, Principal
Registry Executor: Hannah Eagle of 57 Park Street, Dorset Square, Middlesex the
widow, the relict & one of the executors”.
xxiii
“Marriage: County of Middlesex. 159. 27th July 1858. Husband: Charles Card, of full
age, bachelor, reporter, St Marylebone, son of Charles Card, coachmaker. Wife:
Georgiana Elizabeth Eagle, of full age, spinster, St Marylebone, daughter of George
Barnard Eagle, artist. Married in the Parish Church according to the Rites and
Ceremonies of the Established Church, by Licence, by me, W. Burton Crickmer, Curate.
This marriage was solemnized between us, Charles Card and Georgiana Elizabeth Eagle,
in the Presence of us, Mark Perks and Eliza Edwards”.
xxiv
Amy Dawes.
xxv
A note in the index to playbills at the Templeman Library, University of Kent at
Canterbury.
xxvi
Canada's Prime Ministers, 1867 - 1994: Biographies and Anecdotes. [Ottawa]:
National Archives of Canada, [1994]
xxvii
Robert A. J. Phillips, in a talk given to the Historical Society of the Gatineau, Canada,
Sept 1981
………………………………………………………………………………………
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on the
web site www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-
mail entitled “ Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “ Unsubscribe” to
discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer e-mail. Psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt.
