{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v1_n17_sep_2005.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V1 N17 Sep 2005","mylang":"de"}
197
PSYPIONEER
PSYPIONEER
PSYPIONEER
PSYPIONEER Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by Paul Gaunt
An Electronic Newsletter
Volume 1, No 17. September 2005.
Highlights of this issue
Editorial. 197
International Institute for Psychical Investigation.
By Leslie Price. 198
What Happened to the Autobiography by Kate Fox Jencken?
By Paul Gaunt. 208
Voice, Technology and the Victorian Ear.
By Professor Stephen Connor. 209
How to obtain previous issues of Psypioneer and to subscribe free. 217
………………………………………………………………………………….
EDITORIAL
The B.B.C. 2., documentary ‘Science and Séance’ screened on Wednesday 31st
August
2005, was in my view an excellent representation of what can be achieved when facts and
events are allowed to stand for themselves. A pleasing alternative to the usual offering of
television programmes based on biased misinformation and ill-founded scepticism.
This nicely balanced programme was refreshing in its entirety reflecting the views and
archive footage of some of spiritualisms and psychical research’s most prominent
influences of the past like Lodge and Doyle.
Professors David Fontana and Archie Roy, with authors, Roy Stemman and Barbara
Weisberg gave interviews to a high, and well-informed standard throughout the
programme. Which was presented in an impartial, professional way by Dr. Richard
Noakes who is an Historian of Science.
As this was screened in the U.K., many of our subscribers may not have had the
opportunity of viewing this constructive programme. If I were to be at all critical of the
programme there would be only one point of reference that I would make. On the
programmes onset viewers are advised by the programmes narrator, Richard Denton, that
198
‘’Kate and her sister Maggie established a simple Yes, No, code and questioned the
sound as if it was a person’’ This was in fact incorrect (See, What is Known of the
Hydesville Peddler? Psypioneer 9 page 82)
It is not often that such attention and detail is directed to a T.V., programme on
spiritualistic phenomena and my praise goes to all those involved.
There is a BBC reference to this program on: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/4185356.stm
For those who did not have the opportunity to watch the programme much of the focus
was on the scientific relationship and parallels of the then new sciences in nineteenth
century communications, machine and medium!
This reminded me of an interesting paper that I had read some time ago by a Professor of
Modern Literature and Theory at Birkbeck College London; Professor Stephen Connor.
Voice, Technology and the Victorian Ear. Stephen has kindly given Psypioneer
permission to re-print this. As this paper has already been put into print I would also like
to thank Manchester University Press for giving Psypioneer the opportunity and, again
the permission of re-printing this. 'Voice, Technology and the Victorian Ear', in Transactions
and Encounters: Science and Culture in the Nineteenth Century', Roger Luckhurst and Josephine
McDonagh (Eds.), 2002, Manchester University Press, Manchester, UK.
Thanks also to Leslie Price, for the contribution of his valuable article: International
Institute for Psychical Investigation.
……………………………………………………………………………………………..
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE
For PSYCHICAL INVESTIGATION.
By
LESLIE PRICE
In 1934, a group of Spiritualists formed a new research body called the International
Institute for Psychical Investigation. Why did they do this, given the prior existence of
the SPR, BCPS, and LSA with its own research group? And why, like so many psychic
groups, did it rise, and fall into acrimony. We hope to reprint a variety of records,
beginning with news reports from LIGHT of the early months. Note that the original title
included the words “ Psychical Research” This cannot have been pleasing to other
199
London bodies with similar titles such as the SPR., which was truly international, and
perhaps they protested..
The first news came on January 5 1934.
NEW RESEARCH INSTITUTE
THROUGH the initiative of the Survival League, a new research organisation called
"The International Institute for Psychical Research " has come into being. It has been
formed for the purpose of investigating psychic phenomena on strictly scientific lines,
and it has already enrolled a number of distinguished scientists both in active and in
consultative capacity. Professor Grafton Elliot Smith (biologist) is the president;
Professor D. F. Fraser-Harris (physiologist) is the research officer. The other office
bearers are announced as follows VICE-PRESIDENTS: Shaw Desmond, Prof. Julian
Huxley, and Prof. E. W. MacBride.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE: J. Arthur Findlay (Chairman), Prof. Fraser-Harris, Lieut.
Commander John S. Dove (Assistant Honorary Research Officer), Leslie J. Belton,
Captain the Hon. Victor Cochrane-Baillie, Shaw Desmond, John Evelyn, Nandor Fodor,
Gerald Heard, A. M. Low, Dr. Sam Sloan, William Stephenson, Mrs. C. A. Dawson Scott
(Organising Secretary).
CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE: Charles M. R. Balbi, Sir Ernest Bennett, Dr. William
Brown, Prof. Hans Driesch, Prof. Lovatt Evans, Prof. W. E. Gibbs, C. C. L. Gregory,
Prof. Julian Huxley, Sir Oliver Lodge, Colonel Arthur Lynch, Prof. E. W. MacBride,
Prof. Alan F. C. Pollard, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Prof. G. Elliot Smith, Dr. William Stede,
Brunel White.
The Secretarial office (pro tem.) is at 125 Alexandra Road, London, N. W.8.
(Telephone. Maida Vale 2191).
……………………………………
Problems began at once with the loss of the president, as reported on May 25
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE
The International Institute for Psychical Research announces the commencement of its
activities. Séance room and laboratories have been established at 16, Queensberry Place,
London, S.W.7. The investigations will be carried out by the Research Officer, Professor
Fraser-Harris. He will be assisted by a number of friends who have specialised in their
respective sciences. The equipment of the Laboratory is proceeding. Persons desirous of
helping could do so by the donation of scientific instruments. Results of the researches
will, from time to time, be published in the appropriate journals.
The Research Officer would be pleased to receive accounts of supernormal experiences
of all types for the files of the Institute, for analysis and for investigation.
200
Acting on the advice of his physician, Professor G. Elliot Smith has resigned the
presidency of the Institute.
.
Alas, the research officer had scarcely time to open his post before he too fell by the way,
as readers learned on June 15..
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE
Dr. Nandor Fodor has been elected Research Officer of the International Institute for
Psychical Research. The election leaves Dr. Fodor's position as Assistant Editor of
LIGHT unaffected. Several lines of investigation are being initiated at the Institute's
Laboratory at 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.7., in which the new Research Officer, who
takes the place of Professor Fraser-Harris, will be assisted by well-known men of
science.
But sharing premises with another body, the LSA, however convenient for Dr Fodor who
already worked for LIGHT, was not ideal. New ones were quickly found, as reported on
August 17..
THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE
The International Institute for Psychical Research has secured premises at 21,
Harrington Road, South Kensington, S. W.7. They consist of a séance room, office, dark
room, workshop and washing room. Alterations are being made to fit the premises for the
Society's work. The services of Miss May Carter have been secured for the Secretarial
post. The Society hopes to begin activities at an early date.
At last it was possible to make a start, and the official opening took place. A glowing
account appeared in LIGHT for November 1. Here Shaw Desmond was identified as
founder.
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE
A PLASTERCAST PROOF OF MATERIALISATION
THE official opening of the International Institute for Psychical Research at 21
Harrington Road; London, S.W.7, on Saturday afternoon last (October 27th) was a
brilliant affair. Close on a hundred people were present--leaders of psychic thought,
army and navy officers, and members of the scientific fraternity and of all other learned
professions. Tea was served in the large lecture room. Adjoining it is a small office and,
separated by a removable partition, an up-to-date séance room. A perfectly equipped
dark room, which also serves as a workshop, a dressing room and a private inside
staircase from the third floor complete the premises. The rooms are nicely furnished and
have a very pleasant home-like atmosphere.
201
To demonstrate the methods of instantaneous infrared photography, the lecture room was
darkened and Mr. Leon Isaacs, the official photographer of the Institute, took a flashlight
photograph. A red glow was seen for the fraction of a second. Everyone agreed that the
torture of the white flash, which gave Mediums such shocks, will henceforth be a thing of
the past.
The proceedings were opened by Mr. J. Arthur Findlay, the Chairman of the Institute. He
stated that the stormy period was over and the Institute was now firmly established. It is
not a society for the exposure of Mediums but for the finding of genuine phenomena by
strictly scientific but very sympathetic and patient inquiry. No report would be issued to
prove that with certain people phenomena do not occur. Reaching a dead end, the inquiry
would be dropped. If fruitful, in due time, a report would be forthcoming.
Research Officer Dr. Nandor Fodor reported on a short series of trumpet sittings with
Mr. Frank Edouin, and stated that the inquiry will be resumed. In the meantime plans are
afoot for other voice sittings, which may be open to a large number of members.
On November 9th, Dr. Dudley d'Auvergne Wright is beginning a study of human
radiations with special regard to healing Mediums. They should volunteer their services
for a photographic record of the emission from their hands. It is hoped that by extensive
study a unit may be found to measure such radiations.
Plans are also being considered for the duplication of the famous infra-atomic quantity
experiment, which appeared to prove that a counterpart of the physical body is liberated
at death from every living thing. Further, the Council is promised a demonstration by
Yoga methods, of human levitation, to take place on December 1st.
Keen interest was shown in Dr. Fodor's account of two sittings with Mrs. Annie Brittain.
He said he saw a materialised hand come out of the curtain and was allowed to grip it in
good light. He also witnessed the making of a paraffin glove and plastercast of the same
hand. He showed the cast. While it was not perfect, the fingers were holding Dr. Fodor's
own secretly-marked pencil in the palm of the hand. Conjointly with other and better
casts taken under similar conditions on previous occasions (these casts were also on
view), an excellent case for materialisation appears to have been made out.
Supplemented by infra-red photographs the case would be ripe for submission to the
Royal Society.
Mr. Shaw Desmond, the Vice President and Founder of the Institute, made an
impassioned and eloquent appeal for support. He said that the Institute had come into
being at a favourable psychological moment. All the difficulties of its inception were
foretold to him from the other side, but he was also assured, as already apparent, that
regarding the future of the Institute he need have no apprehension.
More information about Shaw Desmond hats was given on November 15.
202
MR. SHAW DESMOND
Mr. Shaw Desmond's psychic activities are growing impressively. He is President of the
Survival League, Vice-President of the International Institute for Psychical Research,
and now he has been elected President of the Leicester Society for Psychical Research.
Our congratulations on this latest office. The Leicester S.P.R., under the Chairmanship of
Capt. C. E. Loseby, announces the beginning of activities.
Details were also given of the new leadership.
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Now that the International Institute for Psychical Research has successfully gone through
a period of reorganisation and begun what we hope will be a very useful programme of
practical inquiry, readers will be interested to have a list of those composing the
Executive Council. They are: Mr. Arthur Findlay (Chairman), Dr. Nandor Fodor
(Research Officer), Mr. Shaw Desmond, Mr. H. Saville Collins, Mr. Stanley De Brath,
Dr. Joekes, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Mrs. Hewat McKenzie, Countess Purtscher-Wydenbruck,
Mrs. Elizabeth Severn, Ph.D., Dr. William Stephenson, Ph.D., M. Sc.
The Institute's rooms at 21 Harrington Road, London, S. W.7, are well fitted for research
work, and we understand that some very important investigations are being planned.
On November 5, however, a great loss had occurred. We will pause to give some detail
about this pioneer, from LIGHT November 15, as she is now almost forgotten.
MRS. DAWSON SCOTT
FOUNDER OF THE SURVIVAL LEAGUE PASSES ON
BY the death of Mrs. Catharine Amy Dawson Scott, Spiritualism and Psychical Research
have suffered a great loss. For some months past she suffered from a weak heart, but her
passing, which occurred on November 5th, was quite unexpected by her many friends.
Mrs. Dawson Scott held a place of eminence in the literary world as authoress and poet.
She was an exceptionally good organiser, and the founder of the To-morrow Club (1911),
of the P.E.N. Club (1921), and of the Survival League (1919)[misprint for 1929- P.P.].
She was also one of those who launched the International Institute for Psychical
Research. She was the authoress of two psychic books, From Four Who Are Dead, and Is
This Wilson? and she edited the Survival League's two small volumes A Guide to Psychic
Knowledge.
203
Mrs. Dawson Scott was a woman of vision and enterprise. She had high ideals of service,
and knew how to realise them. No doubt she will earn the reward of a well-spent life in
the higher world. One wonders whether she had not some intimation of her approaching
death, for during the last few months she gradually laid down her offices and
responsibilities. She was Hon. Secretary of the Survival League as well as of the
International Institute, but resigned from both and relinquished all the duties in which
she formerly took much pleasure. Her memory will be honoured both in the world of
literature and in the psychic movement.
The daughter of Mr. Ebenezer Dawson, she was born at Dulwich, and was educated at
the Anglo German College, Camberwell. She began earning her living at 18 as a
secretary, and at 21 published an epic of women's rights entitled " Sappho." Her second
book of poems came out three years later, followed by a number of novels remarkable for
their character drawing and psychological insight. She collaborated with the late Mr. H.
D. Lowry in "Wheal Darkness," and edited with Mr. Ernest Rhys a large number of
stories of various kinds.
She married Dr. Horatio Scott and had two sons and one daughter
NOVELIST AND SENSITIVE By THE EDITOR
MRS. C. A. DAWSON-SCOTT-whose unexpected death is recorded on another page-had
won wide fame as a novelist and organiser. But it was not so well known that she was a
Sensitive through whom a long series of very interesting communications was obtained
from the " Other Side," and that she had the capacity of projecting her consciousness, so
that she could see and hear at a distance from the spot in which her bodily presence was
located.
A description of her experiences was given in a book with the title From Four Who Are
Dead, published in July, 1926 (Arrowsmith, London), which is now rather difficult to
obtain.
My recollection of the book was that it contained matter of much interest, and this
recollection was amply justified when-on hearing of Mrs. Scott's death -1 obtained a copy
from the L.S.A. library and re-read it. My estimate is that it is one of the best books of its
kind ever published in this country, and that, in itself, it provides a complete refutation of
the oft-repeated assertion that nothing but trivialities come through Mediumistic
channels.
In the opening chapter of the book, Mrs. Scott described how she became aware of her
psychic gifts. Very frankly she explained that her attitude to religion and the supernatural
was agnostic. "My attention being concentrated on every-day existence," she wrote, " I
204
felt little or no interest in the future. I did not know whether death obliterated the
individual; I did not care. "
Her discovery was made in a curious way. " Resting after the mid-day meal," she wrote, "
-I found that soon after I closed my eyes I saw in front of me a dark tunnel. Curiosity took
me through it. I stepped out of the tunnel into unknown country, into a new world. I found
I could move about in this new world, walk through the wood and along the seashore, go
past cream-coloured houses which were standing in hot sunshine. "
Later, she found that while resting she could go through this tunnel into different rooms
in her own house, and that she could see and speak to a friend who was " dead " and who
asked her to convey a message to his sorrowing wife, but she does not say that she ever
made much use of this gift.
The messages recorded in the book came from her husband (Dr. Scott), George Dawson
(her cousin), H. D. Lowry, and W. T. Stead. Interest, I think, centres chiefly in the
messages from her husband.
After some experiments, her process of receiving the messages was: To empty her mind,
fix it on the person of whom she was thinking, draw one or two long breaths, and then
wait.
" Before my closed eyes," she wrote, " words would presently begin to form. These I
scribbled down, then closed my eyes again and waited for more." This would appear to
have been a form of clairvoyance rather than automatic or inspirational writing.
The messages received in this way were exceedingly interesting. Her husband told of his
passing, of his experiences on the "Other Side," of his thought-body, and of the
opportunities for development.
" We learn, we grow, our natures unfold," he told her. The possibilities which are
smothered during our earth-life are able to develop. When we get here,
we are often stunted, repressed, damaged. We are bitter, soured, disappointed, unhappy.
Light and healing await us. Here are surroundings which assist our growth and
development in every way. What we were meant to be, that we become.
And now Mrs. Scott has gone on to test for herself the accuracy of the information given
to her and through her to all
(The editor of LIGHT in question was George Lethem. )
In 1987, Mrs Marjorie Watts, daughter of Mrs Dawson Scott, published a biography of
her mother “ Mrs Sappho” (London, Duckworth.). Mrs Watts was not in sympathy with
her mother’s Spiritualist activities, nor always in touch with them, but she does give
essential background detail on her life, and devotes a chapter to the establishment of the
Survival League.,
205
Despite the loss of Mrs Dawson Scott, the first public lecture of the new Institute was
held on 16 November, when Mrs Barbara McKenzie spoke of “ Famous mediums I have
investigated”. This was an interesting choice, given that these (Ada Besinnet and Evan
Powell) had been at BCPS, founded by her late husband Hewat McKenzie.- why then
start a new institute? A possible answer was given by her and then by two colleagues.
Psychical Research and Spiritualism needed each other, and excellent work could be
accomplished by the new Institute, in which the leaders were Spiritualists who would
carry on necessary research work in the most careful and sympathetic manner.
INSTITUTE'S ARRANGEMENTS
Mr. Arthur Findlay, who was in the chair, paid tribute to the memory of Mrs. Dawson
Scott, who was one of the founders of the Institute. Then he spoke of the arrangements in
progress for the duplication of Dr. R. A. Watters' experiments for photographing the
astral body of insects and small animals in the Wilson Expansion Chamber, which
physicists use for the study of atomic bombardments. These experiments will be
conducted by a well-known London physicist. The results, if positive, will go a long way
to give support to the vitalistic school of thought against the mechanistic one by proving
that something actually leaves the physical body at death; for the inference would
obviously present itself that the same thing happens with higher organised beings.
Dr. Nandor Fodor (Research Officer), added that the American experiments will be
improved upon, inasmuch as it was planned to take cinematograph pictures of the
interior of the expansion chamber. For atomic research, this has been done already, and
the co-operation of a man with such experience will be assured. Experiments are being
initiated, Dr. Fodor stated, with instantaneous photography by ultra-violet light in
darkness, and it is hoped that the photographs may reveal the normally invisible part of
ectoplasmic structures. An important step is also to be taken in the study of the Direct
Voice. On December 4th, in a sitting for eighty people, to be given by Mrs. Perriman, an
attempt will be made to record the voices on the ediphone, the most sensitive dictaphone
up-to-date.
Some months later another defence of the Institute was given at the AGM, as reported in
LIGHT on May 2 1935..
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE
AN interesting survey of the International Institute's first year's activities was given by
Mr. Arthur Findlay, Chairman of the Council, at the annual meeting held last Wednesday
(April 23rd), at 21 Harrington Road, London. A favourable balance sheet was submitted,
with all the equipment fully written off, the number of members was announced as 333,
and Dr. Elizabeth Severn, retiring by rotation, was re-elected to the Council.
Mr. Findlay said the Institute was quite a new departure in psychic science. When it was
formed, the time was obviously ripe for a research institute adopting modern methods of
206
research. The old methods were obsolete, but scientific progress had put in their hands
new methods which they were sure would be much more satisfactory than those adopted
by earlier researchers.
The Institute, he said, was prepared to offer its accommodation and equipment to any
scientist or scientific group who may wish to conduct independent experiments. They
hoped to make the Institute a meeting ground for Scientists and Mediums.
The Council consisted of Spiritualists and non-Spiritualists; and while scientific methods
were strictly observed, the Medium was treated with the respect and consideration he or
she merits. "We look on the Medium," he said, " as a priceless asset, a delicate
instrument, which must be handled with every care and respect. Because of our having
adopted this attitude from the very beginning, Mediums have come to trust us. They
realise that nothing will happen that will in any way hurt them, either bodily or mentally,
or damage their reputation. If we do find that a Medium is not genuine, we do not
propose to publish it broadcast; all that will happen will be that the investigation with
this Medium will cease, and he or she will not be asked to return."
The centre of activity at the Institute had by now passed to Nandor Fodor.. Time was
running out for his predecessor as research officer, Professor Fraser-Harris, as LIGHT
reported on January 14 1937..
DR. D. FRASER-HARRIS
PROFESSOR DAVID FRASER-HARRIS died in a London nursing home at the beginning
of last week, and his body was cremated at Golders Green, on Wednesday (January 6th).
He was in his 70th year. During the past five or six years he had taken a keen interest in
Psychical Research, but never advanced so far as to describe himself as a Spiritualist.
Professor Fraser-Harris was a man of wide education. He was a M.D., D.Sc., M.B.C.M.,
and F.R.S.E. Born in Edinburgh in 1867, he was educated at the Universities of
Edinburgh and Glasgow and University College, London, and carried on research work
in Germany and Switzerland. As a physiologist he held University posts at Glasgow, St.
Andrews, and Birmingham, was Professor of Physiology at Nova Scotia, and represented
the University on the Medical Council of Canada from 1912 to 1923. In 1908-09 he was
President of the Scottish Microscopical Society, and was a member of the Physiological
Society and of the Biochemical Society.
Professor Fraser-Harris was a recognised authority on the nerves, on which he wrote
extensively. He was author of " Life and Science," " Morpheus, or the Future of Sleep,"
and " Sixth Sense," and he edited the Modern Health series.
After retirement from his Canadian Professorship, Professor Fraser-Harris took up
residence in Chiswick, London; and some six years ago he had his first experience as a
207
Psychical Researcher at Mr. Harry Price's Laboratory. He had many sittings with the
Medium, Rudi Schneider, and was so impressed with the scientific features of the
phenomena that he lectured on them at the L.S.A. (April 27th, 1933), and elsewhere in
London and in the Provinces. He vouched (Hibbert Journal, October, 1932) for certain of
the telekinetic phenomena and was greatly interested in the rapid breathing of the
Medium by which these phenomena were accompanied. For a time Dr. Fraser-Harris
was a member of the Council of the British College of Psychic Science; and he was
associated with the preliminary work of the International Institute for Psychical
Research. He was also associated in a consultative capacity with Sheffield Society for
Psychical Research.
We tender our respectful sympathy to Mrs. Fraser-Harris (who was keenly interested in
her husband's psychical investigation) and to their son.
Professor Fraser-Harris was perhaps typical of a number of London investigators of the
era in that he was involved in at least four London societies.
This perspective on the early months of a psychic organisation has not really answered
the obvious question – just why was it started? Some answers may be found in the
volumes of other newspapers, such as Psychic News or Two Worlds. Though LIGHT had
good contacts, it was not likely to be privy to the inner thoughts of Arthur Findlay, for
example, who had resigned the LSA presidency in a religious controversy some years
earlier, and might have wanted to set up a rival shop nearby. Then there were those not
happy with the investigation of Mrs Duncan, those dissatisfied with the BCPS after the
passing of its founder, and so on..
The traumas of the Institute, which were by no means over, (a row involving sex and
poltergeists which reached the law courts was just months away) seem to illustrate the
analysis of psychic organisations offered by George Hansen in his seminal work “ The
Trickster and the Paranormal”- that they are vulnerable to powerful forces. Additional to
those found in ordinary organisations.
LESLIE PRICE
…………………………………………………………………………………………..
208
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
BY
KATE FOX?
Between the years of July 1878 and December 1880, a new monthly journal was in
circulation entitled, ‘Spiritual Notes’, described as A monthly Epitome of the
Transactions of Spiritual and Psychological Societies’. Founded mainly through the
instrumentality of Dawson Rogers* in 1873, it was the official journal of the British
National Association of Spiritualists.
The intentions of ‘Spiritual Notes’, was to serve as an auxiliary to all agencies engaged in
disseminating knowledge of Spiritualism, it hoped it may receive the cordial support of
all sections of the movement. Mr. J.J. Morse, (James Johnson), accepting the agency for
the Midland districts.
On page 6 of the first issue of ‘Spiritual Notes’, an interesting announcement was printed
– ‘MRS. HENRY D. JENCKEN (Kate Fox), is about to publish her autobiography,
containing remarkable experiences of Spiritual phenomena from the commencement of
the movement of modern Spiritualism, thirty years ago, to the present time’. (At this time,
Kate Jencken would have been living in England).
Kate’s sisters both publishing their own respective titles; the elder Fox sister, Anne Leah
Underhill publishing ‘ The Missing Link’ in 1885, and Margaret Fox Kane, publishing ‘
The Love Life of Dr. Kane’ in 1866. It is interesting to note that Margaret’s book clearly
states the publisher as Carleton, 413, Broadway, New York and the publishing date as M
DCCC LXVI (1866). It may however be possible for this title to have been available in the
latter part of 1865 as the book was entered according to the Act of Congress in the year
1865 by Geo. W. Carleton etc. My own copy is inscribed, presumably as a Christmas
present, ‘Chas F. Southgate from? (Undecipherable name), Dec 25th
1865’?
Did therefore, Kate Fox Jencken write her autobiography for publication in 1878, or
could the notation in ‘Spiritual Notes’ be incorrect?
More information on Dawson Rogers see Psypioneer No. 1 page 1
………………………………………………………………………………………………
209
Voice, Technology and the Victorian Ear
This is the text of a paper given at the conference on Science and Culture 1780-1900 at
Birkbeck College, London, 12th September 1997. It is copyright Steven Connor 1997.
Jonathan Crary has described the `autonomization of sight' brought about during the
nineteenth century as a dissociation of sight from touch, which is itself part of a
separation and remapping of the senses. The loss of touch in particular meant `the
unloosening of the eye from the network of referentiality incarnated in tactility and its
subsequent relation to perceived space'. The isolation of vision, and its promotion as a
unifying, or meta-sense `enabled the new objects of vision (whether commodities,
photographs, or the act of perception itself) to assume a mystified and abstract identity,
sundered from any relation to the observer's position within a cognitively unified field'.
The sense of sight became separated from the body; it became the means whereby the
other senses were to be ordered and distinguished. We have become accustomed to
identifying the rise of the scientific rationality with this cognitive promotion of seeing,
and the demotion of the other senses, especially of hearing and touch. The rational
remodelling of the world in the nineteenth century can be seen in terms, not just of the
bringing of light, but also in terms of the massive production of objects for sight. To take
only one example; the efforts to modernise cities like Paris and London meant converting
the archaic urban experience composed of smells, sounds and uncomfortable concussions
- the world of miry in distinction conjured up in the opening pages of Bleak House - into
a rational structure available for actual or ideal sight. The development of gas and
subsequently electric lighting in the second half of the century would emphasise this
conversion
I want in this paper to enquire about the other side of seeing, or about what in the
sensorium was subdued by seeing, and in particular the cultural and scientific-
technological transformations of sound and hearing. My suggestion will be this: an
observational, calculative scientific culture organised around the sequestering powers of
the eye began in the last quarter of the nineteenth century to produce new forms of
technology especially communicative technology, which themselves promoted a
reconfiguring of the sensorium in terms of the ear rather than the eye. Far from merely
signifying simple resistance to or reversion from scientific rationality, cultural
experiences of hearing as newly mediated by technologies such as the telephone, the
phonograph, the loudspeaker, the microphone, and the radio anticipated the new scientific
understandings of the nature of materiality that we think of as characteristic of twentieth-
century science, understandings in which the simple powers and privileges of optical
rationality come to seem crude and limiting. Such an account runs the risk of what
Raymond Williams once called technological determinism - the view that technological
changes themselves simply form and change consciousness. My view is that, far from
merely bearing the impress of technology and the forms of scientific understanding that it
210
encoded, cultural experiences of hearing acted as a kind of laboratory for new
understandings of the nature of scientific work: they constituted a relay in which science
came to hear itself differently. Here I am in only partial agreement with Carolyn Marvin,
who suggests, in her study of the social and cultural effects of the new electrical
technologies of the late nineteenth century, that the body may itself be seen as `a
communications medium, that is, as a mode for conveying information about electricity'.
I think that Marvin overstates the distinction between the experts and technically
informed who communicated in textual form about the new technologies, and those
`groups without recourse to special textual expertise [who] approached the electrical
unknown directly, learning with their bodies what it was, and what their relationship to it
should be'. Science attempted through the nineteenth century to put the senses to work: at
the end of the century, the senses began to perform interesting kinds of work upon the
self- understanding of science, as the newly mobile relations between sight and hearing
(along with the increasing incorporation of the other senses) form a correlative to
emerging scientific conceptions of the complexity of matter and our relations to it. The
distinction between the uninformed body and the informed expert is thus far from
absolute.
I want first of all to make some broad and no doubt unhistorical generalisations about the
differences between sight and hearing. What in hearing does the promotion of sight
attempt to subdue and sequester? Hearing has traditionally been seen as the medium of
experience, intuition, intensity, and immediacy. As such, the difference between hearing
and sight is the difference between oral and literate epochs, between unhistorical and
historical cultures. Walter Ong suggests that the difference between a visual-typographic
perspective and an oral-aural perspective is the difference between being in front of as
opposed to being in the midst of a world. `Sound situates man in the middle of actuality
and in simultaneity, whereas vision situates man in front of things and in sequentially',
writes Ong.
Seeing becomes associated with interiority - or with the defining gap between interiority
and exteriority. In allowing, even requiring the reflective distancing of human beings
from the world they inhabit, seeing, so to speak, scoops out from the plenitude of shared
social existence out in the open, that imaginary concavity which will come to be occupied
by the subject. Subsequently, hearing will come to be associated with everything that
predates and even threatens the rational, reflective subject: the oral, the infantile, the
archaic, the instinctive, the irrational.
Sound appeared to nineteenth-century physicists to be more obviously and measurably
material than light. Sound has measurable velocity, and recordable dynamic effects. The
idea that light too might be dynamic, might be on the move, would have to wait for the
more advanced technologies and theoretical speculation of the twentieth century. The
apprehension of the dynamic materiality of sound, which goes back, at least as far as
Aristotle in his De Anima, may register a physiological and cultural fact about human
beings which is simple in its nature but profound in its effects. Human beings respond to
light, but do not produce it. Human beings produce sound as well as apprehending it. If
211
the eye corresponds to the ear, in apprehending light in the same way as the ear
apprehends sound, there is no specifically visual correlative to the voice.
Vision embodies or guarantees knowability, because seeing makes available the idea of
persistence, or permanence in time. Sound always involves the sense of something
happening, here and now; but the very intensity of that here and now happening derives
from the fact that it is volatile, always passing away. To see the world, or to see it as an
object presented to sight, is to believe that it has a form; to hear the world, or to
experience it as something heard (importantly, we can no longer speak of an `object for
hearing' with the same assurance) is to encounter materiality without continuous form.
What you see is there, and then still there. What you hear is here, and then at that same
instant no longer here. (Cinema, as the art of images in movement, may be seen as an
approximation, within sight of the conditions of hearing.)
The dynamic nature of hearing allowed it to be conceived in terms of the dominant
nineteenth-century scientific paradigm of the mechanical production, exchange and
transmissibility of forces. During the mid- nineteenth century, the period that Lewis
Mumford has characterised as that of palaeotechnics, this world of relations and
transformations (actualisable as opposed to merely symbolic analogies between different
forces and states of matter) was dominated by the thermodynamic correlation of heat and
energy. Mid-nineteenth-century technologies had led to a massive augmentation of the
motor or kinetic powers of the human body - its powers of extension, movement. Thus
the machines for replicating, accelerating and multiplying the capacities of the human
hand - from the spinning jenny onwards - are matched by the development of machines
for replicating, and then accelerating the powers of movement - in the railway, in the
development of aeronautics and the internal combustion engine. Not only are such
technologies allied to the world of work, they summon up a `world of work', of striving,
resistance, production, idleness and decay. They involve the organisation and
subordination of space: the conquest of distance, weight, and inertia. They produce and
express a moralisation of matter that saw processes of conversion in terms of the
minimisation of waste or idleness and the maximisation of profitable work.
Though it had been known about at least since Faraday's demonstrations of
electromagnetic induction, it was not until the last quarter of the century that
electrodynamic convertibility - the conversion of heat into light, of sound into variable
electric current - began to have important cultural impacts. The mechanisation of sound
was part of the process of putting the senses to work, in line with the project of exploiting
the kinetic powers of the body. Telephonic and phonographic investigations begin with
the idea of reducing or translating hearing into sight. Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas
Edison were both driven to their experiments with the transmission and reproduction of
sound by experiences of deafness - Bell with the deafness of his wife and Edison with his
own deafness. Both worked with the idea of relaying sound through sight. Bell was
inspired perhaps by the example of his father who invented a highly influential system of
phonetic notation, or visible speech, (the word phonography which came to be applied to
the early arts of sound recording was originally coined by Pitman for his system of
phonetic shorthand). Bell worked for some considerable time with apparatuses, which
212
rendered sound waves in visible terms. He thought, for example, that deaf people could
learn to reproduce pitch and timbre by reproducing the voice-prints obtained by the
influence of particular sounds on flames, or the characteristic signatures produced by a
device called the phonautograph, which traced vibrations caused in a diaphragm. Both
were working, that is to say, with a telegraphic principle, in which sounds were first
translated into a visual-linguistic form, and then translated back into sound, rather than
with a photographic principle, in which sounds would inscribe themselves directly
without the mediation of the interpreting human eye.
`For some time', declared an article in The Times in 1877 celebrating the coming of the
telephone, `there has been a prophetic idea that a speech ought to be able to report itself.'
The telephone amazed and disquieted early users, because it seemed to achieved this
condition of autonomized hearing. Bell's aim, he said, was to
devise an apparatus that might help [deaf] children...a machine to hear for them, a
machine that should render visible to the eyes of the deaf the vibrations of the air that
affect us as sound...It was a failure, but the apparatus, in the process of time, became the
telephone of today. It did not enable the deaf to see speech as others hear it, but it gave
ears to the telegraph.
The autonomization of sight evoked by Jonathan Crary separated sight from the other
senses and led to the centring and consolidation of a subject. The autonomization of
hearing separated the act of hearing from the individual subject and opened on to a world
in which human sensory operations appeared to take place not merely through, but in
machines. The telephone appeared to effect a specifically ventriloquial illusion in that the
voice transmitted through the apparatus appeared to speak from it. Time and again, early
commentators on the telephone expressed their amazement that Bell had succeeded in
making the mute material world speak. Thermodynamic technology made iron move:
electrodynamic technology, as The Times put it, had succeeded `in making iron talk'.
This autonomization of speech and hearing brought about a curious revival of a very
ancient conception of the expressiveness of the material world, a sense that the world
could speak, and a vitalist sense that the life of the world consisted in its auditory powers.
But it did more than this. Telephony and phonography also seemed to demonstrate that
the world could listen to itself, without the agency of the human ear. Bell, it is well
known, employed a real, dead human ear in his experiments, and actually incorporated its
tympanum in one of his early telephones; though he noted that the ear was poorer as an
instrument than the diaphragm he constructed of boiler-plate iron, three feet across and
one inch thick. Later in his life, Edison wrote in his journal that he regarded his deafness
as a positive advantage when it came to perfecting the sound produced by the
phonograph, and that modern urban life was characterised by a kind of phonographic
hearing. The Romantic image for this autonomous hearing/speaking of the inhuman
world was the Aeolian harp. A poem written in the 1890s by John Payne presented an
interesting post- telephonic update of this image. `The Telephone Harp', which asks us to
imagine the inhuman, and literally un- earthly voices that might be rendered audible by
telephone wires that were becoming a common sight in city and country:
213
The hand of the storm-wind sweeps the harp of the telephone-wires.
One hears in the storm of sound the plaint of the unknown powers
The concert of wail that comes from other worlds than ours,
The inarticulate cry of things that till now were mute
And speak out their need through the strings of this monstrous man-made lute.
Nay, cruel it is to hear the cry of the lives unknown,
That voice their ineffable woes in a speech that is not their own,
A speech that is neither theirs nor ours, that can but wail,
Nor give us to understand a word of their mournful tale
This separation of hearing from the ears of individual subjects confirmed a kind of
cultural fantasy that was widely diffused through the nineteenth century, the fantasy of
the mobility of the senses. Early in the nineteenth century, the tendency to identify
Mesmer's `magnetic force' with electricity had already led to the enactment of forms of
imaginary electrical telephony in mesmeric experiments in the early nineteenth century. It
was widely believed among mesmerists that the sense of hearing and of sight could
migrate in an entranced subject from the head to the abdomen. There are a number of
reports in the Zoist, the journal of phreno-mesmerism published during the 1840s, of
women suffering from deafness and dumbness, who could hear perfectly well when
someone would whisper close to their stomachs. J.H. Désiré Pététin found the proof that
this phenomenon depended upon electrical action in the fact that, although subjects
would show no signs of response to questions directed to their ears, they would respond if
the mesmeriser placed the fingertips of one hand on the subject's abdomen and whispered
his remarks to the fingertips of the other hand. Frank Podmore's account of a further
elaboration of this experiments in his Modern Spiritualism of 1902 makes clear its
anticipation of the telephonic process: `the same results would follow', writes Podmore,
`if the operator stood at the remote end of a chain of persons holding each other's hands,
of whom the last only touched the patient. But if a stick of wax were placed in the circuit,
communication at once ceased.' In Podmore's account, it is the word `operator' (a word in
use from the 1840s to designate the telegraphist and transferred readily to the men and
later women who performed the same function in the new telephone switchboards) which
establishes the circuit between mesmerism, telegraphy and telephony.
Indeed, spiritualist practice provides the most striking and sustained example of this kind
of phantasmal experiment with bodily matter. It is routinely claimed that Victorian
spiritualism is the expression of a widespread dissatisfaction with the materialism of
nineteenth-century science, industry and social and political thought, an assertion of the
transcendence of spirit, as a principle of moral, religious and even political renewal, in an
214
objectified world of inert things and blindly mechanical processes. This ignores the fact
that spiritualists shared with their opponents the language of investigation, evidence,
exhibition and exposure, and the séance was seen by spiritualists themselves as a kind of
laboratory for the investigation of the spirit world, a stage on which to unveil or bring to
light hitherto concealed mysteries. Indeed, spiritualism also shared with its materialist
adversaries an impatience with supernatural explanations of its phenomena. Annie Besant
defended her surprising embrace of theosophy after a lifetime of secularism with the
claim that `the repudiation of the supernatural lies at the very threshold of Theosophy', a
sentiment with which Charles Maurice Davies concurred in 1874 in declaring that
`Spiritualism has no such word as Supernatural' and Florence Marryat echoed even more
emphatically in 1894 in asserting `There is no such thing as super-nature'.
Spiritualist practice is much more accurately thought of as a kind of phantasmal
commentary upon the work of science; a sort of cultural dreamwork, or series of
embodied reflections upon the reconfigurations of the body induced and potentiated by
new communicational technologies. One of the less often remarked ways in which the
`other world' of spiritualism became entangled with the `real world' of science and
progress was in its mirroring of the communicational technologies of the second half of
the nineteenth century. For some years after spiritualism began its career in 1848 with the
`Rochester Rappings' experienced in a house in Hydesville, New York, the principal
means of communication with the dead was the system of usually alphabetic knocks,
which had slowly to be decoded by the sitters. No more literal parallel to the digital
system of the electric telegraph could be imagined. In 1858, Charles Partridge had
already published his account of spiritualist experiences under the imprint of the
`Spiritual Telegraph Office'; and, as one might expect, the spirits soon began themselves
to communicate in morse code. When in 1871 a spirit circle in Cincinnati working with
the mediumship of a Mrs. Hollis received messages in morse, it prompted them to
incorporate a telegraphic instrument into their séances. The spirits claimed to have
invented telegraphy in advance of its invention in the human world (one wonders quite
what for), and indeed to have given unseen encouragement to its inventor and developers.
Although this encouraged hopes that `the time is not very distant when telegraphic
communication between the two worlds will be as much established as it now is between
Louisville and Cincinnati', spiritual telegraphy made considerable demands on the spirits'
powers of organisation and engineering. It was necessary, for example, to find and retrain
a deceased telegraph operator in the spirit world, whose efforts would need to be
supported, as on earth, by a `band of electricians to sustain the community spirit, while he
handles the key of the instrument'. Nor was it possible for the spirits simply to
commandeer the telegraph instrument placed in the centre of the circle; first of all, it was
necessary to materialise a `battery' to power it.
During the 1860s and 1870s, the systems of `visible speech', which enabled the direct
transformation of acoustic signals into visual form, find parallels in the automatic writing
and `direct writing' practised by mediums during this period, both of which dispensed
with the requirement for the members of the séance to decode the spirit messages. Then
in 1876 and 1877 came the near-simultaneous invention of the telephone and the
phonograph. As we will see, both of these technologies, and especially the former,
215
quickly entered the language of spiritualism: the effect was both further to `materialise'
spiritualism itself and to highlight the ghostliness of the new technological power to
separate the voice from its source, either in space, as with the telephone, or in time, as
with the gramophone. Spiritualism moved from the high-definition visibility of the full-
figure materialisations which thrilled participants in séances during the 1870s, towards
more indeterminate experiences in invocation predominated over materialisation, and the
ear over the eye. The twentieth century has been the period of what one spiritualist
memoir called `the voice triumphant'.
There is a deeper relation between the evolution of ghost phenomena and the developing
logic of technological communications. For both involved the move from somatic to
telematic processes of relay, as effects and manifestations that took place in or through
the physical person of the medium - the easiest of these to produce being the production
of the voice of the spirits by the medium's own vocal organs - were replaced by
manifestations taking place at a distance from the medium's body. The two forms of
climax were, firstly, the `full materialisation' brought about most spectacularly by
mediums like Florence Cooke, who, in the person of `Katie King', moved around the
room, conversed with sitters, sat on their knees to be tickled, and so on, and, secondly,
and less often discussed, the phenomenon of the `direct voice', which is to say, a voice
which speaks independently of the medium's vocal organs. In the direct voice, the
phenomena must be thought of as being facilitated rather than produced by the medium,
who acts as a telephonist rather than as a telegraphist, making the connection rather than
herself relaying, embodying and interpreting the signal.
{Often, in `direct voice' manifestations, the spirits would employ a trumpet (resembling a
speaking trumpet or megaphone rather than the musical instrument), or even a series of
trumpets, which might be placed in the room at a distance from the medium. The trumpet
served both to amplify the voice, and to change its position: trumpets would be moved
telekinetically through the air and round the room. The use of this property led to the
mediums who specialised in this mode of manifestation becoming known as `trumpet
mediums'. The spiritualist use of the trumpet was probably first suggested by the use of
speaking trumpets for the deaf, as well as Biblical uses of the instrument as a sign of
spiritual warning and revelation, rather than by the characteristic amplifying horn of the
phonograph and later the gramophone. But the technique of making spiritual voices
audible comes increasingly to cohere with the technological means of amplification. I
think we might interpret this use of the apparatus of reproduction and amplification in
terms of the anthropomorphism of the telephonic and phonographic apparatus that has
been suggested by Charles Grivel:}
The flourishing of the direct voice during the twentieth century has undoubtedly been
encouraged by the development of acoustic technologies - the telephone, the phonograph,
the gramophone, the microphone, the megaphone, the radio and the tape recorder. One of
the most successful and widely-known of direct voice mediums, Leslie Flint, first
manifested his power to conjure voices in the darkness of the cinema during the early
1920s; his psychic gifts were a technological supplement to the silent film, providing a
kind of soundtrack.
216
The séance occupies a central position in the Victorian exploration of the possibilities of
a world governed by the principles of sound, and a form of human embodiment governed
by hearing, and the proximity senses with which it is associated. The suffusive body of
the séance is a body characterised by the mobility of sound, in its influx into the interior
of the body, and its passage outwards again into the world. (Later, in the twentieth-
century, ectoplasmic materialisation itself would be explained by reference to a theory of
matter vibrating at different rates.) Where the optical body is an anatomy unfolded to the
eye, which allows it to be clearly differentiated from its outside and from other bodies,
the phantasmal body of the spiritualists is a transmissive or connective medium; it is
experienced in terms not of the relationship between interiority and exteriority but in
terms of passage between them. Hearing the voice from beyond, issuing from the mouth
of the medium, and, in later years, hearing the `direct voice' of the spirit, separated from
the medium's body, bring about a temporary ascendancy of acoustic over visual space.
For all of the startling visual apparitions of the séance, its tendency is to replace a visual
body with the fundamentally auditory/acoustic phenomenology of the sonorous body.
Telephones and phonographs were initially enjoyed and sometimes even dismissed as
mere tricks and gadgets. From Galileo's telescope onwards, inventions which began life
as toys and gimmicks have developed `serious' scientific or social uses. Serious purposes,
notably military, industrial and medical purposes, were quickly invented for the
telephone. It was employed in coalmines, and in hospitals; there was very considerable
interest in the medical and in the military applications of the telephone; and the powers of
the telephone to assist in the maintenance of public order quickly became apparent - the
Boston police force had already installed a telephone network by 1878. Early
representations of the telephone stressed its involvement with the worlds of commerce
and work (women, for example, are not presented as users of the telephone until
relatively late in its development, when, in the 1920s and 1930s it began to be marketed
as a leisure device; women by contrast, were addressed by the telephone, and formed part
of the circuit or exchange of voices.) The telephone came rapidly to be seen as a way of
making businesses and other kinds of serious social processes more efficient. The
telephone as a rationalising device channelled speech into calculable purposes. It
reconfigured discursive relations into the form of networks, mapped the vectors of
speech. The development of the telephone belongs to that generalised dromology, or
rationalisation of speed which has been the subject of Paul Virilio's enquiries.
Seen in this way, there is an unbroken continuity between the sciences and technological
enhancements of the senses and the cruder forms of technology characteristic of the
earlier nineteenth century; a putting of the senses to work in the same way as steam
engines derived work from the principle of thermodynamic equivalence. But alongside
these developments, the telephone and the phonograph, along with ancillary inventions
like the microphone and the loudspeaker, also represent something new. They retained
their early associations with fantasy, pleasure and secret excitement. The telephone and
the phonograph would develop as part of the commodification of information and
communications. But, in entering and transforming intimate, everyday life, technology
itself also began to play. In these inventions, science would begin its long and
uncompleted sojourn with pleasure, style and the techniques of the self. Like the camera
217
and the cinema, the telephone began to provide forms for self- imaging, and self-
transformation. It is surely no accident that the cases of divided and multiple personality
encountered and analysed by Pierre Janet and Morton Prince at the end of the nineteenth
century and beginning of the twentieth century took the forms not of the multiplication of
appearance, or presentation of visual symptoms, but the production from a single human
body of multiple centres of personality identifiable by their different voices. In these
examples, as in the paranoia of a Schreber, pathology lies close to the mainstream of
techno-cultural transformation. If the telephone plays a part in the reduction of `culture'
to rationality, the putting of the senses to work, it also installs culture and sensation at the
heart of rational structures and cognitive operations, and begins to transform them from
the inside out. The technologies of the voice and the ear inaugurate the process whereby
the subordination of culture by science was inverted; in which science became
`culturized'. At the very inauguration of that fierce antagonism of professional scientific
expertise and the realms of culture, whether in the commodified forms of the culture
industry, or the idealised forms of antiscientific avant-garde art and culture, an
antagonism that has often been said to characterise the modern world, we can see the
beginnings of that commingling of scientific ideas and cultural practices which has
become characteristic of our contemporary epoch.
Back to Ventriloquism Home Page
Back to Home Page
………………………………………………………………………………………….
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on
the web site www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian
friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free and direct by
sending an e-mail entitled “ Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “ Unsubscribe”
to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail. Psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt.
