{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9512","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n54_nov_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N54 November 1888","mylang":"de"}
No. LIV.-VOL. In. NOV_BER, 1888.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Aasocfa.tea
M~ of the Council
A Hauntetl House .. .. . . ..
Oaaee received by the Literary CommUtes
Supplement.al"Y Library Cate.lOltue
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
ALEXANDER, PROFESSOR, Rio Janeiro.
MEMBERS.
ATKINSON, MISS E. A., 44, Percy-gardens, Tynemouth.
PAGE
•• 321
.• 322
•. 322
.. 888
.• S43
DIXON, EDWARD TRAVERS, 5, Portman-street, Portman-square,
London, W.
GAUSSEN, :MRS. L. D., Broughton Hall, Lechlade, Gloucestershire.
GURNEY, HENRY G., 3, Regent-street, London, W.
HAyES, FREDERICK WILLIAM, 12, Westcroft-square, Ravenscourt Park,
London, W.
VACHER,WILLIAM H., 54, Addison Mansions, Kensington, London,S.W_
ASSOCIATES.
ADAMS, REV. J. M. GOOLD, M.A., The Vicarage, Rossdowney,
Londonderry.
BELLASIS, MAJOR G. M., Lucknow, India.
BERGEN, AXEL VON, Harewood Hil~ Darlington.
BERGEN, DR. CARL VON, 32, Karla.vagen, Stockholm.
BERRIKER, GEORGE T., Calvert, Maryland, U.S.A.
BULL,WILLIAM J., 21,Westcroit-square, Ravenscourt Park, London,W.
CZYNSKI, PROFESSOR C. L., Rue Batory 26, Cracow.
FRY, OLIVER A., M.A., 141, Portsdown-road, Maida Vale, London, W.
GURNEY, REV. F., Prestbury Vicarage, Cheltenham.
HIGGIN, F. C., Killiney Castle, Killiney, Co. Dublin.
JBBB, REV. H. GLADWYN, Firbeck Hall, Rotherham.
JONES, SIR LAWRENCE J., BART., Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
PARKER, MISS E. A., The Elms, Gosforth, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
RALBIGH, WALTER A., M.A., 27, Ladbroke-road, London, W.
SMART, J. NAISH, Sydney House, Burnham.
STuRGES, MBS.WILLIAM, 32, Charles-street, Berkeley-square, London,W.
Digitized by~oogIe
322 Jo'Urrud of Society for Psychical Research. [N09., 1888.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Conncil held at the Society's Rooms, on
September 28th, the following Members were present :-The President
(in the chair), Professor W. F. Barrett, Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs.
F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, J. Herbert Stack,
and H. Wedgwood.
Professor Alexander, of Rio Janeiro, was elected a Corresponding
Member of the Society.
Two new Members and flight new Associaies, whose names and
addresses are given on the previol1s page, were elected.
Information was received with regret of the death of Mr. Alexander
Tod and Mr. R. H. Pilcher, two Members of the Soeiety.
Some presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was passed to the donol"ll.
A vote of thanks was also passed to Mrs. Mahlon Sands for a
donation of three guineas to the funds of the Society.
Various matters of routine business were attended to.
The previous in~ntion of holding a General Meeting in November
was confirmed (Friday, the 16th, was subsequently fixed upon as the
date), and it was agreed that the Council shall meet on the same
day.
An interim Meeting of the Council was held on the 25th of October,
at which London Members only were present, for the purpose of
electing four new Members and eight new Associates, whose names and
addresses are included in the list on the previous page.
A HAUNTED HOUSE.
.BEING FURTHER NOTES ON CASE G 314 (JotlntaZ, April, 1888).
t
Readers of the Journal will remember that an account was given
in the April number of various apparitions and other occurrences
which led the inhabitants of a certain house to regard it I\S haunted.
The house in question was taken for the months of August and
September by a member of the Society, in the hope that residence
there for some weeks might lead to some light being thrown on the
subject. He stayed there himself for the greater part of that time,
and had friends at different times to stay with him.. Nothing, how-
ever, tending either to confirm or to destroy the more important part
of the previous evidence occurred. Still, a few points of interest were
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1888.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Resea1'ch. 323
noted, and these, together with some additional facts learnt from the
witnesses previously cited, form the subject of the present paper.
The following brief account of the apparitions seen was given by
the ladies of the house, Mrs. and Miss S., to Mr. Myers in May last,
and will recall to the reader the previous narrative :-
" There are certainly four separate ' ghosts,' if not more.
1. The maid-servant, seen oftenest. DreBS light mauve, quite plain in
eut; Face pale, not often well seen; full face when seen by Mrs. S.
showed some cast or other defect in left eye. Expression ordinary. Hair
sometimes down her back, sometimes done up. No cap ; parting of hair
broad and white.
2. The lady, about 35, dreBSed in silk or other soft !Jlaterial ; red shawl
or opera cloak,apparently thrown over one shoulder and twisted round neck.
Face rather pleasing. Has been very well seen, especially by Mrs. S.
(JO'I.IImaZ for April, p. 249), when a large nightlight was burning quite near
figure.
3. The man, seen frequently leaning half out of attic window, window
being open, and observer in garden. Expression not disagreeable; dark face
and whiskers, coat high round neck. Often seen in garden, especially by
Winnie Thome, aged 12, sister of Emilie, who used to see him in the garden
night after night, to her great alarm, and run downstairs in nightdress to
tell Emilie. She (Winnie) thought someone had c~me to take the fruit..
Oddly enough, Emilie never could see him at these times, though this (with
a similar instance with Mrs. S. and Winnie) is the ouly case in which one
of the ghosts was seen by one person, but invisible to others looking that
way. Once MiBS S. I18W him in garden also, when Wiunie had given the
alarm, and a neighbour was summoned and garden searched, but no one was
there. It would not be difficult for trespassers to get into garden; but the
form seen by Winnie Thome in garden was plainly not a real man, or
Emilie would have seen him too. Nor was there shadow or effect of light
to explain it. If the man in white dress seen by Miss Humble (p. 249) W&8
the same ghost, the expression as well &8 dress must have changed; and so
also if the evil face seen by Mrs. Serpell was this same man.
It is noteworthy that part of the house was once used &8 a racing stable;
and there may have been low characters about.
Figures have twice appeared on January 22nd, but we cannot connect
that date wi;h any known event.
4. A child-ghost must be added to the list, though it has not been seen.
Mrs. S. heard the gleeful clap of hands and laugh of a child, say of four years
old, so clearly just behind her that she turned sharply round, thinking for
the moment that one of her Sunday-school class must be in the room; but
there was no one. The pattering sound as of a child's bare feet was ala.
marked."
One or more of these various figures have been seen by eight
persons, namruy, Mrs. and Miss S., their servant Emilie Thorne (who
remained in the house through August and September, and appeared to
those of us who made her acqua.intance to be a sensible and trustworthy
Digitized by~6ogIe
3241 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1888.
person); Mrs. Serpell, a former servant of Mrs. S.'s; Mrs. Trays and
Winnie Thorne, sisters of Emilie; Miss Blencowe and Miss Humble,
friends of Mrs. and Miss S. All the apparitions have occurred within a.
period of three years.
The following rough plans, which we owe to Colonel Taylor, will
ma.ke the various accounts a little clearer :-
FIBST FLOOR.
Bedroom
I--_!-r-,~_..,!.I .La 1----,-----,.-1, 1-1 1---...,
L.......j i'IF ' Ba~h "IIIIDo'll'D
==I=I-~I --····cuitaiil··· Room 1- ~
- D~:g f,; j Blue Green [] Pink Bedroom
L ~ - Room Room
Or&tory I I
II---l:""'-_-!..__-l--II J.-.J-I 1-1-"--II
GBOtJKD FLOOR.
'I-
Plmtry
I Curtain
- I I 'I. .J' 1-1 I -
The house, which is marked A on the genera.l plan, stands alone in
its own garden. It was formerly a farmhouse, and when Mrs. S. first
7ed, ~O qk
Nov.,ll!l!8.] Jowrnal Of Society f01' Psychical Resea1'ch. 325
took possession of it in 1884 did not include the part beyond the Green
Room. This part was then a cottage, but was thrown into the house
in 1885, when other alterations were also made. These alterations,
apparently, made no difference to the "ghost." Before they were
made the entrance was opposite the foot of the staircase, and the
present hall was the kitchen, the large chimney of which now forms a
useless block up the middle of the house. Mrs. and Miss S. think that
.. disturbances seem usually near this chimney, or in the rooms above
the cellar, which is a very large one, paved with stone," under the
dining room. The attic, mentioned above, is over the drawing-room and
looks towards the main street of the village. The attic window is very
dearly seen from the garden. The rooms are rather small and low,
and the staircase, so often mentioned, is a short, steep flight. The
figures have thus been seen very close.
The house appears to have had no previous reputation of being
haunted, and the sound of footsteps in an empty room, about six
months after Mrs. and Miss S. came into the house, was the first thing
that struck them as peculiar. This was in January, 1885. The appari-
tions began later. It is difficult to make out the chronology, as the
dates have not in all cases been recorded, but I think that the figure
with red jacket and candle, which M.iss S. took for her mother, was
probably the first thing seen, and either Mrs. Serpell's evil-looking face,
(lr the appearance of the maid-sen-ant's figure at the top of the stairs
(point marked F in first-floor plan) to Miss S., the second. By far the
most interesting apparition was the next, when Miss Blencowe, not
Jw,ving heard anything about the supposed ghost, saw a similar figure, as
.(If a maid·servant, in the same place, on October 1st, 1886. Miss.
Blencowe very kindly described her experience to Mr. Myers in May,
and subsequently to Mr. Sidgwick and myself in September. She
allowed us to question her as much as we liked, and gave her evidence
well. She is thoroughly convinced that at the time of this experience
she knew nothing about the haunting. Miss S., however (see p. 245),
thinks that she had said something about "the ghost" just before
Miss Blencowe saw the figure, though without any particulars what-
ever. This seems to have been the only one of the apparitions which
was similar to what had previously been seen, and was perceived by a
person who had heard no account of it ;-except, possibly, the figure
to be presently mentioned, seen by Miss E. S.; but of this we have no
details.
When Miss Blencowe, in the following February, again saw the
figure at the same spot, but from· the opposite side, it was believed
that a pet dog saw it, too. Mrs. and Miss S. say :-
" Our two existing dogs, and a dog now dead (all that we have had in
Digitized by Go
..
326 JouTnal of Society lor Psychical Research. [Nov., 1888.
the house). have fully shared, as it would seem, in the sight of the ghosts.
We do not keep a cat now. One of the dogs will not cross the Green
Room at dusk; whines at the open door, and has to be carried through.
Repeatedly the dogs have stared and shivered when we could see nothing.
In the case described (p. 245, February 19th, 1887), when servant's ghost
appeared during a party,the dog's shriek attracted everyone's attention. All
looked at the dog and probably thus missed seeing the ghost, whom Miss
Blencowe alone saw-she being then clvse to the open door outside which
the ghost appeared...
It seems ':loubtful, however, whether the evidence is sufficient to
support this explanation of the dog's behaviour. We learn from
Emilie Thorne that he suffered from fits after this, if not before, and
Mrs. S. treated him for a fit on this occasion; it does not seem
necessary to suppose a supernormal origin for this fit.
It also seems doubtful whether the other persons presen:t failed
to see the appearance on this occasion, because they did not
look in the right direction, or because it existed only for Miss
Blencowe. We understood from her that she believed the latter, and
thought that in following the dog Mrs. S. and her friend must have
passed over the spot apparently occupied by the apparition. And
certainly from the description of its position I should have judged this
to be the case.
The following is an account of Miss Blencowe's experiences, written
by Mr. Myers after his interview with her, and which entirely agrees
with my recollection of what she said, except that I should have said
near a gas lamp instead of "directly under" :-
" Miss Blencowe, when she saw the girl (October 1st, 1886, and February
18th, 1887), observed nothing wrong with her eyes [as Mrs. S. did when'
she saw a similar figure in December, 1887]. Noticed very white parting.
but does not think hair was thin; it came down low on forehead. Expres-
sion was simply that of a servant waiting for orders. On each occasion
the girl stood within a few feet of her. The peculiar cold numbneBB which
Miss B. felt was not due to fear; because (1) on the first occasion she simply
supposed the girl to be another servant whom she had not" seen, not being
then intimate with the S.'s; and (2) on the second occasion the numbness
distinctly preceded the sight of the figure; in fact, it was the odd feeling of
numbness which made Miss B. look round. She' went down' to Mrs. S.
(p. 2(6) because Mrs. S. had followed the dog downstaits and was pouring
water on him, supposing him to have had a fit. The figure on each occasion
disappeared as though into a comer, the head being last seen. On each
occasion itstood directly under a gas·lamp, in the same place."
The frequency of the apparitions seems to have culminated in
December, 1887,in which month Emilie Thorne twice, and Mrs. S.
once, saw a figure resembling the "servant-ghost," and in which
month also Mrs. S. saw the figure in the red shawl.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1888.] JO'Urru:U of Society for Psychical Reseq,rch. 327
The latest appearance recorded was a very singular form of halluci-
nation. It occurred on June 13th, 1888, and was described as follows
by Miss S. a few days afterwards :-
" 1 was coming up stairs about 10 o'clock at night. There was no gas
lighted either up or down stairs, but the window blind in the passage was
not down. 1 had no light in my hand but was carrying little Stumpy. He
trembled when 1 picked him up and continued to tremble. When I was
about four steps from the top 1 saw a shadowy substance. 1 can scarcely
describe it. It was about four feet high, in shape like a large toadstool,
the lower part was dark and the top was quite white. 1 walked on through
it and went into my bedroom. After a' few minutes 1 came out again and
went slowly up and down the staire two or three times (of course without a
candle), to see if it were possible it was a shadow, or reflection of any kind,
but there was nothing to be seen.-F.S."
The following additional information about sounds and other
phenomena was supplied to Mr. Myers by Mrs. and Miss S., who signed
the account written down by him from notes cf their conversation.
To the witnesses cited in JO'IIIr'/wJ. three more may be added, viz. :-
1. Miss E. S. (a cousin), who complained much of the banging of doors
in Pink Room, between Grey and Pink Room a.ll night, as she slept
in Grey [1 Green] Room. Begged that doors might be more carefully
shut. Mrs. S. shut them carefully (had done so previous night also), but Miss
E. S. stillheard them bang. These doors (I tried them and found them to shut
with ordinary firmness.-F. W. H. M.)do actua.lly open and close again, mOTe-
ment of handle being plainly observable. Miss E. S. was also frightened by
noisesonce when Emilie Thorne was at church, with the rest of the household;
remarked to Miss S. that she had heard noises,but then saw someone whom she
supposed to be Emilie come back from church. Emilie was in church, so the
figure seen was probaBly the servant-ghost. Nothing was said to Miss E. S.
as she is to come again at Christmas and would have been alarmed.
2. Miss E. Maud Grepe [seen byF. W. H. M.] writes:
"I heard my name [Maud] called twice distinctly. and 1 answored
Coming! and on going into the room where the voice came from I found no
one had called. The voice BOunded like that of Miss S.
.. (Signed) E. MAUD GRBPB."
3. The German cook, mentioned p. 248, repeatedly heard herself called.
She could speak little English; and fancied that some one was playing
tricks on her.
The hypothesis of tricks is practically out of the question. The phe-
nomena have occurred under all conditions: e.g. (a) When we first came,
with servant brought from Plymouth, before Emilie came to us; (b) when
Emilie was out; (c) when no one at a.ll was in the house (tace seen from
garden); (d) when Miss S. was alone in the house, &c.
The piano-playing has hardly been sufficiently noticed in JO'I.IIf"n(J},.
Miss Humble heard it play chants (p. 249). Miss Auchmuty heard chants, and
Emilie"Thome has heard it repeatedly when the drawing-room was empty-
Digitized by Google
328 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nev., 1888.
and once at lea.st when the piano W8.8 shut doom. No barrel organa come
near the house, and church is too far for organ to be taken for piano. The
rooms are small, and the sound unmistakable.*
With this may perhaps be ranked the bell-ringing; but on some Occa.siODB
at least when the bell is heard the bell actually moves. Once Mrs. and Mila
S. heard two orthree bells sounding together, and Emilie saw them shakitl(.
For this phenomenon a plausible natural explanation might be suggested,
as there are mice in the house.
Movements of objects certainly occur.
(a) Besides the case of re-lighted gas (p. 247) there was a remarkable CBBe
of re-made and re-lighted fire. We had had a party in the drawing-room
(where a fire is seldom lighted), and the fire had burnt itself out-nothing
remaining in grate when we went to bed, about 10, except a mere handful of
ashes, with slight glow. At eight next morning Emilie told me that there
was a bright fire in drawing-room. I went and looked ; a large log W&8 in
the grate and burning brightly ; I think coala also. There had been wood
in the room.
(b) On one occa.sion, on going into the drawing-room in the mcrning.
Miss S., who went in first, found a chair standing upon the sofa. Emilie
had not been into the room.
(c) The alarum of Mi88 S.'s alarum clock has five or six times gone off at
4.30 a.m., not having been set to that hour. This may be due tD BOrne
defect in the clock (though we can find none); but it is noteworthy thatabout
4.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. are th.e times when most disturb8.nce occurs.
(d) The removal and replacement of small articles continues.
The book mentioned (p.1252), as having been found after its unexplained
1088, has now been again removed.
Last Christmas Emilie brought up three florins (change on a bill) :0 Mrs.
S.'s room, and placed them in a china cup on the dreBBing-table. An hour
or so afterwards she re-entered the room, where Mrs. S. wa.s still in bed, and
Mrs. S. asked her for the coins. They were gone. A florin was taken from
the Pink Room a few weeks since, no one having been in the room except the
Vicar. These coins are always replaced aooner or later. Only florins are
taken. Aa this might sound like a servant's practical joke, it is well to say
emphatically thbt Emilie Thome is no mere temporary servant, but a young
woman of high character and perfect trustworthine88, whom we have known
from her childhood,and who came to us from the South of England expreBSly
to serve us. The manifestations are in no way speciallY'connected with her
presence, and she derives nothing but annoyance from thew. Neither ahe
nor any of us arc timid; and we have no idea of leaving the house to the
ghosts.
(Signed) F.S. M.S.
Mr. Myers himself writes as follows :-
May 21st, 1888. I have to-day seen .&fiBS Blencowe and Mrs. and Miu
Auchmuty, and have learnt a few fresh particulars, a.s follows:-
MiBS Auchmuty again stayed in the house in April, 1888. Early in the
morning of April 27th, 1888, she heard footsteps passing her room and some
* See remarks on this further on.
Digitized by Google
Nov.,I888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 329
one bruslung against handle of door outside. On inquiry the same morning
she found that no one had been up at that hour.
Mrs. Auchmuty, on April 18th, 1888, was sitting in the drawing-
room with a friend, when bot.h of them heard some one walking with
heavy boots on in the attic above. They took for granted that some one
had been there looking for some objeot. No one had been there.
Miss B. corroborates the 1088 of the ring (p. 251). It was simply placed
on the dressing-table, full in view, and left undist11l"bed. A few minutes
later it was gone.
On Wednesday, April 25th, 1888. Miss Blencowe was awoke by feeling
her bed shaken and pulled along the tloor for several inches. It was then
quickly shoved back. The room was light, but no one could be seen.
Mrs. S. (seen by me to-day) was kept awake when trying to sleep
yesterday afternoon, May 20th. by persistent pacing up and down in passage
oulsside her room. No one in the house was stirring.
May 22. I have to-day seen Mrs. and Mias Humble, at 12.Clarence-aquare,
Cheltenham. Mrs. Humble confirms the statement (p. 249) that. she heard
footsteps in drawing-room when stair was barred by boxes and no one in
that room.
Miss Humble states that the female figure which she saw had no red in
its costume ; seemed in deshabille. It was seen near the place (in the Pink
bedroom) where Mrs. S. saw the woman's figure. The man whom Miss
Humble saw had a pallid face, dark eyes, no beard or moustache. [It
seems doubtful whether this was the same male figure as that seen by
Emilie Thorne, &c.] r!'he piano was Mutwhen Mias Humble walked into the
room and found no one there, though piano had been playing.
F. W.H.M.
It was, of course, important to ascertain whether the witnesaea in this
case were at all subject to hallucinations of the senses. Mr. Gurney made
inquiries on this point but the answers did not all reach him till after the
issue of the April number. He put them together as follows ;-
Mias Humble (writing on April 8th) says that she has on one
other occasion seen a figure which appeared suddenly in a spot out of
doors, which she believed she had ascertained to be vacant the instant
before; and this figure corresponded in aspect with an appearance which
others professed to have encountered at or near the same spot. It cannot
be regarded as certain that this was a subjective hallucination; as, on the
supposition that it had no reality of what we may call a " psychical" kind,
we still cannot be sure that it was not a real living person.
Miss Blencowe writes on April 15th, 1888 ;-" I have never before the
time stated in my written account, encountered any similar phenomenon,
lights or sounds, in any other locality than at Mrs. S.'s house; in fact, until
the iirst appearance of the girl in lavender, I never believed in ghosts, nor
did I at the time know the house was haunted."
Mrs. Serpell writes on April 4th, that several years ago she twice saw
the figure of a man at the end of a passage, without being able to account
for the appearance; but she adds. "I did not think much of it at the timt7,
as I thought some one had been playing me a trick. I have never seen or
Digitized by Google
330 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1888.
heard anything else of the kind [i.e., of the same kind as the experiences in
the present case] anywhere."
Miss S., who put the necessary question about hallucinations to others of
the witnesaeB, writes, on March 28th :-" Emilie [Thorne] has never in her
life heard or seen anything supernatural.* Miss Helen Auchmuty has never
seen anything supernatural. Mary Trays never had seen or heard anything
supernatuml, and made fun of Emilie till she lived in our house."
Miss S. herself has had one hallucination of vision unconnected with the
presellt case, representing a figure with a light. E.G.
To this Mr. Myers adds that he learnt from Mrs. S. that she had
had no previous hallucinations.
Our own observations during a week spent in the house early in
September perhaps suggest explanations of some of the mysterious
noises.
In the first place I should describe the house as both a noisy and a
ricketty one, by which I mean that sounds and movements are easily
transmitted from one part to another. For instance, a servant walking
about in the attic is not only very audible indeed in the drawing-room
below, but shakes the room considerably, making the door and windows
rattle. Moreover, the presence of a parrot and other birds in the
house should be taken account of in trying to explain noises.
Secondly, we ·think that the sound of a piano heard when no one
was playing in the drawing-room may very probably have come from
a piano in a neighbouring house. We heard such a piano, seemingly
in the house marked B on the general plan, very distinctly indeed as
we sat in the drawing-room, one morning, with the window open. It
was equally distinct outside the'room. When the music was loud we
could even hear it quite well with our window shut. We were at
home the greater part of every morning during our stay, but this was
the only time we heard the piano, so that we may suppose that it is
not often played under similar conditions.
Thirdly, my friend Miss F., who stayed there with me and occupied,
during part of the time, the Green Room, was lying awake one night
when she felt her bed jarred and heard something like a blow on it.
Immediately afterwards she heard a metallic sound, proceeding, she
thought, from the iron curtain rod, which divided off the end of the
room to serve as a passage (see plan). This sound was louder than
that made by tapping the rod with a door key and we could not
imitate it by shaking the curtain rings. Miss F. imitated it at break-
*This word was, of course, not used by me in the question which I put; but
the answer certainly is meant to convey the fact that the witnesses had not else-
where, or on other occasions, seen things which it seemed impossible to account for in
any ordi!lary way.-KG.
Nov•• 1888.J Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 331
fast by striking two spoons together. Miss S. seems to have had
similar experiences while sleeping in this room, though more intense.
(See Jowrnal for April, pp. 243, 249.) In Miss F.'s case they occurred
as our host came up to bed, as she knew by hearing him come upstairs
and open and shut his door; and she heard the same sound, but fainter,
on another occasion, at the moment that my husband descended the
stairs.
We found considerable difficulty in reproducing the sound; but did
ultimately succeed, by treading about over the upper steps of the
stairs and the passage at the top, in making a faint sound of the same
kind occur in the Green Room.
Miss F. also had another experience, similar to one described in the
JO'IJII"IW,l (p. 242); and it should be mentioned, by the way, that though
Miss F. ha.d read the April number of the Journal, she had no
conscious recollection of the nature of the experiences described. She
was in the bath-room on the evening of her arrival, and, at the moment
when I came up the back stairs and entered the Pink Room, thought
she heard footsteps coming along the oilcloth that extends from door
to door of the Green Room. She thought it was the maid and opened
the door to see, but no one was there. She imitated the step for us.
It was short and quick (like a child's) and sounded, she said, like that
of a person with bare feet or slipshod. We did not succeed in re-
producing this sound of pattering feet; but I think that this may have
been because it is very difficult to reproduce the conditions for what,
if connected with my coming upstairs at all, was probably a mis-
interpretation of some real sound. When Miss F. expected me to
come up the back stairs she was naturally not in the same menta.l
attitude in judging of the sounds I made as when she had to infer the
facts entirely from the sounds. We found our experiments on sounds
difficult too, because they were constantly spoilt by noises in the house
and outside.
This completes the evidence at present obtained on the subject.
If we try to review it as a whole we must admit, I think, that it is
difficult to draw from it any very definite conclusion. The evidence
about sounds, and about movements of objects may, perhaps, be left out
of consideration for the present; the first because there seems, as I
have said elsewhere (Proceedings, Vol. III., p. 79), to be no sufficient
reason for regarding unintelligent sounds as other than ordinary
physical ones merely because they have not been explained; and the
second because the phenomena as described scarcely seem sufficiently
beyond the range of possible mal-observation and forgetfulness to
warrant us in attaching great importance to them. It is difficult to
make evidence of this kind convincing to those not actually concerned
Digitized by Google
:332 JOU1"fUtl of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1888.
in the occurrence, and, in fact, to be convincing it would almost need
to be experimental. It would almost be necessary that the position of
an object should be specially noted with a view to observing its sub-
sequent disappearance. Some attempt has, I understand, been made to
obtain evidence of this kind, but the objects have not so far dis-
appeared.
Turning to the sights ;-after seeing the place I should be inclined
to suggest that the figure seen by Mrs. Trays in the garden was a real
woman waiting fer some one; and it seems possible that some of the
other figures, namely the man seen in the garden by the little girl, and,
perhaps, the man at the attic window, were illusions, that is, mis-
interpretations of real things seen. Further, I am inclined to think
that the apparition to Miss S. of her mother, and possibly some other
cases may have been dreams. But after making all allowance for such
explanations there remains a considerable number of cases of genuine
hallucinations of the senses, occurring with a frequency which is
certainly very remarkable when we consider that the percipients were
not seeing hallucinations elsewhere. And if we assume that the
majority of them may have been produced by self-suggestion, resulting
from the idea that the house was haunted-an hypothesis which their
variety somewhat supports, I think- there still remains the central
point of the whole story, namely, Miss Blencowe's seeing what was
apparently the same figure as that previously seen by Miss S. and in
the same place, though knowing nothing of it. If this were the only
instance of such an occurrence we might attribute it to chance; but it
is, as readers of the Proceedings and Journal know, by no means an
isolated case. As to the cause of the phenomenon, we know nothing.
Was it thought-transference-mental suggestion-from Miss S. that
caused Miss Blencowe to see what she did 7* Or was there some
other mind, independent of both of them, or some physical cause, which
produced it 1 We cannot tell. We can only say that there is no
known person living or dead with whom to connect the figure.
The Society will of course wa.tch any further developments of the
case with interest. But it is to be feared that it will be difficult to
obtain any future evidence from persons who have not heard of the
haunting, since the report of it seems now well known, at least in the
immediate neighbourhood; and when we were there it was a favourite
amusement with the village boys to serenade the "ghost" as the shades
of evening fell.
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK.
* It would seem probable from Miss So's account (p. 245) that she was thinking
of the figure at the time.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1888.) Jou?"1w,l Of Society fm' Psychical Research. 33~
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
We have received the following cases from Mr. A. W. Dobbie
(member of the S.P.R.), of Gawlerl-pace, Adelaide, and Rothesay
Villa, College Park, South Australia.
Mr. Dobbie has studied and practised mesmerism for about l(}
years, and has found himself to be a most successful operator. He has
mesmerised, he tells us, at least 500 persons, mainly with a view to·
alleviating suffering, and some of his patients have developed consider-
able powers of a psychical kind, as the following cases will show.
Rothesay Villa,
M. 6 College Park, South Australia.
July 4th, 1886.
Striking case of clairvoyance, which occurred May 28th, 1886, in the-
presence of the Hon. Dr. Campbell, M.L.C., Hon. David Murray, M.L.C.•
and Chief Secretary of South Australia, Mr. Lyall, and Mr. Fleming.
solicitor :-
The circumstances are briefly as follows, viz. : Dr. Campbell being present
at Qne of my usual clairvoyant evenings, handed me a gold aleeve-link, at:.
the same time telling me that he had lost the fellow one to it, but had no
idea as to what had become of it ; he asked me to give the remaining one to
one of my clairvoyantes and see if they could find the missing one. I should
state that neither of the clairvoyantes had ever seen either of the rooms they
referred to, nor did they know the names of the children, or anything in
connection with this case, so that it is either a case of genuine clairvoyance,
or else a most remarkable case of thought-reading.
I first handed the sleeve-link to the young~r of the two sisters [Misses.
Eliza and Martha Dixon], who is not so lucid as her sister (I was giving
the elder one a reet as she had been hard at work, clairvoyantly, for the
past hour).
Miss Martha began by first accurately describing Dr. Campbell's features,
then spoke of a little fair-haired boy who had a stud, or sleeve-link, in his
hand, also of a lady calling him"Neil"; then said that this little boy had taken
the link into a place like a nursery where there were some toys, especially
a large toy elephant, and that he had dropped the link into this elephant
through a hole which had been torn or knocked in the breast; also that he
had taken it out again, and gave two or three other interesting particulars,
but as we were engaged in clairvoyantly investigating a most important
matter, we were reluctantly compelled to postpone further investigation until
two or three evenings afterwards.
On the next occasion (in the interval, however, the missing sleeve-link
had been found, but left untouched), I again placed the link in her hand and
the previous particulars were at once reproduced ; but as she seemed to be
getting on very slowly, it occurred to Dr. Campbell to suggest placing his
hand on that of the clairvoyante, so I placed him en rapport and allowed him
to do so, he simply touching the back of her hand with the points of his
Digitized by Go
334 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1888.
fingers. As she still Beemed to have great difficulty (she is always
inuch slower than her sister) in proceeding, it suddenly occurred to me that
it would be an interesting experiment to place Miss Eliza Dixon en rapport
with Miss Martha, so 1 simply joined their disengaged hands, and Miss
Eliza immediately commenced as follows, viz. :-
"I'm in a house, upstairs, 1 was in a bathroom, then 1 went into another
room nearly opposite, there is a large mirror just inside the door on the left
band, there is a double-sized dressing-table with drawers down each side of
it, the aleeve-link is in the comer of the drawer nearest the door. When
they found it they left it there. 1 know why they left it there, it was be-
-cause they wanted to see if we would find it. 1 can see a nice easy chair
there, it is an old one, 1 would like it when 1 am put to sleep, because it is
nice and low. The bed has curtains, they are a sort of brownish net and
have a fringe of darker brown. The wall paper is of a light blue colour.
There is a cane lounge there and a pretty Japanese screen behind it, the
screen folds up. There is a portrait of an old gentleman over the mantel-
piece, he is dead, 1 knew him when he was alive, his name is the same as the
gentleman who acts as Governor when the GO\'ernor is absent from the
-colony,* J will tell you his name directly-it is the Rev. Mr. Way. It was a
little boy who put the sleeve-link in that drawer, he is very fair, his hair is
almost white, he if! a pretty little boy, he has blue eyes and about three
years old.
"The link had been leit on that table, the little boy was in the nursery
and he went into the bedroom after the gentleman had left. 1 can see who
the gentleman is, it is Dr. Campbell. Doesn't that little boy look a young
Turk, the link is quite a handful for his little hand, he is running about with it
very pleased; but he doesn't scem to know what to do with it. [A. Dr.
Campbell was not present from this point.] Now I can hear someone
-calling up the stairs, a lady is calling two names, Colin is one and
Neil is the other, the other boy is about five years old and is darker than
the other. The eldest, Colin, is going downstairs now, he is gone into what
looks like a. dining-room, the lady says 'Where is Neil 7' 'Upstairs, rna.' 'Go
.and tell him to come down at once.' The little fair-haired boy had put the
link down; but when he heard his brother coming up, he picked it up again.
Colin says-' Neil, you are to come down at once.' 'I won't,' says Neil.
, You're a goose,' replies Colin, and he turned and went down witho1it Neil.
What a young monkey I now he has gone into the nursery and put the link
into a large toy elephant, he put it through a hole in front which is broken.
He has gone downstairs now, 1 suppose he thinks it is safe there.
"Nowthat gentleman has come into the roomagain and he wants that link ;
he is looking all about for it, he thinks it might be knocked down: the lady
is there now too, and they are both looking for it. The lady says-'Are you
sure you put it there 7' The gentleman S&ys, ' Yes.'
"Now it seems like next day, the servant is turning the carpet up and
looking all about for it; but can't find it.
"The gentleman is asking that young Turk if he has seen it, he knows
* Chief Justice Way is thll,gentleman who acts as Deputy for his Excellency when
:absent from the colony.-A. W. D.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1888.] JOU1'nal of Society for Psychical Research. 33b
that he is fond of pretty things. The little boy says, •No.' He seems to
think it is fine fun to serve his father like that.
.. Now it seems to be another day and the little boy is in the nurseryagain.
he has taken the link out of the elephant, now he has dropped it into that
drawer, that is all I have to tell you about it, I told you the rest before."
July 15th, 1886.
Since writing the above 21 pages I have handed them to Dr Campbell for
perusal so that he might check the account and ratify it or otherwise, and after
going carefully through it he has returned it to me, acConipanied bya complete
ratification in writing, which I herewith enclose.
A. W. DOBBIE.
Memo. by Dr. C-ampbe~l.
Adelaide, July 9th, 1886.
At the pomt A the seance was discontinued till ,the next sitting, when 1
was absent. The conversation reported as passing between the children is
~orrect. The description of the room is accurate in every point. The
portrait is that of the late Rev. James Way. The description of the children
and their names are true. 'rhe fact that the link was discovered in the drawer,
in the interval between one sittmg and the final one, and that the link was
left there, pending the discovery of it by the clairvoyante, is also correct, as
this was my suggestion to Mrs. Campbell when she showed it to me in the
comer of tho drawer. In fact, every circmmstance reported is absolutely
-correct. I know, further, that neither ot the clairvoyantes have over been
inside of my door. My children are utterly unknown to them, either in
appearance or by name. I may say also that they had no knowledge of my
intention to place the link in their posse8Bion, or even of my presence at the
seance, as they were both on each occasion in the mesmeric sleep when I
arrived.-ALLAN CAMPBELL.
In a later letter, written December 16th, 1887, Dr. Campbell
writes :-
"DEAR MR. DOBBIE,-Your London correspondent asks if I had any
knowledge ofthe conversation that the clairvoyante stated had passed between
the children. I had no knowledge whatever of this conversation, nor the
circumstances attending it, until she repeated it. It was subsequently con-
firmed to me in part by Mrs. Campbell, such part as she herself is reported
to have taken in the tableau.
" With respect to the large toy elephant. I oertainly knew of its existence,
but was not thinking of,it at the time the olairvoyante was speaking. I did
not know even by suspicion that the elephant was so mutilated as to have a
large opening in its chest, and on coming home had to examine the toy to
see whether the statement was correct. I need hardly say that it was
absolutely correct.-I am, yours sincerely,
"ALLAN CAMPBELL."
In answer to inquiries as to whether Mr. Dobbie could send us a
~opy of notes taken at the time of this experiment, he wrote on October
17th, 1886 :-
Digitized by Google
336 JO'Il/I'nal oj Society JOT Psychical Resea'l'ch. [Nov., 1888_
" Although since April, 1882, I have carefully taken notes of nearly all
my clairvoyant experiments (pencilling the words down the moment they
are uttered), in the trinket [sleeve-link] case I considered that it would be
80 very improbable that my clairvoyante would be able to do anything with
80 little clue, that I did not think it worth while writin" a single note, in
fact, I should not have wasted time over the experiment but for fear of being
thought disobliging. However, the result of that experiment has made me
more careful to record almost everything I attempt in that way."
Mr. Dobbie tells us that "neither he nor his clairvoyantes had any
opportunity, directly or indirectly, of knowing any of the particulars
brought out by the clairvoyante." He afterwards saw the room described,
and says" the description is simply perfect in every particular."
M. 7.
The next case is of " somewhat different type. Mr. Dobbie, writing
on October 17th, 1886, says of it:-
•• A few weeks ago a case occurred which I think I ought to send you, as
it was tried as a test case. I am copying the notes, which I carefully took at
the time the words were uttered, and shall send them to several of the com-
pany who were present, and ask them to ratify them if they are correct. I
will then enclose it in this letter."
He calls it "an apparently gElnuine case of Psychometry, or could
it be Thought-transference 7"
This evening (September 27th, 1886) Mr. A. Adamson, J.P., of College
Park, handed to me what I thought was a very small chip of marble of dull
white colour, and requested me to place it in the hand of Mr. Williams, my
clairvoyant (who had already been asleep for some time) ; at the same time
he placed a sealed envelope on the table, which he informed t.he company
(consisting of about 25 ladies and gentlemen) contained 8. brief account as to
the history of the specimen, and that no person in the room had the remotest
idea as to the nature of the specimen ; but that the envelope could b9 opened
after the clairvoyant bad finished all he had to say about it. Mr. Adamson
added that he wished this mode of procedure carried out as he desired to test
the powers of the clairvoyant.
On placing the specimen (which was not larger than a grain of wheat) in
the hand of the clairvoyant, he proceeded to make a few remarks of 8.
geological nature, which had indirect reference to the snbject, and then pro-
ceeded as follows :-
.. Now, I've gone back to where and when it was in the ground. Tbis ia
a very nice country, a foreign place; it is like a town; there seems to be 8.
lot of things about this place; there seems to be people of different countries
come here, all foreigners. There is a very large circle or area enclosed here,
composed of lh'UJ kind of stone, but oot aU 80 pure. The area has been dug
out first. There are pillars about it; this has been a big place, a kind of
show place, foreign; there are lots of ruins, a lot has been carried away_
There are 8. lot of places like caves here where they put animals and anybody
into. I wouldn't care to be one of them. The men and women are put in
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1888.] Jowrnal Of Society for Psychical Research. 337
there alive; but they never come out again except to go into the middle of
the area, and then they ar& done for. They didn't go in there because they
liked it, it was for the amusement of others. Some of these people in these
cage places look nearly mad with terror, others of them don't Beem to care
much. ThAy are just waiting to be ordered out when the people come.
The people are up all round here" (here the clairvoyant waved his hand in a
circle above him, giving us the impression of extensive galleries where the
onlookers sat). "The people in the cage places are hungry and thirsty. There
is going to be a big show here now. There are other cages or cave-like
places on the opposite side of the'area with wild animals in them. Can't
you hear them roaring 1 They are being lashed up to make them wild, but
they are wild enough without that. They do that to make more fun for the
people. I would like to put those people there. I wonder how they would
feel if they changed places with those in the caves. The poor people in the
caves know now that it is nearly allover with them. The people are sitting
high up all round. Now the doors of the cages are opened and the poor
people are ordered out, and a great big fellow is following the poor stdrved-
looking creatures, and lashing them towards the cages of the animals until
they are in front of them. Now the animals are quiet and are backing to
the backs of their dens. The men are going to try and fight the animals, but
the poor women are very much cut up about it. Now that big fellow has
gone .out ; why doesn't the coward take his chance with the rest 7 There
are four men and four women ; the men are telling the women to keep
behind them. They can't get back to their cages because the doors are shut,
but theyar e backing away from the animals' cages.
" 0 ! now the people at the top have pulled up the doors of the animals'
cages ; the people seem to like this, and can see the eyes of the animals in
the dark cages. They don't feed the animals much. Oh, what a nasty
howl. They put their mouths near the ground and give a kind of blood
curdler. Don't those men look brave, but the poor women are nearly dead
with fright. Now the foul' lions, they look just like greatcats with their tails
moving about. Now they are crouching down getting ready to spring; the
four men are standing side by side, and the four women behind. The men
have no weapons and little clothes, simply a loose kind of blouse. They are
fine-looking men; they appear to be getting ready to spring also, but it's no
use ; one of them sprang at the same instant as the lion, and nearly knocked
his hand through the lion's throat, but the lion struck him a blow on the
forehead with his paw and killed him. Now the lions have killed them all
and are playing with the bodies."
As it was long past our usual time for closing our experiments we were
reluctantly compelled to postpone further investij[ations on that occasion. Mr.
Adamson now informed the company that the specimen in the hand of the
elairvoyant was a small portion of a mass of conglomerated or petrified bones,
said to be the bones of the Christian martyrs who were slaughtered by wild
beasts, &c., at the Coliseum at Rome. He with his daughter visited
the celebrated Church of San Paolo Fuori Le Mura in Rome, during his
trip to the Continent several years ago, andan old priest being in charge of the
place showed them round, and amongst many other very ancient and interest-
~ D
Digitized by Google
338 Journal of Society fOT Psychical Researoh. [Nov., 1888.
ing relics they were shown a large maBB of conglomerated bones, which the
priest informed him were the remains of some of the Christian martyrs. Mr.
Adamson bribed the priest to break offa small portion, which he brought a.way
with him, and the specimen in the hand of the clairvoyant was a small chip
from it, so that the aCC'lunt given by the clairvoyant was wonderfully
correct.
The following is a verbatim copy of the contents of the sealed envelope
which Mr. Adamson placed on the table at the same instant as the clair-
voyant began his description. .
"Saint Paolo Fuori Le Mura, founded by Theodosius and Valen-
tinian the 2nd, 388. Rebuilt several times-last time 1840 to 1875
-points towards the Tiber. We visited this church on a Sunday. It is
the newest and grandest of the Roman churches, preferred by many to St.
Peter's-in the old cloisters behind, we saw many curios, among others a con-
glomerate of bones from the catacombs, said to be the remains of the Christian
martyrs-an old priest who was present on being led towards this and shown
a lira and a piece of brickbat, broke me off a piece of which this is a
small portion. -A. A."
To Mr. A. W. Dobbie.
DEAR Sm,- In accordance with your request I have read this account of
a s~nce held in your house, and can certify to the correctneBS of your report
in all particulars.
I would, however, like the following two alterations made, which I have
taken the liberty of underlining in your manuscript.
On page 1, "This kind of stone," &c., was an answer to a leading
question which should not have been put.
And in my note in last page omit .. from the catacombs," as I am not
certain this statement was made to me.
Your clairvoyant was very much excited during the scene in the Coliseum,
his nerves working strongly.
I may state that there were some doubts in my mind when I obtained the
relic; these, however, are now removed. I also know that since the ~nce
of which you write, another has beeR held with a portion of the same object,
bringing out a still more graphic account, and agreeing thoroughly with the
foregoing.-Yours respectfully,
ADAM ADAMSON.
College Park,
October 29th, 1886.
We, the undersigned, having been present on the above occasion, hereby
certify that the account as given above is a correct record of what took place.
STANFORD CHAPMAN, of firm Virgoe. Son, and Chapman, of 8, Leadenhall-
street, London; and Melbourne and Sydney, Australia.
W. J. M. WOOLLBY, of firm Doswell, Woolley and Co., Eagle Chambers,
Pine·street, Adelaide.
W. H. HALL, Head Teacher Glen Osmond Public School, South Australia.
H. SPAFFORD, Currie-street Foundry, Adelaide, South Australia.
L. M. MANN.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1888.] JO'I.II1'1lal of Society fM Psychical &search. 339
Mr. Dobbie continues his letter :-
" Since writing the above Mr. Adamson and several of the others have
signed the account. (None of them hesitated in the least after they had
read it, and I do not allow them to sign until they have read it.) You will
notice that Mr. Adamson has made a reference to the note re the catacombs.
He is quite right, the question referred to should not have been put, and
even if the reply had been specially correct it would not have had the
same amount of scientific value that the other part has, because all the rest
wa! perfectly voluntary. I have always found it safer not to break the
thread of their account by interjecting questions; it is best to ask the ques-
tions after they have finished, and they readily clear up what had
previously appeared foggy. I ought to rcmind you of what I told you in my
former letter, that Mr. Adamson is a J.P., and is held in high repute in
Adelaide on account of his remarkable sagacity. He was a thorough sceptic
on the subject of clairvoyance until he saw my experimenta, and as I allow
him free access to all my seancea, he has a good opportunity of forming an
opinion."
This second case seems to be more easily explained by Thought..
transference than the first. For, if we suppose the clairvoyant to have
got from Mr. Adamson's mind the ideas of Rome and Christian martyrs,
there may have been material in his own mind for the development of
these ideas into the scene in the Coliseum.
Mr. Dobbie does not have uniform success with his clairvoyants.
"The part which puzzles me most," he remarks, "is the fact that very
often they are entirely wrong, even when I am fully aware of the
nature or history of the specimen I place in their hands, also when the
visitors know. If it is Thought-transference, why should they often
go wrong when either I or others present know the nature of the
specimen 1"
In answer to this we would suggest that nothing we yet know of
Thought-transference would lead us to expect constant success with
even the best subjects.
M. 666.
It will be interesting to compare with the foregoing a somewhat
similar case where, however, there was no hypnotiser. The gentleman
who sends it is an associate of the Society.
.AugtMt 19th, 1888.
In order that you may better understand the narrativ~, I should explain
that I have lived in England for the last 24 years. My wife is English, and
at the time of my visit to America we had two children-a girl and a boy-
and had loat one, a little girl who had died at the age of two months.
In the autumnof 1879, I visited the United Statea. Our object in going out
to America was to inapect BOme iron and coal mines in the State of Tenneasee,
Digitized b~gIe
340 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1888.
but before going South we did some " sight-seeing," and on our way to the
Falls of Niagam we stopped for a few days in Boston. 1 had heard and
read a little about Spiritists and manifestations, but never seen anything of
the kind, and as Boston is a sort of hotbed for mediums and .. humbug" of
every kind, 1 took tl.e opportunity, while there, to see some of the mediums,
one of whom was a Mrs. White, who called herself a trance medium. This
Mrs. White was a young woman of prepossessing appearance and ladylike
manners. She lived in a nice part of Boston (I cannot recollect the address),
had a fine house, and was evidently one of the fashionable mediums, and much
sought a.fter, and 1 had some difficulty in getting an interview with her. J
came to her as a perfect stranger, did not give her my name, nor any clue as
to where 1 came from, and what took place was as follows :-
We sat down opposite each other, with a small table between us, and she
took hold of b'Jth my hands. After a few minutes she went into a trance (or
what she pretended to be a trance), and began a rambling speech about spirit-
land and the future state; and after a somewhat long discourse, which
appeared to me very nonsensical, she told me· that 1 might ask her any ques-
tions 1 liked, and she would try to answer them. This was just what I
wanted, and 1 was ready with my questions to test her.
First then, 1 asked: ,. Tell me if 1am married or single." •• Married," was
the answer.
•• Well then," I said, ••tell me the name of my wife, and describeher to me."
Without much hesitation she gave me both my wife's names-Ada Maria-
and a most minute and wonderfully correct description of her appearance.
age, manners, temperament, &c. She then told me the names of my
children, and gave me a minute description of what they were like-all per-
fectly correct. "Elsie, the eldest. one, she said, is a fair girl, rather like
her father, and the little boy, Carl, has large brown eyes like his mother,
He is a clever little boy, but not very strong, and you must be careful with
him. You also call hir& Carley --at least his mother does-and little Hilma
,that went into spirit land, she was a fine baby "-and so on.
Everything she said about the children was wonderfully correct, but what
astonished me most was this. .After talking some time about my children
she suddenly said, " Who i8 Maud! It seems to me as if there was another
little girl called Maud-and yet-no! 1 am not certain aboutit." She then
put my hand to her forehead and kept repeating, "Maud," •• Maud." Then
she said, •• Was there another little girl that died, or what is it 1 1 cannot
make it out."
Now the fact was this-my wife expected to be confined in December
(this was in October), and we had agreed between ourselves that if it should be
a girl we would call her Maud. This of course was a subject that had never
been mentioned except between my wife and myself.
As it happened, little Maud was born on the 25th of December, and isnoW'
eight-and-a·half years old.
Before leaving my hotel that morning 1 got a letter from my wife, and
after reading it I put it in my pocket. I asked Mrs. White, •• Can you tell me
when I shall have a letter from my wife 1" The answer came straight: "You
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1888.] JOW1"Y/,al of Society for Psychical Research. 341
received one before going out this morning, and you have it now in your
pocket." " Well then," I said, "can you tell me what is in it 1" But that
she declined to do.
In order to test her further, I asked her to tell me what my friends were
doing at home, at that moment. She said she could see them, and hear them
talking, and she then gave me a very correct description of my friends here
in , mentioning their names and what they were like, and various
little family matters.
She said, Fanny (my sister-in-law) was just at that moment playing on
the piano in the drawing-room, and that her mother (whom she described
very correctly) came in to tell her something, &c., &c. This I was not able
to test, as when my letter arrived some 10 days afterwards my friends did
not recollect what they had been doing at that particular hour. She also
mentioned several of my friends in Sweden by name, and gave me a correct
description of them, said she could hear them talk in some foreign
language, which she did not understand, &C.
I must, however, say that although, on the whole, she was very correct in
her statements, and especially astonished me with the description she gave
of my wife and children, she made several mistakes or what I should call
" bad guesses." For example, she insisted upon it that I had an uncle called
John, which I have not, (it is, however, the name of my wife's uncle). She
said my father would very soon pass into the spirit land. He is still alive
and well, although it is nearly nine years ago. She told me I was going out
Weston very important business, whereas I was going South. She intro-
duced me to several cousins, and aunts, and friends, and relations whom I
knew nothing about, and who are not in existence.
The above is the substance of my interview with Mrs. White. The whole
thing is fresh in my memory, although it happened SODle years ago, and I
have before me a letter which I wrote to my wife the same day, and in which
I gave her a full account of this wonderful woman. I should be very glad to
have your opinion on the subject. My own impression is that it was a very
remarkable case of thought-reading.
In answer to inquiries our informant writes :-
.Augwt 21st, 1888.
'fhat Mrs. White should have, by any possible means, possessed herself of
the letter, read it and restored it to its place is quite out of question. 1st. I
carried the letter in the inside breast pocket of my coat, in a letter case with
an elastic band round it. 2nd. The interview took place at noon, in full
daylight, and she was under my close observation the whole time. She
never left the room. 3rd. Before we sat down, we stood conversing for
two or three minutes, and she was not close enough to me even to touch my
pocket, and when we sat down opposite each other with a small table between
us (about two feet square), I held both her hands the whole time. 4th. If
she had seen the letter and read it carefully through, it would not have given
her the information she Be&med to possess-not even my wife's name, as she
did not sign her name.
Digitized by Google
342 JO'U/l"nal of Society fO'1' Psychical Research. [lfov.,I888.
M. 667.
The following case, given to us by General Barlow, well-known in
the American Civii War, has a considerable analogy with the previous
ones, but a new element is introduced in that the communication comes
professedly from a departed spirit.
In the year 1884 I went to a medium in Roxbury, Boston, called Mrs.
Philbrick.She said many thingswhich I thought rubbish.I mentally summoned
a lady once known to me, not mentioning her name, as I believe, and asked
her, "Do you remember meeting anybody in a. church "1 not mentioning the
church. She answered, "Yes." "Do you remember anything that
happened 1" " Yes." "What" 1 "Ella knows."
What had happened was that this lady's skirt had come down in the
church porch, and my Bister-in-law Ella was there and saw the accident_ I
was not there, and the incident in the porch of a country church could hardly
have been known to anyone else.
The woman had no notion who I was. It was mv first visit.
The church was a little village church, far from Boston.
Brown's Hotel, Dover-street,
Jmy 25th, 1888.
FRANCIS C. BARLOW, Major-General.
The following case of an unrecognised appearance has considerable
claim to be regarded as telepathic:-
L. 8I8-Ad pn
From Mrs. Hunter, 6, Victoria-creacent, St. Heliers, Jersey.
J'IIly 31st, 1888_
A dear friend here, devoted to society and a leader in it, was taken
suddenly ill_ On January 10th, 1885, I had a good report of her, that sbe
was much better. A young man, nearly related to us, was lying 11e7"!I danger-
ously ill in London at the same time. Well, that evening a white shadowy
figure passed me, almost touching me, as if to embrace me. "That isn't
Freddy!" I said. .. Who can it be1" My poor friend had died a few
hours before.
Mrs. Hewett, Mrs. Hunter's daughter, confirms this account in
the following words :-
Jersey,
.August 8th, 1888.
I remember distinctly my mother coming out of her room on the even-
ing of January 10th, 1885, and saying, .. Someone has been in my room
and it is not Freddy;" Freddy being my stepSOD, then lying dangeroUBly
ill in London. I understoed her to mean someone not of this world, aa
she was in the haDit of seeing appearances, &c. Next day we learned
that a dear friend of hers and mine had died about two hours before
my mother said this.
We have received the decedent's name and have vp,rified thedate
of death in a Jersey paper.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1888.] Jo'U'f"rUil of Society f01' P8ychical Resea'l'ch. 343
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The following additions halle been made since the Za8t list:-
*ALIENIsr and Neurologist (17 Nos.) ..................Bt. l.ouis, U.B..A. 1884-8
*BAIN (Professor Alexander, LL.D.)Mental and Moral Science
(2nd edition) ......................................................... Londori., 1868
*-- The Senses and the Intellect ................................. London, 1868
*-- The Emotions and the Will ................................. LOfldon, 1880
*BRAID (.Tames, M.R.C.S., &c.) Neurypnology; or, the Rationale of
Nervous Sleep ...................................................... London, 1843
*C. C. M. The Metaphysical Basis of Esoteric Buddhism ... N.D.
*CONFESSIONS of a Medium ............................................. London, 1882
*CULLIS (Charles, M.D.) Faith Cures .............................. BOIltoo, N.D.
*--·More Faith Cures ................................................ BOIltoo, N.D.
*GREGORY (Wm., M.D., F.R.S.E.) Animal Magnetism; or, Mesmer-
ism and ita Phenomena. (2nd edition) ........................ London, 1877
*IIA.DDOCK (Joseph W., M.D.) Somnolism and Psycheism. (2nd
edition) ................................................................. London, 185]
*HODGSON (Shadworth H.) The Unseen World. An Address
delivered before the Aristotelian Society ..................... London, 1887
HOME (Mme. Dunglaa) D. D. Home: HisLifeandMisaion London,l888
*JAC~ON (Hughlinga, M.D., F.R.S.) Remarks on Evolution and
Dissolution of the Nervous System.............................. London, 1887
*JAMES (Prof. William) Reaction-time in the Hypnotic Trance. Re-
printed from No. III. of the Proceedings of the American Society
for Psychical Research ................................. Boston. U.S.A., 1887
*KARKEEK (paul Q.) Devonshire Witches ........................ 1874
*--A Budget of Witch Stories....................................... 1882
*MYERS (A.T., M.D.) The Life History of a Case of Double or Multi-
plex Personality ......................................................London, 1886
*NEwcoMB (Simon) Annual Addreaa of the President of the American
Society for Psychical Research ............................................. 1886
*PSYOHOLOGY (American Journal of) Vol. I., Nos. 2 and 3 ...............
Baltimore, U.S.A.• 1888
*SANDBY (Rev. George, M.A.) Mesmerism and ita Opponents (2nd
edition.) London, 1848
*SIGERSON (Geo.•M.D.) A.n Examination into certain recently Reported
Phenomena in connection with Hystero-Epilepsy and Cerebral
AllllBBthesia......................................·........................London, 1879
*STRANGE TRACTS. Edited by the Rev.J. Herbert Williams. I. Auto-
matic Writing. 11. The JapanesA Writing. III. From the Books.
London, 1887-8
*TwEEDIE (A..C.) Mesmerism and ita Realities ..................Edinburqh. 1857
*wALLACE (Alfred Ruaael) On Miracles and Modem Spiritualism
London. 1875
Digitized by Google
344 Journal of Society JOT P8ychical Re8eaTCh. [Nov•• 1888.
*ZOLLNER (J. C. F.) Transcendental Physics. From the Germa1l. by
C. C. Massey. (2nd edition) .......................................London. 1882
*BERNHEIM (Dr. Prof.) De la Suggestion dans l'Etat Hypnotique
Pans. 1884
*BuLLETINS de 1& Societe de Psychologie Physiologique (various parts)
Paria, 1885-7
*DELB<EUF (Prof. J.) Une Visite a1& Salp~triere ..................BrusseZ8, 1886
*-- De l'Origine des Effets Curatifs de l'Hypno~iame ............Paria, 1887
*DESPINE (Dr. Prosper) Etude Scientifique sur la SomnambulismeParia, 1880
*MAuxy (L. F .A.) Le Sommail at les R~ves ........................Paria, 1878
*MABICOURT (R., Comte de) Souvenirs d'un Magnetiseur .........Paria, 1884
*LItBEAULT (Dr. A. A.) Etude sur Ie Zoomagnetiame...............Paria, 1883
*-- Du Sommeil et des Etats Analogues ...........................Paria, 1866
*OCHOBOWICZ (Dr. J.) De 1& Suggestion Mentale ; avec une Preface de
M. Charles Richet........................................................Paria, 1887
*RICHET (Prof. C.) L'Homme et l'Inte1ligenc~ ........................Paria. 1884
*-- La Physiologie et la Medecine ....................................Paria, 1888
*TAGUET (Dr.) Hypnotisme avec Hyperesthesie de l'Ouie et de l'Odorat
Paris, 1884
*BAUMLER (Prof. Dr. C.) Der sogenannte Animalische Magnetismus
oder Hypnotiamus......................................................Leipzig, 1881
*DEssom (Max) Bibliographie des Modemen Hypnotiamus......Berlin, 1888
*PERTY (Dr. M.) Die Mystischen Erscheinungen der Menschlichen
Natur. (2nd edition) Vol. I. .......................................Leipzig, 1872
*PREYER (prof. W.) Die Erkla.rung des Gedankenlesens .........Leipzig, 1886
*SCHNEIDER (G. H.) Die Psychologiache Ursache der Hypnotiachen
Erscheinungen ........................................................Leipzig, 1880
*WEINHOLD (Prof. Dr. Adolf F.) Hypnotiache Versuche ......Chemnitz. 1880
*WERNICKE (Alex.) Zur Theorie der Hypnose ..................Altenb'Urg, 1887
*Presented by Mrs. Gurney.
Digitized by Google
