{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v2_n3_mar_2006.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V2 N3 Mar 2006","mylang":"de"}
50
PSYPIONEER - An Electronic Newsletter
Founded by Leslie Price Edited by Paul Gaunt
Volume 2, No 3; March 2006.
Highlights of this issue
Lectures in Clairmativeness. Lecture Third- A.J. Davis 50
From Spiritualism to Theosophy- Francesca Arundale 56
What I Believe - Ernest Walter Oaten 59
New Australian Parapsychology Doctorate 68
Magical Writer Censored 69
How to obtain this Newsletter. 70
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS
LECTURE THIRD.
(For an introduction, and the first lecture in this series, see Psypioneer Vo. 2 No 1.
January 2006; the second lecture appeared last month. The final fourth lecture and
Appendix will be published next month, and followed by a note on the implications. )
In our last Lecture it was shown-1st
, that Animal Magnetism, or heat, exists in the
sympathetic nerves, and is the cause of all involuntary motion and sensation in the system;
2d, that electricity is the agent by which all voluntary motion is produced; 3d, that the
magnetic sleep is produced by divesting the system of all its magnetism, with the exception
of enough to carry on vital action; and 4th, it was shown that by the same means the torpid
state is produced in animals.
Sixth. We are now to speak of the production of Magnetism and Electricity. (5th was
apparently omitted - PP ed.)
Magnetism - and I am not here treating on that branch of science which refers to the
properties of the magnet- is that subtle fluid we commonly term caloric, or heat. This fluid
is produced from the magnetic influence of the sun upon the earth and planets. It originates
from the sun. Mr. Duncan. Bradford, in his " Wonders of the Heavens, "says: -
"It has lately been discovered, that the rays of heat, or caloric, are distinct from each
other; for it can be demonstrated that some rays from the sun produce heat which have no
power of communicating light or, color. The greatest heat is found in the red rays, the least
in the violet rays; and in a space (in the solar spectrum) beyond the red rays, where there
is no light, the temperature is the greatest. The rays of the sun have also been found to
produce different chemical effects. The white muriate of silver is blackened in the violet
ray, in the space of fifteen seconds, though the red ray will not produce the same effect in
less than twenty minutes. Phosphorus is kindled in the vicinity of the red ray, and
extinguished in the vicinity of the violet. The solar light, therefore, consists of three
51
different orders of rays, one producing color, a second producing heat, and a third
chemical effects.
"The opacity of the interior of the globe of the sun is no reason why it may not act a part
in the production or preservation of the solar heat; on the contrary, it appears highly
probable and consistent with the discoveries, that the dark nucleus of the sun is the
magazine from which its heat is discharged; while the luminous or phosphorescent mantle
which the heat freely pervades, is the region where its light is generated. Herschell's own
experiments assure us, that invisible rays, which have the power of heating, and which are
totally distinct from those which produce light, are actually emitted from the sun; and that
luminous rays, incapable of producing heat, are discharged from the same source. These
facts, therefore, not only confirm the theory which we have stated, but receive in return,
from that theory, the most satisfactory explanation. The invisible rays, which pervade every
part of the solar spectrum, formed by a prism, and which extend beyond its red extremity,
are emitted from the opaque nucleus, and therefore excite no sensation of light on the
human retina; while the colored rays, which form the spectrum itself, are discharged from
the luminous matter that encircles the solid nucleus, and therefore endowed with the
properties of illumination.
"Hence it is easy to assign the reason why the light and heat of the sun are apparently
always in a state of combination, and why the one emanation cannot be obtained without
the other. The heat projected from the dark body, and the light emitted from the luminous
atmosphere, are thrown off in lines diverging in every possible direction; so that the two
radiations must be uniformly intermingled, and, as in a stream flowing from two
contiguous sources, the heat must always accompany its kindred element. We find the
invisible heat of the sun existing separately from its light, and possessing a degree of
refrangibility less than the least refrangible rays of the prismatic spectrum. Light has like-
wise been found separate from heat; and though it may be imagined that this arises from
the extreme tenuity of the light, yet, when the light of the moon is concentrated by powerful
burning mirrors, we ought certainly to have expected that the heat, if any did exist, would
be appreciable by delicate thermometers.
Every attempt, however, to detect heat in the rays of the moon, has completely failed; and
we are entitled to presume that a greater proportion of heat than of light has been
absorbed by that luminary. If light and heat, then, be two different substances, endowed
with different chemical and physical properties, is it not unphilosophical to suppose that
they are emitted from the same source, when we have actually two different regions in the
sun, to which we, can, with more propriety, refer their origin?”
Atmospheric Electricity is produced from caloric, or heat. All the phenomena of electricity
can be produced by heat. These fluids, when developed, are repulsive to each other, and
become the agents of all motion in the universe.
Electricity pervades the whole of the earth's atmosphere, and performs all the mutual
actions of nature. It is the main agent in the growth of trees and plants-the cause of the rain,
and of the refreshing dew. The heat which accumulates upon the surface of the earth during
the day, repulses the electric fluid to the upper regions: this fluid carries with it vaporous
particles, which form themselves into clouds, and at length become so dense that they are
attracted again near to the earth, when the electric fluid is gradually dissipated by the heat
52
or magnetism which it again comes in contact with, and the watery vapor, becoming
disengaged, falls in drops of rain. These drops, however, still contain a considerable
quantity of the electric fluid, which is dispersed through the atmosphere, and which
accounts for the refreshing coolness of the air after a shower. By the same agency is
produced the dews of the night. The heat prevents the particles of vapor, which float in the
air, from falling to the earth during the day, these particles being insolated with electricity;
but when the sun has sunk behind the western hills, and the heat occasioned by its rays, is
dissipated, these particles, with the electricity they contain, are attracted to the earth,
moistening its herbage, and producing the coolness of the evening. For the same cause
clouds always sail highest in a hot day. All evaporation is produced by the combined
agency of these two fluids.
Electricity and Magnetism keep the planets in their spheres, and cause their revolutions
around the sun. The sun is the great centre of the solar system. It is the source of light and
heat. It is magnetic, and naturally attracts all bodies to its centre. Were it not for the great
body of electricity that encircles the earth, it would be attracted into the sun. But electricity
is repulsive to magnetism: this repulsive power of the electric fluid is a barrier to the sun's
magnetic or centripetal power, and gives the earth its centrifugal force, and, consequently,
its motion round the sun. The same also with the other bodies.
There is a strong attraction existing between the moon and our planet; but the former
contains a greater body of magnetism, or heat, than the latter, and the electricity of the earth
arrests the attractive tendency, and gives the moon its motion round the earth.
Astronomers have never been able to account satisfactorily, on any natural principles, for
the centrifugal force of the planets; and hence it has been ascribed to the immediate power
of the Supreme Being. But if it required this immediate power at first to give the planets
their centrifugal force and motion round the sun, it requires also that this power should be
constantly exercised, to prevent their being attracted into the sun. The centripetal power of
the sun must be continually balanced by a centrifugal force of the planets, or, in time, the
whole solar system would become wrecked and disorganized. Mr. Burritt, in his "Geogra-
phy of the Heavens," says: -
"Every planet moves in its orbit with a velocity varying every instant, in consequence of
two forces; one tending to the centre of the sun, and the other in the direction of a tangent
to its orbit; arising from the primitive impulse given at, the time it was launched into space.
The former is called its centripetal, the latter, its centrifugal force. Should the centrifugal
force cease, the planet would fall to the sun by its gravity; were the sun not to attract it, it
would fly off from its orbit in a straight line.
"By the time a planet has reached its aphelion, or that point of its orbit which is farthest
from the sun, his attraction has overcome its velocity, and draws it towards him with such
an accelerated motion, that it at last overcomes the sun's attraction, and shoots past him;
then gradually decreasing in velocity, it arrives at the perihelion, when the sun's attraction
again prevails."
The above theory of the gravitation of the heavenly bodies is that now universally received
by astronomers. They are agreed in ascribing the centrifugal force of the planets in the first
instance to the Supreme Being, (and to him all worlds owe not only their motion, but
origin;) but they have failed to point out to us those agents by which that force was first
53
given. Motion is the result of certain fixed laws, established by the Deity. In seeking for
those laws we are only approaching one step nearer to him who is the Author and Creator
of all things. Now, astronomers have not only left us in the dark relative to the laws by
which the Deity gave projectile force to the bodies that move in the regions of space, but
they have, it seems to me, failed in many particulars to account for the gravitation of those
bodies without a constant miracle every moment taking place, -or, in other words, without
the constant exercise of infinite power.
It is said that centrifugal force was given the planets when launched into the regions of
space from the hands of the Supreme Being. Their attractive power was acquired at the
same instant. The sun being the larger' body and the centre of the solar system, the
tendency of the planets would be towards him; but the centrifugal impetus, at first given
them, so nicely counterbalances this attraction. That they can neither fly off nor rush
together, but move around him in their present order and harmony. But if this were so, the
distances of the planets from the sun, and from each other, would ever be invariably the
same, and their motions would of necessity be uniform and regular.
Suppose, for instance, the earth to have been ninety-five millions of miles from the sun
when motion was first given it, - and suppose this distance to have been that point in space
where the centrifugal and centripetal forces were precisely adjusted and balanced; the same
distance would have been constantly maintained between them in the revolutions of the one
round the other, and the orbit of the earth would be perfectly spherical, instead of elliptical,
as it now is. And it would maintain the same velocity, without being either retarded or
accelerated, which it had acquired at the time when the two powers were at first balanced.
But the reverse is the fact.
Again. The theory that, -"By the time a planet has reached its aphelion, or that point of its
orbit which is farthest from the sun, his attraction has overcome its velocity, and draws it
towards him with such an accelerated motion, that it at last overcomes the sun's attraction,
and shoots past him; then gradually decreasing in velocity, it arrives at the perihelion, when
the sun's attraction again prevails"-has its difficulties. If the sun's attractive force at any
time overpowered the earth's centrifugal, so as to bring the same with an accelerated
motion towards him, the centrifugal, from that moment, would decrease in the same ratio,
and the earth would rush upon the sun. The attractive power which produced the quickened
velocity would constantly increase the nearer the two bodies approached each other, and
that accelerated motion could never impart centrifugal force sufficient to break or
overpower that attraction, and cause the earth to rush past the sun for any indefinite period
of time. On the contrary, it would continue to more around him with increased velocity,
lessening its orbit, until it was finally lost in that immense body.
But then it is said that it is the increased velocity itself which gives the centrifugal force, or
tendency to fly off, so that by this means the attractive or centripetal force is overpowered,
and the earth thus regains the distance which it had lost when in its perihelion. But is not
the increased velocity caused by increased attraction? -and can that attraction give force to
any body sufficient to overpower itself, and cause it to travel an equal distance beyond, or
to regain its aphelion at the same point in the heavens? This, it seems to me, is utterly
impossible.
54
The increased velocity and tendency of the earth towards the sun, would be in proportion,
or just equal to the attractive force that had caused it, and it would be no greater than this:
hence, in order to overpower that attractive force which is now held, the earth would
require an impetus given it besides that which it originally had, and that which was given it
by attraction.
Now, where shall we look for this required additional force? To the Creator? If so, by what
means does he impart it? The answer to this question has already been given: -caloric and
electricity are the agents employed.
Let us suppose for a moment that the planets are struck from the solar system, and that the
earth is arrested in its annual revolutions, and suddenly becomes stationary. The first
motion that would be given it would be directly towards the sun, through its strong
attractive power upon the earth. And unless there were strong opposing power created upon
the latter, it would eventually be attracted into the former. Now this opposing force does
actually exist in the great body of electricity which surrounds the earth, and is produced
from the rays of heat which is sent off from the sun. This fluid, when sufficiently
developed, would become repulsive to the great body of magnetism or heat contained in the
sun, and thus acquire a resisting force sufficient to counterbalance the attractive force of the
two bodies for each other, and give the earth the course which it now performs around the
sun.
The theory we have here presented is greatly confirmed by the course of comets. These
bodies are seen often going in a direct line for the sun; but when they have approached to
that body within certain distances, they have been known to diverge, and recede directly
from it. The rays of heat from the sun, as they near him, create or develope a sufficient
quantity of the electric fluid to give them a repulsive force, when their motion is changed
and they recede with unparalleled velocity from the point of attraction.
The comet of 1680 approached within 130,000 miles of the sun. In that part of its orbit
which was nearest the sun, it flew with the amazing swiftness of 1,000,000 miles in an
hour. It was then exposed to a heat twenty-seven thousand times greater than the solar heat
at the earth. This intensity of heat exceeds, several thousand times, that of red-hot iron, and
indeed all the degrees of heat we are able to produce. This intense heat must have produced
a vast quantity of electricity, which gave the comet its centrifugal force, and caused it to
recede with such velocity. Comets themselves, it is generally allowed, contain more heat
than other celestial bodies, and from this heat is produced much of the electric fluid, and it
is seen in the vaporous atmosphere which surrounds them, and in what is commonly termed
the tail of comets, extending sometimes for many millions of miles. It is this great quantity
of electricity which is constantly produced from the heat of these bodies that completely
overpowers the sun's centripetal force, and causes them to remove wholly beyond his
attractive influence;-otherwise, when they once come within that attractive power, their
orbits would be fixed in that relative distance, and they would move around the sun with
the constancy and the regularity of the planets themselves.
This view of the subject accounts for another singular phenomenon which we witness with
regard to comets. The luminous train of a comet usually follows it, as it approaches the sun,
and goes before it, when the comet recedes from the sun. Allowing the luminous train to be
electricity, as this fluid and heat are repulsive to each other, the phenomenon just named
would of necessity occur.
55
Now from this fact we derive the most positive evidence that an increased repulsive force,
is communicated to the comet, when in its perihelion, which it neither acquired from the
attraction of the sun, nor from the motion it had before it came within that attractive
influence. If the increased centrifugal force was effected by attraction, the luminous train
would maintain its position in the rear of the comet when receding from the sun, the same
as when approaching him. But the fact of its changing its entire position, and always
keeping on the side of the comet directly opposite to the sun, proves that the whole is
effected by a strong repulsive force existing between the two bodies.
From the fact that the electric fluid increases when the comet is in its perihelion, extending
its train of electricity by means of the intense heat sent of from the sun from which it is
evolved, we might expect, when the earth was in its perihelion, to witness a similar
phenomenon. And a like phenomenon is witnessed in what is termed the aurora borealis,
or northern lights.
"The earth being in its perihelion about the first of January, and in its aphelion about the
first of July, we are three millions of miles nearer the sun in winter than in midsummer."
The rays of the sun then falling vertically upon the southern regions of the globe, create a
greater proportion of heat, from which is evolved a greater quantity of electricity, which
being thrown off by repulsion to the northern regions, and accumulating in a more dense
body at the vicinity of the Pole, not only presents, by its frequent variations, the luminous
aspect in the heavens, which we denominate the Aurora Borealis, but also accounts for
what has never yet been adequately accounted for---the extreme rigor of our winters.
Electricity is cold, and of course is repulsive to magnetism, or heat. Hence but a very little
heat exists in the northern regions, it being repulsed by the great body of electricity there.
The electric fluid increases in quantity also, the further you ascend into the atmosphere,
being repulsed by the heat upon the earth's surface.
Were not this subject in a measure foreign to the object of these Lectures, I should be
pleased to give these interesting facts a further investigation; but inasmuch as it is, I must
content myself with what has already been offered - my design having been to illustrate the
fact, that the magnetic and electric fluids are the agents employed by the Creator, in
causing all motion in the universe. But, since I have given you the Clairvoyant's theory on
the motions of the heavenly bodies, I must be permitted to close the same by giving his
description of the planet Saturn-its inhabitants-the formation of its rings, &c.
On the evening that the experiment was made, before he was put to sleep, in order to
ascertain whether he had any correct knowledge of the planet, I put to him this question:-
"Jackson, can you tell the any thing about Saturn?" "About who?" said he. "Saturn," said I
"No sir,’' said he, "I don't know him." From this answer I was convinced that he was
entirely ignorant of the subject of my inquiry, and that he understood me to refer to some
person. Indeed, I know that he is naturally ignorant of astronomy, and of all other sciences;
for being born of poor, but respectable, parents, and having been early apprenticed to the
shoe making business, the only schooling he ever had was five months. Private instructors
he never had, -and he has frequently told me that he never read a book on any science.
After he was thrown into the trance state, (clairvoyance,) I requested him to go and take a
view of Saturn, and tell me what he saw there. He immediately made a movement of the
head in the direction of the planet, and was absent in mind about ten minutes. When he
56
returned, he spoke as follows:---" O, how beautiful! Did you see those splendid rings? Now
I will tell you how they are formed, for astronomers have never yet understood the matter.
"In the first place, the planet itself is very beautiful. The air there, is more clear and serene
than it is on the other planets. The three gases, oxygen, hydrogen. and carbon, which
compose in part Saturn's atmosphere, form the two rings. The first, or inner ring, is more
brilliant than the outer one--both have seven different colors. The oxygen extends from the
planet to where you see the first ring formed, and no farther. It being separated there from
the gases above, the rays of light from the sun falling upon it at the point of division, makes
it very brilliant, so that it can be seen from the earth, through telescopes, in the form of a
broad, beautiful and variegated band, extending quite round the planet. It is the upper
extremity of the oxygen gas, and the falling of the rays of light upon it, that produces this
splendid phenomenon, which has long been the admiration and wonder of the world. The
hydrogen and carbonic gases extend from the planet to where you see the second or outer
ring. These gases being composed of different substances from the other, and not being so
clear, when acted upon by the light, at their outer extremity, render the second ring, which
they there form, less brilliant than the other.
"The other planets have their rings like Saturn, being formed in the same way-but the
gases not being so pure on the other planets, you are not able to discover them, though I
can always see them when I am in this state. The moon has its rings, and you sometimes
see them. They call them 'Circles round the moon,' and say, ' it is a sign of a storm.' The
earth also has two rings, and if you were at the moon you could at times see them. The
oxygen extends from the earth's surface seven miles, -there, is the formation of the first
ring. The carbon and hydrogen gases extend still further, and at their termination the
second ring is formed. When you see what is called a double rainbow, you see a likeness of
these very rings; and they are, in color, a fac-simile of Saturn's.
"Do you know that Saturn is inhabited? The people there are very different from the
people on this earth. They are very beautiful, and more intellectual---they have very high
foreheads, and their symmetry is perfect. Their skin is so clear and transparent that you can
almost see the blood as it circulates through the veins. There is no sin there; they are
unacquainted with strife and bitterness; - they worship God with willing hearts, all as one.
There is no sickness there, because they obey the organic laws of their nature. They live
nine or ten hundred years, and die of old age, when the system has worn itself out."
………………………………………………………………………
FROM SPIRITUALISM TO THEOSOPHY
Modern Spiritualists in Britain only gradually came to believe in reincarnation. Did they get
this belief from France, the home of Kardecism, from America, or from India? The case of
Francesca Arundale, aunt of the third president of the Theosophical Society, George
Arundale, illustrates this question. We take the account below from her book “ My Guest-
H.P. Blavatsky “ (TPH Adyar, 1932)
Readers will notice a reference to the belief, widely held in the early T.S., that Spiritualism
was a movement inspired by living adepts for occult purposes. We hope to return to this
theory at a later date LP.
57
As I have been asked to give my personal reminiscences of the early days of the Theo-
sophical Society, I feel that I cannot well enter upon these without touching slightly on the
causes that led me to it.
In the May number of The Theosophist (1917) there is an account by Mrs. Besant of the
rising of the Spiritualistic Movement, and how it was used in the early days of the Theo-
sophical Society to draw attention to after-death conditions, and to stem the spread of
Materialism, particularly in the West. The Yucatan Brotherhood had given to the world
demonstrations of a power outside and beyond the physical, and a wave of spiritualistic
phenomena was drawing the attention of many observant people in America as well as in
England and France. In one of our visits to this latter country, my mother and I became
acquainted with a very ardent Spiritualist, and we had several séances of a remarkable
character at his house. An uncle, Mr. Pickersgill, of a very sceptical mind, had also peculiar
and personal experiences on the voyage from America to England. We determined to form
a small group for the purpose of investigating the phenomena which had presented
themselves before us, and a lady friend proving a good medium, we had weekly séances of
a very interesting character. As we had at the beginning taken up the study of Spiritualism
in France, we had naturally drifted into the Allan Kardec school of philosophy, and the
theory of reincarnation was an integral part of our spiritualistic conceptions.
For six or seven years we continued as Spiritualists to have constant intercourse with the
so-called dead, and there is no form of manifestation of spirit influence with which we
were not familiar, nor were there any of the well-known mediums who did not come for
private séances to our house. Tests which could not have been applied at public séances
frequently occurred; members of my own family returned and materialised sufficiently
clearly for me to recognise them. Once, when Mr. G. S. Arundale was an infant, I went to a
trance séance of a Mr. Fletcher, leaving my mother with the child, and entered the lecture
hall quite unknown to those present. The medium had recently come to England as a trance
speaker, and I went on the spur of the moment to hear him. I there received a direct
message from Mr. Arundale's mother, giving names and particulars, saying that the spirit
entity had just visited our house and seen the child, and that all would be well with him.
I do not say that in all cases these phenomena would bear the searching tests of a
Psychical Research Society. There is no one who has made a careful study of the
manifestations of the Spiritualistic Movement but must be aware of the strange
uncertainties and many deceptions, not only on the part of the medium, but also on the part
of the manifesting intelligences. I can recall seances in which I knew deception had been
practised, but it sometimes curiously happened that the very deception itself proved to be a
test, because it so conclusively proved that the manifestation did not come from the
medium, but came from a force external and outside, whatever the intelligence of the
manifesting entity might be. During the seven years that we spent in these investigations,
we became familiar with phenomena of all kinds, direct writing through slate,
materialisations through Eglinton, Hearn, Williams, and many others whose names I have
now forgotten, apports and disintegrations, and the appearance of the manifesting entity
and the medium at the same time; most of these took place in our own home where the
possibility of trickery was to a very large extent eliminated.
58
I do not now remember when I joined the British National Association of Spiritualists,
but I do remember, in March, 1881, having had the temerity to read a paper on
Reincarnation before the orthodox English Spiritualists of that Society. This paper was the
cause of a very wordy warfare in the columns of the journal Light, Dr. George Wyld and
some others attacking the doctrine most violently.
It had, however, one good effect for me, for happening to mention that I agreed most
emphatically with a threefold division of man into body, soul and spirit, this drew the
attention of that very advanced lady, Dr. Anna Kingsford, to the paper, and she wrote to me
asking if I would like to attend a series of lectures which she was about to give at her own
house. These lectures were afterwards published in book form under the title The Perfect
Way: or the Finding of Christ There was much in those lectures that led me a step onward,
in my quest for truth, towards a fuller conception of the mystery of the Divine Unfoldment
in man, and however much I now realise that those lectures were but a preparation for
future teaching, and that, from the point of view of Theosophy, much may have been
incomplete and even erroneous, I cannot but be very grateful both to Dr. Anna Kingsford
and Mr. Edward Maitland, her collaborator, for the help and instruction those lectures and
discussions afforded.
There was another very important way in which I benefited by coming into contact with
Dr. Anna Kingsford. She was an ardent, I might almost say a violent, vegetarian. I re-
member how, when she came to stay with us once, she brought a little guinea-pig which
was her particular pet, rather than a dog or cat, because of its vegetarian proclivities. We
had many talks on the subject of non-meat eating, and she convinced both my mother and
myself that flesh-eating was cruel and unnecessary. We became vegetarians, but I cannot
say that we showed much discrimination in our choice of nutriment to begin with, boiled
cabbage and greens and potatoes replacing a more succulent diet. But we persevered and
soon learnt how a more appetising menu, and although then I have relapsed, yet I have
vegetarian diet from that time.
In the beginning of 1881, there was a very remarkable medium who was then holding
private seances in London. I do not remember how we became acquainted with Mrs.
Hollis-Billing, but I have a very clear remembrance of the weekly seances we had with her.
My readers will say that I must have lived in the séance room, and to a great extent it is
true; the complex nature of the manifestations, the difficulty of discriminating between
truth and falsehood, of avoiding credulity and self-deception, made constant and
unremitting experience necessary. Mrs. Hollis-Billing was a friend of Madame Blavatsky,
although I did not know it at the time, and she is mentioned by Colonel Olcott in his Old
Diary Leaves; many of the occurrences in these and other seances were only to be under-
stood in the light which Theosophy afterwards shed upon them.
The seances with Mrs. Hollis-Billing were unique, and I regret very much that, in the
course of my wanderings, I have lost a book of notes which I took of them. The mani-
festing " spirit guide " was called " Ski," and interesting and valuable philosophical
instruction was given through him. We were a very private party, my mother and myself,
Mr. and Mrs. Edmond W. Wade, Madame Isabel de Steiger, Mrs. Susannah Brewerton and
some others whose names have now passed from my memory. We used to meet and sing a
few of the usual spiritualistic songs, and then after a few minutes' silence we heard the
voice of "Ski," who generally addressed each one of us by name, giving a friendly greeting
to each. As Mrs. Hollis-Billing had been with Madame Blavatsky, it is not astonishing that
59
the spirit guides manifesting through her displayed a knowledge of philosophy and
occultism which, although I did not then know it, was based on Theosophical teachings and
was very different from the usual mediumistic utterances. Sometimes materialistic
phenomena occurred. An empty frame was placed upon an easel with a little loose drapery
behind it, and a living portrait of a friend or relative of a sitter would gradually materialise
within the picture-frame. What made the greatest impression, however, upon myself and
most of the sitters was the strange and sometimes weird stories which purported to be past
lives of various individuals. These were given through Mrs. Billing by "Ski," and I well
remember an Egyptian life, the story of which held me spellbound; and the relation of the
events which I was said to have passed through filled me with a strange emotion, which I
can still recall, although the facts given have faded from my memory.
These lives may or may not have been seen clearly and truly, but I feel convinced that
some glimpses came to us, and that " Ski " was able to read in our auras some slight history
of our past.
One day, after we had been attending these seances for same time, Mrs. Brewerton, with
whom, I had become very intimate, said to me " I think, Miss Arundale, I am justified in
speaking to you about the Theosophical Society, and that you are a fit and proper person to
become a member if you wish."
I told her I knew nothing of the Theosophical Society, and she then explained a little about
it. The call came, and we answered it, and both my mother and myself sent in our
applications and became members of the Society; but I was far from realising the
momentous step which I was taking, a step which, however much I may have failed in my
duties as a true Theosophist, has nevertheless led me to that path which I trust will, life by
life, bring me nearer to the Supreme Goal.
………………………………………………………………
ERNEST WALTER OATEN
1875-1952
Ernest Oaten, one of the most formidable workers for organised spiritualism, giving
almost sixty years service, but has now been largely forgotten. He was a fine orator,
debater, writer, and president of both the ‘Spiritualists’ National Union’ (S.N.U.) and
‘International Spiritualist Federation’. (I.S.F.) He was also editor of the once fine
weekly paper, ‘Two Worlds’ from 1919-1945. He served as chairman and spokesman
for the parliamentary committee of the SNU in the first deputation to the Home
Office against the Witchcraft and Vagrancy Acts, as well as the first speaker on behalf
of the Spiritualist movement in Great Britain to address the nation on the BBC radio,
in 1934. Ernest Oaten, it was said, had studied every phase of psychical phenomena
and was a fine trance medium himself.
60
Oaten served two terms of office as president of the S.N.U. 1915-1920 and 1922-1923.
It was under Oaten’s first presidency in 1916 at Glasgow that it was resolved to raise
a fund of £1000,00 for the purpose of parliamentary action for amendment to the
Witchcraft and Vagrancy acts. Oaten was closely associated with Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle in this fight for an amendment of the law which prevented mediums working
legally; they worked together on this and on other earlier enterprises. On 1 July 1930
the first deputation headed by Doyle was met the Home Secretary; this was sadly to
be Doyle’s last gallant fight for spiritualism as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle died on 7 July
1930.
Oaten’s contribution to Spiritualism was long and notable, with achievements too
numerous to cover is one article. It is my intention therefore to cover all of the
aforementioned contributions in several parts over the next few newsletters.
………………………………………………………..
(Part One of Ernest Oaten’s Contributions To Spiritualism follows) –
ERNEST OATEN MAKES HISTORY
For a considerable period, the Spiritualists of this country have been agitating to secure
recognition by the British Broadcasting Corporation. As one of the important religious
denominations of this country, they have asked to be included in the list of denominations
broadcasting Sunday services, but the privilege has been denied them. As an alternative,
they pressed their claim to recognition in respect of the secular programmes; and the result
was that on Friday, April 13th, 1934, the first broadcast talk on Spiritualism was
transmitted from London. Mr. E.W. Oaten was unanimously chosen as the representative of
the Spiritualist Movement.
The broadcasting of the message of Spiritualism represents an historic achievement, for it
meant that the Movement was recognised by the Broadcasting authorities in this country -
themselves responsible to Parliament - and incidentally the introduction of our case to
hundreds of thousands of people who had never heard a Spiritualist address or read a book
on the subject.
As a result, Mr. Oaten's post-bag was filled with hundreds of letters from persons whose
interest had been provoked by his able exposition of the Spiritualist outlook, and who asked
for further information. Undoubtedly the talk aroused widespread enthusiasm. It should be
pointed out that Mr. Oaten' s remarks were entirely uncensored and he was allowed every
facility in making clear his opinions.
The production of this booklet is the result of numerous requests which have reached us,
and we hereby express our appreciation of the favours of the Broadcasting Corporation
and Mr. E. W. Oaten, in granting permission for the publication of the verbatim report of
the talk and discussion.
"THE TWO WORLDS" PUBLISHING Co., LTD. Manchester, 4.
……………………………………………………
61
WHAT I BELIEVE:
By ERNEST W. OATEN.
President, International Spiritualist Federation; A Member of the Council of the Spiritualists' National
Union; and Editor of "The Two Worlds."
I have been asked, as a representative Spiritualist, to tell you "what I believe."
A man's convictions are based upon his training, plus his experience. I was brought up
in the bosom of Nonconformity, and in my late teens was seriously troubled by grave
doubts concerning matters of religion. It seemed to me that the whole of religion turned
upon the question of whether there is, or is not, an after life. Is our present existence
complete in itself, or is it a segment of a greater circle? If there is no life beyond this, then
there may be a case for ethics and morality, but there is none for religion; and accordingly
the existence of a spiritual world forms the preamble of all the great world religions.
YOUTHFUL DOUBTS.
I was then a young man, and young men often make hasty decisions. I came to the
conclusion that there was no evidence whatever for a future life. Reliance was placed upon
the traditions of the past, and the credibility of these opened the way to very extensive
argument. It was at this juncture that I heard of Spiritualism. The subject at first aroused in
my mind something of incredulity, and something of contempt, and yet the men I knew
who were associated with the subject, were sane, decent and reliable business-men. I
listened to what they had to say concerning their experiences at seances, and I came to the
conclusion that they had been deluded; and that it only needed me to expose the whole
subject. Yet if what they said was true, Spiritualism offered the type of evidence I had
found nowhere else.
It was in this frame of mind that, accompanied by two relatives, I attended my first séance-
in February, 1892, at Cardiff. The company assembled were of an intelligent middle-class
type, some 16 in number. We sat in a good white light, quite sufficient for reading by, in
the home of a working man; and at that séance a large walnut round table floated in the air,
without any contact. A relative and I, holding a walking-stick between us, completely
encircled it in every direction as it floated in space. The whole company turned the backs of
their chairs to the table, and knelt on the seats, so that no feet were underneath the table;
they joined hands round, and I assert that the table rose into space, and remained suspended
for some minutes.
INTELLIGENT TABLES.
Further, it was under intelligent direction. It obeyed our requests as to moving in this
direction or that, and later (still without any contact), spelt out messages, including the
name and address, the date of death, &c., of my grandfather, who had died some years
before in the West of England. We were told of his age; trade; the maiden name of his wife,
&c. I made a complete examination of the room and could detect no mechanism, wires, or
anything of the sort, to account for the happening. I was puzzled! The following day I
62
obtained a pair of trucks, borrowed the table, and had it weighed at a store. It registered 84
pounds. That was my first experience.
On returning home that night one of my relatives and I tried an experiment with a small
card-table by placing our hands upon its surface. It tilted very freely. I had heard something
of "unconscious muscular action," and so I made an effort to get information which might
throw some light on the force directing the table. We laid down a code, by asking the table
to tilt at each letter of the alphabet, stopping at the one required, and by this cumbersome
method messages were spelt out letter by letter. On that occasion we received information
concerning a relative in London, of whom we had not heard for five years. It referred to
happenings at that present moment, which could not possibly have been known to anyone
in Cardiff: These were subsequently verified up to the hilt. I have neither the time nor
inclination at the moment to go into the details of the messages, which concerned the
intimate domestic, life of the family. That was my first night at a séance. I still have in my
possession the exact notes taken both at the séance and subsequent experiment.
That experience convinced me that there was something which demanded explanation and I
commenced a long course of reading and personal investigation which has lasted forty odd
years-brought me untold happiness, and settled all doubts as to there being Wisdom and
Purpose behind all life; and has left me without a single shred of doubt as to my eternal
future.
DARK SEANCES ARE FEW.
I have sat in more than 4,000 seances, under all conditions, many of them ridiculous in
their simplicity, and many arranged under strict scientific control. Of those seances,
considerably fewer than 100 have taken place in the dark. I know that certain forms of
psychic phenomena are more easily obtained in the dark, but I have a strong distaste for
dark seances, and always object to sit in the dark with strangers. It is not merely that I am
suspicious of mediums. I want to see what the sitters are doing! I have witnessed as much
duplicity on the part of sitters as that of mediums. Dark seances are in my opinion not
necessary to conviction, and generally raise more questions than they settle. Under
excellent conditions for observation, and in good light, I believe I have seen every phase of
psychic phenomena.
It would be true to say that quite 50 per cent. of these phenomena, whilst interesting, offer
little or no evidence of the action of the spirits. Probably a further 25 per cent. form a
borderland in which one has to choose between the Spiritualistic and other hypotheses
(telepathy, intuition, subconscious activity, &c.). But in my experience there is a residuum,
which points to the fact that the intelligences at work are human beings other than those
present in the flesh. In other words, as a result of forty years' investigation, I am absolutely
certain that the so-called "dead" can communicate with the living.
POSITIVE ASSURANCE.
I assert that the evidence I have obtained makes it impossible for me to doubt that I have
talked with those who have passed through the gates of death. So strong is that conviction,
that if I were the only man on earth who believed it, my faith would remain unshaken. I
have seen deceased persons clairvoyantly, and obtained veridical messages and information
63
which was unknown to anyone present. I have photographed spirit forms under strict test
conditions. I have seen, spoken to, and held in my arms materialised forms in lamplight,
gaslight, electric light and daylight. I have clasped their, hands and held conversations with
them in the presence of witnesses. Hence let me say categorically and emphatically - I
know that there is a life beyond this, for I have talked with the people who live in it. I am
sure that some, at least, of its inhabitants are people who have migrated from this world. It
is not merely a case of accumulated evidence allowing me to hold this belief. So conclusive
is the evidence in my experience, that it would compel belief even though my inclinations
pointed in another direction, as they certainly did when my quest began.
Doubtless I shall be expected to say something on the question of fraud. Yes! I have met
fraud, but its 'proportion is certainly not greater than one meets in the ordinary everyday
affairs of life. There have been dairymen who have adulterated milk, and coal merchants
who have given short weight, but no one believes that every dairyman and coalman is
dishonest! Fraudulent mediumship is generally known to the public because Spiritualists
take every opportunity to openly and publicly denounce it. In other movements unsavoury
incidents are generally covered up and suppressed. The Spiritualist believes that fraud and
duplicity in matters of religion should be ruthlessly exposed.
THE VALUE OF THE HOME CIRCLE.
Most of my experience has been gained in what is called a `Home Circle,' where no
strangers have been present. I have had very few dealings with professional mediums:
firstly, because I could not afford them, and secondly, because I preferred investigation
with my own family and personal friends, in my own home. In forty years, the total fees
paid to mediums by me, have certainly not aggregated £10: and I have seen better pheno-
mena in my own home and the homes of intimate friends, than I have ever witnessed at
professional seances. I do not decry professional mediums, provided the investigator can be
assured as to their bona fides. The best way to secure this is to gain the confidence of a
responsible Spiritualist, or a reliable Spiritualist Association. Many professional mediums
are doing excellent and unselfish work under difficult conditions, and if a man prefers to
buy a first-class wireless set, rather than purchase his own parts and assemble the
components, that is a matter for his own pocket and convenience; but I know which method
gives the greatest information concerning wireless.
And what are my convictions-I refuse to call them beliefs-concerning the whole subject?
Firstly, I am satisfied that man is a spiritual being: that he has come into this world for the
purpose of gaining experience and building character. Life here is a sort of trial trip, which
will presently enable us to take our places in the real life beyond. This earthly experience is
only the prelude to life, and in this sense it is true that we don't really begin living until we
are dead! I am satisfied from my talks with the departed that death works no immediate
change in character or ability. At death man passes into another life with the mental and
spiritual equipment he has assembled here. No creed has any advantage over any other
(save in so far as such creed may have influenced the type of life he lived here). As to the
nature of the life that obtains in the next world, I could say much, did time permit.
64
DEATH IS, NOT A TERMINUS--BUT A JUNCTION.
I believe with Mr. Gladstone that the study of this subject "is the most important work
that is being done in the world." For there are two things sure for every one of us: first, that
we have each come into this world, and secondly, that we must all go out of it. Our life
here is a brief span of seventy years: comparatively, a mere speck upon the sun of eternity.
The man who boasts that he is practical, because he devotes the whole of his attention to
this life, is really the most shortsighted of persons, since the number of his days here, bears
but a fragmentary relationship to his actual life. I am convinced that there is a spiritual
world, which exists around us ‘’like an atmosphere." It is peopled by those who die. Death
is not a terminus! It is merely a junction where we change to another line. And at that
junction we shall find that nine-tenths of the luggage which we have accumulated here--is
sheer lumber.
What, then, will death mean to me? Well, it will mean the dropping of my physical body;
but there are certain things about me which are not physical. My character and personality
differentiate me from all other people. These cannot be expressed in terms of physics,
mechanics or chemistry. My memories, which are the result of my experience, are surely as
great a part of me as my hands or my feet. So that if I drop all the physical substances by
which I am known to my fellows, I still retain these.
THERE IS A SPIRITUAL BODY.
Now it is the tendency of all life to express itself in form, and I believe that when I die I
shall still have a form. The fact is that the spiritual body does not come into existence at
death. It is our constant companion during life, and we build it, in somewhat the same
manner as we build our physical body: namely, by feeding it, though with different food. I
believe that from the moment of conception the spiritual energies which exist within the
ego of each of us, build our bodies. The life germ in a fertile egg uses the rest of the
contents of the shell to build the body of the chicken. The ego, then, builds its own body,
though its action must be modified, first by its innate strength and power of selection, and
secondly, by the materials available. The same principle is at work in the etheric body,
which will be the body in which I shall find myself after death. These two bodies have a
great similarity, since they are the habitual expression of the same individual.
In certain hypnotic phenomena, and under the influence of certain drugs, a man can easily
find himself floating in space and looking down on his body on the bed. Now! If he is
looking on, what is that on the bed? If he is lying on the bed, who is the looker-on? "There
is a natural body and there is a spiritual body," says Paul. Death is merely the separation of
these two bodies. During life there is reaction between the two, which varies with different
people. Just as the caterpillar passes into the chrysalis state and emerges as a butterfly, so
shall I presently drop this physical body to inhabit another, in many respects similar to this,
but giving me a larger range of action and consequently greater freedom. That's all death
means to me, and far from looking at it as something to dread, I look forward to it as a most
interesting adventure.
65
CREEDS COUNT FOR LITTLE.
I am convinced that the most important thing about this life is living it, with the recog-
nition that it is continuous. The whole of the testimony of the spirit people emphasises one
point: namely, that in the other life an individual gets his exact deserts, no more and no
less. It may be that "in My Father's house are many mansions," but everyone must equip
and furnish his own abode; and such equipment depends, not upon the creed he has
professed, but upon the life he has lived. While it is true that Spiritualism does much to
confirm and explain the phenomena and beliefs of all ages, in me there has grown up a
religious conviction based on present-day evidences. Spiritualism is my religion, my only
religion, and I have not felt the need of any other. It has answered the criticisms of my
intellect and satisfied the longings of my heart. In fact, if the whole of the records of the
past were destroyed and erased from human memory (though I should be the last to desire
such a thing), it could not affect my religious convictions in the slightest degree. There are
thousands of people in this country in the same position.
I shall be glad, as far as my time will allow, to help and advise anyone who desires to
seriously pursue this investigation. But please do not ask me to recommend mediums. All
private sittings with mediums are illegal, and render the medium - however honest - liable
to three months hard labour! Under the present law of England, honest mediumship is
penalised, whilst the charlatan and pretender flourish. The law, too, is not impartially ad-
ministered. In some cities people may do as they like. In others, they can scarcely move.
Spiritualists are the only religious denomination in this country who are denied religious
freedom.
I should be the last in the world to decry other faiths. "Let every man be persuaded in his
own mind." As long as there are different types of mind in the world, there will be different
outlooks.
I personally accept the principles laid down by the Spiritualists' National Union -- the
representative body of Spiritualist Churches of which I was honoured to be the President
for a number of years. These principles may be briefly summarised as follows: -
Spiritualists accept (1) The Fatherhood of God; (2) The brotherhood of man; (3) Con-
tinuous existence of the soul; (4) the Communion of saints and the ministry of angels; (5)
Personal Responsibility; (6) Compensation and retribution here or hereafter for all good or
evil done on earth; and (7) a path of endless progress open to every soul. These seven
principles constitute no creed or dogma, since to every individual is granted the right of
personal interpretation.
In conclusion, I believe with Victor Hugo that "When I go down to the grave I can say like
many others I have finished my day's work; but I cannot say I have finished my life. My
day will begin again the next morning. The tomb is not a blind alley, but a thoroughfare. I
shall close my eyes upon the twilight, only to open them upon the dawn.’’
At the close of the talk ten minutes were devoted to questions and answers, the questions
being put by "An Enquirer".
ENQUIRER: Thank you very much, Mr. Oaten. What you say is extraordinarily
interesting. The first thing I should like you to clear up is this. You said at the beginning of
66
your talk, it seemed to me that the whole of religion turned upon the question of whether
there is or is not an after-life. There you were speaking of your belief at a time when you
were a young man and hadn't yet come across Spiritualism. Am I right in thinking that
those words could STILL be used to describe your belief about the nature of religion? In
fact, what exactly do you mean when you say that Spiritualism is your religion, and that
you haven't felt the need of any other?
MR. E. W. OATEN: Yes! My conviction still remains that religion rests definitely upon
whether or not there is a life beyond this. It is not an accident that all great religions insist
on life hereafter. What does salvation mean if there is not something to be saved from and
something to be saved for? The existence of God and the fact of a future life seem to me
interdependent. Thus the evidence of future life- its progressive development under more
congenial conditions than those of earth; the necessity of developing abilities and
characteristics which will be of use to us in that life; the interdependence of all humanity;
the necessity for mutual service, and the recognition of a beneficent love as a guiding factor
in all life; seem to me to embody the essentials of religion: and one cannot be in
communication with advanced spirits without getting these convictions. My religion does
not depend chiefly upon what has happened but upon what is happening.
ENQUIRER: Another thing you said was that "the existence of a spiritual world forms the
preamble of all the great religions." Now do you believe that the question whether or not
there is a spiritual world is the same question as whether or not there is an after-life?
MR. OATEN: Yes! I believe these two conceptions are but phases of one problem. I would
rather say spiritual worlds than a spiritual world. But the two ideas are in my opinion
inseparable.
ENQUIRER. When you said that Spiritualism had left you without a shred of doubt as to
your eternal future, did you mean by the word `eternal ’- going on for ever and ever? And
in the same way when you said 'Our life here is a brief span of seventy years:
comparatively a mere speck upon the sun of eternity,' did you mean by eternity 'a very, very
long time, prolonged indefinitely backwards into the past and forwards into the future’? Or
did you mean by the word eternal 'out of time altogether?'
MR. OATEN: The abstruse philosopher and the mystic may be able to conceive of eternity
as something outside of, and different from time: but the generality of listeners certainly
cannot. Hence it is convenient and I think logical to speak of eternity in terms of endless
time - both backwards and forwards. There may be only an "eternal now." In the light of
my knowledge I cannot imagine life coming to an end. I believe I shall always continue to
be and to grow: and as each step on the stair enlarges my range of attainment I shall be safe
within the orbit - or the arms - of a Benevolent, All-Wise Purpose, i. e., God.
ENQUIRER: Why is it that you believe in the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of
man? I mean, is it Spiritualism that has taught you to hold those beliefs? And would you be
a Spiritualist at all, if you didn’t hold them?
MR. OATEN: I accept the Fatherhood of God because I can only understand the
phenomena of nature on the assumption of an all-pervading intelligence behind and within
all things -displaying infinite wisdom and beneficent purpose and operating through
unchanging law. Thus I believe that there is only one life in the universe, of which we are
67
each an individualised expression. Hence when we know ourselves we shall find that we
are all knitted together within the common bond of a benevolent purpose. That is what
Spiritualism has taught me, and in doing so has changed my whole outlook on life. It im-
plies Fatherhood and Brotherhood, since `all are but parts of one stupendous whole, whose
body Nature is, and God the soul."
ENQUIRER: Mr. Oaten, do you think we all OUGHT to be Spiritualists? That is to say,
have we a positive duty to believe in Spiritualism, or is it a matter of taste?
MR. OATEN: "To thine own self be true--and it shall follow as the night the day-thou
canst not then be false to any man."
There is no moral obligation on any man to proclaim himself a Spiritualist until personal
experience justifies (or demands) such declaration--to neglect to do so when conviction is
established is cowardice. It may be a matter of choice as to when we shall - by search -
arrive at that position, but I am personally convinced that here or hereafter the acceptance
of the position is inevitable, since ultimately truth must prevail.
ENQUIRER: You said that you were satisfied that ‘’man has come into this world for the
purpose of gaining experience and building character." What do you mean by
"experience?" Experience of the next world as well as experience of this world? And
there's another thing --does Spiritualism teach us what kind of character we ought to build,
and how to go about building it?
MR. OATEN: McDougall has suggested that consciousness and experience are best viewed
as synonymous, with which I agree. Life here affords us an opportunity of gaining
experience in association with matter. The lessons learnt therefrom establish convictions
which determine the moral and spiritual reactions which we know as character.
Spiritualism has taught me the nature of the future life and the characteristics which will be
of value there - thus indicating what it is wise to establish and what to restrain. I don't
always live up to it - but I try!
ENQUIRER: There's an interesting remark about Spirits which the philosopher Hobbes
made in the 17th Century, and I should like to know what you would say to it: -"If this
superstitious fear of spirits were taken away, and with it, prognostiques from dreams, false
prophecies and many other things depending thereon, by which crafty ambitious persons
abuse the simple people, men would be much more fitted than they are for civil obedience."
That's what Hobbes said. I should like you to tell me this: -Does Spiritualism make men
more or less anxious than before to get the unemployed to work and abolish the slums and
so on?
MR. OATEN: Well, we are not living in the seventeenth century now, and it is not now a
question of superstition. Modern Spiritualism is based on scientific observation of facts.
There was no such Spiritualism in Hobbes' time. Spiritualism takes in the Brotherhood of
Man as one of its fundamentals. It thus becomes a binding obligation and imperative duty
to strive for the abolition of all things which hinder the attainment of the fullest and richest
life for every man, woman and child. Unemployment, slums, disease, and ignorance, which
hinder or delay the attainment of the full life of mutual service must be swept away, both in
the interest of this world and that of the future state. The two worlds depend on one
another.
68
Taken from the booklet: What I Believe: (Spiritualism) The First Broadcast Talk On
Spiritualism, by Ernest W. Oaten.1934. Published by The Two Worlds Publishing Co., Ltd.
Manchester. U.K.
………………………………………………
According to “Light” April 20th
1934, the talk lasted almost exactly 20 minutes. On the Sunday
following at the Queens Hall service of the Marylebone Spiritualist Association, London,. Ernest
Oaten spoke to a gathering of two thousand people, and he made mention of the fact that the BBC
made no attempt to censor the text. But he stressed that he would not be satisfied until a Spiritualist
service was broadcast, as “we are entitled to be represented amongst the religious communities.
It may be noted that in the broadcast the seven principles of the S.N.U., were slightly different to
what is advertised today. Also pointed out by Oaten on the seven principles was that the individual
is granted the right of personal interpretation which has since been amended by the Spiritualists’
National Union. Reference to these remarks will be made in a later Newsletter.
Paul J. Gaunt.
………………………………………………..
NEW AUSTRALIAN DOCTORATE
Recently the Parapsychology Foundation announced:
THE FRANCES P. BOLTON FELLOWSHIP WAS AWARDED on March 1st, 2006 to Dr.
Heather Wolffram who received her PhD in 2005 from the University of Queensland in
Australia. Her doctoral dissertation is entitled "On the Borders Of Science: Psychical
Research and Parapsychology in Germany, 1870-1939" and was awarded by the School of
History, Philosophy, Religion and Classics at Queensland
We must hope that this thesis, which uses the archives of Freiburg among others, finds a
publisher.
Postgraduate qualifications in parapsychology were relatively scarce in the UK before1975,
by which time Edinburgh’s parapsychology training was up and running; Adrian Parker
being first to obtain his doctorate there in 1977. Michael Thalbourne, who was to become
eminent in Australian parapsychology, received his doctorate from Edinburgh in 1981.
Harvey Irwin, likewise eminent in Australia, researched cognitive processes for his
doctorate at the University of New England, Armidale, Australia.
Among more recent Australian postgraduate developments:
Lance Storm obtained a PH.D. in parapsychology from the University of Adelaide in 2003.
He continues to work there with Michael Thalbourne in an anomalous psychology unit.
(Anomalous psychology is a currently fashionable term used by psychical researchers,
especially in universities, now that other terms have been rather spoilt by non-qualified
people. Anyone, for example, can claim to be a “ Parapsychologist.”, just as anyone can
claim to be a “ Spiritualist”. )
69
Hannah Jenkins is a Ph.D. PhD Candidate in the School of Philosophy, University of
Tasmania. Her title is” Beyond Beliefs: an analysis of science, anomalous phenomena and
explanation theory” This is explained as follows.”: Psi has for centuries been treated as a
supernatural phenomenon and the relatively recent transition of psi to that of a paranormal
phenomenon indicates that psi should be treated as a valid natural phenomenon worthy of
explanation like any other. There is consequently a tension between the body of evidence
for psi and the lack of a theory, which explains psi that is acceptable to mainstream science.
An historical understanding of where explanation for psi has been sought is central to
understanding how to resolve the tension between the evidence and lack of theory.”
L.P
…………………………………………………….
MAGICAL WRITER CENSORED
Some of the books of Ernest Butler, a leading English magician of the twentieth century
were censored on publisher’s instructions.
This is apparent from letters written by the Rev. W.E. Butler (Ernest) to his friend, the Rev.
E.W. Butler (Edwin). They are part of the Edwin Butler papers, now being sorted by this
Newsletter, following Edwin’s passing in 2005.
The two Butlers, though not related, had in common several factors.
1) they met and were influenced by Dion Fortune in their youth.
2) they were both ordained, Ernest in the Liberal Catholic Church and Edwin in the
Congregationalist tradition. Ernest was ordained sub conditioned into the priesthood
of the LCC at St. Mary’s Liberal Catholic Pro-Cathedral in Caledonian Road,
London at 10.30 am on Saturday June 9th
1956. Edwin was ordained to the
Christian ministry at Haywards Heath Congregational Church on Saturday October
7th
1944.
3) they were both Spiritualists in their outlook.
In an interview with Mike Howard of Prediction in August 1976, Ernest recalled that as
young man already studying hypnotism, he would cycle from his home in Weybridge to a
South London Spiritualist church where one night he attended a talk by Robert King on
past lives, who told him” We have met before, not in this life, though”. King, whose
messages also influenced the Theosophist A.P. Sinnett, became a mentor to Ernest.
Ernest was active on Spiritualist platforms for some years, but on 3.9.56, he wrote to Edwin
from Southampton “ Under the direction of my own inner plane friends, I have
discontinued public clairvoyance. This has resulted in some cancellations, though most of
the churches round here still welcome me on the platform – but not at such frequent
intervals as heretofore.”
70
On 21.4.59, Ernest wrote “For myself, I am withdrawing from the Movement. My term in
this incarnation draws nearer its ending, and I want to get some more useful work in before
I go upstairs. My first little book has just gone into its second edition, and the second book
is now in the Press.”
But here a problem was to arise, for as he wrote to Edwin 13.1.68.
“When I see some of the tripe ( if one may insult a very tasty dish) which is being churned
out by the vanity publishers, I feel like crying “ The literature of Spiritualism, forsooth”!
Just at the moment really good books which go more deeply into the theology which lies
behind the teachings received from the Other Side are noticeable by their absence.”
He added: “ I’m stuck by my publishers and readers with the magical side of things –
though I have managed to get three 20,000 word booklets on the production belt……All
three have been produced under a strict ruling from my publishers that I must not bring the
Spiritualistic ideas in at all! “
“So any Spiritualists reading “ How to develop clairvoyance “ will be sure he is reading
the equivalent of “ Hamlet” with all references to the Prince of Denmark cut out! Which
should lead to some acrimonious reviews from the “Psychic News” and “Two Worlds
boys. Good for sales, I suppose.”
The two ordained Butlers also exchanged views on the nature of the Christian Atonement,
so that it would be difficult to say who influenced whom. LP.
…………………………………….
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web
site www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “ Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “ Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail. Psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt.
