{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v2_n5_may_2006.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V2 N5 May 2006","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul Gaunt
Volume 2, No 5; May 2006
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
The error that changed history – Paul J. Gaunt. 93
W. Lorraine Haig – The Two Worlds. 101
The Problem of Swedenborg - Leslie Price. 102
Keighley celebration 1882. 105
William Howitt in Australia – Mrs Howitt Watts. 107
Dion Fortune biography to be revised. 110
The Divine Anna. 111
Transition on Dr. Forbes Winslow. 112
How to obtain this Newsletter by email. 112
………………………………………………
THE S.N.U.’S SEVEN PRINCIPLES OF
SPIRITUALISM
THE ERROR THAT CHANGED HISTORY
“Only by first destroying error can you clear the foundations on which to build the
edifice of truth.” Arthur Findlay.
………………….
Extract from Lecturette H. 20: The History of Modern Spiritualism – The Scientific
Foundations of Modern Spiritualism, by Ernest Thompson, page 62. 1948. Published
by The Two Worlds Publishing Company Ltd. Manchester:
The Need for Education
The first churches were formed around the work of local mediums who, in the
majority of cases, had not had the benefit of an education which would have made
them suitable instruments for the interpretation of the philosophy which their spirit
guides wished to give to the people. The need for educating them, and others who
were willing to prepare their speeches and deliver normal addresses, was eventually
realised. Classes and Discussion Groups were encouraged and later a scheme for the
certification of recognised speakers and mediums was initiated. Examinations were
held and diplomas issued. Subsequently, in conjunction with the British Spiritualists'
Lyceum Union, a more elaborate educational scheme was organised by Mr. A. T.
Connor, and the National Spiritualist College came into existence. It lasted only a
few years however. A further scheme was later formulated and put into operation by
Mr. Percy Wilson. On September 6th, 1946, Mr. Ernest Thompson, Education
93
Secretary, published in The Two Worlds proposals for a new "Education Scheme"
which provided education for all types of workers, and also included the ordinary
membership of the Union. This is the scheme at present in operation.
In October 1946 Ernest Thompson (c.1905-1968) instigated a National Education
scheme for the Spiritualists’ National Union. By July 1949 Thompson had written
and completed 150 Lecturettes (approx 200,000 words) and had also prepared the
comprehensive syllabus which provided the framework of the S.N.U. education
courses.
Initially, there were eight basic text books that were approved by the National
Council, as the foundation for the national education scheme. The authors of these
books were Andrew Jackson Davis, Hudson Tuttle, Stainton Moses, Arthur Findlay,
W. H. Evans, and the Lyceum manual. (You will note that these are not all National
Spiritualists). By November 1950, there were twenty two text books carefully chosen
and approved by the S.N.U., offering a wide range of courses from beginner to
officer, with a complete syllabus, drafted and printed which was to be circulated
amongst members and churches.
Education was the main theme for the S.N.U. conference on July 2nd 1949, in
Edinburgh, under the presidency of Mr. W Lorraine Haig. The focus was on larger,
but fewer, churches as it was perceived that the churches were splitting into small bits
creating a greater demand on speakers and demonstrators, hence lowering the
standards. The S.N.U. could not cope with these extra demands, thus the need for
emphasising the bonuses of an all round education scheme.
The president emphasised A Spiritualist’s College: If we wish to achieve fully our
plans in the future, we must have a training centre ‘a place of our own’ so to speak,
where every phase of our work will be taught by qualified teachers. A place where
men and women – for the outlay of an amount of money within their reach or of the
Society who may sponsor them – can attend for special courses.
In this – for lack of a special name – “College for the Advancement of Psychic
Science,” there will be courses for speakers, development classes for mediums,
classes for Spiritualists who want to specialise in any suitable subject. Short Summer
courses for those who require further tuition, i.e., Presidents and Executives alike.
Indeed, all the subjects coming under the heading of “Psychic Science” will be part
of the curriculum. Great is the need for such a college. Haig continued I am certain
that within the next twenty-five years a “College for Psychic Science” will be
established in this country, and with that faith I am trying today to prepare the mind
of the membership to be ready, when the time comes, to grasp the great opportunity
with both hands. Yes! grasp it with both hands, so that we may make this “Place of
our Own’ a model for all the countries in the world to imitate, and at the same time,
make it a living memorial to the souls whose work and goodwill will be responsible
for bringing it about. (1)
This boost of comprehensive studies in all areas of the Spiritualist Movement was a
worthy move by the Union, creating a more informed knowledge of their religion and
an understanding of its phenomena and history. The churches were encouraged, (there
were around 500 S.N.U. churches in Britain in 1950) to arrange discussion groups
94
using the Thompson lecturettes, and hopefully to persuade enquirers to join their local
SNU church.
All members were expected, however, to accept “The Seven Principles of
Spiritualism” It was deemed fair that the new member should be persuaded to take a
course of at least eight lectures, so the new member would understand the religious
principles they were accepting and acquire a rudimentary knowledge of Spiritualism.
The recommended lecturettes consisted of the Phenomena and Mediumship, the
Seven Principles and the Spirit World. These, I believe formed the “Beginner’s
Course”.
Ernest Thompson had succeeded Ernest Oaten in 1945 as editor of “The Two Worlds”
then based at Manchester, Thompson also published his lecturettes in this weekly
paper and created a firm public awareness that “Education Is the Greatest Need of
Our Movement”. He marked November 18th
as Education Day in 1950. (2)
But with all the good work that Thompson did by his National Education
Scheme he made a serious error, that has, to this day, changed the factual history
of the “The Seven Principles” He wrongly referred to ‘The 1871 Cleveland Hall’,
lecture in London on April 30th
“The Creed of the Spirits, and the Influence of the
Religion of Spiritualism.” which had been delivered by Emma Hardinge Britten.
On April 15th
1950, under his editorship, Thompson printed a large article in “The
Two Worlds” claiming a psychic relationship between Robert Owen and Emma
Hardinge Britten. This was either a serious error, or a misleading account of what had
actually been recorded on the day and published by James Burns in “The Medium and
Daybreak.” (3)
Thompson stated that: “The Seven Principles of the Spiritualists’ National Union
were given in 1871 by Robert Owen through the mediumship of Mrs. Emma Hardinge
Britten.” In fact there had originally been no previous suggestion of Emma
Hardinge Britten being under any influence while giving the basis of her
creed/principles.
This serious error was now embedded in the ‘New Education Scheme’ under
Lecturette R. 19. But it is quite evident in the 1871 Cleveland Hall speech what
Britten says as to her four Principles that she gives:
You have heard some of them in past discourses; you may apply those to the results
which I now offer.
1) I believe in God
2) I believe in the immortality of the human soul
3) I believe in right and wrong
4) I believe in the communion of spirits as ministering angels.
The philosophy behind these four principles (which was given with each principle) for
some reason, has not been carried forward or used by the S.N.U.
95
EHB makes the statement directly after this submission: These are some of the points
of my creed, and all of them I have proved.
It is interesting to note that earlier in this lecture she refers to the now first two
principles of the S.N.U.
Spiritualism is wholly unselfish. It proclaimed from the first the fatherhood of God -
that you all admit; and with it the brotherhood of man - and that you don’t admit.
Note that her fourth principle was “I believe in the communion of spirits as
ministering angels”, Thompson again made a slip by substituting spirits for saints in
“Two Worlds”. Moreover, according to Thompson, Owen via Britten’s mediumship
gave a summary of six principles, to which a seventh was added later “The
communion of spirits and the ministry of angels” (as it reads now). In fact she gave
the basis of this in 1871.
So, not to cover the same ground, may I refer the reader to my original article some
years ago on the formation of the Seven Principles available at
www.woodlandway.org under - Journal Archive.
Ernest Thompson was an inspiration to Modern Spiritualism as an editor, writer and
through his great contribution to the S.N.U. education scheme. He was the second
worker to have earned the highest and most prestigious award by the Union in the
form of a Fellowship, (F.S.N.U.), received in 1949. (Interestingly, Mr. A.T. Connor
was the first to achieve this award in 1948, for his thesis on the Seven Principles; he
had been the founder of the education scheme in the 1920’s.)
Thompson founded the Newcastle Psychical Research Institute in 1945; at this time
he was president of the Heaton National Spiritualist Church, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. In
1946 he was a founder and first president of the Manchester Spiritualist Church.
……………………………………………..
Philosophy and Ethics Committee complete
their investigation into
“Origins of the seven principles of spiritualism”
At the 2004 AGM of the Spiritualists’ National Union, a report on the “Origins of the
Seven Principles of Spiritualism” was made available. The Philosophy and Ethics
Committee (formerly the Spiritual and Ethics Committee) investigation was
concentrated on the two main players, the medium and the communicator.
The paper correctly stated at the onset that in Emma Hardinge Britten’s
Autobiography (1900) there are various references to the principles. The report
surmised these statements could indicate Owen was influencing Emma prior to the
1871 principle speech. This may well have been the case, however, Robert Owen
(1771-1858) in some of the examples given, was very much alive. As Emma
96
Hardinge Britten clearly mentions in her 1871 lecture when referring to her principles:
You have heard some of them in past discourses; you may apply those to the results
which I now offer.
Mentioned also in their report is a séance (given between 1861-1865, the period of the
American Civil War) with Emma Hardinge (who married William Britten in 1870), at
the home of Daniel and Anne Leah Underhill (the eldest Fox sister) in which there is
recorded a communication with the spirit of Robert Owen. Through the mediumship
of Hardinge, Robert Owen gave Ten Spiritual Commandments, followed by Ten
Laws of Right. However these are not printed in E.H.B.’s autobiography, and
suprisingly Robert Dale Owen, son of Robert Owen who was in attendance at the
séance, makes no mention of his father’s communication in his book, ‘The Debatable
Land’ 1872, although he gives a narrative on other séances at Daniel and Anne Leah
Underhill’s home.
In the Committee’s report, they print the Ten Spiritual Commandments, and the Ten
Laws of Right. These statements are taken from the 1887 Lyceum manual, but this is
not as clear cut as they suggest. There is no indication in the Manual that these were
given by Robert Owen only that they were given by the spirits through Mrs. Emma
Hardinge Britten. (Note the addition of Britten to Hardinge; this could suggest they
were given after 1870.) I do not have access to the 1st
edition of the manual, but in
the editions I have consulted, the Ten Spiritual Commandments and Ten Laws of
Right are under the Golden Chain Recitations sections 109, 110. These consist of
questions and answers, or short sentences on some spiritual, moral, or instructive
subject, read alternately by the conductor and the whole Lyceum. (1921 and 1992
editions)
I suggest that any confusion with Commandments and Laws of Right may well lie in
the texts of Emma Hardinge Britten’s autobiography. Information could have been
wrongly imputed by her sister, Mrs. Margaret Wilkinson, who acted as editor and
publisher to the printing in 1900, following E.H.B.’s death in 1899. The
autobiography states: “The medium then commenced speaking slowly, but
emphatically, and with two corrections only from the controlling spirit, who spelt out
by raps the words he wished to substitute, there were given ten Spiritual
Commandments, and ten laws of right.”
I believe that this should perhaps only read Ten Laws of Right. I suggest that E.H.B.
did not receive these Ten Spiritual Commandments until 1871 when she publicly read
the Ten Spiritual Commandments for the first time on the evening of April 30th
1871.
These Commandments were reported as a supplement to the lecture entitled ‘The
Creed of the Spirits and the Influence of the Religion of Spiritualism’, printed in
Medium and Daybreak on 5th
May 1871 as given to E.H.B. on April 29th
1871 which
she reportedly wrote in a very rapid manner under the influence of Robert Owen and
orated as a supplement to the lecture, April 30th
1871.
It is important to note the insertion of the Ten Spiritual Commandments was a
supplement to her 1871 lecture and is reported in the same edition as her principle
lecture. It is only at this point that the names of Britten and Owen coincide with each
other and one can see how it could be wrongly recorded or changed. Moreover, the
lecture contains reference to the Biblical Ten Commandments which should not be
97
confused with the supplemental post- lecture oration of Robert Owen’s Ten Spiritual
Commandments.
On Monday morning (1st
May), E.H.B., gave James Burns the manuscript and
copyright to publish the Ten Spiritual Commandments. Together with her four
principles as given in her lecture, these were printed in James Burns Seed Corn series
(no.5.) and used as handouts to promote Spiritualism (and, no doubt, Burns ‘Spiritual
Institution’ in London) at a cost of one shilling per 100. ‘The ten Laws of Right’ were
also printed in Burns’ Seed Corn series, but is unclear under which number these were
printed.
James Burns was a pioneer of the early British Lyceum movement. This may give
some clue as to how the Ten Spiritual Commandments and the Ten Laws of Right
became part of the original manual in 1887.
The 2004 Committee report continues that in 1871 Six Principles communicated from
spirit by Robert Owen through the mediumship of Mrs Emma Hardinge Britten, which
she termed a SUMMARY of HER FAITH. This is a strong indication that the original
documentation had not been consulted by the Philosophy and Ethics Committee; if so
the report would clearly show that there were only four, not six, as in the original
lecture of 1871; also Emma did not refer to the Summary of her Faith, this
terminology came much later in the 1880s.
Throughout the report it appears that no fresh research has been done by the
Committee since the occurrence of the errors by Thompson, and the historic facts of
what actually was said and when have not been fully investigated. Interestingly in the
Committee’s conclusion it states: “It is difficult to find precise documented evidence
of the time and date when the Principles were communicated to Emma Hardinge
Britten although it is generally accepted as being circa 1871”. “Whether there were 5
or 6 originally is open to speculation. There is no doubt that the way books and
periodicals of the day laid out what they say was communicated came down to a
comma or a capital letter being in the right place”
In 2001-2 I sent, on two occasions, all the original 1871 documentation to two
consecutive Chairs of the S.N.U. Education Committee. I offered also to forward the
same to the Spiritual and Ethics Committee (as it was then called). On all occasions I
received no acknowledgment or request for more information. (However, the same
information was forwarded to the S.N.U. President who kindly obliged me with a
reply.)
With this report on the origins of the Seven Principles by the Philosophy and Ethics
Committee, one would have expected an in depth inquiry. To suggest that precise
documentation is difficult to find is a somewhat futile excuse for leaving their history
uncorrected.
Yet in their report conclusion it is also stated: What is indisputable and the evidence
is there for all to read if they desire to research the archives is that the Principles
were communicated to Emma Hardinge Britten and the communicator was Robert
Owen………..
98
The report only really goes as far back to 1887 into the origins of the Seven
Principles, giving no detail on 1871. (In 1888, or earlier, E.H.B. made available her
principles for possible use to various organisations like the Newcastle Spiritual
Evidence Society. Her principles were eventually taken up in 1890 at the National
Conference of British Spiritualists; which later became the S.N.U. - See Psypioneer
Vol.1. No. 18: Emma Hardinge Britten and the National Federation of Spiritualists.)
In The Medium and Daybreak April 20th
1883 E.H.B. publicly replied to an attack on
Spiritualism by a Reverend Skewes. She ends the debate with her principles:
1) I believe in the Fatherhood of God;
2) The Brotherhood of Man;
3) The Immortality of the Soul;
4) Personal Responsibility Here and Hereafter;
5) And, Eternal Progress.
It will be noted that at this point in 1883, there are still only five principles. Britten
clearly uses her creeds as movable statements open to the adaptability of change and
growth; changes she apparently adopted throughout the years. This was apparent even
from her 1871 lecture when she produces the original four creeds/principles and
stated: You have heard some of them in past discourses; you may apply those to the
results which I now offer.
This is verified in her autobiography; for example in a New York lecture on 12th
July
1857, she mentions ‘my own personal responsibility both here and hereafter, for all
the good or evil I have ever done on earth’ (Page 52). However this was not in the
form of a statement - it was more from her perspective. Although the Committee’s
report suggests at this early stage of 1857 Robert Owen’s influence on her, I fail to
see any link. Also Owen was still alive until 1858.
The simple truth is that Robert Owen did not give the basis of the Seven
Principles of the Spiritualists’ National Union. An error by Ernest Thompson –
and a negative investigation from the S.N.U. - has resulted in serious errors still
remaining within the S.N.U.’s education system. As the S.N.U.’s Religion and
Religious Philosophy are based upon the Seven Principles, its history needs to be
placed on a firm FACTUAL foundation.
I have recently found a letter in response to Maurice Barbanell by Percy Wilson, who
was the chairman of the Exponents and Education Committee in 1941, taking the
directorship of Psychic News in 1945 and in 1950 becoming president (1950 – 1953)
of the S.N.U. This is reprinted below.
The Seven Principles
“I am grateful for your attempt to help me elucidate the origin of the Seven Principles
by your reference to Emma Hardinge Britten's address at Cleveland Hall on April 30,
1871.
99
I have long been aware of this address (I have a copy of a report of it before me as I
write this letter) and your reference to it makes me wonder whether you have ever
read it. For it contains no mention of Seven (or Six) Principles, no reference to Robert
Owen, and no implication that at the time she delivered it she was under special
inspiration from the spirit world.
Its title, it is true, was “The Creed of the Spirits, and the Influence of the Religion of
Spiritualism," but it deals more with the second part than with the rest.
As regards the Creed, this is what it says: "I believe in God. I believe in the
immortality of the human soul. I believe in right and wrong. I believe in the
communion of spirits as ministering angels."
It then goes on to say "These are some of the Points of my creed, and all of them I
have proved. But I do not pause here. I am living in a workaday world, and I am told
that if my rule of life, as it is called, is taken from me that if my scriptures and my
gospel, my creeds and my faith are removed from me, I shall be a ship at sea without
an anchor. I recall a portion of these teachings, and I find them enunciated in the
form of Ten Commandments..."
This is clearly Emma the propagandist, for she goes on in her inimitable iconoclastic
fashion to describe how self-styling Christians carry out these commandments.
My references above have been taken from the issue of "Medium and Daybreak" for
May 5, 1871. The report ends with these words "It is our purpose to close by reading
in brief the Ten Commandments of a work-a-day spirits..." but the Editor evidently did
not consider them sufficient importance to report.
I myself have searched through periodicals from 1871 onwards, but until the opening
of the Oldham Spiritual Temple in 1887 there does not appear to be anything which
can reasonably be construed as the basis of the Seven Principles; and nowhere have I
seen the name of Robert Owen mentioned in any account of these early days as the
inspirer of these principle,
Percy Wilson, 3 Sheridan Road, London, S.W. 19.”
………………………………………………
This letter was printed in ‘The Two Worlds’, December, 26th
1953 page 8. This letter
was in response to a comment by Maurice Barbanell in his ‘All Worlds Are One’ in
‘The Two Worlds’ December 19th
, 1953 page 4.
Help For Percy
"ALTHOUGH undoubtedly Emma Hardinge Britten claimed to have received them
(the seven Principles) by inspiration from the spirit world, I can find no evidence that
Robert Owen was the inspirer. The first time I ever saw that suggestion was in a
comparatively recent article in Two Worlds, and no authority was given."
These words were written in “Psychic News" last week by Percy Wilson, its managing
director. A similar statement was printed on October 29, 1932, in "Psychic News," 21
100
years ago. More recently it was stated in Two Worlds on April 22 1950: "The Seven
Principles were originally given through the mediumship of Mrs. Britten by the spirit
of Robert Owen in the Cleveland Hall, London, on April 30, 1871 ".
I have obtained a copy of Psychic News of the above date and again in Barbanell’s
‘All Worlds Are One’ column he mentions while talking about Emma Hardinge
Britten, It was she who obtained from Robert Owen, who had passed on, the Seven
Principles of Spiritualism, then six, but afterwards divided into seven parts. However
three weeks earlier in Psychic News October 8th
1932 there is a double page entitled
‘The Seven Principles and What They Mean’ by Harry Boddington, this is part of a
series, ‘The University of Spiritualism’ which was later published in book form some
years later in 1947 under the same title. Boddington makes the same psychic link
between Owen and Britten but does not give any details of any research.
Ernest Thompson was not the first to make the error, that Owen through Britten, gave
six principles. Whether or not Thompson based his finding on Boddington’s ‘The
University of Spiritualism’ we shall not know; but we do know by the evidence and
original documentation that Robert Owen did not give the Principles through Emma
Hardinge Britten as is asserted by The Spiritualists’ National Union.
…………………………………………..
(1) The S.N.U. Conference in Edinburgh (Forty Seventh A.G.M., of the S.N.U.) Haigs address was
printed verbatim over a number of issues of The Two Worlds. This portion was taken from page 229
July 22nd
1949.
(2) The Two Worlds 11th
November 1950 page 1022/3.
(3) The Medium and Daybreak Vol. II. No. 57 May 5th
1871.
(4) Autobiography of Emma Hardinge Britten 1900 Published and Edited by Mrs. Margaret Wilkinson.
This has been re-published by SNU Publications (facsimile) in 1996. This section can be viewed at
www.woodlandway.org under Journal Archive.
Paul J. Gaunt.
……………………………………………………
Taken from ‘THE TWO WORLDS’ March 11th
1949. Page. 74.
Meet the S.N.U. National Council
W. LORRAINE HAIG (President)
We have great pleasure in presenting, as the fist instalment of a series of
biographical sketches of members of the S.N.U. National Council, a brief life story of
Mr. W. Lorraine Haig, President of the Spiritualists' National Union.
Born in January, 1891, he commenced his business career with a legal firm in
Glasgow, which involved a special training in secretarial work in London in 1909.
When the 1914-18 war I broke out he enlisted for the forces, and served in a well
101
known Highland Regiment. Returning to civil life, he was offered an appointment
with an office machine and equipment company, which ultimately led him to establish
a business of his own in 1923 and which has prospered ever since.
Public Service
The foregoing of course is merely his normal vocational background. Mr. Haig is
known to us, not in his business capacity, but as an ardent and sincere worker for his
fellow men. Altruistic motives dominate his life, for he maintained a constant interest
in social causes of various kinds until Spiritualism emerged, at an early date, as the
principal objective of his desire to serve others. From the age of 21 he became well
known as a lecturer, and as his work for the people became well known, his fellow
citizens elected him as their representative on the Glasgow Corporation.
His enthusiasm soon involved him in an avalanche of work, and at one time he had
committed himself to serve on no less than 32 committees. A special interest
developed in health services and he became the organiser of the first Glasgow
Housing Scheme, and a member of the Council of the Hutchinson Hospital. Education
was also a special interest at this time and he did valuable work for the Glasgow and
West of Scotland Commercial College. Meanwhile his qualities were being
recognised in the world of business, and he is now President-elect of the Typewriter
(and Allied) Trades Federation of Great Britain and Ireland.
Work for Spiritualism
Mr. Haig's interest in Spiritualism commenenced 26 years ago, when he joined the
Glasgow Association of Spiritualists. Soon he became a member of the committee,
leader of a circle, and later Vice-President. When the Glasgow Central Association
came into existence, he helped Mr. McIndoe to organise its activities and became
Vice-President. In the interval he had been elected to the Scottish District Council and
served as its Secretary for a number of years. Then came the promotion to Area
Representative on the National Council, together with election as President of the
S.G.S. Last year he became President of the S.N.U. at the Harrogate A.G.M. Mr. Haig
prefers chairmanship to public speaking and his outstanding ability in, this direction
has often been highly praised by his colleagues on the National Council.
………………………………………………………
THE PROBLEM OF SWEDENBORG
Emmanuel Swedenborg (1688-1772) is an unsolved problem for Spiritualists.
Superficially he can be hailed as a distinguished Swedish scientist who after some
remarkable spontaneous ESP experiences, developed an unparalleled mediumistic
capacity to receive material from the spiritual world. His concept of that other life was
to influence the birth of Modern Spiritualism greatly, documented recently in Bret
Carroll’s analysis “Spiritualism in Antebellum America” (Indiana University Press,
1997).
102
The psychic interpretation of Swedenborg is supported by experiences like this,
reported in his “Spiritual Diary” (para 4752):
“Polhem died on Monday. He spoke with me on Thursday; and when I was invited to
the funeral we saw his coffin, and those who were there, and the whole procession,
and also when he was laid in the grave; and, in the meantime, he spoke with me,
asking why they buried him when he was still alive; and he heard also when the priest
said that he would be resuscitated at the Last Judgement, and yet he had been
resuscitated for some time; and he marvelled that such a belief should exist when he
was still alive; and that the body should rise again when he himself was sensible of
being in a body; besides many other things.”
However closer study of Swedenborg, reveals a man of profound religious feelings
who in middle life underwent a spiritual crisis, and whose central preoccupations
were God, Christ, the Bible and other aspects of devotional life. It is no disrespect to a
great medium like Mrs Leonard, say, or Mrs Garrett, to say this is not their world,
though there are affinities with Stainton Moses and his religious arguments with
communicators.
Some Spiritualist thinkers have recognised the problem Thus Ernest Thompson wrote:
Swedenborg has given to man a great revelation and teaching of the nature of life in
the spiritual world and of the universality of Divine Providence. He does not however
propound these teachings as his own, but constantly affirms that he wrote under the
direction and guidance of the Lord, describing himself humbly as the ''Servant of the
Lord Jesus Christ."
I think that this claim that Jesus was his Spirit Guide can be accepted in the light
of modem Spiritualist knowledge and teachings, and provides a spiritual link with the
ancient order of psychic prophets known as the Order of Melchisedek in the following
order- Melchisedek, Abraham, Moses, Elijah , Jesus and Swedenborg. Each one
became the spiritual guide of the succeeding one.
(Spiritualism in the Evolution of Philosophy and Religion. 1950. The Two Worlds
Publishing Co. Ltd. p.47.)
Arthur Findlay observed:
The revelation which he thus believed he received from the Lord brought a new
religion into being Swedenborgianism - a mixture of Christianity and Spiritualism,
because he could not get away from his early orthodox training and, like the early
Jesuians, believed in divine spirits, angels and devils. The expressions he uses in his
writings resemble those of Saint Paul when writing about his own psychic
experiences. Fortunately for Swedenborg, the burning of wizards and witches was in
his day coming to an end, and he ranks as the first outstanding medium to be allowed
to live during the Christian era.
(The Curse of Ignorance p.440 Vol.2 1947. Psychic Press)
103
Are these reasonable assessments of Swedenborg? Some study of his writings, beyond
the most popular one “Heaven and Hell” seems desirable, and also a careful reading
of his life story. Fortunately, an outstanding new biography was published in 2005 by
the Swedenborg Society (www.swedenborg.org.uk). Entitled “Swedenborg’s Secret”
(£16.99) and written by retired Swedish diplomat Lars Bergquist, it is a 500 page
elegantly written survey of the main points of his life and work.
It becomes clear that Swedenborg, who was one of the leading scientists of his time,
became increasingly concerned with religious matters in the 1740s. This is apparent in
his journal of dreams and visions, especially (in Bergquist’s view) the great Easter
vision of 1744. “In a little while, I continued my prayer saying. “ Thou hast promised
to receive in grace all sinners: though canst not otherwise than keep thy words! In the
same moment, I was sitting in his bosom and beheld him face to face, a countenance
of a holy mien. All was such that I cannot describe..”.(p.167)
Like many people who have had profound religious experience, Swedenborg
attempted to put the disclosure into words. First came “The Worship and Love of
God” an unfinished account of Creation, based on both the latest science and the first
two chapters of Genesis. By 1745, he was convinced that God had appointed him to
explain the spiritual content of the Scriptures for humanity. His starting point was the
Book of Revelation which had been written by an earlier visionary, John of Patmos.
(p.226). He came to believe that judgement took place in the spiritual world in 1757.
The Second Coming would be a deepened understanding of the Christian message.
Findlay’s comparison with St. Paul is therefore a pertinent one, for both men were
recipients of transcendent revelation, and their paranormal experiences were
incidental to this. Ironically, Swedenborg was not an admirer of Paul’s letters. He
wrote his main work “Heavenly Secrets” about the inner meaning of the biblical
books, Genesis and Exodus. Bergquist notes that Swedenborg records meetings with
Paul in his “Spiritual Diary.” and was rather unimpressed by him, (p.312)
Swedenborg then was not a Spiritualist in the modern sense, and “The Lord” who
spoke to him was not experienced as a spirit guide, but as God in human form. But
Swedenborg was a scientist, and serious students of both mysticism and survival, like
David Lorimer and Michael Whiteman have reminded us that he is worthy of our
study. This new biography offers us an excellent beginning.
Leslie Price
…………………………………………
104
KEIGHLEY.
(Note by PP. In Psypioneer July 2004, we reprinted one of the
accounts (from 1874 Medium and Daybreak) collected by York historian
Gerald O’Hara which disputed the suggestion that Keighley was the first
Spiritualist church in Britain. (It was not a church.) Here is another
account, from LIGHT July 15 1882. An edited version of this account can
also be found in Britten “Nineteenth Century Miracles” p. 198
An event, unique in character, has recently transpired in this cosy little Yorkshire
town, which will long be remembered with pleasure by all concerned, marking as it
did the thirtieth anniversary of the introduction of Spiritualism into this country.
The celebration, for such in character was the event alluded to, was conceived and
executed by the committee and friends of the Keighley “Spiritual Brotherhood,” Mr.
John Pickles, the chairman, working energetically to that end, and being ably assisted
by Mr. J. Smith, the hon. Secretary. Indeed, so earnestly did all work that a most
successful issue was achieved. The proceedings consisted of a public tea and meeting
on Saturday, July 8th, and a series of two services on the day following, of which the
subjoined account presents the salient particulars.
The objects the Committee of Management had in view were the presentation of the
portraits of the three pioneer workers in the movement--viz., Messrs. John Wright,
Abraham Shackleton, and David Weatherhead; the two first-named persons, and the
family of the last-named gentleman, who has passed hence, being the recipients of the
gifts.
In 1853 Mr. David Richmond, then from the Shakers, of America, brought the
particulars of Spirit phenomena with him to this country, and, paying a visit to
Keighley, called upon Mr. David Weatherhead to present the matter to the attention of
that gentleman. As a result of the interview, a public meeting was held, at which table
manifestations were obtained, through mediums discovered in the body of the
audience, by Mr. Richmond, who delivered an explanatory address.
Mr. Weatherhead became convinced of the truth of Spirit intercourse, and at once
entered heartily into the matter, sparing neither time, pains, nor purse in his zeal. He
established the first printing press in the movement, printed the first English Spiritual
periodical, the Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph, and caused the circulation of
innumerable tracts, pamphlets, &., throughout the kingdom, and subsequently erected,
at his own expense, the comfortable and commodious building used by the Society at
the present time. He contentedly bore all the expenses involved, and during his
residence in the flesh was a true pillar of the cause.
Messrs. Wright and Shackleton were the two trance mediums developed in the early
days; they have literally grown grey in the work. Their labours have been free of
price, and as speakers, healers, and clairvoyants they have rendered valuable service
to the cause.
105
To do honour to these workers and to express the high esteem in which they were
held, the recent presentation was arranged. On Saturday the proceedings were opened
by a tea, at which a very large company sat clown. At seven o'clock the public
meeting was opened by the chairman, Mr. J. Clapham, who said:
“Ladies and gentlemen, we are met here to-night to show our gratitude to the late
Mr. Weatherhead, and also to Mr. Shackleton and Mr. Wright, for their past services.
Keighley was the place where Spiritualism was first promulgated in this country,
being introduced to us by Mr. David Richmond, of Darlington, who, with the
assistance of Mr. Weatherhead, was enabled to deliver three lectures upon the subject
in the Working Men's Hall, in June, 1853. The issues were, that Mr. Weatherhead
took steps which resulted in the formation of the Society which exists at the present
time, and soon afterwards the mediums named were developed, and they are still
serving us to-day.
These gentlemen, with Mr. Weatherhead, were the main stays of the cause, and Mr.
Weatherhead, during his life here, spared neither time nor means in spreading abroad
this grand truth. It was he who established the first printing press, and distributed
tracts, pamphlets, and other literature broadcast, the materials for which were
largely obtained through mediumship. He it was who bore the entire expense of the
erection of the Lyceum buildings, and in many other ways testified his earnestness
and devotion to the cause. The outcome of his labours has been that to-day we have
here a society in a flourishing condition, having one hundred and fifty members on
the roll, some five or six active mediums constantly ministering to us, and a Sunday-
school, composed of upwards of a hundred members.
As, therefore, a slight mark of esteem and appreciation to these our pioneer workers,
we are to-night to present to them the portraits before us, and all will join with me in
saying they are most heartily deserved.”
The portraits, in oils, which are excellent specimens of the painter's art, were then
presented. That to Mr. Wright was presented by Mr. John Scott, of Belfast; that to Mr.
Shackleton by Mr. D. Richmond, of Darlington, and that of Mr. Weatherhead to his
family, by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, and suitable acknowledgments were made in
each case. The proceedings were varied by some excellent singing and reciting by a
glee party and several friends, and altogether the event was marked by a hearty
enthusiasm which evidenced the full sympathy of all present in the event of the day.
On Sunday, the 9th inst., Mr. J. J. Morse delivered two trance addresses before very
large audiences, the subjects being respectively, “Concerning Devils,” and
“Spiritualism: a Message of Peace and a Gospel of Hope,” which were admitted to be
among the best Mr. Morse has delivered in this town.
The series of meetings were held in the large Auction Hall of Mr. William
Weatherhead, who very kindly placed it at the disposal of the Society free of cost. The
above events will be long remembered by all present, and constitute an occasion that
will be historical in its relations to the progress of Spiritualism in Great Britain
………………………………………………………….
106
Taken from ‘Pioneers of the Spiritual Reform’ by Mrs. Howitt Watts 1883, Ann Mary
Howitt Watts was the daughter of William Howitt. William Howitt was born at
Heanor, in Derbyshire England, December 18th
1792 and died in Rome on March 3rd
1879. Howitt was an early contributor to the spiritualist movement, he wrote many
articles for the British monthly Journal ‘The Spiritual Magazine’ (1860-77). He
authored a number of books including ‘The History of the Supernatural’ in two
volumes 1863. ED
WILLIAM HOWITT'S CLAIRVOYANT DREAM
ON HIS VOYAGE
TO AUSTRALIA IN 1852.
"Some weeks ago, while yet at sea, I had a dream of being at my brother's at
Melbourne, and found his house on a hill at the further end of the town, next to the
open forest. The garden sloped a little way down the hill to some brick buildings
below; and there were greenhouses on the right hand by the wall as you looked down
the hill from the house. As I looked out from the windows in my dream, I saw a wood
of dusky-foliaged trees, having a somewhat segregated appearance in their heads; that
is, their heads did not make that dense mass like our woods.* `There" I said,
addressing someone in my dream, `I see your native forest of Eucalyptus!' This dream
I related to my sons, and to two of our fellow passengers, at the time; and on landing,
as we walked over the meadows, long before we reached the town, I saw this very
wood. `There!' I exclaimed, `is the very wood of my dream. We shall see my brother's
house there!' And so we did. It stands exactly as I saw it, only looking newer; over the
wall of the garden, is the wood, precisely as I saw it, and now see it, as I sit at the
dining-room window writing. When I look on this scene I seem to look into my
dream."
In the Spiritual Magazine, October, 1871, William Howitt speaking of this dream
gives further curious details; he says-
"In a vision at sea, some thousands of miles from Melbourne I not only saw clearly
my brother's house and the landscape around it, but also saw things in direct
opposition to the news received before leaving England. It was said that all the men
were gone off to the gold-fields, and that even the Governor and Chief Justice had no
men-servants left. But I now saw abundance of men in the streets of Melbourne, and
many sitting on door-steps asking employment. . . . . . . When in the street before my
brother's house, we saw swarms of men, and some actually sitting on steps, seeking
work. All was so exactly as I had described it, that great was the astonishment of my
companions."
107
IN THE AUSTRALIAN BUSH, FIRST MEETS
WITH "TABLE-TURNING" AND THE SO-
CALLED "WILLING GAME" OF TO-DAY.
"Whilst we were in Australia," says William Howitt, "came to us rumours of the
outbreak of Spiritualism in America. In our letters from home we heard of it having
assumed first the shape of table-turning and hat-turning. We heard that this
phenomenon had excited great sensation, that it was become an amusement in all
ranks of society; hats and tables were being spun everywhere. The philosophers were
ready to account for the strange spectacle, as they are generally ready to account for
anything. . . .The relation of these things as they came to us in the Bush appeared
absurd enough. I have successively laughed at Homoeopathy and Mesmerism; and
now I laughed at this new phenomenon. I jocosely asked in my letters home, whether
`the spirits' could not tell us where the great nuggets lay? We were, however, much
sooner to be convinced of the moving of hats and tables than we expected. At
Wangaratta, on the Broken River, far up in the Australian Bush, a Dr.-, seeing Mr. B.
(one of our party), sketching near the bridge, fell into conversation with him, and
learned that he belonged to our party. Dr.-, indeed, hunted us out at our tent, and
pressed us cordially to spend the evening with him, which we did. A social evening,
in our journeyings through the forest, was a rare pleasure. The Doctor had two
daughters. After tea he asked us if we had seen any hat-turning. We replied in the
negative. A hat was placed on the table, one or two of us put our hands on it, and
certainly it began to spin round, without any action on our part. It struck us as very
curious. The same experiment was made with a small table, and the result was the
same.
Whatever was the cause, the effect was real and curious. Thus my first
acquaintance with modern Spiritual-manifestations was made in the Australian Bush.
After these demonstrations, the Doctor threw his eldest daughter into the mesmeric
sleep, and showed us some remarkable experiments. The Doctor then took a little pile
of half-pence, set them on the table, and, taking me aside, told me that he had willed
that when his daughter awoke she should immediately take up these pence, and put
them away in a cupboard. This exactly occurred. On her being demesmerised, she
looked round for a while, like a person just awoke, and then, without a word, took up
the pence, and carried them to a cupboard! Her father asked her why she did that, and
she replied that she could not tell, but that she felt a strong impulse to do so.
"Soon after, on our journey, stopping at Mr. Turnbull's Station, Charlton and one
of the young Turnbulls tried the experiment with a hat, and then with a table, when, to
their great astonishment, the table went whirling about the room in a very wild way!"
In connection with William Howitt's visit to Australia is his publication, in 1857,
of a description of life in Australia, in which he has allowed the romantic character of
his mind to have full play. To this novel are added various short tales, the scene of
which is laid in Australia. Originally these shorter sketches appeared in Household
Words -sketches which received warm encomium from Dickens, to whose pen, in
Australia, they had, much to my father's amusement, been attributed!
108
This novel, "Tallengetta, or the Squatter's Home," contains many incidents entirely
of a Spiritualistic and "supernatural" character, the result of my father's first personal
knowledge of "modern spirit manifestations," and its preface contains a frank
confession of his faith in them, and the following extract from it may be said to
contain the germ of his future "History of the Supernatural." He says: "In all ages
Spiritualism has been exhibiting itself in one form or another; and there is a very old
adage that where there is smoke there is pretty certainly fire. In the long ages of the
sacred history, in the remarkable centuries which succeeded the first spread of
Christianity, in the mythic structures and creeds of ancient nations, in India, China-
familiar with rapping and table-turning these thousand years - Egypt, Greece, and
Rome; under all the distortions and concealments of magic, witchcraft, and the occult
sciences of the middle ages, spiritual agency has been working according to the
firmest convictions of the greatest minds of those countries and times. As Socrates has
his `familiar spirit,' Numa his Egeria, as the Arabs had their genii, Friar Bacon his
brazen head, and Paracelsus his inward illumination, his ` Einhauchende Geister,' so
Jacob Bohme and George Fox, in recent, and Zschoke, in our own times, astonished
their contemporaries by their revelations. Certainly in all ages there has been a very
great smoke in that quarter." My father goes onto say: "The smoke of Spiritualism is
now visible enough," and that where he has found it, he has made use of it in his
novel-namely, in the Australian Bush-"and this, not in the person of a humbug or a
charlatan, but in men educated, scientific, serious, acute in all their relations,
profoundly religious, and admittedly honest."
Between December, 1884, when William Howitt returned to England, and June,
1887, when Tallengetta was published, much of psychological interest had occurred.
Our author had left "the gold-fields of the external world, not greatly enriched with
"nuggets;" enriched in far better ways, however, with a new lease of health and
strength, with much new and varied knowledge, and with a seed of truth sown in his
mind -the perception of some unrecognised "force" behind the phenomenon of "hat
and table-turning" and the "willing game," destined to bring forth, within the next
twenty years, a great harvest. He was returned fully prepared henceforth to dig for
spiritual and celestial gold in the "gold-fields" of spirit-knowledge.
* It may be interesting here to note a clairvoyant dream of William Howitt's brother
Richard, referring also to Australian scenery. "Let me add one fact he once related to
me in conversation-namely, that when a youth in Derbyshire, he dreamed a strange
sight-the sunlight descending on a slope amongst trees, the like of which he had
theretofore never seen, and that dream was realised exactly some thirty years
afterwards in Australia."- (Chapter xxiv., Richard Howitt, "Sketches of Remarkable
People, by Spencer T. Hall," The Sherwood Forester. London: Simpkin, Marshall &
Co. 1873.)
…………………………………………………………
109
DION FORTUNE BIOGRAPHY TO BE REVISED
Readers of the now defunct Psypioneer web site may recall the new item
below
LEADING OCCULTIST WAS ACTIVE AS A MEDIUM
A new biography of Dion Fortune (1890- 1946) provides additional evidence that the
founder of the Fraternity of the Inner Light guided her group and obtained much of
her teaching, through mediumship.
Gareth Knight “ Dion Fortune & the Inner Light” (Thoth Publications 2000), the
latest of several biographies of the former Violet M. Firth, uses the archives of the
Society of the Inner Light which (like the Theosophical Society) has been the parent of
numerous occult groups.
It is clear that a number of entities (Spiritualists would call them guides) manifested
through DF, including David Carstairs, Lord Thomas Erskine and Socrates. The
material received ranged from the practical details of community life to metaphysics
comparable to “The Secret Doctrine”.
Knight comments (p. 191):
“ Dion Fortune was quite categorical in her belief that mediumship provided the
power for invigorating her fraternity, although there has always been a certain
ambivalence, verging at times upon duplicity, as to how far occult teaching relied
upon techniques shared with spiritualism. “
DF functioned as a trance medium since 1921, when she provided some Glastonbury
material for Bligh Bond. Her last trance address was at the Autumnal Equinox, 1945.
In 1941-2, she was involved in negotiations with C.R. Cammell the editor of “Light”
about a possible closer relationship between Spiritualism and Occultism.
Dion Fortune and her Fraternity professed to operate on Western and Christian lines,
and after her death it continued as a society of Christian Qabalists. Gareth Knight
has recently returned to it.
Mediumship was important in the Society for a generation after the death of DF, with
the founder as a principal communicator, and Margaret Lumley Brown succeeding
her as Pythoness.
…………………………………………
An earlier pioneering biography of Dion Fortune was Alan Richardson’s “Priestess”
(1987), later reprinted and translated into German. Alan is now revising this and
would welcome information about her work, c/o Psypioneer.
………………………………………….
110
THE DIVINE ANNA
As secretary of the Olcott Centre, I arranged for the late David Redstone manager of
Watkins Bookshop in London, to speak at 50 Gloucester Place London, the Adyar
national T. S. headquarters, about Anna Kingsford. To my surprise on 4 November
1983 I found 47 people gathered peacefully in a classroom for 20, and they were from
many groups. It was evident that this was a woman who was venerated as a pioneer
by vegetarians, anti-vivisectionists, feminists, Theosophists, and several varieties of
esoteric Christians. Anna and her colleague Edward Maitland had also sat with a
number of mediums in 1880s London.
It is excellent news that a new web site devoted to her has been established.
www.anna-kingsford.com and is available in both English and Portuguese.
Maitland’s two volume biography of her is an important independent account of
dramatic events in the early days of the British Theosophical Society. As with Emma
Hardinge Britten, Madame Blavatsky did not see eye to eye with Anna and quoted a
description of her as “The Divine Anna” unsympathetically. (See “Letters of H. P.
Blavatsky to A .P. Sinnett, Pasadena, TUP, p.44)
But it is also true that when Anna Kingsford died Madame Blavatsky wrote in her
magazine Lucifer: “She was ….. a leader of spiritual and philosophical thought, gifted
with the most exceptional psychic attributes. …. She was one, the aspirations of
whose whole life were ever turned toward the eternal and the true. A mystic by nature
– the most ardent one to those who knew her well. …. The whole of her adult life was
passed in working unselfishly for others, for the elevation of the spiritual side of
humanity.” (Lucifer II/7 March 1988 p.78-9)
We may hope that the renewed interest in Anna will lead to the rediscovery of the
mass of documentation used by Maitland in his biography, especially his diaries. The
late lecture by Maitland’s own follower, Samuel Hopgood Hart “In Memoriam Anna
Kingsford” delivered to the Leeds Vegetarian Society in 1946 to mark the centenary
of her death, is already on the site.
The site webmaster Arnaldo Sisson spoke on “The Vegetarian Christianity of Dr
Anna Kingsford at the last Vegetarian World Congress in 2004 at Florianopolis,
Brazil. LP.
……………………………………………..
111
TRANSITION ON DR. FORBES WINSLOW
In our issue of November 2005, we drew attention to the partial electronic
resurrection of Dr Forbes Winslow – his early views, but not his late ones. We
reprint the following from LIGHT June 14 1913 p.288.
The newspapers report that Dr. Forbes Winslow died suddenly in London on Sunday
last from a heart attack. He was in his seventieth year. Dr. Winslow, upwards of thirty
years ago, made a statement to the effect that Spiritualism was driving people insane
in America and filling the asylums of that country with its victims. This assertion was
fully controverted at the time by the late Dr. Eugene Crowell, but it still does duty as a
stock objection to Spiritualism in the pamphlets which are published by our
opponents.
During recent years Dr. Winslow became convinced of the reality and value of
hypnotism, and lectured for the Spiritualist societies at Merthyr Tydfil and Cardiff. In
reply to a question at Merthyr he publicly stated that while at the time that he made
his assertion he honestly believed it to be true, he had since learned that he was
mistaken and would not make any such statement now. He was a Vice-President of
the Psycho-Therapeutic Society, and gave a lecture to its members two years ago last
February, in which he said that vice and bad habits could be eradicated by the use of
suggestion if the victim wished to be cured. The funeral took place yesterday, the 13th
inst., at Barnes.
………………………………………………………………
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues
on the web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our
Australian friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free
and direct by sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com
or “ Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail. psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
112
