{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v2_n6_jun_2006.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V2 N6 Jun 2006","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul Gaunt
Volume 2, No 6; June 2006
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
We shall fight them on the web sites? – Leslie Price. 113
Spiritualism newly introduced ( book review) 119
In memoriam – Margaret Fox-Kane. – James Burns 121
Margaret Fox’s Poverty. 125
Woman who was a medium for fifty-two years. 127
Farewell to Mr J.J. Morse and Tien 131
Australian Letters from J.J. Morse. 133
How to obtain this Newsletter by email. 138
………………………………………………
WE SHALL FIGHT THEM ON THE WEB SITES?
A shocking example of unsubstantiated assertion appeared on the BBC website
http://www.bbc.co.uk/history/scottishhistory/modern/oddities_modern.shtml
(This is current as we go to press; though, as some errors on the page were pointed out
to the BBC site on 9 June, we hope for changes.)
It was claimed that Winston Churchill visited Helen Duncan in prison in 1944, and
that “one of his first acts when he was re-elected to power in 1951 was to repeal the
Witchcraft Act.” The same BBC site revealed “A formal act of Parliament three years
later officially recognised spiritualism as a religion” – what act would that be?
There is no published evidence that Churchill visited Mrs Duncan in prison, and she
made no such claim herself, though such a visit is claimed on
http://www.helenduncan.org
During her time in prison, according to several witnesses including some former
guards, Winston Churchill and the Queen Mother visited her.
If such testimony existed, it would be of great interest, though the guards (female
prison warders) would now be very old. It is hard to believe however that such visits
could happen without Maurice Barbanell and Percy Wilson being aware of it. By the
Queen Mother, presumably the then Queen, wife of the King, is meant; though she
113
would be sympathetic to the paranormal, for either of them to visit a convicted person
in prison would be highly unlikely. Let those who assert it produce their evidence.
The same web site asks us:
And is it also significant that on his return to power following the immediate post-war
Labour Government the ONLY tranche of legislation he permitted to be carried over
from the previous administration was the private Parliamentary Bill replacing the
archaic 1735 Witchcraft Act under which Mrs Duncan was 'convicted' by the
Fraudulent Mediums Act ? (http://www.helenduncan.org.)
Well no, it isn’t significant. The Fraudulent Mediums Act 1951, easily available on
the Web is dated 22 June 1951. The general election which returned Churchill to
power was 26 October 1951. Whatever his views, it was too late for him to influence
it - the bill was law and the celebrations had already been held. It seems rather hard
that after the Labour government gave support to a private member’s bill to legalise
mediumship, the credit should be transferred to a Conservative premier, but it is an
example of how famous names attract apocryphal stories. Most people, even
Americans, have heard of Churchill, but not of Chuter Ede, the Labour Home
secretary, who facilitated the legal change.
As Jean Bassett records about 1951 in the official SNU history “One Hundred Years
of National Spiritualism.” (1990, p.55)
“A victory dinner was held in the Houses of Parliament on Monday July 16th
…. The
first toast of the evening was to Parliament coupled with the name of the Right
Honourable J. Chuter Ede, the Home Secretary.” (warning-a misplaced full stop in
the book gives the impression that Clement Davies, leader of the Liberal Party, was
Home Secretary. ). Ede was present.
The Duncan web site calls her confidante of wartime premier Winston Churchill and his
colleagues. It is known that some wartime leaders were involved in Spiritualism, such
as Mackenzie King, premier of Canada, but there is no published evidence that Mrs
Duncan was the confidante of any of them. But the purveyor of this claim has perhaps
not realised the logic of the boast. If she was the confidante of anyone in government,
what is the value of the claim to paranormal information about such matters as the
sinking of the Barham?
While we are considering Helen Duncan, it may be worth recalling a note from the
previous Psypioneer web site.
HELEN DUNCAN WAS FIRST.
"She was the first medium to be charged under the Witchcraft Act.". This was claimed
of Helen Duncan by Maurice Barbanell in his book "The Case of Helen Duncan"
(Psychic Press 1945) p.143.
114
Barbanell had available historical research that had been done not only for the
Duncan trial but also for her appeal. He stated "This statute has very rarely been
used. I have managed to trace three prosecutions in the present century - in 1904,
1935 and 1939. The last two were for fortune telling."
However the publicity given to the Duncan case encouraged the police to use the
Witchcraft Act 1735, and a 72 year old woman was a few months later brought before
the Old Bailey, and was bound over.
A Spiritualist meeting scheduled to be held on 8 October 1944 in Altrincham near
Manchester to hear a trance address "The Science of Spiritual Healing" was declared
illegal under the Act by a police superintendent in Altrincham. The meeting had to be
held outside the district.. Printers also became worried about printing material about
this case, and two refused to print. Other cases followed.
Popular writers on the paranormal sometimes describe Helen Duncan as the last
medium prosecuted under the Witchcraft Act - the reverse is the truth. The Act
continued to be used throughout the Labour Government of 1945-50. More evidence
will be presented soon.
In his 1944 booklet "Rogues and Vagabonds" Barbanell had written "We do not fear
the operations of the Witchcraft Act of 1735, for it is very rarely invoked" but this
proved over-confident.
The Pioneer web site gave information about later cases in another new item:
1950 WITCHHUNT
Even in 1950, six years after the Duncan case, British police were still ready to
prosecute mediums for conjuration, a contemporary journalist recorded.
In his book "Matters of Life and Death" (1953) Geoffrey Murray noted (p.102) the
case of Charles Botham who was convicted on 20 June 1950 on three counts of false
pretences. "There were also two counts of conjuration under the Witchcraft Act, but
these two counts were never presented to the court and the jury were discharged from
returning a verdict upon them.". (Possibly these two charges were used for some
secondary purpose, connected with bail for example).
Unusually this case appears to have been raised in Parliament. The Home Secretary
Chuter Ede is quoted as saying that Botham had persuaded a widow to place sums of
money, amounting to £1000 and £500, on a chair so that the spirit of her late husband
could dematerialise them and apply them to medical charities. "The notes were not
dematerialised but in a very material form reached Mr Botham's wallet." Ede said.
Did the 1951 Act result in a rash of prosecutions of fraudulent mediums? Murray
added that “a medium has been prosecuted under its provisions. The London
magistrate who heard the charge declined to send the case for trial and discharged
the medium after hearing the defence."
115
As the Pioneer web site elsewhere noted, the history of the laws against mediumship
and other unorthodox practices is quite complex, with pitfalls into which we all fall at
different times. Geoffrey Murray " Matter of Life and Death, an Inquiry into
Spiritualism, Faith Healing, and Psychic Research Today " (London, Sidgwick and
Jackson, 1953) derived from articles in 1951 in the News Chronicle, a Liberal daily
newspaper (whose later passing I recall), and is valuable for giving a portrait of the
psychic scene of the era - which was also the time, incidentally, when NFSH and
CFPSS were formed
Murray says (p.13)
"On June 22, 1951, the Fraudulent Mediums Act became law and a long-standing
stigma was removed from the people called Spiritualists by taking them out of the
legal categories of witches and vagrants. The Act, so drafted that it had none of the
jargon that usually makes the will of Parliament incomprehensible to laymen, is
commendably short, for it is contained on single octavo sheet, of which a copy can be
bought from His Majesty's Stationery Office for twopence. But it marks, as most of
those stressed who took part in the House of Commons debate that preceded its
passing, the completion of the movement for religious toleration that began, in 1689,
with the Toleration Act and was progressively extended by the Catholic Emancipation
Act of 1829, the admission of Jews to Parliament in 1858, and the abolition of Church
rates in 1868. From that slow movement toward religious freedom, Spiritualists were
excluded primarily because of the late origin of their beliefs."
An alternative view, which has been expressed in print, is that the 1951 Act was part
of the rise of the permissive society which arose mainly in the 1960s, with various
legal and social changes. But that was not how it was seen at the time.
Another claim often made is that the case of Mrs Duncan in 1944 led to the
legalisation of mediumship in 1951. No such connection has been shown, and it is
even possible that the case was counter-productive in official quarters. Perhaps it
contributed to the lack of sympathy to Spiritualists of wartime Home Secretary
Herbert Morrison.
The legalisation of mediumship in 1951 was the culmination of a long campaign,
which was well established even when Conan Doyle took part in 1930. An important
step in the Second World War was the creation of the SNU Freedom Fund. Again we
call up an item from the defunct Psychic pioneer web site
POLICE ACTION BEFORE DUNCAN CASE
More information about police harassment of Spiritualists during the Second World
War is contained in the book by Dr G.K. Nelson “ Spiritualism and Society” (1969).
Speaking of 1942, the author noted;
“. in that year a new campaign of police prosecutions started. On 27th
September two
police officers, disguised as sick soldiers in hospital blue, attended a séance
conducted by Austin Hatcher and Emily Little. As a result Hatcher and Little were
charged with ‘pretending to hold communication with the spirits of deceased persons
116
and deceive the public’. They appeared at Cardiff Magistrates Court and Hatcher
was sentenced to three months’ and Emily Little to one month’s imprisonment; their
appeal against convictions was dismissed by Cardiff Quarter Sessions. “
In another case Mrs A Townsend of South Harrow escaped with a £2 fine for fortune
telling. Such events led the Spiritualists National Union to set up a freedom fund.
Soon, Florence Camper of Southend was fined for claiming to tell fortunes and Rhoda
Wardle a healer claiming to be a minister of religion, was fined £5 for failing to
comply with directions as to employment.
Assessing what really happened in such cases would be difficult without much more
detail. In some cases police may have acted after complaints from the public. Some of
those convicted may have been fraudulent. But it all added to a general feeling of
religious insecurity. On 6 January 1941, President Roosevelt had defined the Four
Freedoms, one of which was freedom of worship. Similar declarations were made as
the war progressed, even in former Axis territories, and Spiritualists felt that they
should be included in such freedom.
It should be noted that Helen Duncan was not regarded by the Spiritualist Movement
of her time as an unmixed blessing. LIGHT in 1944 was ambivalent about the
conviction, and the LSA was I believe consulted by the police. Although £3000 (an
enormous sum in those days) was diverted from the SNU Freedom Fund to help in her
defence, she refused to allow the SNU to manage her sittings after her release from
prison. The SNU subsequently withdrew her certificate as a physical medium.
Barbanell himself was at times exasperated by what he regarded as her reckless
behaviour. The prosecution in 1944 undoubtedly hoped that quoting the large weekly
income of the medium they would prejudice the jury against her.
A few words about the ship HMS Barham with whose sinking the Helen Duncan case
is involved. The BBC History web site confidently declares “In 1943 the spirit of a
sailor appeared, announcing that he had just gone down on a vessel called the
Barham.” The site http://www.helenduncan.org . puts it more forcefully,
When she materialized the full form of a sailor with the name H.M.S. BARHAM on his
cap, a ship, which the English government denied had been sunk; she was arrested
and jailed as a spy and then a witch.
Let’s take dates first. The Barham was sunk on 25 November 1941, not 1943.. Mrs
Duncan was arrested in January 1944, though of course she had been investigated by
the authorities for much longer. In his book “Spiritualism a critical survey” (1966)
Simeon Edmunds claimed
In fact the sitter concerned was the widow, not the mother, of a petty officer who was
lost in Barham, and Mrs Duncan did not give the name of the ship, but extracted it
from the sitter.
117
He adds:
The story of the ship's name on the capband also seems dubious when it is re-
membered that during the war, for security reasons, naval capbands bore only the
letters HMS.
Alan Jeffreys of the Department of Exhibits and Firearms of the Imperial War
Museum puts the latter point even more precisely in an e mail response of 20 June
2006 to a query.
As you correctly mention sailors' cap tallies did not have the ship's name on during
the Second World War. They just had HMS on.
It looks like the Barham story has been exaggerated. Moreover, for security reasons a
public announcement of the sinking of a ship in wartime might be delayed, but that
does not mean it was not known in the locality, not least from the survivors.
Finally let us return to Mrs Duncan in Holloway. In his biography of her “Hellish
Nell” (2001) Dr Malcolm Gaskill presents a good deal of evidence about the legal
climate before and after the 1944 trial. Despite its sometimes hostile tone, the book is
essential reading for psychic historians. He sardonically observes:
“The story that Churchill was a regular séance-goer who visited Helen Duncan in
Holloway, had a private sitting in her cell and promised to make it up to her, was an
inevitable fantasy. Needless to say, suggestions that her other sitters included
Mackenzie King, General De Gaulle, the Queen Mother and Chief Sitting Bull should
be treated with caution, although ironically the fact that Sitting Bull died in 1890
made him the most likely candidate if any one of these ever did pay her a visit.”
(p.299).
As Dr Gaskill is director of studies in history at Churchill College, Cambridge, where
the Churchill Archives are housed, all of these parties – and we ourselves- would be
interested to learn more of Churchill’s alleged contacts with Mrs Duncan. We might
otherwise be tempted to suspect that someone has been indulging in what Churchill
himself called terminological inexactitudes.
Fantastic misinformation about Helen Duncan is widespread across the Internet.
Capbands with HMS Barham on them are mentioned on a number of sites devoted to
the paranormal and to social history in general. Wikipedia claims that Mrs Duncan’s
1944 trial “almost certainly contributed to Churchill's decision to eliminate the
Witchcraft Act in 1951.” when as recalled above, he was not even in power; and
perhaps inevitably she is said by Wikipedia to be the last person convicted under the
Witchcraft Act, when as noted above, her conviction actually caused the police to
bring the Act back into regular use. Other sites speak of a mysterious Act three years
after 1951 which is supposed to have recognised Spiritualism.
None of this bodyguard of lies is helpful to any reputable cause. LP.
118
SPIRITUALISM NEWLY INTRODUCED
There is a shortage of recent introductions to Spiritualism, apart from Lyn de Swarte’s
useful “Principles of Spiritualism” (1999). Roy Stemman’s instant classic “Spirit
Communication” (2005) which we welcomed in our June 2005 issue, does not cover
organisational Spiritualism. So there is a gap in the market.
A new book “An Introduction to Spiritualism” by S. Jeffery and D. Underdown has
appeared from Amherst Publishing in Sevenoaks Kent (£9.99 ISBN 1 903637 40 6- e
mail psy-aid@hotmail.co.uk) It takes an unusual approach. The authors, who do not
disclose in the book their full names or where they are (Folkestone) , call their
philosophy ETVOSISM (etvos = enlightenment: the voice of spirit). They cover much
of the usual ground in such matters as survival and mediumship.
But they too have little to say about organisations, and even mis-spell the SNU name
when they twice mention it. (In this they are however in good company because the
official history of the SNU calls it throughout “Spiritualist National Union”, though
using the correct “Spiritualists National Union “on the title page. )
There is a good deal of argument with Christianity, including 20 biblical quotations
between p33-46. This is a bit risky - it is not without reason that many Spiritualist
churches ban Bibles from their rostrums.
But it is with the treatment of the pioneers that our readers will be concerned. There is
a substantial historical section (p.48-89) but many pioneers, such as A.J. Davis and
Stainton Moses do not feature, and others like the great biblical translator William
Tyndale (p.74) had no sympathy with the paranormal. (He condemned the Holy Maid
of Kent.)
The authors seem to have written their book mainly from web sites. Readers of this
newsletter will need no reminder that some of the information which appears on sites
and in books about pioneers is unreliable. (See the note in this issue of Psypioneer
about Churchill, who features in this book.)
Another focus of myth is the secret Anglican report on Spiritualism. (Newsletter
January 2005). The authors claim it was leaked to the media in 1979 (p.116). Actually
its majority conclusions were leaked in 1947; in 1979 there was even an official press
release from the Church Information Office to mark formal publication of the full
text, including the minority report, in “The Christian Parapsychologist.” March
1979.
119
A strange paragraph appears on p.25
“An unpublicised, little known fact, is that following the repeal of the Witchcraft Act
and the subsequent introduction of Fraudulent Mediums Act in 1951, Spiritualism
gained recognition from the Government in 1954. As such Spiritualism became one of
the only two officially recognised religions in the UK. Incidentally, the other
recognised religion is the Church of England…..”
What is meant here is not explained. There are at least two legally established
religions in the UK- the Church of Scotland is one. Several other churches feature in
legislation (e.g. the various Methodist Church Acts.). Christian and Jewish
communities are members of the Churches Main Committee which negotiates with
the government on church related matters like the application of Value Added Tax.
The Department of Communities and Local Government based in London which
seeks to influence religion in the interests of government policy has a substantial
database of religious bodies, which may well include Spiritualist ones. “Legal
recognition 1954” is again a heading on p.89, but the mystery remains.
Finally two further signs of modernity in the book, apart from the use of web sites.
Arthur Findlay is scarcely mentioned - the authors do not, like some, recycle what
Findlay wrote in the 1930s. They state correctly that Maurice Barbanell founded
Psychic News (see Psypioneer January 2005) and are not among those who follow the
SNU in claiming that Arthur Findlay founded it. (No such claim was made by Findlay
himself of course.) .
The authors also draw attention to the Human Rights Act 1998, which extended the
freedom given to Spiritualism (for example in broadcasting.). LP. .
………………………………………………………
120
IN MEMORIAM
MARGARET FOX-KANE.
THE LAST OF THE CELEBRATED “FOX GIRLS.”
Reception address by J. Burns, at the Spiritual Institution, 15, Southampton Row,
London, April 24, 1893.
-----------------------------------------------------------
In the Anniversary Address which appeared in the MEDIUM, April 7, allusion was
made to the fact that Mrs. Margaret Fox Kane had died, - a word indicating, in the
shortest and most expressive way, that her spiritual part had left the body. I have ever
since been desirous of giving a Memorial Address on this eminent medium, and
beautiful but unfortunate woman. Time passes on, and I embrace the present
opportunity.
Before us stands a crayon portrait of her, taken when she was in her prime. It is the
work of the late Mr. Hedley, an old artist and enthusiastic Spiritualist of Halifax,
whose acquaintance I made nearly thirty years ago.
Margaret Fox was somewhat clandestinely married to Dr. Kane, the famous Arctic
explorer. After his death his family repudiated the marriage, and in self-defence Mrs.
Fox-Kane published a volume of correspondence between her and Dr. Kane: the title
of the volume was "The Love Life of Dr. Kane." In that volume appeared a finely en-
graved portrait of Margaret Fox, then in all her beauty. It was from this source that my
old friend Mr. Hedley derived copy from which the drawing before us was executed.
All can see that it is the portrait of a very graceful young woman.
Dr. Kane, it would appear, had a very sincere and honourable attachment to the
pretty young woman. He felt a genuine concern for her welfare. He begged of her to
give up those sittings, which so seriously imperilled her moral welfare, go to school
and receive education, and be prepared to take her place by his side as his well-
beloved wife. His untimely end frustrated her efforts in that direction. We know what
her end was!
No doubt Dr. Kane's excellent advice and motives were stoutly opposed by the so-
called Spiritualists of those days. The pretty Maggie, with her wonderful
manifestations, was too pleasing a toy for them to relinquish. They wrung the life-
force, the psychoplasm, from her by sittings, some dozing her and her sister with
alcoholics, till all moral sense and self-control were eradicated. What a damnable
crime! Her blood cries from the ground for vengeance. What permanent solidity,
dignity, or good can our movement effect while it systematically participates in sins
so dark and murderous as our "Fox girls" fell victims to; and their sad career is almost
universally repeated in the case of those who follow the same course to the bitter end.
121
Dr. Kane proved himself a more enlightened and generous Spiritualist than the so-
called Spiritualists who, no doubt, thought themselves justified in denouncing his
tender, wise, and loving care for the young woman of his choice.
These historical women have always occupied a warm place in the heart of the
Spiritualist. They were welcomed to London with ardent expectations. I remember
going with the good James Wason, of Liverpool, to have my first interview with Miss
Kate Fox, at Paddington. It was an interesting sight to see the sisters together on the
platform at Langham Hall, at a spring meeting convened by Mr. Enmore Jones. The
raps were loud and abundant. The mediumistic power seemed to attend them very
generally.
Strange and imaginative stories were got up at an early period to explain away
their mediumship. It was said that their knee-joints and their toe-joints cracked, and
thus the rapping sounds, attributed to spirits, were produced. No one could hear these
"rappings" without being at once convinced that the “joint" theory was absurd. Yet it
still finds great acceptance amongst "scientific" people, such as young doctors and
their ignorant adherents. A thing has only to be monstrously untrue, and unsupported
by evidence of any kind, to be very warmly believed by a certain class of people. The
truth, most abundantly testified to, is to them quite unbelievable. Are these people
sane? Is there not something exceedingly wrong in their mental constitution?
I remember once meeting Mrs. Kane at Mrs Nokes's, Kensington. I sat near to the
piano, which stood in the corner of the room, Mrs. Kane and Mrs. Nokes sat much
farther from it. Loud sounds were heard inside of the piano, which could not be
mistaken for the cracking of joints, and Mrs. Kane had no means of making these
sounds; she sat quite motionless. Then she took a piece of paper, and with her left
hand wrote rapidly from right to left of the paper, so that it had to be reversed in a
looking-glass before it could be read. These messages were recognised as Indicative
of spirits they purport to come from.
Mrs. Kane, it has been made to appear, had intercourse with the Romanists, who
prevailed on her to state that her mediumship was false, and that Spiritualism had
been her ruin. No denial or repudiation on her part could undo the facts of her
mediumship, as the records thereof were the work of independent observers. She
might just as well have tried to make people believe that she was a negro or an Indian;
people could see for themselves that she was not; they could also see that her
manifestations were not produced by her will, or trick of any sort.
Her sad condition near the end was described in the MEDIUM of April 7 (1). We
see in such a career matter which must give us pause, if we have the head and the
heart of humanity appertaining to us. Here we have a wonderful two-fold spiritual
spectacle: we have a woman giving spiritual manifestations to others, while within
herself she is spiritually lost and misdirected. All moral sense, and control of mind
and desire were gone.
The case illustrates the two phases of Spiritualism: the outer and the inner; man
has an outer body of function, and an inner mind of truth-thought, and moral sense. In
these physical mediums, the organic fluids, used for external function, are employed
by spirits to produce phenomena. This is done to such a great extent that the lamp
122
which gives the light of truth and spiritual direction in the soul is drained of its oil,
and mental disintegration and moral degradation inevitably follow. These outside
mediumistic influences tend to break down or scatter a man or woman, but the interior
spiritual influences pull a man together, centre him in the divine interior; he feels
himself, can take his part as a man, and the spirit world works through his interior,
building him up, rather than robbing him of his exterior powers and breaking him
down.
This is a problem I have studied very seriously for thirty years. For a short time I
thought that mankind could be enlightened by the unlimited exhibition of mediumistic
manifestations. I soon got corrected on that point. I found that few people were
disposed to accept the phenomena as spiritual, however much they saw of them.
There were others who recognised them as spiritual, but at once sought how to turn
them to improper and selfish uses. Others looked on them as an irresistible show, or
had a weakness to have their spirit friends always materialising to them. I found few
who could enter upon the subject from a pure and disinterested love of truth, and a
desire to understand those laws by which the spiritual gravitates into material form.
Later I found that mediums suffer most seriously from excess of sitting, and with
people who make an improper use of the opportunity, as detailed above.
I have therefore felt it to be my duty to enlighten public opinion on these points,
and for doing so I have been very grossly attacked by the parties in whose interests I
more particularly laboured in this special direction.
Some people seem to have no idea that there is a moral law attending on the use of
mediumship; they have the idea that it is "spiritual," therefore it must be good, and
they cannot have too much of it. But it is the proper use of anything that constitutes its
goodness or its evil. We have seen that the phenomena are related to the physical or
sensuous plane of life; and over-indulgence in the exercise of mediumship is just as
inimical to human welfare as any other form of inordinate sensuality.
Therefore I have long contended that the instruction and interior development of
the mind should precede phenomenal experiences. These interior and exterior
processes would harmonise better if all mediums worked only occasionally in private,
and with no other end in view than the elicitation of truth. But when the medium
makes a trade of it, and puffs the thing up as a commodity for sale, then farewell to all
that might elevate or instruct in the subject. One man's money is reckoned as good as
another's, and each Shylock sitter demands his pound of materialised flesh for the sum
he has paid. Under such circumstances, and with drunkenness, sensuality and moral
abasement of all kinds added, is it any wonder that this kind of thing has covered the
cause with scandals, left a track of festering corpses along the course of these forty-
five years, and helped to people the spirit world with darkened, unredeemed, and
unhappy souls! Is this what those, who trade on puffing this sort of thing, call a "new
dispensation?" If so, who dispensed it? Where did it come from?
Thus the grandest gift of heaven may be frustrated in its intention by man's
misconduct. Spiritualism is just what we make it; mediums are just what we make of
them. They being negative are emphatically "creatures of circumstances." Many of
our fellow-men are "mediums" though they know it not. Our duty to them is
123
illustrated in the care we should bestow on mediums, to protect them from evil
conditions, and use them aright.
And so, having used up all the celebrated Fox girls, let us turn over a new leaf, and
build up a Spiritualism in which such destruction and shame shall find no place. How
shall we do it?
First, let us sign that pledge I have spoken of: Not to use mediums in improper
conditions or for improper purposes; not to trade in their powers, but sustain and
protect them generously when necessary; not to have anything to do with individuals
or societies who disregard this pledge.
These principles, spoken openly before the spirit-world and the Spiritualists alike, -
how will they be received? How many will rush forward to sign that pledge? Who
will rally round a spiritual standard thus emblazoned? Ah! few indeed. The fact is, the
general state of society is so unspiritual that they do not see the enormity of their
conduct; and many are so callous that even if they knew such a course to be evil, few
would be able to deny themselves for the sake of principle, though souls should be
degraded as the price of their indulgence! It is impossible that a clear-head and honest
souled community can be thus reared on the husks of misapplied phenomena.
Possibly the statement will be made that I am "an enemy of mediums." Could any
statement be more false? Look at my pledge, and see if I am not a true friend of
mediums. They have scarcely any friends, even amongst Spiritualists, who seem to
think that the poor medium has no rights which they are bound to respect, if they want
a little fun with some Indian or negro spirit.
As I stand here face to face with the soul of Margaret Fox, my indignation, and
regret, and regards, and prayers so strive to find expression in the poor apparel of
words, that my feelings are unspeakable. What would any man with a human heart
have wished to say, had she been his Maggie? Thus should all true men treat every
woman.
I cast no reproach at her: she was the victim of an evil system of abusing mediums.
She has suffered much: let us hope there is compensation for her and for us all. None
of us have clean garments. Her life has not been in vain. Her mediumship has been of
unspeakable advantage, but not anything like what it would have been had it been
properly used and protected. We have seen that the reversion of abuse was arrived at
when she boldly repudiated the truth, and blamed her mission for being the cause of
her ruin. So it is in all forms of vicious excess. So it is even to-day in the terrible
lengths to which other forms of mediumship are being carried in the fortune-telling
direction. An awful revulsion is hanging over the movement, compared to which the
disasters wrought by the Fox girls will be but a speck. This I have felt for a long time,
and, in duty bound, have dared to speak of it, but the trafficking committee, the
mercenary medium, the medium-hunting sensationalist are deaf and blind as they
were while destroying our beautiful and gifted sister Margaret Fox.
When the day of retribution comes, who shall bear the stripes for the wrong so
ruthlessly inflicted?
124
Let us have a true Spiritualism, and honest representatives, who will dare to speak
the truth, but, if they know it not, keep silent. The abuses that exist in Spiritualism
must be laid largely at the door of speakers and committees, who trade upon one side
of the subject, and dishonestly withhold the other side of the picture to protect their
personal interests.
[This was published in The Medium and Daybreak. Vol. XXIV No. 1204. April
28th
1893. Page 257. A weekly Journal Devoted to the History, Phenomena,
Philosophy, and Teachings of Spiritualism. Established: As a Monthly-June
1868; as a Weekly-April 8, 1870. The cost in 1893 was one and half pence.]
(1) Below is the referenced article printed on the April 7th
, also taken from the
above journal page 212.
MARGARET FOX’S POVERTY
DESTITUTION OF A ONCE FAMOUS AND BEAUTIFUL WOMAN.
The tenement house of No. 456, West 57th Street, New York, is deserted now,
except one room, from cellar to roof. That room is occupied by a woman nearly sixty
years old, an object of charity, a mental and physical wreck, whose appetite is only for
intoxicating liquors. The face, though marked by age and dissipation, shows
unmistakably that the woman was once beautiful.
This wreck of womankind has been a guest in palaces and courts. The powers of
mind, now almost imbecile, were the wonder and study of scientific men in America,
Europe and Australia. Her name was eulogised, sung, and ridiculed in a dozen
languages. The lips that utter little else now than profanity once promulgated the
doctrines of a new religion, which still numbers the tens of thousands of enthusiastic
believers.
Yesterday afternoon there was a meeting of the First Society of Spiritualists of
New York. One man arose and stated in the course of the exercises that this woman
was about to be turned out of her lodgings. The landlord had ordered the house
vacated preparatory to leasing it exclusively to negroes. That something must be done
before Tuesday, on which day the room would be ready for its new tenants.
"I thought the best thing we could do, "continued the speaker” was to have her
committed to some hospital------."
"Never," interrupted a richly dressed young woman in the audience, "not while I
have a dollar left that I can call my own."
A storm of applause greeted these remarks.
A dozen men and women, all speaking excitedly at once, re-echoed the sentiment.
125
Somebody suggested a collection, not the first for that purpose, and everybody
there contributed willingly and generously.
Mrs. Emily B. Ruggles, of 492, State Street, Brooklyn, said: "I shall carry her to
my own home.There she will be cared for and want for nothing. She must not be
removed to a hospital."
The object of all this discussion, the invalid in the 57th Street tenement house, is
Mrs. Margaret Fox Kane, widow of Dr. Elisha Kent Kane, the Arctic explorer, last of
the three Fox sisters, who founded modern "Spiritualism."
Communications from the spirit world were alleged to be transmitted by rappings,
and seances given in New York before the war, were attended by the most prominent
men of learning in the country. The fame of the sisters spread. They found devoted
believers in all the large cities of the United States, and later in Europe. Their seances
were attended by nobility. Books, almost without number, were written about them.
Societies were organised, disciples and imitators came forward everywhere. The
eldest sister died in November, 1890. The second died in June, 1892. All had married.
Explorer Kane and Margaret Fox, her friends say, were married in the Quaker faith
a few months before his death in 1857. The marriage after Kane's death was denied by
his brothers. They finally offered her an interest in his estate upon the condition that
she would stop giving seances. She continued her exhibitions as a medium, and the
conditional payments were stopped.
In September, 1888, Mrs. Fox-Kane published an exposure of Spiritualism,
explaining that the rappings were produced by dislocating the big toe on one foot. She
had practised this, as had her sisters, until an audible noise, like a tapping upon a slate,
could be produced at will. The alleged communications with the spirit world she
acknowledged were fraudulent. The exposure created a great sensation, and
subsequently she retracted it. Since then she has lived in comparative obscurity. Mrs.
Fox-Kane will be removed to-day if she is well enough to be carried to the home of
Mrs. Ruggles, in Brooklyn.
Washington Daily Star, March 7.
[Margaret (Maggie) Fox-Kane died peacefully under Emily Ruggles’ care at
4.30am March 8th
1893. ED Psypioneer]
…………………………………………………………….
126
WOMAN WHO WAS A MEDIUM
FOR FIFTY-TWO YEARS
_____________________________
HAD TO BE PROTECTED FROM CROWDS
By A. W. Austen
(Note by Psypioneer. The interview that follows was published in Psychic News on 23
July 1932. The reporter, A.W. Austen was to be editor of the newspaper after the war,
and at the time of the famous 1947 leak of the majority conclusions of the secret
Anglican report. Mr and Mrs Wallis are excellent examples of the pioneer workers,
now almost totally forgotten, who were making history a century ago. )
( The Liverpool story that follows from the same PN page has no connection – it
is included as a typical example of PN’s assiduous use of press cuttings to make
propaganda points, and to call up Father Knapp, who often appeared in the
psychic papers of the era, but is now also forgotten. )
--------------
"Mrs. Wallis of Everywhere" was the appropriate name by which Mrs. M. H.
Wallis was frequently known during her fifty years of practising mediumship. She
was known all over Great Britain and in America.
She is one of the oldest mediums, if not the oldest, in England - she is in her
seventy-eighth year - and, though she has ceased to practise her mediumship, she still
receives messages from her spirit guides. Veina Goree, a young Spanish-Indian girl
who first controlled, often comes to her now, announcing her presence by suggesting
a few words of her own language in Mrs. Wallis's mind.
This medium has never been in deep trance and was always conscious of
what was being said through her. She could hear the words, but could not
prevent herself from saying them.
Her mediumship started when she was eighteen years old and - unlike many
psychics - she had had no previous intimation of her powers. She was not, knowingly,
visited by spirits when she was a child and she had no early visions.
SPIRIT GIRL LEARNS ENGLISH
She was a native of London, being born at Stoke Newington, and when she was
seventeen, she and her mother went to live with some Spiritualists. They sat at an
experimental circle and at the second sitting Mrs. Wallis, who was then just eighteen,
was made aware of some invisible force, but she did not understand it.
At a subsequent sitting a medium named Robert Cogman was present and his
control brought to Mrs. Wallis the girl Veina Goree. She could not speak English, but
127
spoke in a mixture of French, Italian, Spanish and Indian. Eventually, she learned
English and then she said that she was a descendant of Spanish-Indians and was born
near Cuba. She passed over when she was quite young.
On one occasion Veina conversed in her own tongue with a sitter who had met
some later descendants of the same race. She became very indignant when the sitter
suggested that her people were not highly-developed.
A NEW CONTROL
Mrs. Wallis's gifts were gradually developed and she was given the choice by her
guides of being trained by them for private work or for public speaking. She chose
speaking and was trained accordingly.
She started to give five-minute addresses under control and in 1875 she went to the
Spiritual Institution in Southampton Row, where she met E. W. Wallis, whom she
later married.
While she was speaking at the Spiritual Institution she was suddenly controlled by
an entity giving his name as Morambo, who was very antagonistic. He wanted Mrs.
Wallis to discontinue her work there, as he thought it might interfere with the physical
phenomena with which he was associated.
He was persuaded by James Burns, the editor of "The Medium and Daybreak," that
Mrs. Wallis's work would not affect his and he became much more reasonable, later
taking control of Mrs. Wallis for the purpose of answering questions on Spiritualism.
He continued this work throughout her public life, which included twenty-one years
with the London Spiritualist Alliance; he never gave addresses or helped her with her
clairvoyance.
Morambo was a negro slave who had been transported to South America. He
passed over when still in South America.
Mr. and Mrs. Wallis were married in 1876 and they then took over the work of
Robert Cogman, the medium through whose presence Mrs. Wallis was first controlled
by Veina. They took over his house and carried on the East End Spiritual Institution,
which he had started.
They both practised their mediumship and they often occupied the same platforms
together.
They travelled all over the country, often taking their children with
them, and more than once the babies were carried across the room and back by
materialized spirits.
E. W. Wallis was a fine healer and trance speaker and also had good powers of
psychometry and occasional clairvoyance, his controls being Standard Bearer, Leader,
Lightheart and Tom Joyce.
128
A NINE-MONTHS TOUR
Many people were interested in Spiritualism in those days, but apart from
Spiritualists, there was little enthusiasm. Later, when Mrs. Wallis and her husband
were working in Yorkshire and Lancashire, there was increased enthusiasm on the
one hand and decided antagonism on the other. Sometimes they were called after in
the street and occasionally they had to be protected on their way to and from
meetings, though they were never actually attacked.
Mrs. Wallis was at one -time the ministering medium of a Nottingham church and
while her husband was engaged on a nine-months' tour in America she was asked to
conduct the services at a Liverpool church. It was while there that she realized her
voice was weak and she prayed for additional power. The result was surprising and
Mrs. Wallis attributed it to Morambo and other spirit-workers who were associated
with her. After her inspirational addresses, Mrs. Wallis used to give clairvoyance with
the help of Veina.
After working in Walsall and Glasgow as resident speakers, Mr. and Mrs. Wallis
went in 1886 to Manchester, where they were largely instrumental in the publishing of
the "Two Worlds." Mr. Wallis was at first associate-editor and he assumed full
editorship in 1892, a position he held until he came to London in 1899 to work with
another Spiritualist paper, "Light."
They were pioneers in connection with the formation of the Spiritualists' Union,
then known as the National Spiritualists' Federation, and Mr. Wallis was at one time
the president. Mrs. Wallis and others founded the Order of Progressive Spiritualists'
Sick Benefit and Pension Fund and four years later, in 1898, this fund was handed
over to the S.N.U. and became the Fund of Benevolence.
POEMS FROM SPIRIT-LAND
Mrs. Wallis and her husband went on a speaking tour in America in 1898. The tour
lasted about five months, and after they had visited one of the Spiritualist camps
together they set out on separate journeys, speaking at different towns on the same
route.
They carried on their work in London together until Mr. Wallis passed over in
1914 and Mrs. Wallis then continued until 1924, when she completed fifty years of
public work and fifty-two years of mediumship. She now lives very quietly at
Finchley with her youngest son and his family.
Even after she retired from public work however, her friends in the spirit
work would not let her rest entirely. For a period of about nine months she was
continuously, given poems by inspiration These were published under the title,
"As They Came Thro'."
Mrs. Wallis collaborated with her husband in writing several Spiritualist books, the
best known being "Guide to Mediumship" and "Spiritualism ' in the Bible."
129
NEWS FROM THE OTHER WORLD
The clairvoyance given by Mrs. Wallis was usually suggested to her by Veina, but
occasionally she had visions and on one occasion for a few fleeting moments she was
clairaudient, though the gift was not continued.
When seeing clairvoyantly, sometimes she saw from the side of her head and if she
turned her head round, to see better, the vision would disappear.
She frequently received messages and advice by an inner voice suggesting things
to her. She knew the exact hour at which her mother-in-law passed and she frequently
had instructions when her children were ill. Evidences of spirit return were given
through her almost daily.
…………………………………………………………………………………….
CHRISTIANITY, 1932
Father Knapp, the conjurer who happens to be a priest, finds a mention now in the
"Liverpool Evening Express." "I note that the Countess Cadogan, Lady Howard of
Penrith, and Lady Lovat," says their gossip writer, "have been relying on Father
Knapp to give some of his Spiritualistic seances where guests see ghosts." They give
it the heading, "Society Spook Shows," and also say, "Society folk get tired of
humdrum recreations, and, especially in the summer, look out for something more
entertaining."
It is hard lines on Father Knapp that he is treated like this in a newspaper which
circulates in a Catholic area.
A few days later the new Liverpool Cathedral, the Anglican one, was attacked by
an angry crowd of several hundred Catholics, who threws volleys of stones, and broke
four valuable stained glass windows.
………………………………………………..
130
MR J.J. MORSE LEAVES ENGLAND FOR AUSTRALIA.
CONVERSAZIONE OF THE LONDON
SPIRITUALIST ALLIANCE.
FAREWELL TO MR. J. J. MORSE AND ' TIEN.'
A Conversazione of the London Spiritualist Alliance, being the last gathering of
the Members and Associates for the session of 1901-2, was held on Thursday
evening, 29th ult., in the Banqueting Room, St. James's Hall, the meeting being made
the occasion for bidding a public farewell to Mr. J. J. Morse, and `Tien Sien Tie,' the
control with whom his mediumship has so long been associated. There was a very
large and representative assembly.
Mr. E. DAWSON ROGERS the President, in opening the more formal portion of
the proceedings, said the occasion was one on which he could not do otherwise than
express his deep regret that it was necessary to say farewell for a season to their
friend, Mr. Morse. He thought the best compliment that had been paid to British
Spiritualism lay in the fact that their brethren on the other side of the world were
anxious to secure the services of a medium from the old country. If British
Spiritualism possessed none but men of moderate talent and mediocre mediumship it
would not have been favoured by such an invitation.
Continuing, the President said: I have been acquainted with Mr. Morse for a good
many years - sometimes it occurs to me it is more years than I like to think about. I
have known him thirty-three years - a very large portion of a man's lifetime - and I
should like to allude to what Mr. Morse was when I first know him, and what he is
now. I was one of two or three persons, including Dr. Peebles, who were invited to
meet Mr. Morse and his control one evening in order to form a judgment on the
question whether there was any difference between the two - that is, between Mr.
Morse and his supposed control. Some people, even now, affect to believe that Mr.
Morse and ‘Tien’ are very much the same people. If they had known Mr. Morse
thirty-three years ago they would not have thought so. Mr. Morse at that time - I ask
his pardon for the remark - was an untutored young man, all uncultured young man,
always gentle and respectable, but still without the advantages of education. When I
talked with Mr. Morse then, that was the estimate I formed of him; and other people
who met him formed a similar estimate. On that particular evening he was under
control, and we put questions of an abstruse character, deep metaphysical questions,
and they were answered in a way absolutely beyond Mr. Morse's normal capacity.
Since then we have witnessed the fact that Mr. Morse has become very like `Tien,' or
`Tien ' very like Mr. Morse. The truth is that Mr. Morse, like a wise man, knowing his
need of training, devoted himself to self-culture, and if our mediums generally would
do that and endeavour to rise in the intellectual and educational scale, they would do
much more credit to our movement. (Hear, hear.) Mr. Morse fortunately did that, and
now it is a fact, as many who meet him know, that Mr. Morse and `Tien' are very
much alike. And now, as I have said, he is about to leave us, and will be away perhaps
131
for two or three years, taking his wife and daughter with him. You may have all
opportunity of knowing something of his movements while he is away from an
excellent, well conducted paper published in Melbourne, which you, can obtain
without difficulty. I remember with gratitude that Mr. Stead once spoke of 'LIGHT' as
`the best, far and away the best,' of any of the psychical papers published in the
English language. I suspect that when he said that he did not know much of `the
Harbinger of Light,' because it would be dishonest on my part not to admit that, while
I naturally think Mr. Stead's appreciation was right upon the whole, the `Harbinger of
Light' runs `LIGHT' very closely. It is an extremely well-conducted paper, and will
give us from time to time a report of Mr. Morse's doings. In addition to that I may tell
you that the proprietors of LIGHT' have made arrangements with Mr. Morse for a
special monthly letter during his absence,, and you will thus have an opportunity of
learning from time to time what he is doing. (Applause.)
And now as to Mr. Morse as a member of society, as a member of our society, as
one of the Council of the London Spiritualist Alliance. I may say at once that, through
he and I have been acquainted for over thirty years and have often been brought into
close relationship, we have never had a quarrel or a dispute of any kind, or even a
cross word. (Applause.) You know that there are people whose unhappy faculty it is
to get very angry if you do not agree with them in every minute particular. If you do
not see exactly as they do on every possible question, they indulge the unhappy
delusion that it is meant as a reflection upon their character or their intellectual
capacities-a reflection which they can never forgive. Mr. Morse, on the other hand,
will not quarrel with anybody. He has brought peace, and harmony, and goodwill, and
gentleness wherever he has gone. That is Mr. Morse as I know him, and as others
know him. Now, we have recognised these admirable qualities in Mr. Morse, and
regretting, as we do, his departure to the other side of the world, the Council of the
Alliance have prepared a short address to him, beautifully inscribed on vellum,
testifying to their appreciation of him and their wishes for his future welfare.
The President then called upon Mr. E. W. Wallis, the secretary of the Alliance, to
read the address, which is as follows: -
`London Spiritualist Alliance, Limited,
`110, St. Martin's-lane, Charing Cross, London, W.C.
`May 29th, 1902.
'To Mr. J. J. Morse.
`DEAR FRIEND,-The Council of the London Spiritualist Alliance, Limited, of
which you are an honoured Member, desire to offer you their sincere congratulations
on your engagement by the Victorian Association of Spiritualists of Melbourne, to
lecture upon Spiritualism in Australia and New Zealand under the influence and
inspiration of your wise and eloquent spirit friend ' Tien,' whose name and abilities are
known in all parts of the world.
`The Council wish to express their cordial appreciation of the splendid services
that you have rendered to the cause of Spiritualism, to which you have devoted your
energies for upwards of thirty years. They know your work and worth, and realise that
by your fidelity, ardour, and manly example - and by your untiring services to the
children's cause through the Progressive Lyceum Union and your own paper, the
132
`Lyceum Banner' - you have laid the whole movement under a deep debt of gratitude;
while in your private, life, by your urbanity, tact, and kindliness you have endeared
yourself to all who have had the privilege of your friendship.
`The Council confidently believe that during your absence you will well and
worthily represent the Spiritualists of the Mother Land, and they therefore heartily
and unreservedly commend you to their brethren in Australia and New Zealand,
trusting that your labours in their midst will prove as helpful, and as fruitful in good
results, as they have been in past years in Great Britain and America. They wish you
and your family a pleasant, prosperous, and happy voyage. May God and the angels
speed you, bless your labours, and send you and your loved ones safely home once
more !
`Signed and sealed on behalf of the Council of the
London Spiritualist Alliance,
`E. DAWSON ROGERS, President.
`E. W. WALLIS, Secretary.'
This report is taken from ‘LIGHT’ Volume. XXII. June 7th
1902, page 271–72.
…………………………………………..
[James Johnson Morse’s, actual stay on his Australian trip covered the period
between September 4th
1902 –June 15th
1903. Four months of this time was devoted to
New Zealand. As Edmund Dawson Rogers mentions in his address, monthly reports
were to be printed in ‘LIGHT’ penned by Morse on his travels and experience. These
will be reprinted each month starting in this issue. ED.]
First letter.
FROM MR. J. J. MORSE
SPECIAL TO ‘LIGHT’
With lowering clouds, rain squalls, and a touch, more of than of midsummer, in
the air, we bade adieu to a host of friends upon the landing-stage at Liverpool, stepped
on board the tender, and in due course found our way to the decks of the good ship
`Suevic,' which was destined to be our home for nearly seven weeks. Two delightful
days been spent with Councillor Venables at his home in Walsall, and the last night
and day ashore found us the guests of our ever dear friends, Mr. and Mrs. S. S.
Chiswell, of Liverpool, both of whom accompanied us on to the steamer. Among
those to see us off were representatives of Liverpool societies, the national bodies,
and a number of important societies in towns near about. Partings are not exhilarating
experiences; yet in this case warm handclasps and fervent good wishes, even when
spoken with a quiver on the lips, made us feel the sincerity of the adieux our many
loved friends came to offer us.
133
A rousing cheer was given, and amid a waving of hands, off went the tender, and
the faces of our friends gradually became indistinct, fading from us ere we reached
the vessel lying in the stream. At last the inexorable order, `All for the shore, this
way!' sounded on our ears, and clasping the hands of our late host and hostess as they
went down the side, we parted for a time with our friends at home, and in a few hours
lost sight of the land we love.
Long sea trips have a strong family likeness, and the voyage of the 'Suevic' was,
from a nautical point of view, the least eventful of any I have made. Our route was via
the Cape; thence to Albany, West Australia; thence to Adelaide, South Australia, and
from there to this city of Melbourne, the capital of the State of Victoria. An
exceptionally fine trip the Bay of Biscay, a comparatively quiet and cool passage
through the Tropics, and a pleasant run thence to Table Bay, consumed three weeks
and a day. The customary concerts, to which Miss Morse frequently contributed,
together with sports and dances, enabled the passengers to beguile the tedium of the
voyage.
At the Cape we embarked nearly one hundred officers of the Australian
(Volunteer) Field Forces, returning home from their service in South Africa. These
were a fine body of men, two of whom had won the Victoria Cross, and one of those
two, in addition, had gained one of the silken scarves, specially woven by our late
Queen, as an additional honour for service in South Africa. Among us was a Church
of England clergyman, the Rev. F. C. Lees, M.A. (Oxon.), F.R.G.S., who conducted
service each Sunday morning; a cultured, liberal, and broad-minded man. The general
service at night was conducted by Mr. H. H. Barraclough, of Bradford, en route to
Tasmania; a Wesleyan, whose belief was evidently too small for him. We had several
interesting conversations, and incidentally it came out that he knew me well by
reputation and had read some of my books, and that his mother had heard me lecture a
number of times in Bradford, in my early days of work!
Among the military contingent was another interesting man, the Rev. James Green,
of the Methodist Church Australia, chaplain to the First Australian `C' Contingent,
who also preached on Sunday evenings. His last sermon was in every thing but words
just the same kind of Spiritualism as 'Tien' discourses, and contained a virtual
admission of the central propositions which Spiritualism advances. Several times a
request was made for me to lecture, and finally I assented, giving a short talk upon
‘Hypnotism,' with Major Umphleby in the chair. The lecture was well received, and
led to considerable discussion upon kindred topics. Eventually the voyage, which
lasted seven weeks less two days, came to an end, and on Thursday morning,
September 4th, we moored at the jetty here, and a few minutes later had been
welcomed to Australia by Mr. W. H. Terry and his private secretary, Miss Hinge, who
had come down to meet us. We were more than glad that the trip as over, for we were
weary of its continued monotony.
When the ship reached Adelaide a letter was brought me from Terry, in the course
of which he stated that, as the New Zealand friends were most anxious to secure a
visit from Mrs. Nellie Brigham prior to her return to the States, it had been arranged
for her to leave Australia the day on which the `Suevic' was due, and for me to
commence my work on the Sunday after my arrival, September 7th, instead of the
21st, as originally planned. The consequence was that we missed seeing our old and
134
dear friend, and Miss Cushman, for they had departed when we arrived. We were
fortunate, through the kindness of Miss Hinge, in finding pleasant location in the
pretty suburb of Hawksburn, quite close to Toorak, and here we expect to remain
while in Australia.
In accordance with the arrangements above referred to, my first appearance on the
platform here took place on Sunday, the 7th inst., in the large and handsome Masonic
hall, Collins-street, right under the shadow of the State Parliament buildings. My
chairman was Mr. Terry, the president of the Victorian Association of Spiritualists,
who, in a kindly and complimentary speech, introduced me to the Spiritualists and
others present. My audience consisted of nearly six hundred persons, eminently
respectable in appearance, and most intelligently appreciative. Since then the numbers
attending have considerably increased, and we anticipate quite filling the hall, which
holds eleven hundred persons. The `Melbourne Age' gave a nice report of ‘Tien's’
opening lecture, the first time for a number of years that the city Press has taken any
notice of the spiritual meetings here. The following night the association tendered a
public welcome to myself and Mrs. and Miss Morse, many nice things being said by
the various speakers. I responded as well as I was able to speak, with a serious sore
throat and a heavy cold hampering brain and voice. But a full account of all these
matters will appear in the `Harbinger of Light' for October, so there is no need to
enlarge upon them here.
In my next letter I will give some idea of the status of the cause in this city, by
which time I shall be in a better position to speak on that matter than at present. On
Sunday last I visited the Melbourne Children's Progressive Lyceum and found a very
fine and vigorous Lyceum at work. The appended address will find me until the end
of March next year, but, will my correspondents kindly note that letters are 2 ½ d. per
½ oz., and printed papers ½ d. for every 2oz.? I have already paid sundry fines upon
understamped letters and papers.
36, Surrey-terrace, Surrey-road,
Hawksburn, Melbourne, Australia.
September 23rd, 1902.
‘LIGHT’ Volume. XXII. Nov 1st
1902, page 519.
…………………………………………………………..
Second letter.
A LETTER FROM MR. J. J. MORSE.
Travelling is the best corrective for insularity and the surest method of teaching us
that there are more countries than one-even if that one be our own! To grasp the sig-
nificance of fresh environments it is often wisest to abandon familiar points of view
and to endeavour to become an observer who is at once a participator in, and spectator
of, the new conditions in which one finds oneself. The necessity of such a course of
proceeding becomes increasingly obvious to me if a clear understanding of the
condition of Australia is to be reached, for much of the political and industrial life
135
here is viewed from quite other points than those we are familiar with at home. But
my task is not a disquisition upon political economy, nor are the pages of `LIGHT'
suited to such work, even if it were my intention to engage in it. Later, and in another
form, it is my intention to narrate the results of my inquiries and observations
regarding the present position and future prospects of Australia and New Zealand, and
the inducements to settle out here, with the advantages to be secured by doing so. For
the present my desire is to fulfil my promise in the previous letter and say something
concerning our cause on this vast continent.
The facts must be stated under three heads - Australia at large, the State of Victoria
generally, and this city (Melbourne) particularly. The population of the continent is
some six millions; the leading cities are Freemantle, Perth, and Albany in the State of
West Australia; Adelaide, in South Australia; Melbourne, in Victoria ; Sydney, in
New South Wales, and Brisbane, in Queensland. But at the time of writing, so far as I
am able to ascertain, the only active society in operation in Victoria is in Melbourne!
There are two small bodies in Perth, but only one of these appears to be alive-the
West Australian Spiritualists' Society, whose president, Mr. R. M. M. Hamilton, sent
me a letter of welcome when the steamer reached Albany. Mr. Hamilton said: 'We are
only a small and struggling society here, but we could get an audience for you if you
could manage to come back via Freemantle. We are a feeble folk, and need a good
speaker to stir up the dry bones here.' As my route home is via San Francisco and
New York, it will not be possible, I fear, for me to visit the friends, as Freemantle is
some two thousand miles from Melbourne, and in the opposite direction to my
intended route home. The work in Adelaide, which place is called `the Holy City,' has
again collapsed, the society is disbanded, and the members are scattered. In Sydney,
N.S.W., I am told, there is one society, with a Mr. Bradley as the regular speaker; a
Lyceum in good order, and several small meetings held by mediums on their own
account; also an organisation called `The Church of the Seers,' presided over by
Madame Pattey. I believe there was lately another society, but am told it recently
disbanded. In Brisbane there is no organisation, but there are a goodly number of
Spiritualists, I am told. I simply state the facts as they stand; while I have my opinions
as to the causes of these facts, I prefer at present to inquire further before expressing
them.
As regards this State, Victoria, the position is not inspiring. What efforts were
made in 'former days appear to be dead, and beyond resurrection. Societies formerly
existed at Castlemaine, Ballarat, Bendigo, and Geelong, all of which are within one
hundred miles of Melbourne. Now so utterly indifferent seem the people that it was
almost impossible to arouse enough interest to arrange a meeting for me in Geelong.
Roughly speaking, the dimensions of this State are, east to west four hundred and fifty
miles, north to south two hundred and fifty miles, with a superficial area of nearly
60,000,000 acres, while the population is more than one fourth of the whole continent,
with the islands of Tasmania and New Zealand included; yet while this area
approximates to what would be included in a district bounded by Hull and Liverpool,
and Dover and Glasgow, yet, so far as I can ascertain, Melbourne is the only city in
which an organised society is to be found! I am told there are numbers of Spiritualists
in the city and State; - it may be so, but their public support of the work is not
strikingly conspicuous.
136
Take the case of my people, the Victorian Association of Spiritualists. Nothing is
lacking to ensure the most successful working of the present special meetings. The
trustees of the Thousand Pounds Fund - under which the meetings are held - have
provided a beautiful hall in one of the very best localities. There is an excellent choir,
capably directed by an efficient organist. Old and tried workers such as Dr. Peebles,
Mrs. Nellie J. T. Brigham, and myself, have been retained, and yet the audiences
seldom exceed six hundred, and average, say, three hundred and fifty people. The
admission is free, with a collection, so there is no difficulty on that score. Yet at one
time it was easy to fill a theatre on Sunday evening. True, there are a few mediums
who hold circles upon Sunday evenings, but their number is not sufficient to create
any serious counter attraction. The Lyceum also conducts an evening meeting on
Sundays, which, doubtless, draws some from the Masonic Hall meetings, but in a city
of 500,000 there should be room enough for two gatherings of our people.
The tone of the Victorian Association of Spiritualists' meetings is all that can be
desired; it is dignified, refined, and attractive; stands for all that is best in the work; is
lofty and spiritual in aim and tendency. Mr. W. H. Terry, the president, strives
indefatigably to secure success, is most faithful and devoted to his work, and is
deserving of all praise for his long self-sacrificing labours, for he spares neither time,
toil, nor purse in all he does for the cause. The committee is, also, constant in aiding
the work, yet the response is not of the nature, or extent, which the efforts put forth
deserve. I am told that, there are many causes to account for the above facts; that
times are bad, very bad indeed, which is doubtless the case; that there is a lack of
unity, and some things in the nature of `family jars'; that some former wealthy
supporters have `passed away'; that others still remaining in the flesh have, from
various causes, withdrawn their support in person and in purse; and that there have
been some events which have caused discouragement. But to my mind none of these
go to the root of the matter, though they are each undoubtedly contributory in degree,
especially the hard times now prevailing, for a condition of severe financial
depression certainly exists.
In the past certain adventurers have exploited the city, who, with the pretensions of
propounding something `higher' (?) than mere Spiritualism, led many astray with
assumptions which they labelled as `occult truth,' metaphysics,' pretended
`Theosophy,' and imitation `Rosicrucianism,' with rueful results to many a life and
pocket. Only last week one of these human vultures was sentenced to seven years'
hard labour for fleecing a simple-minded woman out of £1,000. Quite unjustly, these
matters are piled upon our cause; the victims become disgusted, retire to private life,
and the public cry, `That's what your Spiritualism leads to!' The Press refuse us
notice, and discord and disgust ensue as a natural consequence.
I know of members of the Government, and of Parliament, men of high
commercial position also, who are Spiritualists, but they tell me they dare not let it
become known. The reasons they allege include what I have already stated. One
cannot help thinking that if such people had a little more backbone, and would
publicly identify themselves now as formerly with the work, the Press and the public
would soon realise that Spiritualism was in no wise responsible for the swindles
perpetrated in its name; while, if a certain class of alleged Spiritualists were less
willing to run after every `teacher' who comes without any credentials from some
137
recognised body of our people, our numbers would increase, and our position rapidly
improve all round.
All this is written in no spirit of complaint, but merely as a temperate statement of
facts that cannot be ignored with honour or safety. On all sides I am told of the
disunion, discord, and difficulty connected with the work here, and, coupled with
these statements, are earnest requests for me to help to create improved conditions.
But to do so would mean a far longer stay than I can arrange for, and a free hand in
many directions.
The `Melbourne Spiritualistic Progressive Lyceum,' to give it its full title, meets in
a comfortable building, the Odd Fellows' Hall, and its regular sessions are well
attended each Sunday morning. The officers appear energetic and progressive. I have
attended several times and have been and enthusiastic soirée was held. Every alternate
Sunday afternoon they hold a mediums' meeting, and at night a public lecture. What
those meetings are like I do not know, as it is not practicable for me to be present; but
I am told they are well attended.
So far as Australian mediumship is concerned I am not yet in a position to write.
But I recently attended one of Mrs. Risings' meetings and found her mediumship truly
remarkable and convincing. But as this letter is already over long I must reserve a
detailed account of a most note worthy séance until my next communication. My aim
is to present a faithful account of the state of affairs here, though it is not always the
lot of the careful chronicler to please; but nothing set out herein can reasonably offend
any who know the truth as I have endeavoured to state it in this letter.
Melbourne, November 4th, 1902.
To be continued…………..
‘LIGHT’ Volume. XXII. December 13th
1902, page 593.
…………………………………………………………..
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues
on the web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our
Australian friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free
and direct by sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com
or “ Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail. psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
138
