{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 6665","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n55_dec_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N55 December 1888","mylang":"de"}
No. LV.-VOI.. III. DECEIIBER, 1888.
,JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CON TEN T S. PAGE
New Associates .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 345
Proposed Memorial to Mr. Ethnund Gurney . . . . 345
Meetina' of the Council . . . . . . . . . . 346
GE'neral Meeting .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. ... 346
Some Remarks on Profel'SOr Richet's Experiments on the Po"sibility of Clairvoyant per-
ception of Dmwings.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. 348
Cases received by the Literary Committes . . 355
Notes .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 360
NEW ASSOCIATES.
CONSTABLE, M. S., Wassand, Hull.
DILL, ROBERT C. GORDON, M.A., Isthmian Club, Grafton-street,
London, W.
SMITH, G. A., Manstone Cottage, St. Lawrence, Kent.
PROPOSED MEMORIAL TO MR. EDMUND GURNEY.
It has been suggested by a member of the Society far Psychical
Research that it would be fitting to commemorate Mr. Gurney's work
in Psychical Research by dedicating to his name some branch of the
Society's library, and raising a fund to make the department more
complete. The Council gladly accept the suggestion, and (with the
approval of Mr. Gurney's family) propose that any books of value
already in the library which bear on Hypnotism and kindred subjects
should be known as the" Edmund Gurney Library," and bound and
stamped accordingly.
The subject of Hypnotism has been selected, partly because it was
in this direction that lOuch of Mr. Gurney's most valuable and original
work was done; and partly because it is a branch of research now
widely recognised as of high scientific importance, and on which every
year produces new pUblications of value. The Society's collection of
books on Hypnotism is incomplete, and many fresh works will need to
be added both at once and, in all probability, for many years to come.
The Oouncil in fact would be glad, if possible, to expend in each year
only the interest of the fund to be collected. It is proposed that all
books thus purchased shall continue to form part of the "Edmund
Gurney Library," and that the employment of the funds raised shall be
entrusted to the Library Committee of the Society for Psychical
Research for the time being. Donations are invited both from
2 D
Digitized by Google
346 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Dec., 1888.
members of the Society for Psychical Research and from other friends
of Mr. Gurney's, who may be glad of this opportunity of doing
honour to his memory. The Rev. A. T. Fryer, 3, Vernon-pl&\"'e,
Bloomsbury, W.O., has kindly consented to act as treasurer, and will
receive any sum entrusted to. him for the" Edmund Gurney Library
Fund."
FREDERIC \V. H. MYERS,} Hon. Secs. Society
FRANK PODMORE, for Psychical Research.
November, 1888.
MEETING OF THE OOUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Oouncil held at the Society's Rooms, on
November 16th, the following Members were present :-The President
(in the chair), Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. F. W. R. Myers and
Frank Podmore.
Three new Associates, whose names and addresses are given on the
previous page, were elected.
Informa.tion was received with regret of the death of the Rev. P.
H. Newnham, a Member of the Society, and also of Mr. Oharles A.
Pitcher, an AssoCiate. It was resolved that a letter of sympathy be
written to Mrs. Newnham.
A proposal as to a memorial to Mr. Edmund Gurney, fully ex-
plained above, was agreed to.
Various matters of routine business were attended to.
It was agrE.'ed tha.t the Annual Business Meeting of the Members
of the Society be held on Friday, January 25th, 1889, and also that a
General Meeting be held on the evening of the same day.
The next Meeting of the Oouncil will be held on Monday,
December 17th.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town Hall, on
November 16th, Professor Sidgwick, the President of the Society, in
the chair.
A paper was read from Professor Charles Richet, of Paris,
on some experiments of his own on "lucidity" or "clairvoy-
ance," made with Madame B., a hypnotic subject well known
to French physicians. He found that she could frequently
recognise an ordinary playing card unknown to anyone present and
Digitized by Google
Dec.,1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 347
enclosed in two thick envelopes. His method was to select a
card at random, and without looking at it, from a pile of ten packs,
to enclose this in an envelope (and in a second series of experi-
ments in two envelopes), which he gummed down and handed to
Madame R, whom he had previously hypnotised and who remained
under his eye throughout the experiment. This was often very
tedious, hours sometimes elapsing before she professed to know the
card. In most cases she only attempted to name the suit, and was
often wrong, but out of the 15 trials in which she completely
described the card she was right 12 times-the second envelope
not reducing the proportion of complete and successful guesses. After
she had named the card, Professor Richet examined the envelope
to see whether it was intact. He thinks that the hypotheses of
visual or tactile hyperresthesia are neither of them admissible, and
inclines to believe that she discerns the cards by the exercise of some
faculty as yet imperfectly known. He intends to continue his
experiments.
The reading of Professor Richet's paper was followed by some dis-
cussion on the details of the experiments.
MR. PonMoRE remarked that Madame B. might conceivably have
deceived Professor Richet in two ways. She might have brought with
her envelopes similar to his own, enclosing cards which she knew, and
then substituted these envelopes for his. Or she might have opened
his envelope, taken out the card, looked at it, and placed it in an
envelope of her own. It did not appear that Professor Richet had
himself marked his envelopes beforehand.
MR. BARKWORTH referred to the experiments with Mr. Davey as
showing the extreme difficulty of maintaining continuous attention
even for 20 minutes. Professor Richet's continuous attention was
needed for some hours together, and at dead of night.
MR. H. A. SMITH remarked that in this case fraud on Madame
B.'s part would imply preparation; but that, judging from other
accounts of the intermixture of her psychical states, her hypnotic self
might be responsible for the preparation as well as for the definite act
of fraud, if fraud were committed.
MR. F. W. H. MYERS remarked that the most striking incident in
Professor Richet's paper-the perception by Madame R of an
accident with bromine in Professor Richet's laboratory-was beyond
the reach of fraud. He had had the opportunity some years ago of
examining the records of some similar clairvoyant perceptions (as it
seemed) of Madame R's, which occurred at Havre, but had not yet
been published.
The PRESIDENT said that his general confidence in Professor
2n2
Digiti G ~le
348 Journal of Society for Pgychical Research. [Dec.,I888.
Richet's skill and caution in experimentation was as great as, o~
greater than, the confidence which he would feel had the experiment.
been his own; at the same time he acknowledged the force of the
objections that had been made that evening to the card experiments.
A paper was also read on "The Connection of Hypnotism with the
Subjective Phenomena of Spil'it'ualism," giving an account of observa-
tions and experiments on the production of local anresthesia, muscular
rigidity, and delusions, by self-suggestion. It was argued, among other
things, that the trance utterances of "mediums," when there is real
and not only pretended abnormality of condition during the utterance,
may be the result of self-suggestion inducing a somnambulic state,
combined with a tendency to impersonate some deceased person or
supposed spirit, on whom the mind of the medium had been previously
fixed. There may thus be no conscious deception, while yet the words
uttered are the product of the medium's own mind, just as much as if
they were uttered in obedience to a suggestion given by a hypnotiser.
MR. VICTOR HORSLEY said that he had been very much interested in
the paper, and thought that the facts of auto-suggestion which had
been presented in it offered a promising field for further study. Of
the phenomena of self-induced anresthesia he should be glad to learn
more. It was a generalisation at which M. Charcot had arrived in
cases of hysterical anresthesia, and the same result had been reached
by direct experiment. on the cortex of the brain, that the anresthesia was
not less than segmental, that is to say, did not extend over shorter areas
of the body than between joint and joint, though it might be sometimes
confined to one side or the oth~r of what was termed a segment. He
should be glad to know if the same had been observed in these cases
of anresthesia arising from auto-suggestion. Of the general method
and objects of the experiments he expressed warm approval.
SOME REMARKS ON PROFESSOR RICHET'S EXPERI-
MENTS ON THE POSSIBILITY OF CLAIRVOYANT
PERCEPTION OF DRAWINGS.
By A. F. BALFOUR.
I am impelled to make the following remarks upon that part of
Professor Richet's valuable paper in Proceedings, Part XlI., pp. 55-116,
which relates to experiments with drawings, because those experiments
interested me very much, and, as affording evidence of "lucidity," or
clairvoyance, seem to me decidedly encouraging-more so in some
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1888.] Journal of Society fm' Psychical Research. 349
'instances tha.n M. Richet allows.* I am, therefore, anxious that they
should be repeated under even better conditions, and should like toO
suggest to those who may have the opportunity of repeating them,
certain points in which I think they might be improved.
The most important of these is that the original drawings should be
more carefully done, by a person accustomed to draw clearly and
accurately; and that they should represent definite objects (e.g., a fork,
a cock, a cow, a letter of the alphabet, a house), which can be named in
one or two words, and not easily mistaken for other objects, and which
are familiar by sight and by name to comparatively uneducated persons.
If any geometrical figures are used, these should be of the simplest kind
in shape, and such as have well known names. Further, the drawings
should be very simple, so that they may be fully taken in at a glance,
which wculd exclude photographs such as Figs. 16 and 19; they should
be known for what they are in whatever position they come before the
percipient, upside down or otherwise (Fig. 53, representing an extin-
tinguisher, may have been misinterpreted from being seen upside down,
and, I believe, the same may be said of Fig. 64, and perhaps of others),
and should never be larger than the real object, as, for instance, Fig. 32
is, if it represents a die, which I conclude it does.
I think also that the drawing should never be folded, as this
introduces a.n ambiguity, and that care should be taken to have nothing
inside or outside the envelope containing it, such as seals, notes of
dA.tes, &c., which may confuse the percipient, or .:omplicate the
experiment.
It seems to me very likely, that had these points been attended to
many of the percipient's own drawings would have borne a much greater
resemblance to the original drawings than they do. Moreover, since the
original drawing could be easily described, there would be no necessity
for representing the percipient's impression by a drawing-a great
advantage in the case of a percipient not accustomed to draw;
especia.llyas we should thus avoid, not onlythe defects arising out of her
own bad drawing, but the still more serious ones which, as it appears to
me, may arise (I) from her influencing her impression by her own
description and then drawing the altered and not the original impres-
sion, and (2) out of the attempts of other persons to realise her ideas and
express them in a drawing. M. Richet's experiments-so far as they tend
to prove clairvoyance-tend also to show, I think, that the perception
clairvoyantly obtained is of an indistinct and evanescent kind, easily
• I should 8el~t as the most encouraging experiments, numbers IV.,
pp. 82, 83;VI., pp. 85,86;·XI., pp. 91, 92; XIII., pp. 93,94; XVII., p. 97; XVIII.,
p. 98; XXIV., pp. 102, 103; XXXIV., p. 107; XXXV., p. 107; XXXVIII.,
pp. HI, 112; all in the second !leries.
Digitized by Google
350 Journal oj Society for Psychical ile8eu1'ch, [Dec,. 1888.
effaced or confused by ideas otherwise introduced. Other persons in the
room, who are trying to understand the percipient's description, may
introduce such erroneous ideas either by words, or by drawings, or even
by thought-transference, and I think that they probably have done so
in some instances. For this reason the hypnotiser and other persons
present should, while putting down the percipient's words, try to
prevent themselves as far as possible from endeavouring to interpret
these words,-as they must do,for instance, if they wish to draw the idea
suggested-and should never speak a word having any reference to what
the percipient describes, while the experiment is going on.
I will now try to justify the above remarks by discussing some of
the drawings and experiments in detail, under the heads of
I. Defects in the original drawings.
II. Complications in the experiments.
III. Ideas suggested to the percipient by other persons present.
I ought to say at the outset that I have not gone into the question of
the possibility of perception by the senses in the ordinary way-
(conscious or unconscious deception),-but have assumed that
M. Richet's precautions against this were adequate except where he
states the contrary.
I. Cases where defects in the original drawings have possibly inter-
fered with success.
The original drawings fail in several ways, but first and foremost in
being for the most part so imperfectly drawn, that it is not always
easy even for a person under ordinary conditions to say what they are
meant to represent; and for persons under extraordinary conditions
one would think it must be almost hopelessly difficult. Indeed, what
surprises me most is to find how often the percipient does seem to have
made something out of them approximating to the originals. Take for
instance the following drawings :-Fig. 42 is called a serpent; it is quite
as like the edge of a frill. Fig. 45 is a mere collection of crooked lines.
Fig. 56 is more like a flower-bud (seen in a foreshortened position) with
a stalk, than a cat. One almost requires to be told that Fig. 58 repre-
sents a ship. Fig. 60 iii! as much like a wig on a stand as a tree, and
Fig. 71 is little more than an irregular patch of cross-hatching. It does
not surprise me in the least to find that the percipient calls Fig. 45
"a heart with two bars, or balloon with its cradle," instead
of a face; or Fig. 49 a butterfly instead of a palette,-very slight
alterations in the lines will make it an undoubted butwrfly; or
Fig. 62 a window or frame instead of a flag; or Fig. 64 a crown instead
of a table (of course, you must put it upside down); or Fig. 72 a
'-ase with a fountain or flowers in it instead of a cray-fish ; or Fig. 76
It ladder instead of a fan. In some cases these drawings are com-
Digitized by Go
Dec.• 1888.J Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 351
paratively carefully done, such as Fig. 62 (the flag), 72 (the cray-fish),
76 (the fan), and 86 (a balloon), but even then they are not sufficiently
characteristic at once to convey their meaning.* Some drawings again
are not representations of definite objects (as Figs. 51 and 26), and
others (as Figll. 37 and 78) are nameless elaborate geometrical figures,
almost impossible to describe in words, and very difficult to draw from
recollection.
I think I see considerable evidence for another important result
already mentioned, following, but less directly, from the imperfection of
the original drawings. The percipient not unfrequently draws, not
what she may have perceived of the original drawing, but something
apparently suggested to her by her own description of what she per-
ceiv8'i. Thus her drawing may have little or no resemblance to the
original, and yet may show evidence for lucidity. Some such cases
seem to be considered by M. Richet as almost failures. I should
consider them partial successes. My regret is then great, for I think it
highly probable that had the original drawings been well done and
easily described in one or two words, we should have had first-rate
evidence for luc·idity.
The most remarkable instance of the percipient drawing what she
described and not what she may clairvoyantly have seen is
Exp. XIII., pp. 93-4. Weare told that the original drawing (Fig. 56)
is a cat, but as I said before, it is quite as like a foreshortened flower-
bud with a stalk, and it is as a "flower with a stalk" that the
percipient describes it. She then makes a drawing of a flower on a
stalk, which has no resemblance whatsoever to the original drawing,
yet it is ap. undoubted representation of her description.
Out of the eighteen cases in the second series of experiments (pp.
77-112), where the percipient's a.ttempts to draw what she perceives are
given, ten, or possibly twelve, a.ppear to me to show traces of the above
process. I should especially call attention in this respect to Exps.
IX., pp. 89, 90; X., pp. 90, 91; XI., pp. 91, 92; XIV., pp. 94, 95;
XVIII., pp. 98, and more doubtfully to Exps. XII., pp. 92, 93, and
XXX VII., pp. II0, llI. The first series of experiments need notbe
considered under this head, as they were professedly not carried out
under conditions excluding thought-transference and therefore afford no
test of clairvoyance.
* The dragon-lI.y of Exp. XXXII., p. 107, of which the original drawing is
not given us, may be another case of this. If this dragon-lI.y was drawn with
wings extended at right angles to the body, as dragon-lI.ies generally are, may
it not be these wings rather than the eyes which the percipient described as
" deux ovales tres rapproches comme deux lunettes"!
Digitized by Google
352 Journal oj Society JOT Psychical Resea1'ch. [Dec., 1888.
II. The objection to complications in the experiment is well
shown by Exp. VII., p. 68. Here the original drawing is a circle
with a transverse bar. The percipient talks of seeing photographs, and
on being told that she is wrong, adds that she sees something brilliant
like varnish. On being then told that there is a seal, she describes the
letters OB. it correctly. She also says there is writing inside, and makes
a few rough horizontal lines of different lengths to describe the general
form of the lines of writing. Her ot.her remarks are not to the point.
At first sight one is struck by her sa-ying she sees something brilliant,
and by her correctly describing the letters on the seal; also by the
statement, which turns out to be true, that there is writing. But
these lose all their value when we find that she might possibly have
seen the seal and the writing, or, if this were not so, we reflect that she
might at any rate have felt the seal. From that to guessing the
letters-the initials of a man whom she very likely knew to be interested
in the experiments-is not a very surprising step; nor is it strange that
she should guess there was writing.* Of the drawing she sees nothing.
Thus, then, this experiment is rendered completely useless, owing to the
complications of a seal and writing being introduced into it, without
intention, and therefore without precaution.
Somewhat Rimilar complications occurred in Exp. I., pp. 57, 58,where
there i& a note of date on the drawing, which may be what the per-
cipient refers to in the words "Comme un escalier"; and in Exp. IV.,pp.
63-6lS, where the postage stamps on the inside envelopes and the folded
drawing may both have influenced the result, as M. Richet points out.
~propos to folding, I may remark that in Exp.VII., p. 86, thepercipient's
description would be very good if the original drawing was folded half-
way across and then seen like a transparency, and the same is true of the.
description in Exp. XXXIII., p. 107. It would be interesting to know
whether these drawings were folded.
III. Proceeding next to the cases where the intervention of some
person present other than the percipient have, it seems to me, injured
t.he experiment, I may cite Exp. XXVI., p. 104, as a good example of
the class in which the interposition of the hypnotiser, by word, has
done harm. The drawing to be described is intended to represent a
fan, but it is quite as like the bird's·eye view or ground plan of part of
a spiral staircase. The percipient says she sees "une Echelle," not of
an ordinary kind, but" adaptee 8. quelque chose." M. Richet suggests a
house, and although she answers no, that idea takes poslWssion of her
mind, and she immediately draws a house, and adds a curved set of
*If she saw the writing she might perhaps know it for M. Rondeau's, and in
that case would at once gncsR the initials on the seal.
Digitized by Google
Dec.,ll!88.] JouTnal of Society fo'r PlJyckical 1telJea1·ch. 353
steps leading to the house, as if she still retained a dim recollection of
the curve of the steps derived from the original drawing. Is it not
quite likely that she would have drawn something much more like the
spiral staircase or fan of the original had her ideas not been altered by
M. Richet's rema.rk 1
Perhaps it cannot be absolutely asserted that the hypnotiaer ha.s, by
his own drawings from the percipient's descriptions, seriously affected
for the worse the results of the experiments, but it may be safely said
that only in one case (Exp. X., p. 72) has he helped the interpretation of
the percipient's words by his drawings. Anyone who will look at Fig.
60, representing a tree, and Fig. 88, representing a swallow, and will
then note tha,t the percipient's description of the tree is translated by
M. Richet into a wreath, while her description of the swallow suggests
to him a collection of lines intended to represent the head of a parrot,
will agree in thinking that the drawings done from the percipient's
description are worse than useless.
More important are the cases in which I would suggest that
transference of thoughts coming either consciously or unconsciously
into the mind of a person in the room while the experiment is going on
has perhaps taken place.
Exp. VII., pp. 86,87, may be an instance of transference of thought
which consciously entered the mind of the hypnotiser during the experi-
ment. The original drawing is supposed to represent a serpent. The two
things M. Richet thinks of, while the percipient is making vague and
incomprehensible remarks on what she perceives, are (1) a caduceus and
(2) a book-plate representing an anchor with two serpents interlacing
it, surmounted' by the cap of Mercury. Neither of these, however,
have any resemblance to the original drawing (unless this was folded
across, see above). But is it not possible that the ideas of a caduceus
and of the book-plate were transferred from M. Richet's mind to
that of the percipient, and that it is owing to this that the latter
part of her remarks forms a very good descript.ion of the book-plate as
figured (Fig. 44) 1 To put it shortly, may she not have described M.
Richet's idea and not the drawing 1 I cannot think that the original
drawing, having been intended to represent a s'Jrpent-and one requires
to be told that such is the fact-ean have had anything to do with M.
Richet's thinking of the serpents entwining the caduceus and the
anchor on the book-plate. It is far more likely thbot the percipient's
word's •• un nreud entrelace . des ronds entrelaces," suggested
the form both of caduceus and book-plate; the fact of the noo1uu
entrelaceB on them being serpents, being merely a coincidellce.
Exp. III., pp. 61-63, is, perhaps, an instance of transference of uncon-
scious thought from an onlooker to the percipient. M. Rericourt gives
Digitized by Google
354 Jov/lonal of Society fm' PtJychical RetJea'l·clt. [Dee., 1888.
as the object to be described a rough drawing of a photograph frame,
suggested by one containing a photograph of himself at his own house.
The percipient describes the likeness of a man in uniform in a frame,
and the description applies, on the whole, well to the photograph of M.
Hericourt, who W9S, lit the time it was taken, a. military doctor. It
seems to me that M. Hericourt must have unconsciously had in his mind
the whole effect of the frame with his photograph inside it, and not the
frame alone; and if so, that his unconscious thought may have been
transferred to the percipient, who described it accordingly. It may be
noted that the percipient describes the frame as "un cadre avec un
ovale dans Ie cadre." It would be interesting to know whether the
original frame had an oval inside it or not. If it had, this is a valuable
addition to the description. M. Richet thinks there is an indication of
lucidity in this experiment, but onthe supposition of thought-transference
there would be no evidence for lucidity, M. Hericourt having been
present the whole time.
Transference of unconscious thoughts may also have occurred,
as M. Richet suggests, in Exp. IV., pp. 63-66.
Reference to a ca.se (Exp. XV!., pp. 95,96) looking like thought-
transference, which did not, however, influence the image of the original
drawing as apparently seen by the percipient, comes in fitly here. The
original drawing (Fig. 60, already mentioned) reprE'sents a tree, some-
what in the style of the "King Charles's Oak" which you see on cutting
a hracken stem near the roots. The opening words of the percipient's
description suggest a laurel wreath to M. Richet. Thereupon the
percipient says, "The shape is not that of laurel leaves-they are not
pointed leaves," and ends by saying there is "nothing in the middle."
M. Richet then draws something intended to be a wreath, but the
percipient does not understand what it is meant for. She sees some-
thing she cannot easily describe, but it is different from M. Richet's
idea and drawing suggested by l~tJr first word8. Hence her non-
comprehension of his drawing and her words about the laurel and
pointed leaves. It seems to me possible that thought-transference and
partial lucidity were here simultaneous, but did not interfere with
each other ;-that she saw something more or less like the tree, and she
also saw M. Richet's conception, which she combats as being inaccu-
rate; but the t~o were separate in her mind. Can, however, the thought-
transference have begun to overpower the lucidity when she says at the
end" Rien au milieu "-a remark that is eminently untrue of the tree,
and true of the wreath 7 This experiment has, perhaps, more interest
regarded as affording evidence of thought-transference than of
clairvoyance; but the experiments taken as a whole certainly suggest
the existence of a clairvoyant faculty.
Dec.,I888.] Journal of Society for P8ychwltl Re8ea1'ch. 535
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
At a recent meeting of the Society the question was raised whether
the faculties of receiving telepathic impreBBions, through hallucinations.
or otherwise, appeared ever to be hereditary. There is certainly BOme
evidence that it is, as the following cases among others will show.*
Experiences in the family of Mrs. Treloar, of River, Dover, taken
down by F. W. H. M., from a conversation with her and her sister,
Mrs. Gardiner, April 4th, 1888, and revised and signed as correct by
the two ladies aforesaid.
L.819. Adpn
Our mother, Mrs. Cowpland, wife of the Rev. Robert Cowpland, late
of Weeford Rectory, Staffordshire, on three occasions, and, we believe, on
those three occasions only, saw a hallucinatory figure. On all three occaaiona
the apparition coincided with the death of the person seen. On the first
two occaaions both of us heard of the apparition from our mother before the
death was known ; on the thin! occasion Mrs. Treloar alone so heard of it.
I. In 1857 our mother was bending over a chest of drawers in her
bedroom, and on turning round saw, as she thought, her brother-in-law, the
Rev. William Cowpland, rector of Acton Beauchamp, Worcestershire,
standing by her side. She exclaimed, "Ah, William! When did you
arrive 1" Next day a telegram came, saying he had been found dead in
bed. The coincidence as to hour could not be traced. My mother mentioned
the apparition to us both, at once, before the telegram came; and the matter
was frequently spoken of afterwards.
II. In 1860, or thereabouts, she heard a footstep, and went into the
hall, and returned and told my father and us that she had seen William
Dunn, a gardener at the house of some relatives of ours. We did not know
that he was ill, but afterwards heard that he had died about the time
that my mother saw him, and had expreued a wish to see her. We believe
that the coincidence of hour was clearly made out.
III. In 1862, my mother, being in bed, told me that she had seen
a Mrs. F., a connection of ours, standing at the foot of her bed, and
was sure she was dead, though we did not know that she was ill. This was
in fact the case ; and the hour in this case, too, was found to coincide. Mrs.
F. had been mixed up in affairs with my mother, but there was no special
affection. .
Here follow some cases of shrieks heard before death, of which the
particulars will be found in Mrs. Sidgwick's paper on "The Evidence
for Premonitions," to be published in Proceedings, Part XIII. The
narrative proceeds :-
* See also in this connection "he cases referred to in Phantasms of tAe
Living, Vol II., p. 132, footnote.
Digitized by Google
356 Jotwnal of Society fur P8yc!t,ical .Resea1·ch. [Dec., 1888.
L. 820. Ae PI1 [SIMULTANEOUS ApPARITIONS.]
In connection with this sister's death an event of another kind
occurred to myself and a niece, Miss Maud Cowpland :-
On August 26th, 1885, Mr. Treloar and I,then living at The Firs,
Bromyard, dined with my brother, the Rev. W. Cowpland, who had succeeded
my uncle in the rectory of Acton Beauchamp. Mr. Treloar's letter of March
3rd, 1888, will describe what happened.
"My wife and I were dining with my brother-in-law, and there met my
wife's sister, who lived a short distance from the recoory. It was a very lively
party, and thIs lady was in the best of health and spirits. It was on a
Wednesday, and as we left the house my wife promised to drive over to see
her shortly, at her own house (Upper House, Bishop'S Frome), where she
resided alone. On the Tuesday following, in the evening, about eight
o'clock, my wife, who had been in the nursery during the half-hour the nurse
was having her supper, went into our bedroom, where there was a lamp
burning on the dressing-table; and as she passed the bed, in going round to
the other end of the room, she saw, as she thought, a black dress on the
other side of the bed, but on looking again, a figure slowly rose up from what
appeared a bent position, and looked straight at her for the space of three or
four seconds; and she then recognised her sister. Her face was very pale,
and had a look of anguish on it. My wife came downstairs, and I noticed that
she seemed troubled, and on asking her what had upset her, she told me. I,
of courst', thought it must have been a delusion. Next evening (Wedntlsday,
September 2nd), just as we were sitting down to dinner, the groom of our
doctor came to the house and said his master wished to see me. I went down
and found him just about to start for my sister-in-Iaw's residence, as he told
me that she had sent for him, and from what he could learn she was in a
most dangerous state from diphtheria. She died two days afterwards, and
my wife never saw her, as it was, in the doctor's opinion, running too great
a risk."
This account is correct, but does not state that just as I had told him of
the apparition, Illy niece, Miss Maud Cowpland, who was staying with us,
came rushing downstairs from her bedroom, whither she had gone a few
minutes before-and simultaneously I began to tell her what I had seen,
and she, scarcely heeding me, burst out, " I've seen Auntie Annie! I've
seen Auntie Annie!" [Mr. Treloar confirms this.] I did not question
her further then, but her letter appended shows what she saw. She left
the house next day, I believe partly on account of the fright. I had
never before seen, nor have I since seen, any apparition whatever, nor
have I had any other experience at all resembling those which I here
l'ecount. After the first moment, I was not alarmed by the vision of my
!lister Anne. She was so remarkably vigorous and full of life that the
idea of her death never occurred to me. In fact, what happened was this :
there was diphtheria in the parish, and she most imprudently kissed a
school-child Buffering from that disease. On the Tuesday evening (when
the figure was seen) she had retired early to her room, saying to her servants
that she had a bad cold. They were young, and there waa no one in her
house to whom she would have spoken confidentially as to her state. All
Digitized by Go
Dec., 1888.] Journal of Society /01' Psychical Research. 357
that can bEl known, then, of her condition at this moment is that ahe was
alone in her room-whether asleep or awak('l we do not know-and that
next day she sent for the doctor, and was fatally ill. There was a strong
affection between her and myself.
I may a,ld that the figure which I saw had a bonnet and veil on, the
veil being tied back round her bonnet, as was my sister's wont. The lamp
was bright, and so clearly did I see the figure that I observed the freckles on
the nose. My sister had fine, expresaive eyes, and their look in the appari-
tion was full of anxiety and pain. The figure did not disappear instan-
taneously, but seemed to thin away into air.
It is my belief that at many times of pain or crisis to one member
of our family others have had impresaionB of distresa, though at a distance.
I recall one incident of this. In 1870 my brother (since deceued) broke his
leg very badly when out hunting. The accident happened at about 4 p.m.
He was taken to an inn and lay there all night in real danger. On that day
Mrs. Gardiner, who was joining in a friendly gathering, felt a quite unique
depression from 4 p.m. onwards. And that night, contrary to my habit, I
could not sleep; and while lyinll; awake was astonished to see my father
come into my room and ask for somo help and comfort, as ho was sleepless
and in distresa. He was at that time in good health, and had never thus
appealed to me before. T got up and gave him some brandy and water
(which I had never done before), but all that night we both of us continued
causelessly wretched.
Miss Maud Cowpland dc.;cribes her experience as follows: -
April 14th, 1888.
The year my father died I went to spend a few days with my aunt, Mrs.
Treloar. The second night, after wishing her good-night, about a quarter-
past ten, I retired to my room, and while having my bath I felt an unseen
power compel me to turn towards a couch which stood at the foot of the
bed, at the head of which (I moan the couch) stood a figure dressed in crape,
whom I immediately recognised as Miss Cowpland, and exclaimed: "Why,
Aunt Annie, how is it you are here 1" Then the filrure gradually
disappeared.
In answer to questions Miss Cowpland adds:-
1. I have never seen anything before Miss Cowpland's appearance,
but often Mf!>re and afterwards, when alone, have felt people, or, I think I
should say spirits, around and near me. One afternoon last summer, a feel-
ing came over me as of a hand, with long, soft fingers, stroking my face.
2. The crape seemed to fall in thick folds from the crown of the head to
the ground, but those folds over the face, instead of hiding, threw the
features out most distinctly. I cannot say exactly how long it stayed;
perhaps half a minute; not longer.
3. I am ashamed to say I felt most horribly afraid.
I mentioned it to threo people, Mr. and Mrs. Treloar, and the servant,
whom I asked to sleep with me, as I was too much of a coward to do so alone
after that, in that particular room. Yes, I remember Mrs Treloar telling
me what she had leen; it was after that that I told her my experience.
Digitized by Go
358 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec.,1I!88.
L. 821.
Mr. Myers writes :-
"The following series of apparitions is of interest as illustrating the
tendency of veridical hallucinations to recur in the same family. The Ellis
family, here concerned, are in no way of an imaginative or emotional type.
They have given no attention to any phenomena of this type except those
actually occurring to themselves. To the best of the knowledge of the
surviving members of the family, none of the percipients concerned ever
experienced any other hallucinations. In the first case the precise night on
which the son saw the father's figure cannot now be recovered with certainty.
It was a few days after Christmas-about December 29th-and the Misses
Ellis feel sure that it coincided either with the last day of illness or the
day of the death of their father. The hO'lvr of the son's vision was about
a a.m., and considering the father's remarkable experience at a corre-
sponding 1!,(JUT in England, it seems not unreasonable to assume a connection
between the two incidents, and to class the case as " reciprocal." If it be 80
considered, the evidence of the Misses Ellis, who were with th~ father
when his vision occurred, is equal to first-hand for one side of the reciprocaJ
experience. An independent, and almost exactly concordant account of t.he
incident was sent to us by Mrs. Robert Ellis (widow of the son in Australia)
from her recollection of her husband's narration.
Brighton, June 23rd, 1887.
" I hear from Mrs. R. Ellis that you wish to have the account from us of
my father, who was dying in Kensington, seeing my brother Rollert, who
was at the time in Australia. It was on Wednesday, December 29th, 1869,
that my father, who was dangerously ill at the time, awoke from a sleep, and
raising himself up in the bed pointed and looked most intently to one corner
of the room and said to us (my sister Mary and me) , Look! don't you see 11t
is my poor boy Bob'a head! 'then turning to me he said, ' Norman Town, don't
forget, Gulf of Carpentaria.' He then sank back exhausted. This happened
about 3 p.:n. We found, after his death, he had entered the address in
red ink in his pocket book~my brother having left Bourke Town and goue
to Norman Town-so that the next packet of letters were sent there. My
father died on Thursday, December 30th, 1869. When my brother returned
home from Australia a few years after, he told us that one night, whilst
camping out, he had gone to rest and had slept, and he awoke seeing my
father's head distinctly in one part ofhis tent. It made such an impression on
him that he went to his mate in the adjoining tent and said, 'I have seen my
father, you must come and stay with me.' By the next mail he received my
letter telling him of my father's death.
My brother said it must have been about 3 a.m. when he saw my
father. Would not that correspond with our 3 p.m. 1 I always think
they must have seen 63Ch other all the same time."
{
ALICE ELLIS.
(Signed) MARY ELLIS.
In conversation with Mrs. Ellis, senior, and Mias Alice Ellis (at
43, Silswood-road, Brighton, November 2nd, 1888), I learnt that Mr. Ellis
Digitized by Google
Deo.,l888.] Journal oj Society JOT Psychical ReseaTch. 359
was in no degree delirious in his last days. He lay in a state of exhaustion,
from which the sudden movement and speech above described formed a
marbd, though momentary, rally. He was very deeply attachetl to the
absent son.
The next caee is given in Mrs. Robert Ellis' words, but was confirmed to
me by Mrs. Ellis, senior, and Miss Alice Ellis. It is, of course, not demon-
strable that the vision was more than purely subjective. But in connection
with the previous case it seems worth recording. The' three o'clock' was
taken by those present as 3 p.m., but it does not appear that they questioned
the dying man as to whether p.m. or a.m. was meant. He died at about
2.10 or 3.15 a.m. on the Wednesday.
"After the death of Mr. Robert Ellis, senior, which took place as before
stated on December 30th, 1869, at his house No. 29, Addison-gardens,
South Kensington (now re-numbered No. 11) his eldest son-who felt the loss
of his father very deeply-told his mother he had a. presentiment that he was
'the next to go.'
He, Mr. Lloyd Ellis, had symptoms of lung disease at the time but not
to a degree to lead his friends to expect a fatal termination soon. But his
health declined rapidly towards the end of the year, and in the month of
January, 1870, he was in a dyingstate.
Lying in an apparent sleep one night (one Monday night, I believe) he
woke up suddenly and asked his mother-' Where is my father l'
She answer~d him, tearfully, 'Lloyd dear, you know your dear father
is dead. He has been dead for more than a year now.'
, ~s he l' he asked. incredulously. 'Why! he was in the room just
now, and I ha\'e an appointment with him, three o'clock next Wednesday.
And Lloyd Ellis died at three o'clock on the following Wedttesday merning."
The next caee is almost on a par with first-hand, as Mrs. Robert Ellis,
whose account (abbreviated) follows here, was present with Mr. R. Ellis
when he saw the apparition, and observed his excitement, although she was
not informed till afterwards of its cause.
"In the autumn of the year 1875 my brother, John Phillips Clemes, a
mining engineer, left England and went to Northern Mexico, in the employ
of Senor Don Francisco Alsna,the proprietor of a silver mine in the Province
of Sonora. He left England with the full intention expressed to me of
remaining abroad but three years, although the position he filled· was an
-extremely lucrative ene.
Mr. Robert Ellis, to whom I was then engaged to be mluried, had made
the acquaintance of my brother whilst he was in London, and entertained
for him the warmest liking and respect. Indeed, the two men, though most
dissimilarin eharacter, had formed a sudden and warm friendship for each
other.
It was in Christmas week-Tuesday, December 19th, 1876,-and Mr.
Ellis had called to see me, and spend the evening, as he generally did, twice
a week. We were to have a small party of a few friends on Christmas Day,
Digitized by Google
3GO JO'U1"'yutl of Society for Pgychical Research. [I>P.c., 1888.
and on this evening I was diBcuuing BOme of the small festive arrangements
with him-the pudding especially as I remember, and laughing about It,
and we were both unusually mirthful. The hour was between 6 and '1
p.m, and we were alone in the drawing-room after tea, l'flr. Ellia beiDa
seated in a low occaa.ionlll chair with his back to the ioor.
I was standing beside him. and the room was brightly lit with guo Tsaw
him suddenly look over his shoulder with a startled, almost terrified. look,
two or three scared glances, and upon my asking him hurriedly what was the
matter, he paued his hand over his eyes, and stammered that he had
imagined he saw BOme one coming in at the door, which was standing slightly
ajar.
He refused to say any more, though I questioned him closely, and
declared it must have been something the matter with his eyes.
Two montha afterwards, when the sad truth was all known to me, Mr.
Ellis told me that what had occurred to startle him that evening was tllis.
As he was Bitting. a sensation came o\"er him of someone standing at
his back, and, lookinJ over his shoulder. he distinctly saw, for the space of a
few seconds, a tall. dark figure, a man's figure. draped in black, as it appeared.
He could not distinguish featurt-S in the brief time, and in his own agitation.
In the month of January, 18'17, there came the news, by telegram, of my
dear brother's Budden death by fever on Tuesday, the 19th of DecerMer. He
expired after being quite tmco1/,scw",., for fuurteen hours, at seven o'clock
in the evening."
NOTES.
The Fox Sisters, now Mrs. Kane and Mrs. Jencken, whoin 1848 were the
heroines of the "Rochester Knockings " with which the movemellt calloo
Modern Spiritualillm began, have been confessing to Reporters of American
newspapers and to American public audiences, that their performances have
been fraudulent from the beginning, and that the raps were made with their
toes. But little weight can be attached to what such people say on one side
or the other; but they seem to have given experimental demonstration of
their capacity to make raps in this way, and what thllY now state is entirely
in accordance with the results obtained by investigators as early as 1853. as
well as With .facts alleged by a connection of the Foxes in 1851.
An interesting case of "Telepathic Clairvoyance" is c()mmunicated to
Hphinx for November, by Professor Elliot Coues, of Washington. If the
percipient,-a hypnotic subject of Professor Coues, whose name is not
givon,---can be trusted, she becanle aware of his surroundings on a certain
evening, when he was at "party in a distant town in a curious way ;-partly
by verbal information received from an apparition of him which seemed to
stan:! beside her in her room and converse with her, and partly by a vision
of the party. Professor Coues had no cllrtesponding impression on his side,
and was awake and in full possession of his normal faculties at the time.
The form of the experience is an unusual one.
Digitized by Google
