{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v3_n6_jun_2007.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V3 N6 Jun 2007","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 3, No 6; JUNE 2007
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
New Emma Hardinge Britten Website 121
Reprint of Hardinge Six Lectures or Theology and Nature 123
The Valhalla of Spiritualism - Herbert Thurston 125
Spiritualism in Modern Japan (part two) – Mr. W Asano 136
Some Observations on Table-Moving – William Archer 138
Books for sale 143
How to obtain this Newsletter by email 143
=========================================
Psypioneer is pleased to announce that it is soon to open a
website dedicated to: -
EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN
May 2nd
1823 – October 2nd
1899
______________________
However, due to work commitments it will not be fully functional until September...
The site will be concerned with the life and works of Emma Hardinge Britten: -
editor, historian, occultist, Spiritualist medium, traveller, founder member of the
Theosophical Society, mesmeric subject for the Orphic Circle and more.
When fully functional, the site will welcome contributions from interested persons,
and help to build up a more stable, accurate historical record of this remarkable
woman.
Emma Hardinge Britten is by many Spiritualists regarded as simply a Spiritualist and
a medium! However, once you look closely into her life, it becomes a mystery in
itself. You become faced with many complications and contradictions; the conclusion
being that she was much more than a Spiritualist and a medium.
Much work that has unveiled some of the mystery surrounding her life has been
carried out by Robert Mathiesen, in ‘The Unseen Worlds of Emma Hardinge Britten:
Some Chapters in the History of Western Occultism’. This is part of the
‘Theosophical History Occasional Papers’ Volume IX.
121
Another fine contribution to the early years of Emma Hardinge is, John Patrick
Deveney’s ‘Astral Projection or Liberation of the Double and the Work of the Early
Theosophical Society’: this is also part of the ‘Theosophical History Occasional
Papers’ Volume VI. Both of these valuable works are available from: -
www.theohistory.org .
It is intended to start this site with uploading some works by Sirius which prompts the
important question, ‘Were Emma Hardinge Britten and Sirius one and the same?’ My
reply to this is “I do not know!”
Mathiesen points to Chevalier Louis de B [Ernest de Bunsen] as the anonymous
author of Art Magic and Ghost Land, both edited by Emma Hardinge Britten and
published in 1876 by her husband William Britten. Mathiesen mentions little about
Sirius, but he does state with certainly that ‘Sirius is Emma Hardinge Britten’s occult
pseudonym’.
This is what Emma Hardinge Britten said regarding Sirius: - taken from ‘The Two
Worlds’ edited by Emma Hardinge Britten March 23rd
1888, (Sirius was reviewing
‘Hallucinations and Apparitions’ printed in the same edition; this will appear on the
new site.)
[Note by the Editor T. W. - In delegating the task of reviewing the above report to the
writer, known in these columns as "Sirius," the Editor desires it to be understood that
she shrinks from no personal responsibility for whatever matter is printed in this
journal, but the gentleman writing under the above caption being the only profound
and thoroughly masterful OCCULTIST, who is also deeply imbued with the
significance and value of the modern spiritual outpouring, it seems to be a privilege
to obtain the assistance of his fluent pen on special occasions, which neither the
readers or Editor of The Two Worlds would willingly forego.]
Is this Emma Hardinge Britten writing about her self? ‘the only profound and
thoroughly masterful OCCULTIST,’
In another article: - Spiritual Gifts - No.1 ‘What Constitutes Spiritual Mediumship’
she goes further: -
Taken from ‘The Two Worlds’ April 27th
1888
……….. Taking the ground assumed by "Sirius," the author of Art Magic, and
strongly enforced by certain of our controlling spirits, we may say we consider that
the human body consists of matter, force and spirit. Matter, the mould, formative, and
external element. Force, the invisible but ever active life principle, which we shall call
magnetism; and Spirit, the interior and only intelligential element in the organism. As
it is with this second principle, magnetism, that we have now to deal, we shall confine
ourselves at present to a description of the attributes and operation of that special
element……………………..
If Sirius is indeed Emma Hardinge Britten as Robert Mathiesen asserted, did she
author Art Magic? That’s what Spiritual Gifts - No.1 states!
122
It is my hope that on these issues and many more, we will make substantial progress
in unravelling the true depths of the life and contributions made by a life time’s
work…Emma Floyd – Mrs Emma Hardinge – Mrs Emma Hardinge Britten
________________
SIX LECTURES
ON
THEOLOGY AND NATURE
By EMMA HARDINGE
Published in 1860
To commemorate the opening of the website, Psypioneer is re-publishing a facsimile
of this very rare title. Prior to this publication Emma Hardinge had published only
two small discourses of 12pp & 11pp respectively in 1859.
The book preface states: -
PREFACE
THE following series of Lectures was delivered in the course of three Sundays, during
the months of October and November, 1860, at Kingsbury Hall, Chicago, Ill. They
excited a wide and profound interest at the time; and the large audience that greeted
Miss Hardinge, on her first appearance - their deep attention and intelligent
appreciation, continued unabated throughout the series. The discourses were taken
down, as delivered, by R. R. Hitt, Esq., stenographic reporter of the Chicago Press
and Tribune; and are now published from his short-hand notes, without revision -
nothing having been suggested or added by the speaker, except the autobiographical -
introduction.
These six lectures were given at a time when Emma Hardinge had become critical of
Christianity. The book contains 160 pages and holds an interesting appendix together
with Emma Hardinge’s ‘Outline of a Plan for a Self-Sustaining Institution for
Homeless and Outcast Females………’
This is part of what Emma Hardinge says in the introduction: -
The subjects of these Lectures (though presented by me to a Chicago audience for
the first time) have formed the theme of address in one or two other places before -
such subjects being deemed by my guides of more importance as principles, (the
enforcement of which should be one main object of my teachings,) than the mere
capacity to make a speech, no matter what the subject, provided it was "something
new." For the first two years of my public teaching, I was chiefly exercised in the
phenomenal part of speech-making, generally submitting the subjects to the choice of
a committee formed on the spot, or presenting, through spirit direction, addresses
extemporized on every conceivable variety of subjects, the texts of which were very
123
frequently found in the events and surroundings of the hour, such as a flower laid on
the desk, the falling rain, or, still more commonly, a question proposed by some
stranger in the audience. "The day of phenomena is passing away," is the language of
one of my Guides, "and if you mediums would become the instructors, rather than the
wonder of your audiences, suffer us to enforce and repeat by `line upon line, and
precept upon precept,' such principles as will grow into fundamental truths in the
people's hearts." At the same time, however hackneyed the subject may be to myself or
others, I find that its treatment is singularly varied in adaptation to the different
classes of mind and intelligence that surround me. "Truths, laws and principles are
for all times, and revelation belongs to eternity. Its expression, however, must be
adapted to the time, place and person, or it is valueless."
This is another sentence by which my Guides have intimated their DISSENT from
the frequent propositions that have been made to me to publish my Lectures. "We
think for all time - but speak for the hour." "The thought will not perish, but the
words, gestures, intonation and present surroundings, being specially adapted to the
present hour, will serve but as a husk to enclose the living grain, rather than as the
daily bread which each hour demands, if it be written or preserved in stereotyped
gospels. "Why then, it may be asked, do I depart from so wholesome a provision
against the infliction of "stereotyped gospels," upon a growing people whose minds
cannot fail to overleap the fetters of stationary books?
This is my answer: At the close of these Lectures, I was introduced to a gentleman,
who, I found, had hired a reporter at his own expense, to transcribe them, and
conceiving that they would benefit the world in the same proportion as he had himself
profited, be generously determined to bear all the risk and expense of publication,
and by presenting them in the most attractive form possible, add to the good which be
supposed their perusal might produce, a surplus fund, which he nobly dedicated to the
promotion of a great philanthropic undertaking in favor of forlorn, outcast, homeless
females. The entire unselfishness of this project, like a warm ray of sunlight,
completely melted away the ice of my philosophical scruples. "Let kindness prevail," I
cried, "and the sun of human love shine on, though it may put out the eye of deliberate
reason, and overflow the banks of judgment with its genial thaw!" And so, reader, for
the sake of that unselfish love of humanity which defies the check-rein of cold
prudence to guide it, you have this course of Six Lectures in all their unstudied,
uncorrected (for they have not even been seen or revised by me in any way) crudity. If
you can extract the kernel of spiritual thought from the rough husk of unpremeditated
human speech, they may do you good, - if you fail, the money you bestow upon the
unappreciated page will buy one brick in the home for the homeless, the shelter for
the houseless, whose miserable lot has been one of the stimulants to this
publication…………….
We will have initially only fifty copies of the book available for sale at £17.95 + P.P.,
for details please contact: - psypioneer@aol.com
_____________________________________________________
124
[Note by Psypioneer: - We conclude our four part series which began in the March
issue, Modern Spiritualism, 1928 by Herbert Thurston, pages 66 – 88]
MODERN SPIRITUALISM
CHAPTER IV
THE VALHALLA OF SPIRITUALISM
UNDER the title "Pheneas Speaks" (1) Sir Arthur Conan Doyle published not long
since a volume of what purport to be the communications of discarnate spirits
received through the mediumship of his wife, Lady Doyle. There are, of course, many
hundreds of similar books in existence, some of which date back to the very
beginnings of modern Spiritualism. But this latest manifesto from the other world has
rather exceptional claims to consideration, for Sir Arthur (it will economise space to
follow his own example and to designate him in future by his initials A. C. D.) seems
to be treated by his spirit guides as the precursor, if not the chief comptroller, of a
religious convulsion which is now almost immediately to transform and renovate the
world in which we live. "Every sect is done for," Pheneas declares, "the people know
too much. The churches have failed in the past, and people will turn to those who
have been in direct spirit communication." And again, "Those who have stood in the
way of God's truth are being swept aside. Soon, very soon, the light will be seen in the
sky, and great will be the fear."
Apart from certain family messages which are of little interest outside A. C. D.'s
domestic circle, the communicators lay stress mainly upon two points - first the
astounding change now at hand, which will "stagger humanity" (p. 183) and
"transfigure the earth's surface so that it will be as God originally intended it to be,"
(p. 199); and secondly the wondrous beauty and happiness of that existence in the
spheres to which, according to the spiritualistic hypothesis, every decent man seems
to pass at once on quitting this world.
As regards the first of these topics the prophecies here printed are of the vaguest.
A. C. D. very prudently commits himself to nothing definite concerning the time or
the place or the manner in which the change will be brought about. He hints in his
preface that much information on these points has been imparted from on high, but he
tells us that it "must wait until its publication should seem advisable." The reader will
not fail to appreciate the wisdom of this course. It is rarely “advisable" to make
known the detail of prophecies until they have been fulfilled, for when they have once
been set down in black and white, the forecast cannot so readily be adapted to fit the
events which actually occur.
On the other hand nothing is risked by expatiating on the glories of life in the
spheres. This is the undiscovered country from whose bourn no traveller returns, and
Pheneas, however much he romances, can never be refuted. Hence A. C. D. makes no
scruple about publishing what has been disclosed by his various communicators
concerning the "Summer Land." Much of it is of a type familiar to all who have made
even slight acquaintance with the mediumistic script of the past seventy five years.
125
Still it may be interesting to compare this recent presentment with the accounts which
are derived from earlier sources and which we have no reason to suppose less
trustworthy.
In "Pheneas Speaks" there are a number of references to the house already
prepared, seemingly in the third sphere, for the residence of A. C. D. and his family. It
is his brother-in-law, the late E. W. Hornung, (2) who in July, 1921, professed to
announce from the other side that the future home "was a sweet place - full of charm.
There is water near and great peace." It must be confessed that though the subject
recurs many times, we never advance much beyond this in the way of definiteness.
For example, four years later Pheneas remarks:
"About your home here all your friends are clamouring that I should tell you more
about it. It is good that you know these things, for it sows little hope seeds in your
mind. Your eyes have never seen any form or colour so lovely as your home - beauty,
peace, sweetness, flowers, nature, sunshine, all vibrating with golden light. And it is
full of the spirit of home. Peace is the keynote and love its counterpart; inspiration is
its body, and tenderness its heart, and joy its spirit. Christ's spirit is its driving force."
This sounds nebulous enough and rather banal, but A. C. D. records that "here
Pheneas seemed much moved - put out his arms with awe"; that is to say, the medium,
Lady Doyle, under the supposed control of Pheneas, made this gesture. The nearest
approach to any precise detail that I can find dates from December, 1925.
Your home in the other world is ready for you. The human forces which are to
make it a perfect creation have been selected. There is a round small building in
the grounds which is filled with exquisite coloured vibrations into which you go
when you want soul's rejuvenation. It stands amid trees. There is a lovely terrace
outside that home, with flowers everywhere. Flowers and creepers are all round
the home and there is an oblong pond round which coloured birds will come to
drink. It is quite close opposite.
The old Catholic description of "Jerusalem my happy home," based on the
Apocalypse, was at least frankly metaphorical.
Thy walls are made of precious stones,
Thy bulwarks diamond square,
Thy gates are of right orient pearl,
Exceeding rich and rare.
Thy turrets and thy pinnacles
With carbuncles do shine;
Thy very streets are paved with gold,
Surpassing clear and fine.
This imagery, if over-luxuriant, was intelligible and the swing of the rhythm made
its effective appeal. Does A. C. D. think that Pheneas has improved upon the
conception of the Churches by substituting "coloured vibrations" and an "oblong
pond" over the way?
126
The curious thing is that the author of the book seems himself to find these
descriptions of the life to come rather flat and boring. Pheneas more than once
reproaches him for his apathetic attitude as regards the promised joys of the other
world. As late as September 28, 1926, he remonstrates vigorously: "You must take a
real interest in your future home. Otherwise those preparing it lose heart."
I quote this phrase as an illustration of the inconsistencies which abound even in
the selection of communications printed by A. C. D. Over and over again we are
assured that in the Summer Land "nothing ever jars," "there are no cross currents,"
"we do not tire, we get rest sitting among the flowers," "all is peace." Nevertheless the
workers, it seems, "lose heart" if their efforts are not appreciated, and the denizens of
the third sphere are apt to get "furious" (p. 57) with the persecutors of the cause of
Spiritualism on earth. Moreover, Pheneas, described as a "very high spirit" who died
thousands of years ago and who has presumably been progressing upward ever since,
is found complaining: "I am so tired; why am I so tired tonight?" (p. 91); also he
"seems unhappy," and on another occasion he loses his temper and is so cross (p. 139)
that he finds it necessary to apologise afterwards. Again we learn that he is sometimes
much exhausted with his visits to earth and that "he goes back to his beloved land and
has to rest" (p. 162).
The whole presentment of this exalted personage who is so near to Christ and at
the same time so tremendously interested in A. C. D., his wife ("the dear medium")
and his four children, who seems according to his own account to be director-general
of earth activities, ranging the world from China to Peru, while always breathlessly
overcharged with moral platitudes which fly from him on the smallest provocation
like sparks from a Leyden jar, is utterly unreal. His name, I am sure, ought to be
Chadband not Pheneas.
A more ordinary communicator, "Lily," a deceased friend of Lady Doyle's, only
appears rarely, but she is distinctly less sententious and more matter-of-fact than the
Arabian gentleman who fills the title role. Still even she has her moments of
rhapsody. In October 1922, it appears that A. C. D. asked her: "Shall we go to
America to spread this teaching?" Her reply was: "Go, and God's blessing go with
you every mile of the way," and she adds: "Never fear. All will be arranged for the
best for you all. You are ambassadors for God and humanity, in the world; so never
worry about the trifles." But in answering another question, "What do you do in your
world?" Lily touches matters which are of more practical interest.
"We develop," she says, "our gift for music and we look after the orphan children,
loving and mothering those whose hearts have been starved on earth. Far, far more to
do here than on the old grey earth. Nothing in people round ever jars. It makes
everything happier and more complete."
Then after speaking of the flowers and scents of her own spirit home, she says in
reply to the question "Can you see other homes?"
No, it would spoil the peace if we could. Nature only sometimes one wants.
Every home is an oasis, as it were. Beyond is wonderful scenery and other sweet
homes full of dear sweet, bright people, full of laughter, from the mere fact of
living in such wonderful surroundings . . . We have rooms as on earth, but so
127
much lovelier. The colours are so much daintier and the fabrics so much more
delicate.
If nothing jars, why should it spoil the peace if one could see other homes? And
surely this oasis idea, presumably some sort of patriarchal arrangement in family
groups, suggests rather serious difficulties. Even in this world we are familiar enough
with the problems created by the children of divorced or much re-married parents. But
I forbear to press the point, which might lead me to matters which are too personal.
[ACD had remarried after his first wife’s death and had two families – Psypioneer]
On the great food question, one communicator when asked "Have you food over
there?" answers:
"Not in your sense but much nicer. Such lovely essences and wonderful fruits, and
other things besides, which you don't have on earth."
In accord with this Pheneas also states: "We don't have meat here," and he goes on
to announce that even on this earth of ours vegetarianism is soon about to prevail.
"Comparatively few more animals will be sacrificed."
But the most noteworthy of the many puzzles which are suggested by these
descriptions of life in the spheres is the question of occupation. The spirits all seem to
be so very busy; but what do they do? E. W. Hornung is asked: "Is your present work
literary?" To which from the other side he answers vaguely: "Yes, of a kind. It is more
interesting. I prefer it to my work in the world. It is so much more vital. It really
counts." On the other hand when Delane, Editor of The Times, purports to
communicate, the question is put to him: "Do you edit a paper now?" He replies:
"There is no need here. We know everything. It is like wireless in the air, and all so
much bigger and larger and so splendid. It is great this life." A young doctor killed in
the war says: "I go on with my medical work, but it is much more vital, and means
much more to me new. I am helping some on your plane. At Guy's Hospital there is a
good man whom I impress with my greater knowledge."
But medical studies in a land in which everyone is restored to relative youth and no
disease is known, must be somewhat lacking in point. And if all the doctors formerly
deceased, from Hippocrates and Galen downwards, are engaged in impressing with
their greater knowledge the doctors who are still living, there must either be a good
many veterans who have nobody to impress, like the "poor lion" who hadn't got a
Christian, or the present generation of practitioners must certainly be in danger of
becoming bewildered through the multiplicity of their spirit guides. Moreover there is
the complication of "spirit healing," which would seemingly tend to eliminate the
medical profession altogether, but which the same communicator declares to be
"great - ever so great." "If only," he sighs, "the doctors would have open minds, and
receive this great truth and knowledge."
It will be seen that there are a good many inconsistencies in these descriptions,
even if we do not travel outside the pages of the book itself. But the moment we set
out to compare them with the hundreds of equally authoritative statements received
through other mediums, we find that there is not a single particular here made
prominent which is not flatly contradicted by one or other of the rival seers. Take for
128
example the home prepared for A. C. D. and his family to which so much attention is
devoted. One would infer from the details given that the process of construction
occupied several years and that a number of friends took part in the work, who would
"lose heart" if their efforts were not appreciated. With this view would agree the
statement of Raymond Lodge that he lived in a house built of bricks, that there were
trees and flowers, and that the ground was solid; (3) and also the communications of
Claude Kelway Bamber, where we read of houses in the next world as "built by
bricklayers and designed by architects." (4) On the other hand seventy-five years ago
one of the earliest and sanest of the apologies for spiritualism reports that the dead son
of the author, when asked if the spirits in his entourage lived in houses, replied:" We
are in open space; our dwelling is immensity." (5) And this also is evidently the
conception that Dr. Eugene Crowell derived from his extensive acquaintance with
mediumistic utterances, when he writes:
"Spirits sleep as do mortals. They have no beds, but repose on a velvety kind of
grass". (6) None the less the view which of all others has perhaps been most generally
favoured by spiritualistic writers is that which stands thus expressed in a work of the
same class: -
In this Summer Land you can picture us surrounded by the most beautiful
scenery, in an absolutely perfect climate, where every intellectual and spiritual
desire is gratified, and with homes that we fashion exactly to suit our taste. You
who love to design and beautify a house are, in your world, met by endless
worries and difficulties to get everything just as you want it. But here we breathe
forth the desire and the thing is created. And so much of our surrounding in this
Homeland is the result of how we lived in the earth life. (7)
Even on spiritualistic principles, I can see no way of reconciling these utterances,
for they refer to souls in the same stage of development. If A. C. D. when he arrives in
Summer Land has only to conceive in thought the home he wishes for himself and it
will at once be created, why should his family and friends on the other side spend
their energies for years in adorning the grounds with "a round small building filled
with coloured vibrations and an oblong pond just opposite?" Lady Doyle may in the
end prefer her vibrations plain, not coloured, and may wish to move the pond to a
distance; whereupon apparently she has only to conceive the thought or express the
wish and, as in the Arabian Nights, the transformation will be effected in the
twinkling of an eye.
Then there is the great question of the spheres. If anyone wishes to obtain precise
information on this matter in compendious form, I would commend him to the work
entitled Spirit Intercourse by Mr. J. Hewat McKenzie, then Principal of "the British
College of Psychic Science" in Bayswater, London, and an ardent ally of A. C. D. The
subject is treated with the precision of a Guide-Book advertisement. Thus:
Third Sphere.
The family sphere, commonly called the Summer Land, 1,350 miles from earth;
light, 100 to 110 degrees. Pet animals and birds are most numerous on this plane.
Flowers and fruit in rich luxuriance; habitations interspersed with gardens;
129
houses built in brick and also stone. This is the principal sphere of children,
where they receive their education on arriving from earth. (8)
This is the whole account. Now I have no wish to be hypercritical, but may I point
out that these geographical statistics have presumably been printed, as official reports
are wont to say, "subject to revision"? As far back as 1855 when Professor Robert
Hare, the distinguished chemist of Pennsylvania University, published his
Experimental Investigation of the Spirit Manifestations, this illustrious convert to the
new movement learned upon good discarnate authority that "the spirit world lies
between sixty and one hundred and twenty miles from the terrestrial surface, and that
the whole intermediate space, including that immediately over the earth, the
habitation of mortals, is divided into seven concentric regions, called spheres." (9)
According to this, therefore, even the seventh sphere is not more than 120 miles
distant from the earth's surface.
In 1875 Dr. Crowell, as the result of "frequent and intimate communication with
my spirit friends," decided that this third sphere was "160 miles from the earth and
100 miles above the second sphere," whereas Mr. McKenzie, as we have seen, in
1917, states, with the added impressiveness of diagrams drawn to scale, that the third
sphere or Summer Land begins at a distance of 1,350 miles from earth and is itself
1,500 miles high, while he adds that the seventh sphere stretches into space more than
35,500 miles away from our planet. These estimates are not very concordant, but they
may figure as harmony itself as compared with the dogmatic pronouncement of
Andrew Jackson Davis, that the Summer Land "is a solid belt of land extending above
the earth two-thirds of the distance from the sun and some seventy millions of miles
wide." (10) Seeing that Davis, the seer of Poughkeepsie, highly belauded by A. C. D. in
his "History of Spiritualism," had himself invented the Summer Land, he really ought
to be allowed to know where it is situated.
But can anything be stranger than the acceptance by Spiritualists in the middle of
the nineteenth century of an old-world cosmogony which had its ultimate raison
d'être in the geocentric ideas of Ptolemy and Pythagoras? That this conception of the
spheres should form part of the familiar imagery of such medieval writers as Chaucer
or Wycliff we can well understand. Science was a sealed book to them; but as
Professor Skeat explains in a note to a passage in one of Chaucer's poems:
The old astronomy imagined nine spheres revolving round the central
stationary earth. Of the seven innermost, each carried with it one of the seven
"planets," viz.: the Moon, Venus, Mercury, Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn; the
eighth sphere, that of the fixed stars, had a slow motion from west to east, round
the axis of the zodiac, to account for the precession of the equinoxes; whilst the
ninth or outermost sphere, called the primum mobile or the sphere of first motion,
had a diurnal revolution from east to west carrying everything with it.
That is how the idea of the seven spheres originated, and we are asked to accept
these desperate hypotheses, elaborated by the Greek mathematicians in their gropings
after truth more than two thousand years ago and only perpetuated by the astrologers
of the Wallenstein epoch, as a serious contribution to the problem of human survival
after death. Pheneas in September, 1926, so A. C. D. informs us, was still "very
anxious to get through some teaching about the spheres which had never before been
130
given to humanity." This teaching has not been incorporated in the Pheneas volume.
We need have no quarrel with its author when he declares that in the lowest spheres,
in which men of evil life are detained, "the surroundings are horrible." But Pheneas
improves the occasion by insisting that in these regions:
It is deadly silent, and dark. The conditions are indeed terrible. There are many
ecclesiastics there. They are shown pictures of the lives of those whom they have
influenced for evil by getting in the way of God's message [i.e., by opposing
Spiritualism]. That is among their punishments.
The opinion that the lower spheres are planes of suffering and self-discipline is no
doubt widely spread, but even here there is no unanimity. In the collection of spirit
utterances called "The Voices," by Admiral Usborne Moore, we may read:
There are seven spheres. The idea that the lower spheres are uncomfortable
is all nonsense. When I passed over I had the choice of going to higher spheres or
remaining among earth conditions. I chose the latter.
Even Adin Ballou's son in 1852, says in answer to the question: "Have you seen
any spirits that were really unhappy?" "I have seen those not as happy as myself, but
none that might be termed unhappy. Conscience is a fearful tormentor, and spirits,
even after they reach the fourth sphere, are not supremely happy at all times. "A reply
which again conflicts with A. C. D.'s presentment of the situation.
One of the moot points which continually recur in connection with all these so-
called spirit communications is the question of reincarnation. The reader of "Pheneas
Speaks" would be forced to conclude that A. C. D.'s discarnate visitors knew nothing
of it. (11) Pheneas who left the earth some five thousand years ago had apparently
never been reincarnated in all that time. Nevertheless he expresses high approval of a
book of spirit messages called "The Witness," and "The Witness," like "Claude's
Book," is saturated with reincarnation. For example the communicator "Tiny" says to
his mother:
It is awfully funny to think that I haven't been an Englishman always, but I don't
mind that. I wonder if you have ever been a man! Well, Mother, you needn't feel
so shocked. It does happen, and I don't mind knowing that I was once a woman.
(12)
Similarly Claude tells his mother:
In Egypt we were brother and sister, I was told, and were attached to the court
of the Pharoah, a sort of lady and gentleman in waiting. . . . I saw you a tall
woman with a good figure and an upright carriage in a purple robe and overdress
trimmed with gold and a sort of cloak of some skin falling at your back, your
forehead bound low with a fillet of gold with hieroglyphics on it. You looked jolly
fine, mums! (13)
This sort of thing may be very gratifying to the bereaved mother who publishes it,
but it leaves the ordinary reader cold, and it certainly is not evidential. I may add that
131
a page or two further on Claude informs his mother that they were both of them at one
time young men, though even then their lives were linked together.
Belief in reincarnation has been explicitly, even fiercely, repudiated by many
Spiritualists, the famous medium, D. D. Home, foremost among the number. A. C. D.,
though he does not refer to the matter in this book, has stated elsewhere that "the
balance of evidence shows that reincarnation is a fact, though not necessarily a
universal one." Has he ever realised, I wonder, how utterly inconsistent the doctrine is
with that peaceful and patriarchal family-homestead arrangement which is depicted in
"Pheneas Speaks"? If the same individual may have been, in a score of previous
existences, husband, brother, wife, daughter, master, slave or concubine to a multitude
of different people, in what character is he, she, or it, to settle down? And if there are
still future existences upon the earth plane to be looked forward to, what becomes of
the finality which is such an essential element of the peaceful atmosphere of the
Summer Land?
Further we are here inevitably brought into contact with the sex question, which, in
such an exact reproduction of earth conditions as Pheneas depicts, cannot be ignored.
I do not propose to discuss the matter except to point out that while on the one hand
Mr. Hewat McKenzie and many others declare that "there is no such thing in spiritual
spheres as marriage," the intelligences who purport to communicate from the other
side do not always endorse this view. In the book "Thy Son Liveth," printed in 1918,
one of the War victims holds converse with his mother, telling her:
It appears that everyone is or will be married. The twain shall be one spirit. I
judge from this statement that marriage is consummated here; [and then a little
later] I got your wire calling my attention to the scriptural statement that in
heaven there is neither marriage nor giving in marriage. . . . Love and marriage
are certainly in bud and flower here; I can see this fact with my own eyes.
The fact is, I submit, that the whole conception of the Summer Land, as soon as
one attempts to make any study of the communications which describe it, resolves
itself into a tissue of contradictions. The book "Pheneas Speaks" overflows with
denunciations of "theological egotism," of dogma, and of "the Church which prates of
Christ," and yet readers are called upon to accept all this fabric of inconsistencies, of
prophecies and of threats, as if it were gospel truth. It has never occurred to A. C. D.
that in the Catholic Church there has at least been unity of teaching, based upon a
tradition of nineteen centuries, and that it was those who lived with the historical
Christ who were the first to denounce heresy, to preach the doctrine of the Cross, (14)
and to proclaim the punishment of sin.
It seems just now to be the fashion among communicating spirits to claim
familiarity with Christ. Kingsley, A. C. D.'s son, has seen Christ; "Tiny" in "The
Witness," tells his mother how "Our Master Christ sent for me the other day and told
me He was proud of me"; while Pheneas, of course, poses as the confidant of all
Christ's plans for that marvellous renovation of earth life which we are informed is
now imminent. Our Lord warned us long ago against "false Christs and false
prophets," and their signs. This Summer Land also is no more than the baseless fabric
of a vision which, as I venture to predict, will ere long fade and "leave not a rack
behind."
132
EPILOGUE
ALTHOUGH the limits of this little volume of necessity preclude anything like full
discussion, there are one or two further points connected with the reported glories of
the "Summerland" which seem to claim a brief notice, however inadequate.
Is it not an extraordinary thing that in the immense mass of communications which
purport to have been received from those who have "passed over," we hardly ever
hear anything of the lot of the poor, the illiterate, the toilers who earn their bread by
the sweat of their brow? A good many millions of them die every year, and if every
home is "an oasis, as it were," one wonders how the spheres (for location and
dimensions see p. 78 above) can manage to supply accommodation. We are told that
conditions in the beyond reproduce so exactly the conditions of this life that many on
their first arrival cannot believe that they are dead or that any change has taken place
in their state of existence. If houses in the spirit world are built with bricks, is it the
bricklayers who build them for the love of the thing? Do the coal-miners go on
mining, and the agricultural labourer go on ploughing, and the numberless thousands
of operatives in cotton-mills and iron foundries continue the dreary routine which
filled the working days of their life on earth? Do the servants, in a word, go on
serving, or may they also, if they are good, look forward to a villa residence, "filled
with exquisite coloured vibrations," and "an oblong pond quite close opposite"?
Our communicators say nothing about this and do not appear interested - a fact
which seems to me strongly to suggest that it is out of the thought-stuff, conscious or
subconscious, of the medium and recipients that the fabric of these messages is
woven.The recipients, who are for the most part of the educated and leisured class,
are not thinking of the poor, but only of their intimates or at any rate of the sort of
people who belong to their own set. They may be philanthropic and kindly in their
general outlook, but when they come to consult a medium their minds are occupied
with more personal matters and the mediumistic response takes shape in accord with
this. As for class divisions in the world to come, one would like to know whether Mr.
De Wyckoff, Mr. Bradley and other affluent people when they settle down in their
charming residences in the third plane will be on visiting terms with their own former
domestics. Or will there be a separate colony, a gigantic servants' hall, where "that
kind of person" may find himself more at his ease, when out of contact with his
betters.
Another question which imposes itself is this: What of the personal handicap
which is the cause of so much depression in the present life? The deformed, the
cripples, the blind, the deaf and dumb - what becomes of them? No doubt we shall be
told that their limbs are straightened in the next world, that sound organs and robust
health are bestowed on them as a matter of course. But still there are difficulties.
What of the plain girl with forbidding features and stunted or ungainly figure? She
may have enjoyed good physical health, but she has always seen herself passed over
and others preferred. She has never been able to win any of the human affection
which her heart has craved for. Is this to go on? Are these disabilities to be her portion
in the spheres as well as on earth? And what of the negro? Will he always remain a
negro, retaining all the physical characteristics of his race? Even if he invariably
meets with sympathy and consideration in the new life, that will not give him what he
133
longs for. He wants to be as the rest, equal with the rest, not to be in a position to
evoke sympathy.
On the other hand, if we suppose that bodies are remade on the other side, and that
the good people in the third sphere have the features, the stature, the straight limbs,
which they would desire to have, are we not upsetting one of the most familiar
spiritualistic arguments for survival? Ballou as early as 1852 tells a story of a man
who was convinced during a dark seance that it was really his wife who had come to
him and touched him, because she bade him feel her hand and he recognised the
deformity of a crooked finger which she had always had during life.
Similarly Feda, Mrs. Osborne Leonard's control, when she gives an account of the
personal appearance of those spirits present who wish to hold converse with their
earth friends, nearly always describes them as they were best remembered, the old
people as white-haired and wrinkled, others with peculiarities which could not always
have flattered their vanity. If the denizens of the spheres are in fact invested with
youth and comeliness, one has ground for arguing that these apparitions are mere
simulacra and not realities; and when Sir A. C. Doyle, for example, tells us that in a
seance room he has seen his son as clearly as ever he saw him in life, we are justified
in replying that proof of survival and identity is still lacking until it can be demon-
strated that the simulacrum can only be built up by the spirit it represents.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1) "Pheneas Speaks." Direct Spirit Communications in the Family Circle, reported by
Arthur Conan Doyle, M.D., LL.D. London: Simpkin Marshall and Co., 1927. Pheneas
purports to be an Arabian sage who lived before the time of Abraham. He is the spirit
guide of A. C. D.
2) Hornung, the author of "Raffles" and many other novels, was a very successful
writer of fiction. His wife, Connie Doyle, A. C. D.'s sister, always to her death
remained a devout Catholic. She is obscurely referred to once or twice in her brother's
book as "Cynthia," and is described as "in the grip of the Church"; or again: "Poor
Cynthia, so good and kind, but alas! her Church is filling all her thoughts and her life
to the exclusion of all other ties." I was sufficiently well acquainted personally with
both Mr. and Mrs. Hornung to appreciate the pain which these alleged posthumous
communications through mediums may cause in a Christian household. The distress
experienced by the survivors in this world is patent and real; the disappointment felt
by the purporting communicators on the other side, if their advances are not
encouraged, is at best inferential.
3) "Raymond," by Sir Oliver Lodge, 6th edition, pp. 184 and 198.
4) "Claude's Book," edited by Mrs. Kelway Bamber, with a preface by Sir Oliver
Lodge, p. 20.
5) Adin Ballou, "Spirit Manifestations," English ed., 1853, p. 102.
134
6) E. Crowell, "Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism," New York, Vol. II.,
p. 299.
7) Speaking Across the Border-Line. Being letters from a Husband in Spirit Life to
his Wife on Earth, by F. Heslop, with a commendatory note from Sir Oliver Lodge,
5th ed., p. 81. Mrs. Heslop must not, of course, be confused with the late Professor
Hyslop of Columbia University, formerly Secretary of the American Society for
Psychical Research.
8) 1 " Spirit Intercourse," New York, 1917, p. 203.
9) 1 Hare, "Experimental Investigation," 5th Edition, New York, 1858, p. 87.
10) See Davis's "Morning Lectures," 1864, pp. 349-350.
11) Unless indeed a reference on p. 134 to "those who are to have a second chance on
this plane" should be so interpreted.
12) "The Witness," by Jessie Platts, p. 49.
13) "Claude's Book," p. 36.
14) Pheneas professes to revere the person of Christ, but to him and to A. C. D. the
Cross is foolishness as it was to the gentiles. "In the new world," we are told (p. 93)
"the Cross idea will have passed. The new religion will be all beauty and sweetness."
None the less, by one of those astounding inconsistencies of which these script-books
are full, Pheneas says (p. 204): "If you make the sign of the Cross on your forehead
when you lie down to sleep, you help the good spirits." A. C. D. comments, "you seem
to have some very R.C. ideas." To which Pheneas replies: "Yes, they know the signs,
but not always the spirit."
…………………………………………………………………Concluded.
[Note by Psypioneer: - Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was sufficiently angered by this
short book by Fr. Thurston to write one of his scarcest works “The Roman Catholic
Church: a rejoinder”. We hope to reprint Fr Thurston’s brief review of this large
pamphlet in due course.]
______________________________
135
[Note by Psypioneer: - we continue our occasional series about this Japanese pioneer
which began with an interview in the March 2007 issue.]
Taken from: - LIGHT November 10th
1928 p530.
SPIRITUALISM IN MODERN JAPAN
By Mr. W. Asano
(President, Japanese Society for Psychic Science)
In 1923 Japan underwent a great disaster in the Great Earthquake, but in spite of
this heavy material blow the nation had its greatest blessing from the spiritual point of
view in having thus the foundation for its future spiritual progress laid. At least I can
say that it was given the opportunity by the society to introduce here its spiritual side
to the psychic scientists and Spiritualists of the world.
Only a short time has been spent in Japan on systematic Spiritualistic study, and
we cannot say as yet that all of its psychical phenomena are scientifically classified or
studied; but, as far as I can see at present, there appears to be a great difference
between the mediums of the West and East (including Japan and other oriental
countries) with regard to their faculty and strength. While those of the West are
willing to be put to the test and show various astounding results in laboratories, those
of the Orient would not use their power but for moral or practical purposes. It is
needless to say that scientific tests are most important, but at the same time the
student should not try to put every medium into his own mould, as both extremities
will certainly incur a great loss in the course of the study. I will now mention a few
powerful mediums which Japan has at present, and of which it may interest you to
know something.
MR. S. UCHIDA, a resident of Okazaki City, whose psychic faculty I have for two
years been testing, possesses three kinds at present. The first is the phenomenon of
Apports. Small pieces of metal or stone are gathered in his hand during a short trance.
The second is the phenomenon of creating audible sounds in the air simply by moving
hands. When he shakes his band in trance there is produced in the air the sounds of an
electric discharge. The third is trance speaking. He is an illiterate man and cannot
write even his own name properly, but, in spite of his ignorance, often he gives
lectures during trance on the illegible Buddhist scriptures, even quoting some long
passages difficult to remember.
MRS. G. NAKANISHI IS also a trance medium, whose faculty is specially
adapted for practical purposes. She is capable of remaining in trance for several hours
at a stretch, and during the interval can diagnose even internal diseases in a few
minutes. She can easily speed to a distant place to investigate things and trace
fugitives. In our numerous tests with her for the past few months she was remarkably
successful.
PROF. R. NAKAO, now filling a chair in the Osaka Technical College, is an
excellent clairvoyant, whose faculty was discovered several years ago. Of late,
136
demonstrations are given by him every Sunday. He published a book on his
experiences last year, calling it Tosi to sono Jiturei (Clairvoyance and its examples),
illustrating clairvoyant phenomena from over 5,000 cases. It contains many
interesting examples.
MR. M. ARAFUKA is a noted business man of Osaka. He is at present running a
linen factory; not only is he a man of business but also of learning. About four years
ago he found that he possessed the faculty of trance speech and also of automatic
writing. His family and friends became doubtful of his sanity on account of the
psychic phenomena produced by him, and he himself could not be confident of his
own faculty for a considerable length of time. I came to know him in December, last
year, and after repeated tests found in him excellent psychic power. His control
announces himself by the name of Michiominomikoto, who was the assistant to the
Emperor Jimmu, the first ruler enthroned in the Japanese Empire. Whosoever he may
be, I marvel at his keen and profound knowledge of ancient Japanese history and the
origin of Shintoism. I believe I am not exaggerating the fact if I say that through the
explanations of this spirit, the oldest Japanese scripture came to show its true deep
meanings which had not before been revealed. My deeper study of Mr. Arafuka is yet
to come, but there is no room for doubt that he is one of the most promising mediums
Japan has at present.
These mediums are not professional. They are all ardent students of psychic
phenomena, and are willing to render services to others. There are in Japan, besides
these psychics, numerous professional mediums who, like those in the West, are
showing their psychic faculties in healing, etc. Their powers are varied, but in form
can be roughly classified as Buddhistic incantations and prayers, Shinto charms,
trance-speech, kiai (spellbinding shout), tinkon (a Shinto practice of meditation), the
Western hypnotic treatments, etc. Such psychics are thousands in number within
Tokyo City only. Some of them possess quite strong power and could satisfy people
often in showing good results against diseases incurable by modern medical
treatment. All of them, however, cannot be admitted genuine, as very few of them
have undergone scientific investigation and treatment. Our Society for Psychic Study
is now endeavouring to make statistical experiments among these psychics, and I
think it will be possible for us to submit a precise report on them within a few years.
Apart from these numerous mediumistic faculties, there are in Japan some peculiar
psychic phenomena that cannot be overlooked. It is shown in the disciples of
mysticisms of various kinds and occult sciences. Most of these men are leading the
solitary life of a hermit amidst mountains, and shun society. It is, therefore, rather
difficult to put them under strict scientific tests in the laboratory; but it does not mean
that these psychics can be disregarded. It would mean a great loss to the development
of Spiritualism, for the psychic phenomena produced by such people and also those
occurring around them appear often too marvellous and significant to be passed over
simply as absurd or mysterious.
Our study of such psychics may still be insufficient, but I am able now to introduce
you to a few of them. MR SAIKINAN, born in Chosen (Corea), was once a
Government official in that district, which post he resigned more than ten years ago to
devote his whole life to spiritual work. From childhood, he had been an earnest
student of occult doctrines and also of Chinese mysticism, and since freed of his
137
professional yoke has shut himself up in Kongozan, a high mountain in Chosen, and
given up the eating of cooked meals, taking daily only seven pieces of pine-bark
biscuits. He had lived ten years in this way by June, last year, when he proceeded to
try to live simply on air. He then climbed up Hakutozan, alone, an uninhabited high
mountain situated in the boundary between Chosen and Manchuria, where he
succeeded in observing his fast for one hundred days.
MR. S. T. is personally known to me as a friend. He is a graduate of an American
college and now a member of Kobe Municipal Assembly. He has also been interested
in the study of occult science and has come in contact with the Sennin; these are
peculiar beings found only in the Eastern countries, and are considered to have
attained immense longevity through, their extensive spiritual training. These men do
not show their forms except to those whom they select as their disciples. Mr. T. says
that he meets from time to time eight Sennins in a secret place on a mountain, where
he stays with them from three days to a week, and gets himself instructed and trained
during the interval under the guidance of these men. As far as their appearance is
concerned, these eight men are said to look like the people of ancient times in their
old-fashioned robes, but when they walk their easy and swift gait suggests that they
feel no weight of their body. They show no difficulties in climbing steep, peaks or
passing over precipitous cliffs.
MR. H. TOCAWA is an illiterate old man, over sixty, living in the county of Isé.
When he was nine years old he was made the disciple of Tengu, a mysterious being in
the Astral Plane, who is considered to be spiritually inferior to a Sennin. From time to
time this Tengu pays calls on him and takes him along to travel in different places. He
says he can pass over several hundred miles in a very short time when he is with this
non-human guide. He is often given by this strange being various common objects,
books, scrolls, or offerings to shrines, such as rice cakes, dried fishes, fruits,
sweetmeats, etc. To Mr. Togawa, the Tengu looks simply as an old man of noble
appearance, but nobody else is able to see the form of this supernatural being.
…………………………………………………..Concluded.
Hannah Jenkins is a Ph.D candidate at the University of Tasmania, and can be reached
at: http://www.utas.edu.au/philosophy/postgradpubs/Hannah/hannah.html she has kindly sent in
this article: - ‘Some Observations on Table-Moving’ by William Archer F.L.S.
_____________
Introduction: -
Hannah Jenkins writes: I was recently asked by Psypioneer to source an article on
table-moving published in 1864 by the Royal Society of Tasmania. Table-moving,
table turning or table tilting are all names for a common parlour game at the time in
138
which a group of ‘sitters’ would attempt to communicate with spirits. Sometimes the
table moved, levitated or made sounds like raps or knocks and this piqued the
curiosity of those involved as well as scientists at the time.
The article reproduced below was written by the naturalist and architect William
Archer (born in Launceston, Tasmania in 1820) who appears to have been concerned
to promote a ‘normal’ explanation for the anomalous psychokinetic phenomena
associated with table turning. Archer uses the scientist Michael Faraday’s conclusions
as a basis for supposing the explanation - that it is involuntary movement by the
sitters which creates the apparent psychokinetic effects.
It appears from the tone of his article that table turning was undertaken here, as
elsewhere in the western world at that time, with the expectation that ‘spirits’ were
responsible for creating the movement of the table and associated accompanying raps
and taps. Given the close connection between Great Britain and the new colony of
Tasmania at the time it is not surprising. As elsewhere, with the decline of
Spiritualism, the prominent debunking of popular mediums and the rise of the study
of psi in more controlled laboratory conditions, table turning became a forgotten
parlour game.
However, lately interest in table turning in Australia has re-ignited and a group
inspired by the ‘Philip Experiments’ in Canada in the 1970s has attempted replication
of the anomalous phenomena. The group attempted to produce apparent psychokinetic
effects with a view to find supporting evidence for the theory that the anomalous
movement is due to anomalous effects rather than to either spirits or involuntary
movements. All effort was taken to rule out ‘normal’ means of procuring the
anomalous phenomena that were experienced (raps, taps and some movement).
As a participant in the experiments I can say that I definitely observed some
phenomena that could not be explained through normal means, although we had to
laugh when we spent months with no effects at all! A record of the events was kept on
various forms of video and we also experienced certain difficulties with cameras
working and then suddenly not working, even though the batteries were full and there
were usually no technical problems with the equipment when used for other purposes.
A report on the attempts to produce PK was published in the Australian Journal of
Parapsychology ‘Examining Macro-psychokinetic Experiments’ by M. Williams and
R. Lang (volume 2/1 2002). The article is available online at:
http://www.strangenation.com.au/Articles/Psipaper.htm. The article contains references to the
Philip Experiments (well worth a read) as well as notes on the procedure and methods
undertaken by the Australian group. Interested readers should attempt replication
themselves as video evidence and anecdotal tales can appear a little less convincing
than the events when experienced personally.
139
MONTHLY NOTICE
of
PAPERS AND PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
ROYAL SOCIETY
OF
TASMANIA.
===========================================================================================
=======
SEPTEMBER, 1864.
===========================================================================================
=======
Contents:
Proceedings of the Society.............................................................. page 80
Meteorology for September............................................................ “ 82
Analysis of Observatory Records for September, in conjunction
with those of Births, Deaths, &c............................................... “ 83
Some Observations on Table Moving................:............................... “ 86
____________________________
HOBART TOWN:
PRINTED AT THE "MERCURY” STEAM PRESS
SOME OBSERVATIONS ON TABLE-MOVING
By WILLIAM ARCHER F.L.S.
THE mystery which appears to surround the experiments connected with Table-
Moving, has prevented many intelligent persons from arriving at a satisfactory
conclusion as to the true cause of such singular results; and the celebrated Faraday has
failed to convey to other than scientific minds that precise information upon the
subject which he himself may be presumed to possess, - while others have involved
the question in technical language, quite unintelligible to the public. The real nature of
the case appears to me to be capable of a simple elucidation, which I will endeavor to
place clearly before the Royal Society, in the hope that it will, at the least, create a
discussion upon this curious and interesting subject.
It must be premised that whenever the will is exercised, and is unobstructed in its
operation, that operation is immediate. Contemplated corporeal exertion is no sooner
willed than it is attempted by the obedient muscles. When the will is weak, or
enfeebled by disease, or confused by intoxication, its servants the muscles, cease to
operate with the same exact and instantaneous obedience; and thus the man "sick of
the palsy," fails to impart motion to his paralysed limbs, - the sufferer from ague
vainly endeavors to compose and quiet his agitated body, - and the drunken man
strives unsuccessfully to move his perplexed members with their natural and
140
regularity. Moreover, it is evident that, when the mind wills a certain result, it not
only constrains the muscles to act, but to act in the manner and direction most likely
to produce that result.
Now, when a person proceeds to try the experiment of "Table-Moving," he is
instructed to keep his whole body perfectly quiescent, and to will at the same time,
that a certain effect should be produced upon the table.
It is clear, then, in such a case that the mind is influencing the will with respect to
two operations utterly opposed to one another: the one, that the muscles should act,
the other, that they should remain quiescent; and the immediate result is in accordance
with the idea which is impressed most strongly on the mind, - which idea at the outset,
is invariably that the muscles should remain quiescent; consequently, no immediate
movement of the table occurs. After some time, however the idea that the muscles
should remain quiescent becomes fainter, while the idea of the projected movement,
which is being continually impressed upon the mind, becomes more said more deeply
implanted, until it is completely dominant, and the movement accordingly, takes
place; but the idea of quiescence, which at first influenced the will almost entirely,
still retains much of its force, and causes such confusion in the mind as to prevent it
from realizing the fact that the movement in question is the direct consequence of
volition.
Thus, when it is intended by persons seated round a table, with their hands placed
upon its margin, that one side of the table should be elevated, the person whose hands
are placed at that side pushes the table, the person opposite presses downwards and
pulls, while those who occupy the other sides force the table, by a lateral pressure, in
the direction in which it is pushed-all these movements being such as are best cal-
culated to effect the object in view, when the hands are so placed as above stated. The
result is that the side of the table is raised where the legs are situated near its centre
(so that the centre of gravity is easily displaced) - or that the table is moved along the
floor where the legs are situated near the table's margin, especially if the floor is
smooth.
The conclusion, therefore, at which I have arrived is, that the motion of the table is
caused by the muscular action of the persons who place their hands upon it; which
action appears to them to be involuntary, on account of its not taking place in
immediate consequence of volition.
It follows, then, that the effect is produced independently of direct electrical, or
electro-biological, influence, engendered by the usual contact of hands completing the
circle. This is demonstrated by the fact that the motion takes place without such
contact of the hands. In fact, similar effects are produced, within the ordinary period
of time, by the hands of one operator only.
In order to demonstrate that the result is effected by muscular action alone, I threw
a light cloth over a polished round table. The persons who placed their hands upon it,
- not in contact - willed that the table should turn towards the left. In a short time the
cloth began to move in front of one person only, becoming tight on the right, and
wrinkled on the left of his position; then the same effect was produced in the case of
another. But it was only when the hands of all the operators were in decided motion
141
from right to left that the whole cloth was moved round equally - the table remaining
quite stationary all the time.
The next experiment was to raise the table entirely from the floor by placing the
palms of the hands on the margin of the table, and the thumbs underneath - the
operators willing that the table should rise - which was successfully performed within
the usual space of time.
The succeeding experiment was to raise the table by placing the whole hand flat
upon the margin, - the operators willing, as before, that the table should rise; but the
hands alone were elevated - the table remaining unmoved, as might have been
expected.
My next deduction was, that this peculiar operation of the will might be applied to
any kind of muscular exertion, the truth of which was demonstrated by the following
experiments: - In the first, two persons took one end each of a piece of twine, and
willed that the twine should break. Accordingly, their hands began shortly to move in
opposite directions, and the movement increased in force until the twine gave way.
Then, two persons stood up together, and willed themselves to walk. After a short
time one felt the weight of his body thrown on his right leg, and, by degrees, the right
leg moved forwards; but it did not appear inclined to plant itself on the floor, - so that
the operator was obliged to resort to direct volition, in order to save himself from
falling backwards. The other operator experienced similar sensations, excepting that
his right leg moved.
Being anxious to discover whether there were any tendency in these operations to
bring the mind under electro-biological influence, I placed half-a-crown in the hand of
one of the operators, and told him to regard it earnestly for ten minutes, the usual time
being twenty minutes. After he had done so I bade him raise his head and shut his
eyes. Then, drawing the point of my finger downwards over the lids after they were
closed, - in order to convey to his mind the idea of my power to keep them shut, - I
told him that he could not open them; and he only succeeded in doing so after many
and violent efforts. I tried one or two more experiments which satisfactorily proved
his susceptibility of the influence. He had never tried the experiment before, nor had I.
It is, however, possible that he may be at all times very susceptible of electro-
biological influence.
The whole of the foregoing experiments were performed in immediate succession.
With respect to the declaration of numbers by the successive movements, up and
down, of the side of a table, I cannot but wonder at the superstitious feelings with
which many persons regard such experiments; for a little reflection would, I think,
convince them that the results, when accurate, deserve to be considered as no more
than good guesses, produced by the influence of the majority; that is to say, if "the
table is to tell" the number of keys in a certain bunch - there being six operators, - the
first of whom thinks of the number 4, the second of 5, the third of 7, the fourth of 6,
the fifth of 6, and the sixth of 8, the result would probably be the average of those
numbers, namely, 6, - which, if correct, could only be regarded as a good guess. There
is no doubt that some correct, and, therefore, apparently supernatural guesses have
been made; but the failures have been far more numerous; - the memory of them,
142
however, being soon obliterated by a very few instances of notable success. It is only
those who are too superstitiously credulous to believe that the motion of the table is
caused by muscular action, resulting from embarrassed volition, who will imagine
that the minds of men sitting round a table, under circumstances of peculiar restraint,
are more nearly omniscient than they are found to be when in the enjoyment of
perfect freedom, - or that they are then capable of infusing into, or evoking from,
inanimate matter the sensibility and power which belong to creatures endued with life.
Shakespeare makes Hamlet well say "There are more things in heaven and earth,
Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy;" but such a sentiment does not justify,
respecting certain effects, conclusions which are opposed to reason, - especially when
a reasonable explanation can be given of those effects, and a reasonable cause of them
assigned.
The safest rule for our guidance, with respect to matters which appear to be
mysterious and unaccountable, is to believe what is beyond our reason only upon
reasonable testimony, and to reject at once what is evidently contrary to reason.
Acting upon this rule I have been led to make such an investigation of the subject of
table-moving as to warrant conclusions which seem reasonable to myself, and which
will, I trust, appear satisfactory to others, at least to those who bring to the
consideration of the subject minds free from prejudice or superstition.
Pages 86-89
__________________________________________
BOOKS FOR SALE
__________________
Red Cactus: - The Life of Anna Kingsford. By Alan Pert @ £14.95 + pp. See
Psypioneer 3.5 issue: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.5May07..pdf
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues
on the web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our
Australian friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free
and direct by sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or
“Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
143
