{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v3_n11_nov_2007.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V3 N11 Nov 2007","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 3, No 11; November 2007
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
Finding our way in Psypioneer 241
Martin Israel and the parting friends – Leslie Price 242
Helen Duncan – The Mystery Show Trial by Robert Hartley 244
A lawyer protests 248
Can the SJRC survive? 249
Maurice Barbanell continued 250
A new Psypioneer – Leslie Price 255
Helen Duncan was not trialed as a witch, as some reports may suggest! 256
Japan’s leading Spiritualist passes 260
Australia is to be flooded with psychic books 261
Books for sale 263
How to obtain this Newsletter by email 264
=========================================
FINDING OUR WAY IN PSYPIONEER
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It has been a problem, for the editors as well as the readers, to locate items in back
issues of Psypioneer. The most effective method has been a Google search under a
particular subject prefixed by the word “Psypioneer”. For example, a Google search
under “Psypioneer Austen” today produces 2 references - the results may vary.
Now Peter Hui, webmaster for www.woodlandway.org, a site where we have been guests
since our infancy, has added an invaluable search facility both to the site generally
and to the Psypioneer page. This search today produced three references to
Psypioneer mentions of Austin, and also a fourth mention on the Woodlandway
pages. Thus it is more comprehensive than Google.
Garth Willey, co-leader of Woodland Way, has approached the problem from another
side. He has listed chronologically the contents of Psypioneer. It is intended to
publish this list early in 2008, after the conclusion in December 2007 of the present
volume. LP
_________________________
241
Martin Israel and the Parting of Friends
The funeral took place at Holy Trinity Church Prince Consort Road London, on 5
November 2007 of Dr Martin Israel, former president of The Churches’ Fellowship
for Psychical and Spiritual Studies (CFPSS), and once priest in charge of that church.
The service was taken by the Bishop of London (Anglican), in accordance with the
Book of Common Prayer which is still used there. The eulogy was by Lord Rees-
Mogg, a leading RC layman, who drew attention to the later experience described in
Martin’s book “Happiness That Lasts”. (A number of his books are available on line).
http://www.martinisrael.u-net.com/happiness/chapter1.html.
Among those present from CFPSS was Julian Drewett (General Secretary), Nancy
Walthew (Chair), Michael Shrewsbury (Vice-President), Jennifer Howard (editor,
Quarterly Review) and members of local CFPSS groups.
Before being ordained, Martin had supplemented his own spontaneous experiences by
personal investigation, especially of healers. Some account of this appeared in “ The
Quest for Wholeness” also on line and a valuable consideration of healing of
relevance to all who work in that field. With Dr W. Ford-Robertson, Martin was
involved in an early and unsuccessful attempt to establish Psychosynthesis in Britain,
from which a few booklets resulted.
After ordination, Martin focused on his religious work. He stepped down as president
of the Seekers Trust, the healing body founded by Charles A. Simpson and his guide
Dr Lascelles. He withdrew from a private circle (called “Light and Science”) which
met at the flat of Margaret Brice-Smith to listen to a high entity (thought by some to
be the Master D.K.) who spoke through the mediumship of Helen Greaves.
Paul Beard has referred to this group in his tribute to one of the participants, Dr
Leggett. (Other members included Bill Blewett College of Psychic Studies (CPS)
vice-president, Dr Edward Aubert of Burrswood, Commander Martin Pares, and Jean
Sydney of the CFPSS Mysticism Committee.) Beard wrote in LIGHT Winter 1994,
p. 104:
“We shared membership of a small group, of which most members played an active
part in some other spiritual organisation, which met to receive spiritual teaching
given through Helen Greaves.”
So far as I am aware this is the only published reference to the circle, of which Martin
was possibly the last surviving member. Dr Leggett, as some-time treasurer of both
CFPSS and CPS, was typical in his Alice Bailey sympathies and his service to various
bodies. Mrs Sydney typed the minutes of the circle.
It is possible that the strain of being psychic and Christian exacerbated some
disparaging references to mediumship in Martin’s writings. These pained old friends
in the emerging New Age, culminating in a critical editorial in LIGHT though that
journal acknowledged that there was a tradition of gifted experiments being critical of
other lesser sources ( e.g. Swedenborg, Blavatsky, Steiner had thus been critical).
242
Martin’s association with CPS was long. I first heard him there at the CFPSS Youth
Conference on 24 June 1967. In 1968, he delivered in Room 2 at the College, a
memorable series of talks “An Approach to Mysticism”; soon he would speak
regularly without notes in the lecture hall beneath. Former CPS president Brenda
Marshall was among those whose friendship helped sustain his retirement.
Although no named communicators were associated with him, Martin was a natural
medium. In his writings on the spiritual life, he had perforce to make astringent
comments, not just on the vagaries of the psychic field, but on the shortcomings of the
religious, including the charismatic renewal which loomed large around the time he
sought ordination. He was an exorcist, whom some orthodox exorcists would have
been keen to exorcise - or worse. But the most sustained critique of him, which
attributed his work to Satan, was in the non-Charismatic Alan Morrison’s “The
Serpent and the Cross” (1994).
The word “Spiritualism” is an imprecise one. In his obituary of Martin in “The
Church Times” on 2 November, Canon Michael Perry, now CFPSS president wrote:
“As chairman of the Churches’ Fellowship for Psychical and Spiritual Studies, under
the presidency of Chancellor Garth Moore, he rescued that organisation from a
pseudo-Spiritualism, so that it could become firmly linked with mainstream
Christianity, and could be a lifeline for people of psychic sensitivity who wanted to
remain in the Christian faith. “
One could argue that (historically) the UK religious organisation with the most
Spiritualists in it has been the Church of England. (If it had a million members, and
two per cent were Spiritualists, more after the First World War……) This was the
church in which Sir Oliver Lodge made his philosophical contributions, and in which
Sir William Crookes was a churchwarden, the church to which some noted mediums
like Douglas Johnson and Trixie Allingham have belonged. Many LSA members
were Anglicans. History does not yet record Martin ever entering a Spiritualist
church, not even a Christian Spiritualist one. But though the suggestion might
scandalise all parties, there is a sense in which he was a Spiritualist leader of the late
twentieth century, as was Paul Beard, a man with a different outlook who also tended
to avoid Spiritualist churches. (Ironically the Beard family had founded an
independent Christian Spiritualist church, the London Spiritual Mission which still
flourishes in Bayswater today. http://www.spiritualmission.co.uk/ )
One day about 1970 I ran into Martin outside South Ken tube station. He had lately
met privately Metropolitan Anthony Bloom another medical doctor called to the
spiritual life, (who had also come to live in Britain and to exercise wide influence
among seekers) and spoke ardently of its superiority to the merely psychic realm. But
it was by placing that realm in a religious context that Martin gave to the psychic a
dignity which is sorely needed in these days of mass media domination. LP
_________________________
243
Book Review: - by Paul J. Gaunt.
[Note by Psypioneer: - On Friday 31st
March 1944, the seventh day of the trial of
Mrs. Helen Duncan and her co-defendants, the jury retired to consider their verdict at
4.32 p.m., and returned into court at 4.56 p.m. Helen Duncan and her co-defendants
were found guilty on the first count of the indictment for conspiracy to contravene the
Witchcraft Act. The jury was discharged from giving a verdict on the other six counts.
See page 256 of this issue]
HELEN DUNCAN
The Mystery Show Trial
By Robert Hartley
‘Helen Duncan the Mystery Show Trial’ by Robert Hartley April 2007. Published by
H Pr (Publishing) ISBN 978-0-9553420-8-0 £12.50
Dr. Robert Hartley started his professional career as a research child psychologist in
London’s East End, and received his doctorate in psychology at London University.
He later took another avenue, becoming a documentary film director and made films
for television. In the course of his researching for film material he developed an
interest in Spiritualism, which indirectly lead to the book in hand.
Throughout this book Hartley leads the reader through his own spiritualistic
experiences, the mediumship and trial of Helen Duncan as well as a government
conspiracy to get Duncan ‘out of the way’
The 56 page introduction to the book will be of special interest to Spiritualists, with
the author relating to his many experiences with established mediums like the late
Gordon Higginson and societies such as the now defunct ‘Noah’s Ark Society’. The
original project for Hartley was to make a documentary film on ‘Physical
Phenomena’. A spirit communicator, through the mediumship of James McQuarrie,
purported to come from the ‘White Brotherhood’ (a group of evolved spirit beings),
was to bring together a group of physical mediums; this group would be called the
‘Stella Polaris Group’1
. Hartley was told they wanted him to make a drama-
documentary film about Helen Duncan. However, due to various difficulties and
setbacks, the medium chosen to front this project (which Helen Duncan herself
wished to use for herself to communicate in the film), has been prevented from
completing the necessary development required as a physical medium.
Robert Hartley then decided to publish his research material in relationship to Mrs.
Duncan that was originally meant to accompany his film project. We shall need to
wait to see if the proposed film project by the ‘White Brotherhood’ will materialise!
1
Not to be confused with the ‘White Eagle’ publication ‘Stella Polaris’ There is probably an intended
link here: - ‘White Brotherhood’
244
I have found the research to be well placed in the book with many thought provoking
ideas that mainly focus in detail on the trial of Mrs. Duncan. Preceding the trial, the
author gives some general background to the early mediumship of Helen Duncan,
bringing awareness to the reader of her early 1930s sitting at the ‘London Spiritualists
Alliance’ (LSA) firstly favourable – but later the LSA claimed that samples of
ectoplasm proved to be surgical gauze.2
Mr. Henry Duncan (husband) told the
research committee of the LSA: - …he believed that ectoplasm may have been
produced as a result of regurgitation and that three hours before seances Helen ‘lost
her will’ and unconsciously secreted things about her person and retained them in her
stomach. (page 33) Harry Price like the LSA initially declared enthusiastically that
Duncan’s phenomena was genuine; Price was later to become an adviser for the 1944
prosecution.
The primarily focus of the book is that Helen Duncan was sent to prison as a result of
a government conspiracy. Hartley’s claim is that: - evidence exists that shows that the
prosecution was instigated by the State and Military authorities to imprison Mrs.
Duncan because she was a security risk. (page 69)
The author backs this claim up very well by bringing into play detailed information
showing important connections of many of the main players in the Helen Duncan
story, namely the police, prosecution counsel,3
and prosecution witnesses,4
to MI5,
Military Intelligence, Naval intelligence etc. The author also shows other prosecution
witnesses had previous links with each other.
The main value of this book is the examination of the evidence that has been carried
out in some detail by the author. The relevant séances that the four stood charged in
relation to are broken down - who said what to whom, etc. Contradictions in
statements are brought to light together with the many changes and discrepancies in
the prosecution statements, especially Lieutenant Stanley Worth the leading
prosecution witness whose testimony about the Duncan séances formed the
foundation of the Crown’s case.
Helen Duncan and her co-defendants were arrested by Inspector George Ford on the
19th
January 1944 as a result of a police raid instigated by Stanley Worth. It was
claimed that Duncan was using a piece of flimsy white material and that this was
dragged through Constable Cross’5
fingers when Duncan was seized at the séance.
This important issue ‘Did Helen Duncan in fact have a sheet over her head’ is looked
2
Psypioneer will publish the L.S.A., (Light) reports at a later date.
3
Prosecuting Counsel assigned to the case was John Cyril Maude KC who was also a senior MI5
officer and had been in charge of dealing with such matters as raised by Mrs. Duncan disclosing
sensitive security information page 70. We shall also see that it is claimed Henry Elam, prosecuting
council, also discloses the trial was brought for security reasons.
4
Lieutenant Stanley Worth was the leading prosecution witness whose testimony about the Duncan
séances formed the foundation of the Crown’s case; he was responsible for the instigation of the police
raid on the 19th
January 1944, which lead to the subsequent prosecution of Duncan and co. Stanley
Raymond Worth was also a serving Naval Special Branch Officer page 84.
5
Rupert Cross was a War Reserve Constable (also a bookshop keeper) and was the policeman who
grabbed Duncan at the séance on January 19th
1944.
245
at in detail. The author gives a sequential breakdown of the séance involving all the
sitters and who sat where. This differs quite importantly to the seating arrangements 6
presented at the trial and gives us an investigative view from many aspects of the
various sitters and what actually happened.
For example: - When WRC Cross testified at the trial, he changed this arrangement 7
to falsely state that Mrs. Homer was facing the audience. These discrepancies show
that WRC Cross changed his account in order to justify a false seating plan. He was
perfectly aware that there were no chairs against the wall next to the curtains and
that Mrs. Homer sat against the door near the wall because he said so in his witness
statement and Lt Worth confirmed it. (page 213)
The book gives a balanced coverage of the defence, led by the Spiritualist Charles
Loseby,8
and often pointing to surprising points that he, and his associate J. Simpson
Pedler did not act upon and take further. For example a frequent point that presented
itself at the trial would be, how the materialised spirit forms disappeared, this
question is vital at the point when Duncan was seized by the police officer. This is to
say, did the spirit form return back to the cabinet by going through the curtains, or did
it disappear by sinking into the floor?
On this point it is interesting to note that only the prosecution witnesses Lieutenant
Stanley Worth, and Rupert Cross (the policeman who grabbed Duncan at the séance
on January 19th
1944) stated that all the alleged materialised spirit forms returned to
the cabinet through the curtains. All the fourteen other witnesses called, which
included four for the prosecution: - described that the figures seemed to collapse as
they stand and ‘it is just gone’ with a large amount of white material on the floor,
which also disappeared. 9
(page 204)
This is very relevant because only Worth and Cross claimed that Duncan returns to
the cabinet with a sheet over her head, ready to re-appear again as another spirit,
whereas others, including prosecution witness agree that all the forms or Duncan
disappeared downwards into the floor. The crucial centre piece of the trial is that
Helen Duncan was caught by Cross standing in front of the curtains with a sheet over
her head. Other witness accounts show that in fact Duncan was seated inside the
cabinet, but ended up in front of the curtains: - It also explains the reason why these
witnesses did not see Mrs. Duncan being grabbed in front of the curtains by Cross,
6
WRC Cross provided a plan of the séance room for January 19th for the court, the trial judge Dodson
asked the prosecution to make a copy of the plan of the room for the jury. This was later published in
‘The Trial of Mrs. Duncan’ Jarrolds London 1945 which contains a narrative and transcript of the trial.
Hartley also publishes this seating plan and his revised plan.
7
WRC Cross’s pre-trial signed statement and the testimony he gave at the trial shows that he made a
false statement at trial, previously stating Mrs Homer was sitting near the wall against the door, and not
facing the audience.
8
Charles Loseby was an active spiritualist he was part of the Spiritualists’ National Union deputation
to meet with the Home Secretary in 1943.
9
This does not include the control Albert or Peggy who returned to the cabinet via the curtains.
246
but that when the curtains were opened by Cross she was seen seated on a chair in
the cabinet. (pages 204-5) Loseby fails to take full advantage of this crucial point!
The author also shows that the recorder Sir Gerald Dodson failed on numerous
occasions to summarise the evidence clearly, and misled the jury.
In conclusion
Hartley gives an excellent breakdown of the court case and the evidence given. Much
time and research has resulted in the finer points, for example details about the
lighting conditions in the séance room, room dimensions, séance procedure, Duncan’s
controls, etc. The book contains 319 pages, integrated illustrations showing sequences
of events, an eleven page chronology of events and nineteen pictures.
Robert Hartley presents an open, thought provoking book, which takes the reader
through the trial of Helen Duncan and her co-defendants. Because Hartley has
revisited the evidence given in sworn statements, new perspectives have arisen which
underline the links between MI5 and Naval Intelligence and Special Branch. We
become aware of a network of changing accounts of the prosecution witnesses,
statements (e.g. Worth and Fowler's) were falsified, as was the seating plan of January
19th
when Duncan and co were arrested, that moved a prime prosecution witness to a
position they should never have occupied!
The author substantially backs his claim throughout his book of a conspiracy to
prosecute Duncan. Hartley shows, that the conspiracy almost became unstuck when a
man named Launcelot Lock placed a 5/- bet on January 3rd
in Oxford, which he
declared that in two weeks time the police will raid Mrs. Helen Duncan’s forthcoming
séance in Portsmouth. He bet that she will be charged and that a Naval Officer named
Worth would be involved.
A worthy read, indeed!
This book is available direct from the author: - drbobhartley@hotmail.com @
£12.50 plus £1.75 P&p Europe £3.30, Rest of World £5.50.
It can also be ordered from any U.K. bookshop, as Bertrams, the book wholesaler, has
it in stock. Customer will then get it next day without having to pay P&p.
_____________________________
247
A LAWYER PROTESTS
[Note by Psypioneer: - Charles Loseby was Helen Duncan’s defence counsel, Robert
Hartley in his book reviewed, gives interesting backgrounds to Loseby and other main
characters in his book. Loseby was the legal spokesman for the Spiritualists’ National
Union, in a second deputation of spiritualists that visited the Home office (1943) in
the hope for an amendment of the Vagrancy Act.]
I found in ‘LIGHT’ November 30, 1929, that Charles C. Loseby was fighting the
‘Vagrancy Act’ much earlier in 1929: -
In the course of a vigorous defence to a charge against his client Edith Mary
Spurway, of “pretending to tell fortunes”, Mr. C. E. Loseby, a barrister, protested
strongly in Leicester Police Court on November 15th, against the “obsolete and
ridiculous act of a hundred years ago,” under which the case was brought - the
Vagrancy Act of 1824.
In an address lasting over three-quarters of an hour, counsel accused the
police of having made a grave blunder; Mrs. Spurway was well-known and a
householder; a summons could have been issued, he pointed out, and she “should
not have been treated, as this ridiculous Act describes, as a `rogue and a
vagabond' ”. He added that he hoped the Press throughout the country-
would
report the case “so that insults of this kind can be made known.”
Mr. Loseby said that his client had been taken through the streets into a tram,
then to a prison cell in which she was “locked up like the veriest criminal.”
Two women witnesses for the prosecution admitted that they had signed a
document in which the defendant stated that she did not profess to tell fortunes.
In the course of his defence Mr. Loseby said:
If Mrs. Spurway is a rogue and a vagabond because she believes certain
things then I also am a rogue and a vagabond, and so are several great
scientists in this country. There are a vast number of people who believe as I
believe, and there is no field of scientific research in which greater
developments are expected shortly than in this. In my submission it is no
more a crime to be clairvoyant than to have acute eyesight.
_____________________________
248
CAN THE SJRC SURVIVE?
Nowadays there is vigorous survival research in the UK, associated especially with
the SPR Survival Committee and with PRISM, a joint venture of Spiritualists and
psychical researchers. This revival presents a challenge to an earlier group, the
Survival Joint Research Committee, founded in 1963. (The committee is a registered
charity, and is sometimes mentioned with the legal term “Trust” at the end of its
name.)
Dr Peter Hallson, who still serves on the SJRC, described the work of the Trust in Psi
Researcher (the SPR magazine) No 14 Autumn issue 1994 (available on line to SPR
members, as with SPR Journal and Proceedings.) He suggests that it was the
brainchild of Maurice Barbanell, though Mostyn Gilbert and Alan Mayne were also
present at the creation.
At that time in late 1963, a great war raged in psychical research. In “The
Spiritualists” (1962) Trevor Hall had accused sometime SPR president William
Crookes of concealing an affair with the medium Florence Cook behind his
newspaper articles about her materialisations. This intensified in 1964 when Dr Hall
re-opened “The Strange Case of Edmund Gurney” an SPR pioneer who died
tragically. Writs soon flew.
The creation of a committee which brought together Spiritualists, Christians and
psychical researchers in harmonious cooperation was therefore valuable, and
foreshadowed the ending of the Cold War between Spiritualists and psychical
researchers around 1990. Perhaps surprisingly, Mostyn Gilbert, who could be the
centre of controversy at SPR AGMs, played a considerable role as SJRC secretary,
keeping the peace, not least through tactful minutes.
The SJRC was involved in publications and conferences, and in such research areas as
table turning, survival pacts, and the physiology of trance. But as years passed, its
own survival was threatened.
Early members, such as Alan Mayne, Paul Beard, Allan Barham and Richard
Sheargold, retired or passed away. Newer figures in survival research such as David
Fontana and Montague Keen made their own relationships with Spiritualists.
Research also became more technical. Perhaps the SJRC’s most famous publication,
jointly with CPS was “The James-John Experiment” (1973) which illustrated the
difficulty of ruling out alternative explanations.
Another publication involving two of its members, “The Barbanell Report” (1987)
edited and with an introduction by Paul Beard led to an entertaining public difference
of opinion between Beard and Tony Ortzen about the authenticity of the supposed
communicator. Who was best qualified to judge - the old friend or the recent
colleague?
The trust is chaired by Denise Iredell, one of the handful of persons who can recall a
sitting (two actually) with Helen Duncan. Now the committee is planning a new cycle
249
of activity. Dennis Bury, the secretary, is working on a new survival experiment. He
notes:
The Trust has elaborated many experiments in its time and these are distilled in a
sensitively designed experiment. Such experiments require teamwork and careful
handling from the human perspective and also from the scientific.
If you would like to be kept informed of SJRC activity, please contact
sjrctrust@googlemail.com SJRC also hope to present a series of debates in which the
pros and cons of survival research are discussed.
.
. _________________________
MAURICE BARBANELL (continued)
1902 – 1981
[Editor’s note: Barbanell died on July 17th
1981. The issues of “Psychic News” dated
July 25th
and August 1st
were devoted to Maurice Barbanell. The “Two Worlds” tribute
is printed below from pages 199-202, August 1981.]
Editor's six-month psychic probe
lasted for six decades
Here is Maurice Barbanell's own account of how his psychic quest began. Tony
Ortzen, assistant editor of "Psychic News'' has been appointed acting editor of "Two
Worlds". This is to ensure uninterrupted publication of the magazine.
I HAVE been told that my psychic story really begins in a previous
incarnation of which I have no knowledge. Red Cloud, the guide of Estelle
Roberts, who gave me my finest evidence of individual survival after death,
and in whose seance room Psychic News was born, said I had made a promise
in a former existence. This was to reincarnate and devote my life to
spreading Spiritualism.
So far as I am aware my psychic story started undramatically at a meeting of
the Ghetto Social and Literary Club in London's East End. I was the unpaid
secretary with a twofold task.
It was my job to obtain, without fee, famous literary and artistic figures to
speak on a variety of subjects, a feat I achieved with success. This was mostly
because these eminent authors were intrigued to find cultural yearnings in
London's East End.
250
My other task was, irrespective of what the speaker said, to lead the
opposition so as to ensure a good discussion. My colleagues always told me that
I managed to excel in this direction.
During my secretaryship some friends invited me to be present at the seance,
the first I had ever attended.
Only when it ended did they tell me it was a mock affair staged for fun
Nevertheless, as a teenager it produced subconsciously an antagonism to
Spiritualism.
Like so many young men I had abandoned orthodox religion. My mother was
devoutly religious. My father was an atheist who steadfastly refused to
accompany her to any orthodox services despite her lament that his absence
would shock their friends.
In my youth I heard so many arguments about religion between my parents, in
which incidentally my father always won, that I adopted his atheism, which later
changed to agnosticism.
It is necessary to mention the personal background to set the scene for what
followed.
One night at our social and literal club there was no eminent speaker. Instead
our guest was a young man named Henry Sanders, who spoke about his
experiences in Spiritualism When he finished my colleagues turned to me for my
usual opposing opening speech from the floor.
I surprised them. Despite my then fairly recent mock seance attendance, I said
this was a subject on which only those with experience could venture any
worthwhile opinions. As I had made no personal investigation my opinions were,
therefore, valueless. Naturally the rest of the evening was not a hectic one for
discussion.
When it was over Sanders approached me. Was I serious, he asked, in my
statement that only those with experience based on inquiry should venture to
declare their views? If so, was I prepared to investigate?
“Yes,” I replied. Moreover I would reach no conclusion until I had spent six
months on this quest. I still have the diary in which I noted the date when the six
months would end. Here I am, a half century later, still inquiring...
Sanders invited me to attend a home circle which met in a nearby tenement.
The date was arranged. I went accompanied by Sylvia, who was then my fiancee
and is now my wife. The circle in this dingy block was composed of a mixture of
young and old Jews who all seemed earnest though un-prepossessing.
The medium, a middle-aged woman, Mrs. Blaustein, was said to go into a
trance. In that state, I was told, entities belonging to differing nationalities would
control and speak through her.
251
This happened, but did not impress me. So far as I could tell, there was no
evidence which would satisfy me that these indeed were “dead” foreigners
speaking through her lips.
Nevertheless in view of my promise I presented myself at the second sitting
where a similar demonstration by her was given. It seemed to me that at one
stage of the proceedings I fell asleep, either through boredom or being tired.
When I woke I apologised. I was told to my surprise, “You have been a Red
Indian.”
It was my first mediumistic trance, but what happened was a complete blank
to me. Nevertheless the guide known as Silver Birch had broken formidable earth
barriers and spoke a few words in a husky and almost guttural voice. It is far
different from what I am assured are the simple but eloquent tones that so many
have now heard.
The sequel was the formation of my own home circle where the Silver Birch
entity gradually developed as his control became a seemingly simple process of
merging his individuality with mine. There were degrees of awareness in this
unfolding process of my mediumistic development.
I was not keen on the trance condition, probably through my vanity in
wanting to know what was said and done through my bodily mechanism.
At one stage there was a fascinating happening. As I lay in bed on the night
after a sitting, everything that had been said through me unrolled on a kind of
cinema screen so that I became familiar with all that the others had heard.
This no longer obtains because of the intervention of Hannen Swaffer, the
famous journalist, whom I came to know intimately. Our association began when
we spent three years addressing public meetings all over Britain, to audiences
totalling 250,000, at weekends. Sometimes there were two and even three
meetings on one day.
Always we travelled by car from London on the Saturday morning; often we
returned in the early hours of Monday. The meetings had to be held at weekends
because of my commercial life which virtually ended when PN was launched in
1932.
He was intrigued by my trance mediumship and came to love Silver Birch.
Swaff said the guide's teachings were being wasted as they were heard by only a
handful of people. As a natural propagandist he wanted them to be disseminated,
reaching the largest possible number of people, and thought the perfect vehicle
was PN. I demurred. Obviously, I said, I would be open to criticism by
publicising my own mediumship in the newspaper I edited. Finally, after much
argument, I agreed to do so, provided my identity was withheld.
There was another problem to be solved. The guide was then known, as he
still is to a few intimates, by a nickname which was deemed unsuitable for
252
publication. He was asked to choose one for this purpose. Silver Birch was his
selection.
The next morning, in my office, the mail included a postcard from Scotland
with no name or address of the sender, but with a splendid photograph of Silver
Birch trees on it.
The teachings of what was called, and it still is, Hannen Swaffer's home circle
regularly appeared in PN. Curiosity was constantly aroused as to the medium's
identity which for long was kept secret.
Swaff, however, brought so many visitors from among his famous friends that
I felt the stage was reached when the mystery should be ended. I wrote an article
announcing that I was Silver Birch's medium.
I should mention in passing that, when you work in a confectionery factory,
you soon lose your taste for sweets. And when you are an editor you are not
attracted by publicity as too many humans are.
The Silver Birch teachings have been recorded by two shorthand writers. The
first was Billy Austen, then my assistant editor. His place was taken by Frances
Moore, who still acts as “the scribe”, the name by which the guide always calls
her.
Occasionally the seances have been tape-recorded. There are several of these
recordings obtainable today. Once even a gramophone record was made for
public sale.
Because all the sessions were being reported in shorthand, I was asked if I
would forego the practice of having the proceedings recalled for me later in bed.
It was explained that an expenditure of psychic power became involved. I
agreed. To test the state of trance Silver Birch once asked Swaff to stick pins
into me. Though blood was drawn I felt nothing.
There are critics calling themselves psychic researchers who dismiss guides
as the medium's secondary personalities. I am aware of all the problems involved
in trance mediumship.
Mainly they stem from the fact that a guide has to control the medium'
subconscious mind.
This, unlike a telephone, is a living thing, and, therefore, is bound to colour
to some extent whatever is transmitted from the spirit world. Development
consists in obtaining master over the unconscious mind.
In my working life I use words every day. I have never yet written or dictated
an article with which I was satisfied when I read it. Inevitably I find when
looking at the typed material that I can improve it by altering word phrases and
sentences.
253
No such problem arises with the guide's teachings. These flow perfectly,
requiring usually only commas semi-colons or full stops. Another interesting
aspect is the occasional use of words that I regard as archaic and do not form
part of my normal vocabulary.
Silver Birch's distinctive and separate individuality - I believe there is a
spiritual relationship - has been proved to me and to my wife many times. In
the early days we had what was probably our most remarkable evidence.
He told Sylvia that in connection with a certain matter which presented a
seemingly insoluble problem to us both, he would provide an answer. At the
time we both attended the regular direct voice sittings of Estelle Roberts. Silver
Birch said at the next one he would speak through the trumpet to Sylvia and
mentioned the words he would say.
Of course, Estelle was told nothing about this. You can imagine how
curious we were to see what would happen. Estelle's guide, Red Cloud, was
obviously in the picture because of the references he made that only Sylvia and
I understood.
As the perfect master of spirit ceremonies he staged the matter admirably by
keeping us waiting almost to the end. Then he said to Sylvia that the next
communicator was for her. In the darkness on which Red Cloud always
insisted, the phosphorescent trumpet moved towards her. Through it spoke
Silver Birch and repeated the words he promised to pronounce.
Evidence of separate identity came frequently in another circle where I sat
regularly. Here with a non-professional medium named Nena Mayer we always
had the direct voice. It was fascinating for me after Silver Birch had spoken
through me in trance to hear him, communicating through the trumpet.
There are other occasions I could mention, but one more will suffice. A
Fleet Street editor was bereaved when his son was killed in the last war.
Without mentioning his name I asked Estelle whether he could be invited to a
voice seance.
She replied by reminding me that the rule was that only those whom Red
Cloud had agreed should be there could come. I said I would leave it and ask
him when next we met.
The following day she telephoned me to say that Silver Birch had appeared
to her and pleaded for my friend to be invited. So she agreed. Needless to say
the “dead” son communicated to him and to his wife.
A few months ago I was invited to an engagement party. When my name
was mentioned, two guests, a husband and wife, were very interested because
they knew it.
The husband was Mrs. Blaustein's grandson, but, curiously enough, not a
Spiritualist.
254
Notes by the Way: -
A NEW PIONEER
We sometimes refer casually to Psypioneer as “The Pioneer” - as in “The Pioneer’s
article about Hydesville was…..” But now we shall have to be more precise because
there is a new pioneer on the scene in England. The SNU has launched a newsletter
called - “The Pioneer”!
A good house journal is a great blessing to an organisation. CFPSS as an infant was
greatly helped by the fact that its newsletter, later called ”Quarterly Review” was
edited by a professional journalist - their chairman Col. Lester. The SAGB’s
“Service” and the ISF’s “Yours Fraternally” provide long-term stability.
The SNU in contrast has been unable to settle on a format. In house publications have
come and gone (my favourite title was “Via Veritas”, inevitably satirised as “Vino
Veritas”).
Pioneer is a hallowed word in psychic studies. Anna Mary Howitt Watts wrote
“Pioneers of the Spiritual Reformation” (1883) partly about her father William
Howitt. Paul Tabori recalled early psychical researchers like Carrington in “Pioneers
of the Unseen” (1972).
In 1999, the SNU itself opened the Pioneer Centre at Stansted Hall, for healing.
Nevertheless, to start a newsletter in this field called “The Pioneer” when there is
already one called “ Psypioneer” is surprising, but indicative again that most SNU
members have never heard of Psypioneer, although we often feature SNU celebs of
yesteryear like Emma, Barbie and ACD.
“The Pioneer” contains useful information about new developments in the SNU.
Ambitious plans are in train for an internet mission. There are 367 SNU churches,
2339 individual members, 375 provisional members, and 16,500 church members.
That may seem of limited interest, but some organisations have been coy about their
membership figures – how many GWCSL members are there for example? How
many in 1950? One cannot write much history without reliable statistics.
Apart from the well-known Seven Principles, the SNU also has seven goals, of which
the first is “To procure perfect religious equality”, a sentiment very much in tune with
the spirit of the age. (In England a pro-government think tank called on 31 October
for the relative downgrading of Christmas.)
That reminds me of my favourite SNU story. An official was denouncing the
continued permeation of orthodox trappings into their churches (like the word
“churches” for example” ) “Right,” suggested a mischievous colleague, “we’ll start
by abolishing Christmas holidays for our staff.” They didn’t. LP…
_______________________________________
255
HELEN DUNCAN
Was Not Trialled as a Witch, as Some Reports May Suggest!
In 1944 at the Old Bailey London there was a remarkable trial. A professional
materialisation medium, Helen Duncan together with Ernest Homer (1), Elizabeth
Jones (2) and Frances Brown (3) were all charged upon an indictment containing seven
counts, (4) the first two counts under section 4 of the Witchcraft Act 1735. To the
indictment, all four pleaded not guilty.
This is not to say that Helen Duncan and her co-defendants were in fact charged with
witchcraft. The team for the prosecution were John Maude K.C., and Henry Elam. Mr
Maud in his opening words made this statement as to what he claimed was meant by
the first two counts of the indictment regarding the witchcraft act: - I want to make it
abundantly clear at the very commencement of this prosecution that this is in no way
connected with witchcraft; it is in no way aimed at honest beliefs, whatever they may
be, of any man or woman. What it is aimed at is something quite different. It is aimed
at just ordinary common fraud. (5) The other indictment counts did not concern the
Witchcraft Act, but that the accused caused money to be paid by false pretences.
The charges, by the time the trial got to the Old Bailey on Thursday 23rd
March 1944,
had been considerably upgraded. On Wednesday January 19th
1944 Helen Duncan
was arrested and charged under the Vagrancy Act of 1824, section 4 (6) of which lays
down that ‘Every person pretending or professing to tell fortunes, or using any subtle
craft, means or device, by palmistry or otherwise, to deceive and impose on any of His
Majesty’s subjects…shall be deemed a rogue and vagabond’ This charge carried a
maximum of three months imprisonment.
Helen Duncan, when arrested on January 19th
was refused bail and held in custody
until 25th
of this month at which time she was bailed. (7) On February 8th
the charge
against Duncan, Ernest Homer, Elizabeth Jones and Frances Brown was upgraded to
a charge of ‘Conspiracy to defraud’ replacing the previous Vagrancy Act which now
meant that there would need to be a jury trial, and if guilty a custodial sentence.
Hence the trial was to be re-located at the central criminal court in London – The Old
Bailey.
On March 15th
at a meeting with the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Maude
and Elam were on thin ice. Even with the ‘Conspiracy to defraud’ charge, they would
still need to prove that monies were paid to see materialised forms at the Duncan
séances in question, these séances did not come with guarantees! At this point a
clause from the 1735 Witchcraft Act was to be used in the first two counts of the
charge. The relevant words in this section are that any person who may ‘pretend to
exercise or use any kind of witchcraft, sorcery, inchantment or conjuration’ this
would change the whole ball game, Maude and Elam only needed to show that
Duncan had pretended to materialise her dead. On this charge a conviction would
carry up to a year’s imprisonment.
On day seven of the trial Friday 31st
March 1944 (8), Mrs. Helen Duncan and her co-
defendants were found guilty on the first count of the indictment for conspiracy to
256
contravene the Witchcraft Act. The jury was discharged from giving a verdict on the
other six counts. The Recorder considered his course of action over the weekend and
sentenced the accused on the morning of Monday 3rd
April, 1944.
Printed below is taken from ‘The Trial of Mrs. Duncan’ edited, with a forward by
C.E. Bechhofer Roberts, Jarrolds Publishers, London 1945.
The Recorder of London, Sir Gerald Dodson passes his sentence: -
EIGHTH DAY - MONDAY, 3RD APRIL, 1944.
SENTENCES
THE RECORDER: Helen Duncan, Ernest Homer, Elizabeth Jones and Frances
Brown, you have been found guilty of conspiring together to commit an unlawful act,
namely, of pretending to recall spirits of deceased persons in a visible and tangible
form; the emphasis, of course, is upon the word "pretending". Whether genuine
manifestations of the kind are possible, the verdict of the jury here does not decide,
and this court has nothing whatever to do with any such abstract questions. The jury
found that the methods adopted by you in the exhibitions covered by the charge
amounted to a fraud upon those who witnessed them.
It has been argued that the Statute of 1735, which makes false pretending an
offence, is old and out of date, but fraud existed long before that Statute was passed
and has prevailed in one form or another ever since. It was also suggested that Mrs.
Duncan should be allowed to give a demonstration of her powers. Well, as I have said
already, if this had taken place and nothing had appeared, Mrs. Duncan would have
been condemned even before she had been tried. It would have been in effect a
reversion to the dark ages, and to something very akin to trial by ordeal. It was not a
question of Mrs. Duncan taking the risk; it was a question. of her being tried
according to the laws of the land, and there was nothing in this Prosecution directed
against Spiritualism as such; and all those who may believe in genuine manifestations
of a spiritual kind will, I imagine, welcome the expulsion of fraud from any of its
observances. In law there is no uncertainty at all about the position of Spiritualists,
among whom there are many sincere and devout persons. They are free to go their
own way, and they are only responsible to the law when fraudulent practices are
proved. In this respect they are no different from any other section of the community.
In this case the jury appeared to have little hesitation in finding that all of you had
participated in a common fraud, and I must deal with the case upon that footing.
There are many people, especially in War-time, sorrowing for loved ones. There is a
great danger of their susceptibilities being exploited, and out of this yearning for
comfort and assurance there are those unfortunately who are ready to profit. Many of
those persons who seek that solace are trusting by nature and poor in circumstances,
and the law endeavours to protect such persons against themselves. Now in this case
Mrs. Duncan made £112 in six days, which is some indication of how willing people
are to dabble in the occult. That being so, it is highly important in the interests of the
community as a whole that these demonstrations should be conducted without fraud.
257
I have considered very anxiously the course that I should take, and I have come to
the conclusion that, as the jury have found this to be a case of plain dishonesty, I
can make no distinction between the accused and others who are similarly
convicted. In the case of Mrs. Duncan, she has made the most out of this, and the
sentence of the Court upon her is that she be imprisoned for nine months.
So far as you, Frances Brown, are concerned, it is a long time ago since you
were convicted of shoplifting, and I dismiss that from my mind altogether. It is quite
plain that you took an active part in this, particularly by the exhibition of these
photographs. It is quite true that they were so crude that you could hardly imagine
that they would deceive anybody, but you were active in trying to impress upon them
the genuineness of these exhibitions by the handling of these photographs. The
matter cannot be therefore passed over in your case without there being some
penalty, but I make it as lenient as I can, and the sentence of the court upon you will
be one of four months' imprisonment.
So far as you, Ernest Homer, and you, Elizabeth Jones, are concerned, I think
you are in a somewhat different position, both of you. I think it may well be that, like
other people, you engaged Helen Duncan, and it may well be that your enthusiasm
for what you may believe led you to close your eyes to what was going on. You both
of you have good characters, and under those circumstances I do not think it is
necessary to pass any sentence of imprisonment upon either of you, but I trust in
future you will be on your guard against those who are only too ready to make
money at the expense of credulous people. I am willing to believe that you belong to
that class, although it is not a matter which can be regarded as altogether a matter
without doubt. However, I am going to give you the benefit of that doubt, having
regard to all the circumstances of the case, and particularly with regard to your
good character hitherto, and I trust you will guard against such a situation in future
to the utmost of your power.
In those circumstances you will both be bound over to be of good behaviour for a
period of two years in your own recognizances in the sum of £5, which means you
will hear no more about this if you behave yourselves and keep out of trouble;
otherwise consequences are apt to follow, you understand.
Helen Duncan after a failed appeal on Monday 19th
June 1944 was released from
Holloway prison on Friday 22nd
September 1944. She died at home in Edinburgh on
6th
December 1956.
References
1). Ernest Homer came from Staffordshire, who was a druggist, not a qualified chemist. He was looked
upon by the court as a man of good character. The court was aware of two mediums that practiced their
mediumship at his premises (‘Homer’s Drug Sores’. 301, Copnor Road, Portsmouth) and had
convictions. One was serving a two year sentence in connection with some offence committed against a
boy that the offender met on Homers premises.
2). Elizabeth Anne Jones came from Newbridge, Monmouthshire, but referred throughout the trial as
Mrs Homer, she had lived with Ernest Homer for some twenty odd years (she had married George
Arthur Jones when nineteen, and from whom she had been separated for 24 years) Jones had one
daughter, she was at this time (1944) aged 50. Together they ran The “Master Temple Psychic
Centre”; (this was registered as a spiritualist church on 19th
August 1940) which was situated over
258
‘Homer’s Drug Sores’ 301, Copnor Road, Portsmouth. The centre consisted of one room, and the
activities that went on therein were the focus of the trial. It is interesting to note that between 11th
February 1942 and 11th
February 944 the court had receipts which showed that some £450 had been
handed to charities, not doubt this was reflected in their sentences.
3). Frances Brown came from Durham, married on the 1st
March, 1913, and lived with her husband at
Newbottle, County Durham. She was Duncan’s assistant and invariably acted as a prompter to the
audience in the séance room, and also acted as Duncan’s booking agent. On 27th
August 1929, she
appeared at Marlborough St police court charged with larceny and sentenced to 10 weeks
imprisonment, then on September 16th
she again was charged for shoplifting at Sunderland police court,
with 3 other cases in consideration she was sentenced to another 3 months imprisonment.
4). These indictments were made up by the following. In the first count that between the 1st December,
1943, and the 19th January, 1944, you conspired together and with other persons unknown to pretend
to exercise or use a kind of conjuration, to wit, that through the agency of the said Helen Duncan spirits
of deceased persons should appear to be present in fact in such place as the said Helen Duncan was
then in, and that the said spirits were communicating with living persons then and there present,
contrary to section 4 of The Witchcraft Act, 1735
In the second count you are all four charged that on the 19th January of this year you pretended to
exercise or use a kind of conjuration, namely, that spirits of deceased persons should be present in fact
in the place where Helen Duncan then was, contrary to section 4 of The Witchcraft Act, 1735.
In the third count you are charged that upon the same day, 19th January of this year, you with intent to
defraud caused Stanley Raymond Worth to pay 25s. to Ernest Homer (that is, the said Ernest Edward
Hartland Homer) for the use or benefit of yourselves by false pretences, the pretence being that you
were then in a position to bring about the appearance of the spirits of deceased persons and that you
then bona fide intended so to do without trickery.
In the fourth count you are charged with a similar offence upon the 19th January of this year in respect
of causing Bessie Lock to pay 7s. to Ernest Homer for the use or benefit of yourselves upon the same
false pretences with intent to defraud.
In the last three counts you are charged with effecting a public mischief, in each count upon the
following dates respectively, namely, the 14th day of January, the 17th day of January, and the 19th
day of January of this year, the particulars being that you effected that public mischief by holding a
meeting to which His Majesty's liege subjects were admitted on payment, and at which meeting the
said Helen Duncan professed that the spirit of a deceased person was in fact present and visible through
her agency. Those particulars are the same in each of those last three counts. This section is taken from:
- ‘The Trial of Mrs. Duncan’ Jarrolds London 1945 page 26 – 7.
5) ‘The Trial of Mrs. Duncan’ Jarrolds London 1945 page 27
6). Francis Ward Monck was the first medium to be jailed in England under the Vagrancy Act 1824
See: - ‘New Light on Monck’ http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP6.pdf See: - also ‘Rogues and
Vagabonds’ http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.9September06.pdf
7). £100.00 bail was secured by John .B. McIndoe S.N.U., president 1930 – 1938.
8) Helen Duncan and Co were found guilty on the 96th
anniversary of Hydesville, generally accepted
by spiritualists as the birth of Modern Spiritualism.
___________________________
259
Japan's Leading Spiritualist Passes
[Note by Psypioneer: - Professor Wasaburo Asano, President of the ‘Japanese
Society for Psychical Research’, featured in three articles in 2007 see: - Newsletters
3.3 ‘A Japanese Spiritualist’ 10
‘Spiritualism in Modern Japan part 1’ 11
Spiritualism
in Modern Japan part 2’ 12
.]
Below is taken from Psychic News March 27th
1937
JAPAN'S leading Spiritualist, Professor Wasaburo Asano, has passed over after
spending twenty years of his retirement in teaching our truths.
Asano was formerly a professor in a college of naval engineering, and he
carried out all his research with scientific care.
He had three outstanding experiences with four of the world's greatest
mediums - Lewis, the Welsh physical medium, William Hope, the psychic
photographer, “Margery” Crandon and Valiantine.
Lewis underwent the strictest examination by Asano, who, with others,
spent twenty minutes tying him up. As the crowning effort of a wonderful
seance, Lewis's coat was taken off while he was still roped and thrown outside
the circle.
When the lights were turned on. Lewis was still tied up-and still in trance.
With Hope the experiment was equally striking. Asano and his friends took
two dozen photographic plates to Crewe. Together with Hope they magnetised
the plates, loaded them into slides i n another room, marked the slides, and,
after exposure, developed them.
Hope did not touch the plates at any time during the experiment, but the
professor and his friends saw two psychic extras of Japanese women whom
they recognised.
At a sitting with “Margery” Crandon and Valiantine in America, Asano
heard a Japanese spirit speak in his own language.
___________________________
10
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.3March07..pdf
11
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.5May07..pdf
12
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
260
AUSTRALIA IS TO BE FLOODED
WITH PSYCHIC BOOKS
Below is taken from Psychic News April 3rd
1937
New Drive To Bring Home Spirit Truths
A propaganda campaign to bring home to Australia the truths of Spiritualism is
being directed from Melbourne.
In this article, the writer, who is secretary of the Malvern Spiritualist Church,
Melbourne, tells how Spiritualism is faring in Australia.
By W. F. Croft
SPIRITUALISM has an uphill fight in Australia, though the conversion of so many
great scientists and leading clergymen in what we affectionately term “the old
country,” must necessarily exercise a great influence on public opinion here.
In this corner of the Empire, the great majority of the public is either apathetic or
positively hostile towards Spiritualism. This, to a great extent, is due to the mistaken
teaching of Orthodoxy, though, even here, several ministers of orthodox churches are
convinced Spiritualists.
Ministers Testify
Outstanding among these are the Rev. D. Huston, of the Congregational Church of
Richmond, Melbourne, Victoria, and the Rev. J. A. Farquharson, a member of the
Liberal Catholic Church, both of whom openly admit their conviction, and the Rev.
Irving Benson, a Methodist who, though, so far as I am aware, has not openly advo-
cated Spiritualism, has published articles in one of our leading daily papers which are
purely Spiritualistic.
The great trouble in this state, Victoria, is that we have a superfluity of little
churches, dotted all over the City of Melbourne and its suburbs, without a central
body, either advisory or in control. The movement is thus so broken up, and the
attendance at each of these little churches so insignificant, that they make no
impression on the public, as orthodox churches do.
These latter are strictly limited in number, occupy conspicuous positions and are
fine, impressive edifices.
Additionally, of course, there is behind them the authority of centuries, but - and
this is encouraging - there is strong evidence here, just as there is in all civilised
261
countries, that Orthodoxy, with its creed of blind faith, without an atom of proof, no
longer satisfies the modern mind.
This is indicated by the steadily decreasing number of those who attend their
centres, and the tremendous growth of the materialistic philosophy of Rationalism.
The chaotic condition of the world to-day is due to the materialistic view of life -
living for this short span of life alone which governs the great majority of mankind.
Real Rationalism
The only thing-
that can emancipate humanity from this thralldom is the knowledge
which Spiritualism, and only Spiritualism, can supply. The time is ripe for its triumph,
for it is Rationalism, par excellence. Its facts are as provable as anything in mathe-
matics. It accepts nothing which cannot be proved, and offers proof, beyond the
possibility of doubt, of all that it asserts.
Several of our most intellectual leaders have come over from Rationalism; but the
great majority of our adherents are of the working class.
Nevertheless, there is a solid foundation of sincere and earnest workers, and a large
number of speakers and mediums.
Their Meurig Morris
Notable among the latter are Mrs. D. Leisk, of Brisbane, Queensland - one - of the
world's greatest trance mediums; Mrs. Browning and Mrs. Seaton; and another great
healing medium and psychic diagnostician, Mrs. Plum senr.; all of Melbourne,
Victoria.
Mrs. Leisk has been considered comparable with Mrs. Meurig Morris, and Mrs.
Browning with Mrs. Osborne Leonard. Mrs. Seaton is also a very fine trance medium.
I must not forget Mrs. E. W. McFarland, of East Malvern, Melbourne, whose
trance mediumship is unique. Wonderful manifestations come through her. Her Chin-
ese guide takes such complete control, that the medium's personality disappears.
Her mannerisms, speech and facial features are changed as striking readings,
delineations of characteristics, events in the lives of relatives and friends of members
of the audience, who have passed over, and sometimes events in the past lives of
some of her listeners, and predictions of future events, flow from her lips.
Her guide has an amusing vein of humour. I have seen the whole audience
convulsed with laughter over his remarks.
The medium's eyes are closed during the whole of her trance, and it is strikingly
evident that she is totally unconscious of what is coming through her, as it would be
impossible to prevent a smile, if she were conscious.
262
Gifted Mediums
The two greatest mediums of Sydney are men - Charles Bailey, one of Australia's
greatest mediums, and Alf Rayner, a very gifted psychic.
I know, from visitors from South and Western Australia, that the movement is very
much alive in both of these states, but I am not in touch with it in either.
An effort is now being made, here in Melbourne, to establish a psychic centre for
propaganda literature, psychic healing, the developing of mediums and carrying out
missions throughout Australia, with the view of organising the movement.
Two Propagandists
This is being sponsored by Charles Neil, at one time a councillor of the City of
London, Edgar Tozer, one of the oldest and most experienced Spiritualists in Victoria,
who is well-known throughout the Commonwealth, and myself - a mere infant in
Spiritualism, not yet quite six years old, though secretary of a Spiritualist church.
Hitherto, the propaganda work, which was initiated about two years ago, has been
carried out solely by Charles Neil at his own expense. In his generosity and
enthusiasm for the cause, he has imported and given away over 600 copies of such
books as Findlay's “On the Edge of the Etheric,” and J. Hewat McKenzie's “Spirit
Intercourse.”
Light In The Darkness
From our psychic centre, we intend to flood Australia with 50,000 copies per
annum of similar books. We know, from the result of Neil's generous gifts, that the
steady flow of these works will put new life into the movement, and bring in great
numbers of those who, at present, are out in the dark.
Unfortunately, the great majority of those who attend Spiritualist churches in our
country come for one thing only - personal messages. They will not read Spiritualist
literature, unless it be something short, pithy and with a kick in it.
___________________________
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
‘Red Cactus: - The Life of Anna Kingsford’ By Alan Pert @ £14.95 + pp ISBN: - 978-
1-74018-405-2 See. Psypioneer 3.5 issue: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.5May07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860.
£14.95 + pp. ISBN: - 978-0-9556539-0-2. See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
263
‘Magical Spiritualism a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of
Modern Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis Published May 2000 by Psychic
Pioneer Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 Inc postage (please add 10%
for airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his
death’ Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is
a small booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc postage (please add 10% for airmail).
Both Psychic Pioneer Publications £4.00 Inc postage (please add 10% for airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on the
web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian
friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free and direct by
sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to
discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
264
