{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v3_n12_dec_2007.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V3 N12 Dec 2007","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 3, No 12; December 2007
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
A future for Psychic Studies – Leslie Price 265
Heavy blow to SPR 267
Origin of Modern Spiritualism – J.S. Grimes 267
Nineteenth-Century articles about Mesmerism - Carlos S. Alvarado 277
Maurice Elliott and the Healing Commission – Leslie Price 284
Funeral of Mr. B.S. Nayler 285
1888 – 1889!!! - Emma Hardinge Britten 288
Books for sale 292
How to obtain this Newsletter by email 292
=========================================
Psypioneer would like to extend its best wishes to all its
readers and contributors for the festive season and the
coming New Year.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A FUTURE FOR PSYCHIC STUDIES
Everyone who studies the pioneers is grateful to the College of Psychic Studies. It
publishes LIGHT, the oldest psychic journal founded in 1881, still has books from the
original British National Association of Spiritualists in its library, and preserves
records of such luminaries as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Helen Duncan. The
College is a major resource in survival investigations. When the Psypioneer Project
was first launched in 1999, the College made a small grant, and the research
assistance to us continues to this day.
CPS however is changing. The impetus goes back to Paul Beard, who was in a sense
“The Last Spiritualist” – that is to say in his writings, he summed up the potential
and problems of a century of Modern Spiritualism. (No comparable thinker, with
such wide experience, has since arisen in Spiritualism.) But Paul also put the College
firmly in the New Age Movement. His colleague and successor Brenda Marshall
continued this wider path, keeping in touch with the SPR and CFPSS, and expanding
the healing and counselling side of the work.
265
Gradually the human potential side of the programme has become as influential as the
intellectual and psychic. The latter is still very much there – mediums are available
daily, some of the healers have psychic backgrounds, and leading research figures
such as David Fontana and Serena Roney-Dougal were in the late 2007 programme.
In the Spring 2008 programme (www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk), the first page notes
that “the nature of our work has evolved to incorporate the study of the wider areas of
human consciousness, but still focuses on the development and understanding of
mediumship, psychic ability, healing and the growing capacity of science to explain
and explore these phenomena.” The flagship Tuesday and Friday evening meetings
reflect this and are, incidentally, very modestly priced. Like any similar charitable
body, CPS is caught in financial and legal pressures. The overheads of running a
central London centre are enormous; this necessitates a vast programme of fee-
earning activity. Many staff are required, whose maintenance is in turn expensive,
despite an invaluable team of volunteers. Intellectual resources such as archives, a
library or a journal become a problem, taking up space that might be used more
productively.
Recently these pressures have become noticeable. After the last part-time College
archivist retired, the archives were closed, and the recent biography of Conan Doyle
by Andrew Lycett had to be written without reference to them. Members cannot get
access at present to old volumes of LIGHT. Earlier this year, the post of librarian, was
reconfigured. Library, book sales and archives were added to membership, and
beneath a new management structure, an amenities services coordinator was
appointed.
During the summer, a short cull of borrowable books from the library took place. All
lending libraries have to do this if they are not to be buried with new titles. The
choices reflected the change of interest among members, including “This World and
That” by Payne and Bendit (once one of three books by them on the CPS reading list);
“Conjuring Up Philip”, about the Canadian attempt to create a fictitious
communicator in a physical circle; and “A Religious Outlook for Modern Man” by
Raynor Johnson, an inspiring figure in the 1960-70s College.
Although London has always had a floating population, there was in the old days a
core of long-serving CPS members, often sharing personal bereavement, with
experience in mediumship, whose expertise was reflected on the CPS Council. They
would agree that the kind of problems with the phenomena, discussed in such authors
as Payne and Bendit, had not been solved, and still face newer students for psychic
development (on which CPS offers more in depth classes than anywhere else in the
country, indeed possibly the world). These members are diminished by death, and
only a handful of members joined staff and the council for the AGM on 10 October.
At the AGM the president, Max Eames, as well as noting the extra attention the
College is giving the healing field (which faces new regulatory challenges) signalled
an intention to reactivate the archival side as soon as the necessary admin support is in
place, including security. For all who want to relate the present and future to the past
of psychic studies, that would be welcome news. LP
266
HEAVY BLOW TO SPR
With the passing of Wyllys Poynton on 20 November 2007, the SPR lost not only its
librarian and its JSPR review editor, but a much-loved member of the small
headquarters team which includes her husband Dr John Poynton the SPR hon.
Secretary. Wyllys was also consistently helpful to the Psypioneer Project, facilitating
our access to material in the SPR library, and answering numerous queries. One of her
last impacts was in the field of theosophical history. A long review of Ernest
Pelletier’s magnum opus “The Judge Case” in JSPR October 2007 was possible
because Wyllys was receptive to the review idea.
A moving humanist funeral was held at Mortlake on 30 November, and tributes were
read from many friends and colleagues in Britain and South Africa.
__________________________________
JAMES STANLEY GRIMES
1807 – 1903
“Modern spiritualism originated at my lectures in Poughkeepsie, N. Y., in 1843”
The name Grimes mostly prefixes the name of Andrew Jackson Davis1
, a typical
example of this: -“ In the autumn of 1843, a Mr. Grimes delivered in
Poughkeepsie a number of lectures on Animal Magnetism, performing during his
course a number of illustrative experiments. Among the persons on whom Mr.
Grimes essayed to operate was young Davis; but in this instance his most powerful
efforts failed to produce any apparent effect.”2
However, Grimes’ lectures and experiments were generally successful and
considerable excitement was created at this time with his psychological science.3
Among others inducing the power to producing the magnetic phenomena was
William Levingston. In ‘The Principles of Nature, Her Divine Revelations and a
Voice to Mankind’ William Fishbough, in his introduction July 1847 gives credit to
Grimes: - “…the first magnetic experiment preformed on Mr. Davis by Mr. Levingston
1
Andrew Jackson Davis, first published work “Lectures in Clairmativeness” (New York, 1845) See: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/2.1%20PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
2
‘The Principles of Nature, Her Divine Revelations and a Voice to Mankind’ By and Through Andrew
Jackson Davis. Published by John Chapman, London 1847 Introduction page X.
3
Historically Grimes is an important figure because of, for example., Electrobiology 1850c (a method
inducing hypnosis). Mr. G.W. Stone was a practicing electrobiologist in America, and later gave
performances in England; he may be best remembered as bringing with him Mrs. W. R. Hayden to
England in October1852 : - See http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.10October06.pdf
267
was manifestly suggested by the prevailing excitement out of Mr. Grimes’s lectures
and experiments…..4
.
Grimes’ role ends here in most literature about the early development of Modern
Spiritualism. But in fact he was one of its early investigators. He claimed he was the
first to publish an expose of the Fox Sisters, claiming that Mr Greeley requested him
to give the expose to the Tribune 5
for publication in 1850.
J. Stanley Grimes ( formerly Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in the Castleton
Medical College) published ‘The Mysteries of Human Nature explained by a New
System of Nervous Physiology,’ to which is added, A Review of the Errors of
Spiritualism, and Instructions for Developing or Resisting the Influence by which
Subjects and Mediums are Made. Published by R. M. Wanzer, Buffalo 1857. The
extract below is taken from pages 346 – 362: -
Origin of Modern Spiritualism
Modern spiritualism is not only a delusion, but a fraud. It originated in a
selfish attempt to impose upon the public, in order to make money, by palming
off the promptings of a few designing biologists, uttered through their own
mesmerized subjects, under the pretence that they were the inspirations of
disembodied spirits. It is important that this should be known to those who are
honestly credulous concerning the spiritual origin of the new dispensation. If I
show that the head of the animal is a serpent, I expect that my readers will infer,
that those parts of the reptile which follow behind his head, partake of the same
character.
Modern spiritualism originated at my lectures in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., in
1843, in the following manner:
I gave a course of lectures on phrenology and the physiology of the nervous
organism, illustrating each lecture with experiments in mesmerism. I had just
discovered the principle of credencive dreaming, and the wonderful power of
language upon the nervous organism; and, here, for the first time, I attempted to
reduce my new theory to practice, in public.
I found no one in Poughkeepsie who professed to believe in mesmerism, and,
at first, my lectures were very poorly attended; but, after I had succeeded in
operating upon a number of well known citizens, my lecture room was crowded
by the best people of the place, and a high degree of interest manifested.
One evening I attempted to mesmerize a number who had never been tried
before, by merely talking to them, without any exercise of the will, and without
4
Introduction page Xi. ibid reference 1
5
Horace Greeley (1811 – 1872) founded the New York Tribune which first appeared 3rd
April, 1841,
and which he was to edit for over 30 years. Use the new search engine for Horace Greeley: -
Psypioneer News http://www.woodlandway.org/
268
making the usual mesmeric “passes.” Before this time, mesmeric experiments
had only been performed according to the method taught by De Leuze, in his
work on mesmerism, which may be briefly described as follows: the subject and
operator sat directly face to face, and stared in each other's eyes, the operator
holding the subject by the thumbs. As soon as the subject became a little
exhausted, he closed his eyes, and then the operator drew the ends of his fingers
over them several times, and made a succession of passes, by moving his hand
from the centre of the subject’s forehead, to his extremities. After wearying
himself by these passes, the operator resumed his former position, by taking,
again, hold of the thumbs; during all this time, the operator kept his mind
intently engaged upon his subject, and exercised his determined “will,” that the
subject should go to sleep. If the subject began to nod, or in any other way show
signs of somnolence, the operator asked, “Are you asleep?” and, if the reply was
“Yes,” then he was supposed to be in the mesmeric sleep. This process of
mesmerizing generally consumed at least one hour at each sitting; and sometimes
not less than thirty sittings were found necessary before the operator triumphed,
and the subject was thrown into the mesmeric state.
The theory' of this operation was, that a fluid - a species of animal magnetism
- proceeded from the operator, which could be directed, by his will and his
hands, to the mind and body of the subject. When I first essayed my own skill in
the mesmeric art, I humbly imitated my predecessors, and contented myself with
learning what they professed to know of the philosophy of the matter, which I
ultimately found to be just enough to show that they were in almost total
darkness.
It was not until the mesmerizers professed to excite the phreno-organs, that I
considered myself as competent as any one to form an independent opinion.
When they pretended to discover and excite social organs in the very centre of
the ipseal class, and ipseal organs in the midst of the social class, I felt confident
that they were mistaken; though, of course, I could not, at first, point out the
manner in which they committed their errors. In order to do this, it was necessary
to discover what was not then known to any one - namely, the real nature of the
agent by which the manifestations were produced, and, also, the nature of the
susceptibility which made some persons such remarkable subjects, while so
many others were proof against all the attempts made to mesmerize them.
I did, at length, succeed in discovering, first, that the principal, if not the only,
active agent, in almost all cases, is the language of the operator; second, that the
susceptibility of the subject is of such a nature that it may properly be classed
among diseases; third, that the principal effect is upon the conforming social or-
gans, Submissiveness, Kindness, Imitativeness, and Credenciveness, upon the
upper part of the head, (see Fig. 67… Not shown) I was busily engaged in
preparing a work on the subject, which I afterwards published, when I gave the
course of lectures and experiments in Poughkeepsie.
After having tried various experiments with electricity and magnetism, I
found that they had no perceptible effect; and, having noticed that the caprice
and imagination of the subject evidently was the source of some of the strange
phenomena, I resolved to try what effect could be produced by operating, by
269
words only, upon the minds of susceptible persons, and soon came to the con-
clusion, that nearly all the phenomena are produced in this way.
In Poughkeepsie, I first tested the principle publicly, by calling for volunteers
from the audience to come forward, and allow me to ascertain, by an experiment,
whether any of them were susceptible or not. Nearly twenty came forward, and
seated themselves upon a designated bench, when I requested them to take hold
of a cord which I gave them, and to close their eyes. The cord, though originally
prepared for electric experiments, was now unprepared, so that it produced no
effect whatever, except upon the imagination of the subjects. As for myself, I did
nothing but talk to the audience, to keep them from laughing, or otherwise
interrupting the experiment. In less than five minutes, several of the persons who
had hold of the cord, seemed to be deeply affected, though in different ways.
One shook as if under the influence of an ague; another broke out into a profuse
perspiration, grew deathly pale, and seemed nearly ready to faint away; a third
sat rigid and stiff, as if frozen, while his eyes rolled up, and his breathing was
loud and stertorous, as though suffering with apoplexy; several others were
affected, but no two alike. I called several of them before the audience, and
controlled their minds, and through their minds controlled their bodies, merely
by making various assertions. It made no difference how absurd the assertions
were, the subjects instantly assumed them to be true, and proceeded to act
consistently with them. I found that my silent will was powerless against my
language. It was evident that the conforming faculties of the subjects were in a
state of excitement, and that, if the subjects learned my wishes, by any means,
they were ready to act conformably to them.
It appeared to me that this was the commencement of a new era in the history
of mesmerism. Hereafter, in order to understand the philosophy of mesmerism,
phrenology must be studied, that the relation of the conforming social powers, to
the other powers of the mind and to the body, may be understood.
Among the persons who were operated upon, I noticed two who manifested
slight symptoms of clairvoyance, by shrinking from the approach of my hand,
when it was obvious that they could not see it. This is a rare phenomenon - so
rare that I blame no one for doubting it or disbelieving it altogether. But I am
bound in candor to say, that there is some truth in clairvoyance; though it is
much less practicable and less provable, than it is commonly supposed to be by
its believers. I mentioned to the audience the fact which I observed, but told
them, that I did not propose to exhibit clairvoyance, and advised them to try
experiments for themselves, as they could do so quite as well as I could, if they
would proceed in the proper manner. I then described to them the usual method
of proceeding, to ascertain whether any one is clairvoyant or not. The next day a
large number tried the experiment, and several reported that they had succeeded.
Andrew Jackson Davis, one of the persons affected on this occasion, was an
apprentice boy. He had never previously made his appearance in public, and,
although I noticed that he manifested some slight indications of clairvoyance, he
was not otherwise as good a subject for experiments, as several others whom I
selected for that purpose.
270
Another individual who attended the lectures, and became interested in the
subject, was Mr. Wm. Levingston, a merchant tailor. One day, during the time that
the course of lectures were proceeding, Davis went into Levingston's shop, and
proposed to try the experiment which I had described. Levingston consented, and
proceeded to the trial. In a few minutes, Davis declared, that he could see through
the back of his head, and Mr. Levingston has assured me, that Davis actually read
a newspaper which was held up behind him, while his eyes were closed, as
readily as if he had been looking at it with his eyes. The rumor, that young Davis
was an extraordinary clairvoyant, soon spread through the town, and naturally
created a great sensation. Hundreds flocked to Levingston's store, to test the
wonderful powers of the clairvoyant, and Levingston soon learned to make
medical prescriptions, and to charge a fee for each.
At the conclusion of one of my lectures, a gentleman (I believe that he was a
physician), arose in the lecture room, and asked, if I sanctioned the clairvoyant
practice of medicine, and whether it is a fact that clairvoyant subjects can
perceive the internal organs, and describe their healthful or diseased condition;
and, also, whether they can, in the mesmeric state, prescribe for diseases, as they
pretend, with more accuracy than a regular scientific physician can. In reply, I
took occasion to speak, in strong terms of condemnation, of the clairvoyant prac-
tice. I stated then, what I still teach, that clairvoyance is a fact; that it is
occasionally exhibited as a phenomenon of disease, but that it is not, at present,
of any practical value; for though, sometimes, we may be surprised by the
accuracy of the perceptions of clairvoyants, we are much oftener disappointed,
and, on the whole, no reliance can be placed upon them. I consider clairvoyant
medical practice as a miserable species of quackery. If it apparently produces
cures, it does so through the influence of the credencive principle of the mind
operating upon the body, as all other quackery does.
Of course, there could be no sympathy between the clairvoyant practitioners
and myself, after a public declaration of such sentiments; and, though my
lectures in Poughkeepsie gave birth to modern spiritualism, and first caused A. J.
Davis to come into notice, I distinctly protested at the time, and always since,
against the principles and the practices which grew thus illegitimately out of my
labors, and finally resulted in producing a motley brood of pretended spirit
mediums.
When the clairvoyant business grew dull in Poughkeepsie, Levingston took
Davis with him on a tour through Connecticut, curing diseases wherever he went.
At length, they arrived in the city of Bridgeport, where they made the
acquaintance of a universalist clergyman, the Rev. S. B. Brittain, who has, from
that time to the present, been the principal manager of the spirit-medium
business, and is now one of the editors of the “Spiritual Telegraph.” Davis and
Levingston were both universalists; the Rev. Mr. Smith, of Poughkeepsie was their
pastor, and visited Bridgeport with them. It was therefore natural that they
should make the acquaintance of the universalist clergyman of Bridgeport, and
that be should become interested in their proceedings. Living in the same house
with Mr. Brittain, was his brother-in-law, Dr. Lyon, a botanic physician, who took
a still deeper interest in the clairvoyant; for when Levingston and Davis
prescribed medicines, Dr. Lyon was employed to put up the prescriptions, for
271
which he, of course, received a small share of the sum paid by the patient.
Levingston was the magnetizer, Davis was the clairvoyant, or instrument of
perception, and Lyon enacted the subordinate part of apothecary, and received the
smallest share of the profits. Why could not Dr. Lyon unite the functions of
magnetizer and apothecary, and thus dispense with the services of Mr.
Levingston, and send him home to attend to his other avocations? Could not the
business be better managed, in more skillful hands? These were the suggestions
which were frequently made to Davis, by his Bridgeport friend. To these delicate
hints, were added promises of large profits - of going to New York, opening an
office, and doing the clairvoyant business on a large scale; of getting out a
wonderful book, becoming famous, and making a fortune for the whole clique.
Dr. Lyons solicited and obtained permission, occasionally, to mesmerize Davis,
and used him as a kind of pathescope, by means of which to ascertain the
condition of his patients, and the best remedies with which to cure them; and
thus, he soon succeeded in obtaining a decided ascendency over his mind.
Poor Levingston began to perceive, that his magnetic sceptre was passing from
his feeble hands into the more powerful grasp of Lyon, Brittain & Co. At length,
Levingston found himself under the necessity of making a formal abdication, and
A. J. Davis passed under the dominion, and became the special subject, of Dr.
Lyon. I happened to be on board of the steamboat, with Levingston, when be was
on his way home, and received from him a particular account of his misfortune,
accompanied with bitter complaints against the conduct of Messrs. Lyon and
Brittain.
When Davis became the subject of Dr. Lyon, he, for the first time, learned, that
he was specially inspired by spiritual beings for a great work; that he was a
prophet and a seer; that his soul could leave his body, and go into the spirit
world, and get information of any description which he desired, and return again
to earth, enter his body, and make use of his corporeal organs of speech, to
impart the knowledge, thus obtained, to his fellow mortals. Davis did not,
himself, make the discovery of his own spiritual powers; nor did Levingston
discover that Davis was more than an ordinary medical clairvoyant. I freely
confess that I had no idea that he was remarkable for any but negative qualities.
Not so with Dr. Lyon; as soon as he had fairly obtained possession of Davis, his
eyes were suddenly opened, to perceive the miraculous powers of the young
man. It was announced, that he was “going to have a revelation;” and that he was
preparing to issue a book that would throw the Bible and all other books into the
shade. It was calculated, and boasted, that not less than fifty thousand dollars
would be realized out of its sale.
But Davis was notoriously ignorant and illiterate; he could not pronounce his
words as correctly as ordinary young men of his age; nor could he converse,
without grossly violating the rules of grammar. How, then, was he to write a
superior book? Would the spirits, who were to utter, through him, such
wonderful ideas, assist him also to clothe those ideas in good language? It was,
certainly, natural to expect that they would do this; nor can any reason be
perceived, why they might not inspire his mind with good notions of grammar,
as easily as of philosophy, chemistry, or astromony. But, alas! the spirits proved
272
capricious, and uttered their great thoughts, through Davis, in mean language and
bad grammar; mispronounced most of the technical terms and unusual words,
and manifested the utmost contempt for the rules of English composition. Those
who heard Davis utter his “divine revelations,” all agreed, that the language and
pronunciation were his own, but the ideas evidently proceeded from some higher
intellectual fountain. To publish the precise words of Davis, was out of the
question; and, in this dilemma, the spirits - so it is pretended - were applied to
for advice, when they, very graciously, relieved the book-makers from the
difficulty which the spirits themselves had created, by appointing a scribe for
Davis, whose duty it should be to take the ideas which be should utter when in
the spiritual state and modify the language, so as to adapt it to the public taste.
The Rev. Wm. Fishbough, a universalist clergyman, was the person whom the
spirits designated to fill the important office; and he certainly proved himself
fully competent to perform the task which the spirits assigned him.
Before proceeding to the formal commencement of the “Divine Revelations,”
several preliminaries were arranged which deserve the especial notice of the
public. If spiritualism originated in a deliberate design to impose upon the
public, by passing off crude theories of religion and philosophy, under the false
pretence that they were Divine revelations, and at the same time to make money
by the fraud, it is not to be supposed, that the conspirators would publicly avow
their designs, or expose their private movements to public scrutiny. In such
cases, as in all criminal trials, circumstantial evidence affords the only means by
which to prove the guilt of the accused; but this is oftentimes of such a nature as
to be perfectly overwhelming. There are two views taken of this matter, which
are hostile, and utterly irreconcilable with each other: one is that A. J. Davis was
assisted by unearthly spirits to compose the book entitled “Divine Revelations,”
that the spirits furnished the ideas, and Davis and Fishbough the language, while
Lyon sustained Davis by his magnetic influence, and Brittain aided and assisted
in the work, witnessed its growth, attested its genuineness, and advocated its
doctrines. The other theory is, that Davis was a mere dupe, and mesmeric
mouthpiece of Lyon, & Co.; that Lyon privately mesmerized Davis, and while in
the mesmeric condition, Davis was taught certain lessons, which when
afterwards publicly mesmerized, he could repeat, to the astonishment of the
uninformed witnesses, though, in his ordinary state, he, possibly, knew nothing
upon the subject; that Davis was inspired by those who employed him,
mesmerized him, and paid his expenses, and by no one else; that the pretence,
that be was assisted by disembodied spirits, was merely designed to excite an
interest in the minds of the weak and credulous, and create a sale for the
forthcoming book.
Before proceeding with the publication of the revelations, Davis was induced
“voluntarily," (so says his scribe,) to assign all his rights to the pecuniary profits,
to be derived from the sale of the revelations, to Lyon and Fishbough.
To appreciate the nature and full beauty of this transaction, it should be
known and considered, that Davis was mesmerized several times a day by Lyon,
in which mesmerized condition, he could be readily made, “voluntarily,” to sign
any document whatever. This fact should be considered, in connection with the
273
one previously mentioned, that Davis was induced, "voluntarily," to leave
Levingston, and choose Dr. Lyon for his magnetizer, and Fishbough for his scribe.
The copyright of the book was secured to Lyon and Fishbough before it was
written, and arrangements made to extend its publication into foreign countries.
It was seen by the sagacious spirits, that some wicked persons in this world
might attribute the work entirely to mortal minds, and deny the agency of spirits
altogether. To prevent this, to satisfy the public mind and make assurance doubly
sure, it was arranged, that the revelations should take place in the presence of
witnesses, whose veracity could not be questioned; and these witnesses were
nominated by the spirits themselves, by the mouth of Davis
After the suggestion which I have just made, that Dr. Lyon could privately
mesmerize and teach Davis his lesson, it will be obvious to the reader, that the
witnesses could only testify to the fact, that the lessons were regularly and duly
recited in their presence, but they could not know whether Davis had been
privately trained and instructed or not.
The question will now occur, why did not some of the witnesses or spectators
suggest the objection which I have made, that Davis might be privately taught the
recitations, which he publicly made? In reply, I would state, that it was then
known to but few persons, and to none that I know of, in New York city, that
such a mesmeric feat could be performed; and, if asked, how it happened that the
Davis and Lyon clique were acquainted with this method of managing a
mesmerized person, while their associates and witnesses were ignorant, I will ex-
plain, by stating, that I had performed this very experiment, and explained the
process publicly, both in Poughkeepsie and in Bridgeport, where these
originators of spiritualism resided. I did this before they became acquainted with
each other.
During the course of lectures which I gave in Poughkeepsie, at the time that
Davis was first mesmerized, I operated upon a young gentleman, named Potter,
and made of him what would, now, be called, by the spiritualists, a speaking
medium. As far as I know, he was the very first speaking medium that was ever
thus publicly made. If I told him that he was Henry Clay, or Macbeth, or Patrick
Henry, he instantly assumed the character, and acted accordingly, in the most
admirable and appropriate manner. One day, I met him in the street, and it
suddenly occurred to me, that I would try a novel experiment, which would be at
once a source of amusement and instruction to my audience. I requested Potter to
call at my room at Rutger's Hotel. When he called, I mesmerized him, and made
him believe that he was at home, in his own room, and that I was the spirit of
Spurzheim, and had appeared to him, to instruct him in the anatomy of the brain.
Taking up a series of drawings of the brain, I gave him a lesson, and made him
repeat it several times, and then promise that he would deliver a lecture upon the
subject, to the audience, that evening. Accordingly, in the evening, when I was
performing mesmeric experiments with him, in the presence of the audience,
upon a hint from me, he proceeded to lecture upon the anatomy of the brain, to
the surprise of his intimate friends, and very much to the amusement of the
audience. When he concluded, one of his acquaintances arose, and inquired
274
whether, by the exercise of my own imagination, I had inspired Mr. Potter with
my own ideas, and thus had enabled him to give the explanation to which they
had just listened with so much interest, concerning the anatomy of the brain? “I
know Mr. Potter very well,” said he; “and I know that he is totally unacquainted
with the subject, and does not even believe in phrenology; and yet he has been
talking, fluently and learnedly, in favor of the phrenological method of dividing
the brain; using technical terms readily, with which I know that he is
unacquainted. Will you please to explain this?” In reply, I referred him to Mr.
Potter himself, for an explanation. Potter, very honestly and seriously, assured
the gentleman and the audience, that, during the day, being in his own room, at
home, the spirit of Spurzheim appeared to him, and taught him the lesson which
he had just repeated. At my last lecture, I explained the mystery to the audience,
and taught them to operate in the same way.
I performed some experiments, also, in Bridgeport, of a similar character,
when a young man, named Gordon, who has since become a noted medium,
made his first public appearance.
The reader will now perceive, that, however much Dr. Bush may have been
puzzled, when Davis, from Poughkeepsie, with the aid of Lyon, from Bridgeport,
performed, in New York, the exploit of giving a pretended spiritual lecture while
in the mesmeric state, the solution of the mystery is very simple. I had, certainly,
some reason for believing, that they had learned the art from me, and had availed
themselves of my instructions, to accomplish their selfish purposes. Whether
they learned in this way or not, is immaterial; it is sufficient, that I have shown,
that there was an opportunity for them to learn to deceive in this manner: for,
when a wonderful occurrence is to be explained, it is foolish to look for
supernatural causes, when well known agents, simple and natural, are fully
competent to produce all the effects.
It would be much more pleasant to account for Davis' performances,
consistently with the honesty of the parties concerned, if it could be done; but
this seems to be impossible; and, when we find, that those who had the
knowledge and the opportunity which enabled them to deceive, had, also, a
strong pecuniary interest in doing so, we shall show a pitiful ignorance of human
nature, as well as of philosophy in general, if we do not conclude, that it is much
more likely that deception was practiced, than that the spirits of the departed
dead came upon earth and made use of an unlettered ignoramus, as a medium
through whom to utter important communications, touching the future destiny of
the human soul.
When all the arrangements were completed, Davis, in the presence of the
chosen witnesses, on stated occasions, went through various contortions, became
pale and cold, and then uttered a few words slowly, “ which Dr. Lyon repeated,
to make sure that they were correct.” Fishbough wrote them down and
afterwards made such trifling alterations as, in his judgment, were required, be-
fore giving them finally to the press! Dr. Lyon magnetized him twice a day, for
three months, before the revelations began, and thus prepared him for his task,
and was his constant companion during the delivery of the revelations.
275
Now, when it is known, that any educated person, who is susceptible to the
mesmeric influence, can easily be made to commit lessons in private, which that
person will afterwards honestly and innocently repeat before witnesses, and
sincerely and truly declare, that he received them from some spiritual source
unknown to himself; when it is known, that, on an average, at least one educated
person in fifty can be made such a medium as Davis, but far superior to him;
when it is known, that I actually made such mediums in Poughkeepsie, before
Davis became a medium, and hundreds in other places since, and stand ready
now to manufacture and supply any number of such, at short notice, and on
reasonable terms; “when it is known, that this book contains a full explanation of
the modus operandi, and rationale of the process, so that any one who reads
may practice the same thing;- when all this is known, those who still continue to
believe that Davis's pretended divine revelations are honest productions, must be
deemed, like all other fanatics, invulnerable to the influence of reason and
common sense. It may not be polite to call them insane, out it is, certainly, a
serious question, whether they stand in greater need of charity or of medicine.
The performances of Davis and Lyon were well calculated to attract public
attention. It was the first instance, in which one, pretending to be an inspired
prophet, had publicly advertised his revelations previous to their being uttered or
printed. There was something so business-like and apparently fair in the
proceeding, as, in some degree, to disarm suspicion. Among the many hearers
who took a deep interest in these singular proceedings, was the Rev. Geo. Bush,
a learned and pious Swedenborgian. He was naturally struck by the resemblance
of Davis's manifestations to those of the great Swedenborg, and, being himself of
an exceedingly honest, disinterested, and unsuspecting disposition, he was so far
imposed upon as to be induced publicly to advocate the genuineness of the
revelations, and at the same time to suggest (by way of apology for the errors
which mingled with the truths revealed,) that false spirits sometimes
impertinently interfered and inspired the seer with their unhallowed thoughts.
Prof. Bush published a small book which preceded and heralded the
revelations, in which he undertook to prove, that mesmerism harmonizes with
and corroborates Swedenborgianism; and that Davis's case was a unique and
extraordinary one, perfectly reliable and truthful, so far as human agency was
concerned; and that, whether true or false, the revelations were actually
prompted by the spirits of the dead. It is not strange that thousands of common
minds fell into a snare, which entangled the feet of so distinguished a divine.
Davis's revelations, on their publication, did not produce the excitement, nor
the profit which was expected by their authors; and the newly fledged
spiritualism was fast sinking from public notice, when a new wonder came to the
rescue, and lent it additional claims to attention. I refer to the so-called
“Rochester knockings.”
Davis was the first of the series of modern mediums. At the time of his
advent, there were no speaking, rapping, tipping, nor writing mediums. He stood
.alone, between heaven and earth, the single connecting link of mortal humanity
with the world of spirits. He occupied a high position, to which he had been
raised from obscurity, not by his talents nor his virtues, but by spiritual election!
276
He had neither wit, nor words, nor worth, natural nor acquired pre-eminence, nor
do he need such helps; greatness had been “thrust upon him,” without his choice,
and without the necessity of any achievement, on his part, except a masterly
passiveness of mind, which enabled the spirits to nestle in his brain, and hatch a
brood of wonders. Hitherto, great men had been obliged to travel a long and
rugged road, to reach their goal; but Davis moved in a new sphere of intellectual
excellence, through which he could float, during the periods of his mesmeric
sleep, to the delectable regions of an Utopian immortality. But he was not
permitted, for a long period, to pursue this path alone.
To be Continued………..
__________________________________
Nineteenth-Century Articles about Mesmerism:
A Selected Bibliography
Carlos S. Alvarado
In previous bibliographies published in the Psypioneer and in the Journal of
Scientific Exploration I presented books and articles in Google Book Search
(http://books.google.com/) covering several topics related to the study of psychic
phenomena (Alvarado, 2007a, 2007b). Some of these materials were about
mesmerism. Because the collection has much more to offer about this topic I have
compiled some additional references. These consist of over 100 articles about
different aspects of the mesmeric movement published during the nineteenth-century.
The list includes articles published in medical journals (e.g., London Medical
Gazette), general intellectual reviews (e.g., Dublin University Magazine), and
mesmeric periodicals (e.g., Zoist). Although most of the entries are in English, there
are a few in other languages such as Italian and Spanish.
The articles include many overviews of the topic (e.g. Animalischer Magnetismus,
1823; Animal Magnetism, 1837, 1858; Eve, 1845; Herfner, 1844; Mesmerism, 1867).
In one of the articles it was stated: “Every day we hear talk about marvellous facts
taking place through magnetism. Innumerable healings, real or supposed . . . the deaf
hear, the blind see, the most chronic diseases are healed; somnambules see through
opaque bodies . . . They predict the future . . . .” (Le Boyer, 1823, p. 101).
Some authors discuss particular phenomena (e.g., De Rochas, 1891; Lafontaine,
1870), incidents (e.g., De Bernacki, 1870; Mesmerism in Edinburgh, 1851), and
critiques (e.g., Mesmeric Humbug and Quackery, 1851; O, 1861), while others focus
on theory (e.g., Braid, 1843, 1849). James Braid (1843) offered explanations other
than animal magnetism for the phenomena. As Braid wrote: “My phenomena . . . arise
entirely from the patient keeping the eyes fixed in one position, (and the greater the
strain on them the better,) and the mind rivetted to one idea. By this means, some
peculiar impression is made on the nervous system, which induces a state of
277
somnolency, and a capability of being acted on in a manner so extraordinary that no
one could credit who did not witness the phenomena” (p. 25). On the other hand, there
were others that defended the magnetic force model. Mesmerism was defined by one
of them as the “state of a patient whose nervous fluid . . . is in communication or
rapport with some other person” (S., 1849, p. 101).
Other papers focused on medical applications of mesmeric procedures. This
included fascinating discussions about the control of pain during procedures such as
amputations and the removal of tumours (Elliotson, 1846), and other topics (Chandler,
1847; Hands, 1846). One paper was about dental applications of mesmerism (Purland,
1859).
There were also accounts of phenomena such as clairvoyance, as seen in
reports of observations with particular individuals such as Ellen Dawson (Barth,
1849), and Alexis Didier (Elliotson, 1849). In addition there were discussions of
phenomena such as the production of a variety of effects on mesmerized individuals
through silent suggestions (Adams, 1849; Ashburner, 1847).
The digital library has several reviews of books about mesmerism (see under
Review). These articles are particularly useful to study the reception of mesmerism.
The collection has many other relevant articles that have to be patiently
searched entering into its search engine a variety of terms (e.g., mesmerism, animal
magnetism) and authors. Once the reader is inside a magazine or journal it is possible
to continue to search. Publications such as Zoist, completely devoted to mesmerism,
are particularly rich in materials to be searched. These article searches should be
complemented with searches for books, of which the collection has many relevant
titles (see Alvarado, 2007a, pp. 114-115).
Articles: -
Adams, N. (1849). Remarkable mesmeric phenomena. Zoist, 7, 79-80.
American intelligence: Animal magnetism. (1837). American Journal of the Medical
Sciences, 21, 268-259.
Animalischer magnetismus. (1823). Leipziger Literatur Zeitung, No. 113, 897-901.
Animal magnetism. (1818). Literary Gazette and Journal of Belles, Lettres, Arts,
Politics, etc., No. 19, 312.
Animal magnetism. (1837). Eclectic Journal of Medicine, 2, 22-36.
Animal magnetism. (1838). American Medical Intelligencer, 2, 7.
Animal magnetism. (1838). Family Magazine, 5, 265-267.
Animal magnetism. (1838). London Medical Gazette, 2, 908-910.
278
Animal magnetism. (1858). In G. Ripley & C.A. Dana (Eds.), The New American
Cyclopaedia: A Popular Dictionary of General Knowledge (Vol. 1, pp. 593-598).
New York: D. Appleton.
Animal magnetism or mesmerism. (1843). New Age, and Concordium Gazette, 1, 14-
15.
Animal magnetism prohibited by the Vatican. (1842). Medico-Chirurgical Review,
36, 213-215.
Anti-Quack. (1839). Animal magnetism. Dublin Journal of Medical Science, 14, 245-
265.
Ashburner, J. (1847). On the silent influence of the will. Zoist, 5, 260-273.
Ashburner, J. (1851). Cure of large polypus of the uterus. Zoist, 9, 265-273.
Bagnold, Colonel. (1848). Mesmerism in India forty years ago. Zoist, 6, 250-254.
Barth, E.H. (1849). Ellen Dawson’s clairvoyance. Zoist, 7, 95-101.
Beroaldi, P. (1852). Sul magnetismo animale; oservazioni ed esperienze fatte
nell’ospedale civile di Vicenza. Annali Universali di Medicina, 139, 5-70.
Borner, P. (1881). Du magnétisme animal et de l’hypnotisme. Journal de Médicine,
de Chirurgie, et de Pharmacologie, 72, 48-51.
Braid, J. (1843). “Neurohypnotism.” Phreno-Magnet, and Mirror of Nature, 1, 25-26.
Braid, J. (1849). Letter to the editor. British Record of Obstetric Medicine and
Surgery, 2, 55-59.
“Brown, T.” (1837). Animal magnetism in London in 1837. Blackwood’s Edinburgh
Magazine, 42, 384-393.
Chandler, T. (1847). Extraordinary effects of mesmerism on a gentleman, perfectly
blind for eleven years. Zoist, 5, 1-11.
Chandler, T. (1851). A mesmeric scene a thousand years ago. Zoist, 9, 225-226.
Concerning mesmerism. (1865). The Eagle, 4, 345-349.
Cowan, C. (1838). Remarks on animal magnetism. London Medical Gazette, 2, 452-
457.
De Bernacki. (1870). Une séance de magnétisme. Le Magnétiseur: Journal de
Magnétisme Animal, 10, 216-219.
De Rochas, A. (1891). Mémoire relatif a certaines radiations perçues par les sensitifs.
Revue de l’Hypnotisme et de la Psychologie Physiologique, 5, 204-208, 300-306.
279
Dr. Lee on animal magnetism. (1867). Spiritual Magazine, 2(n.s.), 477.
Dugas, L.A. (1845). Remarks on a lecture on mesmerism published in the 4th No. of
the Southern Medical and Surgical Journal... Southern Medical and Surgical Journal,
1(n.s.), 236-245.
Elliotson, J. (1846). Accounts of more painless surgical operations. Zoist, 4, 1-59.
Elliotson, J. (1847). Cure of long-standing intense pains and other suffering and
extreme debility, with mesmerism, after the failure of endless and distressing
measures. Zoist, 5, 103-123.
Elliotson, J. (1849). Clairvoyance of Alexis Didier. Zoist, 6, 417-420.
Esdaile, J. (1846). Alleged painless operations by mesmerism. Medical Times, 15, 32-
33, 68-69, 145-147.
Estlin, J. B. (1943). An address on mesmerism. Provincial Medical Journal and
Retrospect of the Medical Sciences, 6, 303-308.
Evans, T. (1849). Cure of deafness. Zoist, 7, 89.
Eve, P.F. (1845). Mesmerism. Southern Medical and Surgical Journal, 1(n.s.), 167-
192.
Fact on the history of animal magnetism. (1853). Illustrated Magazine of Art, 2, 318-
319.
Gibbes, R. W. (1843). Human magnetism demonstrated. Phreno-Magnet, and Mirror
of Nature, 1, 229-231.
Giles, H.A. (1879). Mesmerism, planchette and spiritualism in China. Fraser’s
Magazine, 19(n.s.), 236-245.
Gregory, W. (1848). On the probability of the discovery of physical agents able to
produce the mesmeric state. Zoist, 5, 380-382.
H., A. (1849). Possibilities and probabilities in physical science. Mechanic’s
Magazine, Museum, Register, Journal, and Gazette, 51, 150-154.
Hamilton, G. (1843). Phreno-magnetic facts and deductions. Phreno-Magnet, and
Mirror of Nature, 1, 107-112.
Hands, D. (1846). Cures of severe female chronic ailments, with mesmerism. Zoist, 4,
75-82.
Hénin de Cuvillers, Baron [E.F.]. (1820). Introduction. Archives du Magnétisme
Animal, 1, 1-252.
Herfner, I. (1844). Mesmerism. Dublin University Magazine, 23, 37-53, 286-301.
280
Hodgson, R. (1843). Original views on mesmerism. New Age, and Concordium
Gazette, 1, 460.
Is it to be believed? (1844). Chamber’s Edinburgh Journal, 2(n.s.), 33-36.
Lafontaine, C. (1870). Études sur le magnétisme. Le Magnétiseur: Journal de
Magnétisme Animal, 10, 22-25, 50-52, 73-79.
Le Boyer, J. (1823). Quelques reflexions sur le magnétisme animal. Le Lycée
Armoricain, 2, 97-107, 205-214.
Lewis, L. (1848). Facts illustrating the silent power of the will. Zoist, 5, 323-325.
The link of union, between mind and matter.—An essay. (1844). Ladies Companion,
20, 178-181.
Litoff, I. (1851). Cure of a severely injured hip, by the patient’s eldest sister. Zoist, 9,
28-31.
Lloyd, W.W. (1847). Magnetism and mesmerism in antiquity. Zoist, 5, 273-285.
Macedo Pinto, J.F. (1845). Reflexões ao artigo do Sr. Gusamão sobre magnetismo
animal. Revista Universal Lisbonense, 4, 562-563.
Magic and mesmerism. (1843). Tait’s Edinburgh Magazine, 10, 484-492.
Magic, mesmerism, and madness. (1852-1853). Macphail Edinburgh Ecclesiastical
Journal and Literary Review, 13, 300-312; 14, 85-103.
Magnétisme animal. (1855). In A. Cheruel, Dictionnaire Historique des Institutions
Moeurs et Coutumes (part 2, p. 698). Paris: L. Hachette.
Magnetismo animal. (1873). Revista de Valparaíso, 1, 3-12, 41-44.
El magnetismo animal: Estudios fisiológicos sobre sus fenómenos. (1851). Eco
Literario de Europa, 2, 305-341.
Magnetismo animal ó mesmerismo. (1842). La Colmena, 1, 48-52, 127-132.
Magnetismo animale. (1861). In L. Rusconi, Dizionario Universale Archeologico-
Artistico-Tecnologico (part 2, pp. 921-922). Torino: G. Favale.
Martineau, H. (1845). Miss Martineau’s letters on mesmerism. The Dissector, 2, 74-
87.
Mason, R.O. (1892). Facts bearing upon the nature of a psychic medium. Medical
Record, 41, 459-461.
Mayo, H. (1838). New name proposed for mesmerism. London Medical Gazette, 2,
849.
281
Mesmer and mesmerism. (1856). National Magazine, 9, 217-224.
Mesmer and Swedenborg. (1847). United States Democratic Review, 20(n.s.), 102-
108.
Mesmeric humbug and quackery. (1851). Lancet, 2, 154-155.
Mesmerism. (1843). Eclectic Museums of Foreign Literature, Science and Art, 3, 52.
Mesmerism. (1843). New Age, and Concordium Gazette, 1, 17-18, 25-26, 33-35.
Mesmerism. (1845). Blackwood’s Edinburgh Magazine, 57, 219-241.
Mesmerism. (1867). In C. Knight (Ed.), Arts and Sciences or Fourth Division of “The
English Cyclopaedia” (Vol. 5, pp. 584-588). London: Bradbury, Evans.
Mesmerism and phrenology. (1842). Lancet, 2, 486.
Mesmerism in Edinburgh. (1851). Lancet, 2, 151-152.
Mesmerism in the lower animals. (1838). London Medical Gazette, 2, 27-28.
The methodology of mesmerism. (1849). Massachusetts Quarterly Review, 2, 401-
413.
Miscellaneous notices: Professor Elliotson and animal magnetism. (1839). American
Medical Intelligencer, 2, 369-372.
N., J.C. (1847). Review of Animal Magnetism, or Psychodunamy, by T. Leger. New
Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal, 3, 343-360.
Observation on animal magnetism. (1818). Analectic Magazine, 11, 34-39.
On mesmerism. (1845). Bulletin of Medical Science, 3, 186-188.
O., R.A. (1861). El magnetismo animal juzgado por la iglesia. La Verdad Católica, 7,
111-114.
Private experiments in phreno-magnetism. (1843). The Phreno-Magnet, and Mirror of
Nature, 3, 147-149.
Prest, W. (1843). Some of the causes of susceptibility of the magnetic influence.
Phreno-Magnet, and Mirror of Nature, 1, 309-311.
Purland, Dr. (1859). Dental and other operations in the mesmeric trance. Dental
Review, 1, 234-242.
Review of Animal Magnetism and Homeopathy, by E. Lee. (1838). Monthly Review,
2, 471-490.
282
Review of Facts in Mesmerism, by C.H. Townsend. (1841). Southern Literary
Messenger, 7, 807-808.
Review of Human Magnetism, by W. Newnham, and Letters on Mesmerism, by H.
Martineau. (1845). Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 64, 190-227.
Review of Illustrations of Modern Mesmerism, from Personal Investigation, by J.
Forbes. (1846). Metropolitan, 45, 112-113.
Review of Letters on Mesmerism, by H. Martineau, and Medical Report of the Case of
Miss H--- M---, by T.M. Greenhow. (1845). Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,
63, 464-496.
Review of Magnetismo ed Ipnotismo, by G. Belfiore. (1898). Nuova Rivista Clinico-
Terapeutica, 1, 391.
Review of Mesmerism and Its Opponents, by G. Sandby. (1844). Gentleman’s
Magazine, 22(n.s.), 58-60.
Review of Mesmerism in India, by J. Esdaile. (1846). British and Foreign Medical
Review, 22, 475-487.
Review of The Power of the Soul Over the Body, by G. Moore, Human Magnetism, by
W. Newnham, Mesmerism and Its Opponents, by G. Sandby, and Letters on
Mesmerism, by H. Martineau. (1845). Eclectic Review, 18 (n.s.), 369-392.
Russell, J.R. (1852). On mesmerism. British Journal of Homeopathy, 10, 26-41.
S. (1844). Animal magnetism: Prevision. Eclectic Magazine of Foreign Literature,
Science, and Art, July, 423-424.
S., C. (1837). Animal magnetism. Yale Literary Magazine, 3, 61-67.
Scientific intelligence: Animal magnetism. (1838). Dublin Journal of Medical
Science, 14, 177-178.
S., L.H. (1861). Animal magnetism and hypnotism. Mercersburg Review, 13, 238-
251.
S., R.S. (1844). Animal magnetism and neuhypnotism. Eclectic Magazine of Foreign
Literature, Science, and Art, September, 71-86.
S., W.F. (1849). Mesmerism and language. Zoist, 7, 101-102.
Terry, H. (1838). Animal magnetism. London Medical Gazete, 2(n.s.), 682. (Two
letters)
Thompson, H.S. (1846). Local mesmerisation of cerebral organs. Zoist, 4, 232-233.
Thompson, R. (1843). On mesmerism. Western Lancet, 2, 153-175.
283
What is mesmerism? (1851). Blackwood’s Edinburgh Magazine, 70, 70-85.
Whitfeld, H. (1848). On the mesmeric excitement of cerebral organs; sympathy of
taste and mental state; the nervous fluid; and the source of filial affection. Zoist, 6,
266-272.
References: -
Alvarado, C.S. (2007a). Bibliography of books and articles about mesmerism,
Spiritualism, psychical research, and related topics in Google Book Search.
Psypioneer, 3, 113-120 (Online: http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.5May07..pdf )
Alvarado, C.S. (2007b). Online historical materials about psychic phenomena.
Journal of Scientific Exploration, 21, 607-615.
Dr. Carlos S. Alvarado is Assistant Professor of Research in Psychiatry and
Neurobehavioral Sciences at the University of Virginia
(http://www.healthsystem.virginia.edu/internet/personalitystudies/Carlosbio.cfm), and Chairman of
Domestic and International Programs at the Parapsychology Foundation
(www.parapsychology.org)
___________________________
MAURICE ELLIOTT AND THE HEALING
COMMISSION
In 1952, as the Fisher papers in Lambeth Palace Library disclose, there was unhealthy
friction between the Guild of Health, the Guild of St. Raphael and the Churches
Council of Healing. It was with this tense background that the authorities had to select
persons to serve on the Archbishops’ Commission on Healing, which was eventually
to report in 1958. There was a feeling that they needed at least one person who knew
about Spiritualism. (The challenge of Harry Edwards’ psychic healing was already
apparent to them).
Gilbert Shaw, the Anglo-Catholic exorcist, did not wish to serve, though later he did
give evidence. The way was therefore clear for a successful suggestion as transcribed
below. (This material is copyright to the Trustees of the Lambeth Palace Library.)
284
The Palace
Chichester
10 October, 1952
“My dear Bishop
The only person the Bishop of Lewes can think of who knows anything about
spiritualism, and whom I had also thought of and asked him about, is the Reverend G.
Maurice Elliott, Birdham Rectory, Chichester.
He probably knows more about spiritualism than any other priest in the Church of
England. At one time he was involved in it himself in a rather dangerous way, but he
has been completely converted from the wrong aspects.
He is now most knowledgeable, most wise in his comments on what spiritualists do,
and feared by the wrong kind of spiritualists.
He is a great friend of R.J. Campbell, who has a great belief in him. Indeed it is true
that through Campbell’s friendship with him, I have got to know him and have been
able to help him. And recently after giving him charge of a small parish, appointed
him to a small living….
Yours sincerely
(signed)
George Cicestr “(i.e. George Bell)
The Right Reverend
The Lord Bishop of Ely
__________________________
[Note from Psypioneer: - Volume 1.18 October 2005 6
‘The Cause in other lands:
Australian spiritualism’ on page 225, a brief reference is made to a literary gentleman
Mr. B.S. Naylor who in 1869 started the first Spiritualistic paper in Victoria. Shortly
after this in 1870 William Terry (Melbourne) founded ‘The Harbinger of Light’,
printed below is the obituary of Mr. B.S. Naylor taken from the Harbinger.]
Taken from ‘The Spiritualist’ October 22, 1875 page 201: -
FUNERAL OF MR. B. S. NAYLER
This veteran labourer in the cause of Freethought and Spiritualism passed
quietly away to the spirit-world on the evening of Wednesday, June 23rd. Mr.
Naylor was born at Darlington, in the county of Durham, England, in March 1796.
He resided in Holland for upwards of twenty-five years, and was for some time
6
See: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/18.PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
285
English professor to the University of Amsterdam. At the age of twenty-eight he
married the daughter of an eminent Dutch painter, named Liernur. Mrs. Nayler
inherited the gift of her father, and produced during her married life many excel-
lent pictures, her forte being principally fruit, flowers, and birds. They were
deeply attached to each other, and celebrated their golden wedding early last year,
Mrs. Nayler passing away a few months after. Mr. Nayler commenced the
investigation of Spiritualism, and having assured himself of the fact of spirit
intercourse by opening up communication with several of his departed friends, he
was not slow in taking steps to proclaim the new gospel, and delivered a series of
lectures at the Mechanics' Institute, Melbourne, commencing August 11th, 1869.
The lectures were well attended, but the lecturer's religious opinions were too
radically Unitarian for the majority of his audiences, and much opposition was
shown both to him and the cause he advocated. The lectures were afterwards
published in pamphlet form and had a considerable circulation. During the latter
part of 1869 he started the first Spiritualistic paper in Victoria (The Glowworm),
but the circulation was inadequate to sustain it, and after a six months' struggle it
succumbed.
Mr. Nayler lectured occasionally for the local association of Spiritualists, and
about three years since accepted an engagement as lecturer for the Stawell
Lyceum, which he filled until the end of last year. At the beginning of the present
year Mr. Naylor came to Melbourne, where he was provided with means to end his
days in comfort. He was not, however, the man to remain idle, and within a fort-
night of his death he published a pamphlet criticising the creeds of modern
Christendom, and proposing a scheme for the establishment of an association of
Freethinkers. He is also the author of the book A Discussion on the Unity, Duality,
and Trinity o f God, published by Trubner and Co., of London, and other works.
Mr. Nayler's last appearance in public was on the platform of the Temperance
Hall, on the 13th ult., where he gave the preliminary reading to Mr. Hughes's first
lecture. He was in our establishment four days before his death; but though his
faculties were clear and bright,-as they remained to the last,-it was evident that the
tie which kept him in the body was very weak. The immediate cause of death was
congestion of the lungs, the system being too weak to throw off the congestive
fluid. In accordance with the known wishes of the departed, the funeral was
exempt from any of the ordinary insignia of mourning.
We annex a brief account of the proceedings:-
The funeral was appointed to leave Victoria Parade at half past two on
Saturday, June 26th, and shortly before that time about fifty friends of the
deceased arrived, and took a last view of the body, which preserved the same
calm, placid expression it had in life. No signs of discolouration or decomposition
were visible, and no odour save that of the beautiful flowers which filled the
interstices of the coffin. At half-past two the coffin was closed, and the procession,
which consisted of a hearse and four mourning coaches, accompanied by a number
of private vehicles and cabs, proceeded to the cemetery. No plumes, hatbands or
gloves were to be seen, but a little sprig of rosemary (indicative of remembrance),
fastened with a yellow ribbon (symbolical of spirituality and wisdom), was worn
286
upon the left breast, and many had small bouquets in their button-holes. Arrived at
the cemetery, the procession was joined by about fifty more friends, including the
choir of the Victorian Association of Progressive Spiritualists, who on the coffin
being deposited in the grave, sang the following beautiful hymn of Longfellow's: -
“Take them, O Death! and bear away
Whatever thou canst call thy own!
Thine image, stamped upon this clay,
Doth give thee that, but that alone!
Take them, 0 Grave! and let them lie
Folded upon thy narrow shelves,
As garments by the soul laid by
And precious only to ourselves.
Take them, 0 great Eternity!
Our little life is but a gust,
That bends the branches of the tree
And trails its blossoms in the dust!”
Mr. Ross spoke of Mr. Nayler as a man of very remarkable character. He left
this world in his eightieth year, and according to usual notions he might be
considered as a relic of the past, to which all his sympathies might be supposed to
be confined. Not so with Mr. Naylor. Never behind the age, but generally in
advance, he was ever the champion of reform, and everything human had his
warmest sympathies. A friend of old and young, ever ready to form new
associations with the freshness of a youthful mind. Those who knew him through
his vigorous and uncompromising writings only, might form a harsh opinion of his
character; but those who have had the great privilege of knowing him in the
privacy of his own home, proved his to be a heart overflowing with the genuine
“milk of human kindness.”
Mr. Nayler was married to a talented lady not less remarkable than himself.
They celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of their wedding day last year, at Stawell,
and soon after, on the 28th July, after much trouble and sorrow, Mrs. Naylor
departed to a “better world.” As soon as convenient thereafter Mr. Nayler came to
Melbourne, where he was received with warm affection and solicitous regard.
Before his arrival an arrangement was come to whereby his future wants and
comforts were to be attended to, without compromising his independence, which
he was jealous in preserving Although no blood relations then surrounded his
grave which received his mortal remains, few indeed have departed this life
leaving behind them such a sense of bereavement and regret for lost opportunities,
as were experienced by many who had the pleasure and profit of Mr. Nayler's
intimate acquaintance.
The choir sung Byron's fine hymn “Immortality,” at the conclusion of which
they and others threw their floral offerings into the grave till the coffin was almost
hidden with flowers. This concluded the proceedings, and the friends dispersed to
their several homes.-Harbinger of Light, Melbourne.
___________________________
287
[Note from PsyPioneer: - Emma Hardinge Britten’s summing up of 1888
(printed below) is taken from ‘The Two Worlds’ December 28th
page 78. It is
interesting to note that she includes some of her principles in the summing up
which were later to form part the principles of the S.N.U. This was an important
year in the foundations of the organization of Spiritualists which she supported.
In October of this year two of the Fox sisters, led by Margaret Fox-Kane made
their denunciation of Spiritualism. Emma Hardinge Britten, Stainton Moses
reacted harshly against them in numerous statements whereas James Burns was
more sympathetic.
This year saw the deaths of Dr. Anna Kingsford7
, Edmund Gurney and Mrs.
Mary Howitt. Noteworthy publications were ‘The Life of D.D. Home’; Mr. C.C.
Massey’s translation of Du Prel’s ‘Philosophy of Mysticism’ and as Stainton
Moses remarked: - ‘that phenomenal work of Madam Blavatsky’s, ‘The Secret
Doctrine’.]
1888-1889!!!
ANNIVERSARIES, fete days, birth-days, and every description of memorial day, are
milestones on the highway of progress, which call upon the traveller in mute but
eloquent language to pause-hold in remembrance the way-marks he has left behind
him, and by the experience he has gained in the path he has trodden, to take count of
the possibilities that open up before him for the future. And if this be true of the
individual, how much more so of the whole human family, when it combines as with
one accord to celebrate a death and birth in which the planets of the solar system are
the actors, and the mighty sun and the grand old earth are the parents of the new-born!
Thus it is, that the hour which sounds out the requiem of the dying year of 1888
will ring in the birth of 1889, with all its freight of weal or woe, joy or sorrow, to
every creature that now draws the breath of life upon the face of the earth. Whilst we
know that the milestones of time that have been passed since the last annual
anniversary, must have been fraught with events of the deepest moment to every
individual of the race, there are collective interests that equally call for notice, and one
of these is represented by the title inscribed on this little journal, The Two Worlds.
What has the year 1888 brought for those who live in the light and communion of
the seen and the unseen; the world of probation and that of results; of matter and
spirit; of promise and irrevocable fulfilment?
As far as this world of effort is concerned much has been accomplished that should
cheer and encourage the labourers. This paper was established little more than a year
ago, with none of those financial supports that are supposed to be absolutely essential
to bridge over the road of trial from endeavour to success. There are spiritualists and
spiritualists. Some whose only aim is personal satisfaction, comfort, and amusement
7
See ‘Books for Sale’ in this issue.
288
to be derived from the phenomena. Others whose chief purpose it is to prop up the
unmistakeable decadence of those systems of ecclesiasticism, falsely called Christian,
by attempting to patch the old garments of theology with the new cloth of spiritual
gifts-in a word, to label spiritualism with the name of Christianity.
Besides these, we have had to contend with the seekers for the simply wild,
wonderful, and incomprehensible. Restless minds, who strive to force their unproved
theories and fantastic vagaries upon spiritualism under the names of occultism and
theosophy.
Next we have entered into the lists against the remorseless and conscienceless
“scribes and pharisees-hypocrites,” who-under the pretext that spiritual gifts are the
only form of God's gifts to man too sacred to be made the means of earning an honest
livelihood-insult and revile all who interfere with their schemes or thwart their selfish
designs.
It is not that any looker-on can mistake the animus of those that will slavishly beg
and hypocritically take presents, but refuse honest pay for honest labour. Forgetting
the eternal law, that “every idle word shall be brought into judgment,” these cruel foes
of our own household have recklessly vilified our disinterested efforts, and brought
disgrace on their own cause and ours, by presenting to the common enemy the
spectacle of “a house divided against itself,” and the literature that should have been
devoted to writing the Bible of the future has been made the vent for envy, hatred,
malice, and all uncharitableness.
To all and each of these classes this little journal's course has been - to let them
SEVERELY ALONE.
Perhaps our hearts have been stirred, and feelings wounded. The certainty that
there is a world where every wrong will be righted, and compensation and retribution
meted out with unerring precision, has been the chief impulse which has stayed the
swift act, tongue, or pen of earthly vengeance, and deferred this merited retribution to
the ALL-SEEING tribunal of spiritual judgment.
And so, the promoters of this paper have gone on their way, achieving a success
beyond their expectations, and entering upon another decade of time when they
scarcely expected to reach the conclusion of the dying year. Trusting in God, the
angels, and a righteous cause, they have borne the revilings of disappointed envy in
silence, giving prizes for excellence, bringing tidings of spiritual progress from all
quarters of the globe, and devoting their columns solely to the exposition of what true
spiritualism is, not what it only pretends to be. Our fair, clean columns have never
been opened to vain controversies, idle disputations, or more theories. We have
fearlessly rebuked injustice, shams, and perversions of real religion; pleaded for the
poor and downtrodden, but never suffered the hobbies of wild theorists or vain
imaginings to be harnessed to the grand car of spiritualism.
The wealth, which to a great extent forms the sinews of literary success, has been
wanting in our undertaking, hence the time may come when we shall have no more to
pay with, and then-we shall neither beg, bully, nor abuse others more successful than
ourselves-but simply stop. In the meantime, we shall not abandon the principles with
289
which we started, and those are all comprised in the grand proposition that this world
is a probationary scene to prepare mortals for the world of compensation and
retribution hereafter, and the ascending worlds of progress in eternity. If we find any
libellous statements vented against individuals, or our community at large, we are
prepared to appeal to the law to stop the same.
If malice and envy vents its spleen against us in printed form, we shall not disgust
or worry the public by making our columns the scene of controversy with such
unworthiness, but we shall do our utmost to present something better. The friend of all
true spiritualists, the determined foe of shams and pretences, this paper will go on as
long it can help spiritualism forward, and decently pay its way.
We may not pretend even to present a retrospect of the past eventful year without
once more alluding to the unhappy pit of evil into which the two first well-known
mediums of the spiritual cause have fallen, and into which, with the insanity of vice,
they hoped to have dragged their cause. We allude, of course, to the unfortunate Fox
sisters. We have already in three previous numbers shown first - that their pretended
confession is the worst fraud of their lives, and that the only question to be
addressed to them now is, “Which was your greatest lie? that, which for forty
years, you uttered when you claimed that your manifestations were all the work
of spirits, or, that which you now say when you declare them to have been the
work of fraud?” To judge these hapless women truly, we must remind our
readers that they are besotted drunkards, hence insane, and unworthy of credit;
Roman Catholics by profession8
, hence taught by profession, to “lie for the
honour and glory of their church,” the worst enemy of which is
SPIRITUALISM. As far as the cause of spiritualism is now, or has been,
connected with these women, it is enough to say there have been and are, at
least, a hundred thousand better and more forcible spirit mediums in the world
than them; the cause can therefore well afford to let them go.
Yet again, in order to shake our skirts free from that which will never cease
to entail disgrace upon our noble cause, we earnestly call upon all spiritualists
to forget these women's relations to it, and, as the first step to this act of
repudiation, let us have no more celebrations of the thirty-first of March.
Spiritualism is God's and angels' work, not man's, much less the work of two
besotted priest-ridden women. Anniversaries are good and useful milestones on
the road of progress; eloquent voices calling upon us to pause, think, and take
stock of the past, so that in the future we may be wiser and stronger from
contemplating our failures or successes. It is in this sense that we would ask for
the annual observance of a SPIRITUAL ANNIVERSARY, but instead of dating
from the action of any weak and fallible mortals, let us refer it solely for God's
8
This is partly incorrect as only Maggie was involved at this point in Catholicism. Taken from
‘Talking to the Dead’ by Barbara Weisberg page 256: - Asked whether her motive for recanting was to
take revenge on those who had promised her a profit for exposing Spiritualism, Maggie insisted that
she only wanted to set the record straight. She vaguely attributed part of the blame for the original
expose to powerful Catholics who had pressured her into rejecting Spiritualism. It’s likely that, since
she claimed to have converted to Catholicism, the church indeed frowned on her continued practice of
holding seances. Talking to the dead in the Catholic Church was considered a matter more suited to
exorcism than to celebration.
Use the new search engine for Barbara Weisberg: - http://www.woodlandway.org/
290
providence in nature, and hold it EVERY NEW YEAR'S DAY. Then will we
have sun, moon, and stars, the glorious solar system, and ten thousand, perhaps
millions, of other systems in harmony with us. We shall bid a loving and
grateful farewell to the dead year, a hopeful and aspiring greeting to the new.
How thoroughly such thoughts, stirred by such a death and re-birth, are
in harmony with a dying theology, and a young, new, but imperishable religion,
built upon principles of love, right, and reason, we leave thinking spiritualists
to decide.
Some years ago, when the Editor of this paper was in the habit of lecturing
often at Leeds, she was solicited to take part in a New Year's watch-night. Just
as the year was dying, a vision was presented to her, which she thus narrated to
the assembled audience. The spirit of Charles Dickens appeared, displaying to
the seeress a semblance of old Marley the miser's ghost. This figure wore, as
described in the original story, a long, dragging, doleful chain, composed of
little cash, boxes all linked together. “Behold,” said the spirit of the great
novelist, “I show you from my new spiritual home how the real miser I
idealized, progresses, and how his fetters of cash boxes may be turned into an
immortal crown of glory.” Then the seeress beheld the ghost gathering up his
chain, and throwing away its several cash boxes or links, one after another. At
first he threw one to a lean, hungry-looking wretch, and it turned into a loaf of
bread; he threw another at a ragged Arab selling matches, and it turned into a
warm suit of clothes; still another he threw, to a desolate-looking being
weeping over a new-made grave, and it turned into a wreath of summer
flowers. Thus, one after another, the ghost threw away every cash box but the
last one, and each time they fell, they turned into something good, useful, or
comforting, to some suffering creature. The ghost was about to cast the last one
at the head of a wretched miser such as he himself had been, when lo! it slipped
from his hands and shot up into a glorious, radiant crown of immortal glory,
and settled on the head of the generous and beneficent being who had given his
all for the benefit of others.
Glorious, wonderful transformation! The chain was not lost, but changed
into countless blessings. Its last link freed the prisoner from the miser's fetters,
and crowned him with the symbol of heavenly glory!-So the vision ended.
May each returning New Year’s watch-night be a record of the many little
cash boxes we have thrown to the poor, the comfortless, and those worse off
than ourselves, until every link in the chain of selfishness is broken! May each
joy-bell that rings in the birth of another milestone on the highway of eternal
progress be also a voice to remind us of the glorious outpouring of the spirit
upon all flesh! And this is the final prayer for-and greeting to-every reader, by
their friend, THE EDITOR of “THE TWO WORLDS.”
………………………Happy 2008 from all at Psypioneer………………………
291
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
‘Red Cactus: - The Life of Anna Kingsford’ By Alan Pert @ £14.95 + pp ISBN: - 978-
1-74018-405-2 See. Psypioneer 3.5 issue: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.5May07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860.
£14.95 + pp. ISBN: - 978-0-9556539-0-2. See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of
Modern Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis Published May 2000 by Psychic
Pioneer Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 Inc postage (please add 10%
for airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his
death’ Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is
a small booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc postage (please add 10% for airmail).
Both Psychic Pioneer Publications £4.00 Inc postage (please add 10% for airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on the
web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian
friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free and direct by
sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to
discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
292
