{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v4_n5_may_2008.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V4 N5 May 2008","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 4, No 5; May 2008
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
Silver Belle Doubts – Leslie Price 101
Theosophists go to the polls – Leslie Price 102
Now we are Four – Leslie Price 103
Fraud uncovered at Chesterfield Spiritualist Camp – Psychic Observer 105
Further notes on historic ideas of human radiations – Carlos Alvarado 119
Horace Leaf – Paul J. Gaunt 127
Experiences of an old Australian Spiritualist – Horace Leaf 128
Books for sale 130
How to obtain this Newsletter by email 131
=========================================
SILVER BELLE DOUBTS
_______________
There are doubts about the 1953 Silver Belle series of materialisation photographs,
which show the medium Ethel Post-Parrish, and a materialised Red Indian girl at
Camp Silver Belle, which Ethel founded at Ephrata, Pennsylvania.
An older camp, Chesterfield in Anderson, Indiana, which was for long managed by
Ethel’s cousin, Mabel Riffle, is one reason for this. In 1960, with the prior approval
of all concerned, Tom O’Neill and Dr Andrija Puharich made an infra red film of the
medium Edith Stillwell (with Mabel as cabinet attendant). The resulting articles in
”Psychic Observer”, which are reproduced later in this issue, showed that the
materialised figures all entered through a side door, and had the faces and build of
other mediums at the camp.
In 1976, a once prominent medium at Chesterfield and in Florida, Lamar Keene
published a detailed confession of the methods he used to produce both mental and
physical phenomena. (Both Keene and his former partner have since died.) In his
book “The Psychic Mafia”, the chapter “Secrets of the Séance” explains how the
trumpet and ectoplasmic phenomena were produced by them. Unfortunately this book
is out of print and has become rare.
Among the photos in the book are the Silver Belle sequence from the other camp. The
caption reads “Of course, this is trick photography. One familiar method is to
101
photograph smoke and then, by double exposure, to superimpose on it either a
drawing, or an actual accomplice dressed as a spirit, or a cardboard figure. Needless
to say, the woman to the left in the photograph, the “cabinet keeper,” was an
accomplice in the deception. “
In one recent article about these photos, Zerdin Phenomenal ( issue 18, February 2008
lead story) they are called “some of the clearest and most convincing photographs
ever, of a materialisation taking form.”. The source given for the material is said to be
“various web sites”.
Is it possible that these photos are like the Cottingley fairy photos which for long
exercised a baleful influence over the study of fairy lore in our own country? The time
is long overdue for a thorough study of the Silver Belle case. Meanwhile, perhaps
caution would be advisable?
LP.
_________________________________________
THEOSOPHISTS GO TO THE POLLS
A presidential election in the Adyar-based Theosophical Society may have
implications for the study of psychic pioneers.
The first president of the Theosophical Society, Henry Olcott (who served from 1875
to 1907) was an outstanding pioneer in cross cultural psychical research. Since then,
the archives of the Society have accumulated many papers concerning such leading
figures as Stainton Moses. Much archival material was published in “The
Theosophist” and in the multi-volume Collected Writings of Madame Blavatsky.
Some is currently appearing in her Collected Letters, of which the second volume
from 1879 onwards is in preparation.
Mrs Radha Burnier of India has been president since 1980. She is being challenged by
Professor John Algeo of the United States, who is the vice-president and editor of the
Blavatsky Letters. Because of his substantial track record in historical research, he
may be more sympathetic to promoting the study of historical matters in “The
Theosophist” and elsewhere.
More background on the election can be found in a newsletter edited by Katinka
Hesselink1
.
LP.
1
http://lucifer7.katinkahesselink.net/i/2008/5.html
102
Notes by the Way
NOW WE ARE FOUR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~
It’s now four years since Psypioneer appeared as a monthly free electronic newsletter.
Just the other day, an American author wrote to express appreciation for the
fascinating material in a wonderful resource. We know from their comments that
others of the 250 subscribers also feel we are meeting the need for historical material
on psychic pioneers, with no particular perspective on the phenomena. We welcome
suggestions for areas we need to cover, but have not yet got around to featuring; there
are certainly a number of these, such as Kardecism.
Lots of people help keep us on the road - the original grant givers ( STF, CPS and
certain private donors) the editors of old journals (some still in copyright); librarians,
contributors of papers, our proof reader, the web master at Woodland Way, our long
suffering spouses….to mention just a few.
There are many rich seams of material that are difficult of access. (This phrase was
used by Myers as long ago as SPR Proc. 1893 p.245 when he was writing a paper on
Stainton Moses. The journal “Human Nature” was, he noted, difficult of access!)
The trustees of the College of Psychic Studies are still not allowing any CPS member,
even book reviewers for LIGHT, access to their set of LIGHT, the oldest psychic
journal in continuous publication. (See Psypioneer December 20072
“A future for
psychic studies”). Sets of Two Worlds, founded in 1887, and Psychic News, are also
scarce. Several other journals appear to be only in the British Library.
Our republication this month of two 1960 articles from Psychic Observer was
somewhat complicated. There may well be sets of the Psychic Observer in some
American libraries, but the only copies known to us were those of our contributor
Canon William Rauscher, whose valuable articles on Eileen Garrett3
and Muriel
Hankey4
will be recalled...
Bill kindly airmailed his irreplaceable copies to Paul Gaunt. The articles were
accompanied in the text by images from the original microfilm. Coloured photocopies
of the articles were made by a specialist printer here, and these were used to scan the
text while the originals were promptly returned to the States. The colour presented
some difficulty, and made necessary hours of extra work in scanning. (We hope it
may be possible for some or all of the actual images to be reproduced in another UK
publication before long; for electronic space reasons we generally avoid images in
Psypioneer.).
2
Page 265: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.12December07..pdf
3
Remembering Eileen J. Garrett: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP10.pdf
4
Thoughts of Muriel Hankey: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP11.pdf
103
It may be worth commenting on the general question of fraud, real or alleged. Some
readers may feel that this is not a proper subject, and best omitted from studies of the
pioneers. But the pioneers themselves lived with the fraud problem every day. D.D.
Home was so concerned he devoted much of his book “Lights and Shadows” to
exposing it. William Crookes privately got one lady offender to retire from the field,
at least temporarily. Maurice Barbanell used publicity to try to rid the Movement of
such mediums - we reprinted in August 20075
one such early case from even before
PN was founded, and others will follow. Our object is to give such allegations no
more and no less than they had in the historical record.
The articles in the Psychic Observer were historically important, as an early use by a
researcher of infra-red. Simeon Edmunds claimed in his book “Spiritualism a critical
survey” (1966)6
There followed a storm of protest from many of his readers, and sales of Psychic
Observer slumped so heavily in consequence that it had to cease publication.
Cancellations of subscriptions came not only from individual readers but from many
churches and societies as well.7
More information about the impact of the articles can be found at:
http://www.answers.com/topic/psychic-observer-and-chimes
It’s vital however to treat allegations of fraud or exposure with the same caution we
apply to claims generally in the psychic field. To give an example, not a few
psychical researchers would be wary of Harry Price’s claim to have exposed Rudi.
Even mediums may sometimes have their reasons for wanting to discredit another
medium. Were it not for a surviving letter, we might find it hard to believe there was
an alleged plot to throw vitriol in the face of Katie King, inspired by a jealous
medium, Mrs Guppy.
The retired voice medium Leslie Hodges used to enjoy telling the story of his
encounter with Maurice Barbanell. Hodges was a barber in Brighton; some observers
thought that in fact it was his wife who was the power in their home circle (some of
whose seance records were later given to CPS.). Barbie wanted him to turn
professional, but he declined. “I make mediums, and I break them” warned the editor.
“You did not make me, and you will not break me” responded the medium, and
indeed he has continued to be featured in PN retrospectives long after the editor had
gone to meet his guide.
On a happier note, we regularly mention the White Eagle Lodge8
in these pages. For
some months we have been cooperating with the Lodge historian, Colum Hayward,
who has been working on the revised official history of the Lodge. Essentially, we
draw to his attention early mentions we come across of the Lodge founders and
5
Fraudulent Mediumship: An Exposure: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.8August07..pdf
6
Spiritualism: A Critical Survey, by Simeon Edmonds. With a Forward by Sir George Joy then
Honorary Secretary S.P.R. Published by Aquarian Press November 1966.
7
Pages 136 – 137.
8
www.whiteagle.org
104
origins, and he in turn elucidates these for us, explaining why for example, Ivan
Cooke on occasion writes of Australia (he lived there for some years). We commend
this kind of cooperation to other readers and their organisations. The source material
on the psychic pioneers is so scattered globally that we do need to work together to
get the full picture.
LP.
_________________________________________
FROM THE COLLECTION – LIBRARY of WILLIAM V.
RAUSCHER
_______________
Below is taken from PSYCHIC OBSERVER July 10th
1960
WE ARE IN MOURNING
Truth for Authority not Authority for Truth
The tragic Deception in Materialization, or
Why Spare the Angels?
Turn to Page 2 for this fantastic story
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FRAUD UNCOVERED AT CHESTERFIELD
SPIRITUALIST CAMP
INFRA-RED MOTION PICTURES REVEAL THIS GREAT
DECEPTION
Shocking-Amazing-But True!
By The Editor
Copyright Psychic Observer 1960
This is the story of an adventure-on adventure with a purpose. The purpose of this
adventure was to record for all time, the truth of a very special type of science in the
field of Spiritualism: MATERIALIZATION!
105
While it is a well known fact that materialization is a matter of record in the
files of many Psychic Researchers, and we too, have files of photographs to prove
it, this "adventure with a purpose" started out NOT TO RESEARCH- NOT TO
INVESTIGATE- but to RECORD ONLY with the most modern technique of the
day; the motion picture camera, infra-red lighting and infra-red film. Used in
conjunction with this most modern approach was the OBSERVER SCOPE
commonly called "SNOOPER-SCOPE" by the armed forces. This instrument
was used to clearly observe the enemy regardless of darkness at a distance of a
thousand feet. When this instrument was placed on the rifle barrel, a good
marksman could hit the enemy squarely between the eyes in the dead of night!
This then was our approach, with permission granted from all parties concerned,
to the putting on record, the great truth of MATERIALIZATION.
Psychic Observer secured the services of a man whose stamp of approval on the
project would demand a closer look from those who heretofore have openly sneered at
the possibilities of this great science. This man, Dr. Andrija Puharich, whom I was
lucky enough to catch in between trips in his search for the "sacred Mushroom"
gladly consented to accompany me on what he considered "one of the greatest
adventures of his life."
Dr. Puharich secured all the necessary equipment: cameras, film, lights and
two "Snooper-scopes," and arrived, after a rough weekend (which is a story in
itself) at the Indianapolis Airport, Indianapolis, Indiana, Sunday, May 29, 1960.
We were accorded a royal welcome at Camp Chesterfield, and the word soon got
around that we were there to record, for the first time in the history of American
Spiritualism, motion pictures of materialization.
The medium was Edith Stillwell the cabinet attendant, Mable Riffle. (The
duties of a cabinet attendant are to see that the seance runs smoothly and to help,
with her presence, some of the more shaky sitters.)
Our first three seances were conducted with Edith Stillwell sitting outside the
cabinet in the chair normally occupied by the cabinet attendant, and Mable Riffle,
who was to act as cabinet attendant, sat back with us in the chairs for the sitters. This
in itself, Edith Stillwell sitting outside of the cabinet for the materialization, indicated
a source of tremendous power, and because of this, Dr. Puharich and myself had
visions of a tremendous scoop for the Psychic World at large.
Our first sitting (Monday) was a sort of "get acquainted time" because we had not
as yet set up all of our equipment. (Tuesday was the day we had planned to start
rolling.) We went through the standard procedure; said the Lord's Prayer, and sang
(creaked and cracked are better words,) our way through one of the usual hymns.
Halfway through (thank goodness) the second chorus, the "phenomena" started. A
gentleman appeared and announced himself as Brother Ben; he was replete with
brilliant headgear that seemed to flow down as far as his waist. He philosophied a bit,
then turned to the cabinet to personally bring out another "spirit" with the statement
that it was her first try at this sort of thing and he wanted to be of help in the situation.
This creature was gorgeously arrayed in pink "ectoplasm" and called herself "Sister
Mary." Both "spirits" were on the floor at the same time, which gave us a look at
106
everyone in the room; Brother Ben, Sister Mary, Edith Stillwell and Mable Riffle.
This was great! What camera shots we could take! What proof we could give to the
world! Finally, it was announced that the power had run out and that the seance would
have to come to an end. In due time the white lights were turned on and we sat back
congratulating each other on the wonder of it all!
Frankly, there wasn't much sleep for either of us that night. Puharich and I sat on
the front porch of the Western Hotel until 2 a.m. planning our camera layout, and
when we finally did hit the sack, sleep for me was mighty hard to come by.
Little did I know of the great shock that was in store for me!
Morning finally arrived, and after a good breakfast, with more planning of camera
angles, we went over to Edith Stillwell's seance room and assembled our equipment
which we had unloaded there the day before.
I could go into a long and detailed description of the time we had getting our
lighting up to par in order to record perfectly, all that transpired in the seance room,
and actually, we did not start shooting perfect film until Wednesday, June 1st. We
discovered that we needed more infrared lighting for crystal clear pictures, and after a
BIG search in Indianapolis, we were lucky enough to come up with two 250 watt
infra-red lights. This gave its altogether, 1000 watts of pure infra-red lighting, which
incidentally, does not throw out as much light as the standard 15, watt red lights
normally used in a materialization seance room. But let us for the moment return to
Monday night's seance. While it is true that we did not record anything on film that
night, t h e "Snooper - scope" worked like a "Snooper-scope" should, and Andrija,
(Dr. Puharich) saw perfectly everything that transpired in the room. Later, he told me
what he saw, and frankly I didn't believe: "that the spirits were entering the seance
room from a door just adjacent to the cabinet!"
I was profoundly shocked! Edith Stillwell, whom I had always praised to the skies
as one of the top mediums in the Spiritualist movement, just couldn't- wouldn't - fake
a seance! I said: "Andrija, these people know what we are doing; they have even
looked through the "snooper-scope" themselves; they know its powers of observation,
and besides, why should they take such terrible chances with the Editor of Psychic
Observer, and a scientist of your reknown, [sic-PP] recording for posterity, every
movement that transpires in the room!" The discussion grew hotter and heavier; not
from Anrija’s side, but from my side. I could not, no matter how much I badgered
him, get him to admit that he had made even the slightest error of observation through
the "snooper-scope!"
Tuesday night's seance, however, was the clincher! This clincher did not come
to light though, until the following day, Wednesday, June 1, 1960.
We had been quite fortunate in discovering that Indianapolis was the only city in a
radius of a 1000 miles that could boast, as one of its enterprises, a firm called
FILMCRAFT LABORATORIES. These people process every and all types of film,
and processing infra-red film, which had been one of our greatest concerns, was
second nature to them. Hence, all we had to do was take the film we had shot the
night before down to Filmcraft; it was processed on the spot, and we viewed our
107
efforts in their projection room the same day. That is why I say "Wednesday was the
clincher." this was the day when we were viewing Tuesday night's film. I could
hardly believe my eyes! Andrija was right! The "spirits" were coming front a door
adjacent to the cabinet; 'entering the cabinet through its loose side-curtain, and
walking through the front opening of the cabinet to be photographed by us. Little did
they know that we were photographing the whole bit!
After viewing this ridiculous fakery, my apologies to Andrija for doubting his
"snooper-scope" observations, were not very good, due to my feelings of guilt for my
erstwhile good friends, Edith Stillwell and Mable Riffle. Even now, writing this story
just about tears my heart right out of its socket, but this is a story that must be written,
and the film must be publicized! Being Editor of the Psychic Observer, one of the
foremost psychic publications in the world, carries its burden in presenting psychic
truths to the world at large. The masthead clearly states: "TRUTH FOR
AUTHORITY, NOT AUTHORITY FOR TRUTH" hence, there is no place else to
turn.
On Wednesday, June 1st, 1960, we were recording movies that were of excellent
quality. The seance did not last long, but we got about 30 feet of fabulous pictures.
It might be wise to inject here, that at no time did we discuss our findings with
Edith Stillwell, Mable Riffle, or for that matter, anyone else in or around Camp
Chesterfield. We kept the whole thing to ourselves, and while Filmcraft
Laboratories knew we were attempting to take motion pictures of the spirit, I do
not believe that they were aware of just what action WAS taking place.
Thursday, June 2, on our regular 8:30 schedule, we sat again. This time Edith
Stillwell sat inside the cabinet; (as I have already mentioned, Edith sat for the first
three nights outside of the cabinet where she could also, out of trance, witness some
of her own "phenomena.") However, absolutely nothing occurred. Neither "actors"
nor "spirits" showed up. This may be due to the fact that before the "seance" I had
asked Edith if she minded my putting two chairs in front of the curtain that covers the
door: (where the "spirits" had been entering from). I had mentioned that it would look
better in our recorded seance if this curtain, which swung back and forth on a single
arm, wasn't standing straight out, making it look on film, like a curtained hallway
from the door of her living quarters to the cabinet. She agreed to the arrangement, but
all we drew was a blank!
Edith said that she would try again on the following night which was June 3rd.
Andrija and I discussed the point, that perhaps they, Edith and Mable, were
onto the fact that we were recording more than they thought we should, but
apparently not, for the following night, they even had another medium, Gladys
Strohm, to help in the sitting. Mable Riffle said that it would help give more
power to Edith.
Andrija and I were filled with misgivings. We still had high hopes that we could
photograph the real thing; we had also discussed the fact that if this night was a dry
run, we would just pack up our equipment, and head for home. While we had photo-
graphed enough, evidence of fraud to upset the whole field of spiritualism for many
108
years to come, we had the thought that, in front of another medium, trickery would not
be resorted to.
The seance started as usual; prayer, a few hymns, and while we again bogged
down on how the tunes should go, our feelings were good and our thoughts ran high.
The "phenomena" started before we stopped singing, and the motion pictured
results of some of the proceedings that took place in the next hour, will go down in
history as the greatest recordings of fraud in the history of the movement of
Spiritualism!
The whole sordid mess is one of the bitterest pills that I have ever had to swallow,
and my heart will bleed for a long long time for those poor misguided people, Edith
Stillwell and Mable Riffle.
It is true, of course, that all mediums are not frauds; there are some very fine
ones, and no doubt there are some very fine ones at the Chesterfield Spiritualist
Camp, but I for one, will never go there again to seek them out; that is, unless -
Mable Riffle is no longer in charge of the Camp, and a great sweeping has taken
place!
[EDITOR'S NOTE: The ‘'spirit"
pictures that follow this story are
reproduced from our l6mm infra-
red motion picture film, blown up
approximately 25 times the original
size. This should indicate how
crystal clear the motion pictures
themselves are.]
[Series One and Four discussed later with second article- Ed. PP.]
SERIES TWO
This shows the “Draper Spirit” going through his paces. His movement depicted
a ballet dancer and he tossed his shining “ectoplasmic” clothes to and fro.
NOTE: Shown also from the files of the Psychic Observer is this picture of
Homer Watkins, the well-dressed man with flower in his button hole, who bears
a remarkable resemblance to the “spirit” of “John William Draper”.
SERIES THREE
This shows the “spirit” of “Sister Agnes” who claims that she is the one who
meets accident victims as they make the change called death.
NOTE: shown also from our files is this picture (with glasses) of Penny Umbach,
who looks enough like “Sister Agnes” to be her twin.
109
Continued on page four-PSYCHIC OBSERVER July 10th
1960: -
From The Editor’s Desk
BY TOM O'NEIL
Are We What The Scoffers Say We Are?
Let's suppose together for a few paragraphs-
Suppose you were an individual in the foreranks of the movement called
Spiritualism. Occupying such a spot, you accepted your position with a grave sense of
responsibility, and believing in the truths Spiritualism has to offer, you are anxious to
share these with the world.
Suppose a little further - you ponder about how these truths can be most effectively
and convincingly presented to the public who is either ignorant of or scornful of them.
You need proof, hard, cold, tangible facts - something to sink your teeth into!
Suppose after you think, pray and meditate, you decide to take a long chance- a
real long chance. BUT, if successful, you will have that hard, cold, tangible proof.
What did you decide? A motion picture, via infra-red photography, of a
materialization and trumpet seance! Incredible, you think - maybe even
impossible. BUT (the little word) if successful, what a tremendous impact! Those
who come to scoff at such a film will stay to marvel, learn and maybe, even
believe.
Suppose you go ahead with this revolutionary idea. You purchase the expensive
film ... you engage reputable, scientific researchers, as anxious as you to prove
personal survival, to participate in the seance . . . you obtain the services of mediums
who are "giants" in the field of physical phenomena . . . you go to work!
The mediums fully comprehend that the seance is a scientific experiment with
an ultimate aim of securing indisputable proof of personal survival after the
change called death for a skeptical world.
The seance is about ready to begin . . . cameras are loaded . . . one scientist stands
by with a snooperscope . . . the medium is in the cabinet . . . the cabinet tender sits
nearby . . . the air around you is vibrant with a sense of expectancy and hope ... the
seance begins.
The medium is entranced. Spirits materialize, walk around the room,
approach you, speak to and with you. All the time the cameras are grinding and
the snooperscope is scanning every inch of the room.
And then it is all over. Specially trained technicians develop your precious infra-
red film ... you are enthusiastic to the point of bursting with pride. You are going to
do what Lodge, Schrenck-Notzing, Flammarion, Crookes attempted to do. But these
110
men didn't have the tools that you now have - who ever heard of infra-red film back in
those days.
No, you and you alone are going to have that proof so desperately needed for
so long.
The processed film is returned. You load the filmholder . . . the projector starts to
grind.
As it grinds on, you sink lower and lower into your chair . . . you cannot believe
your eyes! It can't be, you say to yourself. It can't be!
But it is! Cameras don't lie! There aren't any materialized spirits! ... only
actors ... people popping in and out of partially concealed doors ... all quick-
change artists waving cotton gauze 'ectoplasm.'
Suppose all this happened to you. What would you do? Destroy the film . . . sell
it to the powerful anti-Spiritualist press who would have a field-day with it ... print it
in the Spiritualist press ... lose all faith in the philosophy that has previously brought
you knowledge and proof of survival and peace within . . . button your lip up forever
because you cannot bring yourself to destroy the faith of thousands who have been
helped both physically and spiritual by Spiritualism and demonstrations of physical
phenomena even by fake mediums…
Just suppose all this happened to you. What would you do?
You tell us… are we what the scoffers say we are?
______________________________
A Thumbnail Sketch of
Dr. Andrija Puharich
Many of Psychic Observer readers may not know of Dr. Puharich or his many
activities. Here is a short biographical sketch.
Dr. Andrija Puharich is an American of Yugoslav descent. He took his medical
degree at Northwestern University, specializing in physiology and internal medicine.
In 1947 Dr. Puharich began to investigate extrasensory perception (ESP). The
following year he founded a research laboratory in Glen Cove. Maine, and designed
and built a special Faraday Cage-a copper-sheathed, double box which enabled him to
isolate a "sensitive" within an electrical field and determine that electricity was a
significant aid in the study of ESP. He was able to carry on his own experiments with
the sacred mushroom after he discovered the AMANITA MUSCARIA growing in the
woods a half mile from his laboratory. Dr. Puharich now lives in New York and is
continuing his research on the psychical effects and metaphysical history of THE
SACRED MUSHROOM.
________________
111
The story continues: -
PSYCHIC OBSERVER
No 522 SOUTHERN PINES, N.C., AUGUST 10, 1960 25 Cents a Copy
____________________________________
Dr. Andrija Puharich Reports On The Frauds, Fakes
And Fantasies Of The Chesterfield Spiritualist Camp!
A Psychic Circus Without Equal This Camp In Indiana Presents The
Greatest Show - On Earth?
Special To The Psychic Observer
By ANDRIJA PUHARICH
Copyright Psychic Observer 1960
Chesterfield, Indiana is a town of some one thousand souls firmly rooted in the
agricultural prosperity of the mid western prairies. But it is not corn, hay or hogs that
distinguishes Chesterfield from a hundred other towns like it; it is the Chesterfield
Spiritualist Camp, "The Hub of World Spiritualism," that elevates it to Olympian
heights.
The Chesterfield Spiritualist Camp was a Mecca last year for 52,000 pilgrims who
came to see "the phenomena" that proves man's survival is still in operation, and
Chesterfield's mission is to present the true understanding of man's survival of death.
In 1959 the pilgrims showed their appreciation of this re-affirmation of their beliefs
by spending almost a half million dollars - or so I was told - at Chesterfield Camp.
What is it that attracts them, to the Chesterfield Spiritualist Camp? The camp
maintains a staff of two dozen or more mediums who perform healing, produce spirit
photographs on silk, spirit pictures and spirit card writing, materialize the spirits, and
bring the living into communication with the dead. Remarkably enough one can make
an appointment with a medium for 8 p.m. and at 8:30 pm. find oneself talking to the
spirit of the departed beloved.
It is such efficient and punctual communication with the dead that has established the
reputation and the prosperity of this camp.
This communications empire is presided over by a fast moving, sharp-witted
grandmother of 83 who whizzes around the camp on her motor scooter which has
been dubbed “The Sputnik.”. For Mable Riffle there is no detail too small to look into
personally and no problem too large for her to handle. She handles the cash, keeps the
112
books, and hires and fires the “mediums.” She supervises the construction of new
buildings, and keeps architect, builder, and foreman on their toes. She can be seen
whizzing around the corners on “two wheels” from sun-up to sundown spotting
trouble wherever it arises, and barking out orders with the gusto of a drill sergeant.
Yet she has time to drop in on her son, and her grandchildren, and keep track of their
smallest needs and their largest problems. Mable's memory is encyclopedic for names,
faces, and details. Mable not only manages the Camp efficiently, but she has the
surplus time in which to give performances as a trumpet medium to many persons a
day. One cannot help but be awed by such prodigious industry, efficiency and energy.
One of Mable Riffle's leading stars is a materializing medium, Edith Stillwell,
age “65,” who for thirty years has brought comfort to untold thousands by bringing
them into face to face contact with the spirits of their deceased loved ones and friends.
It was to record the work of Edith Stillwell that Tom O'Neil and I journeyed to
Chesterfield on the 29th of May 1960. O'Neil is the publisher of the "Psychic
Observer."
Tom had known Edith for a number of years, and had sat at many of her seances.
He had witnessed the appearance of many spirits, and had even been allowed to take
infra-red flash photographs of such materialized spirits. Because Tom had so much
confidence in the mediumship of Edith Stillwell, and because Edith responded to this
genuine admiration, it was not difficult for Tom to get permission to make motion
pictures of a series of seances. Since mediums always prefer to work in the darkness
(relieved only by a dim dark-room red light) Tom had some special problems to over-
come in order to take motion pictures under these conditions. That is why he called
me in as a professional parapsychologist, as one who knew how to deal with
mediums, and who could set up an infra-red monitoring system and take motion
pictures in the dark.
Tom and I had our first seance together with Mable Riffle and Edith Stillwell at
8:00 p.m. on the 30th of May. Since I had only arrived the day before by airplane
from California, I had not got my infra-red motion picture equipment in perfect
working order, and was not ready to take pictures. However, I was able to use my
infra-red visual monitoring system to see what was going on in the dark.
The seance room was 14 feet wide and 21 feet long. At one end was a section
eight feet wide, and, four feet deep surrounded by a black velvet curtain; the so-
called medium's cabinet. There were two doors into the room but no windows.
One door entered from the street, near which I sat, and it was at the far end
from the medium's cabinet. The other door entered from the house of the
medium and was about five feet from the cabinet. Across this door was placed a
flowered curtain hung on a rod that swung out from the wall. The rest of the
room was bare except for some chairs.
The lights were turned off, and the room was faintly illumined by two eight watt
red lights. One's eyes became accustomed to this faint light after about ten minutes so
that one could barely see the other people sitting in the room. As the main lights went
out Edith led the four of us in the Lord's Prayer, and then some church hymns were
sung. It was explained that this was for the purpose of bringing on the spirits.
113
Edith did not sit in the cabinet, but sat in front of the curtained door that entered
her house, and just off to the right of the cabinet as we faced her. I sat at the far end of
the room from the cabinet, Mable was to my left, and Tom was to my right. Keeping
my telescope focussed on the front of the cabinet I did not see anything unusual until
the singing had ended. Then I noticed that above the top of the curtain of the cabinet
there was a luminescent glow. Soon the glow appeared behind the curtain, the curtain
parted and out stepped a shimmering and luminescent figure who spoke in a
masculine voice announcing himself as Brother Benois. Tom immediately recognized
his name as a spirit that had often appeared before. Some pleasantries were exchanged
and Brother Benois retreated behind the curtain. The time was now 8:15 p.m.
Shortly thereafter a female wraith appeared through the curtain introducing herself
as Sister Mary, and she had come to tell me that she was my guardian angel. The
conversation that ensued was trivial and dealt in generalities, and she too disappeared
behind the curtain. A few minutes later these two ghostly figures re-appeared draped
in fine luminescent netting announcing themselves different personalities. Then
Mable announced that this was enough for the evening. In the meantime, I had been
observing the medium, Edith Stillwell. She rocked back and forth in her rocking chair
wide awake and watching the ghostly pageantry. When Mable called a halt to the
production of spirits I noticed that Edith reached around and gathered in the curtains
of the cabinet side nearest her, and with the other hand reached out and gathered in
the swinging curtain of the door behind her. By gathering the two together she made a
curtained passageway between the cabinet and the door entering her home. The top of
this passageway was about five or so feet high. At this point Mable called out for
more singing and a prayer, and as the noise started, I caught a fleeting glimpse of a
head scuttling from the cabinet to the door which entered Edith's living room. I must
say I was startled by this fleeting glimpse, and wasn't entirely sure what it was that I
had seen, But I did know that this was the place to watch when the next seance began.
When the seance was all over, and the lights were on again, I offered to show
Mable Riffle and Edith Stillwell what it was that we intended to do with the
infra-red motion picture cameras, and the infra-red visual system. I explained to
them that with these two pieces of equipment one could see in a dark room as
though it were flooded with daylight, and that the camera would also take
pictures as though it were daylight. I then let them view the room through the
infra-red telescope. I carefully adjusted the focus on the optical system (which
was very critical for sharpness) with my eyes which are 20/20. Then each stepped
up to look at the room. Both said that they could not see anything but a greenish
blur. Since they could not manage the focussing ring properly I did the best I
could to help them get a sharp focus, but try as they could everything they saw
was blurred, and finally they gave up.
The next evening, May 31st, the seance began at 8:30 p.m., because I was late in
getting my infra-red lighting (invisible to the naked eye) established. I never did
succeed during this evening in getting my lights arranged for perfect photography, but
the lighting was more than sufficient for viewing with my infra-red optical system.
Before the lights went out I had my telescope trained on Edith Stillwell who sat in the
same position outside the cabinet as the night before, and on the door behind her. As
the lights went out and the singing started, I noticed that Edith's first move was to
gather up the curtains as she had the night before, and as we were making noise and
114
trying to get eyes adjusted to the dim red light, I clearly saw the figure of an “Indian”
(American) enter the room by the door behind Edith, and pass into the cabinet. While
the sound of the prayer was going on, I clearly saw a female figure enter by the same
door and pass into the cabinet.
In a few moments an Indian “spirit” came out of the cabinet wearing a luminous
feather head-dress, and danced and grunted on the floor, calling himself Big Bear in
broken English. Then he retired into the cabinet. A few minutes later a female figure
swatched in luminous netting appeared out of the cabinet, and introduced herself as
Tom's spirit guide, Nita. Tom had “seen her” before at other seances, though he did
not recognize her as the same figure of yore. She then volunteered to grow smaller
and larger before our eyes. In watching her with the naked eye, I saw that her figure
seemed to go from a height of about five feet to one of about three feet. But in viewing
her with the infra-red visual system, I noticed that she simply bent her knees 'in a
jerky fashion, and stooped lower and lower, and then rose in the same way. While she
was doing this I had a good opportunity to observe her features.
Nita then faded back into the cabinet. A few moments later a female figure
appeared out of the cabinet with a slightly different wardrobe than that worn by Nita,
and now announced herself as Tom's Grandma Vess. However, I could clearly see
that Grandma Vess and Nita were one and the same person. When this figure
disappeared into the cabinet, Mable Riffle announced that the spirits were through for
the evening and we should join in a prayer of thanks for having been privileged to
witness this rare manifestation from the world of spirits. As the prayer started, Edith
again prepared a passageway with the curtains, and I saw the two figures that had
earlier entered by this route, leave the cabinet and the seance room by the same route
and door. When they had passed out of the room, Edith arranged the curtains (in what
she thought was the dark) as they had been before the lights went out.
Edith then announced that her spirit guide, "Wild Rose" wanted to say a few
words. Wild Rose sang out in a shrill falsetto voice with a marked Indiana
twang; similar to Edith's normal speaking voice and inflection. Each time that I
heard Wild Rose's voice, I observed that Edith turned her head away from the
audience, and “threw” her voice toward the back wall. There was no doubt in
my mind that Edith was exercising her own vocal cords in an attempt at rather
poor ventriloquoy. The session ended shortly thereafter.
By the next evening, June 1st, I had the lighting for infra-red motion pictures in
good working order, and was able to supplement my infra-red visual observation with
a perfect camera record. Much the same scene was repeated this evening as in the two
preceding seances. I saw and photographed the entrance of the spirit actors, their
performance in front of the mediums cabinet, and their exit from the room with the
assistance of Edith Stillwell. Again there were two actors taking multiple roles, but
different actors, and different roles from the preceding sessions.
Tom and I were fortunate in being able to find a film processing firm in Indianapolis
(about forty miles away) who were willing to develop infra-red movie film on a rush
basis.
115
However on Wednesday, the morning of June 1st, we drove into Indianapolis and
delivered our May 29th film to the processors. We had a five hour wait for the film to
be developed before we could view it. During this waiting period, I described for the
first time to Tom what it was that I had seen via the infra-red visual system, and what
I had recorded on film. I had waited for three days to break the news to him for a
number of reasons. In the first place, I knew that he was a dedicated spiritualist, and
had complete faith in the honesty and integrity of his two old friends, Mable and
Edith. Because of this I felt that any statements I might make would be looked upon
as heresy until they could be proven by the evidence from the motion pictures.
Secondly, I felt that any statements made by me along these lines to Tom would
arouse strong, emotions which would telegraph our preliminary findings to the
mediums before the photographic evidence was complete. And there is nothing more
distasteful to me than an inconclusive study. I was willing to bide my time until the
evidence was clearly negative, or positive, and would not settle for any indecisive
observations. Considering what a shock, this rigged show could be to Tom, and the
sense of betrayal with which he was faced, I could not help but admire the coolness
with which he viewed my verbal evidence, and the evidence from the films.
In discussing the future approach to Mable and Edith, and the way in which the
observations should be continued we agreed that we would request one additional
change in the control conditions. This was that two chairs be placed in front of the
door by which the actors entered, and exited. When we made this request to Mable
and Edith on the evening of June 2nd, they cheerfully assented. But when the lights
went out, and the singing started, no actors appeared in the room, and after about
twenty minutes, Mable announced that the spirits were not coming tonight because
our faith in them had sagged, and one of our infra-red lights was a wee bit too bright
for the ectoplasm to materialize. Thus no performance was given, and I felt that we
had tipped our hand unnecessarily and alarmed the ladies.
On the evening of June 3rd we again met to attempt to coax the spirits back
into operation. There were present on this evening Mable Riffle, Edith Stillwell,
Gladys Strohm, Tom O'Neil and I. Gladys was one of the mediums at the camp,
and she had been invited to increase the power of the medium, Edith Stillwell, by
helping to produce more ectoplasm. During this séance, Edith Stillwell sat in the
cabinet for the first time with the curtain securely closed around her.
As soon as the lights went out at 8:30 p.m. the praying and singing began. I noticed
with the infra-red visual system that someone was moving around inside the cabinet
and rustling the curtains. This figure moved behind the curtains towards the side
“entrance” door and pushed the curtain of the cabinet out toward the curtain in front
of the door to Edith's living room. At the same time a bulge appeared behind the door
curtain, and this curtain moved out. to join the one from the cabinet. At the same time
something moved the two chairs out of the way thus making a clear passageway be-
tween the door and the cabinet. However, the passageway formation was rather
incomplete so that anyone walking through this area was sure to be seen. In a few
moments, I clearly saw an old gentleman fumbling his way in the dark, and
photographed his cabinetward passage in detail. He was followed by a shorter lady
suitably garbed for her role.
116
Figures 1-2 [these figures are not reproduced in Psypioneer] show the entrance of
one of these actors. As soon as they had entered the cabinet, the curtain was dropped
by the occupant of the cabinet, and the makeshift passageway was eliminated.
Figure No. 1 [photograph]
"Spirit" who later called himself John William Draper, emerging from behind
curtain that covers the door that leads to Edith Stillwell's living quarters.
Figure No. 2 [photograph]
"John William Draper" halfway through his trip from flowered curtains to the
cabinet.
The first figure to step out of the cabinet announced herself as Sister Agnes, Fig. 3.
Sister Agnes was the same face as had appeared in the entrance scene a few moments
earlier. After a few palliative words of sweetness and light she re-entered the cabinet.
Figure No. 3 [photograph]
This shows the "spirit" of "Sister Agnes."
The second figure was that of a man who called himself John William Draper, Fig.
4. He was the same old gentleman who had been fumbling in the curtained passage-
way earlier. In his right hand he held a yard square cloth of transparent weave well
coated with a luminescent material. This he wound around as he discoursed in
pseudo-scientific terms about light and ectoplasm, presumably to give the impression
of ectoplasm swirling around him. He slowly re-entered the cabinet and his hand
remained in the part of the curtain waving the luminescent cloth in farewell.
Figure no. 4 [photograph]
William Draper
Sister Agnes then reappeared, and Tom requested that he be photographed
standing alongside of her. This she granted readily, and I took a few feet of film of
them standing together. As this was being done, Wild Rose announced from within
the cabinet that she wanted to have her medium Edith Stillwell, photographed to show
the ectoplasm streaming from her. Mable then suggested that the cabinet curtain be
parted so that I could get a better movie of this wondrous effect. I requested Mable
Riffle and Gladys Strohm to stand on each side of the curtain so that I could
photograph them while they parted the curtain widely. They promptly got up and
pulled the curtains far apart on each side. In Fig. 6 Gladys holds the curtain on the
right, and in Fig. 8 Mable is on the left. In the cabinet, Fig. 7, the medium is covered
with a luminescent transparent drapery. On each side of her stand Sister Agnes and
John William Draper, waving transparent luminous handkerchiefs and occasionally
placing them to the ears or the nose of the medium the better to help the appearance of
oozing ectoplasm. When the photography of this remarkable scene was done, Mable
and Gladys returned to their chairs; and again Mable told us that the spirits would not
perform any more tonight. Fig. 5 shows John William Draper making his exit from
the cabinet through the door out of the seance room. Fig. 9 shows Edith Stillwell
coming out of the cabinet at the end of the seance.
Figure No. 5 [photograph]
117
"Draper" has finished his "hokus-pocus" bit, and is seen here leaving the
"materialization" cabinet, and is returning from whence he came, behind the flowered
curtain.
Figure No. 9 [photograph]
Edith Stillwell leaving cabinet after the seance.
Wild Rose then spoke up for herself, and curtly announced to Tom and I that
the medium had exhausted herself this week in producing wondrous phenomena.
This was to be the last materialization given for our benefit was Wild Rose’s
command. Frankly Tom and I were relieved that we would not have to sit
through another spirit charade. Tom and I thanked the ladies for their co-
operation, packed our equipment, boarded the waiting private airplane, and
quickly climbed to an 8,000 foot altitude where the air felt cool and clean.
The rest of our movie film was developed in a few days and we reviewed all of our
sequences.
It was apparent that if we had observed human actors, and since we had their
pictures, it should be easy enough to find them somewhere on the premises, or in the
environs, of the Chesterfield Spiritualist Camp. It was I who arranged to have Ralph
Pressing, the former publisher of the Psychic Observer, inspect the movies and the
photographs of the actors since he had lived on the grounds of the Camp for years. He
immediately identified each of the “spirits” as look-alikes to mediums residing on the
premises of the Chesterfield Spiritualist Camp. This answered the question as to how
security and secrecy was maintained at the Camp on the part of the actors.
It was apparent that some the professional mediums residing there were in
collusion, and the little old grandmother who whizzed around wind on her Sputnik
was the Queen of them all.
Figure No. 6 [photograph]
Gladys Strohm
Figure No. 7 [photograph]
Figure No. 8 [photograph]
The top three pictures this series shows, right to left Mable Riffle, "spirit of
Draper," and Gladys Strohm. Mable Riffle had suggested that we take pictures of the
inside of the cabinet to show the medium, Edith Stilwell and the "spirits," all at the
same time. The moving pictures show this sequel clearly, but this one frame (center)
will give you an idea of how the "spirits" toss the "ectoplasm" around. NOTE: Mable
Riffle and Gladys Strohm are shown holding the cabinet curtains open while Dr.
Puharich is shooting the film.
______________________
118
[Note by Psypioneer: - The final paper in this four part series presented by Dr. Carlos
S. Alvarado: - Mental Phenomena.]
Further Notes on Historical Ideas of Human
Radiations:
IV. Mental Phenomena (1)
Carlos S. Alvarado
While I have emphasized physical phenomena in the previous sections of this
paper, ideas of forces emanating from the human body were also associated to mental
phenomena. This included mental mediumship, and telepathy and clairvoyance.
Mental Mediumship
Adin Ballou (1853) believed that mediums were characterized by having a good
amount of “spiriticity,” an ethereal principle employed by discarnate spirits when
communicating through mediums. Spirit communicators quoted by Robert Hare in his
book Experimental Investigation of the Spirit Manifestations (1855), affirmed they
used “vitalized spiritual electricity” to influence the writing of mediums (p. 94). Hare
also mentioned an aura that spirits used to communicate, an aura that “only a few are
so endowed with” (p. 160).
Allan Kardec (1863, p. 279) cited spirit communications stating that the
discarnate spirit’s perispirit acted on the perispirit of the medium to produce such
phenomena as writing. The communicators stated the importance of the “affinity that
exists between our perispirit and the one of the medium that serves us as interpreter”
(p. 280).
In later years others recorded observations about forces involved with
mediumistic communications. Richard Hodgson (1898) summarized some relevant
communications received through Leonora Piper:
We all have bodies composed of “luminiferous ether”
enclosed in our flesh and blood bodies. The relation of Mrs.
Piper’s etherial body to the etherial world, in which the
“communicators” claim to dwell, is such that a special store
of peculiar energy is accumulated in connection with her
organism, and this appears to them as “a light.” Mrs. Piper's
etherial body is removed by them, and her ordinary body
appears as a shell filled with this “light.” Several
“communicators” may be in contact with this light at the same
time. There are two chief “masses” of it in her case, one in
connection with the head, the other in connection with the
right arm and hand. Latterly, that in connection with the hand
119
has been “brighter” than that in connection with the head. If
the “communicator” gets into contact with the “light” and
thinks his thoughts, they tend to be reproduced by movements
in Mrs. Piper's organism. Very few can produce vocal effects,
even, when in contact with the “light” of the head, but
practically all can-produce writing movements when in
contact with the “light” of the hand. Upon the amount and
brightness of this “light,” coeteris paribus, the
communications depend. When Mrs. Piper is in ill-health, the
“light” is feebler, and the communications tend to be less
coherent. It also gets used up during a sitting, and when it gets
dim there is a tendency to incoherence even in otherwise clear
communicators. In all cases, coming into contact with this
“light” tends to produce bewilderment, and if the contact is
continued too long, or the “light” becomes very dim, the
consciousness of the communicator tends to lapse completely
(p. 400).
Others also recorded communications about an emanation around the medium
that was sensitive to the thoughts of spirits. An example was Charles Drayton’s
Thomas’ (1928) discussion of medium Gladys Osborne Leonard. As he wrote
summarizing the idea and referring to the medium’s control:
Medium and sitter are surrounded by a cloud of this power.
Anything within this area is visible to Feda; but should a
communicator remain outside it he would be invisible to her,
and she could only with some difficulty obtain information
from him by “sensing.” Upon his entering the zone or sphere
of influence, Feda would be able to see and hear him.
This quasi-physical cloud emanates from the medium, and
the sitter may contribute some small amount. Although
usually visible to both control and communicator, the latter
can, by passing out of it and then re-entering, feel its
influence as a slight tingling (p. 73).
Telepathy and Clairvoyance
Many writers, such as the mesmerists, discussed ideas of force to account for
what we call today ESP. Physician Herbert Mayo discussed Od: “It cannot be doubted
that . . . an Od-current . . . enables the mind of the clairvoyante to penetrate the
interior being of the visiter,—just as, in the humblest effects of common mesmerism,
a relation is sensibly established between the party entranced and her mesmeriser,
through the Od-current which he had previously directed upon her, in order to
produce the trance” (1852, p. 185).
120
Chemist and physicist Williams Crookes (1897) discussed a variety of
physical vibrations and X rays in the hope of relating telepathy to physical processes.
As he wrote:
Let it be assumed that these rays, or rays even of higher
frequency, can pass into the brain and act on some
nervous centre there. Let it be conceived that the brain
contains a centre which uses these rays as the vocal cords
use sound vibrations (both being under the command of
intelligence), and sends them out, with the velocity of
light, to impinge on the receiving ganglion of another
brain. In this way some, at least, of the phenomena of
telepathy, and the transmission of intelligence from one
sensitive to another through long distances, seem to come
into the domain of law, and can be grasped (p. 352).
Others saw telepathy as “sort of a natural telegraph and telephone . . . a
magnetic communication without a conducting wire” (A. Denis, 1895, pp. 17-18).
Mark Twain (1891) wrote about “mental telegraphy” based on electricity. In his view
such cases as letters crossing in the mail, simultaneous development of ideas and
discoveries, and other coincidences, were the result of a mind telegraphing another at
a distance.
Héricourt's (1891) suggested that all bodies are connected to each other
through unknown energies. Some evolve and develop receptive organs for “errant
vibrations.” Others acquire the sensibility by some form of unbalance. This
sensitivity, another writer speculated, came from emotional bonds between people
such as those that exist in familial relationships (Baudoin, 1900).
Houston (1892) stated in an article entitled “Cerebral Radiations” that: “An
active brain may . . . be regarded as moulding the ether around it into thought waves
that are spreading outward from it in all directions” (p. 152). A second brain may
resonate with sympathetic vibrations coming from the thoughts of the first brain.
These vibrations must travel at the speed of light. Similarly, Léon Denis (1900)
argued that: “Thought vibrations may propagate through space like light and sounds
and may affect other organisms that are in affinity with the one manifesting. The
psychic waves, like hertzian waves in wireless telegraphy, propagate at a distance . . .
.”(p. 291). The response to the waves varies according to the person, manifesting as
visions, voices, or movements.
In his book Psychic Phenomena, Science and Immortality, Henry Frank (1911)
stated his belief in a physical transmission in telepathy, and the reasons it was not a
common phenomenon: “The reason that thought transference is at present so
uncommon, at least to my mind, is because the forms of thought, or modes of
vibration, which pass from individual brains, have been dissipated in the ether on
account of not having found synchronous brains on which to impinge, and being
without such paths their habits of action have not become fixed” (p. 341).
Some influential twentieth century research that has been forgotten by many
was that conducted by Italian Ferdinando Cazzamalli. Cazzamalli (e.g., Cazzamalli,
121
1925/1926, 1928, 1947, 1960) used a variety of instruments to detect radiations from
the brain. In his view the brain was a generator of electromagnetic energy responsible
for telepathy, particularly during altered states of consciousness. In an early paper
entitled “Telepsychic Phenomena and Cerebral Radiations,” Cazzamalli (1925/1926)
presented results of studies with instruments that supposedly detected electromagnetic
radiations and indicated their presence audibly through a frequency amplifyer. Using
psychics and individuals suffering from psychiatric conditions, Cazzamalli argued
that electromagnetic activity was detected at the time the participants – inside a
shielded chamber – were experiencing hallucinations, trances and telepathic
phenomena. These findings led him to state that: “The human subject, under particular
psychic conditions . . . gives off electromagnetic oscillations of the type of radio
waves” (Cazzamalli, 1925/1926, p. 16).
In later tests, conveniently summarized in his book Il Cervello Radiante,
Cazzamalli (1960) presented tracings directly made on film of the oscillations of the
radiations. These tracings, or “radiocerebropsychographs,” recorded the intensity of
these cerebral radiations, which varied according to a variety of factors such as the
type of person and their state of consciousness.
In the case of dowsing, Cazzamalli (1947) argued, the dowser’s brain emitted
electromagnetic waves. These waves could hit water, metal and other materials and,
as radar, would provide information to the brain by the variations in the waves’
feedback. This allowed them to detect the desired target. Another possibility was for
the brain to perceive radiations from the surrounding, that is, radiations emanations
from water and other materials.
For Cazzamalli parapsychological phenomena were basically neuropsychological. As
he wrote, “it is the brain which, having psycho-sensory centers in orgasm, [and
having] electrical and electromagnetic currents with radiant effects, acquires the
possibility of contacting directly the surrounding physical reality . . . .” (Cazzamalli,
1947, p. 87).
Cazzamalli was not the only one to argue for cerebral radiations during the
twentieth century. Others such as Wilson (1925), Azam (1926), and Sinel (1927)
speculated along similar, although less specific and less sophisticated lines. Sinel
postulated that the pineal gland was the locus of the “sixth sense.”
Charles Andry-Bourgeois (1935) compared ESP to television. He argued that
on one hand scientists worked hard to transmit a “simple animated image at a
distance,” while the brain of a clairvoyant in trance, “this marvelous emitting and
receptive post of ‘psychic waves,’ . . . does this automatically, unconsciously,
instinctively, so to speak” (p. 487).
Although not specifically connected to the brain, one of the best known
physical ideas of ESP in psychical research literature was Charles Richet’s concept of
unknown vibrations to account for the “sixth sense.” As Richet wrote: “The sixth
sense is that one which gives us knowledge of a vibration of reality, a vibration which
our normal senses are unable to perceive” (Richet, n.d., p. 224).
122
Another writer that wrote about physical transmission analogies of telepathy
was engineer René Warcollier (1938). In his book of collected essays, Experimental
Telepathy, Warcollier discussed the nature of the telepathic transmission. He
cautioned the reader that he was using physical processes as analogies and that he was
only speculating. Nonetheless, some of his writings suggest a more solid belief than
Warcollier admitted. In an essay first written in 1921 Warcollier said that the process
was one in which “the vibration of one of A’s cerebral neurones producing by
resonance, the corresponding vibration in one of P’s cerebral neurons . . . .”
(Warcollier, 1938, p. 199).
As Warcollier wrote about the actual process:
It seems to me that we can find in the disintegration of the
atom the origin of radiations to account for distant and
swift transmission. Psychic radioactivity, the breaking
down of atoms of cerebral cells, is certainly pure
hypothesis, but I feel it is necessary to explain the
telepathic phenomenon . . . . Modern physics has
demonstrated that our organs, like other material bodies,
are made up of whirlwinds of forces, reacting on one
another. The spirit is more at ease with the conceptions of
these minute solar systems of ions and electrons than with
the blood-filled particles that constitute the brain . . . .
When we face the question from this angle . . . we can
conceive perfectly how the vibrations of the nervous
system can be produced, how they can lead the vibrations
of external bodies, through the nerve centers, to the centers
of consciousness. We can conceive how motor nerves can
transmit orders to muscles, how ideas can be associated
with or without fibers of association, can pass beyond the
cranium and influence, by induction, other nerve centers in
other brains (pp. 199, 202-203).
Not everyone interested in the phenomena took a physical approach involving
vibrations or forces. Frederic W. H. Myers (1886) affirmed: “We may say that
telepathy is a psychical agency, and that there is an impassable gulf between all
agencies which can be classed as physical on the one hand, and on the other hand, all
agencies, whether apparently operating in proximity or at a distance, which we can as
yet cognise on the psychical side alone” (p. 178). Other individuals — such as Rudolf
Tischner (1925), Hans Driesch (1932/1933), and J.B. Rhine (1934) — opposed
radiation explanations of ESP and argued for non-physical models. For example,
Driesch referred to the necessity of postulating a “mental field,” described as
“something superpersonal in addition to something non-spatial in general” (Driesch,
1932/1933, p. 133). This ambiguous statement referred to some sort of mental plane
not bound by space that could connect different minds.
123
Concluding Remarks
This concludes this series of short notes on historical concepts of force related
to psychic phenomena. The notes, readers should keep in mind, were not intended as
complete reviews, but as offering supplementary material material to a previous paper
on the topic (Alvarado, 2006). Furthermore, I have not covered speculations on all
possible phenomena, leaving aside, for example, psychic photography, hauntings,
healing, and auras.
As argued before, the ideas discussed in these notes were related to a great
extent to the scientific interests of the times. This included ideas about nerve fluids
and animal electricity in past neurophysiology (Brazier, 1984; Morus, 1988).
Furthermore, there were also multiple nineteenth-century developments about force
and energy, including electricity and magnetism (Harman, 1982). The latter, as well
as the rise of technology, was referred to by French popularizer of science Louis
Figuier (1884) as the “new conquests of science.” All of this—focusing on the
transmission of electricity, nerve conduction, and on technologies such as
telegraphy—encouraged the idea of transmission via a physical medium by assuming
the extension of science into the unknown.
Such knowledge also brought us perspectives such as Flammarion’s (1900),
who argued that while X rays, the telephone, and several physical processes showed
what scientists had learned, they also served to remind us about how much was still to
learn about the universe. Consequently, he said, we should open our minds to the
domain of the unknown, which included telepathy and other phenomena.
The concepts discussed here were speculations developed from observations. In
using the word speculation I want to emphasize the supposed or hypothetical
character of these concepts. The ideas I have mentioned were suppositions that were
rarely generated through or supported by attempts to test the concept in scientific
ways. Rather they were assumptions in which imagined extensions of physical
concepts were used to make sense of the phenomena observed. These concepts of
force are perhaps part of what Holton (1988) has referred to as thematic concepts in
science, or general ideas that guide the course of science in different ways, while
being resistant to proof or disproof, according to one’s perspective.
Holton discussed concepts that ranged from the more general such as
reductionism, atomism and evolution, to the more specific such as particular physical
processes (e.g., inertia). Among these were ideas still considered valid, as well as
those concepts that have been discarded over time, including such principles as
humors, animal spirits, phlogiston, and the ether. While in some cases these ideas are
now thought to have affected science negatively, they may also be seen as concepts
that performed useful functions of creation and organization to those individuals who
proposed them as true depictions of nature. This was the case of animal magnetism
and the perispirit, which were central in mesmerism and spiritism. These concepts,
interestingly enough, could be and were used to support different models,
differentiating between ideas of human and discarnate agency.
124
In any case, the ideas presented here show the richness of the literatures in
question. I offer my comments in the hopes that by presenting selected bibliography, I
will awaken historical interest in these topics.
Note
1. Readers should keep in mind that these notes are meant as supplementary
material for a previous paper (Alvarado, 2006). I am grateful to Nancy L. Zingrone
for useful editorial suggestions for the improvement of the four parts of this paper.
References
Alvarado, C.S. (2006). Human radiations: Concepts of force in mesmerism, spiritualism and psychical
research. Journal of the Society for Psychical Research, 70, 138-162.
Andry-Bourgeois, [C]. (1935). La télévision et la voyance. Revue spirite, 78, 481-487.
Azam, H. (1926). Télégraphie sans fil et médiumnité: De la pratique de la médiumnité à l’evolution de
l’ame dans l’universe. Revue spirite, 69, 122-128.
Ballou, A. (1853). An Exposition of Views Respecting the Modern Spiritual Manifestations (from the
2nd American ed.). Liverpool: Edward Howell.
Baudoin, M. (1900). Un cas de télépathie: Manifestations d’une mourante sur sa soeur a l’état de veille
constatée par un médicin en visite et charactérisée par un phénomène physique. Annales des sciences
psychique, 10, 129-142.
Brazier, M.A.B. (1984). A History of Neurophysiology in the 17th and 18th Centuries. New York:
Raven Press.
Cazzamalli, F. (1926). Telepsychic phenomena and cerebral radiations. Journal of the American
Society for Psychical Research, 20, 1-17. (First published in French, 1925)
Cazzamalli, F. (1928). Les ondes électro-magnétiques en correlation avec certains phénomènes psycho-
sensoriales du cerveau humain. Compte rendu du IIIème
Congrès International de Recherche
Psychiques (pp. 45-55). Paris: Institut Métapsychique International.
Cazzamalli, F. (1947). De las posibles condiciones físicas de los fenómenos telepsíquicos. Revista
Médica de Metapsíquica, 1(1), 80-90.
Cazzamalli, F. (1960). Il Cervello Radianti: Fenomeni Elettromagnetici Radianti dal Cervello Umano
Durante l’Intensa Attivita Psicosensoriale degli Stati Onirici, Allucinatori e Telepsichici. Milan:
Ceschina.
Crookes, W. (1897) Address by the President. Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, 12,
338-355.
Denis, A. (1895). Essai d’une théorie de la télépathie. Annales des sciences psychiques, 5, 14-32.
Denis, L. (1900). Psychologie expérimentale: Phénomènes d’extériorisation et de dédoublement.
Annales des sciences psychiques, 10, 291-294.
Driesch, H. (1933). Psychical Research: The Science of the Super-normal. London: G. Bell. (First
published in German, 1932)
Figuier, L. [1884]. Les nouvelles conquêtes de la science (4 vols.). Paris: Librairie Illustrée.
Flammarion, C. (1900). L’inconnu: The Unknown. New York: Harper.
125
Frank, H. (1911). Psychic Phenomena, Science and Immortality. Boston: Sherman, French.
Hare, R. (1855). Experimental Investigation of the Spirit Manifestations Demonstrating the Existence
of Spirits and Their Communion with Mortals. New York: Partridge & Brittan.
Harman, P.M. (1982). Energy, Force and Matter: The Conceptual Development of 19th
Century
Physics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Héricourt, J. (1891). Review of Les hallucinations télépatiques, by E. Gurney, F.W.H. Myers, and F.
Podmore. Annales des sciences psychiques, 1, 313-319.
Hodgson, R. (1898). A further record of observations of certain phenomena of trance. Proceedings of
the Society for Psychical Research, 13, 284-582.
Holton, G. (1988). Thematic Origins of Scientific Thought: Kepler to Einstein (rev. ed.). Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press.
Houston, J. (1892). Cerebral radiations. Psychical Review, 1, 150-157.
Kardec, A. (1863). Spiritisme expérimental: Le livre des médiums ou guide des médiums et des
évocateurs (6th
ed.). Paris: Didier.
Mayo, H. (1852). Popular Superstitions, and the Theories Contained therein, with an Account of
Mesmerism (from the 3rd
London ed.). Philadelphia: Lindsay and Blakiston.
Morus, I.R. (1998). Galvanic cultures: Electricity and life in the early nineteenth century. Endeavour,
22, 7-11.
Myers, F. W. H. (1886). On telepathic hypnotism, and its relation to other forms of hypnotic
suggestion. Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, 4, 127-188.
Rhine, J.B. (1934). Extra-sensory Perception. Boson: Boston Society for Psychic Research.
Richet, C. (n.d., ca 1928). Our Sixth Sense. London: Rider.
Sinel, J. (1927). The Sixth Sense: A Physical Explanation of Clairvoyance, Telepathy, Hypnotism,
Dreams, and Other Phenomena Usually Considered Occult. London: T.W. Laurie.
Thomas, C.D. (1928). The modus operandi of trance communication according to descriptions received
through Mrs. Osborne Leonard. Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, 38, 49-100.
Tischner, R.E. (1925). Telepathy and Clairvoyance. New York: Harcourt, Brace.
Twain, M. (1891). Mental telegraphy: A manuscript with a history. Harper’s New Monthly Magazine,
84, 95-104.
Warcollier, R. (1938). Experimental Telepathy. Boston: Boston Society for Psychic Research.
Wilson, T.S. (1925). Thought Transference: Speculations Upon Psychology and Religion. London:
George Allen and Unwin.
______________________
126
HORACE LEAF
1886c – 1971
Horace Leaf F.R.G.S. (1886c – 1971) was a well known British propagandist, who
lectured widely at home and abroad on psychic subjects. His interest in the psychic
field was aroused in 1904; he was mediumistic and practiced clairvoyance,
psychometry and healing. Leaf authored a number of books including ‘What is this
Spiritualism’1918 (1919 U.S.A.), ‘Under the Southern Cross’9
1923, ‘The
Psychology and Development of Mediumship’ (the publication date of this book
is uncertain but it is c1926,). It is interesting to note that Horace Leaf met James
Hewat McKenzie10
at the beginning of the twentieth century at a debating
society in Clapton, North London, where religious, scientific, political,
philosophical views were discussed. Leaf was unaware that McKenzie was a
Spiritualist, and when the young Horace Leaf became a Spiritualist medium,
McKenzie’s interest naturally increased in him.
Soon after, James Hewat McKenzie established in April 1920, the ‘British
College of Psychic Science’ (BCPS) at 59 Holland Park, London which was a
spacious double-fronted, twenty five roomed house. Leaf was invited to become
staff lecturer on psychology and the development of mediumship. Out of this
developed his book The Psychology and Development of Mediumship with Mr.
McKenzie writing the foreword.
Leaf often contributed articles to Light. Reprinted below is one such article11
whilst in
Australia. After leaving Sydney he arrived at Auckland in June, according to ‘The
Spiritualist Church of New Zealand’ in their Early History of Spiritualism in New
Zealand12
The Australasia – New Zealand lecture tour lasted for twelve months. Mr. and Mrs.
Leaf traveled over 35, 000 miles. A welcome-home social event was held at Mortimer
Hall, Regent Street, London on Monday 5th
March 1923 by a representative body of
Spiritualists who gathered to greet Mr. and Mrs. Leaf. The ‘Marylebone Spiritualist
Association’ (MSA) was represented by their president George Craze who delivered
one of the welcoming speeches.
PJG
_________________
9
This has an introduction by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Illustrated, and chronicles his travels in the
southern hemisphere. Psypioneer is purchasing a copy of this for more information on his Australian
and New Zealand tour.
10
See: - A Knight Errant of Psychic Science James Hewat McKenzie page 169.
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.8August07..pdf
11
Light, August 12, 1922 page 507
12
See: - The Spiritualist Church of New Zealand
http://www.spiritualists.org.nz/cms/pages/history.php
127
EXPERIENCES OF AN OLD AUSTRALIAN
SPIRITUALIST
BY HORACE LEAF
________
The magnificent city of Sydney has the largest population in Australia and is
rapidly growing. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle regards it as the home of Spiritualism,
and my experience confirms that conclusion. One of the most pleasant features
about the movement here is the good feeling prevailing among the various
Spiritualist organisations. They unite together with the greatest good feeling
when any special effort on behalf of the Cause is being made. In this way my
brief stay in Sydney was made a great success, and a most pleasant experience.
There have been many remarkable mediums at different times in Sydney, and
I took the opportunity to gather from the oldest and most experienced supporters
of Spiritualism accounts of their best and most convincing experiences.
One of the sources from whence I drew my information was Mr. Nettleton, a
hearty Yorkshireman, whose experience of psychic phenomena extends well over
thirty years, and who is President of a Spiritualistic Society known as the
Spiritual Scientists of Sydney, an active and progressive body founded in 1912
by Mrs. L. Elmore, of U.S.A. His reliability is shown in the great respect in
which he is held by his fellow workers, and the genuine love shown to him by
the congregation over which he presides. My personal testimony is not without
value, as Mrs. Leaf and I had the good fortune to enjoy the hospitality and
friendship of Mr. and Mrs. Nettleton, during part of our stay in New South
Wales.
Mr. Nettleton's most remarkable experience of the power of clairvoyance is
the following: About 1886, knowing nothing of clairvoyance or second sight,
and having heard little for or against Spiritualism, he went to see a certain
medium who was almost totally blind. He had no belief in what he regarded as
fortune telling, being a strict Methodist, and was careful not in any way to give
the medium any clues which would help her. He had never seen the medium
before, and it is very unlikely that she knew anything of his existence, as Mr.
Nettleton was a total stranger to the district in which the medium lived, and had
not long arrived in Australia from England.
The medium asked Mr. Nettleton to place his hand on top of hers, and placing
her free hand over his, immediately told him his name and business, and stated
that she could see his shop and a lady in it selling a certain article, mentioning
even the price received for it. Mr. Nettleton on arriving home found that the
medium had exactly described what had occurred in his own shop, and the
correct time.
After requesting Mr. Nettleton not to speak too much, but to leave the talking
to her, as that was her part of the sitting, she asked him if he had any questions
to ask. He then requested her to inform him, if possible, how his brother was. His
128
brother was living in England, and there had been very little correspondence
between them for some time, but news had reached Mr. Nettleton that his brother
was ill. Without any assistance the medium said: “I am at Leeds, and now I am
going along a country road. I am in a long street”; and thereupon she described
Mr. Nettleton's brother's place of business, and said, “He is a saddler and harness
maker,” even reading aloud the sign which she declared she saw over the door of
the brother's shop. She then said, “I see a man standing at the door smoking.”
And on describing this person, Mr. Nettleton realised that it was a splendid
description of his brother. Continuing, she said: “This gentleman has been very
ill, but is now much better.” Later, on making enquiries, Mr. Nettleton found all
this to be true.
It will be observed that there is nothing spiritual about this form of clear
seeing, so far as evidence of survival is concerned. This in itself will be
sufficient for certain thoughtless and narrow-minded critics to condemn it as
unworthy. To do so, however, is to pass an adverse judgment upon one of the
most remarkable and curious of human faculties. Second sight is apparently as
old as the human race and common to all peoples. It raises important scientific or
philosophical questions, for if man can see without the use of the physical brain,
it is evidence that the consciousness is really independent of that organ, and
perhaps the physical body altogether. This is at least good prima facie evidence
that man is destined to survive death.
Mr. Nettleton certainly has every reason to be thankful for the existence of
this wonderful gift, as it resulted in finding for him three lost horses, even as
Samuel discovered the whereabouts of Saul's father's lost asses. Having sent
three horses away for grazing purposes, after six months he wrote for them to be
returned. In reply he received a letter delaying their arrival for a few days; a
process which continued for several months. Later he discovered that the man in
whose charge he had left the animals had disappeared; so likewise had the
horses. Much perturbed in his mind the unfortunate owner applied to various
mediums, hoping to obtain some trace of his beasts, but without success.
Finally he applied to the blind woman and placing in her hand a letter
connected with the affair anxiously awaited the result. Immediately she said,
“This letter is concerning horses, and there is a mystery about them.” She then
told him to go and make enquiries along a certain road some distance from
Sydney. He would then trace the horses and make arrangements for two to be
brought home, while he would himself bring the other. This is exactly what
occurred. One of the horses being of a docile nature he brought it back with him;
but the other two being rather restive he had to arrange to be sent back later.
One of Mr. Nettleton's brothers had a curious experience in the way of a
coincidence accurately prognosticating the circumstances under which he died.
On his way through England he had his “future read” in the street by an Italian
with canaries. On paying a penny the woman caused the bird to select a folded
slip of paper from amongst many others tightly packed together. The slip read,
“You will go to a foreign country and be drowned.” This came to pass. Several
years later the man went to Australia and was unexpectedly drowned there in a
boating accident.
129
Please note: - “Copyright of all material appearing in LIGHT is reserved to the authors and original
publisher. It may not be reproduced or translated, either wholly or in part, without written permission.
LIGHT is still published by the College of Psychic Studies and you are urged to subscribe.
http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/index.html”
__________________________________
PLEASE
SUPPORT PSYPIONEER WITH BUYING YOUR
BOOKS THROUGH US!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K.,
postage, elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling’ By John Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara
& Ann Harrison @ £7.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-
9514534-6-9. See Psypioneer book review: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860.
Re-Published by Psypioneer @ £14.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of
Modern Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis Published May 2000 by Psychic
Pioneer Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 Inc U.K., postage (please add
20% for airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his
death’ Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is
a small booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
130
‘Occultism and Spiritualism – a book review by, Stainton Moses originally published
under the pseudonym M.A. (Oxon). Published 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications,
this is a small booklet 10pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
All three Psychic Pioneer Publications £6.00 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on the
web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian
friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free and direct by
sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to
discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
131
