{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v4_n6_jun_2008.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V4 N6 Jun 2008","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 4, No 6: June 2008
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
Sitting with Churchill – and King – Leslie Price 132
First Psypioneer webmaster dies – Leslie Price 134
Emma to the rescue 1881 – Paul J. Gaunt 135
Mrs Duncan rejected SPR approach – 140
Last minute halt to infra red tests – 140
The eager researcher? – 141
Notes by the way – Leslie Price 142
New CFPSS president – 145
Newton Crosland – Paul J. Gaunt 145
What I saw in Australia – Arthur Ford 151
Emma Hardinge Website - 153
Books for sale - 154
How to obtain this Newsletter by email 155
=========================================
SITTING WITH CHURCHILL - AND KING
Most people in public life, such as politicians, do not wish it to be known that they sit
with mediums. This presents a problem for the historian because the absence of
written record does not mean that such connections never existed. What we can do is
to assess the evidence of silence by common sense, asking for example, when the
claim was made, and by whom. In the case of Helen Duncan, and her supposed
association with Churchill, the absence of any such claim in her daughter Gina
Brealey’s memoir is significant. Moreover, Churchill never seems to have assisted the
Spiritualist Movement in any way.
An interview in Psychic News (7 June 2008) managed to claim two Churchill links on
one page. Eric Hatton spoke of his late wife Heather, who lived at Ventnor, Isle of
Wight, in the war, at a time when few mediums came there
“One who did was known simply as Jacqueline. When I spoke to Gordon Higginson
about her, I discovered that he was one of the few people who had known her. Anyway
Heather’s dad was talking with her, and she told him that there had been occasions
when her cousin had availed himself of the advice of mediums when the conduct of the
war was imperative to him. Her name was Jacqueline Churchill.”
132
There was a noted medium in 1930s London called “Miss Jacqueline.”, about whom
more in a later issue.
The interviewer comments “It’s often been suggested that Churchill sat with the
medium Bertha Harris”. Hatton responds “Yes, he did”.
The career of Bertha Harris was certainly distinguished1
. One attempt at her life story
“From Séance to Science” by George Meek and Bertha Harris (1973) was based on
taped interviews that I conducted at her home in Golders Green. I am sure that George
(whom I had first met while standing on a ladder in the library at Stansted) would
have been very pleased to know more about these famous sitters, to further enliven
the book.
In Maurice Leonard’s informative biography “Battling Bertha” (Regency Press,
1975), the author refers to a PN story of 21 November 1970 which was chiefly about
her sittings with Gen. De Gaulle, which had been disclosed by a French newspaper.
“In the PN article the names of Winston Churchill and King George of Greece are
conspicuous. According to Bertha, Churchill was another of her clients, and he
consulted her on many occasions, leaving his limousine a few streets away so as not
to attract attention. Again, she will not divulge the contents of these sittings…. A
grandson of Sir Winston’s gave the denial that his grandfather had consulted Bertha
and she replies with vigour “How can he possibly know. He’s arrogant if he thinks he
does.” (Leonard, p.95)
A basic step for anyone interested in Churchill and Spiritualism is to consult the
Churchill Archives2
.
From the online catalogue, it is possible to find a number of references to Spiritualism
which was in the public eye for much of Churchill’s life. But the Churchill Archives
tell me that Bertha Harris and Jacqueline Churchill do not appear. So historians will
have to follow up these matters in other places.
In contrast, one wartime leader whose interest in Spiritualism is now public
knowledge was the prime minister of Canada, William Mackenzie King (he finally
retired in 1948).
King kept a diary, which you can consult online3
. Suppose you enter the name
“Phillimore” (in the ‘Search’ facility) looking for Miss Mercy Phillimore, LSA
secretary. By reading the entries, you see he got books from the Quest Club of the
LSA before the war, and that after the war he arranged sittings in London with
mediums via Mercy, and talked to her about changes at the LSA.
1
See: - http://www.answers.com/topic/bertha-harris
2
See: - http://www.chu.cam.ac.uk/archives/
3
See: - http://king.archives.ca/EN/default.asp
133
If you enter “Geraldine Cummins” you will find an actual page from LIGHT with a
review of a GC book, as well as accounts of his communications with Roosevelt
through GC.
In February 2008, a new doctoral thesis by Margaret Bedore of Queen’s University,
Ontario was published in full online4
.
This examines the reading of Mackenzie King, and enables one to see how he used
the psychic books he obtained from LSA and elsewhere. Some of these books were
probably selected by Ruby Yeatman, librarian at the LSA, and later principal when its
name had changed to CPS. They show what was regarded as good evidence by a
leading Spiritualist body of the time.
LP.
__________________________________
FIRST PSYPIONEER WEBMASTER DIES
The passing of Tony Hern on 25 May 2008 in St. Thomas’s Hospital London came as
a shock, as he had only just begun a course of treatment for lung cancer. Tony was the
webmaster for Psypioneer in its first incarnations as a web site. Knowing of his
interest in computers, I had sought his help to actualise the concept of a publication
concerned with the pioneers. In late 1999, he secured a free site, and then an actual
“dot.com” address. He designed the site and uploaded the content. Clearly without his
aid, it would not have come to pass.
In fact we had been friends for forty years. In 1968, when I went to work as librarian
for the College of Psychic Studies, also the chief meeting place of the Psychic Youth
Group, he was to become vice-chairman of PYG, until it dissolved itself at a meeting
at Acacia House in January 1970. Tony went on to spend several months in India
which he found too noisy. For some years he worked in Watkins Bookshop, and also
in Compendium. In 1978, he had joined me for a time at the short-lived Transpersonal
Bookshop in Hove.
It was in 1993 however that he made his main contribution to history. He was then
living near to the India Office in Blackfriars Road, and at my suggestion examined
their archives in search of Madame Blavatsky. Astonishingly, he found papers
concerning a secret 1879 investigation into her background by the British, following a
tip from an Ottoman source. A grant from Blavatsky Trust made it possible to
transcribe and where necessary translate the papers. They were one of the revelations
in Paul Johnson’s best-selling book “The Masters Revealed” (1994). Tony continued
his research, publishing a pamphlet about the historic borough of Southwark where he
lived.
4
See: - http://qspace.library.queensu.ca/handle/1974/1019
134
Tony was one of a number of persons in the London esoteric book scene who became
Sufis. His own teacher was a headmaster in India who visited England. He had a
Moslem funeral and was interred in the Moslem section of Nunhead cemetery, SE
London.
LP.
______________________
EMMA TO THE RESCUE 1881
Emma Hardinge Britten re-started her British public propagandism in September
1881; this decade saw much achievement in her public and literary works, but these
years are little referred to in her Autobiography. They were very demanding years and
perhaps led to her sad decline in health.
Below is taken from: -
THE HERALD OF PROGRESS Sept. 16, 1881 page 123.
A PLEA FOR THE REVIVAL OF
SPIRITUALISM
BY EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TO THE ENGLISH SPIRITUAL JOURNALS
Some eight months ago I returned from a long tour round the world, and many years
of incessant labour, intending to devote one twelvemonth to rest and urgent family
duties. With this view I refused to fulfil any of the numerous engagements to lecture
tendered to me, and I now beg to state why I rescind this decision, and desire to give
such service as my health and strength will permit, to the cause of spiritual
propaganda for a brief period. From every side I heard of the many "disgraces" that
"evil doers had put upon the cause," and how many of the "best people" who had
formerly graced its ranks had withdrawn from all public connexion with it.
During my residence here, I have been a silent, but not uninterested, observer of
this policy and its results.
As may be expected, Spiritualism has indeed sunk to a very low ebb, but still it is
by no means defeated by its TAME FRIENDS. Here, in the North of England, I find
any number of those earnest souls who have even more to lose than the wealthy and
influential, giving their all to maintain the truth they believe in, but, of course,
working the stream for want of that support which has been withdrawn from them.
135
After earnest questioning on the part of my spirit friends, which I considered to be
"the best people," those who had deserted the cause for fear of being tarnished by the
ill name put upon it, or those who still risked everything to stand by it, and I have had
to come to the conclusion that the "best people" are those who bravely do their duty in
despite of obstacles, rather than those who retreat behind them; and so I have at last
yielded to the desire of my spirit friends to do what lays in my power to show the
world that Spiritualism is one thing and Spiritualists are another; also, that no
individual or community can, in their own good or bad actions, represent a world-
wide cause like Spiritualism. I am quite aware that if those who possess wealth and
influence would come forward to lift up their cause, instead of boasting that they had
done so much in shrinking from it, they would replace it on the pinnacle of popularity
which it occupied when I came to England twelve years ago. But each one knows his
own duty best, and if those who will not uphold the cause they believe in for fear of
the scandal that has been brought upon it, can reconcile their conduct and their
responsibility hereafter, it is their affair, not mine; meantime, I believe that anything I
can do for the cause of Spiritualism is now more imperatively demanded than ever.
I know, beyond a doubt, that the great success of the movement in America is due
to the zeal acid activity of its PUBLIC PROPAGANDISM. Private investigation of
phenomena goes hand in hand there with public expositions of its facts and
philosophy; neither ever did, or ever can, act alone, but combined, they are
irresistible.
The drawing-room Spiritualists of Europe, who ignore the rostrum and the
newspaper, may satisfy themselves here, but may find hereafter that they have been
commissioned to distribute the bread of life to others as freely as they have received
it, and failed to do so. Let me add, that those who attempt to salve over their
consciences by urging that the world has the Bible (revised), the churches, and tens of
thousands of Christian pastors ready to minister to it, had better read the columns of
the daily papers; see the enormous fruits of ever-increasing crime that their much
vaunted systems of eighteen centuries religious growth is producing, and if they are
not satisfied that the people are pining and perishing for want of true practical
religion, I am; and finding that religion, in the facts of immortality and personal
responsibility, demonstrated by Spiritualism, I mean to dispense it as far as I can, and
that even if the great ones of earth won’t put forth a hand to help me.
Let the friends of the cause in the North of England, or within a comatable distance
from my residence, understand, therefore, that I am ready, for a short time, to give
lectures, as heretofore, on Spiritualism. Let them help me, as I will help them, to put
our faith fairly before those who will come to listen, and it is quite possible that we
may effect as much for the cause of truth as if the very "best people" were with us.
Perhaps they will be; certainly we may rest assured the best spirits will be there, and
in that faith I am now ready to receive applications as early as possible, addressed to
"Emma Hardinge Britten, The Limes, Humphrey Street, Cheetham Hill, Manchester."
Sept. 7th, 1881.
_______________________
136
Emma Hardinge Britten gave her first oration, on Sunday 18th
September: -
LIVERPOOL: - Mrs Emma Hardinge Britten began her present campaign under
promising auspices, at the Concert Hall, Lord Nelson Street, last Sunday, delivering
two orations to highly appreciative audiences. Subject in the morning - “Signs of the
Times;” evening subject (or rather subjects), for her controls took six questions, and
dealt with them in the lucid style for which Mrs Britten's guides are noted. It is to be
hoped that Societies will avail themselves of the generous terms placed at the disposal
of the Spiritualists of this country for a time, and that increased interest on important
questions will be the result.5
Following EHB’s return to England, and the commencement of her orations
on Sunday 18th
September 1881 until the year end, she was heavily booked
with meetings. Sunday bookings often saw her giving two orations during this
day, and if her stay at any given venue was to be longer, she could well have
given up to seven orations. Checking through her diary of bookings we see
her appearing at Halifax, Newcastle, Nottingham, Keighley, Sowerby Bridge,
Oldham, Birmingham, West Pelton, Batley Carr and Manchester to name but some of
the societies that organised these meetings.
At the ‘Batley Carr Association’, (West Yorkshire) EHB opened their bazzar on
Christmas Eve, Christmas Day she gave two lectures (afternoon and evening) Boxing
Day the bazaar was continued and EHB was again present at a social Christmas
gathering. The bazaar was intended to raise funds for a Library - a sum of £31.00
EHB lectures were interlaced with other leading exponents at this time
namely J.J. Morse and Mr. J. C. Wright. E.W. Wallis would normally be
added to this list, but at this period he was in America, returning to England
in April 1882.
Britten’s second meeting was at Halifax, I have printed below6
a review of
this meeting that gives us an insight into the enthusiasm and passion she felt.
Admission was 6d. and 3d. in the large room of the Mechanics’ Hall, doors
open at 2pm. and 5.30p.m. It was stipulated that the evening discourse was to
be the choice of the audience: which must be a religious one.
5
Taken from: THE HERALD OF PROGRESS September 23, 1881 page 141
6
THE HERALD OF PROGRESS Oct 7, 1881 page 170
137
MRS. E. H. BRITTEN AT HALIFAX
Sunday, September 25th, was a “red letter day” to the Spiritualists of Halifax and
surrounding neighbourhood. That grand and valiant apostle of Modern Spiritualism,
Emma Hardinge Britten, rendered invaluable service to our noble cause in this town.
Spiritualists from Bradford, Batley Carr, Huddersfield, Sowerby Bridge, and other
surrounding districts came to the Mechanics' Hall, to hear the world-famed
Spiritualist orator, anticipating a spiritual feast, and well were they rewarded, and we
think a profound impression must have been made on the minds of non- Spiritualists
in favour of our cause. The Hall was nearly full both in the afternoon and evening,
and there was a fair sprinkling of strangers, who doubtless came out of curiosity.
However, I venture to say that most of them went away highly edified and elevated.
Never can the sight of the upturned faces be forgotten, as they were rivetted towards
the lady orator. The subject in the afternoon was- “Who are the World's Saviours?”
The speaker commenced by adverting to the importance of salvation as evinced by
the money lavished in the erection and maintenance of salvation houses (churches and
chapels) and salvation ministers; but she did not omit to combat the erroneous and
current notions of salvation en passent. The reputed saviours of the time, i.e., the
salvation ministers, had failed in a great measure to save the world from the four
ghastly demons - War, Crime, Want, and Ignorance. The dear Jesus and other spiritual
teachers of the past had contributed to man's salvation by their divine and
humanitarian labours. They were grand beacon lights - illumining our pathway and by
their labours and influence drawing us up nearer to the all-Father. She concluded by
showing the value of modern Spiritualism, in the great work of human salvation from
sin and spiritual darkness. The returning of the immortals tended to save humanity
from fears and doubts in regard to the here-after, and furnished the best incentives to
the attainment of the higher life even in this sphere by the revelation that the Christ
principle, which is the saving principle is inherent in every man and woman, all must
save themselves.
The evening subject announced on the posters was to be chosen by the audience;
about fifteen subjects were handed up to the chairman. To save time six subjects were
chosen from the lot, and the chairman was about to put them to the vote, when the
speaker offered to dilate upon the whole of the six subjects.
They were as follows:-1st-“What is the Difference Between Spirit, Soul, and Mind
and their Relation to the Physical Organism;” 2nd-“The End of the World;” 3rd-“The
Trinity;” 4th-“What Evidences are there to show the Superiority of Spiritualism over
Salvation:” 5th-“Is Spiritualism Devilish or Divine;” 6th-“Righteousness Exalteth a
Nation.”
I forbear to enter into details in regard to her treatment of these subjects, because
in the first place I fear to tread on your valuable space, and in the second place
because of my deep sense of my inadequacy to do so. Suffice it to say that the speaker
elicited repeated bursts of applause from the audience, and wrung tears from many
eyes. In her treatment of the last subject, she very feelingly referred to President
Garfield, not only as a president but as a great and good man. The speaker had been
sheltered under his hospitable roof and had shared his board, and she claimed to know
138
something of the spirit and granduer of the man. A resolution thanking the speaker for
her soul-stirring discourses was about to be put by the chairman, Mr John Culpan, an
influential townsman and Spiritualist, when the speaker rose and forbade the
procedure. She was made to say that the speaker was but the willing instrument and
vehicle through whom a noble band of spirits operated. Let God and his angels be
thanked for what they had received. Heaven grant that this noble lady may have
continued health and strength to enable her to preach the gospel of Spiritualism
throughout the land.
A. O. WILSON.
Paul J. Gaunt
____________________________
Comment by LP...
It is worth considering the wider situation in which Emma wrote the initial letter
here republished. She had perhaps been moved to write by the need to earn
money to support her husband and elderly mother.
Some leading Spiritualists had gone over to the Theosophical Society founded in
1875, ironically with Emma a founder member. Emily Kislingbury, BNAS
secretary, was a prominent example of a Spiritualist turned Theosophist.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was gradually succumbing to
internal disputes. Moreover, at one of its séances in January 1880, Mrs Corner
had been seized,7
causing great scandal.
William Crookes had withdrawn from active investigation.
However there were signs of hope. After the seizing of Mrs Corner, Stainton
Moses had published some papers on “Higher Aspects of Spiritualism” (1880)
which eloquently restated the Spiritualist philosophy.
In January 1881, the new weekly “LIGHT” had appeared. This represented,
however, a type of mild intellectual Christian Spiritualism which Emma would
not find congenial.
In January 1882, following a suggestion by Dawson Rogers to Professor William
Barrett, the first meeting was held of the Society for Psychical Research.8
This
event was to prove a mixed blessing to Spiritualism.
Emma’s interest in a more radical Spiritualism was to develop during the 1880s
which, I understand, Psypioneer will explore in the months ahead.
7
The Seizure of Mrs. Elgie Corner See: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.8August06..pdf
8
SPR was Conceived by Spiritualist See: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP1.pdf
139
DUNCAN REJECTED SPR APPROACH
Helen Duncan declined an invitation from the SPR, despite a substantial cash
inducement.
It was in May 1947 that a group of S.P.R. members interested in the investigation of
physical phenomena decided to subscribe to an award of £250, to be given to the first
medium able and willing to demonstrate supernormal physical effects. The offer
closed on December 3lst 1947. The SPR research officer, Dr Donald West, was to
judge the genuineness of the phenomena, and the SPR séance room and infra-red
telescope were to be used for the purposes of the investigation.
The results were published in JSPR January 1948, and SPR members can read the full
text online (all SPR journals and proceedings are made available in this way, after a
year or so). The report states: “Mrs Helen Duncan (materialisation) was very definite
in her refusal, saying that she would not sit at the S.P.R., “for a million”.”
Credit must be given to Mrs Duncan for at least replying – Alec Harris did not. But
one cannot help thinking this refusal was regrettable. Although individual SPR
members did sit with Mrs Duncan throughout her career, she never sat at the SPR or
on behalf of the Society. Yet this would have offered a number of advantages. There
would have been no danger of the attentions from the police which caused such
problems. Conditions could have been carefully worked out. Her reputation, damaged
by the recent loss of her SNU certificate, would have been enhanced by such SPR
research. It would also have been the perfect vindication to those who had imprisoned
her in 1944.
LP.
__________________________________
LAST MINUTE HALT TO INFRA RED TESTS
Infra red filming which could have verified the phenomena of William Olsen was
halted at the last minute when the equipment was already in position. The sitting was
in 1956, but full details were only published in Tony Cornell’s 2002 book
“Investigating the Paranormal.” (New York, Helix Press).
The Olsens had agreed to the filming at a home circle of which Cornell was a
member. The Parapsychology Foundation sent a supply of infra red film (not easily
available then in England) and paid for a high-quality tape recorder and other
equipment.( p.309) A good deal of effort went into setting up the camera. But the
host, referred to only by his initials B.C. then changed his mind, fearing that “suppose
something goes wrong and he gets hurt like Helen Duncan did. Infrared light nearly
killed her.” (p.310.)
140
(This claim about infra red and Helen Duncan was made, it should be noted, not by
Tony Cornell, but by the host. So far as we are aware, Helen Duncan never had any
contact with infra red. But the belief that she did, and was injured by it, may well have
been part of Spiritualist folk lore. )
The equipment was accordingly dismantled. Cornell notes that since then thermal
cameras have been developed which permit the movements of a medium in the dark
to be followed by their body heat, but physical mediums have not consented to their
use.
In another chapter, Cornell gives an account of an Alec Harris séance in Cardiff
which he attended with his home circle in 1955. A variety of figures materialised, but
Cornell concluded for several reasons that each was Harris in disguise. For example,
the materialisations were so heavy that the floor boards creaked as they moved. This
11-page analysis should be set against the many positive testimonials to Harris.
[Note- for basic reading on Harris, Guy Playfair recommends “They Walked Among
Us” by Louie Harris (wife) Psychic Press 1980, much shortened from the original
manuscript and “From Materialisation to Healing” by Isa Gray. Regency Press, 1972.]
In 1984, Cornell was among those who sat with a physical medium he identifies only
as Mrs R.G; these phenomena also appeared to be suspicious to him (p.347-352).
This is clearly Rita Goold. She produced phenomena which greatly impressed
Michael Roll, but Roll noted in Paranormal Review 2004 (issue 32, p. 22.).
“In 1983 Prof. Archie Roy and other members of the SPR made a
determined effort to capture these experiments on film - in order to share this
evidence of survival after death with as many people as possible. Sadly this
attempt was thwarted by the medium withdrawing her services just as the
team were about to go in with the infra-red cameras. Everything now rests on
another fully developed materialisation medium coming forward and letting
scientists of the calibre of Roy complete their experiments.”
__________________________________
THE EAGER RESEARCHER?
A former president of the Society for Psychical Research attempted to beget a world
leader or a gifted medium, a new book by another former SPR president has revealed.
Gerald Balfour (SPR president 1906-7) was one of the researchers who investigated
Mrs Willett, (Mrs Winifred Coombe-Tennant) who had approached the automatist
Mrs Verrall in 1908 after the death of her baby daughter. But the child of their union,
Henry Coombe-Tennant (1913 -1989) never fulfilled the imperial hopes.
141
Professor Archie Roy was invited to tell this story by descendants of the Balfours. His
book “The Eager Dead” (Book Guild) is the result.
Because he has had access to the relevant Balfour papers (what is now called the
Kremer archive) he is able to amplify the information recently made available in
Trinity College, Cambridge. This was used in the first article to break the silence
about the newly released Cambridge papers “The Lost Messiah”9
by Massimo
Polidoro in Skeptical Enquirer, September 2003
LP.
Notes by the Way: -
IN THE LATTER DAYS
During the time of Queen Victoria, many intellectuals lost faith in the Christian
gospel, as Alan Gauld described in his classic work “The Founders of Psychical
Research” (1968). It was hoped that the study of psi might provide an alternative basis
for belief. Some of these thinkers are remembered chiefly as Spiritualists, such as
Stainton Moses, while others like F.W.H. Myers are identified with psychical
research.
Spiritualism did not have a good reputation, but psychical research gradually achieved
respect in society. In 1912, a Bishop (Boyd Carpenter) actually became SPR
president. Behind the scenes however an extraordinary scandal was unfolding that
could have permanently discredited the SPR in the eyes of the public.
Winifred Coombe-Tennant (later known as the non-professional medium Mrs Willett)
was already related to Myers. She approached Mrs Verrall, and by degrees came into
contact with others in the SPR leadership. She was, and remained deeply vulnerable
because of the death of her infant daughter. The Society owed (I would suggest)
especially when she continued to practice mediumship with their encouragement,
what we might now call a duty of care to her and to her husband. Instead, one of the
investigators entered into an adulterous relationship with her.
In Archie Roy’s book “The Eager Dead” the private memoranda of Jean Balfour
provide the most intimate perspective on personalities and events. From this we learn
that the investigator, Gerald Balfour eventually claimed to his own wife “she had
persuaded him that love like theirs should have its way:..”(p.333), and indeed Jean his
daughter-in- law, observed “in great passions there is no right and wrong” (p.328)
G. Balfour was one of the intermarried family who greatly influenced the SPR until
about 1930 - and indeed for a generation longer, if we include W.H. Salter and his
wife, who shared their outlook.
9
See: - http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2843/is_5_27/ai_108114809
142
The secret of the affair between the SPR investigator and the medium was preserved
within the Society, like similar affairs in the psychic field. But there was considerable
suffering. Gerald’s wife Betty who was pregnant, found herself abandoned in the
marital bed, without explanation, for eight years. (p.331); Charles Coombe-Tennant,
the husband, became estranged from Winifred; Gerald’s legitimate son, known as Ral,
had to take second place in his father’s heart to another son. (p.327)
It is not clear when the child of the affair, Henry Coombe-Tennant, born 9 April 1913
was told or deduced his true parentage. Upon him pre-eminently the paranormal
hopes rested. “I still think he may do something really important” wrote Salter in
1967 (p.455)” It would be something if he could tidy up religion so as to make it
really alive to most thinking people all over the world..”
But by then, Henry had become a monk and had no need to be concerned further
about “the Plan” (p.520.) or whether his mother was attempting to contact him via
Miss Cummins. (See “Swan on a Black Sea” edited by Signe Toksvig.)
And this brings us to the wider implications of this story. After all, scandals are
nothing new. But what does this case tell us about mediumship? The cross-
correspondence mediums were not just producing erudite allusions which when fitted
together pointed towards the survival of ingenious minds. They engaged in prophecy,
portentous and obscure. Salter wrote in May 1957:
“A very difficult problem of interpretation is connected with ‘psychological eugenics’.
Is the Plan intended to produce a race or breed of ‘children of the spirit’, fitted to
introduce the Age of Peace, not of course a race in the national sense, but a number
of persons with the requisite gifts of mind and character. Or has it a more restricted
personal aim?” (p.447)
In 1910, Mrs Willett sat with Mrs Piper who was visiting England, and who wrote
scripts with some disturbing suggestions (p.273). In them, the claimed communicator
Edmund Gurney, declared his love for her. Mrs Willett found this “incredible”,
though it had already been claimed in one of his communications through her.
Moreover:
“G. asked me to bear another child – to be, as he says Alexander is, in some sense his
child - & to be ‘a playmate’ for Alexander. Considerable portions of Piper sittings
were devoted to urging this.”
Moreover, there was,
“Prediction of Mr Willett’s decease, which it is asserted will occur by an accident,
within a period of time not much greater than a year. (I assured Mrs W. that
predictions of death are rather common in SPR experience, & that we do not attach
much weight to them.”) (p.275)
Sir Oliver doubtless was correct – indeed perhaps he was too sensible, for by 1914 he
was largely excluded from the group interpreting the scripts. (p.317). Mr Coombe-
Tennant was still alive. The affair was in progress.
143
One cannot but be reminded, in reading of a spirit who declares his love for a married
woman, or who urges the disregard for the marriage ties, of the free love deceptions
which ended the expansion of American Spiritualism before the Civil War. The
Balfour group would undoubtedly have regarded themselves as superior beings
compared to the self-confessed Spiritualists, who suffered obloquy for their faith.
The group were often not content any longer with the established religion, though a
glance at 1. Timothy 4.1. might have given them pause. The apostle Paul, who knew a
thing or two about the gifts of the spirit, had reported that “Now the Spirit speaketh
expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to
seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils;”.
In retrospect we can see that some of those SPR leaders involved in script work,
lacked discernment. Unlike Sir Oliver, (a liberal Anglican) and having little time for
the Messiah of scripture, they were vulnerable to the false prospect of “a genius in
fact of high order” (p.276) Ironically, at the same time, Lady Emily Lutyens, sister of
the wronged wife Lady Betty Balfour, was causing distress to the Lutyens family by
her enthusiasm for Krishnamurti as a vehicle for the World Teacher.
Professor Archie Roy has performed a considerable service to everyone by telling this
story with considerable documentation. Not everyone in the SPR believes it is helpful
to psychical research to write such a book. But in view of the importance of the cross-
correspondence to survival research, we do need to fill in the gaps of their
development.
For the historian of psychical research, the story is also essential reading. No doubt
more documentation, not least from the Salter papers, needs to be put in the public
domain.
Serious questions are also raised about the entities purporting to be deceased SPR
early workers. The tendency of mediumship, or the Unconscious, to predict great
things that do not come to pass had been made clear as early as the 1850s. Herbert
Thurston documented it in his book “Modern Spiritualism” which we reprinted in
Psypioneer from March 2007. Not without reason, “The Eager Dead” carries the sub-
title” A Study in Haunting”. Jean Balfour’s memoranda leave no doubt that she too
was sensitive to the presence of entities in the houses where these activities took
place. A question mark must hang over their true identity.
LP.
__________________________________
144
NEW CFPSS PRESIDENT
The Churches’ Fellowship for Psychical and Spiritual Studies has revealed its new
president – on page 13 of the Summer 2008 issue of its Quarterly Review. He is
Alexander Wedderspoon, retired Anglican Dean of Guildford, Surrey, with a
particular interest in spirituality He has been a CFPSS member since 1990. Members
are promised information about the editorship of the flagship journal “The Christian
Parapsychologist” in the next issue.
__________________________________
NEWTON CROSLAND
1819-1899
The Crosland home circle has a significant place in history. As we see in the reprinted
article printed below10
it attracted important early influential Spiritualists and critics
alike.
Their medium, who is only referred to as “a young lady” it is said, possessed
remarkable mediumistic abilities. In ‘The Pioneers of the Reformation’ by Anna Mary
Howitt Watts, published 1883, while refering to her father William Howitt on page
247 stated: -
It was through the kindness of Mr. and Mrs. Newton Crosland, shortly
after our return from Normandy, whilst my father naturally suspended his
judgment, and the chaotic mediumistic condition, to which I have referred,
still existed, that we became acquainted with a lady, a seeress from
childhood possessed of great powers as a “psychic” both on the intellectual
and physical planes; and whose gentle, refined, and benevolent nature
endears her to all who have had the privilege to know her intimately.
Preferring to be one who works for good and truth in secret, and ever
shunning publicity, I feel constrained to speak of this lady- whose
extraordinary experiences, if properly recorded, would form a pendant to
those of the celebrated Seeress of Prevorst-simply under the initials “L. M”.
It is to this friend that William Howitt (“History of the Supernatural,” p.
226,11
vol. ii.) refers, saying that she is “one of the ladies who saw the
apparition of Squire and Dame Children at Ramhurst, in Kent, the
particulars of which are given by Mr. Owen in his ‘Footfalls.’ These
particulars,” he adds, “were also well known to me before Mr. Owen took
up the subject, and discovered, by a visit to Ramhurst and to the British
Museum, in consequence, “facts regarding Squire Children and his family
known only at Ramhurst through the apparitions, the memory of the family
10
LIGHT July 10, 1899 page 271 – 72.
11
The author has put the wrong page number - should read as page 246.
145
there having almost wholly died out.” Amongst the particulars
communicated to this lady by Squire Children's ghost was the date of his
death, which Mr. Owen, after much search in the MS. department of the
British Museum, found to be perfectly correct.
The manner in which we became acquainted with this lady might be
counted amongst “modern miracles.” “L. M.” visiting us occasionally whilst
we were residing at the Hermitage and later on at West Hill Lodge,
Highgate - whither we shortly removed - such remarkable séances took
place, such unpremeditated tests occurred, proving the identity,
incontestably to my father's mind, of spirits belonging to his own family - to
whom the seeress was an entire stranger; - such characteristic messages,
from the spirit of his beloved mother were given - one of which, the first
delivered, has remained henceforth as a talismanic motto for her descendants
-- that he found his doubts to fade away, and his judgment to become fully
established as regarded the existence of communication between the invisible
and the visible worlds.
Newton Crosland at the time of his death on the 18th
May 1899 was living at 29,
Ondine Road, East Dulwich. He was one of the first to espouse and publicly defend
the Spiritualist movement in Britain. He was so sound in his own convictions that he
had little patience with those of different opinions. In Crosland’s last letter published
in Light (May 27th
) this was quite apparent on the question of reincarnation, to which
he was strongly apposed.
His wife also a Spiritualist had achieved some literary reputation under her maiden
name Camilla Dufour Toulmin (1812-1895). Newton Crosland authored an early
book ‘Apparitions’ (1856); it appears that he also wrote an autobiography just
before his death12
. A year later Camilla Crosland authored ‘Light in the Valley’
Subtitled: My Experiences of Spiritualism (1857) this is reprinted by Kessinger
Publishing Co13
. In Mrs. Crosland’s last work ‘Landmarks of a Literary Life’ a
chapter is devoted to the bold defence and elucidation of Spiritualism14
.
William Howitt refers to the Crosland books in his two volumes ‘The History of the
Supernatural’ 1863 page 252 volume 2: -
“Mr. Newton Crosland ‘New Theory of Apparitions,’ and Mrs. Crosland’s
‘Light in the Valley,’ should have careful perusal. They are very important,
12
See book seller Richard Neylon: -
http://209.85.129.104/search?q=cache:a5cIzcadN2QJ:www.antiqbook.com/boox/ney/7922.shtml+App
aritions%3B+An+Essay,+Explanatory+of+Old+Facts+and+a+New+Theory.+To+which+are+added,+s
ketches+and+adventures.&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=1
13
See booksellers: -
http://www.abebooks.co.uk/servlet/SearchResults?an=crosland&sortby=3&sts=t&tn=Light+in+the+Va
lley&x=17&y=10
14
See ‘The New York Times’ December 10th
1893: - http://query.nytimes.com/mem/archive-
free/pdf?_r=1&res=9401E0DE113BEF33A25753C1A9649D94629ED7CF&oref=slogin
146
and only came out too early, the subject then being almost wholly unknown,
except by mere and absurd report.”
Michael Faraday was invited to the Crosland circle to test his unconscious muscular
action theory, but instead he sent John Tyndall (1820 – 1893) later to be Faraday’s
successor. In ‘Fragments of Science for Unscientific People’ 1871 New York D
Appleton and Company, Tyndall published a derisive account of his sitting; he
described the medium as “. . . . a delicate-looking young lady, who appeared to have
suffered much ill health”. In the next issue of Psypioneer I will publish Tyndall’s
account.
Information on Crosland generally is not easy to find, Arthur Conan Doyle in his ‘The
History of Spiritualism15
’ draws our attention to an involvement in the B.N.S: -
The establishment of the British National Association of Spiritualists in
1873 gave the movement an impetus, because many well-known public men
and women joined it. Among them may be mentioned the Countess of
Caithness, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory (widow of Professor Gregory, of
Edinburgh), Dr. Stanhope Speer, Dr. Gully, Sir Charles Isham, Dr. Maurice
Davies, Mr. H. D. Jencken, Dr. George Sexton, Mrs. Ross Church (Florence
Marryat), Mr. Newton Crosland, and Mr. Benjamin Coleman.
_________________________________________
Below is taken from: -
LIGHT June 10, 1899 pages 271-272
A T R I B U T E T O T H E M E M O R Y OF
NEWTON CROSLAND
BY ‘AN OLD INVESTIGATOR’
There are very few Spiritualists living at the present who are fully aware how
much is due to Newton Crosland (who died on May 18th last), as one of the earliest
boldest pioneers of Spiritualism.
At the present time a person may state that he has seen phenomena, and is
acquainted with facts, which prove that communication with the spirit world is
possible, and yet he will not be hooted at, and told he is a madman, or a fool. Of
course I exclude those learned gentlemen who write for some of our popular papers,
and who imagine they possess a monopoly of all knowledge. These individuals are
still so ignorant that they class under one head Spiritualists, fools, mediums,
tricksters, swindlers, impostors, and liars. Such persons, however, are rapidly
passing away, and as the human intellect becomes more aware of the importance of
facts, and less influenced by ignorant prejudice, and pre-conceived opinion, they
15
Page 170 Arno Press edition New York 1975
147
will die out like the Dodo and Great Auk, and will, in the future, be referred to,
merely as remnants of the dark ages.
When, in the year 1855, Newton Crosland first took a prominent part in
Spiritualism, such ignorance and prejudice prevailed, that to admit one's self a
believer in facts which we had seen, was sufficient to justify a medical man in
giving a certificate of our being lunatics. Crosland, however, was not deterred by
these dangers, but was bold enough to give a lecture on the subject at the Mechanics'
Institution, Deptford, on February 27th, 1856.
He shortly afterwards published a small book termed ‘Apparitions,’ which was
the first book on Spiritualism published in England with the name and address of the
author.
The results of this bold proceeding were, Newton Crosland states, that ‘Old
friends pitied and deserted us. Some people would not ride in the same railway
carriage with me. Some would not pass close to our house; they crossed over to the
other side. Others would not engage servants that left our employment. My partner
and clerks left me in a body. My foreign agencies were withdrawn, and at one fell
swoop I lost £600 per annum.’
We read that in olden times men were persecuted, and even burnt, for standing
up for the cause of truth; but only forty-three years ago persecution, as far as the law
permitted, was practised, and by people claiming to be Christians, or by men who
claimed to be scientific, and to guided by facts.
It was on Sunday, December 31st, 1856, that I made the acquaintance of Newton
Crosland. I was asked to dine with him, and to witness such spiritual phenomena as
might occur. Up to that date I had no knowledge whatever of spiritual phenomena,
but having had a scientific education, I was fairly able to judge what could be
accomplished by trick or conjuring, by so-called scientific machinery, and by the
influence of the surroundings. When, therefore, proofs were given me, which could
not have been given except by some power then unknown to science, I realised the
fact that a new world was opened to me, and I resolved that to closely investigate
this should the main object of my future.
Newton Crosland's system of investigation was what may be termed ‘two-fold.’
He endeavoured to learn and also to teach, and in the following manner. Having
found that, besides himself, his wife, and the young lady (the medium), there were
two friends who harmonised with the conditions, he arranged that on one day
(Thursday) each week, this party of five should dine together, and after dinner
should sit for such manifestations, or instructions, as might be given. Nothing was
allowed to interfere with these meetings, and no outsider was permitted to be
present. After a few of these meetings, the party ceased almost to pay much
attention to the movements of inanimate bodies in the room, the most interesting
subjects being the instruction given by our invisible friends, as to the laws which
governed spiritual communications; how mentally and physically we could develop;
how to maintain our health; and the reasons why certain persons were incapable of
even comprehending the importance of spiritual phenomena.
148
During more than two years these weekly meetings occurred, and I cannot find
that since then, any spiritual circle has succeeded in becoming acquainted with the
laws governing these communications, even half as efficiently as was made known
to the special circle at Newton Crosland's. When the same five people sat together
each week, the phenomena that occurred were such as would even now be
considered astounding.
Crosland, however, considered that to keep all such matters limited to five
people was not just; he therefore gave one, and sometimes two days a week, for
strangers, (limited to one or two) to dine and witness the phenomena. No sooner did
a stranger join our circle than the manifestations became very weak, and not until
this stranger had been present several times could we obtain satisfactory results. The
reasons for such failures were clearly explained by our invisible friends. Now, when
we hear of the proceedings of certain gentlemen who believe they are fairly
investigating spiritual phenomena, and succeed in obtaining no results, we are
astounded at the ignorance they display of the elementary laws which govern the
occurrences, of which they set themselves up as competent investigators.
It was at the house of Newton Crosland that Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall had their
introduction to spiritual phenomena. Mr. Hall was at first slightly disposed to teach
rather than to learn, but he soon overcame this weakness, and the manner in which
he helped to make the facts of Spiritualism known prove what an able missionary he
became.
William and Mary Howitt, and Miss Howitt were frequent visitors at Newton
Crosland's, and W. Howitt became a stalwart champion of Spiritualism. The late
Robert Chambers had his first experience of the phenomena at Crosland's house. It
was also there that the late Professor John Tyndall came one evening, professedly to
investigate. His proceedings were such, that he broke all the laws by which the
phenomena occurred, yet phenomena did occur, but he failed to comprehend them.
It was little short of pitiable, to see a man who had the reputation of being infallible
in science, behaving like a spoilt child. He informed us that he was acquainted with
all the laws of Nature, and that a priori he knew that what we stated we had seen
occur, was impossible; he therefore intended merely to devote his attention to
discover how we were deceived, or how we attempted to deceive others.
Numerous other men of science, and note, came to see. The results were as
curious as they were interesting. In some cases the physical manifestations were
powerful, but the visitors seemed really incompetent to comprehend them. Like the
late Sir David Brewster, they would say that the table appeared to rise in the air
without contact, and objects in the room, and at a distance from any one, appeared
to move, but whether or not they really moved, they could not venture to state.
Others again would carefully test the phenomena, and at the termination of the
seance, would volunteer the remark, that there was no use denying the facts, and the
only possible solution was, that invisible beings were the agents who had produced
the phenomena, and given the messages. Then these same individuals, a few days
afterwards, would state that, on thinking over the matter, they had come to the
conclusion that nothing had occurred at the séance which was not easily explained
by tricks, or collusion, and they did not care to repeat their visit.
149
These peculiar attributes of the human mind puzzled us, and we asked our
invisible friends to give us some explanation. Their reply was curious but
interesting: ‘The spiritual nature of many persons is so dormant, that they are utterly
incompetent to perceive, or comprehend, anything of a spiritual nature. They cannot
distinguish the difference between a conjuring trick, and an actual spiritual
phenomenon. Their natures, therefore, being so materialistic, they adept the material
explanation. During their visit here their spiritual nature was partially awakened, but
on returning to their usual surroundings, and companions, it again became dormant,
and the facts they had witnessed ceased to produce any effects. No man can
comprehend anything, when he has not in his nature the capacity to perceive it.’
Newton Crosland bore patiently the insults and ridicule of many of his guests.
This was the more remarkable, as he was by nature a fighter, and disposed to be
somewhat self-opinionated and dogmatic. It was probably these attributes that
enabled him forty-five years ago to stand firm against an opposition, that really
amounted to persecution. In recent years these attributes caused many of his friends
to become cool with him.
I, one of his oldest friends, would receive from him a letter, little short of
abusive, in which he would assure me I was wrong, unsound, and weak in my
reasoning. I would meet him on his own ground, and pelt him with facts and
arguments. He would shortly reply and would confess he had been wrong, and was
much obliged to me for having proved him so.
Newton Crosland was a thoroughly kind-hearted, good man, who would sacrifice
much for the cause of truth. Those who can now state that they are convinced of the
fact of spiritual communication, without incurring the risk of being put into a lunatic
asylum, are perhaps not aware how much they owe to Crosland's bold statements
years ago when mediums were scarce, and when confirmed and experienced
Spiritualists, numbered few more than the fingers on our two hands. He was enabled
to do his work because he had, almost as a daily visitor to his house, a young lady
whose powers, and high teaching, were such as to far transcend those of any
medium since that time. Those who were permitted to receive this teaching, and
witness the phenomena, may consider themselves fortunate.
I was one, and I owe to Newton Crosland's kindness this treasure. I can overlook
his little weaknesses when I remember his many acts of kindness, and self-sacrifice,
to many besides myself.
Several of those who gained their first experience of Spiritualism at Newton
Crosland's, afterwards developed as mediums, and became themselves promulgators
of the facts, so that the results of his work spread far beyond the small circle, that
used to meet at Hyde Vale, Blackheath.
Please note: - “Copyright of all material appearing in LIGHT is reserved to the authors and original
publisher. It may not be reproduced or translated, either wholly or in part, without written permission.
LIGHT is still published by the College of Psychic Studies and you are urged to subscribe.
http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/index.html”
_______________
150
[Note by Psypioneer: - In October 2007 issue16
we published Arthur Ford (1897 –
1971) ‘Makes Psychic History in Australia – FIRST BROADCAST OF SPIRIT
MESSAGES’ Reported by Psychic News April 17th
1937.]
Printed below is taken from: -
LIGHT, November 11th
1937 page 709
WHAT I SAW IN AUSTRALIA
By ARTHUR FORD
AUSTRALIAN and New Zealand Spiritualists are like Spiritualists everywhere these
days, enthusiastic and hard at work. After six months "away down under," I return to
America with renewed zeal. The movement is growing at a tremendous pace, and our
only problem is to keep it clean.
I visited Australia upon the invitation of the Society for Psychical Research, and
all my work was done under the auspices of this society, but the Spiritualists as a
whole supported the effort loyally. The Psychical Research Society of Australia has
among its members a large number of successful and prominent business and
professional people. They maintain splendid rooms and have one of the best libraries
to be found anywhere. The two Secretaries, Mrs. Dorothy Hall and Mrs. Wall, are in
daily attendance and often find it necessary to call upon volunteers to assist in
handling the throngs of people who visit the rooms in quest of information and
literature. I marvelled at their tact and patience.
Preliminary publicity had been well handled and the Press interviews started four
days before I got to Sydney, when the Press in Auckland, New Zealand, printed front-
page interviews with me. These were also cabled to the Australian Press. It was a
good start, but ruined my trip from that point on. I had not told anyone on the ship the
nature of my business, but when we sailed from Auckland everyone on board knew,
and from that time on I was besieged with questions and found that many of the
passengers were intelligently interested.
My campaign in Sydney began with the inevitable banquet, at which the speakers
were Sir Ernest Fisk, head of the Australian Radio Company, and Mr. Eric Baume,
Editor of the Sydney Sun. Mr. Baume requested the first sitting with me and
afterwards wrote an editorial in his paper, which resulted in great interest. The Press
everywhere were generous and absolutely fair in reporting my activities. There was
but one attack, and that rebounded to our good. A certain weekly printed a vague and
general sort of attack, heading it, "Ford Rides Through Australia on a Wave of Mass
Hysteria" . . . I rather welcome newspaper attacks. They can always be turned to good
account. We have the privilege of replying, and our answer is always so much more
intelligent and interesting than the attacks from reporters who know nothing of the
subject. If I accomplished nothing else in Australia, I succeeded in keeping
Spiritualism in the papers almost daily for four months.
16
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.10October07..pdf
151
Apart from my public lectures, I wrote a weekly article for Woman, the leading
weekly magazine in Australia. This magazine also sponsored a weekly radio
broadcast. Mrs. Hamilton, editor of Woman, is the outstanding woman journalist of
the country, and co-operated with me in every way. Not once did she blue-pencil my
articles, or place the slightest restrictions upon what I should say in my broadcasts.
These broadcasts with the beloved Goodie Reeve in charge reached countless
thousands all over the Commonwealth. The mail was enormous and a large part of the
programme was devoted to answering questions about Spiritualism itself. There was
no attempt to answer personal questions or solve problems of that nature. In both
Melbourne and Brisbane the broadcasts went on just as they did in Sydney.
Great interest was aroused when Woman decided to attempt the broadcast of a
public seance from the Assembly Hall. With eighteen hundred people in the hall, the
entire meeting was sent over the air. Messages of an evidential nature were given to
people listening in as far away as five hundred miles. We asked those recognising a
message to telephone in at once and later to confirm in writing their message.
Before the meeting ended, about a dozen calls were received, and within a few
days nineteen out of twenty-one broadcast messages were confirmed and verified. So
interested was the editor in the success of this first attempt at broadcasting a seance
that she personally interviewed several of those claiming messages and wrote an
article about the experiment in her magazine. So far as I know this is the first time
such an experiment has been conducted. Yet, from a psychical standpoint there is no
reason why it should not have been a success. Time and space are purely physical
limitations and do not obtain in a mental and spiritual realm. This experiment was
later repeated with equal success in New Zealand over a Government-controlled
station.
Huge crowds greeted me everywhere. From the first, the halls were packed, and
for the last three lectures in Sydney it was necessary to call for police to clear the
streets and permit ticket holders to enter. My farewell meeting in Sydney was held in
the Town Hall, and three thousand people crowded the place on the rainiest night in
years.
My visit in Melbourne was cut short by illness, which compelled me to seek a
warmer climate in which to recover my health. But the one lecture there was well
received. The chairman was Dr. Huston, Editor of the Harbinger of Light, edited for
many years by the late Brittin Harvey. Dr. Huston is a Congregational minister, and
while editing this famous Spiritualist journal, continues to serve as minister of the
leading Congregational church in Melbourne.
The Spiritualist Church movement in Australia is in bad repute and in a sad state of
chaos. Too many one-man churches and a total lack of organisation with proper
standards have brought about the inevitable result. No one seems responsible for
anything, and consequently the general public looks with suspicion upon what passes
as Spiritualism. There are notable exceptions to this rule, however. There are a few
splendidly organised churches with competent leadership. One of these churches, with
the Rev. Mr. Nicholson as pastor, is heading a group now fighting for legal
recognition. We held a meeting while I was there and laid the plans for a better type
of Spiritualist Church. This meeting was largely attended by leading Spiritualists as
152
well as many orthodox clergymen and several members of Parliament. A Bill is now
pending in Parliament which will give proper recognition to the proper sort of church.
Australia has several fine Mediums, who compare favourably with the best to be
found anywhere. Chief among these is a young man by the name of Alfred Rayner.
His platform work is remarkable and he is refreshingly modest and studious. He
works almost entirely under the auspices of the S.P.R. The other is Mrs. Effie Leish,
of Brisbane. I consider her one of the finest trance Mediums I have ever known. I had
a series of sittings with her and found her amazingly accurate. She is the wife of a
Unitarian minister and is supported in her work by her husband's whole-hearted co-
operation.
One of the gratifying things about my visit to Australia was the discovery that
large numbers of orthodox clergymen are sympathetic to our cause. This was
especially true among the Anglican clergymen. They attended my lectures
everywhere and I came to know many of them. The outstanding liberal minister of
Australia is Dr. Wyndham Heathcote (Oxon.). He is a fearless and outspoken
Spiritualist. I do not know why one is surprised when the clergy evince an interest in
so vital a matter, but one always is. (From The Progressive Thinker, Chicago).
Please note: - “Copyright of all material appearing in LIGHT is reserved to the authors and original
publisher. It may not be reproduced or translated, either wholly or in part, without written permission.
LIGHT is still published by the College of Psychic Studies and you are urged to subscribe.
http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/index.html”
______________
EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN WEBSITE
In the June 200717
Newsletter (3.6) Psypioneer announced a proposed website
dedicated to Emma Hardinge Britten; this announcement was coupled with
Psypioneer re-publishing 100 facsimiles of her first book ‘Six Lectures on Theology
and Nature’ (Hardinge) published in 1860.
Although a two year subscription was paid for the website, it remained under
construction for this period. It was anticipated the revenue from the re-published
Hardinge book would pay for the website to be professionally designed to be easily
updated together with contributions from interested parties, and so providing a more
accurate historical record of this remarkable woman’s life.
Sadly this did not go to plan, only 5 copies of the book to date have been sold at the
cover price; 2 sold at cost price to university/society libraries, and a few
complementary copies given to the British Library, etc.
The subscription for the website has now been stopped and the EHB site has been
removed.
17
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
153
PLEASE
SUPPORT PSYPIONEER WITH BUYING YOUR
BOOKS THROUGH US!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K.,
postage, elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling’ By John Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara
& Ann Harrison @ £7.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-
9514534-6-9. See Psypioneer book review: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860.
Re-Published by Psypioneer @ £14.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of
Modern Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic
Pioneer Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage (please add
20% for airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his
death’ Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is
a small booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
‘Occultism and Spiritualism – a book review by, Stainton Moses originally published
under the pseudonym M.A. (Oxon). Published 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications,
this is a small booklet 10pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
All three Psychic Pioneer Publications £6.00 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
154
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on the
web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian
friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free and direct by
sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to
discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
155
