{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v4_n10_oct_2008.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V4 N10 Oct 2008","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 4, No 10: October 2008
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
Notes by the way…
Spiritualists bearing gifts – Leslie Price 221
Conan Doyle Movietone Newsreel, 1928 – Garth Willey 223
Profiles…
Phoebe Payne Bendit – Laurence Bendit 225
The grave of William Stainton Moses – Paul J. Gaunt 231
The Society for Psychical Research, officers and council for 1882 234
Passing of Mrs. Annie Besant – Light 239
Helen Duncan 1895, 1897 or 1898 – 1956 – Paul J. Gaunt 242
Profiles…
Fred Evans’s Mediumship 245
Books for sale - 249
How to obtain this Newsletter by email 250
=========================================
Notes by the way…
Spiritualists bearing gifts
~~~~~~~~
In Spring 2008, Stansted gave a substantial quantity of early Spiritualist journals and
books to the Society for Psychical Research. Included were some volumes of journals
that have been scarcely touched by historians, such as Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph,
Spiritual Magazine and Human Nature. What might be called the eBay value was
certainly thousands of pounds (even £1000 per volume in the case of “Carrier Dove” of
221
San Francisco.). The SPR decided to add some of these items to their reference library at
Cambridge, but much of the rest was sold. Some Council members received lists.
What King Tut’s tomb contents were for Egyptology, this collection could have been for
the study of Victorian Spiritualism: As telescopes bring into focus distant objects, so old
journals do for history. They fill in the personalities and events of the past, recalling
much that cannot be found in books. It goes without saying that no accurate and detailed
history of Spiritualism can be written without reference to such periodical volumes.
Without them, history is superficial, often perpetuating misquotations and fallacies.
But a bound volume may be more, or less, than a name in a list. On the plus side it may
include a signature trail of former owners, like the bound volume of “Spiritual Scientist”
at CPS which belonged to Madame Blavatsky, or the volumes of “The Spiritualist”, once
in the possession of GWCSL which Kate Cook had owned. There may be extra items
bound in the main one, like propaganda leaflets with the Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph.
On the negative side, there can be issues missing, as Besterman found when he
catalogued the SPR copies of “Spiritual Magazine”; similarly there is an issue missing
from the CPS copy of “Spiritual Notes” volume 2.
The assessment of an old periodical volume therefore takes time and personal
examination. Ideally, a decision on its future home, if discarded, would also be a careful
one. A number of libraries have incomplete sets that could be usefully supplemented. The
great advantage of library ownership is that at least in principle, the volume might be
accessible to a wider community of scholars. When a volume is sold into private hands, it
is largely lost to scholarship for the foreseeable future- excepting that of the purchaser.
Not all libraries are equal however. To convey volumes to a library like the Harry Price
collection, in London for example, while it is threatened with closure, would be doubtful.
And even Cambridge can be loftily indifferent to attempts by SPR members to find out
about the society’s own books.
Our friends in the SNU and SPR have therefore between them lost an opportunity to
advance the study of the pioneers considerably. It is not as bad as the burning of some
Nag Hammadi Gnostic documents for firewood, but certainly it shows that the reverence
which Psypioneer has for the records of old workers, and which is indeed reflected in the
sale room prices, is not universally shared in the psychic field. For a brief moment in over
a century, these volumes emerged into daylight, and then once more they were lost to
sight. Future students of the SNU education scheme, visitors to Stansted Hall, anyone
seeking to know the pioneers better, may share in our deep sense of loss.
Leslie Price
_______________
222
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
The Movietone Newsreel
~~~~~~~~
In October, 1928 one of the first Movietone Newsreels ever made featured Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle speaking on his writing of the Sherlock Holmes stories and of his firm
belief in Spiritualism. It was recorded in the rose gardens of his Sussex home,
Windlesham, by William Fox for the Fox-Case Movietone and the Fox Film Corp.
The 10 minute clip is now available on our host’s website www.woodlandway.org
(Woodlands Sanctuary Foundation Inc.)
A still photograph from the scene of the shoot*
The Movietone clip was released for viewing in America in May, 1929 and Sir Arthur’s
presentation was said, in a New York Times review, to be superior to that of George
Bernard Shaw and the King of Spain’s interviews because of the easy flow of Sir
Arthur’s words. A second release was made after ACD’s death in 1930, and another
version was reissued in 1974 by Blackhawk Films. Woodlands Sanctuary is pleased to be
able to bring to you the original 1929 version, obtained in DVD format.
223
The envelope which contained the Conan Doyle family photographs*
* From the Richard Lancelyn Green Collection - now held by the Portsmouth City
Council following RLG’s death in March 2004. Three photographs plus the Wallet
were shown in an article by Michael W Homer and Christopher Roden in the 1995
Volume 6 issue of “ACD, The Journal of the Arthur Conan Doyle Society”. The
handwriting on the Wallet is that of Lady Conan Doyle.
Garth Willey
_______________
224
PROFILES…
PHOEBE PAYNE BENDIT
By Dr Laurence Bendit
Introductory Note by Psypioneer:
It is now forty years since the passing of the clairvoyant Phoebe Payne. Yet her
work with husband Dr Laurence Bendit lives on, and is cited for example by Davina
Thomas in a paper on “Telepathic Thought-forms” in “The Christian Parapsychologist”
June 2008.
By kind permission of Lisette Coly, vice-president of the Parapsychology
Foundation, New York, we are reprinting this tribute to Phoebe which appeared in their
Newsletter, September-October 1969, vol. 16 No. 5.
______
Phoebe Daphne Payne, also known as Mrs. Laurence J. Bendit, died on April 13,
1968. It might be more accurate, in view of the beliefs she and I shared, to say that her
body died and that she then found herself in a world where, unless she and many others
are self-deceived, she would find herself very much at home. For, from birth seventy-
eight years before, she had lived consciously in two worlds: the usual one of physical life,
and that other which, for lack of a better term, we call “psychic.” Had she not been shy,
shunning publicity, she would probably have been known to a wide public for her very
accurate and objective clairvoyance. As it was, she worked quietly among small groups
of people, specializing as she went on – first, in medical matters concerning both body
and mind, and later in an endeavor to understand the deeper aspects of life through the
mechanism of pure, unconditioned mind, for which perhaps the best term is the Sanskrit,
manas.
Although born clairvoyant, she was never primarily interested in ESP except as a tool,
an instrument she could use. She cared far more for life as a whole, looked at against an
essential, spiritual background, than for any form of ESP. Indeed, when some of her
friends tried to stop her from marrying on the grounds that it would interfere with her
perceptivity, she stated categorically that if she could not be at once clairvoyant and live a
full human life, her psychism could not be worth much and it could go by the board. (In
fact our marriage made not the slightest difference to her powers in any direct way, while
- perhaps I flatter myself - she as well as I gained a very great deal by our association.)
A brief account of her life will explain this passage from her first book, MAN'
S
LATENT POWERS, published in 1938:
To be born clairvoyant is an odd thing, because one is quite unable to assess ordinary
life without its counterpart of extra sensory perception. I do not remember a time
225
when the visible world did not play into and through another world. I had no idea
where one ended and the other began: they were both to me ordinary and natural,
and they belonged together. . . . The world of the living and of ordinary affairs wove
itself across the pattern of the so-called dead and their environment. It was therefore
logical enough that, as a child, I should find it extremely difficult to understand what
people meant by death, or why they were gloomy about the subject. . . But being
accustomed to the presence of dead people is only a small part of the psychic's life,
the threads of which naturally weave themselves through the commonplace
happenings of everyday life.
Early Life
She was born in 1889 in the East End of London, at that time a very poor area with
many slums, where her parents had to live, since John Payne, her father, had a post in the
Thames Iron Works. It was a bad atmosphere for a sensitive child, so that, apart from the
fact that her parents were at that time very poor, she had a difficult start. I do not know
how soon the family moved away, but her father - of mixed Southern Irish and French
Huguenot stock in which the Irish temperament predominated, as it did in his daughter –
was a restless person, moving from job to job, from house to house, dragging his
unwilling but very loyal wife – an Englishwoman trained as a teacher – and his small
daughter with him. It was one of Phoebe's lasting bitternesses that, going to a dozen or so
schools in as many years, she felt she had never been properly educated. When she was in
her teens, her father refused to send her on to higher education and insisted in her
working in his various businesses, where he disregarded her health as much as her or his
wife's wishes or needs. (He was not deliberately unkind quite the contrary. But he seemed
to have no slightest regard for his womenfolk at any time until he changed in his later
years.)
He, however, did not reckon with his daughter’s intense search for knowledge and
philosophical understanding, which she pursued relentlessly all through her life. Where
her “psychism” is concerned, it was not until she was nineteen that she realized anything
at all about it.
For Phoebe life was very puzzling and inconsistent at least among human beings,
while animals, plants, even stones and pebbles seemed full of life - and behaved dec-
ently. Indeed, a dull pebble used to hold her interest for hours, as it had wonderful
patterns and scintillations of force which made it an object of unending fascination.
Discovery of Psi Ability
She realized early that the inner world she used to find in the quietness of her bed
was double. In one part she was in control: it did what she wanted. We label this today
the realm of fantasy which is the playground of children of all ages and both sexes. The
other world, however, was not so kind. It was in its way as harsh and indifferent as is
the physical world. It existed in its own right and was inhabited by its own self-existent
entities and objects. She could only affect it, if at all, in the way we affect the physical
226
environment in which we function. This was the “psychic” world in its objective sense,
the “astral plane,” or whatever we may choose to call it.
Then, one day, when she was nineteen she discovered that she was not like other
people. She was, on a Sunday morning, at the City Temple, a famous non-conformist
hall in central London – she went to all kinds of churches and societies in her quest for
enlightenment – when her attention was drawn to a group of three women who were
vigorously singing a hymn with the rest of the congregation. She was much amused by
the fact that they were neither on the floor of the chapel nor in the gallery, but hovering
in mid-air between the two. Then she guessed, since nobody else seemed to pay any
attention to them, that she was the only one who saw them. It was a tremendous shock:
she said to herself that she must be insane or somehow badly unbalanced, and for weeks
lived haunted with this fear.
Then, as often happens, help came. She met a little woman who was a medium and
who, for no apparent reason, insisted that Phoebe note her address in case she should
ever want to talk to her. This Phoebe did reluctantly and for some weeks ignored the
invitation. At last she went to see the woman, who earned a living by giving sittings to
enquirers in the usual way of spiritualists. Mrs. Neil, half gypsy by heredity, and also a
devoted Swedenborgian, got Phoebe to understand a little about this faculty which was
so much disturbing her. She realized that she was perhaps unusual in having it so highly
developed, but it was something she could learn to make use of as a direct means of
observing things outside the scope of the ordinary senses. It was not very long before
the roles of pupil and teacher were reversed. There came a time when, as Phoebe
seemed to open up much latent knowledge, Mrs. Neil told her that it was now her turn
to learn from her disciple. The two became fast friends and later shared a house until
the older woman died.
Her investigations now took a new line. Phoebe went to many séances and tried to
understand what was happening. Seemingly by chance, she became the secretary of the
Stead Bureau, where. W. T. Stead's daughter had established a center for mediums, and
where endless students and sensation-mongers came and went. Here she gained much
experience in the tactics of the séance, and benefit in leaving her mental field
“unconditioned” and of the mediums, whom she liked as people and recognized to be
for the most part entirely sincere and honest individuals. She was never a spiritualist,
though she recognized the value of spiritualism as a potential stepping-stone for the
serious seeker toward a deeper understanding of life. Furthermore, she never worked in
trance. If anything, she was more, not less, conscious of physical things while using her
clairvoyance.
Work at CPS
She was also a contemporary of Mrs. Garrett's at Hewat McKenzie's College of
Psychic Science. Here she got into trouble, for she discovered that if she thought certain
things clearly enough and, as it were, projected her ideas into the circle, sooner or later
the medium would pick them up and begin to talk about them.
227
She became sufficiently sure of this to tell members of a group with which she
worked that she would get the medium to produce the dead fiancee of a man who was a
bachelor and had never had a fiancee. They were so surprised when, at the next seance,
precisely this happened; it reached the ears of the director, who thereupon summoned
her and told her she must not do things like that. To this she replied that in a college
one was entitled to try and learn and should not be expected to be a passive listener.
She was then given the alternative of doing as she was told or of leaving: she left.
Interest in Theosophy
Sometime during this period she discovered Theosophy by coming across Annie
Besant's book THE ANCIENT WISDOM, and was filled with wonder and relief.
Theosophy seemed to answer her questions and coincided with what she already knew.
Eventually she joined the Theosophical Society and, though she was never caught up
in the attempt of many of its members to make a creed of certain articles of faith, she
remained in it and worked with various of its groups for the rest of her life. She found it
to be a useful forum where people of like mind could meet and discuss the deeper
aspects of life; it had an excellent library; it was world-wide; and a place where even a
stormy non-conforming petrel could find a field for work and experience.
This matter is relevant in that, after her time at the Stead Bureau, she was given a
chance of doing serious work, using her now much more stabilized and differentiated
clairvoyance along medical lines. In the Theosophical Society she met doctors and
others interested in the unrecognized aspects of health and disease. It was not long
before she began to make a small place for herself because of the accuracy of her
diagnostic work – work which was often checked against X-rays or operative findings
after she had made her own assessment. At the same time she was her own hardest
critic. She was always on the watch for mistakes, tried to confirm her findings, accepted
awkward questions when put to her in a real attempt to clarify and not merely to try and
trap her, and she was always able to say “I don't know.” Untrained as a scientist –
which, as we used to point out to her, was a uncluttered with preconceptions – she had
the scientific attitude to a marked degree where her work was concerned.
During this time she had a curious experience. She was trying, with one or two other
observers in the room, to study clairvoyantly the lung tissue of a patient, using what has
been falsely called “X-ray sight” to do so. The description is false because X-ray
pictures are flat shadows varying in density with the tissue through which the rays pass.
But Phoebe “saw” the object under scrutiny with a three-dimensional vision
comparable with ordinary sight. During this work on the lung, a woman who had no
business in the room came in. The director of the experiment was angry. The intruder, a
sensitive if thick-skinned woman (contradictory as this may seem), responded in like
manner. Phoebe was caught in the blast of the explosion and found, to her surprise, that
the little piece of lung (“as large as a postage stamp”) she was studying began to
enlarge like a figure in Alice in Wonderland until it was “the size of a tea-tray.” Then it
occurred to her that if she could so alter her perceptions as to allow this, she could also
228
stop it: and at her command it stopped so that she was able to examine things as if she
were using a powerful microscope. Indeed, the similarity with the microscope is close
to what happened, if one can imagine a “zoom” objective bringing what is seen to a
higher and higher pitch of enlargement. She found eventually that, in the same way, she
was able to slow time down, so that a rapidly moving object seemed to stand almost
still for as long as she needed it.
Her practice grew. She would often find the cause of obscure pains for which
surgeons could find no “real” cause, and which were due to the slight “lesions” which
osteopathy could cure; and so on. Or, she might be asked to go to a haunted house or to
cope with somebody who was in trouble and fear over uncontrolled “psychism.”
Marriage
From 1937 onward we began our personal close cooperation, although we were
married only late in 1939. I first noticed her in about 1930, when a group, part medical
and part amateur, met to discuss the subtler aspects of health and disease. There was
another member of the group with a reputation for clairvoyance, but I soon found that
he provided an answer to every question, and that this often did not make sense; and he
had no sense of humor. Phoebe, on the other hand, would often say, “I don't know,”
followed perhaps by “I must try and look that up”; and she had a sometimes caustic
sense of humor. It was however, not for some years that we became known to one
another in any personal way.
It is at this point that her attitude to herself and her abilities show most clearly. If I
say that she was not interested in these abilities as her own possession, this is true. She
had no sense of her own importance about them; and indeed, so reserved was she that in
years to come, I often had to press the point that if she had noted something important –
let us say a message from what seemed to be a dead person – it ought to be passed on
even if it embarrassed her to do so. On the other hand, she realized that she had an
instrument at hand which she should use for good purposes when it could be of value.
She had a very strict code of ethics about these things.
Some may ask why she did not lend herself to more laboratory test work. Actually
she did a limited amount both when she was trying herself out (the records have been
lost) and when we were working with the Society for Psychical Research. But she
preferred to use her energies on people's problems rather than on satisfying curiosity,
however legitimate, from a scientific point view. She felt that any real scientist who
considered the mass of evidence already available and failed to accept that ESP had – in
Professor McDougall's words – been proved “beyond reasonable doubt” could not be a
true devotee of science, but only of the cult of a “scientism”, which masqueraded as
science. Further, she felt that many investigators made things difficult for such as
herself by what she called their “mincing machine minds”: set to cut up and destroy
rather than to find out.
229
Together we wrote a book, THE PSYCHIC SENSE, in which my psychiatric
knowledge was brought together with hers. As we worked we developed a technique by
which our minds almost functioned as one. We had some amusement from friends who,
thinking themselves clever, would say, “You, Phoebe, wrote this bit,” or “This is
obviously Laurence,” as they were usually wrong. She also worked with Kenneth
Richmond, once a pupil of Jung's, and after his death, she worked with Mrs. Jung (we
both had high regard for Jung and his wife). The result was that, while she retained her
capacities, she would, as she said, “be able to pick them up and put them down again”
just as she would a magnifying glass or a telescope. Her interest in life in general
became more intense, and gradually focused on the means of perception which, as
mentioned earlier, could come from learning to use manas as the point of perception.
Two Levels of Psi
This led us to differentiate between two levels of “clairvoyance”:
One we called “perceptivity,” which referred to the overall sensitivity which the
individual achieves only as a result of deep search for Reality: a Spiritual or Essential
quality. The other was perception, covering a whole range between physical sensation
through ‘metasensory’ perception - such as that of people who hear the sound of
meteorites far off in space before air waves can possibly have reached them - into extra-
sensory perception, which is where the average mediumistic type of person' operates.
These two kinds of cognition originate, one at the physical level, the other at the deeper
or essential, and “move” towards one another in some cases, so that they blend; but this
does not of necessity occur, especially where the sensitive is more concerned with ESP
and its phenomena than with ultimate truth.
This philosophy rested on a clear sense of a difference, usually obscured even
among parsons, of the radical difference between Spirit and soul or psyche – also called
colloquially “mind.” Without this the quest for understanding must reach a dead end –
as seems to be the case in some parapsychological departments, where, because, as one
eminent worker wrote, “one cannot bring Spirit into the field of Science,” things have
gone dead for years. It is too easy to dub things as “spiritual” or an entity as “a spirit”
when they are nothing of the kind. Indeed, my wife was rash enough to dispute with
Jung over what he described as “a spiritual experience,” saying that it seemed on the
contrary to be a purely “psychic” one. Both were right, if Jung had had a “peak
experience” arising out of the Gestalt which came from a rather commonplace psychic
vision; the experience itself was not spiritual, what Jung brought into it was.
Man was, to her – as to Saint Paul, a fact many pastors have forgotten – a Monad in
which Spirit or pneuma, psyche or soul, and soma or body were essential parts. And,
while we have considerable experience of the last two, our search should be basically to
know the first. So it is logical that she felt that psychism and psychical research were of
secondary importance only: useful as a means, but not an end.
230
A corollary to this view of man as a threefold being was that she felt that a
difference should be made between survival and immortality. To her, it was clear, the
psyche survived the death of the very obviously mortal physical body, but her
experience showed her that the elaborate patterns of the earth-mind gradually faded as
time passed after physical death. However, true individuality, that of the spirit or
essence of man, existed beyond the realms of space-time as we know them, and beyond
also the curious sort of space-time of the psychic world, where (as we know from
dreams if not otherwise) both space and time are plastic, not fixed as in the physical
world. Hence only that which was no subject to space-time seemed to be the really
immortal aspects of man.
To the very last Phoebe Payne Bendit kept a healthy scepticism even about her own
powers. Her words were “The more we know, the less we seem to know.” And one
wishes others thought the same, as only so can we develop upon the mysteries of life
and death.
_______________
THE GRAVE
Of
William Stainton Moses
1839 - 1892
“A joint founder of the Society for Psychical Research”
William Stainton Moses died on Monday 5th
September 1892, at the residence of his
mother in St. Peter’s, Bedford.
Moses is interred at the old Bedford cemetery, which was established in 1850, and
opened in 1855. Through gross neglect,1
the grave itself is very difficult to locate and is
not readily visible unless the actual location is known. The original site is a large plot
containing a family grave stone, and a large Celtic Cross structure standing in excess of
six foot, marking the earthly resting place of William Stainton Moses. The whole Moses
plot is edged with stone, but is now totally entwined with ivy and other creeper- like
growth, so the grave cannot be seen from the various paths and access points.
The funeral took place at noon on Friday, September 9th
and was officiated by the Rev.
W. Hart-Smith, rector of St. Peter’s Church Bedford. It was reported in two Bedford
1
See also the neglected grave of Emma Hardinge Britten. See Grave News: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/18.PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
231
papers, Psypioneer has already published the obituary of “Bedfordshire Independent,”
September 1892.2
The grave monument is in good condition and its inscription clearly reads: -
IN LOVING MEMORY OF
REV.D WILLIAM STAINTON, M.A..,
ONLY SON OF WILLIAM AND MARY MOSES
BORN AT DONNINGTON LINCOLNSHIRE, NOV 5TH 1839
DIED AT BEDFORD SEPTEMBER 5TH 1892
KNOWN AS M.A. OXON
FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF THE LONDON SPIRITUALIST ALLIANCE
A JOINT FOUNDER OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
EDITOR OF ‘LIGHT’ AND FOR 18 YEARS ENGLISH MASTER AT
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE SCHOOL LONDON
“OUT OF DARKNESS INTO HIS MARVELOUS LIGHT”
“HE BEING DEAD YET SPEAKETH”
~~~~~~~~
It is interesting to note on the grave stone, “A joint founder of the Society for Psychical
Research”. Attention was drawn by Leslie Price in the first issue of Psypioneer (May
2004) that the “SPR was conceived by Spiritualist”3
this however is not generally stated
by the ‘Society for Psychical Research’ (S.P.R.) today. On the S.P.R., website ‘History of
the S.P.R.’4
under the heading ‘The Founders’ there is no mention of Stainton Moses.
Dawson Rogers briefly informs us that William Stainton Moses5
: - ….. “had been
associated with him in the old British National Association of Spiritualists, and in the
founding of the Society for Psychical Research”… Rogers continues: - …“for when he
suggested the formation of such a society to Professor Barrett they both felt that Mr.
2
See page 14 http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
3
See, PP1.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP1.pdf
4
See, A Brief History of the S.P.R: - http://www.spr.ac.uk/expcms/index.php?section=29
5
Taken from the First Assembly of the London Spiritualist Alliance (L.S.A.) meeting on Tuesday 22nd
January 1889, page 50 of LIGHT.
232
Stainton Moses was the man to seek. At his urgent instance, as well as by the request
of Professor Barrett, Mr. Stainton Moses came up specially from the country and
moved the resolutions which practically founded and formed the society.”
The S.P.R.6
drew much of its original foundation and enthusiastic support from the
Officers and Council of the ‘British National Association of Spiritualists’ (B.N.A.S.).
The S.P.R., officers and council in 1882 consisted of a total of 22 men, of which at
least 12 were or had been B.N.A.S., officers and council members!
There were 29 officers and council positions available, of which at least 16 of these
were occupied by B.N.A.S., officers and council members!
The B.N.A.S., officers and council members as cited below are taken from ‘Spiritual
Notes’ volume 1. July 1878 – June 1880, these members held these positions at the
S.P.R: - Treasurer and Secretary, 12 of the 18 council seats, and 2 of the 8 vice
presidents positions!
Stainton Moses held two positions, Vice-President and Council member. He resigned
from the S.P.R., in 1886.
In the following article I have cited the involvement of Spiritualists that had held
important positions in the ‘British National Association of Spiritualists’, and the
positions they held as the first officers and council of the ‘Society for Psychical
Research’.7
Paul J Gaunt
~~~~~~~~
6
The SPR was constituted on February 20th
, 1882, and its council appointed.
7
List of SPR Officers and Council for 1882 taken from page 1 volume 1 of the SPR proceedings 1882-3.
233
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1882
PRESIDENT
HENRY SIDGWICK.
VICE-PRESIDENTS
ARTHUR J. BALFOUR, M.P
REV. W. STAINTON MOSES – B.N.A.S., Council. Experimental Research Committee,
Hon Secretary, Vice President, General Purposes Committee
PROF. W. F. BARRETT
HON. RODEN NOEL
JOHN R. HOLLOND, M.P
PROF. BALFOUR STEWART
RICHARD H. HUTTON
HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD – B.N.A.S., Council, Finance Committee, General
Purposes Committee
COUNCIL
PROF. W.F. BARRETT
FREDERIC W.H. MYERS
EDWARD T. BENNETT – B.N.A.S., Council, Experimental Research Committee,
Séance Committee, General Purposes Committee
FRANCIS W. PERCIVAL – B.N.A.S. Hon. Member, Experimental Research
Committee
WALTER R. BROWNE
FRANK PODMORE – B.N.A.S., Council, General Purposes Committee
ALEXANDER CALDER – B.N.A.S., President, Finance Committee, General Purposes
Committee
C. LOCKHART ROBERTSON, M.D
WALTER H. COFFIN – B.N.A.S., Council, Experimental Research Committee
E. DAWSON ROGERS – B.N.A.S., Council, Vice President, Séance Committee, Soirée
Committee, General Purposes Committee
234
DESMOND G. FITZGERALD – B.N.A.S., Vice President, Experimental Research
Committee, Séance Committee, Soirée Committee, General Purposes Committee.
PROF. BALFOUR STEWART
EDMUND GURNEY
MORELL THEOBALD – B.N.A.S., Council, Finance Committee, Auditor
CHARLES C. MASSEY- B.N.A.S., Council, Vice President
HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD – B.N.A.S., Council, Finance Committee, General
Purposes Committee
REV. W. STAINTON MOSES – B.N.A.S., – Council, Experimental Research
Committee, Hon Secretary, Vice President, General Purposes Committee
G. WYLD, M.D – B.N.A.S., – Vice President- Experimental Research Committee-
Finance Committee, General Purposes Committee
HON TREASURER
MIORELL THEOBALD – B.N.A.S., Council, Finance Committee, Auditor, General
Purposes Committee
SECRETARY
EDWARD T. BENNETT – B.N.A.S., Council, Experimental Research Committee,
Séance Committee, General Purposes Committee
____________
The B.N.A.S., (founded in 1873)8
must have been a substantial platform and of high
influence for the founding and launch of the S.P.R., in 1881-2, with its influential
membership, which in itself did not hold any religious or philosophical dogmatism,
and its members being from all walks of life. The B.N.A.S., held, as indicated above,
an Experimental Research Committee, as well as a Séance Committee.
This short report is from Spiritual Notes9
July 1879 page 168, and gives us some
indication as to their Psychical Research: -
8
See page 3: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
9
Spiritual Notes July 1878 – December 1880 inc, Spiritual Notes gave way to a new weekly journal
LIGHT, the first issue was published on January 8th
1881.
235
The Research Committee of the B.N.A.S: - VERY little has of late been heard of the
work done by this Committee, although the Committee has nevertheless been pursuing its
researches with considerable activity. This circumstance is sufficiently intelligible when
it is considered that the Committee has undertaken a very difficult problem – one, indeed,
which is considered impracticable by many experienced Spiritualists, viz., that of
obtaining undeniably abnormal phenomena, explicable only on a spiritual or psychical
hypothesis, in presence of a circle not always strictly constituted by the same sitters, and
fairly representing the scientific and critical element of investigation. It is to be borne in
mind, also, that the Committee take note only of phenomena which are absolutely not sus-
ceptible of any rational explanation, outside of the above hypotheses, on the part of the
sceptical inquirer. The conscientious honesty with which this programme is adhered to
merits the respect of all truth-seekers, and has already obtained a wide recognition
amongst the more earnest and careful section of investigators, in whose eyes this quality
invests the Research Committee with the authority which is so requisite in the case of a
body forming the connecting-link between the candid and sceptical inquirer and the
Spiritualist. The Committee has latterly held some séances with Mrs. Fox Kane, whose
mediumship, however, in its present form, does not appear to be well adapted for the
purposes which the Committee has immediately in view. More recently they have had a
series of seances with Mrs. Elgie Corner (Florrie Cook), which séances are still being
continued from week to week, and will no doubt aid in throwing some further light upon
the conditions which are necessary for the exercise of the various forms of mediumship,
even if they do not result in any absolute demonstration. Dr. Stanhope Speer and Mr.
Meugens have recently joined the Committee.
The primary meetings/conferences were held in rooms of the B.N.A.S., at 38, Great
Russell Street, London in early 1882 which resulted in the formation of the S.P.R.
The S.P.R., website ‘S.P.R. History’ gives no recognition to any of the names
mentioned in this article in association with B.N.A.S., or, the cooperation and help it
must have received from the B.N.A.S., It states: - … “founded in London in 1882 by a
group of prominent scholars”. The names that follow e.g., Henry Sidgwick, Frederic
Myers, Edmund Gurney, Rayleigh, Balfour family, etc., cannot entirely be credited as the
actual or joint founders of the society as much of that work was undertaken before their
arrival. Although they shortly took control of the new society, no credence or
acknowledgment is given to the great value of the work of the major Spiritualist players
in the foundation of the S.P.R., It cannot be denied that the S.P.R. had substantial roots in
the B.N.A.S.
_______________
236
Supplementary Summary
Since completing this article Leslie Price has brought my attention to a similar article on
the break down of Spiritualists in the first S.P.R., council and their officers, carried out by
John Fraser Nicol in 1972. This research/paper was part of a book review of Alan
Gauld’s “The Founders of the S.P.R.”10
; S.P.R., members will be able to read this on-
line.11
My original research was directed on similar ground as Nicol’s, but it was difficult to
establish who were actually Spiritualists, as Leslie points out in his article12
: - We should
also be aware that the term “Spiritualist” carried various meanings, often wider than
today, and is not incompatible with the terms “scholar” or scientist”.
For example I did not feel comfortable in calling William Barrett13
a Spiritualist, so I
decided to use the names of individuals who not only held membership at a Spiritualist
Association but held prominent positions as Council and Officers of the B.N.A.S.
1) Fraser Nicol states that 68% of the first S.P.R., council were Spiritualists; he
includes Barrett as a Spiritualist. Nicol records that there were a total of 19 council
members including the president (Sidgwick) in the 1882 S.P.R., council. Nicol included a
(Spiritualist) lady Mrs. George Boole who resigned14
because she was the only female on
the council. Mrs. George Boole’s name is not on the 1882 S.P.R., council list, Fraser
Nicol does not include on his list of 1882 S.P.R., council Prof. Balfour Stewart, who was
a council member, possibly Stewart replaced Mrs. Boole.
2) Nicol also states that the council elected a Spiritualist Hon. Secretary (Bennett)
also a Spiritualist Hon. Treasurer (Theobald).
3) Finally he states that the council elected a Vice-Presidency of whom 50% were
Spiritualists.
In comparison to my research: -
1) Fraser Nicol claimed 68% of the S.P.R., council members were Spiritualists, this
shows that there were 13 Spiritualists and 6 Non-Spiritualists.
10
Published by Routledge & Kegan Paul London 1968, Schocken Books, New York 1968
11
Proceedings Volume 55, Part 205, March 1972
12
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP1.pdf
13
SPR members can read on line, Sir William Barrett (1844 – 1925) by Brian Inglis. Journal of the SPR
Vol. 55, No. 810
14
The council minutes for September 27, 1882
237
In these figures he has counted in as a Spiritualist Mrs. George Boole although she is
not shown on the 1882 official list and had resigned. He has not balanced this with
Prof. Balfour Stewart who is on the official council list, but not on Fraser Nicol list of
council. Also he has added the 1882 S.P.R., President Henry Sidgwick to the council
figures.
I have shown that there were 66.7% B.N.A.S., members on the S.P.R., council,
meaning that there were 12 B.N.A.S., and 6 Non-Spiritualists.
2) Both accounts are in agreement Hon. Secretary and Hon. Treasurer both
Spiritualists and B.N.A.S.
3) Fraser Nicol states that 50% of Vice-Presidents were Spiritualists, meaning that
there were 4 Spiritualists15
and 4 Non-Spiritualists, but he does not list them.
I have shown that there were 25% B.N.A.S., members as S.P.R., Vice-Presidents,
showing that there were 2 B.N.A.S., and 6 Non-Spiritualists.
__________
An overall percentage of all 29 S.P.R., Council and Officers positions would be: -
Fraser Nicol 65.5 % Spiritualists showing 19 Spiritualists 10 Non-Spiritualists
Paul J. Gaunt 55 % B.N.A.S., showing 16 B.N.A.S., 13 Non-Spiritualists
These two avenues of research into the unrecognised Spiritualist influence played in the
formation of the S.P.R., and its early councils and officers are still awaiting recognition in
the history of the “Society for Psychical Research”
It is interesting to note that after the early resignation of Mrs. George Boole in 1882 it
would not be until 1901 when another woman was to serve on the SPR council: - Eleanor
Sidgwick.
In next months issue we will publish “The Work of Mrs. Henry Sidgwick” which is her
obituary notice published in “LIGHT” 6th
August 1936.
Paul J Gaunt
_______________
15
I would suggest Nicol included Hon. Roden Noel as a Spiritualist.
238
PASSING OF MRS. ANNIE BESANT
Introductory Note by Psypioneer:
In the August issue16
we published ‘When the Devil went down to Dublin: Annie
Besant in Ireland’ by Wendy E. Cousins. Although the LIGHT article below17
largely
follows the usual sources on Mrs Besant’s life, it seems useful to note her attitude to
Spiritualism. Only fragmentary references to her investigations of mediumship in the
1880s have ever been published.
______
Mrs. Annie Besant, President of the Theosophical
Society, died at Adyar, India, on Wednesday,
September 20th, in her eighty-sixth year.
MRS. ANNIE BESANT has ranked for nearly half a century as one of the greatest
woman orators in the world, if not the greatest. Her earlier years were troubled and
turbulent. She was associated with Charles Bradlaugh in a cause which brought her much
public obloquy; and for a time she was one of the brilliant band of militant intellectual
Socialists – the Fabians – which included George Bernard Shaw, Sidney Webb and
others, who still survive, as well as many equally famous who have passed on.
It was through her journalistic association with W. T. Stead that she was first brought
into direct touch with the Theosophical movement. She had been for some years engaged
in an enquiry regarding the phenomena of Spiritualism when, sitting in the Fleet Street
office of the National Reformer (of which she was joint editor with Bradlaugh),
"brooding over her disappointments in the search for Truth, she suddenly heard a Voice
say to her, `Are you willing to give up everything for the sake of learning the Truth?'"
She did not know who it was that spoke, but she answered, "Yes, Lord."
A few days later (says Mr. C. Jinarajadasa), W. T. Stead, then Editor of the Review of
Reviews, sent her Madame Blavatsky's Secret Doctrine to review and "the moment she
read the work it was as if a long lost synthesis of truth suddenly flashed out in her mind.
She asked for an interview with the author, and from that first sight of Madame
Blavatsky, Annie Besant's whole life was changed. She separated herself from her
Secularist friends and also to some extent from Socialism," and became in turn Madame
Blavatsky's disciple and successor. In 1907, she was elected President of the
Theosophical Society – a position she retained to the end, although latterly there were
16
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.8August08..pdf
17
LIGHT September 22, 1933 page 595.
239
sections of the Movement, chiefly in America, which did not acknowledge her
leadership.
In November, 1893, Mrs. Besant landed in India for the first time and a new and
important chapter of her life began. She went as President to the headquarters of the
Theosophical Society at Adyar, Madras, but gradually she identified herself more and
more with the people of India and ultimately became a leader in the India Home Rule
movement. When the great war broke out in 1914, she was suspected by the Government
and was interned for a few months. "No statesman in Britain nor the British officials in
India seemed to realise," writes Mr. Jinarajadasa, "that Dr. Besant was not an agitator
working up an agitation, but rather a far-sighted leader who saw the need to open up a
festering wound whose poison would otherwise permeate the whole organism." On being
liberated, she was elected President of the National Congress; but she speedily lost her
popularity with the masses in India by opposing Ghandi's non-co-operative movement.
With some of the moderate Indian politicians, in 1925, she prepared the Commonwealth
of India Bill, which was introduced into the British Parliament, and which prepared the
way for the efforts now being made to formulate a constitution for India as an integral
part of the British Empire.
Occasionally, Mrs. Besant came to this country on a lecturing tour and always she
drew great audiences whenever she spoke and whatever her topic, for she was an orator
of the first order, but in the closing years of her life India was her home.
Mrs. Besant wrote books sufficient to crowd a moderate-sized library. The full list
shows 326 works up to 1923, omitting those written in collaboration with others. Most of
these deal with Theosophy and allied subjects the most important of all, judged by their
influence, being probably The Ancient Wisdom (1897) and Esoteric Christianity (1901),
in which Theosophical beliefs and their relation to Christianity are explained in terms at
once clear and attractive.
Unlike Madame Blavatsky and some other Theosophists, Mrs. Besant never attacked
Spiritualism and never minimised the importance of its teachings. As exemplified in her
book, Four Great Religions, her aim was to fund points of agreement in belief and
practice and to show how, in her view, all could be merged in the Theosophy Philosophy.
She herself claimed to have a highly developed power of clairvoyance, which she
devoted not only to the study of the various phases of reincarnation (pre-birth and post-
death) but also to the elucidation of scientific problems, as in her book, Occult Chemistry
(1908).
Mrs. Besant held high rank in the Co-Masonic movement; she was Honorary Scout
Commissioner for all India; and, in recognition of her work for education in India, the
degree of Doctor of Letters was conferred on her when the Hindu University was
established.
Although she was never directly associated with them, Spiritualists will join in doing
honour to her memory. She approached Theosophy through Spiritualism; many,
240
including the present writer, have been induced by the stimulus of her books to examine
the foundations on which belief in Survival and supernormal phenomena rest, and so
have been led through Theosophy to the firm ground of Spiritualism.
G.H.L18
______________________
"THINK AND SPEAK KINDLY OF EACH
OTHER"
The following extracts from an address delivered by Mrs. Besant to the members of
the London Spiritualist Alliance on October 21, 1909, indicate her attitude towards
Spiritualism. They are taken from LIGHT of October 30 and November 6, 1909:
"I recognise on all sides brethren in the various schools of thought, all of us aiming at
a single goal-the spiritualisation of the humanity to which we all belong; and there is one
thing I may say here because I say it so constantly outside – almost always when
lecturing to public audiences, almost always when referring to the life after death – we
are bound to remember with gratitude the work done in the past by those of your leaders
who faced ridicule, obloquy, and antagonism of every kind, in bearing testimony to the
reality of human individuality on the other side of death; and the Spiritualistic method
remains the only one that can be used against the materialist, the sceptic, the man who is
not willing to go into the subject unless he can be furnished with prima-facie evidence for
the survival of mankind after death.
"Over and over again, when dealing with the materialist and knowing he will not
receive any evidence except that which will appeal to his senses and which he can gain
without a long course of study and training, I have recommended such a one to attend a
carefully chosen Spiritualistic seance in order that, breaking down the barriers of
materialism, he may be able to listen to teachings which he scoffs at, until, to some
extent, he is convinced. Yet, as many of you know, Theosophists hold that there are
certain dangers in connection with Spiritualistic investigation, but, on the other hand, that
is also recognised by the most thoughtful and earnest Spiritualists, and they – quite as
18
GHL: this is George Henderson Lethem, who was appointed Editor of LIGHT and took up his
duties on April 20th
1931. GHL took over from David Gow, who had occupied the position of Editor
of LIGHT since January, 1914.
Mr. Gow agreed to remain as Advisory Editor on condition that his successor should be a trained
journalist with a knowledge of, and sympathy with, the subject of Spiritualism. This was the case
with George Henderson Lethem.
241
much as we – warn people who go along this line of investigation of the dangers which
beset the pathway of investigators – dangers against which it is necessary they should be
on their guard.
"In bidding you farewell for a time I would ask all who are our Spiritualist brethren, as
well as those who are Theosophists, to forget all antagonism, to think and speak kindly of
each other, remembering there are many ways to knowledge and each man must choose
his own way for himself."
Please note: - “Copyright of all material appearing in LIGHT is reserved to the authors and original
publisher. It may not be reproduced or translated, either wholly or in part, without written permission.
LIGHT is still published by the College of Psychic Studies and you are urged to subscribe.
http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/index.html”
______________________
HELEN DUNCAN
1895, 1897 or 1898 – 1956
Much reference has been made in the pages of Psypioneer to Mrs. Victoria Helen
McCrae Duncan (née MacFarlane). Recently in the August 2008 issue we published “The
First Duncan Trial” in 193319
. In 2006-7 Leslie Price undertook took the exasperating
task of challenging the erroneous information given on the various websites especially
the B.B.C. History, starting with “We Shall Fight Them on the Web Sites”20
and also
doubting that Helen Duncan was responsible for the passing of the Fraudulent Mediums
Act, 1951 (See February 2008 issue “Is Mrs Duncan the victim of a logical fallacy?”21
).
[For more information on Helen Duncan use our Psypioneer search engine at Psypioneer
News.22
]
Robert Hartley’s book was reviewed by Psypioneer23
, and is available through our
“Books for sale”
It’s now Psypioneer’s turn to ask our readers: -
19
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.8August08..pdf
20
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.6June06.pdf
21
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.2February08..pdf
22
Use Psypioneer search engine – Helen Duncan: - http://www.woodlandway.org/
23
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
242
WHO is RIGHT?
INWHATYEARWASHELENDUNCANBORN?
Helen Duncan’s daughter claims that her mother was
born in 1895
Two worlds of Helen Duncan - Gena Brealey 198524
25th
November 1895
And also Mary Armour, a Helen Duncan biographer25
However some websites and authors state that Duncan
was born in 1897
The official Helen Duncan web site26
25th
November 1897
B.B.C.History27
25th
November 1897
Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia28
25 November 1897
ClanDuncanSociety–ScotlandU.K.29
25th
November 1897
Who was Helen Duncan? Helen Duncan article by our Helper Vi Kipling 30
1897 (Violet
Kipling F.S.N.U.) 1897
Survival After Death Org .UK (ISS) 31
1897
Hellish Nell - Last of Britain’s Witches- Malcolm Gaskill 200132
25th
November 1897
The Strange Case of Hellish Nell: The True Story of Helen Duncan and the Witch Trial
of World War II -Nina Shandler33
1897
24
With Kay Hunter, Regency Press London 1985
25
Helen Duncan (1895-1956): my living has not been in vain: the true story of Helen's life and work.
London: 2000.
26
http://www.helenduncan.org.uk/helenstory/witchcrafttrial.html
27
http://www.bbc.co.uk/history/scottishhistory/modern/oddities_modern.shtml
28
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helen_Duncan
29
http://www.clan-duncan.co.uk/hduncan.html
30
http://www.psychics.co.uk/psychics/helenduncan.html
31
http://www.survivalafterdeath.org.uk/mediums/duncan.htm
32
Published by Fourth Estate 2001 see also page 133: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.6June06.pdf
33
Da Capo Press 2006
243
And other writers claim that Duncan was born in 1898
The Trial of Mrs. Duncan - The Old Bailey Trial Series 194534
25th
November 1898
Helen Duncan the Mystery Show Trial - Robert Hartley 200735
25th
November 1898
Medium on Trial - Manfred Cassirer 199636
25th
November 1898
Regurgitation and the Duncan Mediumship - Harry Price 193137
November 25th
1898
Occultism & Parapsychology - (Edited by Leslie A. Shepard) 199138
1898
The Story of Helen Duncan – Alan E. Crossley 197539
November 25th
1898
One would perhaps consider that the official Helen Duncan web site or the Clan Duncan
Society would be correct in establishing the subject of their websites correct details -
1897? Well, at least Duncan’s own daughter would know her mothers birth date - 1895?
Surely the trial notes would be correct - 1898? The authors would have no doubt checked
Duncan’s birth certificate in their book researches? And then, the encyclopaedias must
surely be correct?
Paul J. Gaunt
SO WHICH YEAR WAS HELEN BORN?
______________________
34
Jarrolds Publishers (London) Ltd. 1945 Edited, with a foreword by C.E. Bechhofer Roberts
35
HPr (Publishing) 2007
36
PN Publishing, Stansted Hall Stansted, Essex. 1996
37
Bulletin of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research 1931, see also page 147: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.7July07..pdf
38
Encyclopedia of Occultism & Parapsychology - (Third Edition), Gale Research Inc 1991
39
Arthur H. Stockwell ltd, Ilfracombe, Devon. 1975
244
PROFILES…
FRED EVANS'S MEDIUMSHIP
BY THE EDITOR of The Golden Gate40
______
Introductory Note by Psypioneer:
The name Fred Evans was pre-eminent in slate-writing in the 1880’s onward.
Later, Stainton Moses introduced the name “Psychography” to categorise Independent,
Direct or Spirit Writing.
Fred P. Evans was born in Liverpool, England on June 9th
1862. One of his great
grandfathers was Robert Owen,41
one of the first British converts to Spiritualism by Mrs.
Maria Hayden in 1853 (London).
In 1884 Evans investigated Spiritualism, his introduction was with the well known
American test medium Mrs. Ada Foye. After developing his mediumship Evans gave his
first professional séance in February 1885, then on Sunday 21st
June 1885 he
demonstrated his mediumship before the “Society of Progressive Spiritualists” in San
Francisco at Washington Hall where his spirit guide produced over thirty messages
between a pair of sealed slates in the hands of a committee chosen by the audience.
The report below42
outlines his mediumship prior to Evans and his wife embarking on
their trip to Australia. The couple left for Australia in August 1888, arriving in Sydney on
Thursday 19th
, they were welcomed by the N.S.W. Association of Spiritualists. The
following day they continued on to Brisbane arriving Sunday evening where they were
received by the “Brisbane Psychological Society”.
On January 3rd
1889, Mr & Mrs Evans continued with their tour arriving in Melbourne on
January 10th
1889 where he gave his last séance on May 10th
1889. The couple then left
for Sydney on the final leg of their tour on May 13th
and in early September of this year,
Mr. and Mrs. Evans returned home to San Francisco.
The above information has been taken from “Psychography Marvelous
Manifestations of Psychic Power through Fred P. Evans” by J.J. Owen 1893 The Hicks-
Judd Co San Francisco. Evans’ tour of Australia will be articled in the next issue.
______
40
“Golden Gate”, San Francisco, Cal. Editor of this paper I believe to be J.J. Owen.
41
“Mrs. Hayden’s visit to England in 1852 -3 and the conversion of Robert Owen” See: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.10October06.pdf
42
Taken from “LIGHT” 22nd
September1888 page 472
245
Mr. Evans first saw the light in Liverpool, England, June 9th, 1862. At the age of
thirteen he went to sea, where he rapidly learned the duties of a sailor. Bright, active,
brave, and shirking no duty, he never failed to win the good opinions of his shipmates
and officers. He followed the sea for seven years, the last two as quartermaster in the
steamship service of this coast, and under Captain Morse, of the steamship, “Alameda,”
with whom he and his wife sail to-day for Australia.
Having had quite enough of the sea, in 1884 Mr. Evans sought for and obtained
employment as a clerk in the office of Lang and Ruggles, brokers, of this city (San
Francisco). It was during this time that his attention was first attracted to the
phenomenal phases of Spiritualism. In company with an old shipmate, he dropped in
one evening at Washington Hall, where Mrs. Ada Foye was holding one of her
remarkable rapping and ballot test séances. Mrs. Foye often sees and describes spirits,
giving names and other evidences of identity, independent of any ballot.
On this occasion she saw and described a spirit who came to Mr. Evans and his
friend, whom they identified as a former shipmate lost at sea. From that time Mr. Evans
sought to know more of the facts and philosophy of Spiritualism. He was told by
various mediums that he possessed mediumistic powers of a high order, especially for
the phase for which he has since become famous. He commenced sitting for that
development, devoting a half hour each evening, sitting in a darkened room. He sat
faithfully for over three months, when becoming discouraged at what he considered a
hopeless case, he was about to abandon the effort, when suddenly the power came to
him. He was soon forced into public work, and resigning his clerkship he announced
himself as a medium for independent slate-writing.
This occurred in February, 1885, since which time Mr. Evans has resided
continuously in San Francisco, practising his gifts with steadily increasing success and
satisfaction, until now, as he takes his leave for a season, there was never so great a
demand for his services. About two years ago he was united in marriage with Miss
Agnes Hance, herself a fine trance and test medium.
On a few occasions Mr. Evans has gone out into neighbouring towns to display his
gifts, and once, in the spring of 1887, under the management of the writer, he visited
the principal cities of Southern California, giving seances before large audiences, and
under conditions to render deception absolutely impossible. His method of conducting a
seance in public is as follows: - The audience is called upon to name a committee of
three to go upon the stage and prepare and hold the slates. And this they are expected to
do without any interference or assistance of the medium. After the slates have been
thoroughly cleaned and sealed together in pairs, and while in the hands of the com-
mittee (one pair in the hands of each member thereof), Mr. Evans sometimes (not
always) asks permission to touch the slates for the purpose of connecting or imparting
his magnetic forces therewith. In our experience with him we have often found the
writing to come between the slates, or on the under side of a single slate, without any
contact with his hands. The messages written between slates before a public audience,
and under the conditions named, are usually written in a patchwork style, from twenty
246
to thirty in number upon each slate, and addressed to various persons in the audience,
most, if not all, of whom are strangers to the medium.
In this, as in other phases of psychography obtained through this medium, we speak
wholly from our own experience. During the past three years we have held not less than
one hundred séances with him for experimental work. We have had every opportunity
for careful investigation. His psychographic control, “John Gray,” and his artist
assistant, “Stanley St. Clair,” (the latter of whom we have found to be a veritable
personage and artist who “passed over” from New Orleans fifteen years ago), are to us
as real beings, in all save their physical presence, as the medium himself. “John Gray”
claims to have been a sailor boy, like the medium, who passed to spirit life about fifty
years ago, while endeavouring to save the lives of persons in a shipwreck. He has given
us the names of the vessels in which he sailed, dates, &c., which we have not yet
attempted to verify. If we had, we doubt not we should have found them correct. The
third and last member of his band is a beautiful female spirit , who styles herself
“Camelia.” She appears to be a silent worker, who comes simply to afford proper and
needed elements for the spirit battery.
In our Christmas edition of 1886, we published a slate containing messages in
twelve languages, including Chinese, Hebrew, Greek, &c. This slate, which has gone
into history, (having been reproduced in all the leading Spiritualistic journals in the
world, as well as in many secular papers) was written under the hands of the editor of
this journal and his wife, in the presence of Mr. Evans, but without the contact of his
hands, in the full light of day, the slate; to our certain knowledge containing, previous
to the writing, no mark upon its surface.
We have obtained many pictures in the course of our experiments-one, especially, a
fine likeness with autograph of Father Pierrepont, taken for, and in the presence of,
Professor Alfred Russel Wallace; and also writing in many colours, without the use of
material crayons-in one instance thirty-three shades of colour being produced within
slates prepared by us, and which never for a moment left our hands.
About eighteen months ago, “St. Clair” informed us that he was experimenting with
a process whereby he hoped to be able to produce, through Mr. Evans's mediumship,
permanent pictures of mortals and spirits upon slates. He has now succeeded, and the
result, as given below, is well worth mentioning.
Our last seance for experimental work through Mr. Evans was held on Wednesday
evening, the 9th inst. The wife of the writer was present. At this séance we obtained
twelve slatefuls of messages and pictures, including some very interesting work by “St.
Clair's” new process. The artist was delighted with the result, and says that he shall be
able to excel, by this process, all of his former efforts in spirit picture making.
Upon the under surface of two slates placed upon the table which we first held
singly, edgewise, between our hands, and which never for a moment left our hands or
sight, a number of pictures were produced, which seem to be as permanent material
247
upon which they appear. A space some four inches square in the centre of each slate has
been subjected to some glazing process, in which glazing, not upon its surface, the
pictures appear to be photographed. Upon one slate there are four faces, and upon the
other three. Two of the pictures on each slate are good likenesses of the writer and Mrs.
Owen. Then appear two spirit faces, one of which is that of “John Gray,” and the other,
which is quite dim, is given as a spirit sister of Mrs. Owen. Around the edges of the
glazed surfaces are a number of private messages, thirteen in all, given mainly in close
imitation of the writing of the persons from whom they purport to come.
Upon nine of the slates is a private letter to us, running continuously from one slate
to another, from “John Gray.” He seemed to be in the humour for a friendly good-bye
chat. Speaking of “St. Clair's” work upon the slates, he says: “You remember some
eighteen months ago, he promised to give you pictures on slates prepared with some
kind of paint or varnish. Well, we have just made the second experiment, and find that
that we shall soon improve on it. The slate is first sensitized by some process known to
St. Clair, and then the intended pictures are photographed on. Mortals can have their
pictures taken alongside of their spirit friends, just the same as you have received to-
night. We can have your face reflected on the clouds, have your spirit friends near it,
and photograph them both.” It is certainly very remarkable.
In our experiments with this medium we have learned that not all investigators are
able to obtain like satisfactory results. There is something in the aura of some
investigators that seems to make it difficult for their spirit friends to come close enough
to the medium's psychographic control to enable him to get their thoughts clearly. But
even in such cases it is rarely, if ever, that writing is not produced independently, which
establishes the fact of invisible intelligence. We have often obtained the writing upon
slates in our own hands, when the medium was many feet away, the writing appearing
in perfect facsimile of that of certain of our spirit kindred, who have, by practice
become proficient in the art of spirit writing.
Investigators, who would meet with the best results with this medium, should bring
to his séances a hospitable, kindly feeling, and a sincere desire to know the truth. Once
satisfied that the slates have been thoroughly cleaned, they should not seek to interrupt
the spirits in their work but patiently wait the signal to raise or open the slates. If you
bring your own slates, suffer the medium to place hands upon them if he so desires. He
may not need to touch them.
The writing is done in the full light, and open and above board, with not the
slightest chance for collusion of any kind. There will be no lack of opportunity for the
fullest and fairest investigation to all who come in the right spirit. If unjustly
suspected, or wrongfully accused, Mr. Evans is quick to bring the séance to a close.
He is reasonably proud of his gifts, and jealous of his honour. He will brook no
unfairness.
Mrs. Evans, who accompanies her husband to Australia, is a fit companion for such
a medium. She is a fine trance test medium, as her sisters of the colonies will soon
have abundant opportunity to learn. We are quite sure that our Australian psychic
248
scientists will find enough in this medium to give them food for thought for many a
day. We hope and trust they will treat him kindly, and return him to us in due time.
We have need for him here for many years to come.
Saturday December 1st
1888 Stainton Moses publishes in “LIGHT” under the heading
“Notes by the Way”: - The usual fate has overtaken Mr. Fred. Evans on his arrival at
Brisbane. He has been “exposed” …………….. To be continued in the next issue.
Please note: - “Copyright of all material appearing in LIGHT is reserved to the authors and original
publisher. It may not be reproduced or translated, either wholly or in part, without written permission.
LIGHT is still published by the College of Psychic Studies and you are urged to subscribe.
http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/index.html”
_______________
PLEASE
SUPPORT PSYPIONEER WITH BUYING YOUR
BOOKS THROUGH US!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
‘Helen Duncan The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-
0-9553420-8-0.
See Psypioneer 3.11: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K.,
postage, elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’
By John Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison @ £7.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
249
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-
9514534-6-9. See Psypioneer book review: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £14.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer
Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’
Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
‘Occultism and Spiritualism – a book review by, Stainton Moses originally published
under the pseudonym M.A. (Oxon). Published 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this
is a small booklet 10pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
All three Psychic Pioneer Publications £6.00 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on the
web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends
for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an
e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
250
