{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v5_n1_jan_2009.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V5 N1 Jan 2009","mylang":"de"}
Archived by
Garth Willey
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price
Volume 5, No 1: January 2009
EST 2004
Highlights of this issue:
Stansted donation – SPR auditor declines to investigate 2
Bewitched by the Duncan Myth – Leslie Price 2
Helen Duncan - Percy Wilson, M.A. 4
Duncan Memoir Reprinted 10
Conan Doyle biography reconsidered – Garth Willy 11
Joseph Maxwell - Renaud Evrard 21
Emma Hardinge Britten - Chasing down Emma – Marc Demarest 28
Aksakof's paper on Kardec - Dr. Alexander Moreira-Almeida 29
Recent Papers – A new feature in Psypioneer – Leslie Price 32
Mark Twain and Earliest Spiritualist fiction - Gerald O’Hara 33
Quiz answers- December 08 34
Books for sale 36
How to obtain this Journal by email 37
=========================================
PSYPIONEER NEWSLETTER
is now
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Logo and heading designed
by Jamie Gaunt
1
STANSTED DONATION - SPR AUDITOR
DECLINES TO INVESTIGATE
The SPR auditor has been asked by Leslie Price to examine the arrangements under
which rare Spiritualist material donated to the Society was acquired by an SPR council
member. The invitation was sent on 11 December. The auditor has long familiarity with
SPR procedures.
However in his reply of 27 January, the auditor indicated that he did not consider it worth
his detailed investigation.
“Having discussed this matter with the Society's officers it is the general view that
the transactions you mention were innocently made without intention to defraud the
Society. The items were judged to have a limited market and were priced
accordingly. Given the limited extent of the figures involved it is not felt, nor would
Charity Commission or Companies Act guidelines require, that any adjustment to the
accounting records should be made, as the sum is not a material amount.”
Historians would respond that the Victorian journals have a limited market in the same
way that diamonds have a limited market - they are so expensive that few can aspire to
buy them! The absolute determination of the SPR council member who purchased them,
not to return them, leaves no doubt that some at least recognise their importance.
Meanwhile, on 27 December, a volume of “The Spiritualist” sold on eBay for just over
£100. This low price was possibly due to the holidays, and contrasts with over £200 for
the last volume of “Two Worlds” sold there.
__________
BEWITCHED BY THE DUNCAN MYTH
There is considerable testimony that Mrs Duncan produced ectoplasmic phenomena, as
we were reminded in the recent documentary Unexplained on UK’s Channel 4, when
Denise Iredell spoke. It is also reasonable to suppose that her arrest in 1944 was
orchestrated by MI5. Dr Robert Hartley has deployed much evidence about this in his
recent book1
, starting with the diary of Guy Liddell which recorded that the MI5 effort
began in December 1941, just after the Barham seance.
Thus some revision of the 1944 trial verdict ought not to be impossible. The progress of
the Shot at Dawn campaign, which is concerned with First World War events, shows how
1
See: - Books for sale in this issue’ Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’.
2
even distant verdicts can be officially reconsidered. But there are a number of problems
with the HD pardon campaign. It has not received much backing or leadership from the
official Spiritualist bodies, and it has associated itself with historically dubious side
issues.
This can be seen from the web site2
which claims to be the official pardon site, and which
plays up a link with Winston Churchill which is undocumented, except for one well-
known query he wrote about the cost of the 1944 trial. One might have hoped that new
evidence would emerge from a book3
by Michael Colmer, who has researched the case
for ten years, but this is not the case.
Colmer claims “His personal notes of appreciation along with other similar memorabilia
were destroyed in a house fire at the Duncan family home...” (p.38).
This is the first claim I have seen of such notes. On the same page Colmer states “it is
more than just probable that Churchill knew of Helen Duncan and her work.” But such
notes if they ever existed would have left no doubt that he did.
Another opportunity to substantiate the claim is lost in relation to Mrs Duncan’s time in
Holloway Prison. “And many senior Spiritualists who were close to Helen report that it
was not only prisoners and staff who made pilgrimage to the dread Holloway Gaol. .So
too did some of her other more notable sitters, including Britain’s Prime Minister Sir
Winston Churchill himself.” (p.87).
But who are these senior Spiritualists? Clearly they did not include, for example, Maurice
Barbanell or Percy Wilson, who really were senior Spiritualists and actually knew Mrs
Duncan very well. And indeed, Mrs Duncan’s daughter knew nothing of any Churchill
connection. She was proud of her mother’s work, wrote a book about it, but said nothing
about Churchill. Could this be because the Churchill tradition is a more recent
development, in response to the present campaign?
Some other historical statements in the book do not give confidence. Mrs Duncan, we are
told, was at one point threatened with a charge of Conspiracy “which, in wartime Britain,
carried the ultimate sentence of death by hanging.” (p.84). Actually the charge
considered was conspiracy to defraud, which was not a capital crime.
Later events are also unclear. (p.131) “Spiritualism’s governing National Union actually
withdrew her diploma at one stage”, but did they ever restore it? The story of the SNU
and Mrs Duncan has yet to be fully told.
“Helen’s family and many Spiritualist friends say that during his visits to her cell Prime
Minister Churchill made promises of making amends to Helen. It is a fact that in 1951 the
2 See: -Official pardon site for Helen Duncan: - www.helenduncan.org.uk
3 Book by Michael Colmer: - http://www.churchillswitch.com/.
3
damning 1735 Witchcraft Act which had been used to imprison Helen was finally
repealed.”
Who are these unnamed friends who said nothing for so many years? There is no
evidence that Churchill played any part in the campaign to change the law, which
succeeded in 1951, before he returned to power.
We are also told that “some four years later in 1954 Spiritualism was officially
recognized as a proper religion by formal Act of Parliament.” As previously noted in
Psypioneer June 2006, we have not been able to identify what Act is referred to in what
seems to be a Net myth.
The self-proclaimed official HD campaign then has not brought forth the new data which
are desired. Once more, a better line might be found in Robert Hartley’s book. He was
the first to draw attention to the diary entry of Guy Liddell in 1941 that MI5 after the
Barham séance was beginning an investigation of Mrs Duncan. The files of that
investigation, which probably continued until she was jailed, and included the planting of
an agent in her circle, may explain what really happened.
LP.
_____________
HELEN DUNCAN
1897 – 1956
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: -
Roy Stemman in his, Paranormal Review 4
reported on the T.V documentary “Tony
Robinson and the Blitz Witch” which was screened on Channel 4, 29 December 2008.
Roy referred to some quotes which were used in a letter that I sent to Psychic News, and
published in P.N., 24 February, 2007.
th
These quotes were primarily refering to the sinking of the H.M.S. Barham in 1941;
these were taken from a lecture given in November 1958 by former S.N.U.,
president (1950 – 1953)5
Percy Wilson, M.A.
Below is published in full, what Percy Wilson said in his address about the medium
Helen Duncan, followed by a discussion on his lecture. This lecture was part of a
conference organised by the College of Psychic Science at Brighton on November
4
http://paranormalreview.co.uk/RoysBlog/tabid/127/EntryID/14/Default.aspx
5
The story was covered in P.N, issue January 17th
2009 which stated that Percy Wilson was S.N.U.,
president in 1958. But the S.N.U., president in 1958 was Charles Quastel according to the S.N.U. diary.
4
28th
– 30th
1958: - “The Problem of Survival”; principal speakers were Brigadier
R.C. Firebrace, Percy Wilson and Professor H.H. Price6
.
Taken from Light vol. LXXIX No. 3438 - Spring, 1959.
EVIDENCE FOR SURVIVAL
The Historical Significance of Physical Mediumship
By Percy Wilson, M.A.
The next case I wish to draw your attention to is one within my own experience:
there are many more but I think it is time to reveal some of the things of this particular
experience, relating to Helen Duncan's mediumship, during the last war, and leading up
to her trial. The story so far as I am concerned began with an invitation to me to have
lunch with Maurice Barbanell. During that lunch he asked me if I had heard what had
happened at a Helen Duncan seance at Portsmouth the previous evening. He told me
that he had had a message that morning to say that at this seance a figure had appeared
of a sailor with a capband H.M.S. Barham; and the information was given that the
Barham had been sunk in the Mediterranean but that the fact was not to be announced
for three months because of the political and military situation. I went back to my
office. I was then what you might call a senior official of the Ministry of War
Transport. I was in a detached building, Devonshire House, whereas the main office
was in Berkeley Square House; so I deliberately went along to Berkeley Square House
to ask some of my senior colleagues and remember, the Ministry of Shipping was part
of the Ministry of War Transport whether they had heard of the sinking of the Barham
in the Mediterranean. No one had heard, but one of them said he would make an
enquiry; and he told me later that afternoon that it was not known in the Ministry of
War Transport. That was on the day after the message had been given in Portsmouth.
Well you will find, as I found, that in fact the news of the sinking of the Barham
was only released three months later and the explanation was given that it was not in
the public interest to reveal the fact at the time. You can imagine the consternation and
feeling in Portsmouth when this piece of rather colourful information had appeared at a
seance with Helen Duncan. In passing I would have you observe that although this was
a physical seance, it contained evidence at the same time, rather straight evidence, of
the survival of the particular boy who came back to speak to his mother.
Nothing further happened until, I think it was about a year later, Mrs. Duncan paid
another visit to Portsmouth, and gave another seance. In the course of that she was
seized, and a white sheet, so called, was seized but was never heard of afterwards; and
then the prosecution under the Witchcraft Act of 1735 began. The defence under that
Act was really conducted from my house, where Mr. MacIndoe stayed with me.
6
Wykeham Professor of Logic, Oxford
5
At the beginning of the trial I got a message from two of my sons, who were then
undergraduates in Oxford, and had visited the Cowley Spiritualist church. There they
met a man called Spencer who asserted that at the Cowley Works of Morris Motors in
the previous year a young man had made a bet that the next time Mrs. Duncan
appeared at Portsmouth she would be arrested. That bet was taken, the side stakes
were given to a third party, and when Mrs. Duncan was arrested the bet was paid. It
transpired that the principal witness on behalf of the police against Mrs. Duncan was
the uncle of the man who had made the bet.
I immediately saw the value of this testimony and with a lot of last-minute effort we
managed to get Mr. Spencer up to the Old Bailey during the trial; but for some reason he
was not called as a witness. I would ask you, however, if you ever read the record of the
trial, to look at the concluding remarks, after the conviction, of the Chief Constable of
Portsmouth, which seem to me to shed a lurid light on the circumstances of that trial. The
only conclusion I can come to is that the police and the naval authorities did not want
Mrs. Duncan about in Portsmouth before D-Day or during D-Day.
Séance During Trial
During the trial one of my sons, Geoffrey, acted in the court as a messenger for the
defence, and when it was half-way through, after prosecution evidence had been
given, we arranged (it was a Friday afternoon) that he should collect Mrs. Duncan
straight from the court at four o'clock, take her to Holborn Viaduct station, bring her
through to Wimbledon and then by taxi on to my house. This he duly did. She had had
no opportunity of going anywhere else from the court on the way. And I had my usual
home circle gathered there. So, we gave Mrs. Duncan a good tea, I don't advocate
this before a physical circle, but there was a reason for it on this occasion because we
included some really good red jam in it, thanks to the regurgitation theory of Harry
Price. Shortly afterwards, we went upstairs to my own seance room and held a seance.
I was seated next to the curtains of the cabinet, and there was a red light behind me on
the ceiling. (I could not see it but it was shining behind me, so that my eyes were not
inhibited by it.) In the course of the seance Mrs. Duncan stood up and ectoplasm
poured in streams, in ribbons, from her nose and her mouth, on to her massive bosom,
curled up in a ribbon on her bosom, and dropped to the ground; and then, as she was
standing with her arms akimbo, I suddenly saw it leap up two ways to her hands. I
was within a yard of her with a light above my head and I saw everything that
happened. Shortly afterwards the whole mass of ectoplasm disappeared in an instant. I
could not tell you when: it was there and then it was not. It just disappeared.
Now that evidence was sufficient for us to conclude that it was safe, even in the hard
circumstances of the court at the Old Bailey, for Mr. Loseby to offer the judge and jury a
personal demonstration when he opened his evidence for the defence. That offer, as you
will remember, was refused.
Those are the circumstances which I want to put on record now, relating to the Helen
Duncan prosecution. I think they tell a story of their own, and I need not dot the i’s or
cross the t's.
6
Now these testimonies, all that I have quoted, are so positive that I suggest that
only three conclusions are possible. (a) The facts are substantially as I have related
them, or were related by the witnesses, or (b) the people testifying were unworthy of
credence, which is precisely the criterion, I may remark, which Professor Sidgwick
himself, in his first presidential lecture to the S.P.R. on its foundation, had postulated
as being one of the desirable positions to get into. Here are his words: "We must drive
the objector into the position of being forced either to admit the phenomena as
inexplicable, at least to him, or to accuse the investigators either of lying or creating,
or of a blindness or forgetfulness incompatible with any intellectual condition except
absolute idiocy".
Or (c) that the people who deny the testimonies are like the Irishman who was brought
before a judge on a charge of stealing a kettle. Three witnesses gave full personal testimony
that they had seen him steal the kettle; whereupon he said to the judge, "Surely, Your
Honour, you are not going to convict me on the evidence of three witnesses? I can produce
fifty who did not see me steal that kettle!"
DISCUSSION
Following the Lecture by Mr. Percy Wilson
Mr. Lucian Landau: Now I would like to turn to Mrs. Duncan as I had a certain
experience with that lady. To start with I think that Mr. Wilson made a mistake in
giving her red jam for tea and then having a red light in his seance room. It would
have been better to have given her some bright green jam! However, I have sat with
Mrs. Duncan in groups on a number of occasions and witnessed numerous phenomena
which I regarded as extremely uninteresting. Generally speaking, all I could see was
Mrs. Duncan covered with something or other that was very difficult to identify, and I
thought little of it. On one occasion, however, when I was beginning to get bored, the
control, whoever that might have been, called on me and asked me to step forward,
which I did. The curtain was drawn by something and a figure stepped out. The figure
was much smaller than Mrs. Duncan and much thinner and it had the face of my
mother. For the first time since I was two years old I found myself speechless.
As far as I was concerned there was absolutely no doubt about it; my mother had
been dead then for only about six months and she looked exactly as she did before her
last illness. She looked at me; I suppose she expected me to say something, but as I
said, I couldn’t do it: she didn't say anything but nodded in a very characteristic way.
The experience is really quite uncommunicable but yet, to me, it was highly
significant. A moment later she disappeared. She sank into the floor, as it were. The
light was quite good and there could have been no doubt about it. I discussed this
occurrence with Dr. Dingwall fairly recently and he said "Ah! that was your mind's
eye that saw it". Now I am fairly well acquainted with my mind's eye and I don't
believe it was that.
7
Brigadier Firebrace: Just a little addition to Mrs. Duncan's story of sunken ships.
During the war I was head of Intelligence in Scotland and I had the opportunity of
attending a seance with Mrs. Duncan in Edinburgh. There appeared during the seance
the form of a control, Albert, and he suddenly said "a great British battleship has just
been sunk". Well, I had no knowledge of this. After the seance I returned to my
headquarters and as soon as I got back, about two hours after the sitting, I heard on
the private line from the Admiralty in Scotland the news that the Hood had been sunk.
And I was then able to check up that at the time of the seance the Admiralty had no
knowledge whatever of the sinking of the ship. That was an instance of a materialised
form, whatever you like to call it, which did give, I think at the correct time, the fact
about the sinking of the battleship. So you understand from the point of view of the
authorities, Mrs. Duncan was a somewhat dangerous person. It is a fact that the police
from Scotland Yard did come to the International Institute while these stories were
current, and consulted Mrs. Duncan there, and myself, as to how Mrs. Duncan could
be prevented from giving this information out, because the authorities admitted that
the information was authentic.
Mrs. K. M. Goldney: I don't want to make this remark appear facetious, but if the
control, Albert, was able, by means of clairvoyance, to find out about the sinking of
the ship he might also have known that it was extremely dangerous to read the minds,
presumably of British Intelligence and it would really have been a very big
disadvantage to the British side. They had that knowledge made perfect and I don't
know whether one would presume he was on the side of the Germans when he gave
out it had been sunk.
Brigadier Firebrace: Well, I don't know why you should assume that anybody on
the other side should favour British Intelligence or German Intelligence. All I am
trying to establish is that there is very little difference.
I should like to refer very shortly to this question of Albert. Now I can't think that
the mere fact of dying confers wisdom on a person who had none before and I would
suggest that Albert in life, if he ever was in life, was probably a loose-talker, and
when he returned through Mrs. Duncan he still remained a loose-talker. You know the
tendency, in all of us, if you have some information that other people have not, it's a
very great temptation to pass it on. I do not think the mere fact of dying actually had
changed Albert.
Mrs. K. M. Goldney: Anyone who has read Harry Price's book on the
investigation of Mrs. Duncan, will know that at that time I was on the staff of Queen
Charlotte's and he asked me whether I would come to give a medical examination of
Mrs. Duncan. As a result of that I and William McDougall, who was also present at
all these examinations, as well as Dr. William Brown, confirmed that no medical
examination explained the presence of ectoplasm or material or whatever you like to
call it. But following it, there were several letters written to me on the view that no
medical examination had been given at all and because of that I think it would be fair
to put on record that I asked the medium whether she wished to have the examination
take place and she said yes, she did. So far as the examination was concerned it was
8
entirely in her favour insofar as no medical examination could account for the
material.
Mr. Harold Vigurs: I was associated then of course not only with the L.S.A. but
also with the Society at Croydon and Mrs. Duncan was a member of that Society at
Croydon. It had quite a number of remarkable sittings with her there. I was with Mrs.
Duncan when Miss Phillimore and I think, I'm speaking from memory now, it was
Captain Miller, came down to see Mrs. Duncan to terminate the arrangements that
they had made. Apparently on the recommendation of Dr. Ross, Mrs. Duncan was
invited down to the L.S.A. for a series of experiments and naturally certain conditions
were laid down as to her services. I am sorry to say that Mrs. Duncan quite blatantly
broke those conditions. Why she ever went to Harry Price at all I do not know. It was
a breach of faith so far as the L.S.A. was concerned and I think it was primarily due to
the fact, not that her mediumship was so much questioned, but her reliability as a
party to a contractual obligation was so doubtful, that the L.S.A. decided to terminate
the whole arrangement.
Mrs. Goldney: There were also facts of doubting the mediumship, weren't there?
It was never made public and I think it's rather a pity that it was not.
Mr. Harold Vigurs: There were times when the mediumship was beyond
peradventure; the conditions were such that it carried the whole imprint of its own
genuineness. But undoubtedly at other times the mind of the sensitive interferes with
the production of the phenomena and it requires a very sympathetic and far-seeing
researcher to co-operate with the medium. Well I am afraid with all physical
mediumship at times you do get those periods when you have to put it down to the
interference of the personality or mind of the actual sensitive. But if you are far-
seeing enough you will continue with your efforts, because you know that you will
obtain results which seem to indicate otherwise.
Mr. Wilson: Arising out of a remark made Mrs. Goldney I would like to say that I
am very strongly opposed to publication of negative results of investigation. You will
find that in every branch of science, as far as I know, you use your negative results to
direct you to positive. Unless there is some positive thing in negative research which
can direct future research, then it is simply cluttering up scientific literature to publish
it. It is very important in scientific research that your negative results should be
discarded, except insofar as they direct the lines of future research. It is the positive
that counts and never the negative. In other words, the Irishman cannot bring forward
his fifty witnesses.
Mr. Maurice Barbanell: I have had a great deal of experience with Mrs. Duncan
and when Harry Price first advocated the extraordinary theory of regurgitation we
tested her out very simply by getting her and every member of the seance to swallow
methylin blue pastels, which dyed the contents of everybody's stomach blue. The
ectoplasm that emerged was definitely white. Then on numerous occasions I was
asked to feel the ectoplasm, to handle it, and it was bone-dry. No liquid of any kind
and not even dampness. My most extraordinary experience with Helen Duncan was (I
9
think this is unique, I don't know anybody else who has had it) being invited into the
cabinet with her and to watch the whole process of materialisation taking place from
scratch. I saw the ectoplasm extruding from her ears, her mouth, her nostrils and
gradually billowing and forming the shape, six feet high, of the guide who called
himself Albert, and then watched him slowly sink and disappear into the ground. Now
I think one other fact ought to be mentioned in connection with the prosecution of
Helen Duncan which started at Portsmouth; it may be unimportant, and it may be
completely coincidental but it is that the Chief Constable at Portsmouth at the time
was a Roman Catholic.
Dr. Chisholm: First of all I should like to ask Mr. Barbanell whether any of the
people at the seances were doctors. Secondly I would like to ask him what sort of
capsules were swallowed, because methylin blue capsules quite frequently pass
through the stomach without absorption. Thirdly I would like to ask our speaker, first
of all with regard to the disturbance in light that Dr. Land carried out, was there any
question of polarised light? And in either the white light or the red light, and secondly
why is it that all the material referred to is historical? I note the paper was on
historical study of difficult phenomena, but in view of the fact that in those days there
was neither the electronic developments that have happened since, nor the study of
the unconscious which has been made since most of these papers were written; why is
it that more recent phenomena are not put forward as evidence?
Mr. Maurice Barbanell: I'll answer your methylin blue question very simply by
telling you that the capsules were prepared by a doctor friend of mine, Dr. Margaret
Vivian, of Southport; they were effective and didn't pass right through the stomach as
you suggest and as this is a scientific gathering I will tell you how we proved it.
Because an hour later when we passed water it was blue. This was suggested by a
doctor as being the perfect test.
_____________
DUNCAN MEMOIR REPRINTED
We are pleased to note that Gena Brealey’s book about her mother “The Two Worlds of
Helen Duncan” has been reprinted7
on the initiative of Ann Harrison.
Some minor changes have been made to clarify the events leading to the 1944 arrest; and
a future reprint will adopt the generally accepted birth date of 1897 rather than 1895.
There are hopes that further material by Gena may be published soon; a longer
manuscript was used by Malcolm Gaskill in his biography.
7
Available from Psychic News: - http://www.psychicnewsbookshop.co.uk/product/571 also from Ann
Harrison: -snppbooks@gmail.com
10
Paul Gaunt, who knew Gena, recalls: -
Gena and her husband George were popular platform workers in Christian, and SNU
Spiritualist churches in the 1970’s. George who worked on the railways often acted as
demonstrator with Gena giving the address. Gena was herself a mental medium and well
known as a demonstrator.
They were involved in a small Spiritualist church, which was a converted house, in
Leagrave Luton, Bedfordshire for some years. In the early 1980’s they moved to Stoke-
on Trent Staffordshire; at the age of 60 Gena had a heart attack and she died in 1986, just
months after the publication of ‘The Two Worlds of Helen Duncan’
_____________
CONAN DOYLE BIOGRAPHY RECONSIDERED
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: -
We called attention to Andrew Lycett’s new biography of Arthur Conan Doyle in
September 2007. The book is now available in paperback, and Garth Willey offers a
deeper examination.
11
CONAN DOYLE: THE MAN WHO CREATED SHERLOCK HOLMES (2007) by
Andrew Lycett. Phoenix paperback edition, London (2008) xv + 554 pp.
£10.99 ISBN: 978-0-7538-2428-3
By way of Introduction
Professional biographer Andrew Lycett’s 2007 work was the latest in a long line
of biographies of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (ACD). Indeed, the list extends towards 30
such publications over nearly 80 years since he died (was “Promoted!” as the heading in
Two Worlds exclaimed on 18th
July, 1930). There are 23 major biographical items listed
through to year 2000 on the Arthur Conan Doyle Society’s website, about which time the
Society went into recess (unfortunately, and pending willing successor volunteers) but
details are still to be found (by a circuitous route) at www.ash-tree.bc.ca (and enter via the
Arthur Conan Doyle Society link). In addition, there was ACD’s own autobiography
Memories and Adventures and other semi-autobiographical works; the Journal of the
ACD Society’s extensive biographical material; and a “Further Reading” list to be found
on the aforementioned website.
In recent years successive events have given rise to a great wealth of new
information on the life of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. ACD’s literary estate and personal
papers had been the subject of ongoing legal wrangling between his heirs and successors,
and between them and third party publishers and reproducers of ACD’s literary works. A
substantial resolution and distribution was achieved during the 1990s. This resolution
eventuated in much of his daughter’s (Dame Jean Conan Doyle, 1912-1997) share, along
with much of Dame Jean’s own collection of letters and papers, being directed to the
British Library in 2004. The shares of the estates of the two deceased daughters-in-law
(Anna - widow of Adrian and Princess Nina – widow of Denis) then came on the market
to be auctioned off at Christie’s, London, on 19th
May, 2004 – certain items being
purchased by the British Library.
But getting the collection to auction had not been easy. Nina’s estate had passed
to a USA based Mdivani (Georgian royal family) relative who then died intestate, no
doubt generating its own complications and financial benefits to the legal fraternity!
Years earlier, Nina had negotiated with her sisters-in-law to take the literary rights of the
Conan Doyle estate, in addition to retaining a share in the unpublished personal papers.
She then sold the literary rights in 1977 to a wealthy Hungarian woman, Andrea
Reynolds, who still markets her Sherlock Holmes rights; but is frequently taken to court
by the Conan Doyle estate for infringements. Meantime, at some stage, Nina’s interest in
the family unpublished personal papers had passed over to Anna, or to Anna’s estate.
In addition, there was a storehouse of letters, diaries, photos and papers from the
estate of John Doyle (son of ACD’s brother Innes) which his widow, Georgina, drew on
to publish Out of the Shadows: The Untold Story of Arthur Conan Doyle’s First Family
in 2004. This focuses on ACD’s first marriage to Louise (Touie) and on his relationship
with his first two children, Mary and Kingsley. A review of it, New Light on Arthur
Conan Doyle by Roger Straughan, is to be found in Psypioneer Vol. 1, No 8, December
12
2004 at www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP8 ; and other comments are to be found on
the ACD Society web pages referred to above under the link ‘News’.
And in 2007, a couple of months after Lycett’s Conan Doyle: The Man Who
Created Sherlock Holmes, the actual letters to which Lycett had had access (plus some
which had been withheld from him) were published as Arthur Conan Doyle: A Life in
Letters, edited and annotated by Jon Lellenberg, Daniel Stashower (both former
biographers of ACD) and Charles Foley (a great nephew of Sir Arthur and now an
executor of both the Conan Doyle estate and Dame Jean’s estate). Collectively, the letters
formed from part of the collection which Dame Jean left to the British Library. To quote
from the editors’ Introduction:
… Conan Doyle was a tireless correspondent, and few writers have left as full or
vivid a record of their life and literary work. While he wrote hundreds of letters to the
press and professional associates, the many he wrote to his mother were far more
personal and introspective in nature, revealing a side of the man not previously
known.
… The correspondence constitutes a far more candid autobiography than the one
that Conan Doyle actually published in the 1920s – called Memories and Adventures
– which was long on adventures but deliberately short on the memories.
Virtually no aspect of Conan Doyle’s life and work goes unmentioned in these
letters, and they depict his personality and life far more completely and candidly than
any previous treatment. They also contain many discoveries that greatly extend and
often contradict the existing knowledge of his life. (p4)
A Life in Letters is a substantial work of 710 pages. It presents about 1,000 of the letters
which ACD wrote to his mother, Mary, up until her death in 1920, complemented by
others to his father, brother and sisters and other figures in his life which the editors
arranged and annotated to provide his “life in letters.”
Lycett’s access to these letters had been somewhat frustratingly restricted by the
Trustees who had discretionary power under Dame Jean’s will to suppress publication of
documents merely of family interest – a tally of some 75 to 100 letters. Lycett also
expresses the view that many letters to, and/or concerning, ACD’s first wife, Louise, had
been ‘weeded out’ (presumably destroyed) by Lady Conan Doyle and her sons following
ACD’s death. (p.111)
Other material which was not available or not used for the foregoing works but
which Andrew Lycett gained late access to, was the collection of Richard Lancelyn
Green (RLG). On 26th
March, 2004, in the lead up to the Christie’s auction, the world’s
top Doyle/Holmes expert, RLG, aged 50, died in London: and his massive collection of
Conan Doyle and Sherlock Holmes material, estimated to be worth about 2 million
pounds, was left to the Portsmouth City Council (ACD had lived there for 8½ years as a
GP, 1882-1890).
13
Lycett provides a most interesting 11 page Afterword detailing the intriguing
problems which beset the Conan Doyle estate for 75 years. The saga reads like a plot
reminiscent of Dan Brown’s The Da Vinci Code! Round the globe mystery and intrigue,
family feuds, a Georgian princess, playboy heirs with Ferraris and mistresses, solicitors’
vaults, a Swiss Chateau, an Isle of Man tax shelter, missing papers and, ultimately, the
death of RLG by garrotting! Yes, indeed. ACD often used his own experiences as the
basis for his novels but what was to follow his death must have caused his etheric writing
hand to itch!
Lycett tactfully notes that he attended RLG’s inquest and writes that, although the
coroner recorded an open verdict… I have little doubt that… Green took his own life.
(p464) More directly, The Sunday Telegraph reported that RLG was dead in his bed…
garrotted with a shoelace tightened by a wooden spoon: that the only reasonable doubt,
excluding murder, was whether he had done it as a means of suicide or in a fetishistic
sexual act that accidentally led to his death. However, suicide was highly probable due to
his recent behaviour and highly distraught frame of mind at the thought of the Christie’s
auction eventuating in such valuable ACD records being dispersed far and wide –
whereas he thought they had been intended to go into the British Library collection.
(Good Weekend, July 24, 2004, Australia – from an edited version of an article originally
published in The Sunday Telegraph Magazine – date not given.)
And even as this Review of Lycett’s work is being finalised, yet another biography
has appeared: The Adventures of Arthur Conan Doyle by Russell Miller. This book is
divided into three sections – (1) The Doctor (2) The Writer and (3) The Spiritualist; and
in a synopsis the Random House Group (http://www.rbooks.co.uk/product.aspx?id=0436206137)
states:
During his lifetime Conan Doyle wrote more than 1,500 letters to members of his
family, most notably his mother, revealing his innermost thoughts, fears and hopes:
Russell Miller is the first biographer to have been granted unlimited access to Conan
Doyle’s private correspondence. The Adventures of Arthur Conan Doyle also makes
use of the writer’s personal papers, unseen for many years, and is the first book to
draw fully on the Richard Lancelyn Green archive, the world’s most comprehensive
collection of Conan Doyle material.
Some or all of the material at the British Library denied to Lycett by the Trustees of
Dame Jean’s will was subsequently available to Miller via A Life in Letters; and possibly
there was other material released by the Trustees as well.
Finally in this introductory note, and before proceeding to the Review, it is worth
noting that although ACD had five children from his two marriages, his lineage ended
there: none of the five produced offspring. Hence the prominent roles of his in-laws and
distant relatives in the affairs of his estate.
14
Conan Doyle: The Man Who Created Sherlock Holmes
As a Doylean I must begin by expressing umbrage at professional biographer
Andrew Lycett’s familiarity in referring to ACD throughout as ‘Arthur’. Perhaps the
family letters and diaries led Lycett to think of him as ‘Arthur’, but a point made by
ACD’s son, Adrian Conan Doyle, in The True Conan Doyle (1945) was that:
… there were few things that could stir Conan Doyle more swiftly to a roar of Celtic
rage than the clap on the back, the uninvited use of his Christian name or the
presumptuous observation. (p13)
Even ACD’s friend and first biographer, the Rev John Lamond, in Arthur Conan
Doyle, A Memoir (1931), referred to him as ‘Sir Arthur’ or as ‘Conan Doyle’ according
to context – and briefly as ‘young Arthur’ as a boy and ‘Dr Doyle’ as a physician, but
never as ‘Arthur’; and, in the Memoir’s supplement, Lady Conan Doyle’s Tribute, Lady
Conan Doyle invariably refers to him as ‘my husband’. Owen Dudley Edwards (ODE), of
the same kith as ACD being an Irish born resident of Edinburgh and employed as an
Honorary Fellow at ACD’s University of Edinburgh and Honorary member of the ACD
Society, wrote The Quest for Sherlock Holmes, 1983 (and I fondly remember ODE taking
the participants in an ACD Society ‘Back to Edinburgh Weekend’ in 1993 on a half day
tour around the homes ACD had lived in, to the RC church where we could inspect
ACD’s baptismal record, and to Holyrood Palace where ACD’s father had worked). In
The Quest, ODE generally refers to ACD as ‘Conan Doyle’ but occasionally as ‘Arthur’
or as ‘ACD’ where a note of affection or familiarity is apparent. Otherwise, all
biographers to my knowledge (and I have most of them) refer to him as ‘Conan Doyle’ or
‘Doyle,’ unless the context begs otherwise. And, as may be gathered from my usage,
Doyleans generally refer to him as ‘ACD’ (whereas, on a lighter note, Sherlockians and
Holmesians refer to him as Dr Watson’s literary agent!). It was pleasing, however, to find
that Lycett had utilised the functional ‘ACD’ in the copious and most welcome 40 pages
of Notes of his sources.
Moving on! Overall, Andrew Lycett has masterfully tracked his subject’s life path
through his letters and diaries; he has ‘got inside the man’ and presented a comprehensive
study of ACD’s motivations in relation to his family lineage and his upbringing – such as
the influences of his father’s alcoholism - and to all the contemporary events and
conditions throughout ACD’s life: in politics, world affairs, business, the Arts, sport,
religion and the progress of science and materialism. In particular, Lycett has drawn
attention throughout to ACD’s absorbing and passionate interest in the historical,
philosophical and scientific bases of religion and the paranormal. Initially this provided
good material for many of his novels and short stories; but, beyond the normal level of
intellectual curiosity, ACD had a deeper fascination for an understanding of the human
soul itself, man’s destiny after physical death and the effect of man’s earth life on the
soul – consistent with Frederic Myers’s deliberations in Human Personality and Its
Survival of Bodily Death. Especially, Lycett weaves his biography with an eye to the
emergence later in ACD’s life of his dominant focus on “the vital message” of
spiritualism. [The Vital Message having been the title of the second of ACD’s spiritualist
15
books; the ‘vital message’ being the message behind a message received via mediumship:
that there is life after death.]
Access to the family diaries and correspondences enormously opened up ACD’s
personal life to Lycett – far and beyond what had previously been transparent. That
ACD’s widow and descendents and representatives ‘weeded out’ the archives, as Lycett
alleges, is greatly bemoaned: not only for the absence of the truth of more intimate
matters but because it left Lycett the task of interpreting what he thought was the truth.
Inevitably, the writer’s fertile mind and desire to add flare must tend to the spicier
alternatives.
I’m referring here specifically to two matters: his mother’s relationship with Dr
Bryan Waller (a man 16 or 17 years her junior); and ACD’s 10 year relationship with
Jean Leckie (a young lady 15 years his junior) while his first wife, Louise (Touie), was
terminally ill with tuberculosis. In both situations, Lycett deliberately leads his reader to
the belief that these relationships extended to extra-marital sex. In both situations it is
impossible without specific – rather than circumstantial – evidence to resolve that they
were, or were not, limited to platonic friendships.
And yet, Lycett very quickly disregards specific evidences of psi phenomena and
personal evidences of survival after death – which are abundant.
Lycett certainly leads his readers. For example, when writing about ACD’s early
days as a general practitioner: … his youthful zeal or obsessive behaviour (depending on
one’s point of view)… (p.90) changes to … Arthur’s current obsessions… (p.99). And
again, when relating how he discussed with his brother, Innes, his relationship with Jean,
Lycett writes: It… appears to be an admission that he enjoyed sexual relations with Jean,
but as he denied this elsewhere, it is impossible to confirm. (p.259) Six pages later,
Lycett, in reference to ACD’s departure for the Boer War, blatantly writes that: She
(Jean)… had come, unannounced and alone, to wish her lover God-speed. (p.265)
However, another aspect of ACD’s personal life which I feel Lycett treats much
more equitably is ACD’s relationship with the two children, Mary and Kingsley, from his
first marriage: certainly far more so than is portrayed in Georgina Doyle’s Out of the
Shadows. Here, Lycett gives readers a very fair insight into the atmosphere which
developed between the two children and their father: the circumstances of his very active
life during their childhood, their mother’s physical infirmities, and Mary’s strong-
mindedness and garrulous nature. Mary was a child of the suffragette age – but just how
militant she became in her 20’s is unclear. She worked with her father in the Psychic
Bookshop in the 1920’s and was a spiritualist - but argued with him over many aspects of
it. She died a spinster in 1976, aged 87; and Kingsley died of pneumonia following the
Great War. Undoubtedly, there were problems, and ACD must accept responsibility as
the father – but there are many factors involved.
In similar vein, Lycett deals with ACD’s performance as a father to his two sons
and a daughter by Jean (Denis, Adrian and Jean) in a very open and candid manner: by all
16
accounts, they were thoroughly spoilt. Thus the two boys ended up as wastrel playboys,
whilst, fortunately, Jean managed to rise above it all and pursued a very productive life,
eventually earning her own title and honours: Air Commandant Dame Jean Lena Annette
Doyle - for her role in intelligence in the WRAF during World War II.
However Lycett is far from sympathetic to, or understanding of, ACD’s spiritualistic
beliefs. Although he endeavours not to openly demean ACD’s well known reputation for
being ‘obsessed’ with spiritualist philosophy, Lycett’s sceptical views of mediumship are
well exhibited on pages 132 & 134:-
• The Fox sisters claimed to be able to get in touch with the spirits of the dead…
• Such mediums devised other means of contacting spirits…
• …they also found ways of materialising these spirits… and of further
demonstrating their powers through feats such as levitation.
• Daniel Dunglas Hume was a prime exponent of all these manifestations of mind
over matter.
• …the early days… when the Fox sisters had not been exposed as frauds…
Whether Lycett thoroughly investigated mental and physical phenomena and well
evidenced aspects of the paranormal such as telepathy, precognition and psychokinesis is
a moot point. Whilst Lycett’s grasp of contemporary affairs in the field of the Arts,
politics, etc is well demonstrated, the depth of his researches into paranormal phenomena
- beyond its applications in plots for story telling - is certainly questionable: I do believe
that ACD would have had him on toast for being an uninformed sceptic!
ACD’s mother died late in 1920 (while he was on his Australia and New Zealand
tour) and so Lycett’s trail of letters to his closest confidant ceased to exist for the last
decade of ACD’s intensive life – i.e. for the period of ACD’s greatest involvement with
spiritualism and psychic research. And so Lycett’s drive to ‘get inside the man’ should
have demanded more rigorous and extensive research into spiritualism and into the
spiritualist mediums he disparagingly refers to.
On page 92, Lycett introduces the SPR:
At the start of [1882] a group of mainly Cambridge-based scientists had set up the
Society for Psychical Research…
By page 133 he had discovered a little more:
Who actually founded the [SPR] in February 1882 is still hotly debated. But there is
no doubt that the intellectual core quickly coalesced around three Cambridge
17
academics, Henry Sidgwick, Frederic Myers and Edmund Gurney, together with
another researcher, Frank Podmore.
Whether Lycett sought and gained access to SPR archives, other than the
occasional reference he makes to Journals and Proceedings, is unclear. In his
Acknowledgements (pp469-471) he includes Cambridge University Library (Peter
Meadows) and Trinity College, Cambridge but there is no specific acknowledgement of
the SPR or its officers. Leslie Price advises me that the College of Psychic Studies
archives (with the old LSA and BCPS records) were closed to Lycett (and to all others).
Noticeable by its almost complete absence of reference is the Spiritualist National
Union. It is only mentioned once – in its representation at the Home Office meeting
attended by ACD in July, 1930, a week before his death; and in that reference, Lycett
incorrectly describes the SNU’s representative, Hannen Swaffer, as a medium: a
wrongful presumption! (p452)
Overall, Lycett utilises the new material available to him very well – and he
clearly sets out to focus on that new material rather than to rehash ground already
covered by earlier biographers. He provides a very comprehensive and useful family tree
in the introductory pages and gives 64 photos, many of which had not been shown
publicly before.
Regrettably, I noted a few errors and omissions along the way – inevitable I
suppose in a detailed production such as this: perhaps biographies should carry an ‘E &
OE’ end-note. Errors which I noted down are:
• Family tree: ACD’s daughter, Mary, was born 1889, not 1899; and there are
several nicknames missing which tends to introduce a little confusion, e.g.
identifying ACD’s Aunt Annette (Ann Martha).
• Page 417: ACD did, in fact, make a donation to Rochester City for a memorial to
the Fox sisters – of £5,000 for a memorial obelisk, which still stands today near
the city centre.
• Page 444: There were six volumes to ACD’s The British Campaign in France and
Flanders, not five (plus the condensed version: The British Campaigns in Europe
1914-1918).
• Page 446-447: ACD’s Movietone clip was not filmed in 1929 but in October,
1928 shortly before he left on his extended tour to South Africa. He included
reference to the tour in the past tense because he knew the clip would not be
shown until his return some months later. (The clip runs for 10 minutes and may
be viewed on the net at www.woodlandway.org)
• Page 511: ACD’s 71st
birthday interview in the Sunday Times was on 22 May
1930, not 1931. In 1931 it would have been his 72nd
birthday and would have
been via a medium!
In a fore page, Lycett – rather self-indulgently - quotes a paragraph from ACD’s
Through the Magic Door:
18
The ideal biographer should be a perfectly impartial man, with a sympathetic mind,
but a stern determination to tell the absolute truth. One would like the frail, human
side of a man as well as the other. I cannot believe that anyone in the world was ever
quite so good as the subject of most of our biographies. Surely these worthy people
swore a little sometimes, or had a keen eye for a pretty face, or opened the second
bottle when they would have done better to stop at the first, or did something to make
us feel that they were men and brothers. They need not go to the length of the lady
who began a biography of her deceased husband with the words – ‘D… was a dirty
man,’ but the books certainly would be more readable, and the subjects more lovable
too, if we had greater light and shade in the picture.
Was Lycett impartial? Was he determined to tell the absolute truth? Or does he
give his own coloured interpretation of it? Did he go too far in depicting the light and
shade in the life of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle? Does he accurately depict the frail side of
ACD? - As regards both his personal life and his steadfast endeavours to promote what
he believed was the most important thing for mankind – knowledge of an afterlife. Or
does he add a bit of zeal to it all in order to make it more ‘readable’ than it might be if he
portrayed ACD more virtuously and a paragon for a cause?
Throughout his life, Sir Arthur was known as a fair and honourable man - and
somewhere along the line he was even referred to as the ‘last of the chivalrous knights’.
If he had ‘obsessions’ one of them was to stand tall for what his strong sense of honour
and virtue told him was right, particularly when it came to ‘damsels in distress’. In
Memories & Adventures, ACD articulated (with reference to his involvement in the Boer
War, but with a rider which he could not resist):
Two white lies are permitted to a gentleman, to screen a woman, or to get into a fight
when the fight is a rightful one. So I trust I may be forgiven.
The inclusion “to screen a woman” may have been a thought relative to his feelings for
Jean at the time of the Boer War – but was the woman he was thinking of screening Jean
or Touie? Probably both!
And Lycett quotes ACD’s views on morality in The Narrative of John Smith
(p.100):
…one universal creed will embrace the whole earth… and the pursuit of virtue, not
from any hope of reward or fear of punishment, but from a high and noble love of the
right and hatred of the wrong.
Indeed, as a single example, ACD’s reputation throughout the world for having an
impeccable sense of honour and fair-mindedness was endorsed when he was invited, in
1909, to referee a world championship boxing match in New York between the great
Negro fighter, Johnson, and the white champion, Jeffries (in a letter dated December 9,
1909, Memories & Adventures, p.276). ACD had been unanimously approved as
19
acceptable to both sides – which was quite a distinction in those days of colour
discrimination in sport and the imperative need for an impartial referee.
And, at the end of his life, the epitaph which summed his character up was:
“Steel True, Blade Straight”
In many of ACD’s Sherlock Holmes stories, Holmes is left in a position to judge
the perpetrator of a mysterious crime: to let them go free, knowing in his own mind that
they have suffered raw justice enough already, or to turn them over to Scotland Yard and
the courts. Holmes frequently exercises that discretion to quietly close the case -
knowing that not everything is elementary, my dear Lycett.
REFERENCES
Arthur Conan Doyle Society, The. www.ash-tree.bc.ca/acdsoc
Biographical studies listing. www.ash-tree.bc.ca/acdsbiostudies
[Some difficulty may be experienced in accessing these links directly, enter via
www.ash-tree.bc.ca ]
Doyle, Adrian Conan, (1945) The True Conan Doyle. London: John Murray
Doyle, Arthur Conan,
(1895): The Stark Munro Letters (The Narrative of John Smith). Longmans Green
& Co
(1907): Through the Magic Door. Smith, Elder & Co
(1916-20): The British Campaign in France and Flanders. Hodder & Stoughton
(1919): The Vital Message. Hodder & Stoughton
(1924): Memories & Adventures. Hodder & Stoughton
(1928): The British Campaigns in Europe 1914-1918. Geoffrey Bles, Pall Mall
Doyle, Georgina, (2004): Out Of The Shadows: The Untold Story Of Arthur Conan
Doyle's First Family. Canada: Ash Tree Press
Edwards, Owen Dudley, (1983): The Quest for Sherlock Holmes. Edinburgh:
Mainstream
Lamond, The Rev. John, (1931): Arthur Conan Doyle, A Memoir. London: John
Murray.
Lellenberg, Stashower & Foley, (2007): Arthur Conan Doyle: A Life in Letters.
HarperPress
Miller, Russell, (2008): The Adventures of Arthur Conan Doyle. London: Harvill Secker.
20
Myers, Frederic, (1903): Human Personality and Its Survival of Bodily Death. London:
Longmans, Green & Co
Pearson, Hesketh, (1943): Conan Doyle, His Life and Art. London: Methuen.
_____________
JOSEPH MAXWELL
Jurist, physician, psychist
1858-1938
By Renaud Evrard
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: -
Renaud Evrard is a doctoral student preparing a PhD in clinical and differential
aspects of exceptional experiences. His Ph.D. work includes a review of the literature on
clinical parapsychology, focusing on the psychodynamic approach, with specific interest
in the area of differential diagnosis.
He is an active member of the Student Group of Institut Métapsychique
International since 2004, and a student affiliate of the Parapsychological Association
since 2007. He co-founded in 2007, the Service for Orientation and Help of People with
Exceptional Experiences8
in Paris.
_____________
Thanks to a contact with the great grand-daughter of Joseph Maxwell, I was able to
establish the path of this psi pioneer.
Joseph Maxwell was born in 1858, one of three boys. One became a soldier decorated
with the Légion D’honneur (Sam Maxwell), and one had a less glorious fate (Raoul
Maxwell). Sam and Joseph both married Bernard sisters, owners of the castle Guiraud in
Bordeaux, but never had legitimate children. In 1908, Joseph Maxwell moved to Paris
further to a promotion. One of his friends asked him to put up his girl Suzanne, who had
to continue her studies there. In spite a 25 year age difference, three children arose from
this relationship. Maxwell couldn’t recognize them officially but housed them in his pied-
à-terre at Bordeaux (37 rue Thiac).
8
See: - http://www.pflyceum.org/268.html
21
One of these children was Henriette Josephe Féliza Maxwell-Biraben who pursued the
work of her father. She published an article in the Revue Métapsychique (1952) on the
esotericism of the tattoo, and spoke about her father during a conference at the Institut
Métapsychique International on November 19th, 19529
. Regrettably, because of the
problem created by this out of wedlock children and by the marginality of psi field,
family taboos still prevent from us reaching some archives of Joseph Maxwell.
Joseph had turned to law studies which made him a prosecuting attorney, then a
prosecutor, then a president of the Court of Appeal of Bordeaux. He published texts on
"Contemporary mysticism and the criminal law" (1893), and on "A hermetic magistrate:
Jean D'Espagnet" (1896). He also completed his training by becoming a doctor, which
gave him a better understanding of the psychology of both criminals and mediums. His
dissertation thesis was on “Amnesia and consciousness disorders with epileptics” (1903);
this placed him in the tradition of another famous inhabitant of Bordeaux, Dr Eugène
Azam.
His interest in psychical research began with reading book on Theosophy which gave him
the impulse to study occult mysteries. He saw it as a religion more than a science. It is
significant that Maxwell's interests did not limit themselves to a critical and experimental
approach, but also included much anthropological study of paranormal belief systems and
practices. His huge library gathered many works of scientists and philosophers on these
eternal questions (Roux, 1939).
In January, 1885, he became an associate member of the Society for Psychical Research
and followed their work At Limoges he had the possibility of studying a remarkable
medium. The result, however, was unconvincing. He pursued his researches on his return
to Bordeaux in 1888 with Miss Agullana; Mr Meurice who produced telekineses in full
light;, two young mediums of Agen, and some others. He observed numerous intellectual
and physical phenomena of mediumship, in particular the "raps", but still did not publish.
It was the experiments with Eusapia Palladino that would finally convince him. The first
one took place in Agnelas, in 1895, together with Col. Rochas, Xavier Dariex, Armand
Sabatier, Count Arnaud de Gramont and the physicist Watteville. He invited Palladino for
other sessions in Bordeaux in 1897. His studies of medicine being finished, he finally
published a book summarising his research. At time of this publication in 1903, it was a
very important work to show the metapsychist approach, that is a rigorous study of
spiritualist phenomena, respecting the psychology of the medium without accepting all
the theories.
Maxwell classified the facts in physical and mental phenomena in categories afterwards
used by Boirac and Richet with similar naming. Charles Richet contributed the foreword,
and the work was republished several times.
When his interest became official, Maxwell had to combine his normal life and his life as
a psychist. And he splendidly succeeded in both. As a psychist, he was a member of the
9
No trace of this conference was available.
22
editorial board of the Annales des Sciences Psychiques, then the most influental
specialised journal in France. He published some articles, studying in particular with
sharpened and just pen the case of the villa Carmen [Marthe Beraud] that excited scandal
at this moment (1906). He translated "Life and Matter" of the English physicist Sir Oliver
Lodge (1907b), and did forewords for several works in the field (1910c, 1912, 1914b,
1920). In JSPR, he wrote a critical opinion on the cross correspondences (1911-1912).
Maxwell often made good methodological contributions, whether in the Revue
Métapsychique (1927a), the Annales des Sciences Psychiques (1914a) or in the Revue de
Paris (1921b). He participated in the activities of the Institut Général Psychologique
(sections of “Moral and Criminal Psychology” and of "Psychic and Physiological
Researches”).
He was also active in the Société Métapsychique with Charles Richet (a name that recalls
the dinner meetings at Richet’s home, each 13th
of the month, beginning in 1914 and
ending in 1939), then in the IMI (becoming a member on December 15th, 1924). He still
participated in numerous experiments, before withdrawing definitely to Bordeaux in
1924. He worked on anthropological or symbolical approaches to intuition (1914a),
magic (1921a), bewitchment (1926), divination (1927b) and tarot (1933). His immense
knowledge allowed him to be published in the collection “Bibliothèque de Philosophie
Scientifique” steered by the skeptic sociologist Gustave Le Bon. His ideas were
nevertheless subversive: if magic, bewitchment, divination or tarot were fundamentally
genuine, how should anthropology approach them? What could these practices can teach
us? These questions anticipated the current constructivist anthropology (Mancini, 2006).
His "normal" life was also successful. As a prominent citizen, he was elected on July
26th, 1906 to a seat of the Academy of Sciences, Letters and Arts of Bordeaux, becoming
president in 1919. He also served in the Colonial Institute of Bordeaux, founded in 1901,
and as President of the Society of the Friends of the University of Paris.
He was an actor in the legal and scientific life of Bordeaux. He published a book of
anticipation on “The world of the year 2000” (1902), and other books focusing on his
current time: “Crime and Society” (1909a), and “Contemporary social psychology”
(1910b). He produced studies on the psychological action of legal punishments (1910d),
on juvenile crime (1911), a “Textbook for a member of a trial jury” (1913a), and two
other books on “The Social concept of Crime: History and Evolution” (1914c), and
“Social Philosophy and the Current War” (1916a).
He was an observer of the customs of his time who really questioned how justice must be
applied. Even there, he was sometimes avant-gardist, for example when he defended the
right for abortion. He was supported by a decision of Aix’s Court of October 22nd, 1905
which adopted his opinion: "The mother has the right to keep her integrity even at the
cost of her fruit." However, as his ideas were too progressive (especially some ideas on
the sex education of children and the control of reproduction), Maxwell published his
book "Sexual morality" (1907a) under the pen name of Dr Antoine Wylm.
It is surprising to see that the same pen name was used for publishing psychic novels
which were translated into other languages (1909b, 1910a, 1913b). In these adventures of
23
his alter ego, Dr Heurlault, Maxwell described the situations of a man of science engaged
with the paranormal in a romantic atmosphere.
Maxwell had in fact more and more trouble to position himself. In spite of his rigour, he
was not a commonplace man of science. His curiosity sent him into other fields. For a
long time, he was in opposition to spiritualism, because a lack of convincing proofs, but
he seemed to change his mind at the end of his life. Several points testify to this passage,
without supplying us with certainties.
In 1931, when the spiritualist founder of the IMI, Jean Meyer died, a conflict arose
around the legacy of Meyer. Maxwell took a stand with Hubert Forestier, Meyer's own
medium, in order to keep IMI and the Company of Metapsychic Studies associated.
Several persons in the IMI, especially Eugène Osty, wished the ideological and financial
independence of the IMI because they could not accept Forestier as the life-administrator.
(cf. Lachapelle, 2002).
Another aspect is the testimony of “spiritologist”10
Georges Clauzure, who called
Maxwell his master, and repeated that he became a spiritualist in his old age11
.
Nevertheless, this aspect did not appear in his papers.
Maxwell brought a fresh wind on the research of his time, because he appeared as an
open empiricist, able to discuss concepts such as péri-esprit, astral body, radiant force,
etc., without ever falling into dogmatism.. His precautions to avoid and detect fraud were
well-known. He was clear in his assertions, just in his criticism of testimonies, and in
proposed physiological or psychological explanations, while remaining very careful. He
never he moved beyond his competence. He spoke about "subconsciousness" rather than
about "spirits", but it was immediately to criticize this incomplete theory of
subconsciousness. He defined in a very empirical way a medium "as a person in the
presence of whom psychic phenomena can be observed". He described correctly the state
of nervous instability which is a favourable condition for the effervescence of
mediumship, but immediately stressed that the pathological interpretations of the
personality of the medium as a hysterical or neurasthenic one were erroneous. Even if he
used the idea of an unknown force, different from classic ones, he suggested that its
manifestations obey nevertheless some laws. He admitted that the force is intelligent but
wondered if that intelligence did not come from the experimenters, under the shape of the
product of a collective consciousness. As with Ochorowicz, he thought that the minds of
the sitters in the circle could affect the shape and type of phenomena obtained (Alvarado,
2004).
However, it is difficult to say just how far he was affected by these researches, carried out
mostly alone. René Sudre - whose first read book on psychical research was by Maxwell
- wondered (1926, p. 205) about his statements of seeing “od” or “aura” lights (in
10
By this term, Georges Clauzure wanted to distance himself from the badly connoted "spiritualist" term,
appointing a psychological study of the modifications of the personality of mediums.
11
Personal communication of Yves Lignon of October 5th, 2008.
24
particular, “auras” around fingers). Sudre thought that it was only a matter of suggestion.
But a question arises then: which other phenomena were suggested to Maxwell?
References:
Alvarado, C.S. (2004). Concepts of Force in Early Psychical Research. Pesquisa Psi.
http://www.pesquisapsi.com/content/view/18/146/
Lachapelle, S. (2002). A world outside science. French attitudes toward mediumistic
phenomena (1853-1931). Dissertation thesis in history, University of Notre-Dame.
Mancini, S. (ed.) (2006). La fabrication du psychisme: Pratiques rituelles au carrefour
des sciences humaines et des sciences de la vie. Paris: La Découverte.
Maxwell, J. (1893).Le Mysticisme contemporain et le droit pénal. Limoges: Ducourtieux.
Maxwell, J. (1896).Un magistrat hermétique: Jean d'Espagnet, président du Parlement
de Bordeaux. Bordeaux: Gounouilhou.
Maxwell, J. (1902).Le monde de l’an 2000.
Maxwell, J. (1903a). Les phénomènes psychiques: recherches, observations, méthodes.
Paris: Alcan.
Maxwell, J. (1903b). L’amnésie et les troubles de la conscience chez les épileptiques.
Thèse de médecine, Université de Bordeaux.
Maxwell, J. (1904-1905). Quelques réflexions. Revue Scientifique et Morale du
Spiritisme, pp. 229-237, pp. 273-280.
Maxwell, J. (1904a). L’étude de Chevreul sur la baguette divinatoire. Annales des
Sciences Psychiques, 276-290, 337-358.
Maxwell, J. (1904b). A study on Rothe trial [In Italian]. Rivista di Studi Psichici, pp. 221-
231, 257-270, 293-308.
Maxwell, J. (1905). Note sur quelques faits anormaux survenus dans une maison des
environs de Bordeaux. Annales des Sciences Psychiques, 42-45.
Maxwell, J. (1906). Les séances de la Villa Carmen et leurs critiques. Annales des
sciences psychiques, n°4-5, Avril-Mai.
Maxwell, J. [Wylm, A.] (1907a). La morale sexuelle. Paris: Alcan.
Maxwell, J. (1907b). Préface et traduction de « La vie et la matière » par Sir Oliver
Lodge.
25
Maxwell, J. (1908). Critics regarding Miller [In Italian]. Luce et Ombra, 599-600.
Maxwell, J. (1909a).Le crime et la société. Paris: Flammarion.
Maxwell, J. [Wylm, A.] (1909b). Les Carnets du Dr Heurlault : le Chapelet de corail.
Paris: Félix Juven.
Maxwell, J. [Wylm, A.] (1910a). Les Carnets du Dr Heurlault: maîtresse mystique. Paris:
Félix Juven.
Maxwell, J. (1910b). La psychologie sociale contemporaine. Paris: Alcan.
Maxwell, J. (1910c). Préface à « La vue à distance, dans le temps et l’espace, enquête sur
des cas de psychométrie, janvier-décembre 1909 » par Edmond Dûchatel. Paris:
Leymarie.
Maxwell, J. (1910d). Action psychologique des peines. Conférences à l’Institut Général
Psychologique de Paris.
Maxwell, J. (1910e). La magie et les recherches psychiques. Annales des Sciences
Psychiques, 169-172.
Maxwell, J. (1910f). La méthode. Annales des Sciences Psychiques, 328-336.
Maxwell, J. (1911). Rapport de la Commission d’enquête sur la criminalité juvénile.
Institut Général Psychologique, section de psychologie morale et criminelle.
Maxwell, J. (1911-1912). Les correspondances croisées et la méthode expérimentale.
Proceedings of the SPR, XXV, pp.57-144.
Maxwell, J. (1912). Préface à « La Survivance Humaine: Etude de Facultés non encore
reconnues » de Sir Oliver Lodge. Paris: Alcan.
Maxwell, J. (1913a). Manuel du juré: éléments de science criminelle et pénale à l’usage
de la Cour d’Assises. Paris: Flammarion.
Maxwell, J. [Wylm, A.] (1913b). L’amant de la momie. Paris: Flammarion.
Maxwell, J. (1913c). Le problème de l’intuition. Annales des Sciences Psychiques, 310-
315, 342-346.
Maxwell, J. (1914a). Le problème de l’intuition. Niort: G. Clouzot. (Tiré à part des
Annales des Sciences Psychiques).
Maxwell, J. (1914b). Préface à « Les Phénomènes dits de Matérialisation » de Juliette
Alexandre-Bisson. Paris: Alcan.
26
Maxwell, J. (1914c). Le concept social de crime: histoire et évolution. Paris: Alcan.
Maxwell, J. (1916a). La philosophie sociale et la guerre actuelle. Paris: Alcan.
Maxwell, J. (1916b). Rapports de l’automatisme et de la personnalité normale. Paris:
Institut Général Psychologique, Section des recherches psychiques et physiologiques.
Maxwell, J. (1920). Préface à « Les phénomènes de hantise » d’Ernesto Bozzano. Paris:
Alcan.
Maxwell, J. (1921a). La magie. Paris: Flammarion, coll. « Bibliothèque de philosophie
scientifique ».
Maxwell, J. (1921b). Les sciences psychiques. Revue de Paris, mars.
Maxwell, J. (1926). L’envoûtement. Conférence faite à l’Académie des sciences, des
belles lettres et des arts de Bordeaux les 18 mars et 15 avril 1926.
Maxwell, J. (1927a). Métapsychique et médecine. Revue métapsychique, janvier-février.
Maxwell, J. (1927b). La divination. Paris: Flammarion.
Maxwell, J. (1927c). The Philosophy of Life and Metapsychics. 3rd
International
Congress of Psychical Research, Paris.
Maxwell, J. (1933). Le tarot: le symbole, les arcanes, la divination. Paris: Alcan.
Maxwell-Biraben, J.H. (1952). Tradition du tatouage. Revue Métapsychique, juillet-août-
septembre.
Roux, J.-C. (1939). Joseph Maxwell. Revue Métapsychique, janvier-février.
Sudre, R. (1926). Introduction à la Métapsychique Humaine. Paris: Payot.
_____________
27
EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN
C H A S I N G D O W N E M M A
www.ehbritten.org
A new dedicated website in the making
Marc Demarest asks: -
For a projected biography of Emma Hardinge Britten, which is intended both to present
EHB in all her complexity and to do justice to her role as the leading propagandist and
apologist for the early modern Spiritualism movement, I am eager to hear from anyone
working on or interested in EHB, anyone in possession of ephemera related to Britten,
including material from her various lecture tours, and anyone with copies of the
numerous Spiritualist magazines in which she published advertisements and articles, as
well material anyone with material - letters, account books and so forth - from her
personal life, travels and business ventures.
I trust that a concerted effort to pull together primary and secondary materials on EHB
will help remedy the lack of a modern biography of EHB and the lack of an EHB
bibliography, and to uncover and sift, insofar as it is possible, the scattered (and it seems
contradictory) documentary facts of both her early life and her final UK period (as well
as her time in the United States and in Europe).
All responses and offers of assistance will be gratefully received and acknowledged, all
collaborators are welcome, and all materials treated with the utmost care.
Marc Demarest
marc@noumenal.com
_____________
28
Hippolyte Léon Denizard Rivail
Better known under the pseudonym of
Allan Kardec
1804-1869
Introductory Note by Psypioneer:
In the November issue of Psypioneer12
we reprinted Alexander Aksakof’s
research (published in The Spiritualist, August 13, 1875,) into the historical origin of
Kardec’s book, Le Livre des Esprits (The Spirits’ Book) first issued in 1856, which
marked the beginning of Kardec’s Spiritism.
This article has prompted a welcome response from Dr. Moreira-Almeida, M.D.,
Ph.D. Professor of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Federal University of Juiz de Fora
(UFJF), Brazil. Director of the Research Center in Spirituality and Health (NUPES) at
UFJF, Brazil.
This link13
will introduce you to other papers by Dr. Moreira-Almeida, including
also one on historical aspects of Kardec's work that he presented at the PA conference,
2008.
Published below is the full response from Dr. Alexander Moreira-Almeida: -
Dear Paul J. Gaunt,
First of all, I would like to congratulate you for the wonderful work at Psypioneer News.
It is an important source for all of us interested in history of the field.
I write below some considerations regarding Aksakof's paper on Kardec published in the
last newsletter.
Despite the title ("Researches on the historical origin of the reincarnation speculations of
French spiritualists"), the paper is not based on a historical research. It seems to be
entirely based on an interview with the medium Celina Japhet in 1873. This medium had
worked with Kardec but later had severe conflicts with him (as we can read from
Aksakof's paper). So, probably, she was not an unbiased source. It seems that Aksakof
did not check the reliability or validity of the data presented. The result is a report
strongly biased against Kardec and with a lot of factual mistakes and imprecisions. Some
objective flaws of this paper:
12
See: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.11November08..pdf
13
See: - www.hoje.org.br/elsh
29
The year of the two editions of the Spirit's book are wrong: the correct: 1st: 1857, 2nd
(revised): 1860. (http://www.espirito.org.br/portal/artigos/geeu/le2-rosto.html )
The statement that "The story of his first investigations into spirit manifestations is
somewhat obscure" is not well grounded. Kardec described it at the introduction and
prolegomena of Spirit's Book. The second part of Kardec's book "Oevres Postumes"
describes these first investigations in some detail. Kardec's methods are also detailed in
the 1st chapter of "Genesis" and at the Introduction of "Gospel According to Spiritism"
(These books are available for free download at www.usspiritistcouncil.com/ebooks.htm).
However, the best source to understand Kardec's methods are the twelve volumes of
Revue Spirite - Journal d'Études Psychologiques (Spiritist Journal – Journal of
Psychological Studies), a monthly journal he edited and published from 1858 until his
death in 1869. He used the Revue Spirite to present reports and to discuss possible
explanations of all sorts of physical and mental mediumistic manifestations. He regularly
presented hypotheses in the Revue to be tested and analyzed by its readers. Kardec
considered this journal as a "trialground", a kind of "proceedings" of Spiritism. The first
paper published at the Revue provides us with some sense on Kardec's methods and
thoughts (Janvier 1858, Introduction: http://pagesperso-
orange.fr/charles.kempf/rs1858/18580101.htm ). Many texts and theories first published at the
Revue were later published in a developed form in one of Kardec's books. The Revue
Spirite can be downloaded for free at http://pagesperso-
orange.fr/charles.kempf/rs140.htm
The statement that Kardec pushed on mediums his own ideas on reincarnation is a
controversial one, but I'm not aware of any objective evidence of that. Kardec stated that
he, in the beginning of his investigations, had strong objections to this idea (Revue Spirite
Février 1862, La Réincarnation en Amérique; Novembre 1858, De la pluralité des
existences corporelles).
Also, it is not true that Kardec ignored DD Home. Only at the Revue Spirite (between
1858 to 1869), there are 136 nominal citations to M. Home. Usually praising him, his
moral behavior, his great mediumistic skills, and defending him against criticisms.
Home's book "Révélation sur ma vie surnaturelle" was included among the books that
should compose a "Spiritist Library". This paper was published by Kardec in the year of
his death (1869). Even DD Home has recognized in a letter (Oct 1st, 1875) to the same
The Spiritualist published less than 2 months after Aksakof's letter that Kardec had cited
him at Medium's Book. Aksakof's letter resulted also in the publication of 2 letters (from
Anna Blackwell Aug 27, and from P G Leymarie, the editor of Revue Spirite Oct 8,
1865) that were answers to Aksakof's letter.
Unfortunately, Aksakof's letter, this unreliable reference, was a major source about
Kardec in English spoken word. It was the base of several biographies of Kardec such the
ones published by Fodor in his Encyclopedia and by Emma Harding Britten at Nineteenth
Century Miracles.
30
To correct some of these imprecisions regarding Kardec's life and work, I wrote the paper
below:
Allan Kardec and the Development of a Research Program in Psychic Experiences:
http://www.hoje.org.br/site/arq/artigos/Kardec_research_program_PA2008.pdf
Best wishes,
Alexander.
_____________
Psypioneer stated in the November Newsletter:14
- “Many of the websites mentioning
Kardec state incorrectly that the The Spirits’ Book was first published in 1857. In fact, a
Revised Edition was issued in 1857”. The first edition being 1856.
Alexander’s reply states: - The year of the two editions of the Spirit's book are wrong: the
correct: 1st: 1857, 2nd (revised): 1860. (http://www.espirito.org.br/portal/artigos/geeu/le2-
rosto.html )
Anna Blackwell who translated The Spirits Book in 1875; states in her Translator’s
Preface:15
-
From the materials thus furnished to him from every quarter of the globe he
enlarged and completed The Spirits' Book, under the direction of the spirits
by whom it was originally dictated; the "Revised Edition" of which work,
brought out by him in 1857 (vide "Preface to the Revised Edition," p. 19*)
has become the recognised text-book of the school of Spiritualist Philosophy
so intimately associated with his name.
* PREFACE TO THE REVISED EDITION
IN the first edition of this work, we announced our intention to publish a
Supplement treating of points for which it had been impossible to find room in
that edition, or which might be suggested by subsequent investigations; but the
new matter proved to be so closely connected with what had been previously
published as to render its publication in a separate volume inexpedient. We
therefore preferred to await the reprinting of the work, taking advantage of the
opportunity thus afforded to fuse the whole of the materials together, to
supress redundancies, and to make a more methodical arrangement of its
contents. This new edition may consequently be considered as a new work,
although the principles originally laid down have undergone no change,
14
Page 258: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.11November08..pdf
15
See page 13 & 19 http://www.usspiritistcouncil.com/PDF/spirits_book.pdf
31
excepting in a very few instances which will be found to constitute
complements and explanations rather than modifications.
Allan Kardec
1875 correspondence about Allan Kardec and Spiritism will continue in the
February issue.
_____________
RECENT PAPERS - A NEW FEATURE IN
PSYPIONEER
The title “Recent papers” has a long history in journals, and in particular was used in
“The Christian Parapsychologist” around 1990. It provides an opportunity to note papers
of interest that have appeared elsewhere, and might otherwise escape the attention of
readers. The notes, which may comment or summarise the papers, can be written by a
variety of contributors. We are launching such a series in Psypioneer. Some of the papers
will be in well-known psychic publications, but most appear in scholarly journals more
difficult to access.
Access is indeed a problem. Quite often a general historical publication carries an article
of interest to us, but it is naturally protected by copyright, and securing a photocopy or
PDF is not easy. But we think that readers would at least like to know of recent papers,
even if they are not easy to obtain.
1. Miriam Wallraven “A Mere Instrument” or “Proud as Lucifer” Self-presentations in
the occult autobiographies by Emma Hardinge Britten (1900) and Annie Besant (1893).
In Women’s Writing 15:3,390-411
Last year, the journal “Women’s Writing”16
devoted an issue to Women and the
Victorian Occult.
Whereas Annie Besant has long received attention in women’s studies, this paper marks
perhaps the emergence of Mrs Britten as a suitable subject for such analysis. The text
used is the 1999 SNU reprint of the Autobiography, and no additional historical
information is deployed. Dr Wallraven is concerned with the social situation of these two
female occult writers, and their sources of authority- spirit guides in one case,
theosophical masters in the other ( the term “ascended masters” used by Wallraven does
16
http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title%7Econtent=g905687724%7Edb=all
32
not belong to that era.). Mrs Britten, as a medium, assumed a more passive role than Mrs
Besant.
Wallraven suggests “As with Annie Besant, public speaking constitutes the most
important action in her life” (p.397). In retrospect however, we might consider her
historical work more important- others would nominate the transmission of the Seven
Principles.
LP…
_____________
MARK TWAIN
And
EARLIEST SPIRITUALIST FICTION
By Gerald O’Hara
Which is the earliest piece of fiction to feature Spiritualism? I recently come across a
contender for this new crown when I realised that Mark Twain’s first book, “The
Jumping Frog of Calaveras County and other stories” contained a short story; called
“Among the Spirits”. This originally appeared as “Among the Spiritualists” in The
Californian in January, 1866. The Californian was a San Francisco weekly literary
journal established by Charles Henry Webb in May 1864. Shortly after Bret Harte
assumed the reins of editor, Mark Twain was hired to contribute one article per week. He
received $50 per month for his contributions. Approximately fifty Mark Twain articles
ultimately appeared in The Californian. Several of Twain's contributions to The
Californian were collected and published by Webb in 1867 as The Celebrated Jumping
Frog of Calaveras County, and Other Sketches.
Born in 1835 -1910 Samuel Langhorne Clemens was better known by his pen name,
Mark Twain. Twain was not a Spiritualist and was in general critical of Christianity and
organised religion. However, the short story though satirical does show some knowledge
of “table rapping” and the ending does show some understanding of the nature of
communication.
The Bradford Observer for 1853 published the following doggerel on table rapping
“For works of labour or of skill
We would our likening prove
For the Satan finds some tables still
For idle hands to move
33
However, I know of no other sympathetic piece of prose that is as early as that of Mark
Twain’s. Robert Browning’s “Mr Sludge The Medium”, was written some time after
1868. Spiritualist publisher James Burns printed a novel, “Intuition” in 1878. Henry
James’s “Bostonians” was written in 1886, with its famous hostile pen portrait of Cora
LV Richmond-Tappan. The genre was to grow and I could cite many fictional pieces.
Right down to today; on Monday 28th Dec ITV showed “Affinity” a drama with a
Victorian Spiritualist theme. The Spiritual Séance17
also known as Among the
Spiritualists18
, for being the candidate for the earliest literary portrait of a Spiritualist
meeting.
Gerald O’Hara
___________
Quiz answers for December 2008 issue -see p. 308.
Here are the answers to the quiz, in which each question refers successively to an issue,
beginning with January 2008.
1) Jan. What was Mrs Miller’s gift?
The donated premises of the original site of Edinburgh Psychic College in Heriot Row,
Edinburgh by Mrs Miller were in memory of her husband.
Also this is the title of the new history of the College by Gerald O Hara and Ann Harrison
available from us.
2) Feb. Who struck a new note in Psychic News
Susan Farrow, a professional musician, became editor of PN, and has since widened the
contributor base considerably, with historical material often represented.
3) March. Who convened the meeting at which the ISF was first proposed?
At a 1922 Congress convened by the SNU, M. Beversluis of the Dutch Society of
Spiritualists proposed an international body.
(So when the SNU withdrew from the ISF in 2008, it was indeed a sad moment.)
4) April. Who was suggested as the most influential Spiritualist.
17
The Spiritual Séance: - http://www.twainquotes.com/18660204t.html
18
Among the Spiritualists see: - http://www.twainquotes.com/18660204at.html
34
W. H. Stead, the subject of a new biography, “Maiden Tribute”, by Grace Eckley. The
biography has also been sympathetically received by the Salvation Army19
.
5) May. Where was physical mediumship filmed in infra-red in 1960?
At Camp Chesterfield, Indiana. Unfortunately, the film revealed that various Camp
personalities played the parts of the materialisations.
6) June. What did Mrs Duncan say when invited to sit at the SPR?
She replied that she would not sit for a million. This was pity, as she would have been
safer with them than with Harry Price’s organisation
7) July. How old was Madame Blavatsky’s first husband when he married her?
Mr Blavatsky was 39 or 40, but some Theosophical web sites describe him as elderly.
8) Aug. What was Sir Oliver Lodge’s connection with organised Spiritualism?
He tried to dissociate himself from the official movement, although his views had much
in common with the LSA.
9) Sept. What journal was saved this month by a godly repentance?
The Christian Parapsychologist, founded in 1975, which was threatened with closure by a
working party of its owner, CFPSS. But the CFPSS council reversed the decision. This
was another story not reported elsewhere.
10) Oct. Where is the grave of Stainton Moses?
Bedford cemetery, England. We hope to publish in our next issue a photograph of the
grave as it was in 1974 when first discovered by a Psypioneer contributor.
11) Nov. When was Helen Duncan born?
According to her birth certificate, she was born on 25 November 1897.
12) Dec. What became of the Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph?
Founded in 1855, in 1857 it became the British Spiritual Telegraph, closing in 1859. The
earliest regular UK Spiritualist newspaper. A volume was included in the Stansted
donation to the SPR, which sold it to a Council member.
19
http://www.salvationarmy.org/ihq%5Cwww_sa.nsf/vw-
sublinks/9C3A9AD8EBA039EC8025753000121B9C?openDocument
35
PLEASE
SUPPORT PSYPIONEER WITH BUYING YOUR
BOOKS THROUGH US!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
‘Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-
0-9553420-8-0.
See Psypioneer 3.11: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K.,
postage, elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’
By John Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison @ £7.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-
9514534-6-9. See Psypioneer book review: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £14.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism - a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer
Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’
Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
36
‘Occultism and Spiritualism – a book review by, Stainton Moses originally published
under the pseudonym M.A. (Oxon). Published 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this
is a small booklet 10pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
All three Psychic Pioneer Publications £6.00 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
How to obtain this Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web
site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
Please note: - “Copyright of all material appearing in LIGHT is reserved to the authors and original
publisher. It may not be reproduced or translated, either wholly or in part, without written permission.
LIGHT is still published by the College of Psychic Studies and you are urged to subscribe.
http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/index.html”
37
