{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9525","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n56_jan_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N56 January 1889","mylang":"de"}
No. LVI.-VoL. IV. JANUolRT, 18l1li.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and AssocIates •• •.
Propo!led Memorial to Mr•.Edm1llld GlI11Ie),
MeetIDg of the CouncU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
)'urtber Remarb on E98r1menta in CJalrvO)'&llt Perception of Drawinp
ea.a. received b)' the Literal')' Committee . . . . . . . . ...
The POll: Sistars.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
PolGR
.. 1
.. 1
.. S
.. 8
.. 7
.. 15
DOWSON, MRS., L.K.Q.C.P.I., 20, Westgate-terrace, Redcliffe-square,
London, S.W.
ELBWORTHY, ARTHUR K.o Foxdown, Wellington, Somerset.
GIBSON, REV. MARSDEN, M.A., The Master's Lodge, Magdalene
Hospital, Newca.stltHln-Tyne.
ASSOCIATES.
EVANS, MRS., The Great House, Llanmaes, near Cowbridge, Glamorgan.
GREIG, REV. DAVID, M.A., Cottenham Rectory, Cambridge.
GRIER, CAPTAIN GEORGE R, Neyland, RS.O., Pembrokeshire.
MAYNE, ARTHUR J., 51, Ashbourne-grove, East Dulwich, London, S.E.
SLOMAN, REV. ARTHUR, M.A., The School House, Birkenhead.
PROPOSED MEMORIAL TO MR. EDMUND GURNEY.
(REVISBD NOTIOE.)
It has been suggested by a member of the Society fGr Psychical
Research that it would be fitting to commemorate Mr. Uurney's work
in Psychical Research by dedicating to his name some branch of the
Society's Library, and raising a fund to make the department more
complete. The Oouncil (with the approval of Mr. Gurney's family)
gladly accept this suggestion, and invite contributions to a fund which
it is hoped may be permanently invested-the interest being expended
in building up by yearly purchases a Library of works bearing on
Hypnotism and kindred subjects, to be known as the "Edmund
Gurney Library," and bound and stamped accordingly.
B
2 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. [.Tan., 1889.
The subject of Hypnotism has been selected, partly because it was
in this direction that lIluch of Mr. Gurney's most valua.ble and original
work was done; and partly because it is a branch of research now
widely recognised as of high scientific importance, and on which every
year produces new publications of value. The Society's collection of
books on Hypnotism will naturally form the nucleus of the proposed
Library, but it is incomplete, and many fresh works will need to be
added both at once and, in all probability, for many years to come.
It is for this reason that the Oouncil would be glad, if possible, to
expend in each year only the interest of the fund to be collected. It
is proposed that all books thus purchased shall continue to form part
of the "Edmund Gurney Library," and that the employment of the
funds raised shall be entrusted to the Library Committee of the
Society for Psychical Research for the time being. Donations are
invited both from members of the Society for Psychical Research and
from other friends of Mr. Gurney's, who may be glad of this
opportunity of doing honour to his memory. The Rev. A. T. Fryer,
4, Upper Vernon-street,* London, W.O., has kindly consented to act
as treasurer, and will receive any sum entrusted to him for the
"Edmund Gurney Library Fund."
FREDERIC W. H. MYERB,} Hon. Secs. Society
FRANK PODMORE, for Psychical Research.
19, BUCKINGHAM STREET,
ADELPHI, LONDON, W.O.
December, 1888. •
The following donations have been already received or promised :-
Mrl. Russell Gurney ...
F. W. H. Myers... ...
Mrs. F. W. H. Myers
Dr. A. T. Myerl... ...
Lord and Lady Rayleigh
Professor Sidgwick
Mrs. H. Sidgwick
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour
Mrs. F. Myers ... ...
Miss Bertha Porter ...
£ I. d.
25 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
500
500
500
Prof. S. H. Butcher
R. H. Hutton
Lord Monteagle ...
F. Podmore
J. H. Stack... ...
Miu Balfour
Prof. Croom Robertaon
Rev. A. T. Fryer
EmestMyerl
F. C. S. Schiller ...
£ So d.
330
220
220
220
220
200
110
110
1 1 0
1 1 0
p" * N.B.-Mr. Fryer's address as given in the JOURNAL for
December was wrong; the above address is correct.
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1889.] JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. 3
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
At a Meeti&g of the Council held at the Society's Rooms on
Decemhe.· 17th, the following Members were present :-The President
(in the chair), Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. F. W. H. Myers, Frank
Podmore, and J. Herbert Stack.
Three new Members and five new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected.
The resignation of several Members and Associates who, for various
reasons, desired to retire from the Society at the close of the year, were
accepted. It was agreed that the names of some others, whose
subscriptions had remained for some time unpaid, Should be struck off
the list.
Various matters of routine business were attended to.
As previously arranged. the Annual Business Meeting of the
Members of the Society will be held on Friday, January 25th, 1889.
The Assistant-Secretary was directed to send out the notices in the
usual form, according to the rules.
A General Meeting will be held, as previously stated, on the evening
of the same day.
It has also been agreed to hold a General Meeting on Monday,
March 18th, 1889.
The next Meeting of the Council will be held at the close of the
Annua.l Business Meeting on January 25th.
FURTHER REMARKS ON EXPERIMENTS IN
CLAIRVOYANT PERCEPTION OF DRAWINGS.
By PROFESSOR CHARLES RICHET.
[Translated.]
It is with keen interest that I have read Miss Balfour's comments
upon my article on Lucidity. May I be allowed to make on this
subject two short observations, after which I shall relate some experi-
ments which I made yesterday, a few hours after reading the number
of the Journal which contains Miss Balfour's remarks.
It is certain that the subjectll of lucidity (if lucidity exist) do not
perceive the objects in detail, but only the objects in mass-in their
principal outlines; also it appears, at first, preferable to give for their
divination simple lines, and not complicated drawings such as were
usually furnished to me in the envelopes, of the contents of which I
was ignorant. But, on the other hand, with geometrical figures, or
extremely simple designs, chance might play a more important part
B 2
Digitized by Google
4 J01Jlr'ool of Society for Psychical &search. [Jan., 1889.
than in the case of more complicated drawings. If one of these com-
plicated drawings should be described in all its details, it would be
extremely strong evidence; if on the other hand the subject could
indicate only the principal outlines, one would look upon the drawing
as upon a geometric design, abstract the details, and take note only of
the principal outlines described by the subject.
I am, nevertheless, quite in agreement with Miss Balfour as to the
advantage of employing very simple drawings only; but one knows that
it is very difficult, if not impossible, to arrive immediately at a pro-
cedure of experimen~; I will not say sound, but even pa.ssable. It is
only after much grCWing and hesitation that one avoids faulty attempts
and errors in starting. I have had no predecessors to guide me, which
may be a gIOund for indulgence for the defects of this research, which
after all is but a first rough sketch. I have even ended by being per-
suaded that the results obtained by these drawings (even if they were
of irreproachable exactitude, which is, unfortunately, never the case)
could not in themselves carry conviction. They do not e,'en lend
themselves to the calculation of probabilities, The best way, in my
opinion, would be to experiment always with cards, but the cards seem
to succeed even less than the drawings, for various rea.sons, upon which
I have not now time to insist.
As to the second point dealt with by Miss Balfour, I am quite in
agreement with her. But how is one to avoid this rock t How to
provide, in presenting a drawing, against having in one's mind such or
such a design 7 Assuredly one must not speak of it to the subject, for
whatever one says tends only to put the subject on a wrong tack. As
a rule, I never say a word, though sometimes it is really difficult to
allow the subject to hesitate and grope for a quarter of an hour and
more, without supplying the word. But even when one says nothing,
one thinks, and it isimpoBBible not to do so.
I shall allow myself, Ii propo. to this, to relate the following facts,
which have occurred quite recently, and confirm in a surprising manner
the remarks of Miss Balfour.
On Sunday (December 9th), at 8 a.m., I received the number of the
JO'IJI1"nQ,l containing Miss Balfour's paper, which I read naturally with
great attention. What struck me most were the remarks as to Figure
60, Exp. XVI., and still more, as to Figure 88, Exp. XXXVIII., and
I said to myself that Alice, on the one hand, and Claire, on the other,
had given proof of some lucidity but that I had clumsily put them out
by my words and my interpretations. [The cases referred to are those
in which, the original drawings representing a tree and a swallow,
the percipient's descriptions suggested to M. Richet a wreath a.nd
Digitized by Google
.Jaa.,l889.] JO'IJIr'1U11, of Society for Psychical Research. 5
a parrot's head respectively. See pp. 96 and 112 of Procudingl,
Part XII.]
I was going, that very day, December 9th, to see both Alice and
Claire. At 4.30 p.m., having put Alice to sleep, I made with her five
experiments, which succeeded fairly well, though not perfectly in any
case, and I ask to be permitted to relate them in detail.
I. I ask : "What object have I in Diy pocket'" She says: "It is
Dot of much use; it is not long; it is to place upon paper; there is a
circle, a stamp (timbre), a seal (cacket); it is not like a paper-weight."
Then I ask (and I was wrong to speak): "What is it made of'" and
ahe says, "Iron."
These answers are rather remarkable, in so far that they apply
admirably, not to the object which I had in my pocket on December 9th
-a die (eltompe)-but to another object which I had carried about for
some days previously (without showing it to anyone) with the vague
intention of giving it as an object to be gueued at, either by Alice or
some other subject. It was a piece of wood, resembling a paper-
weight, with a round. in the middle-a fragment of ,,""ood-work which
had become detached from a piece of furniture. The description which
Alice had given of it WaB quite exact, except for saying, "It is to place
. upon paper," which applied to the die. The worst mistake, that of
saying " It is iron," WIloB, no doubt, provoked by my ill-timed question.
It seems, therefore, IIoB if there were in this CIIoB8 a mixture of two
images-of two objectB-(I) the object which I had carried about for
two days, with the intention of submitting it to Alice; (2) the object
which I actually carried on the day in question.
II. In the next room, which was quite dark, I took a card out of a
pack of 32 cards, and put it on the table; afterwards I replaced the
pack in my pocket, without showing it. Naturally, I did not know
the card, which I thus took from the pack, and in the next room there
was no light, and no one WaB present. Alice said, "Knave of Spades."
In reality it was the King of Spades, which is very much like the
knave.
III. I said to Alice: "I am going to take a coin out of my pocket
and place it on the table in the next room," which I did. She said,
very rapidly: "It i'il a franc piece, with the effigy of Napoleon
Ill., 1866." It WIloB in fact a franc, with the effigy of Napoleon, 1863.
IV. She hlloB an album containing 31 photographs, with which I
have sometimes made experiments, making use of each of the photo·
gra.phs IIoB if it were a card in a pack. In the dark room, I took at
random one of these photographs, without knowing which I had taken.
She told me it WBi a lady, photographed at Rennes, which WIloB
Digitized by Google
6 JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jau., 1889.
actually the case; but there were in her album six photographs of
ladies taken at Rennes, and she wa.s mistaken in the precise designa-
tion of the person whose photograph I had put in my pocket.
V. It is to the experiment with a drawing that I attach most im-
portance. I put into her hands a thoroughly opaque envelope, and I had
hardly placed it in her hands when she sa.id, "It is a parrot. I see it
quite well-it is so plain that it cannot be true (1). It is upon some-
thing high." She said not another word, and I opt'ned the envelope.
I sa.id: "It is wrong. It is a man hanged on a big gallows." Then,
instead of sa.ying that it wa.s wrong, she is delighted, contrary to
custom, and sa.ys to me, laughing, "But I sa.w it; the high perch is the
gallows I " And, in fact, one knows that in the public gardens, there
are sometimes parrots out of doors on bars, but over .hem is a large
ring, to which they can suspend themselves.
Here, I think, is confirmation of MiBB Balfour's hypothesis a.s to
the juxtaposition of two images. It is probable that when I reached
Alice's house I wa.s strongly preoccupied with Exp. XXXVIII. and
MiBB Ba.lfour's criticisms upon it. How that became mixed up with
the gallows so a.s to suggest the parrot I ca.nnot say, but there seems to
be more in it than mere coincidence.
I would remark also a.s to these five experimenta,-the only ones
which I made with Alice that day,-that they all succeeded, but only
partially. Why wa.s their SUCCeBB a.lways spoilt by mistakes' Sup-
pose Alice had sa.id "a die-a king of spades-a gallows," &c., one
might almost have affirmed that there wa.s here a demonstration of
lucidity in startling degree.
I pa.ss now to the experiment made with C1a.ire on the sa.me
day.
For various rea.sons, Olaire ha.s beeu hypnotised but seldom, but
ha.s nevertheleBB given some rather remarkable proofs of lucidity. As
a rule I ca.n put her to sleep only when she is ill, for magnetism ha.s a
soothing effect upon her, to a perfectly surprising extent. She is
readily open to suggestion, and very sensitive to the magnet, and with
her magnetism ha.s more effect in relieving and curing than any other
method of treatment.
I show her a closed envelope, of which I do not know the contents.
It wa.s then 6 o'clock in the evening, and I had just left Alice's house.
Cla.ire sa.id to me, "I see nothing; the envelope is quite dark." (When
she sees, or tries to see, it is by putting the envelope quite near to
her closed eyes, and she sa.ys that she then distinguishes the outlines.)
"It is not the drawing in the envelope which I see. I see a tree.
I have before my eyes the image of a tree."
In fact in the envelope wa.s a drawing, very confused and ill-
Digitized by Google
Jan.,1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 7
chosen, of a tombstone-a column surmounted by a bushy cyprus; it
was, therefore, also of a tree.
What part had chance in this experiment 7 It seems impossible to
say. I was no doubt thinking of Figure 60 of my paper [a tree], and
there was, on the other hand, a tree in the drawing.
I conclude that these experiments, which appear at first so simple,
are really very difficult to carry out well. But as Miss Balfour says,
with truth, imperfect as they are, they are not discouraging. We
must redouble our efforts.
CB. RICBET.
Paris, December 10th, 1888.
We showed the above communication from Professor Richet to
Miss Balfour, who sends us the following remarks ;-
I think from what M. Richet says that I cannot have expressed myself
quite clearly in my notes on his paper when I said that" the drawings
should be very simple, so that they may be fully taken in at a glance." I do
not mean by this that the lines of the drawing should be quite simple, but
that they should convey the ideaof the object represented at the first glance,
there being nothing to complicate or interfere with that idea. Thus, suppose
a drawing representing a dog. .A. well-drawn dog cannot be simple in its
lines; but it should leave no room for doubt as to its being a dog and nothing
else. If a percipient, on being given such a drawing. said it was a dog, I
hardly think that M. Richet would consider it a less convincing experiment
than if she .. described it in all its details."
No doubt experiments with playing cards lend themselves better than
drawings to the exact calculation of probabilities. But supp:lsing "lucidity"
to be a fact, it ought to be as easy for a percipient to name the objects re-
presented in a good drawing as to name a card, and the chances against the
name being COl'Mct can obviously be made very much greater with such
drawings than with cards, as a much greater number of objects can be
represented than there are cards. Care should be taken that a sufficient
number of drawings should be made and shuffled together beforehand to
ensure this result.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
Assuming that the mediums in the following cases had no
knowledge of the facts by ordinary means, it may be a question
whether they are to be regarded as telepathio, clairvoyant, or as
evidence of communication with the dead. They should be compared
with the cases given in the .Journal for November. Itwill be observed
that the knowledge shown by the mediums might all have been in
the minds of the inquirers, but that the ideas were not consciously in
8 JO'lJl1"T/,al of Society fO'1' Psychical Research. [Jan., 1889.
their minds at the moment, and in the case of Dr. Ormsby, the form
of the olothes and buttons was not oonsoiously in his memory.
G. 644.
A strange test of spiritual identity happened to the writer soon after
arrival in Colorado Springs, ten years ago. The mistreas of the boarding-
house in which she took her meals, being a Spiritualist, invited her one
evening to attend a private seance at a friend's house.
The writer waa totally unknown to all those present, and indeed an
entire stranger in the town.
After some little time a person present Willi strongly oontrolled but unable
to speak. By signs she made it evident that it Willi the stranger with whom
she wished to communicate. After many gueasea l1li to the possible unseen
presence, the medium went through the action of lace-making on a pillow.
The writer mentioned the name of an old Singhalese woman whom she had
known many years before, and immediately the medium slid down from
her chair, and seizing the writer's hand, kiased it many times, saying in the
broken English she Willi accustomed to employ, how great Willi her joy and
thankfulneas at being able to express her gratitude. It must be remembered
that this Willi an American woman, whose position at the feet of an English
atranger Willi little consonant to national feeling, and certainly most unex-
pected hy the writer, who for some 20 years had scarcely thought of poor
Loko-rainy.
On retiring for the night a piece of lace made by the Singhalese lace-
woman Willi found to have been worn by the writer. Could this have served
l1li a link 1
Box 764, Colorado Springs, U.S.A.
U. 647, abstract of.
M. A. GARSTIN.
From another informant, whose name we may not give, we learn that at
a visit to a medium, Miss Lottie Fowler, under an aasumed name, a Chinese
woman-Wang-Choa-foo-known to the narrator some 25 years before,
profeased to communicate. The name was very carefully pronounoed by the
medium. Some Chinese oolloquial expressions were used and an attempt
made to write in Chinese characters,-the results, however, being not very
intelligible to a Chinese who saw them. According to the evidence itappean
to be in a high degree improbable that Mias Fowler should have heard the
Chinese name in connection with the narrator, who tells us, moreover, that
it is not a common one. Itis not known whether Wang-Choa-foo is alive or
dead. The incident occurred at our informant's third visit to the medium.
The following was oommunicated by Dr. Ormsby, of Murphysboro,
Illinois, U.S.A., to the Religio-Philosophical Journal for July 7th,
1883. Dr. Ormsby informs us that the medium was a Mr. Drake, of
Clinton, Illinois.
G.645.
" Soon after the close of the war our eldest ohild, a boy of a little more
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 9
than four years old, died, and we buried his body with all the poignant grief
gf those who lay their loved ones down in the dust and have no assurance
that they shall ever see them again; so keen a grief that I thank God 1 can
never more suff~r it. About 14 years afterwards I formed the acquaintance
of a gentleman who claimed the ability to see and describe spirits at nearly
any time. He was not acquainted with my history, and did not know that I
had ever lost a ehild. Sitting one day i~ my office, I asked him to describe
to me any spirits he might see there. He described two old ladies, who, he
said, claimed to be my mother and grandmother, but there were no very
salient points by which they could be identified. Then he said, •There is a
little boy about four years old sitting on your foot. He looks up into your
face and says, .. This is my papa.II He is dressed in black or dark blue pants
that button on to a waist of the same colour, and has a white ruffle down the
front of the waist. The buttons on the clothing are bell-shaped; there is a
plain rim around the outside and the rest of the button is bell-shaped.' During
this description 1 asked no questions, made no comment, nor hmted that I
had lost a child. I said absolutely nothing on the subject at that tim'e. I
did not from the description recognise the clothing as any particular suit that
our child had ever worn, but when I went home I asked my wife concerning
such a suil; (not telling her anything about the seance) and she at once said,
• Yes; 1 made that suit from the coats you had worn in the army, and the
buttons were the little staff buttons that came off the sleeves at the wrist.' A
few days afterward s~tting again in my office, I asked the same party whether
he could see the child he had described to me; and if so, whether he still
wore the same suit 1 To both of these interrogatories he answered ' Yes. ' I
then asked him to describe again the buttons he had seen. He did so in about
these words: •They are bell-shaped buttons with a plain rim around the
out.side, but the bell-shaped part is ornamented. The ornamental work is
not cut; it is raised. The button is metal; what we call a brass button.'
Then stretching out his hand he said, • Why ; I see those buttons as plainly
as though I had them in my hand. I could pick one of them out from among
a thousand different kinds.' Just then the city clock struck 12, and rising I
asked him to walk home and take dinner with me. He accepted, and when
we got home I set before him a box containing many buttons of many kinds,
and requested him to select the button he had described to me. Giving the
box a shake one of the larger size of the staff buttons came to the surface, and
he instantly picked it up saying, 'There is the button.'
.. I then told him of our loss, and that his description was accurate, and
very naturally the circumstance made a very strong impression on my mind,
the more 110 as not being very enthusiastic I had made no suggestions
and asked no leading questions.
.. O. B. ORMSBY•
.. Murphysboro, Ill."
In the following two cases exceptional opportunities were enjoyed of
observing the nature of the halIlucinations. The first is so unusually
prolonged and dream-like-so unlike the general type of hallucinations
-that we should certainly have supposed it to be a dream had we not
Digitized by GOL
10 Jou,?vnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1889.
such clear evidence that the percipient was awake and in full possession
of her normal faculties at the time. The second, on the other hand,
would certainly he regarded as a waking hallucination were it not for
the evidence that the percipient was momentarily asleep, and it suggests
that other apparently waking hallucinations may sometimes be of the
same character. We know so little about hallucinations, and they
play so important a part in our investigations, that all observations
throwing light on their nature are of great value.
P. 635.
74. Durham-road, Manor Park, Little liford, Essex.
April 11th, 1888.
My brother's wife died on March 4th, 1885. From that time he was in
failing healtk. Early in February, 1887, he grew rapidly worse, and was
ordered to Bournemouth. About midnight one Saturday night (I think it was
the 23rd of February) [February 23rd, 1887, was a Wednesday; and,therefore,
Mrs. Jameson says in a later letter, her vision must have occurred on the
26th], while he was at Bournemouth, I was lying awake in bed, the gas
being full on, when I fancied that I saw a grave with a small white stone
lying, and one in an upright position. These stones suddenly changed to a
leaden hue, and upon the flat stone I saw a basket of exquisite flowers, all
white, and such as I have not beheld before nor since. On the top of all the
flowers was a very large tiger lily. Immediately following this I felt a
presence near me, but could see nothing, and it flashed into my mind that
my brother had died at Bournemouth. Shortly after I saw him in my bed-
room with a lady, whose arm was linked in his. Her face I did not
see, as they were a little in advance of me. I saw his, and recognised his
form. He was on the side nearest to me. The lady was draped as a well-
dressed bride, and veiled. Her dres8 was white and glistening. He was
in ordinary clothing. and they were both very happy. I also
heard distinctly the low murmur of voices, and heard, too, her glad
laugh. (This increased my belief that he had died, and that this lady was his
wife.) They were in mid-air. and were quite unconscious of my presence,
and seemed to glide rather than walk. After advancing a little they stood still,
my brother seeming reluctant to go on. After lingering a moment the lady
vanished, leaving my brother as one deep in thought, but still hesitating ;
she reappeared for an instant and, as it seemed, enticed_him to follow her.
But he still seemed unwilling to go with her and she vanished finally. and
after a few more moments lingering my brother followed in the same direc-
tion that the lady had vanished. He returned to London about a fortnight
after this vision and died on the 23rd of March, 1887, very suddenly, and the
memory of this wonderful experience will,I feel,be always sacred to me. The
surprising part to me is, that throughout the whole of this I was possessed
with a feeling of calmness and utter absence of fear.
MIRIAM JAMESON.
Mr. Jameson writes :-
April 7th, 1888.
My own share in the proceedings narrated was as follows. I was on the
Jan.• 1889.J Journal of Society fOT Psychical Research. 11
night referred to sitting at work in my study-not far from our bedroom-
when my wife called me and said that she felt sure her brother was in the
bedroom. I said, "You are nervous. I will come to bed." I had scarcely
done 80 when she sat up and began to describe to me what is stated in her
narrative as to seeing her brother, &c. I saw nothing. My wife was com-
posed, but her face was very animated and her eyes glistened. She looked
and spuke just lUI a good actress would in describing scene and action not
visible to her audience.
Our little son, then about 18 months old, laad been taken into our bed-
being wakeful. He was wide awake, and was prattling and trying to caress his
mother while she told me what she was seeing. His interruptions seemed to
hinder my wife from hearing what her brother said, for she hushed the little
one repeatedly.
The orphan child, about two years old, of my brother-in-law, who had
been with us from the timo of her mother's death, was sleeping in an
adjoining room.
I may add that, although I am acquainted with several well-known
Spiritualists, I have never (nor has my wife) taken much interestin Spiritual-
istic phenomena.. I mention this to show that prepossession would not
account for my wife's remarkable experience.
My own mind is still in suspense on the point whether that experience
was not purely subjective. although I cannot but admit that I have been
deeply impreaaed by the fact of the intense objective reality of that
experience to my wife.
WILLIAM JAMESON.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. Jameson informs us:-
1. That ahe ~ne\"er had any other hallucination of light, hearing, or any
other sense.
2. There was no point of coincidence with fact in the two tombstones,
the tiger lily, &c.
3. She thinks the interval of time between the vision of tombstones and
the vision of figures was about five or ten minutes. "The white stones
changed soon and suddenly, the leaden hue lasted longer, then eame the
flowers. Then I felt the unseen presence, and on turning round or over to
mylittle son, who began to chatter, these figures appeared together, as I have
told you, and I sat up in bed and watched them ateadfastly until they
vanished close to the outer wall of the house."
4. The walls, the gas full on, and all in her bedroom were visible to her,
but ahe felt that her brother and the lady had an environment of their own.
She remembers most distinctly her brother's curly hair.
5. She does not think that she had been more than usually anxious about
her brother. She had been speaking of him, and had written to him that
day.
6. She never mentioned the viaion to her brother, and does not know
anything about him on the night in question, except that she heard on the
Monday that he had seemed a little better on Saturday night.
The vision affected her very much.
Digitized by Google
12 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Ju.,l889.
P. 382. From Mr. Pratt, Camden Houle, Lower Herton. Surrey.
Decembe'I' 13th, 1882.
On December 3lat, 1856, I, Thomas Pratt, was reliding at, and carrying
on the bus\nesB of a clerical tailor, &c., at 50.6., Cambridge-Btreet, corner of
Warwick-Btreet, Pimlico, the house at that time being known aa Oxford
HOUle, Cambridge-Btreet. Mr. Gleddos, a young eurate of St. Barnabas
Church, Pimlico, came to me to pay hiB bill and order a new clerical coat
about seven o'clock in the evening, Baying he was going away for a short
time, and he wilhed the coat to be ready to fit on by the time he returned.
He was in a great hurry, having several calli to mloke before evensong, which
was at eight o·clock. He did not.give me time to finish receipting hiB bill,
but took it away with only the word Bee. written on it and left the house
immediately.
I was bUBY making a clerical coat that was wanted the next day, and had
decided to sit up to finish it. I waa accustomed to work all night frequently,
and continued working at the coat after my wife and family had retired to
bed. I kept on working and thinking about my order, planning it out in
my mind, when suddenly Mr. Gleddos appeared at the corner of the board
on which I was sitting, and at the Bame spot aa he had stood in the evening,
and looking just the Bame aa he did in the evening; the gaBlight waa
between us. At that moment the room door opened and he vanished. The
fright was so great, I felt my hair go stiff up on my head. I had leapedfrom
the board alld looked outBide the door, but BaW nothing of him. Creeping
upstairs aB best I could my knees shook so violently I did not know what
to do, but got into bed and covered my head over with the clothes and told
my wife what had happened. I had left the gaB burning, and when I got
up felt very unsettled, and could not begin tG work. About nine or a little
after Father Lyford* came to me, bringing the partly receipted bill in his
hand, and inquiring if I knew anything about what was writtell on it, aa Mr.
Gleddos was foulld dead, and the bill was on the top of the drawerB in the
bedroom where he had died. I then told him wbat I had Been in the night.
He seemed very much shocked, and told me not to talk about it.
As the day went on and I became more calm, I commenced to finish the
coat. Now this will, I think, be the most important part of my ghost story.
I bad finisbed both halves of the coat, and only the back seam remained to
be joined. It was this middle seam I was working at, and had sewn up to
between the shoulders when Mr. Gleddos appeared, and here I found my
needle as I bad left it. As I waa about to begin, I was surprised at the last
part of the back stitching for hem ; the stitches were all shapes and not one
alike. This convinced me that I had been asleep, although my hand had
used the needle at the same time. Having convinced myselfit was a dream,
the door coming open had woke me from my sleep, which could not have
been altogether more than half a minute.
The door of the room waB in the habit of coming open with the least
* The Rev. Charles Lyford wlis curate at the Bame church, but was called
Father by those who knew him best.
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1889.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. 13
vibration caused by wind, and from these two circumstances I came to the
conclusion that I had dreamed of seeing him only. Had not these things
come to my knowledge in this way as I have described them, I should have
believed I had seen a real ghost, and nothing would perhaps have convinced
me to the contrary. But I feel quite cenain I did not see him with my eyes
I work by, although at the time everything appeared to favour the belief of
an apparition.
THOMAS PR..u.'T.
[Mrs. Pratt is now dead. The fact of the sudden death of Mr.
Gleddos, which took place about 8 a.m., has been independently
verified.-E.G.J
In this second case-Mr. Pratt's-there is a. coincidence which is
certainly noteworthy. It is a hallucination occurring a few hours
before a sudden death, and it might be regarded as possibly either
premonitory or telepathic ;-coinciding on the telepathic hypothesis
with feelings premonitory of death on the part of the agent. On the
other hand it must not be forgotten that hallucinations apparently
purely subjective, sometimes take the forrn of after-images (see
Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I., p. 502), and that this particular case
much resembles that of the lady who "had a vivid waking vision of a
servant who had startled her some hours before."
L. 822 (Borderland).
The following is at any rate an interesting experience, a.nd there
seems to be some reason for thinking that it may have been a ca.se
of "telepathic clairvoyance"-the vision representing an actual scene.
It should be compared with cases at· the end of Chapter VI., Vol. I.
of Phantasms of the Living, pp. 255-266, with the la.st section of
Chapter VIII., and with case (20) Chapter V.
April 4th, 1888.
Your letter to the Telegraph of March 27th, brought to my memory an
incident that occurred to me some years since-in fact, in 1866. I might
preface my statement by saying that I am not in the least superstitious.
For some years previous to 1866 I had been residing in B-- as agent
for a large firm in London. Soon after my arrival in B-, I took apart-
menta in the suburbs, in a house kept by two sisters, one a maiden lady, the
other a widow with two daughters. To make a long story short, I fell in
love with the youngest daughter, proposed and was accepted. although
her mother always was very much opposed to it. Time passed on
and I heard of a much better appointment. I threw up the one I had
and came to London to secure the other, without telling anyone in
B-anything about it. I had been in London about five weeks, when,
one Sunday evening, feeling irritable and dull, I retired to rest. much
earlier ~an usual. I had been in bed BOme time trying to court sleep, when
Digitized by Google
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1889.
suddenly at one end of the room there appeared two figures, and aa they
developed one was my fiancee, the other the man whom I had always looked
on as my greatest friend and " chum" in B--. There was the room-my
room-the fireplace, and every particular true to the original, and the
attitude of the two-he holding her hand, and her troubled look left no
doubt in my mind that he was proposing to her. No looner had I grasped
the circumstances of the ca.ae than the vision melted and was gone ; and now
comes what I consider the remarkable part. On the following Tuesday I
ha.d a letter from the young lady's brother, informing me that her mother
had prevailed on her to break off her engagement with me, and one from the
young lady herself returning all my presents, and stating that her mother
had forbidden her to correspond with me further; and in le88 than a month
I heard from a mutual friend in B- - that the young lady was engaged to
the man I had seen in the vision.
Being rather a sore point at the time, I never mentioned the vision to
any of my friends or relatives at the time, feeling convinced that they would
say it was a dream. But I know that I was as wide awake at the time as 1
am now; and while it lasted I had the sensation of being entranced, utterly
unable to move, but no fright or unplea.aant feeling. I can only compare it
to a di8801ving view, such as you see sometimes produced by a magic lantern.
I long imagined that I had a rival in the field, but never suspected my
particular" chum" for a moment.
After it had pa88ed away (the vision), I tried to consider what it could
be, and came to the conclusion that it was animal magnetism, a subject that
had created some stir in the papers and magazines some time previously. I
give you the account for what it is worth. It haa always been a riddle to me
for which I have never been able to find the solution.
(Signed) J. H S-.
After a personal interview with Mr. S., Mr. G. A. Smith writes:-
Aprill9th, 1888.
I saw Mr. S. to-day. Whatever his impre88ion may have been-waking or
sleeping-there is no doubt that it was more vivid than any other subjective
sensation he has ever had. He says ha never dreaml that he knows of-at
least he forgets them immediately upon waking ; but he recovered himself
from this experience with a distinct feeling that he had encountered some-
thing different from a dream : he brought away a more vivid recollection of
the scene, of the attitude, dreBB and expre88ions of the persons seen than he
has ever done from any dream, and he was struck at the time with the
curious condition of feeling present in the B-room as a spectator, and yet
having a sort of side kllowledge that he was in his own bed. And when the
thing was over he had no recognisable sensation of having just woke; he
could realise no break of consciousness whatever. He hadn" the faintest
ground for suspicion that his friend would supplant him, and felt perfectly
assured of the young lady's devotion to himself. He says he
never remembers meeting with any similar cases, and he seems to have no
tendency towards the marvellous. Quite the contrary. But he has always
Digitized by Google
Jan.,1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 15
held the view' that the couple were really engaged as he saw them in the
vision on that Sunday evening, and that their minds, both stirred with the
idea of the injustice being .lone to him at the moment, might somehow have
acted upon him 80 as to call up the vision to his view. Moreover the howr
and evening(lO o'clock Sunday)would be just the occasion most likely for such
an interview in B-- ; the room,too, was the most probable one for it to have
really occurred in. A point not mentioned in his letter is that he noticed
exactly how the lady was attired in the vision, and he observed particularly
that she wore a blue silk dress that was unfamiliar to him. A few weeks later,
on a brief stay in B·--, finally setUing his affairs inthat town, he passed the
lady in the street, when she was wearing a blue silk dress.
(Signed) G. A. SMITH.
THE FOX SISTERS.
In the last number of the JfYlllrnal there was a note on the con-
fessions of the Fox sisters, Mrs. Kane and Mrs. Jencken.
Since then a letter has been received from Mrs. J encken by a friend of
hers, in London and published in Light, in which her share in the alleged
confession is-by implication though not expressly-denied. It seems
Qnly fair to Mrs. Jencken to print this letter her~.
N01!Ilmber 17th, 1888.
" My DEAR MRS. COTTBLL,-I would have written to you before this, but
my surprise was so great on my arrival to hear of Maggie's exposure of
.Spiritualism that I had no heart to write to anyone.
The manager of the affair engaged the Academy of Music, the very
largest place of entertainment in New York City; it was filled to overfto1cing.
They made 1,500doI. clear. I have' often wished I bad remained witb
you, and if I had the means I would now return, to get out of all this.
I think now I could make money in proving that tbe knoc~ngs are not
made with the toes. So many people come to me to ask me about this
exposure of Maggie's tbat I have to deny myself to them.
They are hard at work to expose the whole thing if they can; but they
certainly cannot.
Maggie is giving public exposures in all the large places in America,
but I have only seen her once since I arrived.
(Signed) K. F. JENCKEN.
Our attribution to Mrs. J encken of a share in the confession was
based on the authority of several uncontradicted statements which had
appeared in American journals. Among statements of this kind the
following extract from the Religio-Philo8ophical Jowrnal (a leading
Spiritualistic paper in America), dated November 24th, 1888, may be
read with interest in connection with Mrs. J encken's letter :-
On Thursday evening of last week [that is, November 15th, two' days
Digitized by Google
16 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1889.
before the letter waa written]. at Rochester, NY., Mrs. Kate Fox
Jencken joined forces with" Prof8880r" Star, who baa for yeaI'll made his
living aa an exposer of Spiritualism. Kate does not seem to have added
much to the show, aaide from the prestige of her presence.
We may note further that the news of Mrs. J encken's co-operation
with her sister in "exposure" appears to have been unquestioningly
accepted as true by the friends no less than the foes of Spiritualism
in England. The following paragraph, for instance, appeared in Light
of November 3rd :-
We learn from America that Mra. J encken and Mrs. Kane, two of the
Fox sistera, have started on an exposure tour, in which they apparently
propose to expose themselves first of all, and their dupes (if any) afterwards.
It is always painful to be compelled to write of those whose
namel are familiar amongst us otherwise ~haR in terms of commendation.
But the issues at stake in Spiritualism are of wider import than the
character of any individual. Painful, therefore, aa it may be, we are
compelled to Bay that no credence is to be attached to anything that these
ladies may Bay. Mra. Jencken haa for a long time been a victim to a
deplorable habit which haa apparently destroyed her moral consciousness,
and rendered anything she may say or do unworthy of attention.
As was said in the note that appeared in the Journal for Decem-
ber, little weight can be attached to what mediums who expose
themselves may say, since they confess themselves deceivers; but in
this caae the confesSion seems to have been supported by experimental
demonstration. and it would be strange on any hypothesis but that of
trickery, that the raps should be capable of voluntary production for ex-
posure purposes, and not capable of production when Professors Flint,
Lee and Coventry, of Buffalo, in 1851, arranged the conditions 80 as
to prevent the action of the joints by which, in their opinion (founded
on experiments with another person), they were caused.' A brief
account of their experiments condensed from Capron's Modwrn
Spiritualism, published in 1856, will be found in Proceedings, Vol. IV.
p.47.
THE THIRD VOLUME OF THE JOURNAL.
The third volume of the J()'I.(II"1I4l ends with the December number.
Title-page and index are issued with this number. Covers for binding
may be purchased at Is. each, post free. Application to be made to
the Assistant-Secretary, 19, Buckingham-street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
The price ofthe volume, post free, will be lOs. Nearly all the numbers
can be purchased separately, to complete sets, at 6d. each.
Digitized by Google
