{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v5_n2_feb_2009.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V5 N2 Feb 2009","mylang":"de"}
Archived by
Garth Willey
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price
Volume 5, No 2: February 2009
EST 2004
Highlights of this issue:
William Crookes biography - Barry Wiley Comments 39
Mesmeric Mediumship: The case of Emma - Dr. Carlos S. Alvarado 43
Autobiographical Sketch – Ernesto Bozzano 52
1930s Scottish medium photographed in infrared 54
The origin of Allan Kardec’s “Spirits Book” – Anna Blackwell 55
What was the first Spiritualist Newspaper? – Leslie Price 58
Reminiscences of a remarkable medium – H. A. Dallas 59
Mr. W.H. Terry: - A pioneer Australian Spiritualist – Banner of Light 64
Books for sale 67
How to obtain this Journal by email 68
=========================================
In the last issue, we changed from Psypioneer Newsletter, to Psypioneer Journal
and introduced our new logo.
Unfortunately, some subscribers received their journal with the wrong Psypioneer
est. date, stating it as 2005; this should have read est. 2004.
38
WILLIAM CROOKES – ANNA EVA FAY
BIOGRAPHIES
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: -
We called attention in our July 2008 issue to a new biography of William
Crookes,1
which has however no mention of the recent biography of Annie Fay, which
we had previously noted. 2
Barry Wiley, author of the Fay study has kindly made the following comments: -
Given the some twenty years or so of research that went into my biography of
Anna Eva Fay [The Indescribable Phenomenon: the Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay,
Hermetic Press, 2005]3
which included a great deal of research into the life of William
Crookes, I anticipated that Professor Brock’s new biography of Crookes would include
substantial new materials, including, perhaps, new insights into the most notorious period
of Crookes’ long life, the Spiritualistic investigations of 1871-1875.
Unfortunately, that has not been the case, particularly with the respect to the last
mediumistic investigation which Crookes undertook in February, 1875, with Anna Eva
Fay. As Crookes publicly stated that the February 19th
séance was, in fact, a genuine
demonstration of a “non-human” force, a statement to which all of the other observers
that evening, including Francis Galton and William Huggins, agreed, it would seem that
Professor Brock would have been very careful of his facts and conclusions in Chapter 11.
But he was not.
Beginning first in Chapter 10, with the Cromwell Varley investigation of Florence
Cook using a galvanometer, Brock makes the strange statement: “Florence was placed in
the circuit by attaching wires to her wrists with blotting paper moistened with a
conducting solution.” This statement makes no sense as written. In fact, the wires from
the galvanometer were soldered to platinum wires that were, in turn, soldered to gold
sovereigns which then were pressed against the moistened blotting paper and held tightly
against her wrist with elastic bands.
In his exhaustive recreation of the Varley galvanometer tests, Christopher J.
Stephenson, a member of the SPR, which he wrote up for the Proc. S.P.R., April, 1966,
Vol. 54, Part 198, [“Further Comments on Cromwell Varley’s Electrical Test on Florence
Cook”] determined three things from his work. 1) That all of the reported phenomena
1
William Crookes: A Major Reconsideration: - William Crookes and the Commercialization of Science by
William H. Brock, Ashgate (UK), 2008. See: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.7July08..pdf
2
Doubts About Control of Mediums by Crookes: -
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP14_2005.pdf
3
The Indescribable Phenomenon by Barry H. Wiley, Hermetic Press, Inc - http://www.hermeticpress.com
39
regarding the apparent materialization of Katie King could be accomplished without
Cook breaking the electrical circuit; 2) That Varley deceived himself with his untested
conclusions regarding how the galvanometer would react under various séance conditions
which reinforced his conclusion that Cook was genuine. (Crookes would later make
similar confident statements based only on his perceptions, not experimental
experience.); 3) That, fake or genuine, the Varley arrangement could prove nothing.
In Chapter 11, p. 195, Brock makes many initial statements that are wrong. He
says “although the [AEF] act was familiar in music halls and vaudeville”. No, the act was
not so familiar. Fay did not go into vaudeville until 1894 with the Cotton Bandage Test
forming one half of her program and mindreading, “Somnolency”, being the other.
Brock states that Fay had an early interest in Theosophy and sat at the feet of
HPB. No. She never met HPB as Blavatsky had left New York for India before AEF
arrived, and AEF did not take up Theosophy until the late 1880’s. AEF focused on
making her living as a medium doing a dark séance then adding the Cotton Bandage Test
as her light séance.
Arriving in Great Britain, AEF and Henry Cummings Fay promoted their
performances as they had in the U.S., in sharp contrast to the quieter mode of advertising
customary in the UK which relied more on word of mouth. Compared to America, there
were far fewer professional public mediums, with British Spiritualism being more
focused on family circles. Though the press, general and Spiritualist, acknowledged the
remarkable phenomena that appeared so regularly at AEF’s séances; AEF was roundly
criticized for her “rogue and vagabond” mode of advertising. But it raised her profile and
brought in the money.
P.197. Brock states that the electrical arrangement used with AEF was the same
as with Cook. No. At a trivial level, Varley used a series resistance while Crookes (who
had been using galvanometers since 1872, based on a note written to his assistant Charles
H. Gimingham, November 5, 1872) always used a shunt resistance, a difference that had
no impact on the tests. But the most critical aspect was the medium’s interface with the
circuit. Varley used small gold coins held against Cook’s wrists with elastic bands;
Crookes, however, used brass handles wrapped with brine-soaked linen which, with the
broader area of contact with the palm, provided a much lower more stable resistance,
thereby ensuring that AEF’s body resistance would effectively be the only resistance in
the circuit.
Also on page 198, Brock postulates, “It seems more likely that by sliding one
wrist and forearm along the handle keeping the circuit closed by forearm and elbow, and
other bodily contortions, the galvanometer would not be affected.” No. Various other
plausible solutions have been offered by Houdini, Maskelyne and many others, all of
which ignored the conditions of the séance and the phenomena reported, a key condition
of which was that on the 19th
Galton and Huggins had nailed the handles down at the
widest possible positions on the table without having warned either Crookes or Fay that
they were going to do it. All of the proposed solutions resulted in only one hand being
40
freed. Unlike Cook, who did not need to be free of the circuit to produce her
materialization, AEF had to be completely free of the brass handles to accomplish the
effects reported on the 19th
both during and after the séance. She had to be able to walk
about the darkened library to retrieve books, unlock Crookes’ desk to get a pack of
cigarettes, play a violin and place a piece of china on a table at the far end of Crookes’
library. The response time of the galvanometer was slow, but not that slow.
Brock, also, does not inform the reader that no magician or psychical researcher,
has ever duplicated the AEF séance under the same conditions as reported. At the time,
Alfred Russel Wallace insisted that those criticizing Crookes for his public endorsement
of AEF, should first be required to duplicate her performance under the same conditions,
and if successful, then criticize Crookes. Certainly a rational attitude, but no one,
including W. B. Carpenter, paid any attention to it. Or has since.
Brock also states on p. 198, that AEF was a highly competent illusionist. No. AEF
did not work with illusions, basically the Asrah floating woman and the rapping hand,
until well into her vaudeville career in the early 1900’s. She often had a magician in her
vaudeville troupe. Also, he states that she was voted a member of the Magic Circle in
1912. No. She was voted the first Honorary Lady Associate of the Magic Circle. There
were no female members of the Magic Circle until almost eighty years later. The Circle
Secretary visited AEF at her hotel to inform her of the honor, while stating that she could
only attend Ladies Night meetings. She was not welcome at the regular meetings. AEF
sent a polite acceptance offering to be of whatever service she could to the Circle – and
paid the fee required. She never attended a meeting, nor did any Circle member every call
on her with questions.
P.198, note 14. Professor Brock says that AEF sued her son John. No. AEF never
sued her son. John and his wife, Eva, sued one of their former employees for stealing
their act – they lost. Brock apparently does not realize the marked difference between
AEF and her daughter-in-law, Eva Fay. He also tells the reader that AEF retired in 1917
and moved to a farm in New Hampshire to care for Belgian war orphans. No. The farm
story came from one small newspaper clipping. There is no record of any farm in NH
owned by Anna Eva Fay Pingree. She never mentioned the farm again. Milbourne
Christopher included the farm story in his chapter on AEF in his book Mediums, Mystics
and the Occult. Eric Dingwall took the story from Christopher and repeated it in his book
Critic’s Dilemma. Also, AEF retired in 1924, not 1917, and she retired to her palatial
home, Heathman Manor, in Melrose Highlands, MA. Her Melrose estate included two
other houses, a forty-foot long log cabin in which she taught courses in Theosophy, and a
stable which became a garage for her many automobiles. At one time AEF owned eight
automobiles at a time when few Americans owned even one.
P.199. Brock states that the Washington Irving Bishop exposure of the AEF
séances appeared in the Spiritualist journal Banner of Light. No. Luther Colby, editor of
the Banner, hated Bishop and would have never published anything from the exposer’s
pen. In fact, Bishop’s Fay exposure appeared Wednesday, April 12, 1876, in the New
York Daily Graphic, a notorious scandal sheet, under the title “The Greatest Humbug”.
p41, six lines up, delete words AT A TIME.
41
P.199. Brock lists references published by Dingwall and Houdini (Brock omits
Walter Franklin Prince, to whom AEF spun yet another version just three months before
her death) regarding admissions by AEF that she had cheated Crookes. No. The AEF
stories related in A Magician Among the Spirits and in Dingwall’s Critic’s Dilemma
regarding how she had fooled Crookes are not true, and the conversations quoted, in fact,
most likely never took place. For example, on July 8, 1924, Houdini visited AEF at
Heathman Manor for five hours. One of his first questions which he records in the notes
he made from the visit, was how had she beaten the Crookes galvanometer? Why did he
ask if he had already published her answer? As it is, the answer that AEF gave him was
so far-fetched that even Houdini admitted in his notes that he could not believe it. But
why did he ask if he already knew?
There are other statements in the book, but the above is sufficient to show that
Professor Brock is relatively unfamiliar with the history of magic and Spiritualism, and
apparently feels that AEF is a secondary character in the arc of the Crookes story. If she
were not the last medium endorsed as genuine by Crookes, I would have some sympathy
for Professor Brock’s position. But Crookes said she was genuine, on the 19th
and only on
the 19th
. He never issued a blanket endorsement of AEF, regardless of the later
advertising that AEF used up until 1894. And it is reasonably clear how AEF beat the
Crookes galvanometer test on the 19th. You’ll find it in Chapter 8 of my book.
A number of years ago when I first began serious interest in AEF, I kept
encountering the name, Mostyn Gilbert. And the first time I contacted Dingwall, he
referred all questions to Mostyn, declining to answer any himself. Mostyn and I finally
met at Fraser Nichol’s house in Lexington, MA, which was less than a mile from my own
home in Lexington. We discovered that our interests complemented each other, and we
were not competitors. From that time on, Mostyn and I traded all the Fay information we
collected. Mostyn stayed in my house, while I stayed in his. But on his last visit, he was
obviously becoming quite ill, and his passage home by ship was a difficult crossing.
When he went to a doctor, it was determined that he had cancer. Shortly before he died,
Mostyn left a note for me that was forwarded by Inge, Mostyn’s wife. He asked me to
finish the project, which was the AEF biography. Originally, we had agreed that Mostyn
would do the biography while I would write the play. At Mostyn’s request, therefore, I
dropped everything to begin the detailed research necessary to do the biography which on
publication in 2005 was dedicated to Mostyn. The play remains unfinished.
That Sir William Crookes is deserving of a new biography is beyond question,
and Professor Brock is to be complimented for taking on the work. It is to be regretted
that he did not dig deeper in his research.
_____________
42
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: -
Dr. Carlos S. Alvarado4
is affiliated with the Division of Perceptual Studies,
Department of Psychiatry and Neurobehavioral Sciences, at the University of Virginia.
4
See: - An interview with Dr. Carlos S. Alvarado by Michael Tymn -
http://metgat.gaia.com/blog/2008/12/an_interview_with_dr_carlos_s_alvarado
43
Mesmeric Mediumship: The Case of Emma
Carlos S. Alvarado (1)
While a good part of the modern historical discussions of mediumship focus on the
nineteenth-century (e.g., Owen, 1990), it is well known that individuals claiming to
receive recurrent, and sometimes controlled, communications from the dead existed in
previous times, coming from antiquity (Ogden, 2001; Paton, 1921). Podmore (1902),
among others, has reminded us of the activities of Swedenborg and several other
individuals and movements that presented examples of mediumship before the
appearance of the Fox sisters and of the development of modern spiritualism. (2) He also
noticed that mesmerism also presented interesting cases of phenomena said to have been
produced by spirits of the dead acting through mesmerized individuals (Podmore, 1902,
Chapter 6, Vol. 1). (3) An example was Cahagnet (1851), who reported that his
somnambules saw and interacted with presumed spirits of the dead. Another example,
and the topic of this paper, was an English woman called Emma. The purpose of this
article is to present excerpts of the “mediumistic” performances of Emma.
Emma’s Mesmeric Performances
The performances of Emma are reported in the book of British physician Joseph W.
Haddock Somnolism & Psycheism (1851). (4) Emma, whose initials were E.L., was
described by Haddock to be a young woman, 24 years of age by December of 1850, from
Worcestershire. Of “rather sallow complexion, and of a nervous-bilious temperament,”
(p. 84) she was said not to be able of much exertion. Emma started working in Haddock’s
house as a servant in 1846. Her phenomena, similar to those of many other somnambules,
were quite varied. Haddock presented summaries of her clairvoyance at a distance, in
some cases of which she was able to find lost money or property. In addition Emma
showed trances, amnesia of the trance state, and catalepsy. She also presented behaviours
suggesting she was sensitive to Haddock’s mental suggestions, to his mesmerizing other
people at a distance, and to magnets located close by.
Emma and the “Other” World
In a section of his book Haddock described mediumistic phenomena involving apparent
contact with spirits. This was chapter nine, entitled “Extasis, or Trance.” Haddock
referred to extasis as a “sort of swoon” under which “the mind became, as it were,
loosened from its bodily connection, and could, by this means, obtain a perception of
objects, and a knowledge of things not cognizable to the ordinary senses” (p. 180). The
ancients, he wrote, used the word extasis to describe this “because the mind thus stood,
comparatively, out of the body” (p. 180). Haddock stated that this condition appeared to
be “a merely partial uncovering of the veil which conceals ‘the things unseen;’ and
Extatics may be considered as travellers in an unknown country, enabled to see
something of its nature, and to report, according to the degree of their perception, or
powers of observation” (p. 180).
44
Haddock’s account of the phenomena lack many important details such as information
about the identity of the “Lady” that Emma was in contact with. Furthermore, with the
exception of some quotes coming from Emma’s experiences, which most probably are
reconstructions by the author, the book presents mainly Haddock’s account of the events.
The material reprinted here presents themes of spirit communications similar to those
found in the early spiritualistic literature. Some of these includes discussions of death as
the exit of the spirit from the body (Hare, 1855), the existence of spiritual spheres and
places where spirits reside (Davis, 1867), and visions of people and places, including
mentions of gardens (Edmonds & Dexter, 1854).
The following are long excerpts from Haddock’s book, which I transcribe as a reminder
of the existence of these mesmeric phenomenon:
Frequently during the spring and summer of 1848, Emma would, in the
mesmeric state, speak of the scenery and nature of the spirit-world, in such a way
as to impress the beholder with a conviction, that the descriptions she gave could
not be the result of any previously acquired knowledge, or of an active
imagination. She also, occasionally, spoke of things which had actually occurred,
but which it was impossible for her to know by any ordinary means . . . . (p. 181)
In these states of spontaneous extasis she preserved a recollection, at times, of
the place she was actually in, and of the persons by whom she was surrounded:
and, at the same time, she had a distinct sensational perception of a higher and
spiritual state of existence, and of a class of beings living in such a state. She
would speak of these things while in the trance; and on her return to the normal
state, she could recollect, and, with a feeling of awe and diffidence, again describe
what she had seen and heard. During the first trance of four hours’ duration,
which occurred on the 28th of September, 1848, and was witnessed by several
highly respectable gentlemen from Manchester, she was so far elevated in her
perceptions, that she spoke of this world as the other world, just as if she had
passed from this life by death. She said, also, that the persons in the room with
her, appeared only like shadows, and a long way from her. Upon examination, she
was found, in this and other trances, insensible to pain, and her eyes upturned, as
in the ordinary mesmeric state, and her limbs continued flexible. At times, she
would seem wholly indrawn; and then she would, as it were, return and speak of
what was passing before her mental vision. But, in a subsequent trance, of six
hours’ duration, she became, for a part of it, quite insensible to all outward things,
and perfectly cataleptic from head to foot. A gentleman, who was with me on this
occasion, assisted me to raise her body, and we found it as stiff and inflexible as a
log of wood. (p. 184)
The subject of these trances would afford matter for many pages; but some
were of a private character, and, although highly interesting to the parties
concerned, would not be interesting to others, except as illustrating the nature of
the spirit’s home, and some of the general laws by which spiritual associations are
regulated . . . . (p. 184-185)
45
A general statement of Emma’s revealments while in the state of extasis, will
enable the reader more fully to comprehend the particular details of individual
trances. Man is represented as a spiritual being, rising from what she calls “the
shell” of the dead material body, immediately after death; or as soon as the
connection between the soul and its material covering is completely severed,
which she says, does not sometimes occur, until a day or two after what appears
as death. The risen and emancipated spirit, is a perfectly organised existence,
preserving the human form, and having a complete sensational perception of his
fellow spiritual beings, and of the beautiful scenery of the spiritual spheres; that
is, provided he possessed during his natural life, a moral state in harmony with
those spheres. The male and female sex retaining all the characteristics necessary
to a spiritual state of existence, and living together in a state of angelic union,
being united as to their minds. Those who have been interiorly united here,
coming into a state of union hereafter; those who have not been mentally united
here, seek their true mental counterpart hereafter. She represents male and female
spiritual beings thus united, appearing at a distance as one, and says they are not
called two, nor the married, but THE ONE. Infants and young children who have
passed from this world by death, are stated to grow to a state of adolescence, but
more speedily than in the natural world. During infancy, and early childhood, they
are confided to the care of good female spirits, or angels, whose delight it is, to
instruct them by various methods, especially by representations of things, which
form a sort of pictorial teaching. These spiritual spheres are not located in the
distant regions of space, or in the sun, or heavenly bodies; but are connected
apparently with our own planet, and the spiritual inhabitants are in close
association with us, and exercise an influence over us, although we are
unconscious of it . . . . In the highest state of extasis, she appeared to herself to be
among spiritual beings as one of themselves, at home, and surrounded by objects
which to her were real, and which appeared more real, than the shadowy beings,
with whom she was naturally associated. At other times, she said, that she
appeared to the spiritual beings as shadowy, and her own perceptions were
proportionably obscure. The first receptacle, or common plane of departed spirits,
she describes as a sort of middle state or place, from which the good, as they
become prepared, ascend gradually, to higher and more delightful places; those
that are the best having higher abodes than the others. All, she says, are welcomed
by angelic spirits on their arrival in the spirit-world; but the evil will not associate
with the good, and recede of their own accord, more or less rapidly, to darker
places below this middle state, and which appeared also to be to the left: but of
these darker places she had not seen so much, as of the abodes of the good . . . .
(pp. 185-187)
I have said, that before Emma became the subject of the extatic state, she had,
in the ordinary mesmeric state, began to speak frequently of spiritual objects and
beings. I soon perceived, that one being, under whose influence she seemed to be,
and of whom she frequently spoke, had been most nearly related to me, while in
this world, but she had departed this life for about ten years when the first of these
trances occurred. Emma always says that this “lady,” as I will call her, following
46
Emma’s phraseology, “helps her” in all serious cases of illness, and the like, but
not in mere secular, or trifling cases . . . . She also spoke of a fountain of crystal
water, in which, she said, the “lady” bathed her, before she could follow her to
behold the scenery she afterwards described . . . . The following narrative will
shew that, at least, some of the matters connected with these trances, cannot be
accounted for by resolving them into mere imaginative action; but that there is a
reality in her extatic perceptions and that she then possesses a super-sensual gift.
(pp. 187-188)
In the month of July, 1848, she told me, on a Saturday evening, while in the
mesmeric state, that the “lady was coming to her, in the night between Sunday
and Monday, and that she would show her a book with some writing in, which she
was to take and shew to me;” and further, that the “lady would come to her again,
at a quarter past nine on Monday morning when she would know more about it.” I
found her, as usual, on awaking, ignorant of what had transpired, and carefully
concealed it from her . . . . From the general drift of her remarks, and her
connecting the books and the writing with the “lady,” I concluded, that, if there
was any truth in her statements, one of three books was intended; two of these
were in the house, the other, a small pocket-bible, was not in the house; but
experience having convinced me of the correctness of her predictions, I got this
little bible, unknown to her, and put it, with the other two books, on the shelves
with many more, taking care not to put them together. In the night she got up in a
state very similar, if not quite like somnambulism, and descending two flights of
stairs, unheard by me, she went to the book-shelves, and selected this very pocket-
bible, and ascending the stairs with it, came to my room, the opening of the door
of which aroused me. She walked up to me, and addressing me in the peculiar
way she then used to do, when mesmerised, she said,—“I have brought you a
book which the ‘lady’ wishes you to read to me.” She was holding the book open
over the top of her head, with the inside of the book next her. This I could see by
the twilight; but, as I could not see whereabouts the book was opened, I went to
get a candle for that purpose, but, in doing so, owing to the darkness, I
inadvertently knocked the book out of her hand. She picked it up, and speedily
found the place again, by turning over the pages, right and left, over her head, in
her usual mesmeric manner, until she said she had found the same place again.
The passage selected was Joshua, ch. i. vv. 8, 9 . . . . I read the passage to her; she
said, “Yes! that is it,—‘Be of good courage,’ that is what the lady reads.” When I
began to read beyond the tenth verse, she stopped me, saying, “the lady did not
read that.” She appeared quite pleased and relieved by my reading to her, and
soon spontaneously awoke . . . . She also told me circumstances connected with
the history of that book [the Bible], which, she said, the lady told her, and in
which the “lady was concerned; which I am positive she could not know by any
ordinary means; for some were only known to myself! She was asked to tell by
what means she found the passage, as she could not read, and was also in the
dark? She replied, that the “‘lady’ had a similar book, but a larger one, open upon
the left arm, where it lay without any weight, and that the ‘lady’ pointed, with the
right hand, to the same pages and text: That her own hands seemed guided in their
47
movements by the ‘lady’s’ hand; and that when she had got to the right place, she
could no longer turn the pages, either to the right or left!” How far this was fancy,
or some real quasi magnetic drawing, it is impossible rightly to determine; but it
is certain, that on trying her with the same bible a few months afterwards, when
she had lost the connecting influence, she could not, after repeated trials, find the
passage as she previously had done . . . . (p. 188-190)
On Thursday, September 28th, 1848, Emma went into a trance she had foretold
nearly two months before: this was the most remarkable she had, and lasted nearly
four hours . . . . I . . . found her seated in a chair, partially cataleptic, with her eyes
fixed, wide open, and staring, as it were, into vacuity. I spoke to her; but, at first,
she did not hear me; I then saw her eyes roll upwards and inwards, as in the
mesmeric state, and then the eyelids closed. She re quested me “not to take her
away,” that is, not to interfere with the trance, which I promised, and led her to a
more convenient place, where she might recline. I found it was with difficulty she
could stand, and I had to support her to the seat prepared for her. She soon sunk
into a complete sort of lethargy; occasionally moving her jaws, as if eating; at
other times, speaking, as if to invisible personages: the principal remarks were
questions, or such observations as seemed to repeat the answers she had received.
After speaking, she appeared conscious of our presence, and rationally replied to
what was said to her, and described what was visible to her perceptions. Then she
relapsed into a state of unconsciousness to outward things, and, after a time,
returned to the consciousness of our presence. These alternations continued to the
close; but some minutes before arousing, her manner indicated that a change was
passing over her. When she returned to the normal state, she was quite low and
prostrated, and it was some hours before she could take any food . . . . The
following paragraphs contain, in nearly her own words, the substance of what she
saw and heard during this, and another similar trance, as elicited by questions put
during, and after, the trance, and from her own recollections of what had
transpired. (pp. 191-193)
“When sitting in the chair, I felt as if something run up me, and I went mazy,
and the room seemed as if it opened, and I was in another place, although I had
some knowledge that I was still in the room; my eyes were open, and I could not
shut them. Afterwards, when they were shut, it seemed as if they were open. At
first, many beings came to me, and presently I seemed to be with them as one of
themselves; this was after I was removed to the other seat; for taking me up stairs,
seemed to draw me away from them. I did not feel strange, or any alarm, nor did
they appear to think me strange or different to themselves. I felt with them just as
I do now with you. There were many: some that I did not know, and some that I
did know; some had been my companions when a child, and had been dead for
years, but they knew me, and were glad to see me, and took me about gardens,
like paradise gardens. The ‘lady’ came first, and many others with her; she was
with me the whole time. When I took hold of your hand, she looked and smiled,
and seemed pleased. It appeared to me nearly the same each time I have been. I
saw each time that, from the place where I entered this spirit-world, there was a
48
way leading to the right, upwards, to the good middle place; and away to the left,
downwards, to the bad middle place, and there was a worse place lower down, but
I did not see to it. All along the way leading to the good middle place, there were
trees and flowers of various kinds growing, and writings up (inscriptions) in many
places. The letters were of different kinds and colours, but I could not tell what
they meant. It was told me, that they were directions and instructions, and that I
must learn to read, that I may know what they mean. The good middle place
seemed very large, and very many were there. Most that were there, staying there,
were clothed in plain white loose dresses. I saw higher up, to the top of a hill,
where, it was told me, angels lived. I did not go straight up, but slanting to the
side; the angels who came to meet me, came a nearer way than I went. After
going to the right, upwards, for some time, I came to a beautiful fountain, or lake
(pond, she sometimes called it,) silvery looking. A beautiful brook, or river,
flowed from the top of the hill, down into the fountain. I never saw such beautiful
crystal and shining water anywhere else. Round this fountain, or lake, and on each
side of the river, there grew the most beautiful flowers and trees I ever saw. The
leaves which fell off these trees sparkled like gold and silver, as they lay along
upon the ground. If a leaf fell off a tree, another leaf sprang forth directly, and the
trees did not become bare, as here. The same, if a flower was plucked, another
immediately sprang forth. No one can go up the hill until they have been bathed in
that fountain; I had to bathe in it, and drink the water, before I could ascend; then
you could go up on either side of the river. It was in this fountain I saw the
beautiful fish I before spoke of, which was given me to eat; and it was in the
walks about this river that I saw the fruit grow of which I ate. This fruit they eat
as bread, but it is not bread, but most delicious fruit. It is something like an
orange, with seeds in it: “—afterwards, she compared it to a pear, sweet, and with
seeds in it, — possibly something that seemed like a fig, or pomegranate.” After
bathing in the fountain, and going up the hill, I came down, and we sat down,
round and near the fountain, and eat of the fruit, and many things were shown and
told me.” (pp. 193-195)
I . . . found that matters on which I had enquired in the mesmeric state, were
sometimes referred to, and she has told me when those states of extasis would
arise, in which she could learn things that she could not know by ordinary
mesmerism. These, generally, were cases in which some person involved in the
enquiry, had departed this life. (p. 201)
In one case, where, as an experiment, an enquiry was being made relative to a
missing will, she told me, not only what I asked her, but spoke of other things
which neither myself nor she knew anything . . . about, nor had I been asked about
what she said; but I was afterwards informed that what she said was correct. This
was a description of some old furniture, and some bags with money in, in an Irish
town, the existence of which things was perfectly unknown to me; but they were
connected with the missing document, and Emma professed to derive her
knowledge of the existence of these things, from the spirit of the departed. She
asked me about the removal of this money, as if I knew of it. My correspondent
49
afterwards informed me of the correctness of Emma's statements; but refused to
continue the inquiry, from a superstitious dread of holding communication with
the dead. This case, as far as it went, was an excellent one, to prove the continued
existence of man after death. I was desired by a gentleman to investigate a
mysterious murder which occurred nearly twenty years ago. No particulars
whatever were communicated to me, beyond that some bones which were sent
me, were found in a very peculiar manner, and that there were reasons for
supposing them to be the bones of a person long missing. I am precluded from
going into the particulars of this case, further than that I found, from subsequent
letters, that the skull was fractured in the part she said it was; that the bones were
in the condition and found in such a place and manner as she described, and that
her description of the supposed murderer, corresponded exactly with an individual
suspected! I expended a good deal of time on this case, on account of its interest,
and as another test of clairvoyance, and for the satisfaction of the gentleman, who
had himself taken much trouble to procure the bones, and a portion of the clothing
of the missing man, as a medium of enquiry. Emma several times spoke of this
affair in the trance state, and, from the general correctness of her statements as far
as the circumstances are known, it would seem that the whole transaction was
gradually made known to her, and that she saw in the trances, a representation of
the occurrence . . . . Another curious feature in enquiries where departed persons
were involved, was observed. She would sometimes speak of these persons, and
say she could see them, but that she could not communicate with them, because
they had not gone away long enough, or had not passed into the proper state; and
she has fixed the time, when, she said, such communication could be had, in
conformity with what she represented as the law of the spirit-world. (pp. 201-202)
Notes:
1. This paper was written while I enjoyed a grant from the Society for Psychical
Research.
2. For a discussion of the Fox sisters as well as other early American mediums see
Capron (1855).
3. For a more recent discussion of magnetic phenomena attributed to discarnate agency
see Crabtree (1993, pp. 196-212).
4. Beloff (1997, pp. 25-28) discusses selected aspects of Emma’s clairvoyant phenomena.
References:
Beloff, J. (1997). Parapsychology: A Concise History. New York: St. Martin's Press.
Cahagnet, L.A. (1851). The Celestial Telegraph, or, Secrets of the Life to Come,
Revealed Through Magnetism (1st American ed.) New York: J.S. Redfield.
50
Capron, E.W. (1855). Modern Spiritualism: Its Facts and Fanatisms, its Consistencies
and Contradictions. Boston: Bela Marsh.
Crabtree, A. (1993). From Mesmer to Freud: Magnetic Sleep and the Roots of
Psychological Healing. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
Davis, A.J. (1867). A Stellar Key to the Summer Land. Boston: William White.
Edmonds, J.W., & Dexter, G.T. (1854). Spiritualism (Vol. 1, 9th ed.). New York:
Partridge & Brittan.
Haddock, J.W. (1851). Somnolism & Psycheism; or, the Science of the Soul and the
Phenomena of Nervation (2nd ed.). London: James S. Hodson.
Hare, R. (1855). Experimental Investigation of the Spirit Manifestations Demonstrating
the Existence of Spirits and their Communion with Mortals. New York: Partridge &
Brittan.
Ogden, D. (2001). Greek and Roman Necromancy. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University
Press.
Owen, A. (1990). The Darkened Room: Women, Power and Spiritualism in Late
Victorian England. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Paton, L.B. (1921). Spiritism and the Cult of the Dead in Antiquity. New York:
Macmillan.
Podmore, F. (1902). Modern Spiritualism: A History and a Criticism (2 vols.). London:
Methuen.
_____________
51
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: -
Dr. Carlos S. Alvarado in numerous articles published by Psypioneer has made
reference to Professor Ernesto Bozzano 1862 – 1943. The autobiographical sketch of the
Italian psychical researcher as published below is taken from JASPR5
Volume XVIII-
No.8 March, 1924 pages 153 – 155.
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
BY
ERNESTO BOZZANO
Translated by Beatrice Hyslop and Gertrude O. Tubby
Born in Genoa, in 1862, my life is absolutely without biographical incident, for it has
been the life of a hermit. I have never done anything but study. In my early adolescence,
all the branches of the knowable exercised an irresistible fascination upon my mind,
making it very difficult to make a definite resolution to choose the definite path of my
life. Finally I decided upon scientific philosophy, and Herbert Spencer was my idol. I
became a positive materialist of the most convinced and most uncompromising type. It
appeared to me impossible that a cultivated person, possessing common sense, could
believe in the existence and survival of the soul. I not only thought this, but I wrote
audacious articles sustaining my convictions.
In the year 1891, through pure coincidence, I had my initiation into metapsychical
research, Professor Ribot, director of the Philosophical Review, having sent me the first
number of "The Annals of Psychical Science," to read and send him my judgment upon. I
read: therein was talk of telepathy, of clairvoyance, and of telekinesis. I was scientifically
scandalized! I wrote in this tone to Professor Ribot. He answered, exhorting me to re-read
and reflect more quietly, for he saw that the existence of the facts could not be denied. In
deference to the Director of the Revue Philosophique, I re-read, thought it over, and
deckled to acquire works of this nature. Result: the complete defeat and
demolition of my- misoneism.
From that time on, I did nothing but study the new science, at its very sources.
Following this, gradually my disbelief decreased. I proceeded to collect facts in
great numbers, with a view to analyzing, classifying and comparing them, with the
firm resolve to solve the great enigma which lead been unexpectedly presented to
me in the important form of a scientifically resolvable question.
When my knowledge of the argument was already firmly established, I had the
good fortune, and by pure coincidence, too, to make the acquaintance of
distinguished persons seriously engaged in mediumistic research. Due to this fact,
I secured entrance to two experimental circles which lead at their service four of
5
JASPR: - Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research
52
the best private mediums, two women and two men. Through the help of such as
these. I obtained proofs of the identity of the dead, literally impressed. I will come
later to the long series of experiments with Eusapia Palladino, which I conducted
together with Professors Morselli and Porro. In these I had complete
materialization, speaking by identified phantasms, and once I had the phenomenon
in full light of a bow from Auer.
However, my theoretical convictions did not rest basically upon these objective
phenomena, but assuredly they did rest upon the force of the subjective ones. I
subdivided the cases belonging to this latter class, and gathered by me to the
number of a thousand, into forty distinct categories, to the end of classifying and
investigating these processes by comparative analysis.
Having,
completed the analysis, it resulted that all the categories I made were
susceptible of being placed in an order of ascending classification, ending with a
group of facts literally inexplicable by quasi-naturalistic theory and, conversely,
most explicable by spiritistic theory. To these incontestable results there came to
be added those deduced from objective phenomena or, more precisely, those
spiritistic phenomena which, in the last analysis, were demonstrated, of
themselves and in their turn, to be inexplicable by a quasi-naturalistic theory
which did not recognize the existence of a spirit independent of the body, existing
before the body, organizer of the body; and that for the reason that, without such a
fundamental hypothesis, one did not arrive at the explanation of the genesis of
subconscious powers, the which resulted independently of quasi-biological lazes; as,
moreover, one did not arrive it an explanation of the genesis of power (force) and
external biological energy, the which revealed themselves to be directed and governed
by a subconscious, transcendental will, capable of disintegrating the bodily
substance to reintegrate it into living organisms and ideoplastic automata.
Presenting these things in this light, it resulted that the conscious personality
should be considered a simple transitory manifestation, in a phenomenal
surrounding atmosphere, of a spiritual subconscious personality much greater.
This personality reveals itself as furnished with supernormal powers and a
transcendental will. This conclusion in effect resolved likewise the enigma of the
existence in the human subconscious of supernormal power (faculty) independent
of quasi-biological lazes. Taking note that these powers (faculties), in this
argument, were the spiritual attributes of an integral subconscious personality,
one understood that they could not result as a product of the "law of natural
selection," but that they must exist in a latent state in the subconscious, to
emerge and to exercise in the spiritual atmosphere even as the senses of the
earthly existence, latent in the spiritual state, emerge and exercise in the
terrestrial sphere.
Hence, the conclusion that the spiritistic phenomena are the necessary
complement of these spirits and I came, in the end, to conclude that, without
Animism, Spiritism would be basic.
53
This is established by the marvelous convergence of all the proofs -animistic
and spiritistic-towards the demonstration of the existence and survival of the
spirit (soul) which led me logically, and of necessity, to give full adherence to
the spiritistic hypothesis.
The results of my thirty years of research have already been partially
rendered public in a set of thirty long monographs; but the great demonstrational
efficacy of such a system of proofs will be evident only when it is condensed in a
general synthetic volume.
_____________
1930s SCOTTISH MEDIUM PHOTOGRAPHED
IN INFRA RED
A Scottish ectoplasmic medium was photographed by infra red in the late 1930s. This
was revealed by Shaw Desmond in an article for the Sunday Graphic March 6 1938.
“New Life After Death Revelations”.
“Originally applied to psychical research by that fearless and scrupulous investigator
Lord Charles Hope, the infra-red ray is now being used by my own International Institute
for Psychical Research, which has stabilised the technique.”
It is not clear however which body was involved in the incident below.
“One of the scientific bodies with which I am connected learned some months ago of a
remarkable Scottish medium who could produce at will yards upon yards of ectoplasm
and materialised spirit forms. Ectoplasm, I must explain, is a white, cloudy substance
which some mediums appear to be able to produce at will from their bodies. It exudes in
masses from nostril, ear or mouth, and vanished almost instantaneously into the
medium’s body.
On many occasions I have watched it being produced quite close to me. I know I have
even felt it, and in company with others, under strict test conditions, I have seen faces
form themselves in folds of the ectoplasm, and that in quite strong light.
Finally the existence of ectoplasm has been demonstrated by scientists, notably by
Professor Crawford, of Belfast University.
54
But to return to the Scottish medium.
The reports about him were so detailed and interesting that we decided to send an
experienced researcher to investigate.
Unfortunately for the reputation of the medium, however, our investigator took with him
an infra-red camera, and the photographs taken with it showed that the medium had
secreted some muslin-like stuff about his person, and pretended to produce it from his
mouth and body.
We sent him copies of the photographs and demanded an explanation. Curiously enough,
none was forthcoming.
That little story will demonstrate to the reader the importance of the infra-red camera in
psychic research. In my opinion, it is the most valuable protection against fraud which
has far been applied to investigation.”
Efforts to identify this medium are continuing.
_____________
Hippolyte Léon Denizard Rivail
Better known under the pseudonym of
Allan Kardec
1804-1869
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: -
November 2008 we published Alexander Aksakof’s research into the historical
origin of Kardec’s book, Le Livre des Esprits (The Spirits’ Book)6
.
This prompted a positive response from Dr. Moreira-Almeida, M.D., this was
published in the January issue.7
Aksakof’s research was first published in The Spiritualist, August 13, 1875, the
article published in full below promptly followed in The Spiritualist on August 27, by
Anna Blackwell who had translated Le Livre des Esprits into English - The Spirits’
Book.
6
See Volume 4.11 page 252: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.11November08..pdf
7
See Volume 5.1 page 29: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.1January09..pdf
55
THE ORIGIN OF ALLAN KARDEC’S
“SPIRITS’ BOOK”
SIR, Busy as I am, I must ask you to allow me to offer a few remarks in reference
to M. Aksakof's article in the number of The Spiritualist which has just reached me.
Whatever may be M. Aksakof's opinion to the contrary, most of your readers will
surely agree with me that “the essential point in the criticism of any book” is to
ascertain what the book contains, and to examine its views, arguments, and
conclusions. If M. Aksakof had done this in regard to the works of Allan Kardec, he
might have spared himself the trouble of writing his article; for he would have seen-
First, That Allan Kardec invariably defines his work as having been the giving of a
coherent and systematic form to views which have been held, more or less loosely and
vaguely, by eminent thinkers of all ages from the remotest antiquity to the present
day, but which have been set forth more fully, clearly, and consistently through the
instrumentality of modern mediums. Secondly, That, so far from “presenting
Reincarnation as a dogma,” he invariably treats it as a question to be decided entirely
by argument and by reason. Thirdly (and this brings me to the gist of the article
referred to), That he repeats, over and over again, that all his books were compiled by
him from the concurrent statements of mediums in every part of the world. Now it is
evident that, such being the case, it was impossible for Allan Kardec to cite the names
of all the mediums from whose communications those books were compiled; and he
accordingly decided (at the request, moreover, of very many among them) not to cite
the names of any of them. That M. Aksakof has been misinformed in regard to the
inception and first appearance of The Spirits' Book; will be seen by reference to the
preface, in which I have embodied the statements made to me on the subject by the
wife of Allan Kardec, and by his most intimate friends, as well as the results of my
own personal acquaintance with him. It is possible that some portions of the
additional matter introduced into the “revised edition” (which has remained as the
definitive form of The Spirits' Book) may have been furnished by the two mediums
whose statements M. Aksakof seems to have received as gospel; but they could have
had nothing like the share in the first production of the work which that gentleman
attributes to them. And the suggestion that “the Spiritists have buried those two
mediums alive,” like the fable which would place Allan Kardec on the staff of the
Univers, is too absurd for serious refutation.
M. Aksakof's assertion that “physical manifestations are always contrary to
reincarnation” is contradicted by facts. In my own case, particulars relating to my past
existences have been given me through several of our best physical mediums; in some
cases, not understood by them (as once, by Mr. Home, in trance), in others (as in that
of the younger Mrs. Marshall), to their great surprise; and an immense number of
other persons could testify to similar experiences. Besides, “John King,” as I have
pointed out in Spiritualism and Spiritism, has repeatedly asserted that he lived on this
earth in the reigns of Queen Elizabeth and of Charles II.; and his daughter “Katie”
56
made, you will remember, a similar admission, to Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein,
of having been connected with him in one of his former incarnations. The last number
of The Medium, also, contains an extremely,
interesting account of the assertion of his
reincarnations by the “materialised” spirit of “Thomas Ronalds;” and this in a group
of sitters who do not appear to have been favourably disposed towards the doctrine of
the plurality of our terrestrial existences, of which, however, abundant confirmation
of a similar character will doubtless be forthcoming as this branch of the art of
manifestation becomes generalised among the people of the spirit-world.
As to the complaint that the young French medium, Camille Brédif, now doing
good service in Russia, was not mentioned in the Revue Spirite, M. Aksakof seems to
be unaware of the fact that Camille’s present phase of medianimity, like that of poor
Firman, was only developed last year, and as a direct consequence of the visit of Mr.
Williams to Paris; previous to that visit the influence which renders “materialisation”
possible does not appear to have crossed the Channel, and Camille's mediumship
produced only raps, with the movement of objects at dark seances, which cannot be
said to have done much towards convincing incredulous inquirers.
Equally unfortunate is M. Aksakof's assertion that Allan Kardec “ignored” Mr. Home
and the manifestations obtained through him; had he read The Mediums' Book, he would
have seen that they are alluded to in that work.
M. Aksakof says that Pezzani and Cahagnet upheld the doctrine of reincarnation
before Allan Kardec; but why does he allude only to those two? In The Testimony of the
Ages I have given a list “as long as my arm” of modern writers who have, as
“precursors,” prepared the way for the fuller presentation of the law of our successive
existences which Allan Kardec was employed to elucidate by showing it, no longer as a
mere isolated philosophic idea, but as part and parcel of the general plan of
Providential development for all times, worlds, and reigns. The special work of Allan
Kardec, as he himself defines it, is that of a comparer, collater, compiler; but it
nevertheless presents, in its entirety, a philosophic whole, which is recognised as new,
original, unique by all who have taken the trouble to ascertain for themselves what it
really is.
M. Aksakof concludes his article by remarking, very truly, that “it is scarcely
necessary to point out that all he has stated does not affect the question of reincarnation
considered upon its own merits;” to which admission I add that the momentous issue,
raised by the books which I am wearing out my eyes in bringing within reach of the
English-speaking world, will eventually be decided, simply and solely, upon its own
merits, despite all the efforts of its adversaries to displace the question by ignoring the
tenor of those books themselves, and substituting for dispassionate examination of their
argument wholesale disparagement devoid of proof, and the repetition of unfounded or
distorted statements having nothing to do with the question at issue, originally set afloat
by envy and jealousy, and which were met by Allan Kardec, during his lifetime, with the
magnanimity of silent contempt.
57
ANNA BLACKWELL.
Wimille, Pas de Calais, July 15, 1875
1875 correspondence about Allan Kardec and Spiritism will continue in the March
issue.
_____________
WHAT WAS THE FIRST SPIRITUALIST
NEWSPAPER?
Last month I perused in South Kensington a set of what may be the oldest Spiritualist
journal. This is not a straightforward question. We might exclude Univercoelum,8
launched in 1847, on the grounds that it preceded Hydesville in 1848.
This brings us to “Spiritual Philosopher” launched in Boston in July 1850 which after one
volume became “The Spirit World”. Two volumes as TSW appeared, before the editor
decided he had subsidised it enough, and it closed.
The scope was wider than Spiritualism, for the editor Laroy Sunderland (sometimes
called Leroy) was a noted reformer, with his own take on mesmerism called Pathetism.
The July 1850 issue included many items relevant to the new movement. The editorial
invited spirit communications “Welcome, thrice welcome, happy, happy spirits! As you
attract us from discord, and error, and evil, and death, we call on you to come”.
There was an update on “The “Spiritual Knockings” which commented on Capron and
Barron “Singular Revelations” and described a séance at the home of Dr Griswold, an
Episcopal clergyman, on Broadway, as reported in the New York Tribune. Other sources
identify Griswold as a former Baptist minister. Under the heading “Conversation with
Spirits” Sunderland gave a summary of his own experiences, including his meeting with
the Fox sisters at Barnum’s Hotel.
Another note “The Magnet” looks back to his editorship of that mesmeric journal, started
in 1842.
8
http://www.answers.com/topic/univercoelum
58
Sunderland revealed that he already lecturing on the Spirit World in Philadelphia and
(three times a week) in Boston in his Hall. Raps were also taking place in Boston and its
environs.
We hope to reprint material from this journal.
L.P.
_____________
REMINISCENCES OF A REMARKABLE
MEDIUM
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: -
Psypioneer’s investigation over several issues into the life and experiences of the
Everitts,9
which no doubt has only touched the surface of their many years of service to
the early growth of British Spiritualism, has been added to further by the generous
donation of numerous issues of ‘Psychic Science’ by Roy Candy to the Psypioneer
library. Within the pages of the Quarterly Transactions of the ‘British College of
Psychic Science’, founded by James Hewat McKenzie10
in 1920, we find the following
article by H. A. Dallas,11
‘Reminiscences of a Remarkable Medium’.12
_____________
9
See Volume 3.1 page 3: - Mr. Mrs Thomas Everitt - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Also Volume 3.3 page 61: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.3March07..pdf
10
See Volume 3.8 page 169: - A Knight Errant of Psychic Science James Hewat McKenzie -
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.8August07..pdf
11
Miss. Helen Alexandria Dallas (1856-1944) was an early British investigator of psychical
research. As well as authoring numerous books on this subject she wrote many articles for
British journals such as Light and Psychic Science.
12
Taken from Psychic Science Vol VIII, No 1 April 1929, pages 37-40
59
By H. A. DALLAS
During the latter half of the last century Mrs, Everitt was well known to students of
Modern Spiritualism. But each generation has its own gifted mediums and those who
were remarkable fifty, or forty, years ago are unknown now to many interested inquirers
into the mysteries of Mediumship; more particularly if they have not been in the ranks
of professionals, or subjected to scientific investigation.
Mrs. Everitt is briefly referred to in Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's recent "History of
Spiritualism from 1870." He writes: "Mrs. Everitt's wonderful mediumship exercised,
like that of D. D. Home, without charge, convinced many influential people.”(Volume
1, p.174)
She was a friend of Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, who was for many years president of the
London Spiritualist Alliance. He introduced me to Mrs. Everitt and also related to me
several experiences he had had with her.
The phenomena attending her mediumship were raps, apports, trances, very clear
communications by the Direct Voice, and also direct writing. Her medium faculty came
unsought, and as a surprise, and was used for the service of others.
One of the incidents which Mr. Dawson Rogers related to me is as follows:-
In August 1871, before his acquaintance with Mr. and Mrs. Everitt had developed
into friendship, it suddenly occurred to him (I think he said soon after he awoke) to invite
Mrs. Everitt to pay a visit to his family; this he did promptly. The result may be
recorded in Mr. Everitt’s own works, for it has been printed in a small book, too little
known: "The Life and experiences of Edmund Dawson Rogers." Mr. Everitt13
wrote as
follows:-
During a conversation with John Watt, a frequent "Control" of Mrs. Everitt, he said:
"Mr. Everitt you must let your wife go into the country; she requires a thorough change,
and the society and magnetism of Mr. Rogers' family will do her good." This struck me
as very curious, for Mr. Rogers' family were comparatively strangers to us, and I
therefore mentioned some three or four other families where I knew she would receive
a hearty welcome-all of which John said would not do so well: "But, I said, I cannot
write to Mr. Rogers and ask him to let my wife come and stay with his family," but
John replied: "That has all been arranged with Mr. and Mrs. Rogers on our side. They
are quite willing and will be delighted to receive your wife as their guest." Now
imagine my astonishment when, on the delivery of the first post the next morning, a
letter came from Mr. Rogers with a pressing invitation for my wife to go and spend a
few weeks with them."
13
Thomas Everitt was president of the Marylebone Spiritualist Association (MSA) for 16 years. See: - The
Story of the MSA its Work & Workers 1872 – 1928 - Volume 2.12 -
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.12December06..pdf
60
Was it during sleep that this matter was "arranged"? It seems not improbable;
"John Watt," at least, taught Mrs. Everitt to believe that friends on this side and on
that side of the Veil hold communion during sleep; if this is so we have a clue to
the experience which many persons have had of awaking with a clearer mind on
problems that have been perplexing.
Mr. Morel14
Theobald gave the following account of his first experience of
"Direct Writing" in Mrs. Everitt's presence, in a book now out of print, called
"Spirit Workers in the Home Circle."
"I was silent; and thinking with some degree of perplexity of what had
occurred, and how real and near the spirit world is, when we heard rapid but slight
tapping on paper, similar to the click of an electric needle, or the dropping of
water. Mr. Everitt said: ` That's some direct Spirit writing'-and counted one, two,
three, when pencil and paper dropped on the centre of the table. When a light was
struck, we found the following message, written apparently within five seconds -a
physical impossibility for us -which we preserve as a precious gift from the Spirit
World:
"You seem to be puzzled at our close proximity, but as regards your Spirits you
are living in our world. You only require your material body to move with in this
your material world. Remove your atmosphere, you are then present with us; by
giving us the conditions we are joined with you-in fact we make a part of
yourselves.
"We influence you to do and say things that you believe are from your interior
selves. By-and-by we shall be able to make ourselves visible to you, so that we
form part of your family. You are now the medium of Earth and Heaven."
Mr. Theobald's comment on this writing is as follows:
"We have had many hundreds of direct Spirit Writings since then, and many
much more remarkable; but the sensation which accompanied this will never be
forgotten. As regards the paper itself, it had been previously marked and placed in
the centre of the table, round which we were all sitting, with a pencil on the top of
it. I saw it there when I turned off the gas. As soon as the paper was whipped up
(as it seemed) into the air first in front of me, my brain felt for the moment in a
most extraordinary state of ferment - quite indescribable -which state usually
accompanies the process of these direct writings, when I am present. This first
time I was dazed; it was a new sensation; but one I recognise, and which when it
occurs, induces us to search for some writing." (ibid, pp. 51, 52).
What was the connexion between Mr. Theobald's mental forces and the
production of the writing?
14
Normally spelt Morell, an excellent reference to the Theobald family is The Darkened Room by Alex
Owen, Virago Press Limited 1989 Ed.
61
This is a problem which cannot at present be solved; but as he was himself
gifted with the mediumistic faculties it seems as if he contributed to the result,
unintentionally, and in some way quite inexplicable at present. It would be worth
while to investigate this aspect of the matter by making careful observations when
the Direct Writing is produced as to the sensations not only of the medium but of
the sitters.
Having heard often of Mrs. Everitt's remarkable mediumship, I was glad to
have the opportunity of calling upon her in her home. She showed me some sheets
of direct writing which dealt with early Church History, and she told me that when
these were produced the "controls" themselves selected their circle of sitters, and
among them were included some who were students of Church History. Why this
was so she did not know, she suggested that perhaps this enabled the writers to get
into rapport with spirits who were acquainted with Church History; this was a
mere guess. It may be that the minds of the sitters were drawn upon, that also is a
guess; the problem remains unsolved. The lines of writing were quite straight,
about a quarter of an inch apart, and the margin on the left side of the paper was as
exact and even as if it had been done on a typewriter. Mr. Rogers said that in his
presence as many as nine hundred words were written in six seconds, and that on
one occasion the writing filled the whole of a quarto sheet which had been
previously initialled. I saw one sheet of this direct writing had been initialled by
Mr. Edward Bennett, who was at that time Secretary of the Society for Psychical
Research. These statements do not of course, carry evidential value for those who
believe such phenomena to be impossible, but those who, on other grounds are
convinced that these extraordinary phenomena occur, will be interested in the
testimony of honest and intelligent witnesses.
It must be borne in mind that Mrs. Everitt made only one condition when
giving her services, namely that they should be for the benefit of those who work
for the cause; she made no charge whatsoever.
At one time she used to go into trance, but she wished to be conscious of what
occurred, therefore in her later years she was not entranced; when she was
entranced she sometimes remembered the environment she had been in during her
unconsciousness of earthly surroundings; but she told me that this made her feel
she did not want to come back, and she began to grow discontented with life on
earth, after this the memory of the other condition was withdrawn from her.
On one occasion she described the house of a friend in a distant land which she
had never seen; this was sent to her friend who replied that it was so correct that it
might have been the description of an eye witness.
In reply to a question which I put to her, Mrs. Everitt said: "They tell us that
Truth is light." This should help us to understand what is meant when some
unhappy communicators tell us that they are "in the dark."
62
One of those who spoke by the direct voice in Mrs. Everitt's presence was a
child spirit, called "Zippy." He said that he was an Indian spirit; when he first tried
to speak through her, his English was very imperfect. Her usual "control," "John
Watt," seems to have interested himself in teaching this child spirit of a primitive
race.
Mrs. Everitt gave me an account of a curious occurrence which happened when
Professor Sidgwick paid her a visit.
Zippy was talking with the "direct voice." Mrs. Everitt was conscious and could hear
him. Those who have heard Prof. Sidgwick speak will remember that he often had a
painful stammer. On this occasion Professor Sidgwick spoke to "Zippy" and asked him
how he was able to make his voice heard, the Voice replied that he used Mrs. Everitt's
breath. "Can you use other peoples' breath”? asked the Professor, "Could you use mine?"
Zippy replied that he did not know; but presently he heard Zippy's voice talking and
stammering. Mrs. Everitt thought the child spirit had done it for fun and she exclaimed:
"Shame, Zippy!" "He called me to him," said the Voice. "I did not know what would
occur." Evidently the imitation of Professor Sidgwick's stammer was quite unintentional.
During my visit, whilst Mr. Everitt was telling me that some of the direct writings they
had received dealt with the attributes of God, His power and His love, I heard in a corner
of the room some yards away, some rather heavy thuds on the floor. "Are you there
friends?" said Mr. Everitt. The knocks continued but no message was given.
At a later date when I was having tea at Mr. Dawson Rogers' house, Mrs. Everitt being
also present, I heard raps on the table. I asked that the raps might be made on my side of
the table under my plate; this was done, at least the sound seemed to me to come from
that direction, the object of these signals seemed to me merely to indicate the presence of
unseen visitors.
The Everitts told me they had met many interesting people who visited them through
interest in her wonderful gifts, among others, John Ruskin, and the French painter, Tissot.
Her wonderful powers do not seem to have drained her vitality, for she lived to old
age. She was not what would be called a very educated woman and the philosophic
discourses of "John Watt " were, Mr. Rogers said, of a kind she would normally have
been incapable of producing.
One piece of writing, produced "direct" was in Latin; the first translation was given by
automatic writing and the Everitts were told that this was not very exact -another
translation was then given by the "direct voice," which Mr. Everitt told me he believed
was correct.
It is now nearly a quarter of a century since I paid this visit to the Everitts, but I made
a record of it afterwards and I have had this before me to refresh my memory whilst
writing these reminiscences.
_____________
63
A PIONEER AUSTRALIAN SPIRITUALIST
M r . W . H . T e r r y
[Introductory Note by Psypioneer: -
William Terry was born in London in 1836, and emigrated to Melbourne,
Australia in 1857. The biographical article below is taken from the Boston weekly
Journal, ‘Banner of Light’15
then, often referred to as simply ‘The Banner’. Psypioneer
purchased this copy specifically for the front page story of the life of Wm Terry, only to
find that it was a three part feature in issues dated 2nd
, 9th
, and 16th
Jan 1897 our issue16
is
the middle one.
Nineteenth Century Miracles17
on page 230 publishes an edited account of the life
of Terry by his biographer Hudson Tuttle, inevitably some of the Banner article is
covered by Tuttle, but the important part Mr. Stowe played is not mentioned in the
quotes.
15
Banner of Light. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nineteenth Century. In the March issue,
Psypioneer will publish the early story of the Banner of Light.
16
Vol. 80 number 19, in 1897 the cost of the paper was $2.00 per Annum postage free, edited by John W.
Day. The Banner of Light Publishing Company office was also a bookstore, located at 9, Bosworth Street,
corner of Province Street, Boston, Mass., where a complete assortment of books could be purchased by the
general public or wholesale.
17
Nineteenth Century Miracles by Emma Hardinge Britten, published by William Britten 1883.
64
Banner of Light Boston Saturday, January 9, 1897: -
.....Mr. Terry very soon developed as a writing medium, and many remarkable
statements and facts unknown to him until afterwards verified, were given. Like
all who first grasp the great fact of spiritual communication, Mr. Terry was
enthusiastic in his desire to make known to others the knowledge he had obtained,
and so, unfortunately, many and various were the people admitted to the sittings of
the circle. The consequence was that conditions became adverse to orderly control,
and a very undesirable spirit obtained the mastership of his hand. This spirit gave
all the details of his life and death, saving be had been hanged, giving his name,
date, and circumstances. How to get rid of this spirit was the trouble. He would
not go, and interrupted all efforts of other spirits to control. Mr. Terry had heard
that if a gross spirit were solemnly commanded in the name of God to depart, that
he would have to go, so one day he did thus solemnly command the departure of
his obsessor. Then he took his pencil in hand, confidently expecting a rational
communication from a higher intelligence, but hardly had his hand touched the
paper before it was powerfully seized, and in bold letters was written “Go to hell!”
This was so startling and so shockingly unsatisfactory that he resolved to cease sitting,
and, for twelve months, made little further effort at mediumistic development by
writing.
The above trouble was the last of Mr. Terry's disorderly controls, for, when next he
sought communication, he was enabled to develop a system of intelligent rapport with
a medical spirit interested still in healing the diseases of humanity, and this control has
been his sole and constant guide ever since. The success of his diagnosis and treatment
of diseases spread from relatives to friends, and then to friends' friends, until all his
leisure time and many business hours were thus occupied, and he felt he must stop or be
driven out of business. His spirit-guides advised giving up his business and devoting
himself entirely to medical-mediumship, promising him their support and God's
blessing. This was, however, too serious a step to be hastily taken.
However, in 1870, this step was taken. A shop in Russell street, Melbourne, had
been rented, stocked with second-hand books, and with all the many books and
pamphlets on Spiritualism, Mesmerism, and kindred subjects America had already
produced, under the charge of Mr. Terry, Sr., and over this shop Mr. Terry had a room
for himself for the reception of patients and inquirers. Thus was founded what has since
proved to be the central fountain for the dissemination of spiritual truth over the whole
of Australasia and New Zealand. Mr. Terry, Sr., like his son, had eagerly accepted the.
new truths first made known to them by Judge Edmonds's work, and delighted in
disseminating a knowledge of the facts and philosophy of Spiritualism. The
diagnosing business increased rapidly; letters and locks of hair flowed in from the
sick and ailing in all parts of the country. So accurate was the diagnosis. and so
successful the herbal remedies prescribed by the spirit-control, that the good news
spread with such amazing rapidity that. Mr. Terry found it impossible to deal with
it, therefore he passed over numbers of cases to his friend, Mr. G. A. Stows, a
young man who had been employed by him in his previous business, and who had,
65
through Mr. Terry been induced to investigate the Spiritual Phenomena, and who
was developing exceedingly reliable mediumship and clairvoyance. Mr. Stowe was
placed in charge of the drug department, the business of which increased so
rapidly and to such an extent that it is now the central d e p o t of Australia for
obtaining botanic medicines. Thus was the promise of the spirits fulfilled that
neither regret nor loss would follow Mr. Terry's dedication of himself to the cause
of Truth. The medical diagnoses attracted, much attention, for such a fact was new
to the community. Those who were benefited naturally desired to know something
of the power. Thus Spiritualism was brought under their notice. At the shop below
books could he bought or loaned, and the demand for the literature of the subject
became considerable. Inquirers of all degrees of education and standing visited the
depot and correspondence flowed in from all parts of the world. Not only was the
daytime of both Mr. Terry and Mr. Stowe thus fully occupied, but the evenings as
well, when in private homes they initiated beginners in the conduct of circles
giving them counsel and advice from their own experience.
It was about this date that the two propagandists called a meeting of inquirers,
which led to the formation of the Victorian Association of Progressive Spiritualist-
the first spiritual organization south of the equator. For a few years this society
was eminently successful, and several popular mediums were introduced to
Australian audiences under its auspices.
In 1872 Mr. Terry founded the Melbourne Progressive Lyceum on the lines laid
down by A. J. Davis. In this institution be held office for fourteen years, and is
now a Trustee. The Lyceum has been always popular, and, during the twenty-four
years of its existence, has done much good work. It is still well attended.
THE HARBINGER OF LIGHT
On the first day of September, 1870, Mr. Terry issued the initial copy of the
Harbinger of Light. Ever since, for twenty-six years has this high class paper,
devoted entirely to the diffusion of spiritual truth, regularly appeared on the first
day of the month, under his editorship. “It was started,” writes Mr. Terry, in a
leading article commemorating the twenty fifth year of its issue, “at the instigation
of the spiritworld, and we believe has been sustained largely from that source; for,
with the multifarious duties that have occupied our time, we have not been so posi-
tioned as to carry it forward on ordinary commercial principles. Editing, publishing,
and offering facilities for those who wanted it to get it, is all we have attempted to do.
Under these circumstances it is a wonder that it has stood so long; but encouragement
from the spirit-side, and frequent acknowledgments of benefit derived by readers on the
mundane plane, have helped to sustain our labors, and induced us to press on. It may be
interesting to some of our readers to know the circumstances under which the paper was
started.
They are as follows: Early in 1870 the writer was visiting a gentleman whose wife
had, whilst under magnetic treatment for disease, developed clairvoyant powers. At the
66
husband's suggestion she was magnetized, and, whilst in the clairvoyant state, described
a spirit-form of commanding presence, and surrounded by a halo of light, holding in his
hand a scroll. This he unrolled, and she read on it, “Harbinger of Light,' and,
underneath, the motto. `Dawn Approaches; Error is passing away; Man, arising, shall
hail the day!' Under this, again, she saw columns of print, and, turning to the
magnetizer, she said, ' It is a newspaper, and you are to write it.' He expressed his
incredulity, as he had no literary experience, nor adequate scholastic education.
'Nevertheless,' said the seeress, 'you have to write it! '
We thought the matter over, but could not bring ourselves to take any initiative
steps, and were quite relieved when a mouth or two later, Mr. B. S. Nayler18
started
The. Glow-Worm in the interest of Spiritualism; but when, after five months, that
journal was discontinued, and the message was reiterated, we began to think seriously
on the subject-tire result being the starting of The Harbinger in September, 1870. It was
up hill work in those days."
_____________
PLEASE
SUPPORT PSYPIONEER WITH BUYING YOUR
BOOKS THROUGH US!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
‘Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-
0-9553420-8-0.
See Psypioneer 3.11: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K.,
postage, elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’
By John Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
18
See Volume 1. 18 page 225: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/18.PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
67
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison @ £7.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-
9514534-6-9. See Psypioneer book review: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £14.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism - a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer
Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’
Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
‘Occultism and Spiritualism – a book review by, Stainton Moses originally published
under the pseudonym M.A. (Oxon). Published 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this
is a small booklet 10pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
All three Psychic Pioneer Publications £6.00 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
How to obtain this Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web
site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
68
69
