{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v5_n3_mar_2009.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V5 N3 Mar 2009","mylang":"de"}
Archived by
Garth Willey
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price
Volume 5, No 3: March 2009
EST 2004
Highlights of this issue:
Stansted donation – Charity Commission intervenes
New book articulates pioneer cases – Leslie Price
Rev. William Stainton Moses, M.A – Canon William V. Rauscher
The end of El Morya – Paul Johnson
ACD on the second highest spiritual being in history – Leslie Price
SNU tried to bar Christians in 1934 – Leslie Price & Paul J. Gaunt
Leonora E. Piper online – Carlos S. Alvarado
The editor of the “Revue Spirite” on Allan Kardec – P.G. Leymarie
Books for sale
How to obtain this Journal by email
69
70
71
79
84
85
87
93
102
103
=========================================
STANSTED DONATION – CHARITY
COMMISSION INTERVENES
The Charity Commission, which regulates charities in England, has written to the SPR
seeking information about the handling of the Stansted donation (see Psypioneer previous
issues). This follows an approach to the CC by Leslie Price.
69
Meanwhile the latest annual report to members of the SPR (2007-8) has noted only that
“Useful items were received from the collection of Michael Bentine and copies of
journals and magazines from the Arthur Findlay College.”
SPR members have not been told that many of these rare journals deemed surplus were
offered for sale cheaply to council members and that these volumes are now inaccessible.
For us at Psypioneer who encounter on a daily basis the problems of students in various
continents trying to get access to such old journals, this remains distressing.
_____________
NEW BOOK ARTICULATES PIONEER
CASES
An unusual Spiritualist book may do much to correct the general unawareness of pioneer
workers which is common in the movement.
Michael E. Tymn of Hawaii is already well known for his Metgat survival web site1
,
which offers outstanding historical cases, as well as reports of contemporary survival
research.
In his book “The Articulate Dead; they brought the spirit world alive” (Galde Press,
2008)2
, Tymn presents classic pioneer personalities from both sides of the Atlantic.
Central to his narrative are Mrs Piper, Mrs Leonard, Crookes, Myers, Barrett, Lodge and
Stainton Moses.
In addition, a variety of lesser lights are recalled, including Carl Wickland, Mrs Curran/
(Patience Worth), Hamlin Garland and Charles Mundell.
The result is one of the few volumes in print which offers a way into the lives of workers
who often feature in Psypioneer – and some who deserve to do so.
Tymn has now become one of the international contributors to the revitalised weekly
Psychic News,3
so his valuable historical researches will reach a still wider audience.
LP.
_____________
1
http://aolsearch.aol.co.uk/aol/search?query=+Metgat+survival&restrict=wholeweb&isinit=true&avtype=&i
nvocationType=hf_talktalk_cl_ws_registered
2
www.galdepress.com
3
Subscribe to Psychic News: - http://www.psychicnewsbookshop.co.uk/catalogue/12
70
Rev. William Stainton Moses, M.A
November 5, 1839 – September 5, 1892
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: -
In Psypioneer February 2007,4
Leslie Price reviewed ‘The Autobiography,
Reflections, and Essays of an Episcopal Priest’ by a leading Christian parapsychologist
in America, Canon William V. Rauscher. The book is published by Mystic Light Press,
2006.5
In Psypioneer October 2008, we published “The Grave of William Stainton
Moses.”6
This article was due entirely to Bill Rauscher’s information and photographs
that led me, eventually, to finding the grave of the Rev. William Stainton Moses, M.A.,
in Bedford’s old cemetery.
Chapter 40 of Canon Rauscher’s book is published in full below, with the
exception of the eight photographs that accompany this chapter, and Moses’ obituary
as published in the Bedfordshire Independent (September 17, 1882). 7
4
Vol 3.2 page 32: - “On the Spiritual Frontier in America”
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.2February07..pdf
5
Mystic Light Press: - http://www.mysticlightpress.com/index.php?page_id=142
6
Vol. 4.10 page 231: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.10October08..pdf
7
Vol. 1.2 Stainton Moses Funeral page 12: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
71
The above photograph is taken from the collection of William V. Rauscher;
the photograph published below (which does not appear in his book) is the Moses
family plot at Bedford cemetery taken July 10th
1974. To Raucher’s right is the
grave of Moses’ parents, and on his left lies Stainton Moses.
See also Canon Rauscher’s new book ‘Pleasant Nightmares Dr. Neff and His
Madhouse of Mystery’. 8
Thanks to Canon Rauscher for giving permission to Psypioneer to publish this
work.
PJG
Stainton Moses: A Haunted Priest
A special class of people that call themselves mediums today (while in
ancient times they were seers, priests and prophets) offer fascinating
opportunities for study. They have unstable personalities (like the
radioactive elements) but are no nearer the borderline of insanity than
genius is, though they are far more exposed to the dangers of moral
and mental breakdown.
Nandor Fodor, Psychoanalyst
- from his book, The Haunted Mind
There is a large library at the College of Psychic Studies in London. In addition to
thousands of volumes on a variety of psychic subjects, it contains a vast collection
of pictures, papers, paintings, and objects that help tell the story of psychics and the
development of psychic studies through the years. In the entrance hall was a
bookcase with a large glass door and a brass plaque, placed there because the
College of Psychic Science (original name) was once the London Spiritualist
Alliance and William Stainton Moses, who was its first president, established it in
1884. Moses served until his death in September 1892, and this bookcase belonged
to him along with many other items now treasured by the leaders of the college.
During my visit in 1966 1 saw another case on the second floor. On its shelves
were numerous small notebooks, each filled with writings that differ markedly in
appearance from page to page yet it all flowed from the hand of The Rev. William
Stainton Moses. According to Ruby Yeatman who was then the secretary of the
College there were also unwrapped parcels still to be examined which belonged to
Moses. Through the years a great many of his notes had been published in the
college's magazine entitled Light, and a full complement of the “received” scripts
8
Mystic Light Press: - http://www.mysticlightpress.com/
72
appear in book form in Spirit Teaching (London: London Spiritualist Alliance, Ltd.,
Memorial Edition, 1904), More Spirit Teachings (London: Spiritualist Press, 1952),
and Spirit Identity (London: Hurst & Blackette, Ltd., 1920), which contain Moses'
personal insights and experiences on the phenomenon itself.
Eric J Dingwall, the famous psychic researcher, was in the library on my rainy
day visit to London, stooped over some old issues of Light doing research. He was
intense, and in response to my question; about material on the personal life of
Stainton Moses, he said: “Yes, yes, yes, someone must write a book about him with
the full story, but I don't have time to do it!” Perhaps someone will, for there is a
scattered accumulation of bits and pieces with short writings on his life, but no
major work.
Mediumship is no respecter of persons, and often mediums do not possess
intellectual as well as psychic gifts. This was not the case with Moses, and may be a
reason why his approach to psychic work was unique. He was objective, and gave to
the phenomena a certain insight tempered not only by education but also by the fact
that he had been a successful parish priest with a biblical orientation and a concern
for people. Through his automatic writings he tried to disassociate his conscious
mind from the written material. In the midst of disassociation he would doubly
disassociate by reading or by expressing an interest apart from the movement of his
hand as he wrote. His combination of mediumistic gifts and intellectual gifts was a
rare blend.
Born November 5, 1839, he spent his formative years at Bedford, England,
where he attended college. Before Bedford he lived in Connington, his birthplace, in
Lincolnshire where his father, William, was the headmaster at the grammar school
there. His mother was the daughter of Thomas Stainton of Alford, Lincolnshire, thus
the Christian names, William Stainton.
Granted a scholarship at Exeter College, Oxford, Moses had to leave his studies
because of ill health. He spent six months in a monastery on Mount Athos in
Greece, and later returned to Oxford to earn his M.A. degree. When he was 24 years
old he was ordained by Bishop Wilberforce, and his first charge was at Kirk
Maughold near Ramsey in the Isle of Man where he served as curate. He ministered
at two parishes there in a curacy akin to a rectorship since the rector was old and
pastoral duties were left in young Stainton’s hands. Moses must have loved people
or had what can be called “pastoral compassion,” for during the time of this curacy
we read of a severe epidemic of smallpox that did not keep him from attending to
his flock. This is recorded in a biographical sketch of Moses in the memorial edition
of Spirit Teachings by Charlton Templeman Speer. Moses, later acting as tutor to
Speer, left an indelible impression, and it was through the Speer family that Moses’
history of sittings was recorded. Within the framework of this private group
Stainton Moses exercised his mediumship.
73
Now let us gain insight into his role as clergyman, for his life as a parish priest
was short but effective. Speer wrote in Spirit Teachings:
There was no resident doctor in the district, but having at different
times acquired some little knowledge of medicine, Stainton Moses was
enabled to minister to a certain extent to the bodily necessities of his
parishioners, as well as to their spiritual needs. Day and night he was in
attendance at the bedside of some poor victim who was stricken by the
fell disease; and in one or two cases when, after an unsuccessful
struggle with the enemy, he had soothed the sufferer's dying moments
by his ministrations, he was compelled to combine the offices of priest
and grave-digger, and conduct the interment with his own hands. Such
was the panic inspired by the fear of infection, that it was sometimes
found impossible to induce men to dig graves for the dead bodies of the
victims, or even to remove the coffins containing them.
From Maughold he became curate at St. Georges, Douglas, Isle of Man in the
spring of 1868, and became friends with Dr. and Mrs. Stanhope Speer. Dr. Speer
treated Moses for illness and their resulting friendship had a major impact on his
life. We read that as a preacher Moses was impressive, and at Douglas he was
beloved by his parishioners. His final curacy was in the diocese of Salisbury, his last
church appointment in December 1869. Once again illness forced him to resign his
parish work and consider being a tutor, and this twist of fate brought him again to
Dr. and Mrs. Speer in London where he privately taught their son. Moses never
seemed to have the health necessary for the strain of parish work, and the field of
education demanded less physical strength, but even though his health was poor he
still excelled scholastically. He was English Master in University College School
from 1871 until 1889, and had a great influence over his students.
In 1870 during a visit to Dr. Speer the subject of Spiritualism was approached.
He and Speer often discussed religion, and were discontent with existing church
teaching. Mrs. Speer gave Moses the book The Debatable Land by Dale Owen,
wondering what Stainton Moses would think of the content. Surprisingly the book
helped trigger his thirst for more information, although until that time he considered
Spiritualism an imposture. Before he read Owen's book he had read Lord Adare’s
book of records of seances with D. D. Home which he never finished because he
considered it the “dreariest twaddle.”
With the formal church now in the background, Dr. Speer’s son wrote of him:
“Had his health permitted him to follow his original career, he would have no doubt
attained a distinguished position, as he was a powerful and original preacher, a
successful organizer; and an earnest and efficient worker among the poor.”
When Stainton Moses left the first parish in Maughold he received a letter signed
by the Rector and Churchwardens and fifty-four persons who lived within the parish
which provides insight into his character and his priesthood. According to the letter:
74
“We, the undersigned parishioners of Maughold, are much concerned to
learn that it is your intention shortly to resign the position which you
have for some years past so usefully and honourably occupied amongst
us. We beg to assure you that your labours have been greatly appreciated
in the parish. The longer we have known you, the more we have seen in
your work, the greater has our regard for you increased. The
congregations at both the churches under your charge are very different
in numbers to what they were some time ago. The schools have been
better looked after; the aged and infirm have been visited and comforted;
and the poor have been cheered and helped by your kindness and
liberality.
“By your courteous demeanour, by your friendly intercourse, and by
your attention to the duties of the parish generally, you have greatly
endeared yourself to its all; and not least to our respected and venerable
Vicar, whose hands we are well satisfied you have done all you possibly
could to strengthen. We cannot but feel that your loss will be a very
serious one to the parish, and we should be glad if you could see your
way to remaining some time longer with us. By reconsidering your
determination and consenting to remain, you would place us under a
deep debt of gratitude and obligation.”
Moses and Speer attended a number of seances, and by 1872 Moses’ own abilities
became apparent to group meetings at the Speer home. Five months after his interest
in Spiritualism began Moses experienced levitation. In 1881 the physical
manifestations began to weaken, and from 1872 to 1873 automatic scripts were
produced, mainly in the form of questions, answers and dialogue. Moses was told he
had around him a “band” of entities, 49 in number. If he knew who they were he did
not disclose it, for the names were so biblically bold as to bring rebuke upon him. For
those who wish to go further in exploring the “Imperator Group,” read The Controls of
Stainton Moses by A. W. Trethewy (published by Hurst and Blackett, Ltd., London,
1920)
Moses was not without his doubts, nor did he rule out the fact that his own mind
could be creeping into the communications. The questions posed in his volumes
reveal a mind searching through the midst of the material he was receiving, looking
for the weak spot which would prove it all false. The physical phenomena were
incidental to the real problem of spiritual identity.
Moses wrote under the pseudonym “M. A. Oxon.” Frank Podmore, in Mediums of
the 19th Century (published: University Books, Hyde Park, New York - 1963), claims
that in his last years Moses suffered from “extreme depression and nervous
prostration, and severe neuralgic pains,” and apparently the immediate cause of his
death was Bright's disease. He also states that Moses became a victim to the “drink
habit.” (I find no other reference to drink as a problem for Moses in books or upon
request for information at The College of Psychic Studies.) In More Spirit
Teachings, the preface states: “About four years before his passing which took place
75
in September 1892, Stainton Moses was thrown from the top of an omnibus and
sustained severe injury. Then after his recovery,
he was attacked with influenza. He
rallied, but never threw off its clutches. Overwork sapped his strength, and
influenza seized him again.”
I do not think Stainton Moses ever lost interest in the church, but it must have
vexed him to be a priest and not have the attention of his fellow clergy. The
interrelation of his ordination, his leaving the active ministry, his work for
Spiritualism, and his own paranormal experiences and illnesses must have created a
strange sight for his eyes as he beheld the Church of England of his day. Once he
wrote of a clergyman who refused to observe a psychic demonstration:
He poses in a most extraordinary attitude for one who has entrusted to
him a cure of souls. He must know that all around him are men crying
out for evidence of a future life. He must have had addressed to him the
earnest request for some stable proof of continued existence. It is not
men’s fault that they cannot believe as he tells them they ought. They
want evidence such as commends itself to their minds. With Thomas
they would prove and test for themselves, and they have a sacred right
to do so. But the method of the Christ is not the method of Mr. G. He
condescends to say: ‘Reach hither thy hand.’ Mr. G. draws himself up
and pharisaically replies: ‘Get thee behind me, Satan.’ ”
From all reports Moses was a modest man who abhorred publicity. If ever he met
with notables there is little recollection of those meetings on paper, for he was
considerate of their reputations, but he was more well known than we might
suppose. We read in Spirit Teachings:
A certain proportion of his time was devoted to visiting many of the
most important people in the country-important both socially and
politically-and also those who were distinguished for their eminence in
the scientific, literary, and artistic world. During the lifetime of such
people their names cannot he divulged, but it is not too much to say
that Stainton Moses had interviews, more or less frequently, with most
of the illustrious personages of his day; and all who took any interest in
the phenomena of Spiritualism, whatever their position or attainments,
were alike anxious to hear his opinions and experiences of that subject,
on which none were so well qualified to speak as himself.
No one examined Moses’ notebooks while he lived, and these books still reside
in the College of Psychic Studies except for one which is thought to be missing or
possibly destroyed. All the back issues of Light are there, as well as items that may
not have yet been discovered. An anthology of Moses’ writings, along with his
articles in Light and a full treatment of his life story are yet to be offered to students.
According to Nandor Fodor, F. W. Myers did an analysis of Moses’ material
regarding mental and physical phenomena in the Society for Psychic Research,
Proc. Vol. IX and XI, as a result of receiving material which Moses willed to his
friends C. C. Massey and Alaric A. Watts, who gave it to Myers.
76
No medium has shown as great a variety of phenomena as Moses. All forms of
mental and physical phenomena were supposedly present, including levitation,
movement of objects, lights, sounds, apports, odours, breezes, music, materialized
forms, writings, and trance. Yet interestingly even in the last years of his life his
name appears in the list of members of the SPR as "The Rev. W Stainton Moses.”
It is recorded that Stainton Moses served seven or eight years in an active parish
ministry, and acknowledged himself as a committed Christian and clergyman until he
died. Even though we read that he gave up the dress of an Anglican priest, he retained
his identity by using the title “Reverend.” Perhaps this is indicative of those who
believe inwardly the ministry cannot be erased, and those who have been ordained by
a Bishop are indelibly marked.
Stainton Moses’ body rests in Bedford cemetery, and I visited his gravesite on July
10, 1974 under the guidance of an old custodian of records who finally found the
neglected and forgotten family plot inscribed under an imposing Celtic cross on a
large base is the following:
In Loving Memory of
The Rev. William Stainton Moses, M.A.,
only son of William and Mary Moses,
Born at Donnington, Lincolnshire, Nov. 5, 1839
Died at Bedford, Sept. 5, 1892
Known as “M. A. Oxon”
Founder and President
of The London Spiritualist Alliance
A joint founder of The Society for Psychical Research
Editor of “Light,” and for 18 years English Master
At University College School, London
“Out of darkness into his marvelous light”
“He being dead yet speaketh”
Along side are the graves of his parents, William Moses (born 1797, died 1879)
and Mary Moses (born 1802, died 1896). The inscription then proclaims: “I know that
my redeemer liveth.”
An interesting account of his
funeral is provided in Light
Magazine (October 1, 1892 and
reproduced in Psypioneer (Vol. 1,
No3, 2004) by founder and editor
Leslie Price. The funeral account
originally appeared in the
Bedfordshire Independent
(September 17, 1882)
77
His best known work was “Spirit Teachings,” but he also gave to the world “The
Higher Aspects of Spiritualism”; “Spirit Identity”; “Psychography, or Direct Spirit
Writing,” all of which, with the exception of the last, are practically out of print; and
several pamphlets on kindred subjects have also proceeded from his pen.
Unknown to many researchers William Stainton Moses was a Mason, and his
Masonic degrees are recorded in the United Grand Lodge of England. Leslie Price
supplied the following information obtained on July 10, 1992 from John Hamill, the
Grand Lodge librarian and curator:
William Stainton Moses was initiated in St. Thomas's Lodge No. 142 London, on
4 March 1876. As far as I can trace he did not take office in his lodge and resigned
from it in 1887.
In 1880 he became a joining member of Campbell Lodge No. 1415, Hampton
Court. Again I can find no trace of his having taken office in the lodge.
In 1877 he was appointed Provincial Grand Chaplain of the Provincial Grand
Lodge of Middlesex, holding the appointment for one year (usual Custom.)
In the Royal Arch he was exalted in Campbell Chapter No. 1415, Hampton
Court, in 1877 but took no office.
In the Ancient and Accepted rite he is listed as an unattached member of the 18th
degree (Rose Croix) in the 1877 Year Book. In 1879 he is listed as a member of
Palestine Rose Croix Chapter No. 29, London, of which Capt. F G. Irwin was the
senior member. He continues to be shown as a member of this Chapter to the end of
1882 and then appears, again, as an unattached member in the 1883-5 lists.
There were no obituaries for him in the Masonic press.
Of course during my visit to the gravesite there was no sign of ghosts, but there
was a sense of peace. Moses’ haunted mind was still, and I said a prayer and
repeated the words: “I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write. From
henceforth blessed are the dead who die in the Lord; even so saith the Spirit, for
they rest from their labours.”
_____________
78
The End of El Morya
A review of Prophet’s Daughter by Erin Prophet
Guilford, Ct.: Globe/Pequot, 2009
By Paul Johnson
Introductory Note by Psypioneer:
From the foundation of the Theosophical Society in 1875, the Spiritualist
movement lost a succession of workers to the new society, and to Madame Blavatsky’s
teachers, supposedly advanced men, such as Morya. These teachers however took on a
life of their own outside the T.S. and others reported contacts with them. Among those
influential in the States a generation ago was Elizabeth Clare Prophet. Paul Johnson is a
noted historian of early Theosophy;9
his current research interests, which include Emma
Hardinge Britten, can be followed through his blog.10
_________
Reviews on Amazon suggest that thousands of readers have needed this book to make
sense of their experiences in the New Age movement of the 1980s and 1990s. Until
reading it, I did not realize that I was among them, despite having very limited exposure
to the organization whose rise and fall it documents. This unvarnished history
nevertheless helps bring closure to some issues about New Agers that have arisen from
my experience of related movements. The Church Universal and Triumphant faded from
my memory as it had from the national memory, as other apocalyptic and/or suicidal cults
of the 1990s provided more fodder for the same media attention that had once made
Elizabeth Clare Prophet a familiar name. This book reminds us of all the reasons that
Mrs. Prophet’s church deserves serious consideration as part of the history of
esotericism.
Prophet’s Daughter is the result of almost two decades of reflection on the rise and fall of
Elizabeth Clare Prophet, and should be read by everyone with a scholarly or personal
interest in alleged messengers of the Great White Brotherhood. Erin Prophet opens with a
description of March 14, 1990, when members of her mother’s church hid in
underground bunkers at their Montana ranch, constructed at a cost of twenty million
dollars, to await a nuclear war after which they would emerge to rebuild the world. Their
frenzied preparations for catastrophe were directed by transmissions alleged to come
from “El Morya,” the same Master figure who had been known as Mahatma Morya to his
earlier disciple, Helena Petrovna Blavatsky. In the twentieth century, Morya had already
been appropriated by the movement led by Russian artist Nicholas Roerich and his
channeler wife Helena, but became better known in the 1980s and 90s, when he was
9
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K._Paul_Johnson
10
http://backintyme.com/kpjohnson
See also his new website called the Theosophical Network. This one will be used to discuss esoteric history
and related subjects: - http://theosnet.ning.com/profiles/blog/list?user=28p4gweq05nes
79
proclaimed as the source of apocalyptic warnings by his alleged mouthpiece Mrs.
Prophet. In mid-March 1990 when the CUT members went underground by Morya’s
instructions, I was en route from Delhi to Jammu pursuing research on a historical
prototype for the Mahatma, the Maharaja Ranbir Singh (1830-1885) who had been
involved in the Theosophical Society during its earliest years in India. The fact that
Morya was then receiving more public attention than at any time since the Hodgson
Report on the Theosophical Society a hundred years earlier barely registered on my
consciousness at the time. My interest in Blavatsky and her Masters was inspired by
appreciation of the quality of the books she produced under their alleged inspiration; Mrs.
Prophet’s books by contrast could never hold my attention for more than a paragraph.
But the entire output of the Church Universal and Triumphant and all the alleged post-
Blavatskian channelings of Morya are outweighed for serious readers by Erin Prophet’s
excellent, illuminating memoir. For the first time since Blavatsky introduced him to the
world, a mouthpiece for Morya has written an honest memoir that will serve as a
cautionary tale about the dangers of belief in the authority of invisible Masters.
After opening with the debacle in which her mother’s followers hid in bunkers to await
nuclear catastrophe, Erin Prophet takes us back to the story of her parents whose devotion
to the Masters had begun long before they met. Betty Clare Wulf had first encountered
them in the form of the Count Saint-Germain as envisioned by the I AM movement. At
eighteen she read discourses attributed to the mysterious 18th century alchemist,
channeled by Guy Ballard in the 1930s. Betty had already embraced Christian Science
but now “viewed the Ballards’ work as the next step in a self-motivated spiritual quest
that had begun much earlier.”(39) Her mother Fridy had studied Theosophy and
encouraged Betty Clare’s interests in reincarnation. Although Betty married a fellow
Christian Scientist, she was never satisfied with the orthodoxy of Mrs. Eddy and in 1961
attended a meeting of the Summit Lighthouse, an I AM offshoot created by Marcus
Prophet three years earlier. Prophet had studied Hinduism in Paramahansa Yogananda’s
Self-Realization Fellowship in the 1950s, and while affiliated with this group discovered
the channeled writings of the Ballards. Their I AM movement had been splintered and in
disarray for years when Prophet founded Summit Lighthouse. He delivered messages
from various Masters of Theosophical and I AM lore, as well as the Archangel Michael
who had been one of Edgar Cayce’s alleged sources. The first night that Betty Clare met
Prophet (now known as Mark), she asked to become his trainee as a messenger of the
Masters, and in response he asked her to become his life partner. Both were married at
the time, but within two years they had divorced their spouses and married each other,
and in 1964 had their first child, Sean. Erin was the first of three daughters born to the
couple before Mark’s death at 56 in 1973. What had been steady but gradual growth
under Mark became rapid expansion under Elizabeth (renamed when she became a
Messenger), who moved the church headquarters from Colorado to California in 1977.
Although her siblings occasionally occupied positions of authority in the church, only
Erin became a messenger of El Morya, at her mother’s request keeping this appointment
secret from her brother and sisters when she accepted it in 1985 as the church was
relocating to Montana. By 1990 when the bunker episode catapulted the church into
worldwide notoriety, Erin’s role as Morya’s mouthpiece had reached the point where her
80
mother relied on her to consult the Master for practical instructions on the building of the
underground shelter. Some of the doomsday timetables that motivated the frantic shelter
activity came through Erin’s channeling of the Master. Prophet’s Daughter describes the
transformation of Summit Lighthouse into the Church Universal and Triumphant, the
decision (directed by El Morya) to relocate its headquarters from California to Montana,
and the escalating challenges facing the community in its new location. Erin Prophet’s
narrative is engaging and honest, and she makes few excuses for herself and her role in
the Church. Elizabeth Clare Prophet had suffered petit mal seizures for years without
informing her family or church of her epilepsy, but when her illness progressed to grand
mal seizures in 1988 her ability to lead the church was seriously compromised.
Nevertheless, the health crisis was concealed from the members and the public and it was
not until she resigned her leadership after being diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease at
age 59 that her health problems became known outside the family. For the last ten years
the Church has been redefining itself, adopting participatory management styles and
abandoning the practice of Messengership. However, alternate mouthpieces for El
Morya have arisen to meet the needs of followers who cannot accept his silence.
As leader of the Church Universal and Triumphant, Elizabeth Clare Prophet modeled
herself consciously on Helena Blavatsky to the extent of claiming to be the mouthpiece of
the same Mahatma. But her church drew on many other sources of inspiration. The
mission to create a spiritual community in a remote Western locale was the largest such
operation since the Mormons relocated to Utah more than a century earlier. The rigid
moral code of the CUT was as stringent, and as homophobic, as that of the LDS. In her
declining years, Mrs. Prophet became convinced that evil entities were attacking her and
recruited her followers to hold vigils “protecting” her from her enemies; Mary Baker
Eddy had set the example for this paranoid element of the CUT belief system. Mrs
Prophet’s apocalyptic warnings were similar to those of the Adventists of the 19th
century, and the obsession with weapons that developed in her later career was echoed by
the modern Adventist group the Branch Davidians in the years following the shelter
debacle.
Erin Prophet’s book is a memoir rather than a history, and succeeds on its own terms by
making sense of a life that is very much worth documenting. The group dynamics of Mrs
Prophet’s followers are revealed in the narrative rather than explained conceptually, but
the author has evidently devoted long years of consideration to understanding why she
and thousands of others went along with the apocalyptic obsessions that emerged from El
Morya in the 1980s. She frequently refers to a sociological study of the group from the
early 1990s, and to issues of prophecy fulfillment raised by Leon Festinger’s When
Prophecy Fails, but never shows any interest in the evolution of Morya prior to his
adoption by her parents.
Throughout the 1980s I was involved in the Theosophical movement, and frequently
heard Mrs Prophet mentioned in disparaging tones. But there was never any public
statement to my knowledge regarding her claims to intimacy with Theosophical Masters.
In addition to Morya, the CUT also honored Kuthumi (K.H. to Theosophists) and
prominently displayed portraits of them that were painted during Blavatsky’s lifetime and
with her blessing. In the 1990s my organizational involvement was focused on the
81
Association for Research and Enlightenment, as my scholarly interest turned to Edgar
Cayce after my books on Blavatsky were published. Like the followers of Mrs Prophet,
Theosophists have shown a remarkable willingness to accept alleged communications
from Morya and K.H. uncritically, starting with Blavatsky and continuing through C.W.
Leadbeater and more recently Geoffrey Hodson. But after the 1929 debacle in which
Krishnamurti rejected the World Teacher role that had been created for him according to
the revelations of Leadbeater, Theosophists have shown no taste for prophecies and End
Times expectancy. As the 1990s drew to a close, I felt confident that the ARE would not
succumb to the kind of embarrassing behavior for which fringe religious groups had
become notorious throughout the decade. And yet, thanks to some vivid End Times
predictions in the Cayce readings related to the return of Christ, the organization went
through a millennial meltdown that was a milder version of what had happened to the
CUT. Within a six year period there were four changes of administration, and at the most
contentious period a division arose between Christian and Universalist factions in the
membership. By the dawn of the new millennium, ARE membership was in steep
decline, and a rival organization led by former executives was created to compete for the
loyalty of the members. Yet the ARE had always sustained several areas of focus which
were unaffected by prophecy failure, especially the holistic health readings, and has
rebounded from its difficulties rather rapidly in light of the circumstances.
The major problem that led the CUT astray, in Erin Prophet’s reckoning, is belief that
church leaders were able to see the past and future and provide guidance based on this
ability. As in the Theosophical Society under Besant and Leadbeater or the ARE during
Cayce’s lifetime, people were told of their past lives and advised on the basis of the
alleged former incarnations. This had lent itself to abuses, either conscious or
unconscious, as members’ desires for past lives as companions of Krishnamurti, Jesus, or
Cayce were regularly satisfied by clairvoyant revelations. In the case of CUT, past life
allegations by Mrs Prophet were blatantly used as mechanisms of social control,
including within the Messenger’s own family. From the point of view of a historian, one
of the unfortunate results of belief in past life readings is the way historical evidence and
reasoning are devalued and/or ignored in favor of pseudohistory from authoritative
“spiritual” sources. In the Theosophical movement after my books were published there
has been widespread hostility to any historical questioning about the Masters, whereas
with the Cayce movement such questions as I asked about sources inspired indifference
rather than anger. In either case, though, the questions “where did this material originate,
and how reliable is it?” are anathema to the mind of the true believer, and to
organizational mindsets despite their lip service to research and openness.
Elizabeth Clare Prophet abused her power to a far greater degree than was shown by
earlier mouthpieces of the Great White Brotherhood, in that she had extreme control over
her followers, down to details of their sex lives. Perhaps the cause of greatest bitterness
among her former followers is the extent to which financial ruin was often the result of
following the guidance of El Morya. Most CUT staff were left with neither jobs nor
resources after the organization threw most of its energies into shelter construction and
then collapsed. Erin Prophet’s older brother Sean, now an avowed atheist, takes a much
less indulgent approach to their mother’s abusive history, and sees no merit whatsoever in
82
her role as a Guru. Erin, by contrast, acknowledges all the harmful consequences of her
mother’s Messengership, yet clings to the belief that in some ways she was a valid
spiritual teacher and that the CUT’s teachings include many valuable elements.
All four Prophet children, however, are agreed in rejecting the Church and the
Messengership behind its rise and fall.
Mme. Blavatsky confessed to using false claims about Mahatmic inspiration to
manipulate her followers: “It is very rarely that Mahatma K.H. dictated verbatim…when
I thought my authority would go for naught, when I sincerely believed acting agreeably
to Master’s intentions and for the good of the cause…insisted that such and such a note
was from Master…often something reflected from my own mind.” Claims of Mahatmic
inspiration to bolster one’s spiritual authority became a mainstay of Theosophical
discourse under Besant and Leadbeater, even though Olcott and HPB herself had tried to
backtrack from such authoritarianism. Erin Prophet and her siblings grew up in a family
where channeled messages from the Great White Brotherhood were a regular occurrence,
and Erin seems never to have seriously questioned the sources until the collapse of their
mother’s church. It is easy to understand how unquestioning acceptance of claims to
sponsorship by Masters can occur for someone who has never known anything else. But
for tens of thousands of Mrs Prophet’s followers who made a conscious choice to accept
her teachings, the historical Jesus, Buddha, St. Germain, Morya, and Koot Hoomi seem
to have been relatively unimportant while Guru Ma’s transmissions from them were
absolutely authoritative. Her authoritarianism brought disrepute to the entire notion of
the Great White Brotherhood and its Masters, yet Mrs. Prophet’s church will never
repudiate her alleged sources even as it backs away from the worst abuses of their
Messenger.
Having witnessed the followers of Edgar Cayce descend into a period of instability and
conflict in the wake of prophecy failure, I have long pondered what makes people
embrace apocalyptic predictions. Perhaps the unknowability of the future is so painful to
the true believer’s mindset that they will embrace any implausible prediction rather than
admit that we just don’t know. But why do catastrophic, disastrous expectations play
such a major role in movements centered on prophecy? A Jungian explanation might call
upon archetypal patterns, but a more recent theoretical framework provides a concept that
I find more satisfactory. The study of memetics proposes that certain memes (units of
cultural transmission or imitation) are far more effective than others at replicating
themselves in receptive minds. The most powerful memes, according to Richard
Dawkins who coined the term, are those involving danger, food, and sex; humans are
hard wired by our evolutionary history to pay special attention to these. Hence messages
that tell people their survival is at stake, or that sexual freedom is dangerous to
individuals and the group, tend to get more attention than other messages because our
evolution makes us especially alert to such memes. Mrs Prophet “hit the trifecta” by
delivering messages about apocalyptic danger and sexual purity, and then adding the
urgent message that a food supply lasting many months had to be provided in the
underground shelters Morya had advised her to construct. Her Church combined the
most delusional and destructive aspects of Mormonism, Christian Science, Theosophy,
Adventism, and Spiritualism in a kind of syncretic occult authoritarianism. It is
83
inconceivable that she would have consciously chosen to construct a belief system out of
the worst elements of many others. But her seizure disorder may well have led her to
becoming the channel for such elements, as explained in the passage from Erin Prophet I
found most insightful, and with which I will close:
“And what about the prophecies? Epileptics often describe their seizures as being
preceded by a penumbra of approaching doom. Although Mother did not give dictations
while experiencing seizures, the imagery of some of her messages during the late 1980s
and early 1990s took on an aura similar to that of an imminent, world-shattering seizure.
It was almost as if she felt that the outer world could not continue turning while her inner
world was shaken to its core. With every blip of her EEG, God was making his will for
the macrocosm known.” (p. 174)
_____________
ACD ON THE SECOND HIGHEST SPIRITUAL
BEING IN HISTORY
As we approach the 150th
birthday of Arthur Conan Doyle on 22 May 2009, readers will
not be surprised if we note that he regarded the Christ as the highest spiritual being in
history. But who came next in his estimation?
The answer appears to be Joan of Arc, whose biography by the French Spiritist Leon
Denis he translated.
In his preface, ACD wrote:
His treatment of his heroine is so complete that there is no need for me to say anything
save to express my personal conviction that, next to the Christ, the highest spiritual being
of whom we have any exact record upon this earth is the girl Jeanne. One would kneel
rather than stand in her presence. We are particularly fortunate in the fact that we have
fuller and more certain details of her life and character than of any celebrity in mediaeval
or, perhaps, in modern history. The glorious life as so short and so public, that there was
no time or place for shadows or misunderstandings.
There is a Kessinger reprint11
. Also, the full text of this translation is available on line at:
Jeanne d’Arc.12
The chapter “What were her voices?” is of particular interest. The entities who claimed to
speak to her were of doubtful historicity. Denis suggests these were symbolic identities.
But if this principle were applied to guides in general, where would it lead us?
LP.
11
ISBN: 0766165744 / 0-7661-6574-4)
12
www.jeanne-darc.dk/
84
SNU TRIED TO BAR CHRISTIANS
IN 1934
It is well known that in 1928 the SNU rejected the proposal of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle to
add an eighth principle to the existing seven. There is often some vagueness about what
was proposed, so it is worth quoting again the terms of the motion at the 1927 SNU
conference.
“That a new principle be added to the Seven Principles of Spiritualism, declaring that
while admitting that every creed has its own message from on high, however distorted by
human frailty, we in the western world acknowledge the original teaching and example of
Jesus of Nazareth and look upon them as an ideal model for our own conduct.”
It is this which was rejected in 1928 by the SNU conference, and before that by a special
committee, whose report can be found in Psypioneer, November 2004.13
Less well known is that an attempt to actually keep out Christians was made in 1934. Let
us go back to the presidential address that year as reported in LIGHT July 13, 1934 page
418.
SPIRITUALISTS' NATIONAL UNION
MR. J. B. M'INDOE RE-ELECTED PRESIDENT
THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
In his presidential address, Mr. M'Indoe dealt with the Spiritualist movement and its
place in national life. There was the difficulty of the movement getting into a groove, and
many issues which deserved serious consideration were regarded all too lightly. They
were faced with the tremendous problem of unemployment which made it difficult, if not
impossible, for individuals to maintain a decent standard of living.
Those who were endeavouring to face the situation had announced that at the best we
must be prepared to face a more or less permanent condition of unemployment of some
magnitude. Spiritualists who realised that the most important thing in the world was
human life, must sooner or later come to grips with the social problems facing us, and
make their contribution to the arrangement of a society where every one of their brothers
would have the fullest opportunity of developing the best that was in them. That, he said,
was the great message of Spiritualism. Were their churches delivering it? Were they
taking a just part in association with the various ameliorative movements to re-condition
human life? It was a question on which he invited discussion.
13
Vol. 1. 7 page 58: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP7.pdf
85
Continuing, Mr. M'Indoe said: "We claim to be a religious organisation arousing the
attention of all types of minds, and there are many indications that we are gradually being
recognised as an organised religious body. I stress the necessity that we shall ever keep to
the front the ideals of what a religious organisation should be. I fear we may be tempted
to follow the path which has been that of so many religious organisations, and which re-
sulted some weeks ago in the decision that Unitarians should not be allowed to speak in
Anglican cathedrals. The situation had a lesson for Spiritualists, who were faced at that
Conference with suggestions which might lead to a restriction of the intellectual freedom
which up to now had characterised the movement.
LEGAL RECOGNITION
Concluding, Mr. M'Indoe alluded to the time – not far distant, he believed – when they
should be granted legal recognition. The recent broadcast of Mr. Oaten's address was a
pointer in this direction. He also emphasised, in contradistinction to the attitude of certain
Spiritualist writers, the value of scientific research in respect of mediumship. This was
work that ought to be encouraged, and he believed, with Mrs. St. Clair Stobart, that one
of the chief obstacles to the universal acceptance of demonstrated survival was that they
had not received endorsement of their position from official science. Resolutions were
unanimously carried expressing strong disapproval of the “Incitement to Disaffection”
and "Medical and Surgical Appliances” Bills, and the Conference reaffirmed its position
in regard to peace and its support of the League of Nations in the bid to reduce
armaments.
A resolution regarding the acceptance of churches inculcating certain doctrines will
not, we understand, become operative unless and until confirmed by a postal ballot vote
of the whole Union, which has been called for and will be taken shortly.
This confirmation was not forthcoming, for as LIGHT reported on November 1st
1934.
RESULT OF S.N.U. POLL
At the annual conference of the Spiritualists' National Union at Blackpool in July
this year, a resolution was passed by 73 votes to 54 inviting the National Council to
refuse affiliation to any Church "that asked its members to accept the doctrines
associated with original sin, virgin birth or vicarious atonement." The alternative was to
leave the National Council to exercise its discretion.
A final vote of Churches and subscribing members was demanded and this has
resulted in the vote being reversed by a majority of 61 votes.
Decision as to admission to the Union will therefore remain with the National
Council.
LP & PJG.
_______
86
Leonora E. Piper Online:
Some Web Resources
By
Carlos S. Alvarado
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: -
Dr. Carlos S. Alvarado14
is affiliated with the Division of Perceptual Studies,
Department of Psychiatry and Neurobehavioral Sciences, at the University of Virginia.
Writing about the history of psychical research French physiologist Charles Richet (1850-1935)
stated: “If there were no other medium in the world but Mrs. Piper that would be sufficient to
establish scientifically the facts of cryptesthesia” (Richet, 1923, p. 34), a phenomenon Richet
defined as “a perception of things by a mechanism unknown to us of which we are cognizant
only by its effects” (p. 64). Medium Leonora E. Piper’s (1857-1950) importance to psychical
research may be assessed by the fact that she is still cited today by those writing about evidential
phenomena supporting the concept of survival of bodily death (e.g., Braude, 2003; Fontana,
2005), as well as by those discussing the history of psychical research and psychology (e.g.,
Blum, 2006; Taylor, 1999). I present here a bibliography of online material about her
mediumship, much of which was difficult to obtain before the advent of the Web. In addition to
the citation, readers of Psypioneer will be able to click on the links I have provided to go directly
to the reference in question.
14
See: - An interview with Dr. Carlos S. Alvarado by Michael Tymn -
http://metgat.gaia.com/blog/2008/12/an_interview_with_dr_carlos_s_alvarado
87
Online Materials About Mrs. Piper
Michel Sage’s Mrs. Piper & the Society for Psychical Research (1904) is a good general
introduction to Mrs. Piper. The author wrote in the first chapter: “Mrs Piper’s mediumship is one
of the most perfect which has ever been discovered. In any case, it is the one which has been the
most perseveringly, lengthily and carefully studied by highly competent men. Members of the
Society for Psychical Research have studied the phenomena presented by Mrs Piper during
fifteen consecutive years. They have taken all the precautions necessitated by the strangeness of
the case, the circumstances, and the surrounding scepticism; they have faced and minutely
weighed all hypotheses. In future the most orthodox psychologists will be unable to ignore these
phenomena when constructing their systems; they will be compelled to examine them and find
an explanation for them, which their preconceived ideas will sometimes render it difficult to do”
(pp. 1-2).
In addition to some general articles (e.g., Blossom, 1901; Raynes, 1917), there are also
excellent introductions to Piper’s mediumship in chapters of the following books: The Cosmic
Relations and Immortality (Holt, 1919), Science and Future Life (Hyslop, 1905), The Survival of
Man (Lodge, 1909), Modern Spiritualism (Podmore, 1902), The Naturalisation of the
Supernatural (Podmore, 1908), and The Newer Spiritualism (Podmore, 1911). Another author
summarized many different viewpoints in an article about the medium (Erny, 1899).
I have also included several classic séance reports and discussions of mediumistic
mentation published in the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research. Two important
ones are Richard Hodgson’s (1855-1905) “A Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of
Trance” (1892) and “A Further Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance”
(1898).
William James’ (1842-1910) initial paper in the Proceedings of the American Society for
Psychical Research, in which the medium was called “Mrs. P.,” is also available (James, 1886),
as are his later papers (James, 1890, 1909). There are also seances reported by James H. Hyslop
(1854-1920; Hyslop, 1901, 1910), and others (Leaf, 1890; Lodge, 1890; Newbold, 1898; Tanner,
1910).
A remarkable work was Eleanor Sidgwick’s (1845-1936) “A Contribution to the Study of
the Psychology of Mrs. Piper’s Trance Phenomena” (1915), one of the most systematic analyses
about work conducted with a single medium ever published. Sidgwick considered such aspects
as the spirit controls and relationships to each other, the different stages of trance, and the effects
of sitters on the communications.
Several authors discuss concepts and interpretations. Many concluded that Piper showed
veridical phenomena (e.g., Lodge, 1890; Hyslop, 1901), as did James when he wrote that “taking
everything that I know of Mrs. P. into account, the result is to make me feel as absolutely certain
as I am of any personal fact in the world that she knows things in her trances which she cannot
possibly have heard in her waking state, and that the definitive philosophy of her trances is yet to
be found” (James, 1890, pp. 658-659). One writer commented that Piper produced some errors
88
and confusions in her statements, but that, nonetheless, her “lucidity is undeniable, I would also
say that sometimes she is stunning . . . .” (Mangin, 1902, p. 31).
In his second report Hodgson (1898) accepted spirit communication. Sidgwick (1915)
described Piper’s trance and manifestations this way: “I think it is probably a state of self-
induced hypnosis in which her hypnotic self personates different characters either consciously
and deliberately, or unconsciously and believing herself to be the person she represents, and
sometimes probably in a state of consciousness intermediate between the two. In the trance state
her normal powers transcend in some directions those of her ordinary waking self . . . . And
further what makes her case of great importance she can obtain, imperfectly and for the most part
fragmentarily, telepathic impressions” (p. 330). Others, such as Amy Tanner (b. 1870), believed
that the communicators were purely psychologically created secondary personalities and that the
rest was explained as being due “to a heightened suggestibility to involuntary betrayals of the
sitter, with a modicum of guessing, fishing, and inference” (Tanner, 1910, p. 310).
I have not mentioned all the items of the list of articles and books appearing below.
Furthermore, this is not an exhaustive bibliography. But I believe it represents the best of the
available sources in the Web today that are available free of charge.
Bibliography and References
Bayley, W.D. (1917). Correspondence: Mrs. Henry Sidgwick on the psychology of the Piper trance. Journal of the
American Society for Psychical Research, 11, 421-428.
http://books.google.com/books?id=RnsXAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA421&dq=sidgwick+a+contribution+psychology+pip
er&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA421,M1
Bell, C. (1902). Spiritism, hypnotism, telepathy and Mrs. Leonora E. Piper. Medico-Legal Studies, 7, 283-286.
http://books.google.com/books?id=HBoCAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA394&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA283-
IA1,M1
Bell, C. (1904). Spiritism, Hypnotism, and Telepathy, as Involved in the Case of Mrs. Leonora E. Piper and the
Society for Psychical Research (2nd ed.). New York: Medico-Legal Journal.
http://books.google.com/books?id=36F3-qBxQAcC&pg=PA83&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPP9,M1
Blossom, M.C. (1901). A most remarkable “medium”—Mrs. Piper, of Boston. Everybody’s Magazine, 4, 519-524.
http://books.google.com/books?id=XBYpAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA520&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA519,M1
Blum, D. (2006). Ghost Hunters: William James and the Search for Scientific Proof of Life after Death. New York:
Penguin Press.
Braude, S.E. (2003). Immortal Remains: The Evidence for Life After Death. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield.
Erny, A. (1899). Mme
Piper et ses expériences (opinions diverses). Annales des sciences psychiques, 9, 110-125.
http://books.google.com/books?id=TX8XAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0t7J7YdJ4E2Xl5PU9RE
&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA110,M1
Fontana, D. (2005). Is There an Afterlife? Hants, UK: O Books.
Heywood, R. Mediumship: Mrs. Piper. http://www.survivalafterdeath.org.uk/articles/heywood/piper.htm
89
Hodgson, R. (1892). A record of observations of certain phenomena of trance. Proceedings of the Society for
Psychical Research, 8, 1-167.
http://books.google.com/books?id=xhIrAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0-
EUrIPsLD2Bp6&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA1,M1
Hodgson, R. (1898). A further record of observations of certain phenomena of trance. Proceedings of the Society
for Psychical Research, 13, 284-582.
http://books.google.com/books?id=AxErAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0-
EUrIPsLD2Bp6&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA284,M1
Holt, H. (1919). The Cosmic Relations and Immortality (2 vols.). New York: Henry Holt. Vol. 1:
http://books.google.com/books?id=fysXAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0Wi4ayRClowhYAquoCP
WcU;
Vol. 2:
http://books.google.com/books?id=LN4RAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0Wi4ayRClowhYAquoC
PWcU#PPA507,M1
Hudson, T.J. (1902). Spiritism and Mrs. Leonora E. Piper. Medico-Legal Studies, 7, 287-303.
http://books.google.com/books?id=HBoCAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA394&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA287,M1
Hyslop, J.H. (1900). Life after death. Harper’s New Monthly Magazine, 101, 91-99.
http://books.google.com/books?id=q8waAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA91&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA91,M1
Hyslop, J.H. (1901). A further record of observations of certain phenomena of trance. Proceedings of the Society for
Psychical Research, 16, 1-649.
http://books.google.com/books?id=AKcAAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA183&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPR9,M1
Hyslop. J.H. (1905). Science and a Future Life. Boston: Herbert B. Turner.
http://books.google.com/books?id=cYfWAAAAIAAJ&pg=PA117&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPR3,M1
Hyslop, J.H. (1910). A record and discussion of mediumistic experiments. Proceedings of the American Society for
Psychical Research, 4, 1-812.
http://books.google.com/books?id=MOAPAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0omMPvcP2NoPiLHp
mVYs2b&lr=&as_brr=1#PPP11,M1
James, W. (1886). Report of the Committee on Mediumistic Phenomena. Proceedings of the American Society for
Psychical Research, 1, 102-106.
http://books.google.com/books?id=0N7VAAAAIAAJ&pg=PA548&dq=%22notes+on+automatic+writing%22&lr=
&as_brr=1#PPA102,M1
James, W. (1890). A record of observations of certain phenomena of trance: Part III. Proceedings of the Society for
Psychical Research, 6, 651-659.
http://books.google.com/books?id=1moAAAAAMAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0-
EUrIPsLD2Bp6&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA651,M1
James, W. (1909). Report on Mrs. Piper’s Hodgson control. Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical
Research, 3, 470-589.
http://books.google.com/books?id=cX3VAAAAIAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0omMPvcP2NoPiLHpmV
Ys2b&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA470,M1
Lang, A. (1900). Discusion of the trance phenomena of Mrs. Piper: III. Proceedings of the Society for Psychical
Research, 15, 39-52.
http://books.google.com/books?id=FRArAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA39&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA39,M1
90
Leaf, W. (1890). A record of observations of certain phenomena of trance (3). Part II. Proceedings of the Society
for Psychical Research, 6, 558-646.
http://books.google.com/books?id=1moAAAAAMAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0-
EUrIPsLD2Bp6&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA558,M1
Leonora Piper 1857-1950. http://www.survivalafterdeath.org.uk/mediums/piper.htm
Lodge, O. (1890). A record of observations of certain phenomena of trance (2). Part I. Proceedings of the Society
for Psychical Research, 6, 443-557.
http://books.google.com/books?id=LBIrAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0-
EUrIPsLD2Bp6&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA443,M1
Lodge, O. (1909). The Survival of Man. New York: Moffat, Yard.
http://books.google.com/books?id=0iI1AAAAMAAJ&pg=PA204&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA190,M1
Mangin, M. (1898). Compte rendu analytique des expériences de M. Hodgson avec Mme
Piper. Annales des sciences
psychiques, 8, 228-254, 268-294.
http://books.google.com/books?id=A38XAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0t7J7YdJ4E2Xl5PU9RE
&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA228,M1 and
http://books.google.com/books?id=A38XAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0t7J7YdJ4E2Xl5PU9RE
&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA268,M1
Mangin, M. (1902). Réponse à ce qui précède. Annales des sciences psychiques, 12, 27-35.
http://books.google.com/books?id=i4kXAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0t7J7YdJ4E2Xl5PU9RE&
lr=&as_brr=1#PPA27,M1
Myers, F. W. H. (1890). A record of observations of certain phenomena of trance (1). Introduction. Proceedings of
the Society for Psychical Research, 6, 436-442.
http://books.google.com/books?id=LBIrAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0-
EUrIPsLD2Bp6&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA436,M1
Newbold, W.R. (1898). A further record of observations of certain phenomena of trance. Proceedings of the Society
for Psychical Research, 14, 6-49.
http://books.google.com/books?id=NA0rAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0-
EUrIPsLD2Bp6&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA6,M1
Oesterreich, K. Mrs. Piper and Psychometry.
http://www.survivalafterdeath.org.uk/articles/oesterreich/piper.htm
Philpott, A.J. (1915). The Search for Dean Bridgman Conner. London: William Heinemann.
http://www.archive.org/details/questfordeanbrid00phil
Podmore, F. (1898). Discussion of the trance phenomena of Mrs. Piper. Proceedings of the Society for Psychical
Research, 14, 50-78.
http://books.google.com/books?id=NA0rAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=editions:0-
EUrIPsLD2Bp6&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA50,M1
Piper, L.E. (1902). Mrs. Piper’s plain statement. Medico-Legal Studies, 7, 423-434.
http://books.google.com/books?id=HBoCAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA394&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA423-
IA1,M1
Podmore, F. (1902). Modern Spiritualism (Vol. 2). London: Methuen.
http://books.google.com/books?id=YXaEPgHWZJwC&pg=PA337&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA329,M1
Podmore, F. (1908). The Naturalisation of the Supernatural. New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons.
http://books.google.com/books?id=Y6hZAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA320&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA299,M1
91
Podmore, F. (1911). The Newer Spiritualism. New York: Henry Holt.
http://books.google.com/books?id=AI8FAQAAIAAJ&pg=PA164&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA164,M1
Raynes, M.A. (1917). The last word on Mrs. Piper. Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, 11,
133-152.
http://books.google.com/books?id=RnsXAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA133&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA133,M1
Richet, C. (1923). Thirty Years of Psychical Research. New York: Macmillan.
Robbins, A.M. (1911). Both Sides of the Veil. Boston: Sherman, French.
http://books.google.com/books?id=CdcRAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA31&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPP7,M1
Robbins, A.M. (1922). Past and Present with Mrs. Piper. New York: Henry Holt.
http://books.google.com/books?id=pCUPAAAAIAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPP11,
M1
Sage, M. (1904). Mrs. Piper & the Society for Psychical Research. New York: Scott-Thaw.
http://books.google.com/books?id=cT85AAAAIAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1
Sidgwick, Mrs. H. (1900). Discussion of the trance phenomena of Mrs. Piper: II. Proceedings of the Society for
Psychical Research, 15, 16-38.
http://books.google.com/books?id=FRArAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA39&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPA16,M1
Sidgwick, Mrs. H. [E.M.]. (1915). A contribution to the study of the psychology of Mrs. Piper’s trance phenomena.
Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, 28, 1-657.
http://www.archive.org/details/proceedings28sociuoft
Tanner, A.E. (1910). Studies in Spiritism. New York: D. Appleton.
http://books.google.com/books?id=2qMFAQAAIAAJ&pg=PA128&dq=mrs.+piper&lr=&as_brr=1#PPR3,M1
Taylor, E. (1999). Shadow Culture: Psychology and Spirituality in America. Washington, DC: Counterpoint.
_____________
92
Hippolyte Léon Denizard Rivail
Better known under the pseudonym of
Allan Kardec
1804-1869
Introductory Note by Psypioneer:
Controversy arose from Aksakof’s paper published in The Spiritualist, August
1875: “Researches on the Historical Origin of the Reincarnation Speculations of French
Spiritualists” attacking Kardecism, see Psypioneer November 2008.15
P. G. Leymarie,16
editor of La Revue Spirite vehemently defends Kardec in a letter which was sent the
editor of The Spiritualist, published October 8th
1875, page 175: published in full
below.
Revue Spirite, was a monthly journal founded in 1858 by Rivail / Kardec, it
was the official organ of French Spiritism, upon Kardec’s death in 1869,
Leymarie became editor.
We will also note in this letter the name M Pierrard; after some research I have
been unable to locate this exact name and I am therefore assuming Leymarie is refering
to Z. J. Pierart17
the French Spiritualist - Researcher who founded and edited La Revue
Spiritualiste, based on the contents of the letter below. Kardec and Pierart were
representatives of the two opposing factions Spiritists and Spiritualists of which they
openly debated.
Also, Baron Dirckinck Holmfeld (Demark) is referred to: he was an early
supporter of Spiritualism in Germany. I noted this letter by Holmfeld in The British
Spiritual Telegraph, 1859: Evil Spirits.18
In the same journal he gives us a useful insight
to early European spiritual manifestations.19
At the start of the Kardec series, I stated: - Kardec’s book, Le Livre des Esprits
(The Spirits’ Book) was first published in 1856, which had marked the beginning of
15
Vol. 4.11: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.11November08..pdf see also December 08 & January 09
issues relating to Kardec.
16
Leymarie was imprisoned for a year, allegedly for producing fake spirit photographs. Although Emma
Hardinge Britten did not sympathise with Kardec’s teachings, she spoke most highly of Leymarie. See:
Nineteenth Century Miracles pages 88 -89. See also one of the photographs, with comments by Stainton
Moses: - http://www.photographymuseum.com/buguetl.html
17
http://www.answers.com/topic/z-j-pi-rart
18
http://books.google.com/books?ie=ISO-8859-1&output=html&id=hfQDAAAAQAAJ&jtp=29
19
http://books.google.com/books?id=tI8RAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA249&vq=Dirckinck+Holmfeld&ie=ISO-
8859-1&output=html
93
Kardec’s Spiritism. I have had some feedback on this date with the general consensus
being that the first edition was in fact 1857! Anna Blackwell who translated The Spirits
Book in 1875 states in her Translator’s Preface: - the “Revised Edition”… brought out
by him in 1857.20
…but gives no first edition date.
It is interesting to note that Leymarie states the first edition of the Spirits’ Book
is 1855! Who is correct?
THE EDITOR OF THE “REVUE SPIRITE”
ON ALLAN KARDEC
SIR,-Having recently glanced over a few of the leading Spiritualist periodicals of
your city, I was painfully surprised to find that at this crisis, when we all (whether
denominated Spiritists, or Spiritualists) should be united in order to withstand and
repel the attacks of our common enemy, the spirit of evil is rife; and this when you
are perfectly aware of the overpowering and baneful influence exercised in this
country by a certain body of the clergy, when you yourself, on treating the subject of
the trial, have spoken of M. Leymarie and Mr. Firman as being the victims of that body,
at this crisis, I repeat, you open the columns of your influential paper to all those who
seek to depreciate the memory of Allan Kardec by petty slanders and vile insinuations,
knowing, as you probably must, from what source they come.21
It is truly painful to me to
see such erroneous allegations disseminated by the public prints, and you will allow me,
sir, I trust, to defend the honoured memory of a most honourable and injured man.
A feeling of respect and veneration towards the departed, and especially towards those
whose lives have been consecrated to the accomplishment of all that is good and great,
has always been recognised as inherent in the English nation, and well may it be proud of
such a noble sentiment. In France it is customary to attack the reputation of every
celebrated man whose services have not been tendered to the Church as by law estab-
lished. Turn him into ridicule, render him contemptible, take away his good name,-
nothing is spared for that purpose, neither the use of vile language, nor the repeated and
simultaneous attacks of those two great organs of bigotry and Jesuitism, the Univers and
the Figaro.
Have MM. Dirckinck Holmfeld, and Aksakof been acquainted with Allan Kardec?
Not in the least. They have simply repeated calumnies to which they ought never to have
listened. It is a well-established fact that a man of talent, M. Pierrard, and others, whose
20
Vol. 5.1: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.1January09..pdf
21
We have never printed any slanders or insinuations in this journal. Baron Holmfeld, an
honourable gentleman, has published that Allen Kardec was once on the staff of the
Jesuitical paper, L' Univers, and that he was instigated by the Jesuits. This is a mere
statement of alleged facts, not made anonymously.-ED.
94
names it would be useless to mention, take upon themselves the trouble to circulate those
falsehoods, which naturally make an impression upon strangers in Paris, who care very
little about discovering the truth, and merely repeat what has been communicated to
them. We have not the honour of being personally acquainted with M. Pierrard, but
would not for worlds do him any wrong, even though, in order to militate against him, we
were but to utter the hundredth part of the calumnies broached by him against Allan
Kardec, both during his lifetime and since he has been consigned to the tomb-Allan
Kardec, who was incapable of resenting an injury, and whose only vengeance consisted
in saying all the good he could find to say of his most implacable of enemies!
To be adverse to certain studies or to certain doctrines, is perfectly comprehensible
and natural. Different men will necessarily seek after the solution of many different
problems, and each individual seeker after the truth (or what he considers such) will
inevitably magnify the importance of that subject which he is most frequently called upon
to investigate: harmony is the result of variety, both in the physical world and in the
spiritual. That M. Dirckinck Holmfeld’s system of philosophy should be
incomprehensible to those whose suffrages he seeks, that it should be incomprehensible
to us, what does that signify? Does that prove anything against a scientific and literary
reputation, highly prized in Denmark? because he cannot easily explain his theories in the
French language, ought we to condemn a priori? It would be absurd, and he certainly
possesses the right of combining his ideas and giving them publicity (should he find
readers); does he not also claim the right to pick up odd bits and scraps of scandal, and
have them inserted in the English papers?
That M. Pierrard should write volumes, and influence the minds of many by a
vigorous, concise, and logical argumentation, is his duty and his right. We can peruse his
works with infinite satisfaction to ourselves, but, certainly, without caring to know what
he was or what he did ten or twenty years ago. We have to deal with his mind alone, and
would never stoop to pry into the private life or actions of any man.
That M. Aksakof, an eminent member of society, it is said, and a pioneer of our cause,
should collect the materials necessary for the propagation of the truth; that he should do
away with old customs and time-worn scientific prejudices, bravo, M. Aksakof! say we.
We are amongst the first to applaud and to thank you; we honour you for what you have
done, for what you mean still to do, but cannot demean ourselves by inquiring into your
past life.
These gentlemen have leagued together for the purpose of attacking not only the
founder of Spiritism, but also the doctrine of reincarnation, and their antipathy to that,
subject has certainly led them too far. Allow me to give you a brief and curtailed outline
of the biography of Allan Kardec.
Allan Kardec (Léon Hyppolite Denizan Rivail), of an ancient family, distinguished at
the bench and at the bar, was one of the most eminent disciples of Pestalozzi, at Yverdun,
in Switzerland. Pestalozzi, the great thinker, the profound philosopher, the man of science
and progress, who exerted so wide an influence on the reform of education in France and
95
Germany; Allan Kardec became one of his most distinguished pupils, and subsequently
his coadjutor. Italian, English, and German he wrote and spoke perfectly; he was a, good
Latin scholar, and has translated several works into the German language, amongst others
those of Fénelon, Member of the Academy of Arras in 1831; he received the crown of
honour for his memoir-“What System of Studies is most appropriate to the Social and
Intellectual Development of our Epoch?”
In an educational establishment, founded by him in the Rue de Sevres, in Paris, he
taught, during five years (from 1835 to 1840), chemistry, physics, anatomy, and
astronomy. He also gave gratuitous lectures during the same period; he was the inventor
of an ingenious method of learning to count, and also of a mnemonic table to fix the dates
of historical facts and remarkable discoveries in the memory; he was likewise a member
of several learned societies.
M. Rivail was a man of well-established merit; he was very intimate with Alvarez
Levi, and elaborated conjointly with him those lectures which were attended by the
aristocratic and studious youth of Paris. To M. Rivail we are indebted for: 1st-“A Plan
proposed for the Amelioration of Public Instruction” (1828); 2nd-“Theoretical and
Practical Course of Arithmetic” (1839); 3rd-“Classical French Grammar” (1831); 4th-
“Manual of Examinations for Diplomas of Capacity, and Solutions of Questions and
Problems of Arithmetic and Geometry” (1846); 5th-“Grammatical Catechism of the
French Language” (1848); 6th-“Programming of the usual Courses of Chemistry,
Physics, Astronomy, Physiology (of which he was Professor at the Polymathic
Lyceum”); 7th-“Exercises for the Examinations at the Hotel de Ville and Sorbonne, with
Dictations upon Orthographic Difficulties” (1849). These various works, still highly
esteemed, were in great vogue at the time of their first publication. In 1868, M. Rivail had
new editions of them published, and his name was well and deservedly known, not
among sensational writers, or contributors to light literature, but to men of letters and
men of judgment, who like to see useful knowledge diffused in public and in private.
Madame Amelia Boudet, of a rich and respectable family, brought a dowry of 80,000
fr. to her husband, M. Rivail. At the death of the latter this sum of 80,000 fr. did not pay
the inheritance tax (droits de succession). It is exceedingly easy to verify the fact. After
their marriage, M. and Mme. Rivail lent large sums to friends, who, in consequence of
failures and other untoward circumstances, never repaid them. One, the manager of a
theatre (Les Folies Dramatiques), had 50,000 fr., the remnant of their fortune, and when
this sum was in peril, M. Rivail was obliged to superintend the pecuniary affairs of the
theatre, in order to save the last wreck of his fortune. From this very natural circumstance
his enemies would fain make us believe that he had been a vendor of theatre cheques.
The name of the manager we keep a secret, in accordance with the last wishes of Allan
Kardec, who forgave him on his dying bed. After the entire loss of their fortune, Madame
Rivail established a young ladies’ boarding school; her husband became bookkeeper to
several large establishments, and, amongst others, to the newspaper office of the
Univers. He thus maintained himself honourably with the produce of his hard earnings in
several different houses. What disgrace is it to work for one’s bread? And was he a
contributor to the Univers because he sat over the account-books two hours every day?
96
Can one single article be produced proving him to be the contrary of what he was, a lover
of freedom, progress, and justice; an enemy to bigotry and superstition in all its forms?
How was he interred? “But calumniate, calumniate,” says Basil, “something will always
come of it.” Madame Allan Kardec, now the possessor of a small property, on which she
lives, and which came to her as a family bequest, has but a slender income of less than
two hundred a year, notwithstanding the unwearied and lifelong labours of her late
husband. Since 1840 M. Rivail had always been a member of the jury, and was almost
constantly elected foreman. Now it is perfectly well known that in order to be a juryman
one must be in possession of one’s political and civil rights, never have undergone any
penalty, condemnation, &c. The English reader has too much good sense not to
understand that Baron Dirckinck Holmfeld imposed upon the credulity of the truly
estimable Mr. William Howitt, when he asked him to publish statements so erroneous in
the Spiritual Magazine.
Ah, M. Aksakof! you are much to blame. Like M. Dirckinck Holmfeld, you have
hearkened to slanderers, and yet ours is a common cause. You should have used your
influence to promulgate the doctrine of brotherly love, and instead of that you try to
disunite us. The principle of reincarnation is not to your taste; well, refute it calmly,
dispassionately, philosophically, without having recourse to such petty means as
backbiting and sarcasm. Men of great learning and talent believe in it, and will not
change their manner of thinking unless you give them plausible reasons for doing so.
Our opponents seem to have read Allan Kardec in a very superficial manner, and their
opinion as to the compilation of the Spirits' Book is altogether a mistaken one.
M. Rivail began to study animal magnetism in 1830, and continued his
investigations with that spirit of impartiality and soundness of judgment which his
contradictors seem entirely to want. In 1850 he had already analysed a quantity of
documents, and made many interesting observations on that subject; during twenty
years he studied the phenomena of magnetism in all its bearings during twenty years,
you understand!
Mademoiselle Japhet, Mesdames Roger, Bodin, many somnambulists and
mediums, such as Mlle. Huet, Mlle. Duffaulz, Mme. Robyno, and hundreds of others
were, and are still, very fit subjects of study to a clever mesmerist; each and every one
of them has his or her especial qualities and imperfections. Taken separately and
individually, the result of a mesmerist's researches would not, perhaps, amount to
much; taken collectively, and submitted to the interrogations of a clear-sighted,
judicious, and able questioner, who knew how to select the good grain from the bad,
who went to work as only an experienced practician can, the precious diamond truth
was extracted from the dark mine, and given to the light of day. In 1855 the Spirits’
Book was first published, many additions were subsequently made to it up to the year
1858, when it appeared in its complete form, such as we have it at present: 100,000
copies of it have been published and translated into all languages. Did Allan Kardec
ever assert that the Spirits’ Book or the Mediums Book were from his pen? Never.
They are the productions of supernatural beings who made use of the instruments
which they deemed most useful for that purpose, to convey to us their instructions.
97
They selected Allan Kardec, because he was a man of good sense and sound
judgment, to preside over the spiritual sittings, exactly as his colleagues chose him on
all particular occasions, or in all matters of weight, to be their chairman or their
umpire. Allan Kardec has not invented reincarnation, the principle has always
subsisted, has always had numerous and eminent adherents in ancient and modern
times; has he not repeated it over and over again? and how could M. Aksakof employ
an argument so futile and so false?
Why should M. Kardec take more particular notice of Mlle. Japhet than of the
other mediums and somnambulists whom he mesmerised, and who all claim their
share in the compilation of the Spirits’ Book? All of them are equally modest and un-
pretending. M. Leymarie, who ever since the year 1858 has been considered a good
writing medium, would find it absurd were he to lay claim to any portion of that
work, because, forsooth, the communications from the spirit would come through
him. No! such teachings belong of right to those from whom they have emanated, to
our elder brethren in the spirit-land, and we should all think ourselves only too happy
to have been chosen as instruments for the amelioration of our fellowmen.
Who ever thought of throwing Mlle. Japhet, or any other medium, into the shade?
They have all been useful in their way at a given moment, but what would be thought
of placing a dozen of their names at the top of each paragraph? Would it not be
simply absurd? We regret that M. Aksakof should make use of arguments so puerile;
if he would overturn the colossal monument cemented by the labours of a great and
noble spirit, let him write a work himself, one which will enlighten our darkness, and
“bring us out of the shadow of death into the gates of life,” if he can.
Those are likewise mistaken who accuse the Spiritists of being attached to certain
rites, dogmas, &c. No; they are men of free independent minds, seekers after the
truth, enemies of all deceitfulness and juggling, whose time is spent in studying the
phenomena of Spiritualism, and not in flying about the world, like M. Aksakof, to
collect a parcel of gossiping tales, and then recount them gravely Urbi et orbi. No;
they make use of no absurd practices; they have no articles of faith laid down for
them as a law; they respect the opinions of others, even when most opposed to theirs,
and they honour and esteem the missionaries of truth and science, such men as
Wallace, Varley, William Crookes, and Davis.
Allan Kardec has never essayed to depreciate the physical manifestations, nor the
researches in physical science; on the contrary, be has always recognised their utility.
Do not his works prove it? But he has been perfectly right in warning us against those
who would seek to deceive by means of those manifestations. Have we not
experienced latterly the necessity of such a warning? And do we live in a country
where even researches into the phenomena are tolerated? Have we not been
condemned for merely speaking of the physical effects produced by Firman,
Williams, and Buguet? Talk of America, talk of Russia, where a commission has just
been deputed to investigate the science of Spiritualism, and then turn your eyes to this
land of bigotry and intolerance, where a prison is ready for those who believe
98
steadfastly in the possibility of physical intercourse with another sphere of being. Ah,
my friends, the moment was well chosen to level your blows at us; you have acted
manfully in trying to crush those who were already bruised. Had you wished for more
ample information you might have consulted our young media of the present day;
intelligent, energetic, and liberal-minded; valiant labourers in the new vineyard; and,
in our eyes at least, infinitely superior to many whom you would glorify; for we do
not attach an undue importance to mediums like Mdlle. Japhet, Mdlle. Guldenstubbe,
Sardou, Vaillandier, &c. And why has your newspaper at Leipsic always refused to
insert the refutation of the articles published in it against reincarnation?
You speak of Camille Brédif, but you are not probably aware that it was precisely
M. Leymarie who, in conjunction with Dr. Houatz, brought him out as a medium, and
introduced him into Russian society at Paris. Does he remember a certain seance
which took place in the Rue d’Isly in the presence of M. Golovine, M. and Mdme.
Allan Kardec, and M. and Mdme. Leymarie? Will M. Aksakof kindly ask him if he
wishes me to publish an account of that meeting? M. Golovine took some notes at the
time, and they are still in his possession. Shall I mention why M. Kardec could not
possibly write an article concerning the said medium? why he could tell nothing of
what he had seen? Will he have the goodness to answer? It is sometimes well to
examine both sides of a question.
M. Rivail by no means despised his family name, which was a very respectable
one, but in France it is customary for public writers to sign an assumed name? It was
his spirit friends and guides who gave him the one which has now a world-wide
reputation. It was likewise his guides who directed him to publish the Spirits' Book,
and he did so notwithstanding the exiguity of his pecuniary resources. He continued
his labours until the clay of his death, which was caused by a disease of the heart (an
aneurism). They who have known him intimately can testify to his goodness,
gentleness, and purity of life. He lived very unostentatiously, and never refused to
those who asked his assistance: generous, simple-minded, and unaffected to the last.
And now, gentle English readers, you who have sent me for my defence before the
Tribunal at Paris, witnesses so friendly, and attestations so numerous, let us shun, I
pray you, all that has a tendency to disunite us. Let us walk hand in hand, joined by
the bonds of brotherly affection; let us not hearken to wolves in sheep's clothing. I am
a reincarnationist, and yet, I consider you all as my brethren. If, in England, your
spirit friends give you instructions different from those which we daily receive in
France, it is that in their world, as in ours, opinions vary. Let us respect those
opinions; let us weigh them in the balance, but without giving them more importance
than they deserve.
“There is no effect without a cause,” and myriads of disembodied souls may think
differently with regard to certain questions which to all Spiritualists are not of vital
importance, and yet act in harmony together, because the principal points of their
belief are identical.
99
Allan Kardec says, “Spiritism is entirely based on the existence within us of an
immaterial principle, on the existence of the soul. He who will not admit that there is
an intelligent principle within him, cannot necessarily admit that there is one existing
without; and consequently, not admitting the cause, he cannot admit the effect.” Like
you, dear friends, we believe in God, the Author of all things, all powerful,
sovereignly just, good, and of infinite perfection; we believe in His providence, in the
existence of the soul after its separation from the body; we likewise believe in its
individuality, not considering it as a probability, but as the necessary consequence of
the divine attributes. Admitting the existence of the soul, and its survival of the
earthly envelope, we think that it would be neither according to the justice, nor
according to the goodness of the Almighty that virtue and vice, good and evil, should
be treated in a similar manner after death, when we know that during life, the reward
and the punishment are seldom distributed with equity. Then, if the souls of the wicked and
those of the just are not treated alike, some must be happy, and others unhappy; that is to
say, they must be punished or recompensed according to their works.
What we desire (Spiritists and Spiritualists) is to challenge research, to excite curiosity
by means of adverse criticisms, and to awaken the attention of the indifferent; rejecting, as
unworthy of us, the use of coarse and abusive language-sole arguments of the shallow and
unrefined. We ask of our contradictors to prove to us, not by any subterfuge or shift, but by
a clear and palpable demonstration-whether mathematical, physical, chemical, mechanical,
or physiological-that an intelligent being, capable of the act of thought during his life,
becomes incapable of performing that same act after he has quitted his corporeal frame;
that the faculty of thought being allowed him, he cannot communicate with the beloved
ones he has left on earth; that, having the power of locomotion, he cannot transport himself
into our vicinity; that, being at our sides, he cannot commune with us; that, by means of his
fluidic envelope, he cannot act upon inert matter; that, endowed with power to act upon
inert matter, he cannot influence a hand to write; that, causing a hand to write, he cannot
answer our questions, or transmit to us his ideas.
Allan Kardec says (posthumous works, Revue Spirite, September, 1869, page 207 to
261). “The right of research and criticism is one which cannot be proscribed: Spiritism
cannot expect to ignore it, any more than it can hope to give universal satisfaction. Every
one is free to reject or to approve; but we should, at least, have cognisance of what it is that
we reject, and what it is that we approve. Now our opponents have but too frequently given
proof of their complete ignorance of the most elementary principles of our doctrine,
attributing to as sentiments and language in direct opposition to the truth.” That article
should be read by all Spiritualists, but we are obliged to be brief, and shall add only a few
lines from the same Revue (page 160): “ In the warfare that Spiritism has been forced to
sustain, it has always received the suffrages of impartial minds for its moderation; it has
never employed retaliation against its adversaries, nor ever returned wrong for wrong.
“Spiritualism is a philosophical doctrine, the tendencies of which are essentially
religious, as in every Spiritualistic system of philosophy; and hence it has necessarily many
points of contact with the fundamental bases of all religions-the Deity, the human soul, a
future life, &c. But nevertheless one cannot call it a religion, for there is no worship, no
100
rite, no temple, no dogma, nor are there among its adepts any who style themselves priests
or high priests, those high-sounding terms having existed only in the imagination of our
criticisers. He is a Spiritist who gives his adhesion to the principles of the doctrine, and
who conforms his conduct thereto. Every man has an undeniable right to entertain certain
opinions, or to uphold certain modes of belief, whether he choose to be a disciple of
Voltaire or Descartes, or whether his religious sympathies incline him to be a Jew, a
Catholic, a Protestant, a Fourierist, a Saint Simonienist, a Deist, or even a Materialist. The
Spiritists look upon liberty of conscience as a natural right, which they allow to others at
the same time that they claim it for themselves; they respect the opinions of others, slid
demand that theirs should be respected in return.
“The natural result of liberty of conscience will be the free right of research in matters of
faith. Spiritism opposes the principle of blind faith, because it imposes the necessity of
abdicating one's own judgment, and consequently cannot take deep root in the mind.
Hence, among the number of its maxims we find the following one:-‘No system of belief is
built on firm foundations which dares not support the investigations of reason throughout
all the revolutions of humanity.’
“In accordance with its principles, it imposes no restraint, uses no coercion, and desires
no other followers but those who come to it voluntarily and from a sentiment of pure
conviction; it gives the exposition of its tenets, and leaves those free to embrace them who
will.”
At page 307 in the Review of 1869 Allan Kardec says: “As to all feelings of envy and
jealousy on the part of others, we possess an infallible means for rendering them
innocuous. Let us endeavour to develope our intelligence, to improve our hearts and minds.
Let us vie with others in the practice of good works, in the exercise of charity and self-
sacrifice. Let the motto of ‘Brotherly love’ be inscribed on our banner, and let the search
after truth be the aim of our existence. Imbued with the like sentiments, we can defy the
raillery of our contradicters and the ill-will of our enemies. Should we go astray, let us
acknowledge our error, and turn from it: by observing strictly the laws of charity and self-
sacrifice, by avoiding every sentiment of envy and jealousy, we are sure of keeping in the
right path. These must be our principles; are they not the bonds of unity which should draw
together all ‘men of good will upon earth,’ whereas egotism and deceitfulness would irre-
vocably separate them.”
Spiritualists and Spiritists of all countries, let us reflect upon those memorable words.
P. G. LEYMARIE.
Rue de Lille, Paris.
Allan Kardec and Spiritism will continue in the April issue.
_____________
101
PLEASE
SUPPORT PSYPIONEER WITH BUYING YOUR
BOOKS THROUGH US!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
‘Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-
0-9553420-8-0.
See Psypioneer 3.11: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K.,
postage, elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’
By John Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison @ £7.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-
9514534-6-9. See Psypioneer book review: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £14.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism - a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer
Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’
Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
102
‘Occultism and Spiritualism – a book review by, Stainton Moses originally published
under the pseudonym M.A. (Oxon). Published 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this
is a small booklet 10pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
All three Psychic Pioneer Publications £6.00 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
How to obtain this Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web
site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
103
