{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v5_n8_aug_2009.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V5 N8 Aug 2009","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 5, No 8: August 2009
Highlights of this issue:
Dedications - to Don Galloway and Arthur Conan Doyle 241
The Psychic & General Bookshop – Prospectus 242
A Word of Warning (1928) - Arthur Conan Doyle 245
The Haunting of Conan Doyle - Leslie Price 252
The Resignation - Horrid Scenes at the SPR - International Psychic Gazette 258
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s Resignation - Journal of SPR 263
Conan Doyle’s Australian Helper- Leslie Curnow 270
Books for sale 280
How to obtain this Journal by email 281
=========================================
240
THIS ISSUE OF PSYPIONEER
is dedicated to
DON GALLOWAY
23 October 1929 - 1 September 2009
Don Galloway served as assistant secretary and later secretary of the College of Psychic Studies,
(formerly the London Spiritualist Alliance). He took a sympathetic interest in the Psypioneer
project from its inception and frequently passed on material from his private library of
considerable historical interest. Like many of our readers he had a great respect for the old
workers.
and to
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
22nd
May 1859 – 7th
July 1930
This is our second special issue devoted to ACD material in celebration of 150 years since his
birth (the first special issue being May 2009).
Initial Public Offering (IPO – in today’s terminology!)
For ACD’s Psychic Bookshop
241
PP Introductory Note: - In our separately published Psypioneer Archive1
concerned with
ACD’s Psychic Bookshop and Library, we have already presented much information on the
evolution of this venture. Below we reprint the Prospectus for the proposed floating of the
bookshop - with which in the end Sir Arthur did not proceed. It is not clear if that was because of
his ill-health or general economic conditions.
THE
PSYCHIC & GENERAL BOOKSHOP
CO., LTD.
(including the PSYCHIC PRESS)
__________
ESTABLISHED in 1925 by SIR A. CONAN DOYLE.
__________
INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS, 1908-1929.
Capital £7,500
Divided into 7,500 ORDINARY SHARES of £1 each.
DIRECTORS:
S. O. COX, Esq., Salmons Cross, Wall Hill, East Grinstead. (Chairman)
VICE ADMIRAL ARMSTRONG, 23 Gordon Square, W.C.1
Miss MARY CONAN DOYLE, 13 Queens Gardens, Lancaster Gate, W.2.
DENIS CONAN DOYLE, Esq., Windlesham, Crowborough.
1
PsyPioneer Archive: - www.woodlandway.org
242
BANKERS:
BARCLAYS BANK LTD.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. WESTON SLANEY & Co., 35 North End Road, W.14.
AUDITOR:
H. C. PLEWS, Estate Office, The Drive, S.W.6.
SECRETARY & REGISTERED OFFICE:
N. RIDD, Estate Office, The Drive, S.W.6.
PROSPECTUS.
The Company has been formed for the purposes specified in its Memorandum of
Association and in particular to purchase the Assets, including the benefit of the Lease, Stock,
Goodwill and Fixtures of the Psychic and General Bookshop, Victoria Street, S.W.I which was
opened in 1925 by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle who has up to the present time been carrying on the
business, but now finds that owing to failing health and many pre-occupations he can no longer
carry on by himself. It is felt that this offers a good opportunity of taking the business over
from him as it stands and placing same on a company footing with a Board of Directors who
would be prepared to carry on.
Although the business has only been established five years, it shows all the prospects of
being a successful one, especially since the selling and distribution of general literature has
been added to its original activities. The gross earnings which were little over £1,000 in 1925
have risen to approximately £4,000 in 1928 and 1929. The present year shows an increase up
to date. A gross turnover of £6,000 would bring the concern to the dividend-paying stage.
Sir Arthur has expended £4,500 from his own purse in establishing and working up the
business. He is prepared to take half this sum in shares, the rest in cash. There would remain,
after the expense of the Company formation had been met, approximately £2,250 which the
Directors consider sufficient as Working Capital and enable the business to extend itself by
fuller advertising. The Company would start with the advantage of several hundreds of
customers whose names are upon the books and with a staff who are thoroughly accustomed to
managing the business. The Stock of about £1,000, the expensive fixtures, the existing
business and goodwill would all be handed over to the Company, and all liabilities paid off.
Apart from the business possibilities which are here set forth, there are very many psychic
students whether they be psychical researchers, theosophists, or spiritualists who desire to have
an open display of occult literature in some centre point in London, instead of being, if it exists
at all, on the back shelves of a bookseller’s shop. These, no doubt, from a propaganda point of
view would extend a welcome and help to the enterprise.
The Bookshop during the time of its existence has been a most busy psychic centre and has
published many notable works, including such books as Von Reuter’s “Psychic experiences of
a Musician” and Purchas’ “Spiritual Adventures of a Business Man,” besides smaller books
243
such as “Pheneas Speaks,” Campbell Holmes’ “Fundamental Facts of Psychic Science,” Cox’s
“Talks with the Immortals” and “Experiences in the Unseen World” etc. In the press they have
a considerable book, Von Reuter’s “Consoling Angel” and Mrs. Hinchcliffe’s “Return of
Captain Hinchcliffe.”
It is understood that the pictures in the shop and objects in the Museum are the private
property of Sir Arthur and are not included in this sale.
Miss Mary Conan Doyle who has been honorary superintendent of the Bookshop, is
prepared, for a time at least, to place her services gratis at the disposal of the new Company, in
such capacity as the Directors may desire.
To W. T. LIVINGSTON,
GROTRIAN HALL,
115, WIGMORE STREET, W.I.
Dear Sir,
THE PSYCHIC & GENERAL BOOKSHOP Co., Ltd.
I shall have pleasure in subscribing £
for Shares in the above Company.
Yours faithfully,
______________
244
A WORD OF WARNING
By
A R T H U R C O N A N D O Y L E ,
M . D . , LL.D.
SIXPENCE
No Copyright.
THE PSYCHIC PRESS,
2, VICTORIA STREET, S.W.
A WORD OF WARNING
By
ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE, M.D., LL.D.
I WRITE this little pamphlet, which I have entitled “A Word of Warning,” under a strong
sense of responsibility. There are certain things which it is my duty to say, and this seems to be
the time to do it. They are not easy things, nor things which make for popularity, but for many
years I have had to plead an unpopular cause for the sake of truth, and one gets used to
opposition and misrepresentation. As one grows near the limit of the psalmist, the outer world
gives us little fresh to hope for and little fresh to fear. One’s only possible motive or desire is
to state the truth as clearly as one can see it, and to justify any gifts which God may have given
one.
For five or six years I have received in my own family circle certain messages which
profess to be, and have every internal sign of being, from a high spiritual source.Some of them
I have actually published under the title “Pheneas Speaks.” The part published is not more than
one-third of the whole, and the residue contains much which, if it be true, is of extreme impor-
tance for the human race. I was instructed that the time has not yet come for such publication,
and indeed it was clear upon the face of it that a detailed and verbatim account would tend to
cause panic, and lend itself to different forms of vulgarisation and sensationalism. I, therefore,
refrained, but I went the length of indicating the general tenor of these warnings.
This was that the world had failed to learn the lesson of the great war, that only by such tragic
visitations could it be chastened and humbled into a more spiritual state of mind, and that
accordingly, unless there was some sweeping change of heart, a second trial was coming which
would surely accomplish what the first had failed to do. The date of this crisis would be soon, it
245
would take the form of political and natural convulsions, and its effect would be absolutely
shattering. Such, in a nutshell, is the message as we have received it. It is not a pleasant one
either to hear, or to deliver, at a time when we are still reeling from the last blow, but if the
message is a true one then the situation should be faced.
But is it a true one? There lies the whole crux. There are several considerations which bear
directly upon the question. First of all, these messages have come absolutely unsought, are
entirely outside the medium's range of thought or interests, and in many ways run counter to our
own opinions. Secondly, since they began to reach us the whole trend of events, both in
international affairs and in seismic activity has moved in the direction indicated, and shown itself
in each case most active in the very quarters of which we were warned. Finally, during this time
we have received a series of corroborations which now exceed a hundred in number, coming
from every part of the world, and all dealing with one or other of the events which are already
foretold in our record. If, to use a homely comparison, I may compare that record to a completed
jig-saw picture, then we have had each separate piece handed in independently, so that all united,
when fitted into their places, would form a duplicate. These records, some of them short, but
many of them long and detailed, I have, of course, carefully preserved. They constitute a
formidable dossier. If any critic says, “These alarms are continually occurring. They are
delusions of the sub-conscious mind,” I am entitled to point to this mass of evidence, and to say,
“But why should all these subconscious minds be moving in the same direction?”
A further consideration which influences me is that many of the lesser prophecies of
Pheneas have been already fulfilled. Again and again he has given us notice of earthquakes and
other events before they occurred. Anyone who cared to examine my manuscripts could satisfy
himself upon that point. If, then, Pheneas is often right about the smaller matters, is it logical to
suppose that he is mistaken in his main contention?
Weighing every alternative explanation, there is only one to which I could attach any
weight. It is that people who have responded to the reactions of the war may unconsciously fall
back upon the terrors and wonders of Revelations, and the Apocalypse which build up visions
of the same order. It is a conceivable explanation, and yet it will not cover the facts. It will not
explain the exact detail obtained in so many of these sinister messages, nor will it account for
the fact that the signs of the times are already ominously pointing in the direction indicated.
I have used the adjective “sinister,” and so they would seem on their face value and
immediate application. But I would stress the fact that if and when they materialise into
realities, they are but a violent remedial prelude to a very great moral and spiritual advance of
the race. Therefore, even at the worst, it should be hope and expectation rather than despair
which should fill our hearts, if we place the welfare of the whole future race against that of one
generation of human beings.
But now we come to the centre of the whole problem. What are the changes which should
have been brought about by the war, which have not been brought about, and which must be
brought about, if we are to escape the wrath to come? They are, as I understand them, of two
different orders, religious and economic. I will take the former first.
246
Mankind must learn once for all that Religion has nothing whatever to do with theological
beliefs, or forms, or ceremonies, or priest hoods, or vestments, or sacraments, or any of the
other trappings and adornments which have so covered it that we can no longer see it. It
depends upon two things only, and those are Conduct and Character. If you are unselfish and
kind, then you are of the elect, call yourself what you will. If you are dry and hard and bitter
and narrow, no church and no faith can save you from the judgment to come.
But what is the harm of the form or the sacrament? May it not help you to be unselfish and
kind? It is true that it may not prevent you from being so if such is your natural bent. Every
creed and system of thought has its saints – which does not mean that it produces its saints.
The mere fact that they appear in all, shows that they are independent of all. Even Atheism has
had its saints. But the general objection to all forms is that they inevitably tend to take the
place of facts, and to give a man the impression that not by his own effort, but by some trick or
charm of someone else, the sacrifice of a Christ, or the blessing of a priest, he will reap his
reward. It is a fatal delusion, as each will find for himself when it is too late. It is easy to go
through life in the majestic procession of a church, with that sense of security which the sheep
may feel in the heart of a flock. But we do not die in a procession. We die alone. And then
comes the hour when the soul realises its position, and understands that nothing in the world is
of any help to it save only the character which it has itself built up. If it is sweet and loving, all
is well.If it is hard and worldly, then it has now to face the consequence.
These irrational observances do harm because their obvious impossibility and falsehood
alienate the earnest man, and prejudice him against all that is true and good in religion. In his
repulsion from the self-styled ministers of the Christ he loses sight of the Christ Himself. He
fails to understand that that august figure, the most notable in the annals of the world, is in no
way responsible for all the complexities and distortions which have been inflicted upon His
own prefectly simple maxims by an order of men who often represent not Him, but those
Pharisees with whom he contended in His lifetime. Christ's mission was to fight the pedantic
religion of His day. The same mission assails Him now should He come back to us. It is true
that there are ministers of every denomination who are the salt of the earth. So it may have
been also among the Pharisees. It is not they, but the system into which they are forced which
needs an utter reform, which can hardly stop short of total abolition.
Vague statements are of no avail.One must get down to details, even if some tender souls
are hurt in the process. There is no need to be hurt. They should learn that the best service that
can be done to the real Christ is to make Him reasonable, and that every effort, however
humble, in that direction, is done for His sake and His true religion.
Let us admit in the outset that every one of the fantastic beliefs which have been foisted
upon mankind has originally had some true and legitimate meaning, which has been
exaggerated and deformed, until it has become a monstrosity. Let us consider first the case of
that august lady who was the mother of the greatest of mankind. Surely she deserves honour.
We know, it is true, hardly anything about her, but “like mother, like son,” and she was
carefully chosen. If we wish to have an ideal of womanhood why not Mary the wife of Joseph,
the hard-working partner of a carpenter, the mother of a large family and the sufferer in that
tragedy which has stirred the world?All this is reasonable. But why in the name of sanity
247
should we call her “The Virgin.” Are not the names of her children known? In an absurd desire
to exalt her and make her other than human, one-half of the people have been driven into
superstition, and the other half into contemptuous and almost hostile neglect. In claiming too
much her supporters have lost that universal assent which would be right and reasonable.
Now take that sacrament, the nature of which is disguised under such grand names as
“Eucharist” and “transubstantiation,” because it is so obviously repellant that any plainer word
would condemn it. In its origin it was reasonable and charming. It meant that those who were
of the same communion should meet from time to time in good fellowship, and that when they
did so they should bear in mind Him who was the very centre of that Communion, the gentle
teacher and living example of all that was good. What could be more reasonable than that?
And what has human absurdity and perverseness made of it? No less than that we eat and drink
(and presumably digest) the actual flesh and blood of God. Some, possibly half the Christian
body, go to that preposterous length. The other half halt at some point just short of this
blasphemous absurdity. All this in the teeth of all common sense and on the faith of a single
text out of a volume which is never critically examined that it is not shown to be full of
mistranslations and interpolations. It is folly of this sort, folly to which I know no parallel in
any barbarous religion, which calls for a judgment upon us. That we should claim that the
words of a man could turn a wafer of flour into the flesh of God will fill our posterity with
mingled horror and amused contempt.
Or take the so-called sacrament of Confession. What could be more sensible or laudable
than to take some elder of one's own sex into one's confidence and obtain his advice. The
young man with an inclination to drink or debauchery is guided and gently reproved by his
elder. But that out of this perfectly natural transaction there should be so perverse and
dangerous a practice that a young woman should tell her secret thoughts to a celibate of the
opposite sex is surely stark lunacy. It is difficult to say whether it is the man or the woman
whose delicacy suffers most. If she must needs confess, then in the name of chastity and
common sense let it be to some discreet matron.
And what of baptism? It is intelligible enough that some ceremony should be performed in
order to remind the adult that he really does belong to a certain Community, with the beliefs
and duties attached. There is no special need for such a thing, but it is intelligible. Look,
however, at the monstrous perversion which has supervened. It has been taught that of two
unconscious babes, one of which has received a splash of water with a formula while the other
has not, one will surely, if both die at the time, be blessed and the other be cursed for ever.
Should the babe die unsplashed, then the mother who dies in bearing it shall lie in consecrated
ground, but the babe shall be buried outside and alone. Again, I ask, has any heathen tribe
anything more fantastic than this in its ritual, and can we ever expect the affairs of this world
to be normal while we profess to hold views in religion which no sane mind could justify? If
such things have come from the priesthood, then it is time that all priesthood should be swept
away, and that the Community should take their religious affairs into their own hands.
However badly they conducted them it could not be worse than the organised materialism and
systematised insanity which are the framework of present-day religious belief.
248
What too of the Trinity, with its involved and mystical three in one? How simple it is in its
reality, and how monstrous the growth which Byzantine speculations have nourished. We have
our God, the unthinkable, marvellous, ever-present force which makes all and pervades all.
Call it “The Father,” since we must needs reduce it to our human level of thought and
expression. So far we are on sure ground. Then we have the Son, or rather, the Sons, since to
certain human beings, whereof Jesus of Nazareth was an outstanding example, there is given
special attributes of character and knowledge, by which they may serve as guides and teachers
to the race. These rare souls are God-created, so we may use the word Son. So far again we are
within the bounds of intelligible reason. But why make any third persona person who can only
be defined as being an inspiration, an emanation, an influx, or other names which are quite
contrary to our idea of personality. There are, we will say, vibrations between Father and son.
These same vibrations pass on to us.But how does this make a third person, or why should we
bemuse our plain Western European minds by such obvious fallacies of ancient Oriental
speculation? Let us be honest with ourselves, and cut away all this dead matter until we
expose that which is living.
And the fall? And the Atonement? Is it not certain that there never was a fall, and that if
there had been a fall there would be no justice or sense in such a vicarious sacrifice? How long
are we to continue to propagate such ideas, which offend honest minds and make them turn
away from that which is indeed reasonable and essential. Is it not enough that God has sent a
great teacher into the world who can set us an example in the modesty of his own life, and in
the bravery with which, to his own danger and destruction, he protested against the formal,
bigoted creeds of his day, even as lesser men are protesting now. Make Him reasonable, make
Him understandable; do not make His life alien and inapplicable by depicting Him as of
different flesh and blood to ourselves. If He were indeed so, then where is the merit of His
career?
These are a few of those dogmas and formal teachings which have to be utterly swept away,
if the Race is indeed to make an advance towards truth. The whole Old Testament must also
go, save as a venerable and sometimes edifying piece of literature. It touches heights of poetry,
and preserves records of early history, but bears no relationship to religion, and carries no
message from God to modern man. It has long poisoned the New Testament, as a corpse would
poison a living body to which it was chained.
Concerning the New Testament also – must we not use our God-given reason in its inter-
pretation? The time which elapsed between the death of Jesus and the assembly of the gospels
was roughly the same as that between the death of Shakespeare and the present day. There
were very many floating narratives and Jerome, the compiler, said that each was a different
version. From among them all he built up the present gospels. Is it not perfectly clear that
nothing at all was known of the birth and infancy of this humble teacher. It was not a public
incident like His teaching and His death. Therefore in the foolish idea of glorifying one, who
was so manifestly great that He needed no spurious adornment, the whole story of His
beginnings is taken from Oriental legends told many hundreds of years before. If this did not
sufficiently vitiate the text it is said that in the third and fourth centuries special inquisitors
were appointed called “Correctores” and that their duty was to bring the text of the gospels into
harmony with the actual practice of the church. It would be interesting to know how many of
249
our present sacraments and how much theological confusion we owe to the ingenious
interpolations of these gentlemen. They would certainly sustain ritual since ritual entails a
priesthood, to which they belonged. As to the exact value of ritual it is well to remember that
the most ritualistic of all churches is the Russian, and that their national history has been a
nightmare of murder and crime.
All vain forms must be discarded. But there is something to be added – something of
infinite importance. We have to recognise that God, the Central source of all inspiration, has
not ceased two thousand years ago to send his messages and his consolation to the world.
Through the movement which is called Spiritualism, we have learned that it is possible to get
into touch with sources of knowledge which are far higher than ourselves, and thus to obtain a
clear explanation of the reasons of our existence, and of the fate which awaits us after death.
This is the most weighty message which has been sent out for two thousand years, and it has
been received in the main with ignorant derision and contempt. This also has to be answered
for in the time to come. But it is towards this source of knowledge that we have to turn in the
future. The Ethics of the Christ, with the guidance and teaching of the other world, will
constitute the whole religion of the future, fluid in form and dogma, but solid in the essentials,
and consistent always with our reason. All else must change. These wrangles which we now
see in the Churches, are like men who dispute whether they shall sit on this branch or on that
branch, when the whole trunk is rotting beneath them. If they could change themselves, then
all might be well. If they will not change themselves, then surely something will come to
change them. What that something may be lies in the future, but there are signs that this Future
is not far away. If those signs are true, then the message is that England, though heavily
stricken, will escape more lightly than those countries where form and dogma have an even
stronger grip than with us.
Let me, in a word, restate the position as I see it. Our religion has been like clay and gold,
the clay of man-made dogma and observance, the gold of the inner Spiritual meaning. The clay
has long covered the gold, so that many of the most earnest of mankind have turned away
heavy hearted, and never seen that the gold was there. Our task is to remove that clinging clay,
and to expose and use the gold so that no man ever more can doubt its existence.
I write in a conservative and not in a destructive spirit. I have my eyes fixed not upon the
minority of this nation who belong to Christian churches, but to the majority who have been
driven out of all communions by the fantastic out-of-date doctrines which are advanced, and
who in their repulsion have now lost the essentials of religion. If those dogmas could be made
moderate and intelligible as I have tried to make them here, then all those multitudes may once
again be brought back to that God-consciousness and sense of the beauty of Jesus which is at
present lost. The Churches, immersed in their own petty squabbles and formulas, have no time
or energy for the consideration of the state of things outside their own borders. If what I have
said hurts any tender soul I do hereby express my regret. I have written not in levity or in
thoughtlessness but under the strongest conviction that I am helping, in however humble a
fashion, to break the ground for the harvest of the future.
One word in conclusion as to the economic side, which is also involved. This brings us into
an atmosphere of politics, and yet there are some large considerations which are guiding posts
250
upon which any present political party may march. This is no place for details, nor have I
perhaps the practical knowledge which would furnish them, but it is clear that wealth must be
regarded less a personal possession and more as a trust to be used for the common good. No
one who surveys society can doubt that some are too rich and some too poor, and that a method
should be found by which the former shall help the latter. It offends our sense of justice that
some should squander wealth in luxury abroad, and that so many who work hard and live
plainly should be so hard pressed at home. Man needs little to have all the materials for
happiness. An assurance of nutritious food, nature, love, music, literature, games, cleanly
orderly houses – if a man has these things, which should come within the compass of all, then
he should, with an occasional change, have all that life can give in the way of contentment.
When every man and woman have such a prospect then the social position is sound. Such a
solution is not to be gained by bloodshed, or by the violent destruction of existing Government,
but it is to be gradually worked for as the methods to attain it unfold themselves. The present
inequalities and consequent miseries of life are among the causes which make for disaster.
In conclusion I should say that the views experienced are my own and are quite independent
of the Spiritualistic Organisation.
______________
THE
PSYCHIC BOOKSHOP
LIBRARY AND MUSEUM,
2, VICTORIA STREET, S.W.1.
Proprietor – Sir ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE.
Telephone, Franklin 6248. Cables, “Ectoplasm, Sowest.”
This Bookshop keeps a unique stock of psychic books, old and new. It is also prepared to
supply customers with any non-psychic literature within a day of order.
It has been established to give a public outlet for our literature in the most central point of
London. Therefore it appeals to all psychic students for support. If ever profits should be
earned they will be devoted to the cause.
We supply psychic libraries of 50 volumes at very reduced prices, payable by instalments,
to churches, societies, etc.
The Circulating Library send books by post at 2/6 a month or one guinea a year.
The Museum (entrance one shilling) contains many objects of psychic interest.
Hours 9 to 6.
______________
251
THE HAUNTING OF CONAN DOYLE
By Leslie Price
For Arthur Conan Doyle it was a day which changed his life deeply and permanently, as he
explained in a letter to his friend Sir Oliver Lodge:
“Pheneas first came through on Dec 10th
1922. He at once plunged into this subject and has
spoken about it continually ever since. He seems to have been sent to us for that express purpose.
It was this which made me take it seriously but as my synopsis shows there have been shadows
before…” 2
Pheneas was a spirit guide in the ACD home circle who prophesied imminent worldwide
cataclysm. The belief, or half-belief, that this was about to happen, made their ordinary life
overshadowed, to put it no stronger. And Pheneas did not just predict this once – he kept on
about it, month after month, year after year. Moreover, Conan Doyle had available a collection
of other prophecies, received through many sources, which also prophesied disaster. It was this
collection which he sent in summary form to Lodge.
The Pheneas case has been generally neglected by both admirers and critics of Doyle. One
reason undoubtedly is that there was no such cataclysm. Earthquakes continued to happen
regularly, but whole countries did not vanish. There was a world war eventually and lots of
smaller wars, but nothing that ended the old order.
A second reason is that the full material was not available. Even the book “Pheneas Speaks” was
a much edited account. The original records ended up at the University of Texas. Few have
consulted them. If we have not considered the full records, we cannot add much. Many other
Doyle family papers were long withdrawn from public view.
The Pheneas teachings added to Doyle’s religious radicalism, giving an extra sense of urgency.
His tract “A word of warning” reprinted in this issue of Psypioneer expressed this, although like
the Pheneas book, it was circumspect about the details of the possible horror to come.
In 1974 Jeffrey Meikle, a young scholar at the University of Texas library had the opportunity of
examining the original Pheneas material. With his permission we quote from his groundbreaking
paper.
[“‘Over There’: Arthur Conan Doyle and Spiritualism” The Library Chronicle of the University
of Texas, n.s.# 8 (1974), 22-37; reprinted in Critical Essays on Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, ed.
Harold Orel (New York: G. K. Hall, 1992), 271-81.]
“Doyle himself became actively involved when an Arabian spirit called Pheneas, who had
announced himself as a personal guide in December 1922, began revealing details of the
2
March 11 1927 SPR archives- Doyle/Lodge 540
252
modern world's Atlantean future.3
Communicating by means of Jean Doyle’s automatic
writing and trance speaking, Pheneas informed them in 1923 that humanity was “sinking into
a slough of evil and materialism” caused by the presence on the earth’s surface of thousands
of evil spirits who had never progressed beyond the first of the spiritual planes. “God's own
light must descend and burn up the evil fumes,” he said, and a band of spiritual scientists was
already at work “connecting vibratory lines of seismic power” to bring about preliminary
earthquakes and tidal waves. The late war would be “as nothing, nothing, nothing, compared
with what lies ahead.” Doyle's own task, Pheneas said, was “to prepare men’s minds so that
when the awakening comes they shall be more ready to receive it”. Doyle would act as “a
battery to others," and the “whole world... in its great extremity” would “cling” to his record
of the revelations.
In 1924 Pheneas began to provide specific details. The “coming world-surrender to God”
would begin at harvest time in 1925 with a great storm moving from west to east, followed
by “a tremendous upheaval in Central Europe,” “the submerging of a Continent,” and then “a
great light from on high.” Hardly a nation would escape. America would face civil war;
Russia, that “black mark upon the map of humanity,” would be destroyed; Africa would be
flooded; Brazil would suffer “an eruption of an extraordinary kind”; and the Vatican, that
“sink of iniquity” from which “countless veins of poison flow to humanity,” would be
“wiped off the face of the globe.” England, however, would be “the beacon light in this dark
world.” Already Christ had approached the “power-station” being erected around Doyle's
home and would soon make his presence known. Then he would withdraw to make final
preparations before returning to proclaim himself, after which Doyle would “rally round
Him” for the final battle. In a small leather notebook entitled “Prophesied Course of Events,”
Doyle recorded that “the whole process will take some years, but I shall survive to the end,
then pass over with my whole family,” a conclusion supported by a Winnipeg medium’s
prediction that he would “not die in the ordinary sense.”
He apparently accepted completely these revelations from Pheneas. Among friends he
circulated “A Short Synopsis of Some Corroborations” containing more than eighty
prophecies of a similar nature reported by other mediums. When the autumn of 1925 passed
without remarkable incident, Pheneas explained that preparations would take longer than
expected, since they had underestimated the strength of the enemy. As a measure of concern
it might be noted that in 1927 members of the British spiritualist community were seriously
considering the problem of how they would distribute their literature in the coming crisis, in
the event of “interruption of railway communication.”4
Pheneas had warned Doyle not to
publicize his prophecies until after the first definite signs of their fulfillment, but early in
1927 his Psychic Press and Bookshop, located in London, offered an expurgated version
called Pheneas Speaks, containing excerpts of a generally sentimental, uplifting nature.
3
The following quotations come from several series of typed transcripts, each with its own pagination, and all
catalogued as “Pheneas speaks.”
4
J. Engledow to George Vale Owen, 17 March 1927.
253
A comparison of the book with the original typescript indicates that Doyle was not above
helping out Pheneas on occasion. Where the typed transcript had Pheneas stating that “the
light will be the greater for the darkness you have passed through,” Doyle wrote in ink a
concluding phrase for the sentence -“in fighting for truth”- and the book contained the
addition (p. 36). But his handwritten interlineations encompassed more than exactness of
expression. To previously typed messages received in 1925 he added supposedly prophetic
remarks concerning earthquakes and storms in Russia, Jamaica, and Australia, complete with
footnotes describing their actual occurrence in 1926 and 1927. These also appeared in the
published book (pp. 116, 123, 127). One might suspect Doyle of fabricating all the messages,
but it is likely that he hoped to ensure the book’s acceptance with a few dramatically fulfilled
predictions.
These few pathetic lapses from his customarily strict ethical code do not detract
significantly from his record as a selfless campaigner for the world's moral reformation
through spiritualism. Shortly before his death Doyle wrote to a friend that he had “broken my
heart in the attempt to give our spiritual knowledge to the world and to give them something
living, instead of the dead and dusty stuff which is served out to them in the name of
religion.” By that time Doyle had begun to wonder if he and his wife were “victims of some
extraordinary prank played upon the human race from the other side,” since none of the
Pheneas predictions had materialized, but his faith in survival itself never wavered.5
He
looked forward to his own passage “over there” as a glorious new beginning, and when the
event occurred on 7 July 1930, it was a cause for quiet celebration among his family and
friends.”
______________
Dr Meikle is now Professor of American Studies and Art History at the University
of Texas at Austin. Recently he kindly reread his paper, and commented to
Psypioneer.
“Of course it is now 35 years in the past, my first publication as a young scholar only 25 years
old, and in a field I subsequently left. However, I'm surprised at how professional it seems,
except for a tone of sarcasm that occasionally creeps in on the subject of what seemed to me
Doyle's credulity. The essay was reprinted in 1992 by Harold Orel in his anthology “Critical
Essays on Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.” Other than that I don't recall any reactions to the essay one
way or the other. I've not written anything further on spiritualism, though given unlimited time I
would someday write about Percy Harrison Fawcett, a fascinating figure whose explorations in
the Amazon region were driven by catastrophist predictions transmitted through mediums.
5
Doyle to Walter Gibbons, 17 March 1930 (typed copy).
254
I think it is too strong to say that I accused Doyle of fraud. You're referring to the last three
paragraphs of the essay, which are based on my comparison of the typed Pheneas transcripts with
the published book “Pheneas Speaks.” I suggest that Doyle did not always transcribe selections
from the transcripts verbatim but edited them to make the language more convincing. This was
common in that era. In addition, however, I did find some specific prophecies in the book that
are not in the typed transcripts held by the Ransom Center. These coincided with events that had
indeed already occurred in the real world. It seemed to me these were added to make it seem as
if subsequent events confirmed the prophecies. Is this fraud of the sort practiced by a man like
Crandon? I don't think so. Doyle was an old man who believed implicitly in the revelations he
had received and wished to impress them upon a doubting world. I refer to this episode as “these
few pathetic lapses from his customarily strict ethical code.” It's not a wholesale attempt at fraud
but more of an embroidery on revelations he wholeheartedly believed in.
I wish my documentation was more complete, but the style of the journal encouraged
minimalism, as I recall. If you wish to compare the typed transcripts with the published book,
please keep in mind my footnote on p. 35, stating that the quotations I used “come from several
series of typed transcripts, each with its own pagination, and all catalogued [by the Ransom
Center] as ‘Pheneas speaks’.” Were there other transcripts in Doyle's possession that are not part
of the Ransom holdings? Personally I doubt it. The Doyle spiritualism collection is so vast and
apparently complete that I can't imagine anything having been omitted. I'm sorry I can’t provide
any further information and wish you well in following up on this issue.”
______________
A positive view of Conan Doyle’s attitude was provided by the biographer Julian
B. Arnold in his book “Giants in Dressing Gowns “(1942).p.193-6. This has been
reprinted in another Doylean anthology edited by Harold Orel: Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle: Interviews and Recollections (1991),
Arnold wrote:
“Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, shortly after the close of the Great War, began to gather examples
of automatic-writings received by ‘sensitives’ during the period between 1920 and 1923. My
own collection of those materials, fascinating though inexplicable, was of such a nature that
Doyle asked me to supply him with copies, and my compliance led to a long and interesting
correspondence. He made an exhaustive study of the combined series, arriving at the
conclusion that they all agreed in another universal war late in 1939 or early in 1940. After
the manner of automatic-writings, the precise time and even the nature of the disasters
foretold were not defined, but each separate writing concurred in the general prophecy of
the perturbed experiences through which the civilized world has recently passed and now
protestingly endures.
Sir Arthur's interpretations of the evil omens, so uniformly described in the writings
examined, were made to me twelve years ago when the political skies were moderately
serene, but as one regards the darkness of those skies today it is strange to recall the famous
255
novelist’s prescience and the correctness of his readings of the scroll of fate. The last of his
letters to me on those matters gloomily confirmed his forebodings. It reads:
Windlesham,
Crowborough,
Sussex.
Oct. 6th, 1927
DEAR MR ARNOLD,
Many thanks for your valuable letter.
You can have no idea of what a concentration of evidence there is, in the automatic-
writings, upon this world disaster, nor how remarkably consistent the various accounts are.
I have, I should think, 50,000 words (in automatic-writings) on this subject, all carefully
copied out and extending over three years.
Then I have about sixty independent testimonies of the coming of a world disaster.
Time is their difficulty but the general impression is that it is at the end of the next
decade.
America will, I fear, suffer greatly. Also Central Europe. Also the Mediterranean basin.
Ireland also, but the British isles less. But all are to catch it. Such is the general sinister
scheme.
That is how I get it. But they always emphasize that it is the good spiritual outcome and
not the sad material means which should be borne in mind. There are to be great psychic
accompaniments and something corresponding to the Second Coming, though hardly as
pictured.
I have told you more details than to anyone else, and I don’t want to seem an alarmist.
Yours sincerely,
A. CONAN DOYLE
It was to prepare against the prognosticated Armageddon that Doyle bent most of his
later energies, and few men have better used their abilities to that end or striven more
diligently to promote good understanding between Americans and Britishers.”
__________________
256
Some members of the Doyle family were not impressed by the Pheneas
material. Georgina Doyle’s book “Out of the Shadows - the untold story of
Arthur Conan Doyle’s First Family” (2004) champions ACD’s daughter Mary
who with Kingsley was the offspring of that first marriage...
“At that time [i.e. 1929] Mary was deeply interested in her father’s guide, or guardian, in
the spirit world. This was Pheneas, described as a Chaldean of great antiquity who had told
Arthur that he had been chosen to make spiritualism universally understood and accepted.
Mary also referred in the article to her stepmother’s remarkable mediumistic powers – but we
hear nothing of this later, which indicates that Mary may have changed her mind on this
point. Jean may have been genuine, but it is likely that imagination and wishful thinking
augmented any real power she may have had.
It is difficult to be objective here - Arthur seems to have believed implicitly that his wife
had acquired the great gift of inspired writing, which later changed to semi-trance
inspirational talking. There is no doubt that the book Pheneas Speaks is a true account of
conversations in séances purporting, through the mediumship of Jean, to be between Arthur
himself and various family members, friends, and others in the spirit world. However it is
impossible to know how much is genuine and how much is Jean’s imagination. John was
quite sure his aunt had no mediumistic powers, and when I asked Claire Oldham if she
believed that Jean was genuine medium the answer was a forthright “ Good God, no.” In fact
knowing that Jean craved attention, it is easy to imagine that after an initial show of
reluctance she realized that she could enjoy considerable notoriety by pursuing the
acquisition of mediumistic gifts. She had imagination and a theatrical nature, and obviously
wanted to impress her husband.”6
Georgina Doyle goes on to critically analyse the flattering references to Jean
and her children in “Pheneas Speaks”.
It is time to draw together these differing testimonies. Unfortunately if Conan
Doyle did “improve” before publication the prophecies that came through
Pheneas, by adding details after the event, psychical researchers would take a
serious view. One of their core activities is scrutinising written or transcribed
communications for evidence of paranormality. Hitherto Conan Doyle has been
regarded as inaccurate at times, but not as wilfully altering records.
We may reasonably conclude that Pheneas was an entity who led Conan Doyle
astray with prophecies of imminent doom that were not fulfilled. ACD’s belief
in him fluctuated, but the full text of the 1930 Gibbon letter shows that it
basically remained to the end, despite doubts. It is interesting that Pheneas does
not feature in the post-mortem communications received by Grace Cooke.
Pheneas had vanished, leaving not a rack behind. LESLIE PRICE
6
Pages 248-9.
257
Conan Doyle’s resignation from the SPR
PP Introductory note: Firstly, we reprint below, contemporary Spiritualist reaction. This is
followed by the SPR’s official response.
THE INTERNATIONAL
PSYCHIC GAZETTE
No. 200. VOL. 18. MAY, 1930. PRICE SIXPENCE NET
Our Outlook Tower.
_________
THE CRISIS IN THE SOCIETY FOR
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
HEARTY SUPPORT FOR SIR A. CONAN DOYLE.
MR. W. H. SALTER, the Honorary Secretary of the S.P.R., in a letter to ourselves published last
month, said: -
“The Society has received several letters from prominent Spiritualists strongly disapproving
of Sir Arthur's action and expressing complete confidence in the Society's methods.”
We mentioned that Sir Arthur, on the other hand, had received many letters from members of
the Society who sympathised with his action, and we publish below short excerpts from these,
which may be left to speak for themselves as to the kind of “complete confidence in the Society's
methods” at present entertained.
A WAVE OF RESIGNATIONS
“I have resigned membership of the S.P.R. I received no help from it.”
“I became a member of the S.P.R. some years ago, but it seemed to me they were doing
nothing constructive, so I dropped my membership.”
258
“After being a member since 1911, I resigned last year for practically the same reasons, after
Mrs. Bulley and several other members had tried to instil some life into the Society without
success.”
“As far as I and many others are concerned, I can only say that the S.P.R. seems to go out of
its way to deny comfort to the bereaved… I have subscribed to the S.P.R. for this year... If there
is no improvement I shall cease to belong to it.”
“Your letter has been a real guide in the matter, and I shall hope to take advantage of your
advice.”
“I am considering your suggestion that I should join your campaign of resignation, but at
present am inclined to wait for Sir Oliver Lodge's pronouncement.”
“I wish to sympathise with your action and to tell you that I, too, resigned my membership
some time ago. . . . I am very glad I have nothing more to do with them.”
“That you can still wield efficient weapons is evident by your letter of resignation from the
S.P.R. I thank you for it. I have many times resented the attitude of that organisation, and shall
not renew my membership.”
“DISGUSTED”
“I have been so disgusted with the hostile attitude of the Society towards everything which
could not be brought within the bounds of Telepathy that I have already resigned my
membership, which discontinued last December.”
“I may say that I read Mr. Besterman's article in the January number of the journal just after I
had finished reading Mrs. Hack's book, and I have immediately sent in my resignation to the
Society, feeling that it was of no help to me in my psychic studies.”
“Only the hope that there was some chance of altering the methods of the Society has induced
me to continue my membership, and I have this year come to the same conclusion as yourself
that this is hopeless. It seems a pity that the oldest body of all should be left to people who are
ruining it, and with whom hardly any medium will sit.”
“I wrote them in the same indignant fashion some months ago in regard to some criticisms
that appeared in the Journal, and the only reply I received was, the Society was not responsible
for the opinions expressed by its contributors !”
“It is not only Spiritualists who are seriously upset by the present methods of the S.P.R. It
seemed to me months ago that the handing over to a Jesuit priest the decision as to the
genuineness of the Scripts of Cleophas was an impertinence, and I wrote to the Secretary about
it, of course without avail. I have since left the Society, after having belonged to it since its
inception. It seems to me that the S.P.R. officials are running pretty close to the wind, for they
259
are taking money in the form of subscriptions from members for the purpose of Psychical
Research, when by their actions they prevent it.”
“HORRID SCENES”
“I agree entirely with all you say regarding the discourtesy and tone of articles written by Mr.
Besterman, and the general state of the Society. In fact I sent in my resignation last autumn,
following the special meetings which were called. These were of such a nature as to fill me with
disgust. It is very sad to see a Society which has held the position of the S.P.R. in a condition of
inactivity and dry dullness, such as is its state to-day. The attempt of a few members, including
myself, to introduce by open voting some new members on the Council was met by a storm of
protest and accusations of desiring to harass the Council, and so on ! No doubt you heard of the
horrid scenes which took place.”
“I have received your letter, every word of which I agree with, and my resignation will
follow. I have been a member of the S.P.R. ever since it started, but it almost seems condoning
dishonesty to continue to subscribe.”
“I have written to the Society to resign. I have paid my subscription for 1930, so suppose my
name will have to remain until the end of the year.”
“Unfortunately I paid up as a life member some 20 years ago, never thinking they would funk
their own cause as they have. However, I have written to the Secretary and asked him to remove
my name from their list of members, as I wish to resign.”
“THEY ONLY HINDER”
“The day on which I received your public protest against the S.P.R.'s unscientific work was
really a happy day for me, because I had learned by my own sad experience how right you were
in saying that they only hinder the real and serious workers. I will, of course, follow your
example, and retire at the end of this year.”
“Oddly enough about three weeks ago, I came to exactly similar conclusions, and sent in my
own resignation, after over twenty years as an associate member, though not knowing that others
had sensed and were ready to protest against the offensive character change which has come over
the honourable Society. . . . The serpent has wormed its way into the nest, and those like Sir
Oliver Lodge of the elder generation are not to be blamed for not seeking a brawl where only
foul blows are struck, and where muck only is to be gained in the encounter.”
“Thanks for your bill of indictment against the S.P.R. It shows plainly that you are as alive
and kicking as ever, and still stand in the foremost rank to repulse every attack. Of course, I read
Besterman's sayings in the journal for January and before. He seems to belong to that kind of
people who see everywhere fraud, folly, and stupidity, who know much better what happens at a
seance than the sitters, who use every opportunity to arouse suspicion, and who never shrink
from calling a rogue or a blockhead any man who expresses his honest conviction of
Spiritualism. I believe ecclesiastical influences work nowadays in the Society, especially
260
Jesuitical. I think it better to resign my associateship in the course of this year, mentioning the
Society's unscientific way of criticising men of the stamp of Bozzano and Bradley. Since the
days of Myers, Hodgson and Hyslop the Society has sunk deeply. But verity will gain the victory
over lies, and yours will be a great part in the victory.”
“Many in Italy will join in thanking you for your stand, Count Bon here among others. If you
personally know Prof. Bozzano and his wonderful nature and indomitable courage for the Cause,
you will understand – as he is a frail man now – how troubled his friends were at such abuse
from such an unexpected direction as the S.P.R."
PROTESTS AND CRITICISMS
“I have written to the President of the S.P.R. in reply to his circular letter… I laid stress on the
fact that the reviewing recently in the S.P.R. Journal has been bad reviewing, quite apart from
its animus and ignorance.”
“I thoroughly sympathise with your feelings about what would appear to be very serious
misrepresentations. I fear they have been unfair in the cases you mention, which is distinctly
bad.”
“My wife and I are humble students of psychic matters and must confess that during the last
three or four years we have derived no real assistance at all from the S.P.R. work. That the S.P.R.
is at present not ‘pulling its weight’ in any way except as a brake on real effort I fear nobody can
deny.”
A Life Member wrote to the Society: - “How such a review could have been accepted by a
Society noted the world over for absence of prejudice either way is difficult to understand. . . I
trust an explanation will appear in an early issue of the journal, with a full withdrawal of the
review.A loss of confidence in the Society by its members would rapidly result in the closing of
the Society.”
“DESTRUCTIVE IN A TRIUMPHANT WAY”
“I feel I must reply to assure you how much I sympathise in your attempt to bring the Society
back to its real objects. It was certainly not formed to negative everything of a psychic nature. I
have been an Associate of the S.P.R. for nearly 20 years, and do not want to leave it unless I am
forced to by their policy… Many prominent members of the Society, including Sir Lawrence
Jones, are, I understand, convinced Spiritualists, but lately all criticisms in the Journal of any
psychic happenings or of books with specialist evidence have been destructive, and destructive
in a triumphant way. For Mr. Besterman to go off on a tour of Continental mediums for four
months and to return reporting joyously that all was negative, doubtful, or fraudulent, proclaims
him unfitted for his work of research. Some people never succeed in getting evidence, and he is
obviously one such unfortunate.”
“Reading your circular I must inform you that you have indeed guessed the inmost thoughts,
not only of myself, but also of most of the scientific explorers of psychical research here in
261
Munich, of whom many have hitherto been members of the S.P.R. In autumn, 1928, Mr.
Besterman was here in Munich, and Baron Schrenck-Notzing and other renowned men agreed
that the S.P.R. made a great mistake in sending such a young and inexperienced gentleman
abroad, who, instead of increasing the high repute of the Society, only injured it. I myself was
struck by the article in the journal regarding the seances at Millesimo Castle, by the insulting
manner of its criticism. Certainly criticism must be allowed, but in my judgment it was an
impudence to attack Prof. Bozzano in such an offensive way.”
“I join entirely with you in your indignation. I experienced the same sensation when I read
Besterman's libellous article. It is impossible to excuse his offence, no matter how obliquitous
his mentality. By that article he has disgraced the S.P.R.”
“In my opinion the Society has not advanced a single step since the publication of Myer’s
‘Human Personality.’”
“It is with great pleasure that I have learned of your action, and I trust it will be the means of
enabling psychic research; as such, to proceed untrammelled by the outworn fallacies of
physicists.”
“I have had myself such illuminating direct experiences that the kind of discussions printed in
the S.P.R.'s. Proceedings merely bores me. And it bores others, for I am certain that it is rarely
that the best cases of psychical experience are now submitted to the censors in office.”
“I am glad you have taken this matter up because many of the members are looking for a lead.
We have clung to the Society while your name and Sir Oliver Lodge's were on the list, but with
increasing impatience.”
“I have written to Mr. Besterman, with whom I am on some slight terms of correspondence,
to express my deep regret at the method and tone of some more recent communications in the
journal. They do not conduce to friendly feeling, nor to the progress of the researches for which
the S.P.R. was founded.”
A LIVELY MEETING
“I attended the General Meeting of the S.P.R. last Thursday evening. There were between 20
and 30 members present, with Sir Lawrence Jones in the chair. . . .
“I put the question to Mr. Besterman that since, in an endeavour to explain the phenomena at
the Millesimo sittings, he alleged that they were perpetrated by fraud, would he please explain to
the meeting what motive the Marquis Centurione could have had in perpetrating fraud ? The
Chairman immediately got up and said, ‘I rule the question out of order.’ This is the usual
method of thwarting an awkward discussion.
“However, a little later on, I had the opportunity of speaking again, and I then gave
Besterman the most terrible verbal thrashing he has ever received in his life.
262
“I also severely criticised and reprimanded Mr. W. H. Salter, and told him that he was
abusing his position as Hon. Secretary of the S.P.R. by his browbeating, domineering, and
prejudiced attitude.
“At the end of my denouncement I said that whilst I had no race prejudices I considered that
while any number of graduates from the English Universities possessed the necessary
qualifications to occupy the position of Librarian and Editor of the ‘journal’ of the S.P.R., it was
most questionable policy on the part of the Council that this position should have been given to a
Pole.
“You could have heard a pin drop, and several of them seemed to shrink in their chairs.
Directly I had finished the Chairman got up and said, ‘After this scene I must close the meeting.’
“As I drove away two or three members came up and shook hands with me, saying they
agreed with everything I had said.”
____________________
PP Introductory Note: The official response to Sir Arthur’s resignation as a member appeared
in the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research, March 1930 p. 45 – 52. We thank the
Society for making a photocopy available to us.
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE'S
RESIGNATION
FOR the purpose of record we reprint below certain documents which have already been
circulated to our Members and Associates, namely: I. A circular from Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle dated January 1930; II. A reply to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s circular by the
President and the Hon. Secretaries; III. A reply by Mr Besterman to Sir Arthur's circular
so far as it concerned Mr Besterman’s review of Modern Psychic Mysteries.
Although the Council regard this particular controversy as a very trivial matter, it is
conceivable that at some future date our members may wish to know exactly what
occurred, and for that purpose we feel justified in reprinting these three documents.
We are glad to report that very few of our members have adopted Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle’s advice to resign from the Society. The total of resignations in which his circular
or Mr Besterman's review is mentioned is two to date (27 February); and the total of all
resignations since his circular is six.
On the other hand, the Council have received several letters disapproving of Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle’s circular or expressing confidence in the way in which the
263
Society’s affairs are conducted. Among the members who have written in this way may
be mentioned Mr F. C. Constable, Miss Dallas, Mr Stanley De Brath, General Sir
Reginald Hart, V.C., and Dr Osty, to whom the Council wish to express their thanks.
I. SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE'
S CIRCULAR.
DEAR SIR (OR MADAM),
I had occasion recently [on the 22nd of January 1930. Ed.] to send the following letter
to the Chairman of the Council of the S.P.R. : -
“Dear Sir,
“I have just read an article in the January number of the Journal by Mr Besterman upon
the Millesimo sittings. It is, in my judgment, such a series of misrepresentations and
insulting innuendoes that it tends to lower the good name of the Society. The insolence
by which the considered opinion of a man like Professor Bozzano, who was present, is set
aside and treated with contempt by one who was not present, and who has had very little
experience of psychical research, makes one ashamed that such stuff should be issued by an
official of a Society which has any scientific standing.
To appreciate the full absurdity, as well as the gratuitous offensiveness of Mr Besterman’s
alternative theory of fraud, one has to visualise what it exactly implies. It means that an Italian
nobleman of old family, a member of the legislative body, has invited a circle of friends to his
home in order to practice a succession of complicated frauds upon them. That he is himself
implicated is shown by the fact that levitation of his own body and other personal phenomena are
among those most clearly recorded. Having assembled his guests he causes the voices of his own
dead relatives and others to be sounded in the room. A lady confederate conceals under the short
modern skirt a long medieval rapier, a matador’s sword, a big doll and other objects quite unseen
by a critical company. She or some other confederate produces a large balloon-like object which
hovers above the company, and in some unspecified way produces blasts of ice-cold air. All these
and many other wonders are brought off so successfully that in a succession of sittings the
company, including Professor Bozzano, are completely deceived, and the latter stakes his scientific
reputation upon the truth of the phenomena. This is the picture which Mr Besterman’s theory of
fraud would compel us to accept, the whole being done with no conceivable object. Can we dignify
such nonsense as this by the name of Psychical Research, or is it not the limit of puerile perversity?
“A further example of prejudice is to be found in the allusions on page 15 of the same Journal to
the real psychic researcher, Mr Dennis Bradley, and to George Valiantine in Berlin. The assertions
of the opponents of Spiritualism are at once accepted on their face value without the slightest
attempt at discriminate examination.
“I have long waited hoping that the Podmore, Dingwall, Besterman tradition of obtuse negation
at any cost would die away. But as there is no sign of it, and the obsession seems rather to become
more pronounced, my only resource is, after thirty-six years of patience, to resign my own
membership and to make some sort of public protest against the essentially unscientific and biassed
264
work of a Society which has for a whole generation produced no constructive work of any kind,
but has confined its energies to the misrepresentation and hindrance of those who have really
worked at the most important problem ever presented to mankind.
Yours faithfully,
ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE.”
Those of us who are conscious of the extreme importance of the movement called
“Spiritualism,” or even those who are desirous to see fair play in the matter, must be aware of the
way in which the Society, originally intended to be a sympathetic and fair centre for inquiry, seems
to have become simply an anti-spiritualist organisation. Everything which tends to prove the truth
of that cult, no matter how honourable or sane the source may be, is assailed by suppression,
misrepresentation and every sort of unreasonable and vicious opposition.
For a generation, since the death of Myers and the end of the Piper sittings, the Society has done
no constructive work of any importance, and has employed its energies in hindering and belittling
those who are engaged in real active psychical research. This latest article of Mr Besterman may be
insignificant in itself, but it is a link in that long chain of prejudice which comes down from Mr
Podmore, Mrs Sedgwick [sic], and Mr Dingwall, to the present day. It is necessary, as it seems to
me, to call a halt, and to make inquiry as to how far the Society is to be for ever in the hands of this
small central body of reactionaries; or whether they really represent the opinion of the members. It
is not desirable that the Society should lose its independence or become a Spiritualistic body, but it
is most essential that it shall not treat what so many regard as a matter of supreme importance with
the irresponsibility and levity which have been shown hitherto, where it has been the custom again
and again for a commentator to jeer at phenomena which he has not witnessed, in the face of the
most cogent evidence of their having actually occurred.
I would ask those who would wish to appreciate what I say to read Mr Besterman’s article in
the January Journal, and then Professor Bozzano’s measured and dignified preface to Mrs Hack’s
“Modern Psychic Mysteries” (Rider), which treats of these sittings.
This matter is of more importance than would at first sight appear, for I say deliberately that
these Millesimo sittings are on the very highest possible level of psychical research, both from the
point of view of accurate reporting, variety of phenomena, and purity of mediumship. Therefore, if
they can be laughed out of court anything we can produce will be treated with similar contempt. I
can hardly believe, as I read Mr Besterman’s criticism, that he has actually read the book. It bristles
with errors of fact. He complains that we are not told where the sword was apported from. On page
93 may be read: “The weapon had been lying on a large table on the second floor of the palace. In
a direct ... thirty yards.” He talks of the apports as if their extreme length was two feet (in order to
insinuate that they could be concealed by the lady). On page 176 is a picture of a lance 6 feet long,
and on page 208 of a plant 4½ feet high-both apports. He complains that he does not know what a
flexatone is, and yet it is described on page 97. Yet this slovenly critic takes advantage of his
official position in order to warn the reading public of the S.P.R. away from this most important
book. I have waited long in the hope of some reform but I have now concluded that it is not to be
expected, and that the influence of the Society is entirely for evil. I have, therefore, resigned my
membership, and the protest would be more effective if those who agree with me would see their
265
way to follow my example. It need not hamper their psychic studies. In the British College of
Psychic Science, 15, Queen's Gate, W., they will find an Institution where they can participate
themselves in real positive psychical research, with mediums at hand to be tested, a good library,
an excellent quarterly magazine, and an atmosphere which is progressive and not stagnant.
I write this under a strong sense of duty, for I am now one of the oldest members of the S.P.R. I
am convinced, however, that they have long been not a help but a hindrance to the psychical
knowledge of the world, and that a strong protest is called for.
I may add that, having uttered such a protest, I cannot undertake to enter upon prolonged
argument or correspondence, nor can I attend meetings, as my health hardly permits me to leave
the house.
Yours faithfully,
ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE,
M.D. (Edin.), LL.D.
January 1930.
I would remind members of the words of that great pioneer, Sir William Barrett: “A scepticism
which is too lofty to see the existence of a mass of evidence under its very eyes is anything but
healthy. It calls for medical attention.”
II. REPLY BY THE PRESIDENT AND HON. SECRETARIES.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has been a member of our Society for very many years; he is an author
many of whose writings have given great pleasure to all of us; and he is now, most regrettably, ill.
On all three grounds the Officers of the Society would have wished to avoid entering into
controversy with him, but the circular he has recently addressed to our members, inviting them to
follow his example in resigning from the Society, calls for an early reply.
To Sir Arthur Conan Doyle Spiritualism is, to use his own phrase, a “cult,” and it is a natural
consequence of this point of view that, however sincerely he may protest his desire that the Society
should retain its “independence,” he should regard as “obtuse negation” and “unreasonable and
vicious opposition” any criticism of the phenomena on which those who take the “cult” view of
Spiritualism are content to base their faith.
It has been one of the great achievements of the Society that it has always comprised among its
active and loyal members persons whose views on Spiritualism ranged from complete acceptance
to total denial: this has only been possible because an atmosphere of toleration combined with
frank mutual criticism has been congenial to most of its members. But it would be too much to
expect that it should be to the liking of all, and from time to time some of our more dogmatic
members, both Spiritualists and Anti-Spiritualists, have revolted against it. There have been
various secessions in the past, but the Society has never allowed itself to be deflected by them from
the purpose for which it was founded, namely critical investigation.
266
It has always been the rule of the Society that the responsibility for both the facts and the
reasonings in papers and articles printed in Proceedings or the Journal should rest entirely with
their authors. It is therefore easy, in a Society as inclusive as ours, for anyone seeking to make a
case for “obtuse negation” to select a list of papers having a tendency to deny the supernormality
of particular phenomena. It would be equally easy to make out as impressive a list of papers
published in recent years which were strongly affirmative of the genuineness of them or of other
phenomena.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle says “For a generation, since the death of Myers and the end of the
Piper sittings, the Society has done no constructive work of any importance.” The Piper sittings
continued, of course, for several years after Myers's death, and the principal report on them was
published in 1915, which can hardly be called a “generation” back. Shortly after that (in 1919) was
published the first of the many papers on Mrs Leonard, all of which can claim to be as
“constructive” as the reports on Mrs Piper, and many of which are written from a definitely
Spiritualistic point of view. Does Sir Arthur suggest that these are of no importance?
It would presumably be useless to remind Sir Arthur Conan Doyle of the fact that in connection
with cross-correspondences the Society has during the alleged dark period developed and patiently
pursued an entirely new line of research; he has expressed his personal opinion that the cross-
correspondences are not of much value, but this opinion is not shared by a large number of our
members, including several who are as convinced Spiritualists as Sir Arthur himself.
Nor is he probably much interested in the work the Society has done in elucidating the
problems of telepathy, though here again he would find himself in disagreement with many
Spiritualists, who hold that only on a proper understanding of telepathy can a reasonable case for
survival be founded.
It is apparently by the attitude to physical phenomena of contributors to Proceedings that the
Society is, in Sir Arthur’s opinion, to be judged. Has Sir Arthur forgotten the report (1909) of the
Naples sittings with Eusapia Palladino, reckoned by many investigators the strongest evidence on
record for the genuineness of physical phenomena? And the Willi Schneider sittings at Tavistock
Square in 1924?
If the Society's investigations into physical phenomena have throughout its history been
infrequent, this is due to the high standard of control conditions on which the Society has always,
and properly, insisted, and to the preference shown by physical mediums for the much lower
standard maintained elsewhere.
On Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s strictures on Mr Besterman’s review of the Millesimo sittings we
do not propose to dwell at length, as Mr Besterman is replying to them separately. It is, however, to
be noted that sittings held in complete darkness, for the most part without control and without any
searching of those present, sittings at which phenomena were produced which cannot be paralleled
in the records of any sittings held under good control conditions, are described by Sir Arthur as “on
the very highest possible level of psychical research.” Further comment is superfluous.
267
The theory that since Myers’s death the Society, or the Officers or Council, have developed an
Anti-Spiritualistic bias is as lacking in foundation as the contrary theory (which we have also heard
expressed) that in recent years it and they have become uncritically Spiritualistic.
(Signed) LAWRENCE J. JONES, President.
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGW1CK
W.H. SALTER Hon. Secretaries.
14 February 1930.
III. REPLY BY MR BESTERMAN.
As Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has made a contribution of mine to the Journal the ostensible cause
of his attack on the Society, I have been given this opportunity of replying on my own behalf to his
circular so far as it concerns my review of the Millesimo sittings.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle is “ashamed” that I set aside the “considered opinion” of Signor
Bozzano, and he considers the alternative theory of fraud to be absurd and gratuitously offensive.
But even during my acquaintance with the work of the Society (to the brevity of which Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle refers) I have learned that the S.P.R. is concerned not with opinions but with facts,
and that it is not accustomed to flinch from offering alternative hypotheses where those first
suggested do not appear to be in accordance with the facts. What I wrote was written on the basis
of such facts as are put before us by Signor Bozzano, and was not concerned with his opinions. If
Signor Bozzano or Sir Arthur Conan Doyle consider my conclusions inaccurate, let them put
forward facts, not opinions, to refute them.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s objections to my statements of fact are contained in the following two
sentences from his letter: “A lady confederate conceals under the short modern skirt a long
medieval rapier, a matador's sword, a big doll and other objects quite unseen by a critical company.
She or some other confederate produces a large balloon-like object which hovers above the
company, and in some unspecified way produces blasts of ice-cold air.” This is not the case: I say
nothing about a lady confederate; I say nothing about a “short” skirt, since Signor Bozzano gives
no information on this point, and Signora Rossi may equally well have been wearing a “modern”
evening gown, which would have been long; I do not speak in this connection of “a long medieval
rapier, a matador’s sword, a big doll and other objects,” but merely of a doll which I suggest
measured at most fifteen inches, and of a short sword in its scabbard, which I suggest to have been
about two feet long (all these “suggestions” are inevitable, since Signor Bozzano does not himself
give the necessary information). Even so I merely say that these two objects could have been
hidden in a woman’s dress; I do not say they were, and I also specifically refer to the window of
the room about which we are given no information. I do not refer to a “large balloon-like object
which hovers” but to a small balloon that does not hover. It is hardly correct to say that the method
suggested by me of producing cold currents is “unspecified,” since I devote an entire paragraph to
a careful account of this well-known method. Finally, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle refers to the
“critical company;” all the evidence, in fact, points to the company having been utterly uncritical.
268
I need say nothing about the third paragraph of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s letter, since he has
corrected his mistake in a subsequent communication. The remarks objected to are not by me but
by P.-P.-S., and are in any case merely a quite accurate summary of an article which was under
review. [The third paragraph of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's letter to the Council originally started,
“A further example of this gentleman's prejudice . . .”]
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's observations as to the Society’s policy it is not in my province to
answer. But I may observe that the “Podmore, Dingwall, Besterman tradition of obtuse negation,”
is a tradition of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s own invention, though I am proud to be associated in
this way with Podmore, for whose critical methods I have the greatest admiration.
The above lines were written for printing in the Journal as a reply to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s
letter to the Council. In his circular Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has added further criticisms of my
review, to which I now reply as briefly as possible. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle says that I complain
“that we are not told where the sword was apported from,” and goes on to quote a passage
tending to show that we are told. This is not the case: two different swords are in question. Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle says of me, “He talks of the apports as if their extreme length was two feet .
. .” This is not the case: I do not make any such statement. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle writes of
me., “He complains that he does not know what a flexatone is, and yet it is described on page
97.” This is not the case: what I wrote is that the “flexatone” is not illustrated or adequately
described, and that I have been unable to find any reference to it in the standard musical and
other works of reference.
(Signed) THEODORE BESTERMAN.
14 February 1930.
__________________
269
ACD’s AUSTRALIAN HELPER
The name of Leslie Curnow is known to every reader of ACD’s “History of
Spiritualism” since the author early explains: -
“It was clear that such a work needed a great deal of research - far more than I in my crowded
life could devote to it. It is true that my time was in any case dedicated to it, but the literature is
vast, and there were many aspects of the movement which claimed my attention. Under these
circumstances I claimed and obtained the loyal assistance of Mr. W. Leslie Curnow, whose
knowledge of the subject and whose industry have proved to be invaluable. He has dug
assiduously into that vast quarry; he has separated out the ore from the rubbish, and in every way
he has been of the greatest assistance. I had originally expected no more than raw material, but
he has occasionally given me the finished article, of which I have gladly availed myself, altering
it only to the extent of getting my own personal point of view. I cannot admit too fully the loyal
assistance which he has given me, and if I have not conjoined his name with my own upon the
title-page it is for reasons which he understands and in which he acquiesces.”
This raises the question of course of whether Curnow was responsible for any of
the errors in HOS. At any rate, he took a natural interest in the impact of the book,
and called attention in LIGHT October 16 1926, p 484 to some reviews.
REVIEWERS REVIEWED
SIR A. CONAN DOYLE'S “HISTORY OF SPIRITUALISM”
BY LESLIE CURNOW
By the issue of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s important “History of Spiritualism” (Cassells, 2
vols, 42s.) a unique opportunity has been afforded of getting some idea of the attitude of the
Press of this country towards Spiritualism. For some years it has been evident that a more
enlightened tone of opinion prevailed, and now that view is thoroughly substantiated. It may be
said without fear of contradiction that the “History” has been well received. I have read some
thirty to forty reviews in London and provincial newspapers, and for the most part they are
couched in complimentary terms. More than one congratulates Sir Arthur on his fairness, and
open-mindedness in stating his views, in seeing the weak spots, and not being afraid to speak of
them. One writer who was impressed by this aspect of the “History” says, “The zeal of the
devotee is held in check by the inhibitions of a cool, shrewd, impartial and judging mind.”
The following extracts may be quoted as instances of a welcome breadth of view: -
“The day has gone by when Spiritualism can be dismissed with a contemptuous shrug of the
shoulders as a palpable system of fraud. . . . Even the churches, as well as the average man, have
come to admit that there is something in it.”
270
“It requires more credulity to believe that scientific investigators were throughout duped in
their investigations, than to believe that the phenomena they avow were produced.”
“If there have been fraudulent mediums, it is also not an uncommon thing to find a clergyman
in the dock.”
“When men like Sir Arthur and Sir Oliver Lodge are such convinced upholders of the
doctrine, we can no longer find complacent comfort in the reflection that its appeal is only to the
ignorant and the gullible.”
While there are these more tolerant views, there is yet to be found in some quarters a curious
want of knowledge of the subject, as when one newspaper spoke of Sir Arthur as the author of
“Raymond”!
It is not surprising, perhaps to find in these Press notices an almost total lack of what may be
called informed criticism. Certainly there was Sir Oliver Lodge's lengthy notice running through
two issues of “T. P.’s and Cassell’s Weekly,” but this only served as a bright contrast to the rest.
In the notices of the religious Press there is a respectful tone, though no sign of any
enthusiasm for the subject. This can be understood if the following passage is a correct
presentation of the views of the churches.
“A profound gulf is fixed between the doctrines of the Christian Church in all its branches,
and the teachings of Spiritualism. Undivided Christendom believed that redeemed souls awaited
in a penitential state the coming of the Judge and Saviour. . . Protestant teaching is summed up in
the words of the Shorter Catechism, ‘The souls of believers are at their death made perfect in
holiness, and do immediately pass into glory.’”
The teachings of Spiritualism are certainly in conflict with this latter statement.
Another Church paper considers that, “If what Sir Arthur Conan Doyle anticipates with such
fervour should come to pass, and converse with the dead of the kind which we find here
described become a commonplace, there would be an end to faith and also to hope.”
If so, faith and hope would have been replaced by something far more sustaining, that is, by
knowledge, Clergymen of all denominations have been ready to confess that when they became
convinced of the truths of Spiritualism a new world of comfort and enlightenment was theirs. For
instance, the Rev. F. C. Spurr in his little book, “The Heart of a Father,” speaking of the death of
his son, said:
“The only thing of importance to me was the knowledge that my boy really lived in the Spirit
World. I wanted to know. More hope and vague belief were singularly unsatisfying. “And then
when knowledge came to him, and he was satisfied beyond doubt that he was in touch with his
boy, his heart cry is, “This new experience has transformed our lives. The spirit world in which
my wife and I have always ‘believed’ has now become a very real place to us.”
271
This manly confession of the value of substituting knowledge for mere vague belief should
serve as sufficient answer to the fears expressed by the ecclesiastical organ.
One of the strangest criticisms comes from Miss Evelyn Underhill in the “Observer.” As this
lady has delivered an address to the members of the London Spiritualist Alliance she can hardly
be without some sympathy with its aims, and therefore her remarks must be attributed to want of
understanding. In speaking of the woman of Endor (whom she goes out of her way to malign by
calling the Witch of Endor), she says it was she who “purported to summon the great spirit of the
prophet from the place of rest, and never the prophet himself who sought such communications
from the unknown.”
Psychic students do not need to be reminded how utterly wrong this statement is, first in the
idea of being able to “summon” anyone, and, second, the old, moss-grown idea of a “place of
rest.”
After admitting that the lives of the saints show a real connection between sanctity and
“certain kinds of psychic abnormality,” and that their lives provide numerous and striking
examples of post-mortem appearances, she goes on, “Yet, in spite of this, it is surely not too
severe to say that truly spiritual minds have seldom been Spiritualistic, and that the ‘high
teachings’ obtained through mediumistic channels at once betray their shoddiness, when
compared with the utterances of the saints.”
It is difficult to understand what is meant by the remark that spiritual minds have seldom been
Spiritualistic, but in so far as these minds have been in touch with spiritual verities then they
have been at one with the highest and best in Spiritualism. In the second criticism we seem to
detect a regrettable note of prejudice. From both sources the teaching is lofty, and whichever it is
that one finds the more helpful is a matter of spiritual temperament.
What are we to say to Miss Underhill’s further objection that the Spiritualistic heaven is
“essentially comfortable”? Does she expect to find it uncomfortable? At the same time her view
is surely a lamentably inexact inference from, say, the Vale Owen script and others of the same
kind. Heaven, of course, or any other abode of happiness must have characteristics that may be
described, if inaptly, as “comfortable,” but in no sense the smug, or mere arm-chair comfort
which Miss Underhill intends to convey. Indeed, all the accounts that come to us from the spirit
world agree that life there, while one of congenial occupation, is made up of high endeavour in
ministering to the wants of others.
Not for many years has there been such a flood of publicity as that given to Sir Arthur's
notable “History,” and the discussion thus aroused cannot fail to excite fresh interest in the cause
of Spiritualism.
___________________________
272
But who was Leslie Curnow? Sometimes this kind of question is answered only in
the obituaries, and sadly this came swiftly, in Light December 18, 1926 p. 602.
THE PASSING OF MR LESLIE CURNOW
It is with great regret that we learn of the passing from us on Saturday, the 11th instant, after a
short illness, of Leslie Curnow, who was for many years an enthusiastic worker in the Spiritualist
movement. The son of the editor of a leading Australian newspaper, the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” Mr. Curnow, who obtained the degree of Bachelor of Arts at Sydney University, took
up the career of journalism, and coming to England in 1913, was engaged by the London
“Times” and other important newspapers, including the “Sunday Times.” He was for some time
a member of the staff of LIGHT and subsequently embarked upon authorship and lecturing, in
connection with Spiritualism and Psychic Research, in which he met with marked success. He
assisted Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in the production of “The History of Spiritualism,” and also
wrote a book, “The Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism,” which was well received.
He was a “plain blunt man,” of great sincerity and honesty of purpose, and the affection in
which he was held was testified to in no uncertain manner on Sunday last, when the
congregations at the Æolian and Grotrian Halls rose in silent tribute to his memory.
We extend to Leslie Curnow, in his new stage of life, our sincere good wishes at this present
season of Goodwill to all men.
More tributes were paid at the funeral, reported in Light December 25, 1926 p.
609: -
THE PASSING OF LESLIE CURNOW
The interment of the mortal remains of Leslie Curnow took place at St. Pancras
Cemetery, East Finchley, on Thursday, 16th inst., in the presence of a large group of his
friends. A short service in the cemetery chapel was conducted by the Rev. Geo. Vale
Owen, assisted by the Rev. H. M. S. Bankart, the regular chaplain, and Mrs. Philip
Champion de Crespigny read the 23rd Psalm. At the graveside Sir Arthur Conan Doyle said
a few impressive words in tribute to the departed worker. He said he was reminded of a
similar occasion when, in California, it was said of a dead friend; “The cage is outgrown,
but the bird soars and sings above it.” So they might say of their dear brother, Leslie
Curnow, that his cage was broken and the bird had escaped to a happier region. They were
simply there to lay the cage on the scrap heap of old cages. His spirit had passed to a state
of peace and rest, after the struggle of earth. He was a good comrade; a man to whom they
could turn in need without fear of his failing them. They would miss him sorely, although
knowing be would still be with them in their work in that new life upon which he had
entered. They had not to say farewell to him, but only au revoir.
273
The Rev. Geo. Vale Owen, addressing the arisen spirit as “our brother and fellow
soldier,” said: “May God and His angels keep you, and the peace of our Lord Jesus Christ
be with you.”
Amongst the friends present, in addition to those already mentioned were the Duchess
of Hamilton, Miss Lind-af-Hageby, Mr. Horace Leaf, Mr. Dawson Rogers, and Mr. David
Gow. A number of Mr. Curnow's friends from the Hampden Club and others, whose names
could not be obtained, were also in attendance.
A letter we have received from the Secretary of the Hampden Club states: “Mr. Curnow
was held in high esteem by all who knew him here, and we are all very shocked at his
sudden end.” Mr. Curnow was, we believe, a resident of the Hampden Club for some ten
years or more. He was 58 years of age.
Two other friends sent tributes.
The first of several written tributes appeared in LIGHT January 29, 1927 p. 52.
SOME MEMORIES OF LESLIE CURNOW
Mr. James Coates writes: -
It was my privilege to know Mr. Curnow very well, and I soon recognised his ability, personal
character and deep interest in Spiritualism. I had tea with him twice in his room in the Hampden
Club, and was astonished at his library. He spent hours searching second-hand shops and
bookstalls – hours that another man would take for rest and recreation after his strenuous day’s
work. He had the Colonial manner – a little free but never ungentlemanly – and he was given to
strong likes and dislikes.
I had much pleasure in introducing Mr. Curnow – a stranger – to several interesting people, and
to one séance - with Mrs. Susanna Harris. In this case one experience was enough. He felt the
séance was evidential, but it lacked in spirituality. He never went back again. It was too coarse for
him.
In absence on holiday of the Editor of LIGHT he was in the chair. I was in Aberdeen about
1922 to 1923. The city was in a great state of excitement about a haunted house. The police
officials believed in the haunting. On the receipt of a wire from Mr. Curnow desiring me to inquire,
I got permission from the Chief Constable to investigate. In company with a well-known
Spiritualist I visited the house, interviewed the people, and drew certain conclusions. The head of
the house was a person of doubtful standing, making a good bit out of the visitors. As to the
“haunting,” it was clearly due to natural causes- ricketty flooring, and crumbling of the walls
below. I sent a wire to Mr. Curnow to this effect: “There is nothing in the hauntings. All due to
natural causes.” The local Press got the full particulars, and the hauntings ceased.
274
A short time before Sir Arthur Conan Doyle sailed to Australia, Mr. Curnow, rendered him
some service. From that time till before Mr. Curnow’s demise, I have reason to think that Sir
Arthur appreciated his ability and service, and paid his grateful tribute to the memory of Curnow at
the graveside.
Let me place a stone of memory on his cairn.
A second tribute appeared in LIGHT February 12, 1927 page 78.
MORE MEMORIES OF LESLIE CURNOW
MRS. F. E. LEANING writes: -
As an intimate friend of the late Leslie Curnow, it has given me great pleasure to see the
kindly notices of him that have appeared in LIGHT and elsewhere. It was really he who started
me on such career as a writer as I have had, for my, prepossessions concerning the power and the
glory of editors were too strong altogether for me to have dared to submit any work direct to
such august beings. Mr. Curnow, however, was not an editor, but an assistant editor, a kind man
who would sit down beside one like an ordinary human being, and to whom I was not afraid to
display my perplexities. Perhaps the present Editor of LIGHT will not mind my adding here that
my terrors yielded by degrees to the discovery that even the chief can be the kindest and most
modest of friends, and can combine gaiety and comradeship with the wielding of power and
authority. But in the beginning of our acquaintance I was too timid and too dazed with
excitement to do him justice. Thus it happened one day, when Mr. Curnow had tantalised me
with the sight of a new book which he had in hand to review, that he suddenly put it into my
hands and said, “Take it home with you and see what you can make of it.”
I rose at once into a “superior condition,” and took it home, walking on air. It seemed to me
great fun to play at reviewing a book: of course, I had never done such a thing in my life, and did
not for a moment think it anything but a jest. Forty-eight hours later I sent my sheets to Mr.
Curnow: with a saucy note: “How’s your reviewing? I've done mine! And I've left in all the little
bites, for there isn't time to copy it out.” I had the most stupefying surprise of my life when I got
a note from the Editor accepting it, and did not believe it would really be printed even then. But
it was, with only one word altered.
After this, as we grew in mutual respect for each other’s acquirements, my literary comrade
did me many and many a good turn, for we were eager book-worms both, and though his
collection far out-numbered mine, he helped me constantly to the kind of books I wanted, and his
advice and knowledge were invaluable. Another fellow-enthusiast, still left I am thankful to say,
for our comforting, writes to me thus: “I was indeed sorry about Leslie Curnow. I hardly knew
him, but I liked what I did know. I loved him for his frankness and sincerity. He did great work.
He was full of energy and enthusiasm: that also attracted me to him. I love enthusiasm, I detest
inertia. Frankly, life is work; I can't conceive of any other.”
275
Yes, for him too, life was work: it is the great ensign that flies over the Universe. Heaven
sends no better boom than that of finding our work and the fellowship of good co-workers.
__________________
There was however further news of Curnow, and it came suitably enough from Sir
Arthur himself, in LIGHT January 22, 1927 p. 39.
THE RETURN OF LESLIE CURNOW
BY SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
On his death bed I made a compact with Leslie Curnow that he should come back to me
through Mrs. Barkel. On Wednesday, the 5th inst., I was able to get a sitting with that medium at
the Psychic College. Two-thirds of the sitting was taken up with other communications. Then the
following came through. I omit long portions which are private.
“He wants to say [the control was talking] that it was the happiest time of his life his passing
over, because it showed him how many true friends he had. When he was told before that he had
much work to do he thought it was with you, but it was really over here.
“He says that he hopes, if possible his library will not be scattered. It was his life’s work;
keep it in the movement. The books, if separated would fetch very little, so it is of no use to
anyone save Spiritualists.
“He says what a beautiful thing; death is. The last thing that he can remember is seeing Mrs.
Stobart and then dropping off to sleep, and waking to find his dear father, mother and brother
waiting for him.
“Since he has been over here he had made himself known to several on your side.
“ ‘I wouldn't come back, Sir Arthur, much as I love the movement. I can see further now and
do more.’
(These words were uttered in a very close approximation to his ordinary voice. It was most
convincing.)
“I [the control] met him because I promised I would,
“Will you look into the notes which he made for a little book on mental phenomena and put
them in order?
(A. C. D.: “I will do my best, but you know I am hard pressed”)
276
He is laughing now. He is thinking of your shop. He says that he did you over a book. He says
he bought one book at your shop for two shillings and he would not part with it for fifty pounds.”
“What was it about?”
“It was an old book, out of print. It was about mediumship. Very old and discoloured.
He says, ‘Make sure of your old books before you sell them so cheap.’ He is still laughing.
“Now he talks of Australia. He wishes to send his love to his sister.
“He says that no words he has heard or read can describe or come near the wonders of the
spirit world. If he had his life once again he says that he would fight tooth and nail for it. It is the
greatest and most glorious truth ever known and men, through their own ignorance, have
forfeited their birthright, which was conscious union with the spirit world and angelic guidance.
“He says that he has met many of the old timers here. It seems that there is a great stir to work
in. unity in order to bring about a greater knowledge of the laws of communication.
“It will become the universal religion despite what any may say to the contrary.
“When the times of trouble are over Curnow says that the spirit voices will be audible in the
land and man will again walk hand in hand with his angelic guides.
“He came to his own funeral and heard something of a little bird which pleased and amused
him.”
Those were the chief points in his communication. One has to admit that the medium was
familiar with Curnow’s affairs and may have retained, even in trance, a subconscious memory of
them. It is also to be noted that I asked for him before he came through, so that it did not appear
to be spontaneous. On the other hand it is quite possible that he was waiting his turn and would
have come even if I had not asked. The evidential points are the reference to Mrs. Stobart which
I know to be true, though the medium, so far as I know, did not. His views about his library are
characteristic but not strictly evidential. The use of his own voice for a single sentence was
extremely impressive. He had a peculiar nasal rising intonation when he used to say the words
“Sir Arthur” which was exactly reproduced. The point about the unfinished book is true, but may
have been within the knowledge of the medium, and the same applies to the allusion to a bird at
the funeral. The reference to the valuable book bought for two shillings, and his amusement at
the transaction is very characteristic. He bought several books at the shop, and I shall have some
difficulty in tracing this particular one, but if I can do so in would certainly be an excellent test.
The total result of the interview, making every allowance for the particles from the medium’s
mind which are always swept forward in the psychic current, was extremely convincing. The
passage about what man has lost by his ignorance was beautiful and impassioned as delivered,
and it took a Curnow brain to frame it.
277
This attracted the attention of another editor (LIGHT February 5, 1927 p. 65.)
THE RETURN OF LESLIE CURNOW
SIR,-I am intensely interested in Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's report on “The Return of Leslie
Curnow,” and would like to add one matter which seems, to me, important.
Sir Arthur quotes the Control as saying, “Will you look into the notes which he, Curnow,
made for a little book on Mental Phenomena, and put them in order.” It may interest your readers
to know that some ten months ago I made arrangements with Mr. Curnow for the preparation and
publication of a series of articles on “The Mental Phenomena of Spiritualism,” with the intention
of making a companion book to one I recently published on “The Physical Phenomena of
Spiritualism,” by Mr: Curnow.
In the last letter I received from Mr. Curnow, written some ten days before his death, he told
me that he was busy with the preparation of this, and he had completed the notes for the first five
chapters. To the best of my knowledge and belief, no one was informed that Mr. Curnow was
engaged upon the work, and the point may be of interest in confirming the identity of the
communicator.
Yours, etc.,
ERNEST W. OATEN.
Manchester.
Another reader added a report to LIGHT February 26, 1927.
THE RETURN OF LESLIE CURNOW
Sir,-Circumstances have intervened to prevent my reading LIGHT for several weeks, and I
was much interested to read Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s article (p 39), as it confirms a prior
experience of mine here at Weston in the early morning of December 30th.
Mr. Curnow manifested to me then, and seemed to be very anxious about his books, drawing
my attention to several sets and series of volumes which he indicated as containing valuable
records. He seemed to wish them to be preserved and not to be dispersed.
I immediately sent you an account of this, which you have apparently overlooked. I should
like to put it on record as confirming Mr. Curnow’s return and also the anxiety he evidently feels
for the library which meant so much to him.
Yours, etc.,
CHARLES L. TWEEDALE
278
Fortunately a solution was found to the problem of the library. There was only a
brief report but it was enough to set minds at rest, in LIGHT June 18, 1927 p. 293.
THE LATE MR. LESLIE CURNOW’S LIBRARY.-We are asked to state that in disposing of
Mr. Curnow’s library, it was found necessary to divide it. One portion was purchased by the
Marylebone Spiritualist Association, and the other by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who is handing
over the books acquired by him to the Library of the Britten Memorial Institute in Manchester.
Duncan Gascoyne, curator of the Britten Museum kindly checked “Two Worlds”.
“The only reference I could find was in the Secretary’s Report of the Britten Memorial Fund
Annual General Meeting held at the Britton Memorial Library, 65 Bridge Street, Manchester on
Saturday June 9th 1928, which states:-
“The Secretary's report covered all the activities of the year, special mention being made of
the valuable gift from Sir Arthur Conan Doyle of half of the "Leslie Curnow" collection of
psychic books. He hoped that sanction from the Charity Commissioners would be received at an
early date to permit the Library being used until such time as we could establish a permanent
Library and Institute.”
The Britten Memorial Library collection now belongs to the SNU (although some
duplicates have been sold off over the years) and is housed at Stansted Hall. They
bear the bookplate which appears below.
LP & PJG
Photo courtesy of Garth Willey
279
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
MRS MILLER’S GIFT CD: Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. @ £9.99 +Pp £2.00.
‘Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-
9553420-8-0.
See Psypioneer 3.11: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K., postage,
elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’ By John
Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of Parapsychology
formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara & Ann Harrison @ £7.50 +
Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-9514534-6-
9. See Psypioneer book review: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £14.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism - a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this
is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’ Leslie
Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small booklet 8pp
£2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
‘Occultism and Spiritualism – a book review by, Stainton Moses originally published under the
pseudonym M.A. (Oxon). Published 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 10pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
All three Psychic Pioneer Publications £6.00 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
280
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
___________________________
281
