{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v5_n9_sep_2009.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V5 N9 Sep 2009","mylang":"de"}
282
Highlights of this issue:
Fox News – Paul J. Gaunt 283
Marriage of Miss Kate Fox – The Spiritualist 292
Henry Diedrich Jencken – Paul J. Gaunt 294
Alec Harris – Louie Harris 302
The Spiritual Telegraph – The Telegraph Papers 302
Turning the Tables in Liverpool - The Telegraph Papers 304
Books for sale 312
How to obtain this Journal by email 313
=========================================
NOW ONLINE: www.woodlandway.org
PSYPIONEER ARCHIVES
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
ACD’s Psychic Bookshop, Library & Museum
(& subsequent relocation to the Friendship Centre)
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 5, No 9: September 2009
283
Fox News
Mrs. Margaret Fox
1796 – 1865
Introductory Note by Psypioneer- In the reflections below the Editor calls attention to old and
new evidence - and unsolved problems - in the case of the Fox sisters.
1) The consistency of Mrs Fox
Psypioneer has previously published in full the first Hydesville report, “Mysterious Noises”
April 1848 by E. E. Lewis.1
This contains Mrs. Fox’s signed statement on the Hydesville
hauntings.
But Stanley Grimes,2
in his 1857 The Mysteries of Human Nature…3
provided me with a second
interview given by Mrs. Fox, on the 1st May, 1851: -
1
Vol. 1.12: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP12.pdf
2
See: - Volume 3.12 page 267 – “Origin of Modern Spiritualism”
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.12December07..pdf also Volume 5.4 page 119 – “James Stanley Grimes: – Fox
séance” http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09..pdf
3
“The Mysteries of Human Nature Explained by a New System of Nervous Physiology: to which is added A Review
of the Errors of Spiritualism………….” By J. Stanley Grimes, R.M. Wanzer 1857 pages 364 - 365
284
The following is Mrs. Fox’s account, as published by Mr. Ch. W. Elliott:
“ ‘Twas in December of the year 1847, that she moved from Rochester into this hired house.
Very soon, they were disturbed, after going to bed, by various noises, which, however, did not
attract much attention, as they supposed them to be made by the rats, which do sometimes, of
themselves, have strange doings. It is a pity, that the age and condition of the house are not stated
in either account. They were, however, disturbed, and, indeed, kept awake some, until they
began to suspect, that mischievous persons might be playing tricks. Examination, however, did
not show any such explanation, and they were obliged to content themselves with the rats, until,
after a space of nearly four months, when, on the last day of March, year 1848, they determined
to go to bed early, so as to get a good night’s rest, in spite of all noise; but this was not permitted.
The thought then struck Mrs. Fox, whose bed was in the same room with that of her two
daughters, Margaretta, aged fifteen, and Katy, aged twelve, that she would question the noise.
“ ‘Who makes the noise?’
“ ‘Is it made by any person living?’
“ ‘Is it made by any one dead ?’ Rap.
“ ‘If by an injured spirit?’ Rap.
“ ‘If injured by her or her family?’
“ ‘If by various other names?’
“ ‘Getting no further reply, she arose, somewhat excited, and called her husband, and some of
the neighbors, who were yet up.
“The two girls, so Mrs. Fox states, were not apparently as much excited as she was, but
entered, with some spirit, into the doings of the other spirit, one of them snapping her fingers,
and asking the spirit to do as they did, which it did do.
“One of the neighbors followed up the injured spirit, asking, when the injury was done? Five
raps, indicating, as they supposed, five years.
“What name did the injury?’ Rap, at the name mentioned of a man who lived there some five
years before.
“
Is the body here, then, in the cellar?’ A rap was heard, and they determined to dig, but
somehow learned that they must delay it some four months, and, of course, did so.
“Mrs. F. stated, that, upon digging at the time mentioned, her son, and two others, found
some pieces of bone, but whether or not those of a man, does not seem to have been ascertained.
The person accused by the spirit, she said, was much outraged, but took no very efficient steps to
remove so questionable an accusation. Mrs. Fox stated, that she left the house, and lived with
some friends, as the excitement for, or against them, was so considerable; but, strange to say, the
285
sounds followed her two girls, and, in the course of the summer, the alphabet was revealed to the
son, when alone, in the wonderful house.
“The son’s wife, also, for a time, she stated, was a ‘medium,’ for such is the title now used,
but has, somehow, lost the gift.”
___________________________
“Mr. Ch. W. Elliott”, refers to Charles Wyllys Elliott, and the above account was taken
originally from his book: - ‘Mysteries; or, Glimpses of the Supernatural Containing Accounts…’
published by Harper Brothers, New York, 1852 pages 117 - 119. This is now available as a free
download.4
[Incidentally, Elliott refers to the “Authorized Edition” of the Hydesville story as told by D. M.
Dewey in his “History of the strange sounds or rappings, Heard in Rochester and Western New
York, and usually called the Mysterious Noises...”5
. He makes no independent mention of the
Lewis report!]
Writers do not generally draw attention to this Mrs Fox interview, probably because it appears on
the surface to bring in no new material; however it is, if authentic, quite important to the
historian because it shows consistency in her story for the first three years; also it shows the early
consistency of her daughters’ ages,6
and it updates her first hand account with the events that
followed shortly after her Lewis statement.7
4
http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=RvCPTLehbdYC&ie=ISO-8859-1&output=html Also re-published by
BiblioLife, H.B., ISBN: 0559619960
5
Full Title: - “History of the strange sounds or rappings, heard in Rochester and western New-York, and usually
called the mysterious noises! Which are supposed by many to be communications from the spirit world, together
with all the explanation that can as yet be given of the matter.” Rochester, D.M. Dewey, 1850.
6
See recently Vol. 4. 9, page 186: - The Fox Sisters: Riddle of the records by Lis J. Warwood.
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.9September08..pdf
7
Robert Dale Owen, informs us in his first book “Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World”, that as early as
1859 the original Lewis report was then very scarce, see page 208
286
2) The ‘Embellishments’ by Leah Fox-Underhill
In 1885 Ann Leah Underhill,8
the eldest Fox sister published 9
“The Missing Link in Modern
Spiritualism”10
This publication is available as a free download.11
Chapter One of this book starts
with the 1848 Lewis report: - The following statements were made by the different persons whose
names are signed to them, and taken down in writing as they made them: after which they were
carefully read to them, and signed by them. They comprise but a small number of those who
heard these noises, or have been knowing to these transactions; but they are deemed sufficient to
satisfy the public mind in regard to their truthfulness.
The first statement is her mother’s “Certificate of Mrs. Margaret Fox, wife of John D.
Fox, the present occupant of the house”.
Leah claimed that the Lewis certificate of her mother’s testimony as published in her book is
authentic; so it remained since 1885 as a point of reference. No doubt due to the rarity of the
Lewis report, it was unchallenged as no comparison report was readily available, until the
original Lewis report was published in Psypioneer (April 2005).
However the reader of this statement published in full in Leah’s book, which is signed
April 11th
1848 by Margaret Fox, was not informed that the original statement of her
mother had been substantially changed. Many writers and Spiritualist organisations are
still, to-day, using the Ann Leah Underhill statement as to the early beginnings of Modern
Spiritualism at Hydesville, believing that it is the authentic version as produced by Mr. E.
E. Lewis in 1848.
Much of the wording has been changed and exaggerated by Leah throughout the Lewis
report extracts, although Mrs Fox’s question and answers session with the alleged spirit
do generally remain the same as the original.
Also, Leah’s account substantially sensationalised e.g. from a singular phenomena to a
collective. Mrs. Fox stated in the original Lewis report: it sounded if the chair moved on
the floor…. Leah’s version read: it sounded as if the furniture was moved….
Below is more of what Leah has added to Mrs. Fox’s original signed statement as
recorded in the Lewis report: -
My husband stationed himself outside of the door while I stood inside, and the knocks came on
the door between us. We heard footsteps in the pantry, and walking downstairs; we could not
rest, and I then concluded that the house must be haunted by some unhappy, restless spirit. I had
8
Leah, then Mrs. Fish, did not attend the Hydesville hauntings, and knew nothing of them until the whole
family had moved away from the house.
9
This was “Revised and arranged by a literary friend” person unknown.
10
Thomas R. Knox & Co, New York.
11
http://openlibrary.org/details/missinglinkinmod00underich
287
often heard of such things, but never witnessed anything of the kind that I could not account for
before.
“My youngest child (Cathie) said: “Mr Splitfoot, do as I do,’
….Then Cathie said, in her childish simplicity: ‘O mother, I know what it is: tomorrow is April-
fool day, and it’s somebody trying to fool us’
I then said: ‘If it was an injured spirit, make two raps,’ which were instantly made, causing the
house to tremble….
[We may also note that the two girls’ names have been added to the statement; they were not
named in the original report. In contrast, we find the ages of the two girls: ….The youngest
girl is about 12 years old; ….The other girl, who is in her 15th year…have been removed!
The three sisters continually lied about there ages, [The Fox Sisters: Riddle of the records,
by Lis J. Warwood.12
]
3) Some early errors.
There is sometimes confusion in references to various early Hydesville booklets. E.E. Lewis
1848, D.M. Dewey 1850, Henry D. Baron and Eliab W. Capron 1850. All had long titles but
collectively were often referred to in short as “Mysterious Noises”.
One further error was pointed out by Barbara Weisberg. Dewey in his 1850 booklet wrongly
stated that Maggie, not Kate, had originally accompanied Leah to Rochester, an assertion that
was often repeated. 13
Another error appeared in the Baron and Capron booklet 1850 14
on page 12,15
“.... At the time
these occurrences first took place in the family, there were living with the parents three
daughters, the youngest about twelve years of age.”
This error may have come into being as Mrs. Fox stated in her original Lewis statement: - “There
was four of our family, and sometimes five” - it is likely that Mrs. Fox was referring to Leah’s
daughter Lizzie.
Robert Dale Owen published in 1860 “Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World”, While
refering to the Hydesville events as recorded by Lewis, Capron etc, Owen also adds his own new
12
Vol. 4. 9, page 186: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.9September08..pdf
13
Talking to the Dead Harper SanFrancisco, 2004, page 95
14
1850 second edition, revised and enlarged, with additional proof
15
Kessinger Publishing, facsimile: - www.kessinger.net – See: - http://www.kessinger.net/searchresults-
orderthebook.php?ISBN=1432667696
288
narrative bringing in a different verbal version of the evening of March 31st
1848. It is at this
point for example we now have added to the story “Here old Splitfoot, do as I do”.16
It is noteworthy that Leah also republishes other statements in her book which were taken by
Lewis and included in his original 1848 report. Her father’s statement (April 11th
1848) remains
basically the same, but edited without notation. However in the important William Duesler
statement (April 12th
1848) Underhill slightly modifies or makes an error by involving Mr. Fox
more. In the questioning of the alleged peddler spirit she changes Mrs. to Mr. She again makes
no notation for the changes in Duesler’s statement. Finally, she curtails the statement,
explaining:-
NOTE.-The remainder of Mr. Duesler’s statement does not vary from that of
my mother and others, and, for want of room, is omitted.
I consider William Duesler’s statement important because we have here the first use of the
alphabet / code that would later (via David Fox) make the Fox daughters famous in Rochester;
contrary to what Leah states, it is not in any other statement taken. Duesler recalled: -
I then tried to ascertain the first letters of its name [the peddler], by calling,
over the different letters of the alphabet. I commenced with A, and asked if that
was the initial of its first name? there was no rapping. When I came to C, the
rapping was heard, and at no other letter in the alphabet. I then asked in the
same way, in regard to the initial of its sir-name; and when I asked if it was B?
the rapping commenced. We then tried all the other letters, but could get no
answer by the usual rapping. I then asked if we could find out the whole name
by reading over all the letters of the alphabet? and there was no rapping.
4) Charles B. Rosma, or Charles Rayn?
In my earlier enquiry “What is known of the Hydesville Peddler?”17
my intention was chiefly to
record how the peddler’s name came to be. It was early claimed by Capron and by later reports
that the peddler’s name was given to David Fox who called the alphabet at the Fox house in
Hydesville sometime during the summer (or later) of 1848.
Charles B. Rosma or Rosna18
is synonymous with the Hydesville hauntings, in fact he is the
central pivot of the whole story, and this name is considered, in most literature and major
Spiritualist organisations, as the first spirit to communicate through a code, resulting in the
beginnings of what became known as Modern Spiritualism.
16
See: - Vol. 5.6., page 187 - How Old Splitfoot Infiltrated Spiritualism, by Garth Willey: -
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
17
Volume 1.9 page 82: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP9.pdf
18
The name Rosna came in after Rosma. It may seem that the name Charles B Rosna came into being in 1870 by
Emma Hardinge in her Modern American Spiritualism pages 36 & 39. It would appear that this is possibly a spelling
/ publishers error, I would doubt that Hardinge would bring in another name for the peddler without some
explanation in contradicting Owen’s Rosma?
289
For example in the Spiritualists’ National Union (SNU) basic education course (B1) Introduction
to Spiritualism,.19
we find “………they realised that the noises were created by the spirit of a
man whose name was Charles B. Rosna.” 20
The Center for Spiritualist Studies in America21
supports Spiritualist scholars in research. We
find “………”The advent of Modern Spiritualism dates back to March 31, 1848 when the Spirit of
a deceased pedlar, Charles B. Rosna (aka Mr Splitfoot), communicated…”
Although the peddler’s name is regarded generally as a fact in Spiritualism there is no actual
evidence to substantiate this.22
His name was not communicated at the time of the Hydesville
hauntings as claimed by the various authors and by major Spiritualist organisations worldwide.
Spiritualists and their originations generally assert that Margaret (Maggie) and Catherine (Kate)
devised a code, but this is an error.
It may seem, as in the case of the term Old Splitfoot, that the name Charles B. Rosma also came
from Robert Dale Owen’s verbal exchanges with the Fox family whom he met at the house of
David Fox in August 1859. The earliest works that use the name Charles B. Rosma are
referenced directly or indirectly to Owen’s Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World 1860
rather than 1848! E.g., William Howitt,23
Epes Sargent,24
Fritz…25
But the earliest recorders of the Hydesville manifestations, included E.E. Lewis, 1848, D.M.
Dewey, 1850, Henry Baron and E. W. Capron 1850, Capron’s “Modern Spiritualism” 1855, and
Stanley Grimes 1857. All these early original reports did not give the name Charles B. Rosma
(or similar); in fact they did not give any name.26
19
http://www.snu.org.uk/Education/b1.htm
20
See reference note 18
21
http://www.centerforspiritualiststudies.org/spiritualism.htm - The Center for Spiritualist Studies (Spiritualist
Seminary) was established with the belief that: the science, philosophy and religion of Modern Spiritualism and the
National Spiritualist Association of Churches (NSAC) depend upon the continuity and transmission of principles
and beliefs to the future leadership, lay personnel and membership; and that the evolution and deepening of
Spiritualist insights to benefit humanity depend upon supporting Spiritualist scholars in research, publication and
seminars for the public.
22
Volume 1.9 page 92, Did the peddler exist?: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP9.pdf
23
Howitt’s account of Hydesville is based on Owen’s narrative: - The History of the Supernatural, William Howitt.
J. B. Lippincott & Co 1863.
24
Planchette the Despair of Science, Roberts Brothers Boston 1869 (author was anonymous)
25
Uses reference to Owen wholly, and refers the reader to Footfalls: Where are the Dead? Or Spiritualism
Explained, Simpkin, Marshal & Co., London 1875 (3rd
edition). Fritz’s real name was F (Fred). A. Binney, he was
an active committee member of the British National Association of Spiritualists (BNAS.)
26
Its interesting to also note that Leah did not give the peddler’s name either
290
5) Was Henry Spicer right after all?
In my original article27
I suggested that Capron, [Eliab Wilkinson] made an error while
reprinting28
an extract from William Duesler’s statement contained within the E.E. Lewis report.
In that statement (April 12th
1848) the initials of the communicator, the alleged peddler, were
given as C.B. Capron recorded these as C.R. I claimed this as perhaps the first historical error in
the Hydesville case!
Now, as previously stated, early authors did not give the peddler’s name, that is except Henry
Spicer and later works become confused with variations of Rosma (e.g. Rosna, as referred to in
the 2005 article, which was popularised by Robert Dale Owen.)
Henry Spicer’s peddler’s name has been overlooked by historians as recorded in his pre-Capron
book ‘Sights and Sounds: The Mystery of the Day’29
published in 1853: -
Noted Media
pages 59 – 60
Hence it appears that up to this time,30
sounds were only made when either
an affirmative reply was intended, or numbers were designated. Subsequently,
however, a more general attention having been awakened, and various means
canvassed, with a view to improve the mode of communication, a person
present conceived the idea of interrogating the sound-maker by means of the
alphabet. Accordingly, the spirit was asked whether, if the alphabet were
called over, it would rap for the letters composing its name. The reply was in
the affirmative, and the name of “Charles Rayn,” was spelled out.
A series of five raps, in quick succession, having been frequently noticed, it
was ascertained, by question and experiment, that this was a signal for the
alphabet.
Thus we arrive at the conclusion that, in this spirit-language, an
affirmative is conveyed by a single rap (though, perhaps, emphasized by
more), a negative by silence. Five raps demand the alphabet, and that may be
called over, vivâ voce, or else, in a printed form, laid upon a table, and the
finger, or a pencil, slowly passed along it when, on arriving at the required
letter, a rap is heard; the querist then recommences, until and sentences are
spelled out, upon the accuracy or intelligence displayed in which, depends, in a
great degree, the amount of faith popularly accorded to these manifestations.
27
Volume 1.9 page 82: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP9.pdf
28
Modern Spiritualism 1855
29
Sight and Sounds: The Mystery of the Day Comprising an Entire History of the America “Spirit” Manifestations
by Henry Spicer, Esq Thomas Bosworth, London 1853: -
30
Spicer is refering to Mrs. Fox’s statement (April 11th
1848)
291
It is quite astonishing that no serious attention has ever been given to this statement. I recall no
reference in any other work to the name Charles Rayn. Yet the name Rayn is so different to the
other names given, it cannot be put down to spelling error: -
What if Capron did not actually make an error as I previously suggested? And that the initials of
the communicator, the alleged peddler, were in fact C.R as stated by Capron? Perhaps Lewis had
misprinted the initials as C.B.; R & B could be very easily mistaken by writer or printer?
We are told that the peddler was never traced; but we have always assumed the name was, is or
similar to, Charles B. Rosma.
WHAT IF the Peddlers full name was in fact, that which was first recorded: - Charles Rayn?
Has anyone ever checked?
6) Modern books on Hydesville
Below I have looked at some recent books dealing in part with Hydesville. Today with so much
available information and original documentation on line, e.g., the Lewis report, Kessinger
Publishing Legacy Reprints,31
Google books, etc, authors can obtain almost the entire original
documentation of the Hydesville hauntings. However the authors below appear at times to have
copied from other works with the kind of errors we have discussed.
Robert S. Cox: - Body and Soul, University of Virginia Press. 2003.
David Fontana:32
- Is there an afterlife, O Books. 2005
Todd Jay Leonard, PH.D: - Talking to the Other Side…... Universe, Inc 2005
Stephen Chism: - The Afterlife of Leslie Stringfellow, Fullcourte Press. 2005
Maurice Leonard: - People from the Other side The Enigmatic Fox Sisters…... The History
Press 2008
Deborah Blum: - Ghost Hunters, Arrow Books. 2007
Although Arthur Conan Doyle’s “History of Spiritualism” is not a recent book, it is still regarded
by many as a standard text book; for example it is used by some of the authors cited above. It is
also used in the S.N.U.’s, education courses, but Doyle republished the Mrs. Margaret Fox
signed statement (April 11th
1848) as altered by Anne Leah in 1885 as previously detailed,
complete with Splitfoot as outlined by Garth Willey. Doyle informed the reader that he had been
31
http://www.kessinger.net
32
Fontana brings in another name for the Peddler: - Charles Rosa page 95
292
presented 33
with a facsimile of the original 1848 Lewis report, but apparently did not note that
Anne Leah had substantially altered this! These alterations need to be pointed out to the student,
but it is feared that some of the Course Tutors themselves are unaware of the important historical
inaccuracies.
Paul J. Gaunt.
___________________________
The Marriage of
Miss Kate Fox
~~~~~
Article taken from: - The Spiritualist Jan, 1st 1873 page 57: -
ON Saturday, December 14th, 1872, Miss Kate .
Fox, so well known as the medium through
whom modern ritual manifestations first began in America (about twenty years ago, when she
was a mere child), was married to Mr. Henry Diedrich Jencken, barrister-at-law, etc., etc., at the
old parish church, Saint Marylebone. The marriage ceremony was performed in the presence of a
few personal friends only; had the approach of the happy event been generally known
beforehand, there is no doubt that there would have been a very large attendance of Spiritualists
on the occasion.
The bride was dressed simply in white and lace, with a half wreath of white flowers in her
hair. Miss Ogden, her companion, who was richly dressed in black silk and point lace, carried
her veil; at the altar Dr. Bird, who gave away the bride; a few other intimate friends were
likewise present. The marriage service was conducted by the Rev. Mr. Braithwaite. At its
conclusion the bridal party drove to 45, York place. The guests present at the breakfast were
Miss Ogden, an American lady, who came to England in company with her intimate friend, Miss
Fox ; Dr Fred. Tomkins, an old and dear friend of Mr. Jencken, author of several works on
Roman Law, and a gentleman well known in America; Dr, George Bird, and Miss Bird, of 49,
Welbeck-street; Mr. Henry Cholmondeley-Pennell, the poet, and Mrs. Pennell; Mr. James
Wason, of Liverpool; and Mr. William H. Harrison.
In the course of the few speeches which were made at the breakfast, most heartfelt good
wishes for the happiness of Mr. and Mrs. Jencken were expressed. The spirits, also, took part in
the proceedings by means of loud raps emanating from various parts of the room; they also
33
Page 20 Vol. 1., The History of Spiritualism Published Psychic Press, London 1989 (orig 1926) still available at: -
www.psychicnewsbookshop.co.uk
293
manifested their presence by repeated movements of the breakfast table, which, despite of its
burden, including the huge wedding-cake, was tilted several times bodily off the ground.
There was nothing to mar the pleasure of the party, except a toast which was given by Mr.
Jencken, in which he alluded to some trials which his bride had passed through since her arrival
in England; a tinge of sadness then passed momentarily over her face. Messages of a private
nature, for Mr. Jencken, from Miss Fox’s departed mother, were spelt out. Mr. Harrison asked
whether the spirits could carry a message that morning to any friends in America. The raps said,
“Yes; to Maggie” (Miss Fox’s sister). He then asked them to say, “Your sister Katie was
married to-day in the presence of nine loving friends.” He asked if they could also give the
message to Mr. Mansfield in New York, as so many different spirits were able to communicate
through him. The spirits replied that they would try. This was at three o'clock; so that the time in
America was then about ten in the morning. Some jocular remarks were also made by the spirits,
and one of them of the name of Taylor signalled out- “Jencken is his own master no longer”-a
message created much merriment. The same spirit added, “Meet again on Tuesday week.”
L a t e r in the day Mr. and Mrs. Jencken left London for Tunbridge Wells. We are sure that
all Spiritualists will join with us in wishing them every happiness. Mr. Jencken is one of the few
professional gentlemen who years ago was not afraid to publish what he knew about Spiritual
phenomena at a time when the promulgation of such truths produced more ridicule and required
more moral courage than at present.
Mr and Mrs. Jencken returned to London yesterday, and will probably visit Paris soon.
~~~~~
[Henry and Kate Jencken bore two sons, Ferdinand Dietrich Lowenstein Jencken, born 19th
September 1873 at Brompton, England. Henry Jr was born at the home of Leah and Daniel
Underhill, in New York around, January 1875, in the absence of his father.]
294
Henry Diedrich Jencken
Barrister, Psychical Researcher and a Spiritualist
~~~~~
Mr. Henry Diedrich Jencken was born in Peckham, Surrey, England. Most independent
references give his birth year as 1828 and he died on 20th
November 1881, three days after
suffering a stroke. This date is according to the British journal, The Herald of Progress. 34
Some
web pages give the actual date of death as November 26th
. It is interesting to note Jencken’s
suggested age as researched in a previous Psypioneer article, The Fox Sisters: Riddle of the
records by Lis J. Warwood; that he was born around 1824.35
Jencken often witnessed and examined the mediumship of D.D. Home and reported some of his
investigations in Human Nature.36
It seems that Jencken also helped to support Home: - “Jencken
was an ardent spiritualist who had bankrolled Home during a period of financial trouble.”
(William Brock.)37
He also served on the committee for the London Dialectical Society whose
34
December 2nd
1881 page 264
35
Volume 4.9 page 194: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.9September08..pdf
36
Some reports are published in Nineteenth Century Miracles by Emma Hardinge Britten, William Britten,
Manchester December 1883 pages 144 – 146.
37
William Crookes (1832-1919) and the Commercialization of Science, by William Hodson Brock, Ashgate, 2008
page 196. See Psypioneer book reviews page 176: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.7July08..pdf also, Comments
by Barry Wiley author of Annie Fay, page 39: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09..pdf
295
report was published in 1871;38
he read a paper on the 13th
April 1869 as found within the 1873
(edition) report, in support of Spiritualism entitled “Spiritualism, its Phenomena, and the Laws
that Regulate its Origin”39
.Jencken was a founder member of the British National Association of
Spiritualists40
(BNAS) established 1873; Jencken was one of the first Vice-Presidents.
It seems that his business interests also included fellow Vice-President Edmund Dawson Rogers,
as recorded in the London Gazette December 3, 1880. The business address given for Rogers,
was 13 Whitefriars Street E.C. This was the temporary office for the Eclectic Publishing
Company, Limited see: - The Origins of Light41
In Fournier D’Albe’s – The Life of Sir William Crookes, D Appleton and Company New York,
D’Albe, on page 225 we find another link: -
“From details supplied by a member of the Crookes family, I learn that Mr.
Jencken, who married Kate Fox, was a former employee of Crookes’s and a
very honest man, who hoped to rescue Kate from her tendency towards
alcoholism”
Presumably if this statement is correct Crookes used Jencken in business avenues, or in his legal
capacity.
[I found all the above mentioned books, with the exception of Fournier D’Albe, available to
read online,42
see: - http://books.google.com/advanced_book_search]
We have previously published in Psypioneer an extract of Jencken addressing the National
Association of Spiritualists on November 22nd
1875.43
Below is a short address from a meeting
held at the Marylebone Society. In Psypioneer December 2006 we published The story of the
Marylebone Spiritualist Association 1872-1928;44
this society is still with us today.45
38
This was published by the society in 1871, and subsequently reprinted with additional material by James Burns
(London) in 1873. I have not seen the original 1871 so all references are directed to the later 1873 edition.
39
Pages 115 – 127 J. Burns, London
40
Use Psypioneer search engine for: - British National Association of Spiritualists - www.woodlandway.org
41
Volume 4.11 page 276: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.11November08..pdf
42
Limited preview, but all appropriate pages were accessible
43
Volume 3.4 page 77: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.4April07..pdf
44
Volume 2.12 page 260: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.12December06..pdf
45
Spiritualist Association of Great Britain (S.A.G.B.) see: - http://www.sagb.org.uk/
http://www.sagb.org.uk/ .
296
Below is taken from The Spiritualist, April, 1873 page 169.
SPIRITUALISM IN MARLEBONE
ON Monday, April 6th, at the quarterly meeting of the Marylebone
Society for the Investigation of Spiritualism, held at 90, Church-street,
Paddington, Mr. H. D. Jencken, H.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, presided, and
there was a large attendance of members and their friends.
The Chairman said that the report of the secretary set forth that the
society was formed a year ago, with only six members, the number of
whom had since increased to fifty-two. He was informed that the society
desired to increase the number of its members, and to raise money enough
to obtain the use of a hall, in which the researches might be prosecuted. It
was proposed that the members should follow the example of the
Dialectical Society, by forming themselves into committees, in order that
in their own homes they might learn more about the wonderful phenomena
of Spiritualism, and to what extent they were true. When he (Mr. Jencken)
began to investigate, he was not convinced at once; on the contrary, he
attended dozens of seances. and witnessed very many hard, stern facts, to
make sure that he was standing on firm ground, and that his spiritual
friends were not mad. It was hard to believe that spirits were near to us, or
to accept the facts before seeing many positive proofs, the result of hard
real investigation, such as was necessary in making all advances in
scientific knowledge, and of all the sciences Spiritualism, with its mighty
array of magnificent phenomena, was eminently worthy of examination.
(Applause.)
The members would first have to obtain and observe the phenomena,
then to discuss them, thereby gradually clearing their brains of cobwebs,
as he had had to do himself at the outset. The treasurer's report was not
prepared, but every member probably knew its leading features; if not,
they could pass it without understanding anything of its contents, as was
customary at the majority of general meetings, where far greater interests
were involved. (Laughter.) They might as well, therefore, go at once to the
subject of music.
A library in connection with the society would be formed soon. (Ap-
plause.)
_______________
297
Henry Diedrich Jencken the Barrister:-
Louisa and George Lowe, the vicar of a small Devonshire parish of Upottery, were married in
1842. In the summer of 1869 Louisa and her sister visited the London professional medium Mrs.
Mary Marshall where her sister received a message from their dead brother. Moved by this
experience Louisa later discovered that she was able to produce passive writing: 46
-
Therefore I tried to develop in myself the passive-writing power, and after
some weeks of daily, short, solitary seances, unintelligible strokes gave way
to letters, and passive writing recorded the names of all I loved best in
Spirit-land, with many sweet words of affection and comfort. Soon, very
soon, after this I became a fully-developed writing medium, of unusual
power I believe; for we - that is, Passive Writing and I - dialogued together
for hours at a time. I was very lonely, and this intercourse so fascinated me
that for several days I did little else than enjoy it.
In November 1872, Henry Jencken, led the legal team representing Mrs. Louisa Lowe who had
been incarcerated in a lunatic asylum. The legal team had to show that the Lunacy
Commissioners kept Louisa Lowe in unlawful imprisonment on the grounds of insanity,
knowing her to be sane. A difficult task no doubt, for a Spiritualist plaintiff and Spiritualist
barrister in 1872!
The Louisa Lowe story is told in The Darkened Room, by Alex Owen.47
There is limited preview
to this book at Google books.48
Owen mentions Jencken just once: “Mr Henry Jencken, who was
to marry the American medium, Kate Fox, mishandled the case and committed the dreadful error
of trying to turn it into a spiritualist showpiece.”49
This statement is without any comment or
detail of his errors of mishandling the case!
46
Page 171, The Darkened Room, by Alex Owen Virago Press Limited, 1989. Originally taken from: - Louisa
Lowe, No.3, ‘How an old Woman Obtained Passive Writing and the Outcome Thereof, James Burns London 1873
47
The Darkened Room, by Alex Owen Virago Press Limited, 1989
48
Chapter 7 pages 168 – 201: -
http://books.google.com/books?id=vlwIUA4Re24C&printsec=frontcover&dq=inauthor:alex+inauthor:owen&lr=&a
s_drrb_is=q&as_minm_is=0&as_miny_is=&as_maxm_is=0&as_maxy_is=&as_brr=0&ei=lk3HSun1O5CCyQTdto
SiBA&ie=ISO-8859-1&output=html
49
The Darkened Room page 196
298
Below is taken from The Spiritualist December 1, 1872 pages 22 -23: -
LAW INTELLIGENCE
COURT OF QUEEN’S BENCH, Nov. 22.
(Sittings in Banco, before the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE, and Justices BLACKBURN and
MELLOR.)
EX PARTE LOUIS LOWE v. THE COMMISSIONERS OF LUNACYCRIMINAL
INFORMATION.
Mr. H. D. Jencken (with whom was Mr. J. Ignatius Williams), moved on behalf of Mrs.
Louisa Lowe, late of Upottery Vicarage, Devon, but now residing at Bedford-place, Russell--
square, for a rule calling on the five gentlemen who hold the office of Lunacy Commissioners, to
show cause why a criminal information should not issue against them, on the grounds set forth in
Mrs. Lowe’s affidavit. The lady on whose behalf he applied was the wife of the Rev. Geo. Lowe,
vicar of Upottery, and she entertained opinions which were held by some of those who were
known as Spiritualists. Shortly stated, the grounds on which the criminal information was asked
for, was that the Commissioners refused to release Mrs. Lowe from a lunatic asylum, and, on the
contrary, kept her incarcerated because of what might be termed her religious opinions.
The Lord Chief Justice- Was that all? Religious opinions, however extravagant they might
be, are no ground for imprisoning those who hold them as lunatics.
Mr. Jencken would show, from the affidavit of Mrs. Lowe, that such was the reason of the
detention of which he complained. He contended that theological belief, however grotesque, was
no ground of insanity.
Mr. Justice Blackburn-True; no one would think that religious belief, however absurd, should
be taken as proof of insanity; but it is an element with others which ought to be, or might well be,
considered in coming to a conclusion whether that particular person is or is not insane.
Mr. Jencken said that what was complained of was that a great wrong had been done solely
on the ground of spiritual belief.
The Lord Chief Justice- A mistake in judgment is no ground for a criminal information.
Mr. Jencken- There is more than a mistake in judgment here - there was gross neglect.
The Lord Chief Justice- You must show that the Commissioners kept this lady in unlawful
imprisonment on the ground of her insanity, well knowing that she was not insane. What
evidence was there that they had done so? If it could be shown that the Commissioners acted
299
maliciously, and that against their better knowledge they detained her in custody-
, the Court
would doubtless interfere.
Mr. Jencken submitted that the Commissioners ought to have instituted full inquiry, and that
gross negligence would be evidence of malice.
The Lord Chief Justice- Let us hear the facts.
Mr. Jencken said the facts were set forth in a very long affidavit made by Mrs. Lowe, the
principal portions of which he would refer to. She stated that in September, 1870, she was
incarcerated in the asylum for lunatics called Brislington House, near Bristol, on an order for the
reception of female patients, signed by her husband, and on certificates of Dr. Shapter, and of
Mr. Kempe, surgeon, both of Exeter. She was married to the Rev. George Lowe in September,
1842, and had several children, of whom six are now living. For many years she lived with her
husband, but owing to grave dissensions she was at different times compelled to leave home,
almost invariably accompanied by some of her children, with whose care and education she was
entrusted by her husband. In September, 1870, she had serious differences with him, and went to
reside at Exeter, where he visited her, and apologised for his conduct, and requested her to
return, which she declined to do. She then set forth the visit of the doctor and surgeon, and her
removal to the asylum.
On the 1st of October, 1870, she wrote to Dr. Fox, the proprietor of the establishment, a letter,
in which she said, “Until it shall please God to raise me up a deliverer, I hope obediently and
quietly to follow the rules of your house.... The pacing about under a servant’s orders is, of
course, a great trial to me, but would be more endurable if, in the intervals, I might sit in my own
room and seek peace and strength where alone they are to be found, in communion with my own
heart and my God. As to spirit writing, no amount of suffering shall ever make me deny my
convictions that God is at this time visiting His people, and if He wishes to promulgate truths
through a weak, imperfect woman, who shall gainsay Him? but this is certainly not the place for
intellectual excitement of any kind, and I last night burned every scrap here, and do not intend
again cultivating the gift of mediumship while I am in your house.” She stated in her affidavit
that while staying at the asylum her sufferings were greatly intensified by the fact that she was
constantly placed in contact with incurable maniacs, one of whom repeatedly threatened to take
her life. In November she was removed to an outlying villa called Heath House, and in February
to Dr. Hy. Maudsley’s Asylum, Lawn House, Hanwell.
In January, 1871, the asylum was visited by the Gloucestershire magistrates and visiting
physician, Dr. Budd, by whom she was informed that she might expect speedy liberation. Mr.
Lutridge visited her in the following March, and asked her but one question, and that in reference
to Spiritualism- “Do you still believe your hand was guided?” and she replied, “I do.” “He then
said he should prefer leaving the question to colleagues better acquainted with metaphysics than
himself; and to this remark I replied that it was cruel and monstrous I should be incarcerated on
account of my metaphysical or religious opinions, and that no account should be taken of the
perfect and uninterrupted propriety of my conduct through the six months of my incarceration;
and I asked whether it would not be possible for me to have a jury; to which he replied, ‘It is
300
possible, but very undesirable. We always advise ladies under these circumstances to keep quiet.’
” (Laughter.)
On several occasions subsequently she wrote to the Commissioners complaining of her
detention, and requesting inquiry by a jury or otherwise, but without effect. In a letter dated May,
1872, she said that early in January, on occasion of her sister desiring her removal to Hanwell,
Dr. Fox said he would not certify her insane for that purpose; and the magistrates again saw her
at that period, and professed themselves satisfied that she was fit for immediate discharge. She
added, “Dr. Maudsley told my family there was no just cause for detention. I entreat that I may
be allowed a jury, should you still shrink from setting me free. The income I bring my husband
of £1,000 to £1,200 a year, entitles me, I conceive, to the expense.” She represented to Dr.
Maudsley the impropriety of detaining her, as the commissioners must have known that she was
not insane; to which he replied, “Oh, do you think they would let out a firebrand like
yourself?”(Laughter.)
In the following June she was again visited by two of the commissioners, Messrs. Wilkes and
Lutridge. Mr. Wilkes asked her whether all Spiritualists acted as she had done; to which she
replied, “I believe so, for it is generally admitted that all mediums are deceived and do foolish
things at first at the bidding of passive writing.” Mr. Wilkes said, “If the writing told you, would
you separate from Mr. Lowe? “ She replied, “I certainly would not on that ground.” . . . “I told
him they must, in judging my Spiritualism, bear in mind I had all my life been called a religious
person, and considered approach to God the main end of life.” Mr. Lutridge said, “Yes, believe
the Bible and all that sort of thing,” or words to that effect, and they then retired. In a letter to the
Commissioners, dated the 13th of June, 1871, she stated she had seen Mr. Lowe, who cast the
whole responsibility of her detention on the Commissioners, without whose sanction Dr.
Maudsley could not act. She added, “I am utterly at a loss to know why you condemn me. All
you have been told of my antecedents is either utterly false or grossly exaggerated. The
attempted suicide, on which you lay so much stress, occurred, in the first place, sixteen years
ago, and was, moreover, merely the carrying out of principles I was known to hold, and which I
openly advocated, viz., that under certain circumstances suicide was right. I have changed my
mind on this head within the last two years, but, at any rate, it seems strange that I should be
imprisoned now for things done many years ago. As to my belief that some unknown motive
force is occasionally brought to bear on material objects, by intelligence or intelligences
extraneous to men, I share it with thousands in all countries. Certainly, an indiscriminate
compliance with all commands so given would be insanity, but I deny having ever complied with
any that were not wise or perfectly trivial. I think I told you that some months ago, finding my
sister apprehensive on this subject, I pledged myself to her not to act on so-called spirit writing
for a considerable time after my liberation, without her knowledge and approval. “She again re-
quested an opportunity of proving to the world the triviality of the grounds on which she was
incarcerated, and the perfect rationality of her conduct and conversation from first to last. Several
other letters were written by her to the Commissioners, to some of which no reply was made.
In September, 1871, two of the Commissioners, Messrs. Forster and Cleaton, “interviewed”
her in private. She then handed to them “a bundle of papers containing dialogues with passive
writing,” which she had written while incarcerated at the Lawn. On the same day she wrote to
the Commissioners a letter, in which she said, “As you have my medium writings for inspection,
301
I think it fair to express unequivocally my conviction that no so-called spirit writings have any
weight or value any more than human communications. You will observe my addresses are to the
great Father of All, and may therefore gather I consider the replies as certainly divine. I emphati-
cally deny that I ever but once acted on medium communications to the possible detriment of any
one, and that I most bitterly regretted at the time. Granting the reality of medium writing, I see
not how I am responsible for what is written.”
On the 2nd of October she again wrote: “You did on Thursday last pronounce me mad on
account of inconsistency of mind in thinking Mr. Lowe, though naturally a good and noble
character, by my own admission, to be now detaining me in a madhouse for his own ends. Will
you, in the presence of my solicitor, interrogate two eminent practitioners as to whether they did
not so advise me in 1868 and 1870 as to account for the apparent inconsistency of my views? On
the 3rd of June Mr. Winces condemned me because all Spiritualists are mad, de facto,
irrespective of their conduct in life, and now I am indefinitely re-consigned to this hideous doom,
this lingering death in life, this moral torture of incarceration, on pretexts that would not become
a child. As to Spiritualism, I have once again expressed to you the extreme moderation of my
views, and put on record months ago that the only authority of medium writing lies in its
agreement with conscience, thus putting it exactly on a par with human counsel.”
The Lord Chief Justice: Up to this moment we do not see a shadow of ground for supposing
that the Commissioners did not fairly and honestly exercise their judgment. They may have been
mistaken. As to that we are not called upon to form an opinion. But where is there a shadow; of
proof of any intentional misconduct?
Mr. Jencken: If the Commissioners so negligently–
The Lord Chief Justice: We cannot grant a criminal information on that ground. There are
other forms of redress for negligence.
Mr. Justice Mellor: I understand that she is now released from the asylum.
Mr. Jencken said she was. She had first to sign a paper undertaking to reside for three months
at a specified place, and under the control of a keeper. It was not until the last day of March in
this year that she was finally liberated from the keeper’s control.
After some further argument, The Court refused the rule.
~~~~~
[Louisa Lowe for many years worked towards Lunacy Law Reform. She also became an active
member of the British National Association of Spiritualists serving on the General Purposes
Committee, but in June 1879 she resigned from the BNAS.]
Paul J. Gaunt
_______________
302
Alec Harris
NEW BOOK
~~~~~~~~
A new biography of physical medium Alec Harris has recently been published by Saturday Night
Press (Tom and Ann Harrison) Alec Harris – The full story of his remarkable physical
mediumship, by Louie Harris. An abridged version had been previously published “They Walked
Among Us”50
Psychic Press Ltd, 1980 containing 121 pages.
Now after 30 years in the waiting the complete manuscript of the full story is available. It is
nicely illustrated and contains 253 pages. The preface is by Professor David Fontana with further
contributions from former SNU president Eric Hatton; Harris’ son Bradley; and Christopher
Watkins whose parents formed part of Harris’ circle in which he himself sat as a youth. The book
also contains the original Introduction from the 1980 abridged version by Rev. George May.
Psypioneer will be commenting on the book in a later issue.
Available at £9.99 plus pp from Psychic News online Bookshop.51
_______________
The Spiritual Telegraph
THE TELEGRAPH PAPERS
~~~~~~~~
Samuel Byron Brittan (1815c–1883) and his publishing partner Charles Partridge edited and
published numerous newspapers/journals, and periodicals etc, in the early days of American
Spiritualism.52
S. B. Brittan also contributed to the earliest records of British Spiritualism in The
Spiritual Telegraph. We owe much to Brittan and Partridge for preserving our early history prior
to the British establishing their own literature.
“The Spiritual Telegraph was most widely disseminated during its six years of existence, from
1852 to 1857, and was the most popular spiritualist newspaper during the first decade of the
50
http://www.mediums-spiritguides.com/Mediums/Alex%20Harris.pdf
51
http://www.psychicnewsbookshop.co.uk/product/652
52
Partridge & Brittan's Spiritual Library (1855): - http://www.spiritwritings.com/PartridgeBrittonCatalog1855.htm
303
movement. When the other main spiritualist newspaper of the era, The Banner of Light, began in
Boston in 1860,53
Brittan was its regional New York editor.” (Buescher)54
In 1853 Brittan and Partridge introduced “The TELEGRAPH PAPERS” which was edited by S.
B. Brittan: -
TO THE READER
~~~~~~~~~
THE PUBLISHERS, believing that the preservation of a large portion of the
contents of the SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH, in a more durable and convenient
form, is highly important, as affording a reliable record of the interesting
phenomena which characterize the present age, have compiled this volume, and
they will hereafter make a similar compilation Quarterly, which will be found to
embrace all the more interesting articles which appear in the columns of their
weekly journal.
The present publication is the first of the proposed series, and contains the
selections from May to August, 1853. The Editor's Review of Rev. Charles
Beecher’s Report respecting the Spiritual Manifestations, which appeared in
chapters, in successive numbers of the TELEGRAPH, will be found together in
the last part of the book.
Each succeeding volume of the TELEGRAPH PAPERS, like the present
one, will be furnished with an index, which will render it convenient as a book
of reference; and it is confidently believed that the whole will constitute a series
of interesting miscellaneous volumes, which may merit a place in the library of
every Spiritualist.
PARTRIDGE & BRITTAN
300 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, 1853.
_______________
Psypioneer has previously published some of these early reports e.g., Mr. William Hayden’s
letters giving first hand accounts of this wife Maria’s physical mediumship; she is credited with
bringing the American-style Spiritualism to England in 1852, attracting the likes of Robert
Owen, see: - Mrs. Hayden’s visit to England in 1852-3.55
53
The Banner actually began in 1857, not 1860 as stated. See Luther Colby and the Banner, page 108: -
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09..pdf
54
The Other Side of Salvation, by John B. Buescher, Skinner House Books, Boston 2004
55
See Volume 2.10 page 212: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.10October06.pdf
304
[Previously I published the above reference (Mrs. Hayden’s visit to England in 1852-3) “……
‘Spiritual Telegraph’ was founded by S.B. Brittan and ran from 1852 until it merged in 1860 into
the ‘Herald of Progress’ founded by Andrew Jackson Davis”. In the above Buescher Quote: -
“The Spiritual Telegraph ……. six years of existence, from 1852 to 1857 …” we note a
discrepancy I will return to this in the next issue.]
Below is published another letter from The Telegraph Papers, probably one of the very first
detailed accounts of Table Turning in England. This account is concluded with remarks by
Samuel Byron Brittan.56
PJG
_______________
TURNING THE TABLES IN
LIVERPOOL
WE are indebted to some friend in England, probably to W. R. Hayden, Esq., for the
Liverpool Albion of the 6th inst., in which we find an interesting account of the proceedings of a
great meeting convened in that city, for the purpose of experiments in table moving. The power
that turns the tables, and also threatens to “turn the world upside down,” probably with a view of
having it right side up, was there, and managed things very skillfully, so as to extend the interest
and to puzzle the philosophers.
The extracts from the Paris correspondence of the Literary Gazette and Times will, we are
sure, be regarded with interest by all our American readers, and, accordingly, we transfer the
entire article to our columns:
FROM THE ALBION
The Manchester Guardian, of Saturday, says, “On Thursday evening a conversazione, having
for its object the arriving at some safe conclusion concerning ‘table moving’ and its causes, was
held in the library-hall of the Athenaeum, which had been engaged by a committee of gentlemen
for that purpose. The audience, which was numerous, was accommodated with seats around the
room, the central portion being occupied by seven tables, of various forms and sizes, all of which
were, during the evening, experimented upon.
“The Rev. H. H. Jones, F.R.A.S., was called to the chair, and in opening the proceedings said,
that it appeared to him that the phenomenon of table turning must necessarily be the result either
of collusion, illusion, or of the action of some mysterious and hitherto almost unknown and
56
Vol. 1. Partridge & Brittan 800 Broadway, New York. 1853, pages 280-291
305
unrecognized force. That it was not the result of collusion was, he thought, proved by the number
of intelligent and respectable persons who were ready to vouch for the reality of the facts. That it
might be the result of illusion or self-delusion on the part of the experimenters, was just possible,
but, perhaps, not very probable. It was just possible that there might be such an adhesion be-
tween the fingers of the experimenters and the table, such a power of friction as, gradually
accumulating, should be sufficient to overcome the inertia of the matter contained in the table,
and cause it to move. Some might think that there could not be this amount of friction or
adhesiveness without the experimenters being conscious of it. He was not so sure of that. When
persons had held their fingers in a certain position for a considerable length of time, their fingers
became comparatively benumbed, and it was just possible that they might unconsciously
exercise such an amount of force as might move the table.
“Then came the third and last question: supposing the phenomenon not to be the result of
either of these causes, could it be that it was produced by the action of some mysterious and
unknown force, hitherto unrecognized? If so, we must suppose that this force issued from the
hands and fingers of the experimenters, and that it flowed to the right or left in obedience to their
will. Mr. W. G. Ginty moved the appointment of a committee, to have the direction of the
experiments, and report upon them. The motion was seconded and unanimously agreed to. The
chairman then invited ladies and gentlemen who were willing to experiment upon tables to take
their places and in a few minutes all the tables but one were surrounded by experimenters,
including persons of various ages, and both sexes.
“The experiments commenced at eight o’clock. The first table which moved was a round one,
about three feet in diameter, standing upon three legs, without castors, and having a leather top.
At this table four ladies took their places, and in five minutes it began to turn rapidly, the ladies
running round with it. After several stoppages, for which the experimenters could not account,
the table moved round so rapidly that several of the ladies appeared to be getting giddy, and two
of them became so much alarmed that they discontinued the experiment. These ladies had simply
placed their hands upon the table, without touching those of each other. After this experiment,
the chairman suggested that it should be repeated, the ladies having tissue paper placed between
their hands and the table to prevent the effects of friction. This was tried for fourteen minutes,
with three ladies only (the other two being too much alarmed to take part), and failed. The other
two ladies were then induced to join the circle, and in three minutes the table moved. Upon
examination, it was found that the tissue paper had been wetted by perspiration, and had adhered
to the table. It had, therefore, failed to counteract the probable effects of friction and proved
nothing.
“The second table which moved was a large and heavy round one, of polished wood, about
four feet six inches in diameter, and weighing about one hundred pounds, having a pillar and
three claws, to each of which there was a castor. Round it sat eight gentlemen, who formed the
circle in the usual manner, touching each other's little fingers, but not bringing the thumbs of
their own hands into contact. At twenty-five minutes past eight o’clock (when the experiment
had been conducted for twenty-five minutes), this table began to move slowly from right to left;
and, with some stoppages, it performed about two revolutions in that direction. It then stopped,
and after waiting some minutes, the experimenters, who had previously willed that it should
move from right to left, willed that it should move in a contrary direction. In a minute or two
306
motion recommenced, and the table moved so rapidly in the direction intended, that the
gentlemen who had previously risen from their seats, were obliged to run round with it; and its
revolutions did not cease until one person, feeling giddy, withdrew his hands and broke the
circle. It was observed that this table turned upon one of the three claws as an axis; this claw,
however, did not remain perfectly stationary, and the circumference of the table described a
series of eccentric circles.
“After the performance of these experiments, Dr. Braid said there had been some most
unexceptionable experiments. They had seen two tables turn, and his conviction was that the
motion arose from what Dr. Carpenter called the ideo-motor power. The mind being
concentrated for a length of time upon an idea, it at last began to act upon the muscular system.
This was not a voluntary act, and might even be in opposition to volition. He was satisfied, so
far as he had seen, that this was the true solution of the matter; that the ladies and gentlemen
were not conscious that they exercised any effort, and that the effect arose from this unconscious
muscular action. In order to test whether or not the motion was caused by electricity, he
suggested that a wire should be laid upon the tables, and that instead of touching the table the
experimenters should hold this wire. If the motion arose from electricity, it would take place
under these circumstances; if it was the result of muscular action the effect of that action would
be on the wire, and not on the table. The experiment was accordingly tried. A piece of thin wire
was laid around the ladies’ table; it was twisted into a loop between each of the operators, and
was then held by the ladies who had previously operated so successfully. The hands of the ladies
did not touch the table.
“They maintained their positions for half an hour without success, and then abandoned the
attempt. They then placed their fingers upon the table, and in about a minute it turned rapidly.
The third table which moved was a similar one to that which was moved by the ladies. Five
persons sat at it, and at thirty-seven minutes after eight it turned rapidly from right to left. These
persons had formed the circle in the ordinary manner, with only the little fingers touching. When
the table began to move, some of the bystanders thought that some of the experimenters were
exercising pressure, and therefore suggested that they should cross their hands, as it was thought
that in this position they would be unable to exercise any force upon the table. This was done,
and the table afterward moved rapidly from right to left, and left to right.
“The last table to turn was a square one of mahogany, about six feet long by four wide,
standing upon four legs. At eight o’clock eight gentlemen and two ladies sat down to this table,
and continued the experiment without success until thirty-five minutes past nine, when they
discontinued it. Seven gentlemen and five ladies, including three of those who had previously
been so successful, then sat down, and in about a quarter of an hour they moved the table a short
distance. The circle was then broken by one of the party, and the table stopped. At nine o’clock,
the gentlemen who had previously moved the large round table formed the circle as before, but
without allowing their fingers to touch the table. They tried this experiment for ten minutes, but
without success.
“The chairman suggested that, in order to prevent the effects of friction, a table should be
smeared with olive oil, upon which the experimenters should place their fingers. In accordance
with this suggestion, a belt of oil about five inches wide from the edge was made upon the round
307
tables. Six gentlemen then sat down, and in about twenty minutes the table moved. The large
round table, which had been the second to move, was then smeared with oil upon the wooden
rim, and the same eight gentlemen, who had previously experimented, again sat down to it. In
this instance they formed a circle as before, but only the tips of their fingers touched the table.
They began their experiment at a quarter past nine, and, at one minute before ten o’clock, the
table made part of a revolution from right to left. It afterward moved in different directions,
according to the will of the gentlemen experimenting upon it, up to a quarter-past ten o’clock,
when they desisted. In the course of this experiment these gentlemen were much disturbed by the
pressure of the audience upon them; and by other proceedings. Whenever their attention was thus
distracted the table stopped. The chairman said that no importance could be attached to the result
of this experiment, as he saw the thumb of one of the operators upon the edge of the table. All
the gentlemen engaged in the experiment denied that they had placed their thumbs in this
position; and a bystander assured us that, though the thumb of one gentleman was very near the
edge of the table, yet it did not actually touch it. This gentleman was in a better position for
observing than the chairman, who was on the platform, and he was paying great attention to the
experiment. Several requests were made to the chairman to point out the gentleman whose thumb
was upon the edge of the table, but the chairman only replied that he had no doubt the gentlemen
believed that they were acting fairly, and that he had not thought of charging them with doing
otherwise.
“We have hitherto spoken only of successful experiments, but there were three tables which
were in vain attempted to be turned. One of these was a mahogany Pembroke table, and the party
who experimented upon it consisted of five gentlemen. Another table (resembling that with
which the ladies were so successful), which was at first unoccupied, was afterward taken
possession of by a party of seven gentlemen. In forming the circle, they not only touched the
little fingers of each other, but brought their own thumbs into contact. The result of this was that
their hands were placed in a circle very near the centre of the table top, and not, as in the other
cases, round its circumference. These gentlemen continued their experiment for some time, but
the table did not move. The third unsuccessful experiment was with a small round table, at which
five gentlemen remained seated for an hour and thirty-five minutes without producing any effect.
In the top of this table there was a crack, and some of the experimenters seemed to think that this
had prevented the success of the attempt. The chairman, upon being appealed to, said that he did
not imagine that it would have any effect.
“The chairman, before leaving the chair, said that he had come into that room without any
prejudice; but that, from what he had seen and heard, he believed that the phenomena resulted
entirely from muscular action, by the power of friction. He could not for a moment believe in the
emanation of any occult principle in Nature, which could produce such decided effect upon a
mass of brute matter as had that night been manifested. Dr. Braid, in moving a vote of thanks to
the chairman, said, that if we considered the reciprocal action of the mind upon matter, we had a
key to the whole mystery. It was a certain law that the mind, being concentrated for any length of
time upon any part of the body, changed the physical action of that part. If there was an idea that
the table should move in a given direction, that idea would, without a conscious effort of
volition, without the person believing that he was exercising any effort at all, produce the effect.
The vote of thanks was unanimously adopted, and the proceedings terminated about half-past
ten, having lasted nearly three hours.
308
“We have not space in which to notice any of the statements we heard as to the sensations of
the experimenters, but may state generally, that, as they were described to us, they resembled
those before detailed by correspondents. We could not discover that in any case the table moved
toward the north, or any other definite point; and we doubt whether a lecture-room, occupied by
an eager and inquisitive audience, is the best place for attempting to discover the laws or causes,
whatever they may be, connected with the much-talked of and tried ‘table moving.’ After each
successful experiment, a member of the committee, or the chairman, inquired of each of the
operators whether he or she had abstained from muscular action upon the table, and in every
instance a decided assurance was given in the affirmative.”
The Paris correspondent of the Literary Gazette, writing on this subject, says, “The great
table-moving question, which has excited such an extraordinary degree of interest in this city as
to be the universal topic of conversation for a period much longer than the nine days’ life
generally enjoyed by a wonder, has at length forced itself on the attention of the Academy of
Sciences. Among the vast mass of letters and reports detailing experiments, which have been
sent to the Academy, the presiding authorities selected one by M. Seguin, a distinguished savant,
to be read at its last public sitting. The statements made in this document were of the most
extraordinary kind, one of them being, that a table when acted on was made to move to the notes
of a piano. M. Arago was so astounded at them, and, it must be added, so incredulous with
respect to them, that, before he would allow the paper to be read, he sent to M. Seguin, to entreat
him to reflect seriously on the responsibility he would incur, in the presence of the scientific
world, in letting them go forth to the public under the sanction of his name. But M. Seguin, who,
from being a stubborn skeptic, has become a devout believer in the tables, answered that he was
ready to indorse a good deal more than he had said, and so his paper was read. M. Arago, after
the reading, intimated, brief but somewhat vague terms, that his belief is, that the movement of
the tables is caused by muscular action. And he proceeded to say, ‘What is most extraordinary
and most difficult to explain in the phenomenon is, the circumstance that, with impulsions, so to
speak, infinitely small, imprinted on the table with the fingers, we in time can communicate to it
active movements (des mouvemens considérables).’ This, however, he alleged, is no novelty, as
‘Mr. Elliot, a watchmaker, relates in the Philosophical Transactions of some years ago, that two
clocks, having been hung to a wall, a foot apart, one of which was going, the other standing, the
latter after a while began going too, being set in motion by the imperceptible vibrations
transmitted from the other through the solid body between them-and it even continued going
after the first one was stopped.’ Thus, then, with such authority as that of M. Arago, and, as you
announced last week, of Sir David Brewster also, the phenomenon of table-turning must, for
those who seek for a scientific elucidation, be considered as, for the present, explained; and the
animal magnetism, or human electricity, which was at first assumed to be the motive power of
the rotation, must, by them, be now set down as non-existent, or at least non-acting.
“Our French friends, not content with the large share they possess in the great discoveries and
productions of human intelligence, lay claim to every thing:-to hear them talk, they had
discovered every thing, originated every thing, given perfection to every thing. They assert,
among other things, that it was they who enriched the universe with steam navigation, who first
planned railways and locomotives, who first used lighting with gas. They are now laying claim
to the invention of the electric telegraph. A Dr. Napoleon Henry, of Metz, has written to the
newspapers to say that he is the inventor, as in 1836 he proposed to the French government to
309
establish lines of such telegraphs, but that his plan was considered impracticable, and was
rejected. An advocate, named Amyot, has also written to the journals, to say that three years
before he proposed the establishment of electric telegraphs to the government, and to the English
ambassador in Paris, but that both refused, the latter even declining to forward any notice of it to
London. No doubt, now that the question has been started, we shall see a host of other inventors
spring up; and after they have made a certain degree of clamor, the Academy of Sciences will
probably order a committee to examine into their rival claims.’ That committee will make a
report, in which it will, we may be certain, award ‘the glory’ of the discovery to one of them, or
to some other Frenchman; and thenceforward and forever it will be a given article of national
belief that it was la belle France, and la belle France alone, who enriched the world with that
astonishing invention. This is precisely what was done with respect to the discovery of steam
navigation, and the plan is too convenient for national vanity not to be followed on all occasions.
Now, if it be right to render to Caesar what belongs to Caesar, Caesar must be justified in
looking a little after his own, and in this case he must do so at once to avoid being completely
despoiled. Who the Caesar is I pretend not to say: it may be France with Lavoisier, who, as
Arthur Young, if I remember rightly, tells us, was able, in 1787, or thereabout, to correspond
with his wife in another room; or it may be America with Franklin; or Germany with Rieser; or
Spain with Dr. Salva; or England with more than one. But certainly it was not modern France
with the Henries and the Amyots; for Sœmmering and Œrsted in Germany, Schilling in Russia,
and Wheatstone in England, undoubtedly preceded them.”
Apostate, writing to the Times on the same subject says: “England, France, and America are
mad about turning tables. There are more believers than skeptics. I am, unfortunately, an
apostate. I was a believer, and this was the manner of my falling away: I tried, with others of my
own family, of whose honesty of purpose I could not doubt, and we turned hats, tables on
castors, and tables without castors, and, among the latter, one very obstinate oak table, with a
solid heavy stem, on a tripod; all these tables turned round on the carpet, toppled over, or glided
along, and even out of the room, in a most miraculous manner. I trusted to my own eyes and
believed. I asked for an explanation, and was told it was either electricity, or magnetism, or a
little of both. This was not satisfactory, so I endeavored to find out a less mysterious and more
intelligible explanation. I placed three persons round a table which five or six others had turned
by the alleged electric process, and directed them to give a slight pressure, with the points of
their fingers to the left; they did so, and the table turned as it had done before. This experiment
was tried on all the tables previously operated on, varying the number of persons according to
the size of the table; where eight or ten persons had electrified the mahogany, five or six would
produce precisely the same effects by the slightest possible united pressure in the same direction,
so slight, indeed, as to be quite imperceptible to the bystanders, and admitted even by the firmest
believers who were engaged in the experiment, to be literally ‘next to nothing.’ My unscientific
theory was, however, to be upset at once. Gold chains were linked together and placed round a
table, the fingers touched the chain only, and not the table, and it turned. I was challenged to test
my theory by the same ordeal; we did so, and the table turned precisely as it had done under the
manipulation of the magnetizers. This proves that the pressure by the fingers must have been
very slight, other-wise the chain would have turned, and not the table. I have certainly not been
fortunate enough to see tables dance polkas, or to go up and down stairs with the hands placed on
the surface; but my solution of the ordinary ‘Jim Crow’ gyrations is simply this, that when eight
or ten persons are placed round a table, and all told to wish it to turn in the same direction, and
310
when they have sat in that constrained position for twenty minutes, their fingers begin to tingle,
just as a cramped position of the feet will cause ‘pins and needles’ in the toes. They begin to feel
tired, and are told to wish more powerfully; then, if at any time five or six out of the ten or
twelve happen to second their wishes by the slightest tendency of pressure in the required
direction, the table begins to move, all are required to go round with it the momentum is
increased, and the feat is accomplished. Each person is satisfied that the pressure of his ten
fingers did not, and could not, move the table, and he is right; but multiply ten by six and it
becomes sixty. It is the last straw which breaks the camel’s back. But I am told that one person
of strong powers of volition can alter the course of the table: this is so according to my theory.
Assume sixty to be the moving power, and deduct ten, or, rather, if the man of strong volition has
also strong fingers, deduct twenty, and the table is stopped. If it should happen, as is often the
case, that the table is recusant, and objects to be made a spinning-top of, the reason, I submit, is,
that there are not a sufficient number of fingers at one and the same moment pressed in the same
direction. This is the great disadvantage of the electric theory; mine never fails. I am, however,
still open to conviction, and if any scientific person will condescend to explain how electricity or
magnetism operates to produce the described effects, all I can say is, ‘Candidus imperti, si non
his utere mecum.’ ”
To Apostate's letter a Proselyte replies: “The letter of your correspondent Apostate will no
doubt be regarded by every rational person as another very satisfactory proof of the existence of
a somewhat new and mysterious agent hitherto not generally known. He says, and very truly, that
when a large table is touched by the fingers of some half dozen persons, and pressed very
slightly in a particular direction, it will revolve, and then draws a most erroneous conclusion that
it is done by a mechanical effort, which, however, it is scarcely necessary to say, would be
wholly inadequate for such a purpose, because, by his own statement, such pressure was so slight
as to be scarcely perceptible. Besides, the whole of your correspondent’s argument is based on
an assumption which is not essential to the success of the experiment, for although I have no
doubt the table will move by the will of the parties when it is so pressed, it will also do so
equally as well without. Neither is it always necessary to wait twenty minutes, which is implied
might induce an involuntary pressure, for though it is true that on one occasion I have had to wait
for even a longer time than this, yet on another I, with three others, succeeded in moving a large
mahogany dining-table in less than half a minute, and with such force as to frighten some of the
operators, and it nearly knocked one of them down. It was the first attempt of all the parties
excepting myself, and, as might be expected, they were all more or less skeptical, and placed
their hands lightly on the table by my directions. I may add that I have discovered that it is not
necessary to make use of a table, or, indeed, of any thing except the bodies of the
experimentalists; for if the hands be placed in contact, and in the same position as when a hat is
employed, they will soon be found to move, the parties being obliged to follow to maintain their
position.”
REMARKS.- The exhibition in the Athenaeum, at Liverpool, did not, it is true, produce a
unanimity of opinion respecting the cause of the phenomena witnessed, but the results were quite
sufficient to rebuke a whole army of scribblers in this country, who pander to popular prejudice
and libel the innocent, all for the love of gain, and because they seek
311
“The bubble reputation.”
In the facts and details of the meeting, as given in the English journals, we find nothing to
warrant the hypothesis which ascribes the motions of the tables to muscular action, either
consciously or unconsciously applied. “The first table which moved” was surrounded by four
ladies, and the motion commenced in “five minutes.” The second table, which “weighed about
one hundred pounds,” moved in “twenty-five minutes.” Also, seven gent1emen were seated at a
table resembling the one which was moved by four ladies; the sitting was protracted, but no
motion occurred. Again, we are told that the “the third unsuccessful experiment was with a small
round table, at which five gentlemen remained seated for one hour and thirty-five minutes,
without producing any effect.” But why was there no motion in either of the last-mentioned
cases? Is it because a dozen gentlemen have less muscular power than four ladies? If four ladies,
without any conscious effort, could, almost in a moment, move a table with such velocity as to
make them giddy, why did five gentlemen, sitting around “a small round table,” for an hour and,
a half, totally fail? These are questions to be answered by those who incline to the muscular
hypothesis. Moreover, those who were successful in the experiment testified that they did not
exert any such force, while those who did not engage in the experiments thought otherwise.
Persons of ordinary candor and intelligence will readily decide which had the better opportunity
of knowing.
A great point was gained at the meeting in Liverpool. The results demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the civilized world that the phenomena of table moving is not a mere trick. And
where now are the arrogant scribes attached to the American newspaper press, who, from the
beginning, have charged the poor mediums with “deliberate imposture?” When will they repent
of their folly and wickedness, and make honorable reparation? Especially, when will such papers
as the Express, Courier and Inquirer, Times, Herald, and other journals, secular and religious,
cease their vituperation, and retract the slanders they have published? So long as public
journalists merely echo the stereotyped opinions of their fathers, and use their influence to foster
the vulgar prejudices of the ignorant, they are wholly unfit for the highly responsible duty of
molding public sentiment. Unfortunately the reputation of the American press is materially
injured by an indefinite number of persons of this class. The ideas of such men are contracted by
false education, rather than enlarged by free and natural discipline and liberal culture. For this
reason they are but poorly qualified to entertain enlightened and rational views of their own.
Superficial minds always require the authority of great names to sanctify the truth; and now that
the attention of the whole civilized world is secured-the philosophers of all Europe, the nobility
and royalty, being ready to listen-they may possibly conclude that it is not so contemptible as to
be altogether beneath their notice.
This is an encouraging phase in the present aspect of affairs for no one fact is more evident
than that several hundred public journals in the United States stand in great need of a common-
sense opinion of the general subject, and we shall be happy to learn that they have obtained one,
though it be imported.
S. B. B.
_______________
312
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
MRS MILLER’S GIFT CD: Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. @ £9.99 +Pp £2.00.
‘Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-
9553420-8-0. See Psypioneer 3.11: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K., postage,
elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’ By John
Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of Parapsychology
formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara & Ann Harrison @ £7.50 +
Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-9514534-6-
9. See Psypioneer book review: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £14.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism - a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this
is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’ Leslie
Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small booklet 8pp
£2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
‘Occultism and Spiritualism – a book review by, Stainton Moses originally published under the
pseudonym M.A. (Oxon). Published 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 10pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
All three Psychic Pioneer Publications £6.00 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
313
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
___________________________
