{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v5_n12_dec_2009.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V5 N12 Dec 2009","mylang":"de"}
Archived by
Garth Willey
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
EST 2004
Volume 5, No 12: December 2009
Highlights of this issue:
How Ray Taylor changed our lives – Leslie Price 382
Robert James Lees and the Revd Thomas Ashcroft – Stephen Butt 384
Spirits of the Mines – Emma Hardinge Britten 396
The dangers of an SPR study day, and of a CPS library book – Leslie Price 402
A study in survival Conan Doyle solves the final problem – Book Review 403
The Great Shark case (an analysis of the original documents) - Louis Fergusson 405
Leslie’s seasonal Quiz 410
Please support Psypioneer 411
Books for sale 412
How to obtain this Journal by email 413
=========================================
NOW ONLINE: www.woodlandway.org
PSYPIONEER ARCHIVES
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
ACD’s Psychic Bookshop, Library & Museum
(& subsequent relocation to the Friendship Centre)
381
HOW RAY TAYLOR CHANGED
OUR LIVES
[Ray Taylor, editor of Psychic World, passed on 20 December.]
In autumn 1969, after I had left the CPS library, Ray arranged me for me to go down to Stansted
and spend several days sorting out the library of Arthur Findlay, on behalf of Dr Winning. Much
of this was in the room there known as the Library, and it included psychic and non-psychic
books. I did a basic alphabetical arrangement of the psychic books, with a separate collection of
Findlay translations (these are seldom mentioned but must have been influential in their time.)
He also had some early volumes of PN. At the back of Stansted Hall was a room containing the
library of R.J. Lees. It was here that I first read the diary reference to Jack to Ripper, as well old
press cuttings about the People’s League in Peckham, and litigation in Ilfracombe.
As I stood on a ladder in the library, I chatted with an American visitor. Later I received a
postcard from him, written over the North Pole, and was invited to assist him in his literary
research as a sort of London-based factotum. He was George Meek, chiefly remembered today
for Spiricom, but at that time, mainly just starting with healing research, after professional
engineering work in refrigeration. Through George, I met a number of pioneer healing
researchers in the early 1970s, especially at the NFSH healing committee.
I returned to Stansted library in 1971 during Ray’s annual “London Week”—this was an
alarming experience for the audience, as I leaned back on a fragile table while discoursing about
the books.
When Ray took over Psychic World from Simon Forsyth, the monthly newspaper played a
significant role as an alternative voice, sometimes printing stories that for one reason or another,
did not appear in PN. A disturbing example arose after Peggy Mason, a Two Worlds columnist,
became a Sai Baba devotee, and PN printed splash page stories about SB’s phenomena and how
he had put Jesus in his place. I wrote to Peggy about Tal Brooke’s experiences at the hands of
SB, but she brushed these aside- had not Brooke since become a Christian? But later her
successors Faye and David Bailey accepted the truth of the charges and issued “The Findings”.
The resultant exposure was reported all over the world in national newspapers. PN however did
not warn its readers, some of whom had children, in any way - the nearest allusion being when a
columnist noted that SB had allegedly received a bad press. In contrast, Ray Taylor printed a
warning note.
Ray carried several series by me. The first, “Theosophical Comment” emphasised the
continuities between research into Theosophical and Spiritualist pioneers, like Mrs Britten.
“Unorthodox View” was a play upon words. There was Christian orthodoxy (like the 39 articles
of the C of E) but a Spiritualist orthodoxy had also developed, especially around Findlay’s
synthesis.
382
Ray received some criticism in the movement for printing these pieces, as I was not an approved
person in various quarters. Eventually, his pages became hospitable to me only at long intervals
(except to letters), while PN was then being largely written by a handful of people. The solution -
in 2004 — was to relaunch the Psypioneer project as a monthly newsletter, which would
promptly report historical findings in detail. Paul Gaunt, who was also getting a limited response
from PW and PN, happily climbed aboard.
Ray remained a friendly voice on the telephone, quite recently after the passing of Don
Galloway. Now he has gone where there is no monthly deadline, and no more puzzling
behaviour by fellow denizens of the psychic world. We extend our sympathy to his daughter
Candy, who will continue his work.
LP.
__________________
383
ROBERT JAMES LEES AND THE
REVD THOMAS ASHCROFT
By Stephen Butt
[Note by Psypioneer: - Stephen Butt will be recalled by Psypioneer readers for his discovery of
the background of Georgiana Eagle, clairvoyant to Queen Victoria. 1
Through his web site, 2
he
has already published much valuable archival material, including the Chicago article mentioned
below. This new paper by Stephen Butt is followed by reprints of the two items about Lees
referred to in Stephen’s paper from LIGHT 1886.]
On 12 August 1948, Eva Lees, the eldest daughter of the medium Robert James Lees, wrote a
statement ‘to whom it may concern.’ The date is significant in that it reveals Eva’s thoughts
about her respected father who had died in January 1931. He had been born on 12 August 1849,
and it is evident that his devoted daughter was already considering then how she would mark the
centenary of his birth.
In her statement, Eva refers to a letter which her father had written to ‘LIGHT’, published in that
journal on 22 May 1886. Eva’s statement is in the form of an outline biography of her father:
“(He) was a born clairvoyant and at the age of fourteen became a trance medium.
In 1868, known as a boy medium in Birmingham, he was given a shock by two
women mediums that he came out of the movement altogether, and would have
nothing whatever to do with Spiritualism.”
A subsequent sentence of Eva’s statement has been crossed out:
1
Georgina Eagle – Queen Victoria’s Clairvoyant Revealed by Stephen Butt. Psypioneer Volume 1, No. 15/16 pages
174-196: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/15-16.PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
2
Robert James Lees; - www.rjlees.co.uk
384
“He was told that things were “arranged” when he was in a deep trance.”
Eva continued:
“From then for some years he studied all forms of tricks and conjuring and while
living in Manchester, 1875-1878, went through Lancashire with the Revd Thomas
Ashcroft who was an opponent of Spiritualism.
My father on every platform always made a statement that, if and when he had
reason by sheer weight of evidence to change his mind, he would return to the
same platform and say why he had changed his mind. This he did in the course of
Truth and when Ashcroft attacked him, my father gave a letter to LIGHT.”
The editor of LIGHT made the most of the Lees letter and of his decision to return to his
previous beliefs. As a result, in its issue of 15 May 1886, the journal had promised dramatic
discourse in the next edition:
“Our country friends – especially those amongst whom Mr Ashcroft has pushed
himself – will do well to widely circulate that number of “LIGHT”. We will
supply the next number of “LIGHT”, which will also be a serviceable one for
general circulation amongst our country friends, on special terms. Applications
for these special parcels must reach us not later than Wednesday morning’s post.”
The scene was set. All those ‘country friends’ – spiritualists in the north of England – were being
ordered to prepare for battle. [The full text of this note in LIGHT follows this article.]
As promised, Lees’ statement appeared in LIGHT on 22 May 1886. It was a well-crafted and
reasoned article, and Lees drew back from openly criticising his opponent in the north.
Remarkably, it was an article that later formed the basis of a spurious claim about its author and
Jack the Ripper, which was published eight years later by a journalist in Chicago.3
The fall-out
would ruin Lees’ health and his work as a philanthropist, and was possibly the cause of a bitter
family rift.
The Revd Thomas Ashcroft was a preacher in the United Methodist Church, in Lancashire. He
began his preaching service in 1863 and died in 1910. He is listed as one of eighteen people who
purchased a one pound brick for the building of the Mere Brow Methodist Church which opened
in November 1902. Mere Brow is a hamlet which lies near the villages of Tarleton and Rufford,
between Ormskirk and Preston in the west of the county.
Ashcroft is listed as a minister at the Brunswick Church in Bury in 1871, and there are
newspaper reports of his evangelistic work in Chorley and Blackburn. Thomas Pointon Dale in
his history of Brunswick church, published in 1896, describes Ashcroft as:
3
The full Chicago text is available on Stephen Butt’s website at:
http://www.rjlees.co.uk/chicago.htm
385
“A man of more than average ability, richly endowed with popular gifts, and
possessed with an ambition to become a useful minister of Jesus Christ. Mr.
Ashcroft was well received in the circuit, and soon became celebrated both as an
able preacher and popular lecturer. His sermons are highly spoken of, and his
ministry was fruitful in conversions.”
Pointon Dale also provides some clues as to Ashcroft’s character and personality:
“…of strong individuality, young, enterprising, and aggressive. It is well-known
that during a portion of that time there were differences of opinion, and that
matters did not run quite smoothly in the circuit. Doubtless the blame did not lie
wholly with the ministers, and both proved themselves sufficiently strong in the
sympathies of the members to break, for the first time, the tenacious Methodistic
rule of a three years’ Itinerancy, and to secure an invitation to continue their
labours for four successive years.”
Lees, just 26 years of age when he first apparently joined up with Ashcroft was also an
impetuous young man and, according to his own later writings, a man who could easily be led by
a stronger personality. Together, Lees and Ashcroft would have been a formidable team; as
antagonists, they were well-matched.
Lees and his young family had left Lancashire in 1878, forsaking the security of a job with the
expanding Manchester Guardian for a post as advertising manager of a new popular journal in
London which folded after just a few issues. As a result of losing his job and of then, rather
naively, accepting the ‘help’ of a money lender, Lees became bankrupt.
As a consequence, he and his wife and children suffered much hardship. In April 1885 their
daughter Viola died at just eighteen months of Bronchitis and convulsions. One month later, their
youngest child, Marmion, died of Marasmus, a form of malnutrition. The boy was just eight
months old.
But the article in LIGHT related not to these personal and family crises, but to an event which
took place in November 1884 when, as a result of a lively debate on the subject of mediumship,
Lees agreed to take part in a series of séances with two American gentlemen whom he referred to
as ‘Mr S and ‘Mr B’:
“Of the first three séances I have nothing particular to record … At the fourth the
name of Samuel B was given…. In answer to further inquiries, Mr B was told to
re-open the workings of a certain mine which he had closed ….”
Lees explains in the article that later correspondence from the States confirmed the accuracy of
the spirit’s claims and information. It was this and further seemingly irrevocable proofs which
led Lees to reaffirm his belief in Spiritualism.
LIGHT in its editorial suggested that their article would finally silence Ashcroft. The editor’s
closing comments were chosen to sting:
386
“The matter, now that Mr Ashcroft’s bubble has been pricked, may, we think, be
allowed to drop. We advise him before he again enters the field of opposition to
Spiritualism to seek the truth in the spirit of truth, to pray earnestly over the
matter. To read his Bible carefully with singleness of purpose, and there to learn
to distinguish “between things that differ”.”
The young man who had loyally accompanied Ashcroft across Lancashire, demonstrating that all
the claims of the Spiritualist mediums could be matched by a conjuror’s trickery, had turned
against him. Nevertheless, the zealous Ashcroft continued his in anti-spiritualist campaigning,
but a later report from Colne indicates that there was a renewed interested in Spiritualism in the
very areas where Ashcroft had campaigned:
“The effects of the recent visit of Mr. Ashcroft are manifest in the determination
of the local friends to form a society (the meetings hitherto have been managed by
Burnley workers), and everywhere there is a strong desire to obtain information
and investigate. Mr. Ashcroft retired discredited. The people were disgusted with
his tactics, and would have broken his lantern but for the generous interference of
Mr. Lees…”
Nevertheless, if the article in LIGHT failed to end the antagonism between Lees and Ashcroft, it
is certain that the details within it had a much longer life and effect. Less than two years after its
publication, journalists reporting on the series of murders in the Whitechapel area of London,
gave the perpetrator a name, Jack the Ripper. Seven years after that ‘autumn of terror’, Lees’
name was to be forever associated with those events because of the publication of an article in a
Chicago newspaper which drew heavily on the 1886 article in LIGHT.
The article was published by the Chicago Sunday Times-Herald on 28th April, 1895. At the heart
of this story is the claim that over a number of years, Lees was seized by visions of the Ripper
and his murders. They each came true.
Lees, it was said, went abroad and briefly was not troubled by such visions. He returned to
London and when on an omnibus with his wife, saw a man get on the bus at Notting Hill. Lees
told his wife that he believed the man to be the Ripper. Lees’ wife laughed at him. When the man
alighted at Marble Arch, Lees followed him, informing a constable en route about his fears. The
constable laughed at Lees. The next day, and after another vision, Lees went to Scotland Yard.
Lees remembered a postcard from his vision, and the police received one that morning which
read as Lees stated. They then took him seriously.
Eventually, after more murders, Lees was able to lead the police to the house of the Ripper. The
Ripper was a doctor who lived in a fashionable house in London. The Ripper was placed in an
asylum under the name Thomas Mason No.124 in place of a pauper, and a mock funeral held. It
claims that a Dr Howard recounted the tale whilst drunk to a man who then informed the
newspaper.
387
The newspaper report describes a séance in detail involving Lees and two American visitors to
London. It is obvious that the Chicago journalist is drawing upon Lees’ own words as published
in LIGHT in 1886, not the least the re-appearance of Mr S and Mr B:
“Mr Lees returned to England where he made the acquaintance of Roland B.
Shaw, a mining stockbroker, of New York and Fred C. Beckwith, of Broadhead,
Wisconsin who was then the financial promoter of an American syndicate in
London.
These three gentlemen were dining one day in the Criterion when Mr Lees turned
to his two companions suddenly and exclaimed: ‘Great God! Jack the Ripper has
committed another murder.’ Mr Shaw looked at his watch and found it was eleven
minutes to eight. At ten minutes past eight a policeman discovered the body of a
woman in Crown court, in the Whitechapel district, with her throat cut from ear to
ear and her body bearing all the marks of the Ripper’s handiwork. Mr Lees and
his companions at once went to Scotland Yard. The news of the murder had not
yet reached the inspector, but while Mr Lees was relating his story, a telegram
arrived giving full details of the outrage.”
Many other details in the Chicago article indicate that the writer or writers had access to a source
of personal information about Lees. American journalists would have seen the daily wires from
London about the Ripper Murders and were as informed about them as their counterparts in
London, but specific family details about Lees and of his work, and his address in the London
suburbs also found their way into the spurious article.
In 1895, Lees was busy with his latest enterprise, the People’s League which supported many
hundreds of needy families in the Peckham area of London. A ‘glorious mission’ was how Lees
described it in his diary, and with its many self-help Socialist-based policies and projects, it was
having a real effect on the people of that area. Within a few months of the publication of the
Chicago article in several English newspapers, he had suffered a breakdown. Lees left London
for the peace and relative anonymity of the fishing port of St Ives in Cornwall, taking his large
family with him. The People’s League closed its doors, never to re-open. Lees ever eschewed
the limelight and a role of leadership.
Who was the source in Chicago of so much personal family information about Lees? How did a
copy of LIGHT published in 1886 reach the Chicago journalists?
Present research identifies two possible candidates. One is the newspaper editor and fellow-
spiritualist W.T. Stead, and the other, more likely candidate, is Lees’ eldest son, Norman Albert
Lees.
Stead and Lees had corresponded regularly for a number of years on spiritualist matters. Both
were journalists working in London, and both held strong non-conformist Christian philanthropic
views. Stead visited Chicago in 1891, and visited the Whitechapel Club – the society of Chicago
journalists who had a specific interest in the Whitechapel Murders.
388
The young Norman Lees, who had been born in Birmingham in 1873, was styling himself as a
‘crime reporter’. During the height of the Ripper murders, he would have been a teenager in
London. He too had been in Chicago in 1891/2 with his younger brother Douglas. A letter from
Stead to Dr Albert Shaw, the editor of the American edition of ‘The Review of Reviews’ in New
York dated 27 July 1894 confirms that Norman had been with Stead in Chicago:
“Norman Lees, the young English Police Reporter, who helped me in my Chicago
Detective work, is leaving by the ‘Etruria’ with his brother for New York. He is
returning to Chicago. He came round to ask me whether I thought you could get
him a free pass to Chicago from New York. I told him that I doubted it in as much
as we had to pay for our own tickets when we were in America, but that I would
mention it to you.”
Hence we know that Norman was in Chicago only months before the notorious article was
published.
There is evidence in the Lees family papers of a rift between Norman and his father. He settled
in New York where, after being involved in a society scandal, and, allegedly, setting fire to his
family home, he was for some time incarcerated in an institution for the insane. Newspaper
reports record that he attended his mother’s funeral in Ilfracombe, Devon in 1912, but soon after
he settled in Australia, enrolling in the Australian army in 1916 – giving his status as ‘single’ -
and served in the Medical Corp.
Norman died on 13 October 1942 at the Salvation Army Home in Bellevue Street, St Peters,
Sydney NSW, with ‘no known next of kin’. He had abandoned his family, or they had
abandoned him. Such was the legacy of his father’s article of 1886 in LIGHT.
REFERENCES
Information on Ashcroft as a Methodist preacher:
From the Methodism Archives, John Rylands University Library, University of Manchester
Details of Ashcroft and Mere Brow Methodist Church:
Online citation—“Methodism in Mere Brow” (author not credited), from: —
http://www.merebrow.com/chapel/centenary.html - Part of the Lancashire Villages web portal at: —
http://www.lancashirevillages.com
Details of Ashcroft and the Brunswick Church, Bury:
Thomas Pointon Dale, THE HISTORY OF BRUNSWICK CHURCH, BURY, Simpkin,
Marshall, Hamilton, Kent & Co Ltd, London, 1896.
Original documents of the Lees family (Diary of Robert James Lees and draft letter of Eva
Lees):
The Record Office for Leicester, Leicestershire and Rutland ROLLR) catalogued as DE 4481/1
and following.
Stephen Butt
389
Below is the first of the two LIGHT 4
articles referred to: -
THE REV. T. ASHCROFT AND
SPIRITUALISM
The Rev. T. Ashcroft, of Chorley, has, at various times, sought notoriety by his
lectures in opposition to Spiritualism. These utterances have no more distinguishing
characteristic than the utter want of knowledge which they display with regard to the
subject. Mr. Ashcroft has issued what he calls a “challenge.” As our readers are well
aware, we are utterly opposed to this method of settling any question, much less such an
intricate and serious problem as Spiritualism. Mr. Ashcroft makes two challenges; the
first is to the amount of £1,000. It is not needful for us to enter into particulars; we
simply advise our country friends who are being troubled by his pretensions, to ask
Ashcroft whether he will consent, in the event of the challenge being accepted, to
deposit the money with some bank, or with some gentleman of repute. Until he consents
to do this, we advise our friends to have nothing whatever to do with the matter.
In another challenge, Mr. Ashcroft offers “to forfeit £5 each night that he fails to
produce, through the assistance of a non-Spiritualist, superior phenomena to those
obtained by Spiritualists.” Our readers will see the utterly clap-trap and shallow nature
of these so called challenges, and the whole matter would be utterly beneath contempt
were it not for the sequel.
The facts are these. Mr. Ashcroft has pursued this business of exposer for many
years. During a portion of that period he was dependent upon the services of a
gentleman who possessed considerable “mediumistic” powers, but who for a long
period could not obtain any evidence that disembodied spirits had anything to do with
the phenomena obtained through his mediumship. This gentleman’s name is Mr. James
Lees, and, honestly enough, he associated himself with the Rev. T. Ashcroft to expose
what he thought were unwarrantable pretensions on the part of Spiritualists. Now for
the sequel. This gentleman has continued his investigations, and the result which we a
few hours since learnt from his own lips is, that he now confesses himself a Spiritualist,
and informs us that he has received abundant evidence to convince him that a portion at
least of the phenomena are produced by the agencies to which Spiritualists mainly
attribute these phenomena. His position is somewhat akin to our own. He by no means
receives as the work of disembodied spiritual intelligences all the phenomena which
occur. He recognise the fact that we are spirits here and now, and that there is no hard
and fast line to be drawn between the action of mind embodied and mind
disembodied—both possess the same powers, though in the majority of cases they are
latent in the former.
4
LIGHT Saturday May 15th
1886.
390
Mr. Lees has promised us a statement for publication in next week’s “LIGHT,” in
which he will briefly record the circumstances which have led to an advance in his
position with regard to the matter, and our country friends—especially those amongst
whom Mr. Ashcroft has pushed himself—will do well to widely circulate that number of
“LIGHT.” We will supply the next number of “LIGHT,” which will also be a
serviceable one for general circulation amongst our country friends, on special terms.
Application for those special parcels must reach us not later than Wednesday morning
post.
__________________
This theme was duly continued in the next issue: - 5
SPIRITUALISM AND ITS
OPPONENTS
Last week (p226) we alluded to some challenges to Spiritualists made by the Rev. T.
Ashcroft, of Chorley, and, while expressing our total disapproval of making Spiritualism the
subject of betting in any form or shape, we announced that some information in our possession
would enable our country friends effectually to deal with the pretensions of the reverend
gentleman in question. In one of these, “challenges,” the Rev. T. Ashcroft offers “to forfeit £5
each night that he fails to produce, through the assistance of a non-Spiritualist, superior
phenomena to those obtained by Spiritualists.” We pointed out the utterly clap-trap and shallow
nature of these so-called challenges, and then went on to narrate that the gentleman upon whom
Mr. Ashcroft had been dependent for the production of these “non-Spiritualistic” phenomena has
been a medium himself throughout, who had, however, at that time been unable to satisfy
himself that the phenomena which occurred in his presence were attributable to the agency of
disembodied spirits.
Since then Mr. Lees, the gentleman referred to, has continued his investigations, and it is with
profound pleasure that we now fulfil our promise of last week and communicate to our readers
his statement with reference to the causes which have led to a change of opinion on his part. Mr.
Lees’ statement is explicit and speaks for itself. It completely cuts the ground from underneath
Mr. Ashcroft’s present position, and renders nugatory the latter’s “challenges,” inasmuch as the
“non-Spiritualistic friend” there spoken of is Mr. Lees himself, who, it will be seen, has, by the
sheer force of evidence, been convinced of the untenability of his former position. Thus the work
goes on; those who come to scoff ultimately remain to pray. One by one truth-seeking inquirers,
5
LIGHT Saturday, May 22nd
1886.
391
alike on the scientific as on the religious side, are confounded in their scepticism. It is no
exaggeration to say that no one who has ever given Spiritualism a careful and patient
investigation, being actuated in the inquiry for truth by the spirit of truth, has ever failed, sooner
or later, to recognise the innate truth and beneficial influence of what, in its many varied and
complex phases, is generically called Spiritualism.
Mr. Lees strikes a true and potent keynote in the concluding portion of his statement. With
him, in his pleading for more spirituality in connection with Spiritualism, we are in thorough
accord. We have always, to the best of our ability, insisted upon the necessity of approaching
Spiritualism from another and a higher side than that of mere phenomenalism. Scientific
attainments are something, and intellectual capacities are not to be despised, in an inquiry into
the things of spirit; they are, without doubt, valuable aids to the investigator, but they are not all.
Beyond science, beyond intellect, there is something which, if not possessed by the seeker, will
prove an insuperable barrier in the path. It is not altogether sincerity of purpose, or an earnest
desire to know the truth, though it partakes of both of these. What, then, is it? Let us answer in
the words of the Christ—“Except ye become as little children, ye cannot enter the Kingdom of
Heaven.”
We now append Mr. Lees’ statement: –
“One person has already asked me a question, which I have no doubt others will repeat: What
necessity is there to make any statement at all? Let me explain at once. I am not by any means
vain enough to suppose that I am of sufficient importance to throw any great light upon the
complex question of Spiritualism, or that my declaration of faith will be followed by its
acceptance by all who read it; but I wish to make a simple statement as an act of common justice,
by which I shall redeem a promise made at a time when I used my utmost endeavours to explain
away that which I have discovered to be a demonstrated truth.
Those who have known me longest will be able to bear witness to the interest with which I
have always regarded Spiritualism; and being possessed of some slight mediumistic ability, have
studied and tested the subject in every form, patiently stopping at every new step to critically
examine each test, statement, and communication. After several years of careful investigation, I
was led to the conclusion that the whole of the phenomena could be satisfactorily explained upon
a scientific basis without any interference on part of disembodied spirits. Try as I would, I found
no communication which would warrant me going to a greater extent than this; and in this belief
I determined to oppose the more advanced theory. At the same time I never claimed to have
exhausted the subject, and declared my intention of continuing its investigation, avowing my
readiness to advance my position at any time when sufficient evidence could be adduced.
Many in the North of England who were acquainted with Spiritualism ten or twelve years
ago, will remember my promise that, if I should ever find myself to be wrong, I would not shrink
from making it known. It is in fulfilment of this promise that I make this statement.
Since my residence in London, business has prevented me giving such active attention to the
subject as formerly, but I have never ceased to follow up the inquiry, without any change of
opinion until November, 1884. During that month the question was introduced by a gentleman in
392
a company where I was present, and a somewhat lively debate resulted. I advanced my theory,
and offered to prove it, which was immediately accepted by a Mr. S., a gentleman of some
scientific standing, who was also a Spiritualist. Another of the company, Mr. B., wished to join
us, the latter being an Atheist. An arrangement was made to sit a certain number of times, under
conditions to which we all agreed, and at the termination of our investigation we were to
compare notes. The sittings took place in the rooms of Mr. B., and commenced with table
movements, but were, after the fourth sitting, principally devoted to the trance, I myself being
the medium.
Of the first three séances I have nothing particular to record except that I was perfectly
satisfied. At the fourth the name of Samuel B. was given, and claimed to be an uncle of Mr. B.,
who laughed at the idea, as, he said, he never had an uncle of that name. Still, the correctness of
the statement was maintained and additional details given by which to identify the spirit if Mr. B.
would write home. Let me here say both these gentlemen were Americans. In answer to further
inquiries, Mr. B. was told to re-open the workings of a certain mine which he bad closed, as it
contained valuable mineral, further details of which were promised at the next sitting. This
promise was redeemed by my drawing, when in the trance state, a diagram of the mine,
appending very detailed measurements and instructions as to where a new opening was to be
made. The particular attention given even to the smallest matters considerably interested and
surprised me, although I still anticipated having a laugh at the confidence Mr. S. expressed in its
correctness.
In the meantime, inquiries had been set on foot respecting Samuel B., and shortly afterwards a
letter was received confirming the communication as far as possible, but it appeared he went
West with some early settlers and bad not afterwards been heard of, so that his death remained an
open question. With respect to the mine, I may say that some months later, when it was too late
for the tidings to have any weight in influencing my opinions, I learned from Mr. B. that he had
found, so far as he had been able to investigate the truth of the statement, that the information
was quite correct.
I will only refer to one of the many other matters I could relate of these sittings. Mr. S. had
obtained (to himself) satisfactory evidence of the communicating intelligences being acquainted
with some of his friends in America, but it was no evidence to me. At one sitting he expressed a
wish to learn the exact address where a cablegram would reach Judge T. the next day, as that
gentleman was travelling at the time, and it was most important to communicate with him at
once. After a slight pause, an address was I given where the judge was to arrive at a certain hour
the following day, corresponding with eight p.m. English time. Mr. S. despatched a cablegram to
the address given, but ordered it to be repeated to the New York address of the judge. At my
suggestion we arranged to sit that same night, and about twenty minutes past eight Mr. S. was
told his cable had been received, and a reply had been sent: consisting of three code words,
which were given. The receipt of the message next day confirmed the communication in every
detail.
Of course such evidence was far beyond anything I had [anticipated] but I did not by any
means accept it as conclusive, and I began to look into the question again at home; but here I
speedily found the results far more startling. Let me give one case, which I received at this time,
393
that did more than anything else to convince me that it was spirit agency at work. I was returning
home one night by bus, about 7.30, and had reached the Marble Arch, when a voice, speaking
quite distinctly, told me to return to a certain hotel and see a Mr. R., who was stopping there. I
returned, thinking this time I should find my spirit friend at fault, but was considerably
astonished to find Mr. R. was there, and occupying the room which had been mentioned.
Determined to follow it out, I sent up my card, and shortly afterwards was explaining the
reason of my visit to the smiling stranger. He had heard of Spiritualism, but knew little about
it; still, having a short time to spare before his departure for the Continent, he acceded to my
request to sit for a short time.
In less than twenty minutes he was told of the sudden death of his sister in America; that a
cable calling him home had missed him; that if he would wait the arrival of the mail that night
he would find letters from home confirming the statement, and the notice of her death in a
paper, which was mentioned. At half-past eight we went together to the American Exchange,
where his letters were directed, and ten minutes later the mail was delivered, and the strange
communication verified in every particular.
These are a few instances which I have received since November, 1884. I could give fifty if
needs be, none of which can be explained by the theory I previously held, and therefore by the
weight of evidence I have been compelled to advance my position and accept the demonstrated
fact that disembodied friends can and do return to converse with us. By this I do not mean to
say that all the phenomena of Spiritualism have such an origin—far from it. I believe that a
very great part of that attributed to the other world has nothing whatever to do with the
departed, and is altogether the result of the psychological forces developed by the sitters.
I have no desire to extend the limits of this statement, but there is one question which I feel
bound to anticipate. Why should not our spirit friends have given me this evidence earlier? I
have learned much during this last twelve months, and am enabled to see now that it was
because I would not give them an opportunity, precisely as a great many others are still doing.
I was seeking for the grand truths of Spiritualism, but I was looking for them in the wrong
place and in the wrong spirit. I was looking for them in testism, wonderism, and criticism,
demanding to be convinced in my own way, and upon my own lines; seeking to conform the
laws of the Infinite to my puny understanding, rather than allow the infinite to lift me up to
Himself; and this is where the subject stands to-day. One has to search a long time to find any
Spiritualism in it—all the inquiry is for “signs and wonders,” test first and test last, while the
teachings of the other life are lost in the greed for some more sensational wonder, and that
medium is accounted the greatest who can most successfully out-distance such men as
Maskelyne and Verbeck.
Whatever is desired may be obtained, and the desire for such legerdemainic performances
attracts only those spirits who are au fait in these marvels, but they are not the friends who are
capable of demonstrating the highest and most ennobling truths of spiritual life; on the other
hand, these welcome wonder-workers crowd back the holier influences which are just as much
at our service, and the consequence is that Spiritualism has had a downward tendency in its
morals which it is quite time was checked, and this rampant curiosity succeeded by an earnest
and prayerful cultivation of the acquaintance of those spirits who are capable of leading in an
394
opposite direction; who use what we now call tests as mere illustrations of their teachings, and
being selected at their own time and in their own way, come upon us with additional force, and
carry conviction in their unanswerable truth. Hitherto we have been content with the
companionship, to a very great extent, of those spirits who know very little more than
ourselves; and these in their desire to appear learned have spoken of that upon which they were
equally ignorant, and hence the contradiction and confusion which exists to-day. It is time such
things came to an end, for I have learned in my recent communications at home that there are
greater and purer revelations awaiting those who are ready to receive them, and I hope the time
is not far distant when, by a united effort and determination, Spiritualism will purge itself of
the morbid tendency with which it is at present surrounded, and realising its true position and
possibilities, take wing to a higher altitude, where it will be able to manifest its Divine
appointment to aid mankind to live a life more in harmony with the teachings of the despised
Nazarene, who must ever stand as the central point of spiritual truth.”— (Signed)
ROBERT JAMES LEES.
__________________
395
[Note by Psypioneer: - Early Spiritualist mediums often saw fairies, as did for example the
sister of Alfred Kitson- see Psypioneer February 2005. 6
We are reprinting the account below as
further testimony to this widespread phenomenon. There is however a mystery associated with
this account - when did Emma make the Continental visit to which she refers?
Moreover, in this true ghost story, is there not some similarity to the acknowledged fictional
narratives Emma sometimes composed.]
SPIRITS OF THE MINES
Mrs. Hardinge, the authoress of this extraordinary narrative, has clairvoyant powers, and is well known to
English Spiritualists
BY EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN
From the “Banner of Light” (Boston, U.S.), Oct. 9th, 1875. 7
I FIRMLY, emphatically believe that we have ample demonstration of a human origin in
every manifestation where human forms are presented or human intelligence rendered. I
cannot say I know this, but I believe it, and I think an immense array of the testimony our
experiences in Spiritualism furnish us with, all tends to confirm this belief up to the point
of absolute certainty. At the same time I not only believe in, but I know the fact of the
existence of other than human spirits. I have seen them, held some kind of intercourse with
them, and confidently believe they can measurably intervene in human affairs. I have never
seen any in human form except in such a caricature, miniature, or distorted resemblance of
that divine image, that I should not have been liable to mistake them for human beings.
Commencing with the old but never out of fashion saying of Hamlet, “There are more
things in heaven and earth than we dream of in our philosophy, Horatio,” I shall give my
experience in one instance, at least, with the so-called “gnomes,” “kobolds,” or spirits of
the mines.
It is well known in certain mining districts, especially in Bohemia and Hungary, that
many of the miners cherish faith in the existence of an order of beings who take especial
interest in their labours, and help them to find rich leads of minerals, knock, or as they call
it, “hammer” away lustily when they are at fault, and sometimes by these sounds,
sometimes by lights, and occasionally by the apparition of little figures, point the way to the
richest leads of the metals. I have visited the mines in Germany and the Bohemar Wold,
where I have heard those knockings, seen the lights, and should have unhesitatingly
attributed such phenomena to the spirits of deceased friends of the miners had I not also,
6
Alfred Kitson and progressive Lyceums – Psypioneer Volume 1, No. 10 pages 123-125: -
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP10.pdf
7
THE SPIRITUALIST - OCT. 29, 1875.pages 209-210.
396
not once or twice, but many times, seen little stocky-looking things in the shape of men,
very small, and either black, red, or metallic in colour—little chunks of creatures, whom
the miners were accustomed to see and call by a name which, translated, signifies “earth
spirits.” They said they were kind and good; never meddled with them, though they
sometimes in sport threw their tools about. These miners told me they often saw lights, and
all could hear the knockings, but few could see the figures, and in some of the mines I
visited, the poor workmen thought more highly of me than ordinary, because I could see
their “well beloved little earth spirits.”
With the light of modern Spiritualism to guide me, I easily understood that I, as a
medium, could see spiritual apparitions invisible to the eyes of those who were not
mediums. I also comprehended why certain of the workmen, their wives or children, being
spiritually unfolded, could perceive the forms of those whom their less gifted companions
only knew by their knockings or flashing lights.
DERBYSHIRE GNOMES
In William Howitt’s charming sketch, called Berg-Geister, he alludes to these popular
beliefs amongst miners, but he does more, he gives a very graphic account of a certain
Clamps in the wood, where veritable gnomes figured as the principal personages. Mr.
Howitt’s narrative is supported by names, witnesses, and sundry details which confirm his
own undoubted testimony. As I happened to be one of the privileged few who visited the
haunted region which Mr. Howitt writes of, I shall cite my own experiences in the matter,
with what I trust my readers will allow to be the honest purpose of making myself
responsible for the story.
It is now some few years since, being in the neighbourhood of a lovely valley called
Dovedale, in the County of Derbyshire, England, I heard my kind host and hostess, Mr. and
Mrs. Hart, expatiating upon the singular phenomena they had witnessed in the cottage of an
old labourer (then passed away to the better world), called Clamps; I think, if I recollect
right, he had worked for Mr. Hart, who was interested in the mines adjacent to Dovedale.
My friends informed me that Clamps had resided for over fifty years in a ruinous old farm-
house, only a small part of which was habitable. The place was on the edge of the mines,
where the old man in his youth and prime had worked, and where, as I believe, he died.
During his long residence of half a century in this place, old Clamps and his associates
were accustomed to see strange globular lights, which year in and year out would come and
go with all the familiarity of household ghosts.
Mr. Hart, who was somewhat of a sceptic on the subject of my “spirits,” as he termed it,
declared that if Clamps’s lights were spirits of “humans,” they must have been those of
deceased lamplighters or gas men—for they never appeared by day, and generally chose
the long winter nights, or particularly dark evenings, for the periods of their visitations.
Old Clamps called them his “glorious Lights,” and was very particular about returning to
his shanty early every night, so that he should not miss seeing them. They came out, or
seemed to come, as my friends alleged, from a firm wall, fashioned of rock, and the blocks
so solidly cemented together that not a crack or cranny could be discovered. They generally
397
came from two or three to seven or eight in number. Mrs. Hart said that one very cold
winter’s night she saw as many as ten of these lights. They seemed to fill the little room,
and hovered about the fire as if gratified with its pleasant warmth. “They came,” said my
informant, “out of the wall, some about two feet from the ground, others as high as three
feet, but none more than four, and all remained the same height during the time of their
stay.” They shook, trembled, or fickered the whole time, as if they were quivering with fear
or cold. They had been seen for years and years, longer, indeed, than the memory of the
“oldest inhabitants” of that region could trace them, except the venerable octogenarian
Clamps, who affirmed they had always been there as long as he could remember. Their
coming was generally preceded by crackling sounds, or direct knockings, and many of the
neighbours declared they saw the figures of little men just as Mr. Howitt’s narrative
describes them—namely, “black as a coal, and polished as a boot.” One of the neighbours,
a woman who had often visited the cottage of Clamps with her children, described the
appearance of the little men as being short, chunky, destitute of hair, polished all over, and
bearing about the region where the heart lies in human beings a large globular light about
the size of an ostrich's egg. It was this light, she said, “which the folks saw,” and it was by
this light that she and her children saw them. She added, they did not walk, but jumped
about, and their incessant restless motions caused the flickerings which the lights always
exhibited. My friend Mrs. Hart always beheld the dim outline of little figures
accompanying the lights, but the distinctness with which these creatures were seen seemed
to depend upon what in our philosophy we term mediumistic endowments. Other forms had
been seen at Clamps’s, such as dogs, horses, and even wild beasts, but as the cottage was
inaccessible to horses, and no other animals of any kind were kept or known to frequent
that neighbourhood, these accounts were set down to superstitious exaggerations.
A NIGHT IN A HAUNTED HUT
I might fill a volume with the stories related to me of this region, and the matter-of-fact
narratives which many of the most intelligent of the miners and their families furnished me
with seemed beyond gainsay or denial. Shortly before my visit to that section of country
terminated, my friends the Harts proposed to give me an opportunity of witnessing for
myself some of the marvels they had discoursed about. They told me old Clamps had
passed away; that the cottage he had inhabited had been tenanted for some years by a very
decent family of poor peasants, but as the children grew up the elder members of the
family, fearing the continual manifestation of preternatural sights and sounds would make
them “skeary” and superstitious, had at length moved away, and the place had been
abandoned. It was the opinion of the few labourers who had been accustomed to see and
had grown familiar with Clamps's “glorious lights,” that they. would never come out except
a fire was lighted there; and as the place was deserted and very far remote from other
inhabitants, my friends proposed to take me to a still more distant neighbourhood, and one
where, as they knew by experience, my curiosity might have a good chance to be gratified.
Starting early one fine October morning we drove about ten miles from home, intending
to visit the mines, which commenced about the end of Dovedale Valley, but terminated in
the direction my friends pursued. Arrived at a wild and most romantic glen, we left our
horses and carriage at a poor tavern called “The Miner’s Rest.” perched on the very top of
398
the mass of rocks which reared up their craggy heights like sentinels guarding the entrance
to the charmed region. Our path was continued for more than two miles aping a rough road
broken out of fallen trees and crumbling rocks by the wheels of the heavy wagons used for
conveying the mineral from the mines. A more wild, weird, and toilsome journey I never
in my life undertook, and in truth I became so fatigued during its progress that we had
some doubts whether I should be able to muster strength enough to accomplish our
pilgrimage. It was twilight before we gained our point of destination, and glad enough I
was to see the glowing fires of what looked more like a little encampment of gipsies than a
village, although it was really dignified with that title. My friends guided me at once to a
hut more pretentious than the rest, and introduced me to a family who had formerly been
servants in their household. It consisted of a man, his wife, mother, and two fine lads, all of
whom were employed in different ways in the adjacent mines. As we stated that we had
only come to inspect these mines, and that the lateness of our visit was occasioned by the
difficulties which attended our journey, the good, hospitable people were at once apprised
of the necessity of providing us with some accommodation for passing the night. The
women, after busying themselves to provide us with some boiling water for our tea—for we
had carried provisions with us—agreed to retire to a neighbour’s hut with their boys, whilst
the father, who was on duty in the mines, left us soon after we arrived. The shanty was to
be at our disposal, then, during the night.
IMPISH PRANKS
Mr. Hart was to be “stowed away” in a cave at the back of the house, hewn out of the
rock, and filled with sweet, fresh hay, for the use of the horses employed by the miners,
whilst a rude but clean bed was assigned to Mrs. Hart and myself. When all was done the
women piled up the logs on the hearth, where a cheerful fire was burning, and prepared to
quit us. Just as they were bidding us good night, the logs, which they had arranged with
some care, suddenly tumbled down and rolled over and over on the floor. Deeming this a
mere accident I took no notice of it until I observed, whilst Maria the miner’s wife, was in
the act of replacing them, several small, glimmering lights flickering over the wall against
which the logs were piled. This might have been the phosphorescent light occasioned by the
decay of the wood, I thought; but lo! the logs were no sooner piled up again than down they
toppled, and that apparently without any cause. I then observed significant looks passing
between the mother and daughter, and an evident disposition to linger and make some
explanation as yet unspoken. At this moment a succession of loud knockings was heard on the
wall at the back of the room, which I should say, by-the-by, was of stone, and little more than a
cave, having been partly formed out of the solid rock.
“Is not that some one knocking?” I inquired; “perhaps it is Mr. Hart. We had better see what
is the matter.”
“No, ladies,” said our hostess, with some hesitation, “it isn’t anybody—that is, no one in
particular; it’s the way of this place.”
“But what, then, is the way of the place?” asked Mrs. Hart, merrily, and with an evident
wish to encourage the poor woman. But before they could answer, down came the brushes on
399
the wall, the frying-pan, and sundry other things that bad been hung up on shelves and hooks.
The rude door shook violently, and knockings now resounded from every side of us in quick
and irregular showers.
“The wind is rising,” said my friend; “I fear we shall have a stormy night.”
“Don’t be skeary, ladies,” said our good hostess, encouragingly, “but I s’poose as how I’d
just bett say them’s not the wind, but just the little hammerers; you knows who, marm,” she
added, nodding mysteriously to Mrs. Hart.
“Oh, yes! I know all about them, Betty,” said my friend, addressing the mother; “they
won’t hurt us, but they seem rather rough to-night. Don’t they like our being here?”
“Lord love ye, marm,” replied the old woman; “it’s all along of they’s joy to see ye that
they’re making this to-do. I think they be mortal glad to see the young lady. Only look’ee
there, marm!”
WHAT THE LITTLE GOBLINS DID
I did look, and there, to my astonishment, and I must confess with a thrill of deeper awe
than I could account for or control, I saw a row of four lights as large as the veritable ostrich’s
egg which adorned the mantle shelf of the humble shanty. These lights were directly behind
me, and I did not see them till, attracted by the woman’s explanation, I turned round and faced
them. They were bright, globular in form, vapoury in substance, and nebulous, thickening
towards the centre, and deepening in colour almost to a dull red. The faint outline of a
miniature human form appeared in connection with each light. They were of different sizes;
none of them, however, were higher than four feet. They jumped up and down, and threw out
something which resembled hands toward me, and as they moved the lights danced and
shimmered. These wonderful things at length retreated into the solid wall behind them, and the
place where they had been was illuminated only by the light of the wood fire. For two hours
the women (who stayed with us at our earnest request.), Mrs. Hart and myself, watched for the
reappearance of these spectral lights in vain. In the interim the knockings continued, and a. few
stray gleams like stars shone out from the other side of the apartment, but immediately
vanished. A kitten which was attempting to sleep in the warmth of the cheerful fire, would
raise its head at the sounds of the knockings, and occasionally make a dart at the shimmering
lights, which, as if perceiving the animal, would retreat quickly back into the wall. I repeatedly
passed my hand over these walls to ascertain if they were damp, or whether any chinks were
there from which phosphorescent emanations could proceed. The walls were dry, solid, and
smooth, and whilst I was pursuing my examination the knockings would thrill the solid stone
beneath my very hand. At the expiration of two hours an exclamation of the elder woman
called my attention to the hearth, where two large globular lights were hovering midway
between the floor and the table, and just above the little kitten, who, with back and tail erect
and eyes gleaming fiery red, manifested the most pitiable signs of terror and amazement.
Once again, and this time far more distinctly, I saw the little men I had before but
imperfectly beheld. They were grotesque in shape, with round, shining heads, destitute of hair,
400
perfectly black, and more human about the head than the body. I saw their faces, and
recognised a sort of good-humoured expression in them, and saw them throw somersaults
several times as if for my amusement. A strange duck with each little head ended the perform-
ance, and then they sank into the ground made of planks laid down upon the rock of which the
house was built.
“There,” cried the younger woman, “they won’t mislest ye again, ladies. When they goes
down, they never comes again the night. It’s the end of their game to sink down like that.”
The woman was right. Though at our entreaty both mother and daughter remained with us
all night, sleeping soundly, curled up on shawls and garments, and though we, lying awake,
and—must I confess it?—shivering and trembling from head to foot, kept our eyes open,
straining them in every direction, and with bated breath and ears sharpened by fearful
anticipation, listened until we could hear the deep silence of that long, long night—we neither
heard nor saw any more of the “little hammerers.”
The morning came at length. Oh! what an age it was coming! Mr. Hart joined us as we
were waiting for the morning meal. He had heard knockings, be said, but concluded it might be
the re-echo of the labourers’ hammers from the mines so close to us. The miners were not at
work, and no hammering came from them, our host told us, with a significant smile at the rest
of his family. The adventures of the night were now recounted and talked over. They were not
strange, nor even alarming to the miners. The two lads declared they had “fine fun with the
hammerers’ lanterns,” though they acknowledged they had never seen the little men, but plenty
of others had, they said, and “they wouldn’t part company with them for nothing.” for they
were famous guides to the spots where the richest lodes of metal lay. The women, too, spoke of
their appearance with indifference. “They came often,” they said; “and though they cut up now
and then, throwing things around like, they were only in fun, and never did any harm, except to
the animals they had.” They thought somehow they did not like dogs or cats, for they couldn’t
keep any; they either ran away or died suddenly. They didn’t expect, they added, to keep this
kitten long.” I agreed in this opinion, for, judging of the terror the poor little thing displayed on
the previous night, I was not surprised to find it moping in the morning, and averse to touch the
food the boys prepared for it. I found, although these lights and knockings were common
enough in the mines at times, they only seemed to come at special periods, and did not
frequent or haunt any other house than the one we visited, and that of old Clamps, many miles
distant. There seemed to be many evidences that these apparitions, be they what they might,
either attached themselves to or made themselves manifest only in the presence of mediumistic
persons. The family we visited were far too ignorant to understand anything of mediumship,
although they were not unacquainted with the idea and theory of “ghost-seeing.” They were
not afraid of their well-beloved “little hammerers,” but they were all “terribly scared” by the
occasional manifestations of a spiritual character, which they narrated to me with a simplicity
which impressed me with a conviction of their veracity.
I have never seen this family and never visited that region since. My experiences, however,
in this connection, do not begin nor end here.
__________________
401
THE DANGERS OF AN SPR STUDY
DAY, AND OF A CPS LIBRARY BOOK
~~~~~~
The surprising dangers of psychical research are dramatically illustrated by a new book about
Conan Doyle. The author, Roger Straughan will be recalled by Psypioneer readers for his review
in December 2004 8
of “Out of the Shadows” Georgina Doyle’s biography of Conan Doyle’s
forgotten family from his first marriage.
While receiving over some years a series of book tests connected with Conan Doyle, Dr
Straughan narrowly escaped death in a train crash as he sat reading, in a carriage, “Thy Kingdom
Come”, a book from the CPS library, of critical importance in the emergence of the White Eagle
Lodge.
Moreover, he was returning from a Saturday study day organised by the Society for Psychical
Research.
It was after the crash that he decided to put his book test experiences into consecutive form. The
result is a highly original and entertaining mystery book that can be read with profit by all
interested in the paranormal. 9
But was Dr Straughan’s railway experience in any way influenced by his psychic involvements,
or is it to be explained, like the remarkable evidence in the book, as a concentration of
coincidences of a kind that have happened before around psychical and ufological investigators?
LP.
__________________
8
New light on Arthur Conan Doyle – Psypioneer Volume 1, No. 8 pages 66-67: -
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP8.pdf
9
Study in Survival, A Conan Doyle Solves the Final Problem by Roger Straughan: -
http://www.o-books.com/obookssite/book/detail/496
402
Book Review
A STUDY IN SURVIVAL
Conan Doyle Solves the Final Problem
By Roger Straughan
O Books, 2009
A Study in Survival mimics the title of the very first Sherlock Holmes story, A Study in Scarlet;
and the sub-title, Conan Doyle Solves the Final Problem reflects not only the title of the 26th
, and
intended last, Holmes story, The Final Problem, wherein Conan Doyle ‘bumped Holmes off’
Reichenbach Falls, but also the ability of Holmes’s creator, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, to prove his
personal survival of the death of his physical body – which occurred on 7th
July, 1930.
Conan Doyle, in the last 15 years of his physical life, became a propagandist for spiritualism’s
vital message – the message behind any genuine message given via a psychic medium: that every
human personality survives the death of the physical body. And, furthermore, that the conscious
mind continues to function in a different dimension of a much finer vibratory state of being.
Dr Roger Straughan, sometime in the mid 1990’s, became an unsuspecting target for ACD’s
attention (as Roger and I both affectionately refer to the ongoing personality of Sir Arthur). And
Roger, with a philosopher’s enquiring mind, soon realised that “readings” brought evidence that
not only had ACD survived but that ACD was aware of all Roger’s thoughts, activities and
everyday problems – AND was available to help him!
A “reading” for Roger was not the normal reading obtained by consulting a psychic medium but
was obtained by randomly selecting and opening one of Conan Doyle’s books. This he
discovered through the death of his dog, Sgott: that whatever matter was on his mind he could
pick up a book written by Conan Doyle, open it at random, and whatever his eyes first lighted
upon was an answer to his thoughts! Far more often than not, the passage made sense! Just as if
he had discussed the matter or question with Sir Arthur in person.
So many of Roger Straughan’s experiences in delving into the ACD mystery parallel my own
pathway with the spirit entity of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle that it gave me an uncanny sense of
ACD’s hidden amusement and satisfaction when I was introduced to Roger and read his draft
manuscript. That early manuscript of A Study in Survival, now dedicated For Sir Arthur – and all
the Dogs, was ‘unleashed’ on me nearly a year ago now, and I have keenly awaited it’s
finalisation and publication.
Now, with a review copy of the book in my hands, I relive the thrill of discovering that amazing
confirmation of the capacity of those who have passed through the veil before us to interact in
our lives: to lead us, to tease us, to prove their continuing existence, and to serve us in the
fulfilment of our physical lives.
403
Although Straughan does not give a calendar of the progression of his experiences, with a little
bit of Holmesian sleuthing, it is relatively easy to appraise the approximate timeframe.
• He had built a modest collection of Conan Doyle’s books long before I was first
introduced to ACD in 1992, but I believe I leapfrogged him in rapidly building my
collection of the same range of virtually all of Conan Doyle’s books: the …noble, silent
comrades, waiting in their ranks… (Through the Magic Door, p1) – all the books Roger
quotes from I have at my own finger tips;
• I had contacted ACD’s daughter in the 1990’s before her passing in 1997, by mail and
then by telephone – but never got to meet her: just as Roger had corresponded with her –
but not had the satisfaction of meeting her face to face;
• Roger had been introduced to ACD via his concern over his dog’s passing, and that had
been a catalyst in seeking to find out more about Sir Arthur’s interest in dogs (a
prominent point in his life and in his books – but never a cat!) – and I had had a 13 year
experience with a wonderful Airedale which, with hindsight, I attributed as being ACD’s
‘gift from Spirit’ (Sir Arthur had had an Airedale);
• And we both – hard headed, analytical and fundamentally agnostic people – had come to
believe in life after death through our incredible experiences with ACD.
Roger’s means of communication with ACD has been different to mine. Mine has been more the
conventional type of communication with ‘the dead’ – via mediums. Nevertheless, I do feel that
ACD frequently puts thoughts into my head or things in my path to influence (bend) my so
called ‘freewill’. He doesn’t always get his way though – I’ve not yet yielded to his persistent
encouragement to “write your own book”. And, in common with Roger, he has set conundrums
for me to solve relative to finding secondhand copies of his books for sale. Yes, and as Roger
and I found in reading his biographical material, he certainly did like playing mind games and
practical jokes with his family and friends in physical life.
A Study in Survival puts forward a very coherent account of Roger Straughan’s experiences and
contains several chapters of selected examples of evidential “readings”. But for me, a real gem
came as the last chapter The Wider Picture: Survival and Beyond. As a retired university teacher
of philosophy, Roger sketches his superb views on Conan Doyle’s “vital message”. From his
original position of skepticism, he clearly states that the evidences presented to him convinced
him that death is not the end. Having established this, he then considers the question “So what?”
Is survival good news? And if it doesn’t look so rosey, how might it change one’s outlook – so
that one may nurture one’s own soul-being in preparedness for the transition from a material
world into the world of spirit. He introduces thought provoking matters such as the nature of
reality and the Ultimate Reality – and leaves the reader to ponder their own religious and
philosophical views.
Thank you, Roger Straughan.
Garth Willey,
Editor, WOODLAND WAY, A Path to Spiritual Enlightenment
Melbourne
__________________
404
[Note by Psypioneer: - Would readers agree that the case below is the most significant survival
case to come from Australia? Though much discussed by older writers, 10
it is surely overdue for
a new analysis, using the resources of the Net: -]
Taken from L1GHT, September 16, 1943
THE GREAT SHARK CASE
An analysis of the original documents
By LOUIS F FERGUSSON, C.V. O.
IN December, 1884, certain occurrences in Port Phillip Bay were revealed by discarnate
communicators; no living person could have witnessed them; and within a few days by what
seemed pure chance came overwhelming proof that they had occurred exactly as stated.
The case has often been cited in the literature of Spiritualism, but for some strange reason the
references have usually been incomplete, confused and inaccurate.
Professor Hans Driesch, for instance, in a deprecatory reference (Psychical Research, pp.
78-79) went hopelessly astray. He spoke of the vision of an accident in Sydney Harbour and of a
young man falling into the water from a boat and being mutilated by a shark, and of a Medium,
making a statement to this effect while she held in her hand an object which had been the
property of the dead man. In point of fact the accident happened in Melbourne Bay; two young
men were mutilated; no female Medium was concerned; and no Medium mentioned either
mutilation or a shark while holding any object belonging to either of the young men. In the face
of these misrepresentations it is difficult to attach any value to the Professor’s comment that the
case is “not of good evidential standing.”
PUBLISHED REFERENCES
References may also be found in the Rev. Charles Tweedale’s Man's Survival After Death,
Mr. Ernest Hunt’s Do We Survive Death?, James Robertson’s Spiritualism: The Open Door
to the Unseen Universe, and in two of the books of Professor Bozzano which have been
translated into English; Animism and Spiritism and Discarnate Influence in Human Life. The
astonishing thing is that of these authors Robertson was the only one to mention that the case is,
so to speak, double-barrelled; there were two brothers who each suffered the loss of an arm, and
that messages about the accident came not from one Medium only but from two. And even
Robertson did not adduce what is surely the high light of the case; the elder brother’s
communication to a medium in Melbourne about his brother's mutilation as well as his
communication to a Medium in Adelaide (six hundred miles away) about his own mutilation.
10
See also: - Experiences of Mr George Spriggs – Spirits bring Tidings of tragedy (page 209) Psypioneer Volume 3,
No. 9 pages 207-213: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.9September07..pdf
405
At this juncture, in order to make what follows as clear as possible, an attempt must be made
to summarize the incidents, so as to show their importance from the point of view of their
subsequent verification.
Three young men set out on a cruise off Melbourne on the night of 13th December, 1884, or
early morning of the following day. As they had not returned by the 16th the father of two of
them held several sittings with a Medium in Melbourne in the hope of enlightenment. The
medium said that the occupants of the yacht had been drowned and the arm of the younger son
bitten off by a shark. The armless body of this son was found afloat about ten miles from
Melbourne on the 21st December. A few days later the father received a letter from a friend in
Adelaide saying that the elder son had communicated with him clairaudiently and had announced
the seizure of his own arm and his waistcoat by a large fish unlike any shark which he had ever
seen. On the 27th December a huge shark of an unusual kind was caught at Frankston, 27 miles
from Melbourne. Inside its belly were found the arm and waistcoat of the elder son. I should add
that the third young man, Murray, who was also drowned, has no connection with the evidential
side of the case, although his presence was clairvoyantly observed by the Medium in Melbourne.
The statements thus summarized are taken from two letters of, respectively, the 20th
December, 1884; and the 21st March, 1885, published in the Australian spiritualistic periodical,
The Harbinger of Light, and written, by Mr. Hugh Junor Browne, the father of the two young
men. Mr. Browne also issued the letters in pamphlet form, and in 1892 reprinted them in A
Rational Faith, published by George Robertson and Company, of Melbourne, Sydney and
Adelaide. Incidentally, it is mentioned in this book that a tombstone in. the Melbourne General
Cemetery commemorates, among others, Hugh Mackenzie Browne, aged 20 years, and William
Macdonald Browne, aged 18 years, “who were drowned in Port Phillip Bay through the
foundering of the yacht Iolanthe on the 15th December, 1884.”
ANALYSIS NEEDED
It must be admitted that Mr. Browne was not a very lucid writer, and the statements in the
two newspaper; letters and in a subsequent résumé (also given in A Rational Faith) require a
somewhat close analysis in order to reconcile them and to obtain a clear picture of the sequence
of events and the evidential importance of the supernormal manifestations.
It seems possible by such analysis to establish the following conclusions;-
(1) Two Mediums gave messages about the disaster. The first was George Spriggs, in
Melbourne. He employed two methods, (a) trance clairvoyance, improved at an early stage by
the creation of psychic rapport through psychometrizable articles - namely, two pocket-books
which had belonged to the brothers, and (b) control in trance by each of the two discarnate young
men. The second Medium was a friend of Mr. Browne in Adelaide. He was clairaudient and
received a message from the spirit of one brother only - Hugh the elder.
(2) No less than four precise and important references to the facts that no living person could
have known were made through the two Mediums and were subsequently verified. First,
William Browne’s statement, while controlling Spriggs on 18th December, 1884, that the yacht
406
foundered at nine o'clock, was verified by the discovery of Hugh Browne’s watch inside a shark
on the 27th December with the hands stopped at that hour. Secondly, Hugh Browne’s statement,
while controlling Spriggs at one of the sittings held by Mr. and Mrs. Browne before the 20th
December, that William Browne’s body had been mutilated. By a shark, was verified by the
discovery of William’s armless body on the 21st December. Thirdly, Hugh Browne’s statement
to the clairaudient in Adelaide on the 26th December, that a large fish had taken part of one of
his arms and torn off his waistcoat, was verified when the fish was caught and opened on the
27th December. Fourthly, Hugh Browne’s further statement, in reply to a question asked by the
clairaudient on the 26th December, that if the large fish was a shark he had never seen one like it
before, was also corroborated on the 27th December when the fish in question proved to be a
shark of the white deep-sea species and not the blue variety common to those waters.
OMISSION EXPLAINED
It will be noticed that Mr. Browne's first letter to The Harbinger of Light was dated the 20th
December and that the verifications of the supernormal messages did not occur until the 21st and
27th December. It will naturally be asked, with every expectation of an affirmative answer,
whether Mr. Browne mentioned the mutilations for which the sharks were responsible. As a
matter of fact he did not do so: and at first sight this omission seems indeed to impair what
Professor Driesch called the evidential standing of the case. But does it really have that effect? It
is known that Mr. Browne was a convinced and ardent Spiritualist whose own daughters
possessed - one of them in notable degree - the gift of automatic writing: and, judging from the
style of his published works, one would hardly expect him to be concerned with the strict
evidential standards which any Psychical Research Society would very properly demand before
it would deign to consider a story of this kind. Furthermore, it seems not unreasonable to suggest
that it could scarcely have occurred to Mr. Browne as within the bounds of natural possibility
that the mutilations would or could ever be substantiated. So why make public mention of what
he no doubt felt to be an essentially unverifiable mediumistic communication of an extremely
painful character?
However that may be, Mr. Browne begins his second letter (written about twelve weeks after
the capture of the shark) with the remark that he had refrained up till then from allowing his wife
to know about the injuries on account of her state of health. He then proceeds to introduce the
subject of the supernormal messages about the sharks in the following words, which I quote in
full: “I may however, observe that one critic asks why my sons when communicating did not
tell us about their bodies having been attacked by sharks instead of merely stating, when asked
regarding their physical bodies, that they were greatly decomposed through having been several
days in the water. This I consider to be a reasonable question and in reply, though I may not be
credited by those who do not know me, I have to state that my son Hugh, when communicating,
called his elder brother aside out of hearing of his mother, and informed him, through the
Medium, regarding the mutilation of his brother William's body by a shark. This I did not
mention in my letter to you for obvious reasons. Hugh also, the day previous to the shark being
caught at Frankston, told a friend who was in Adelaide at the time, and who is a clairaudient, that
a large fish had got part of one of his arms and had torn his waistcoat off his body.” A little
further on Mr. Browne adds that he received a letter from another friend in Adelaide to whom the
clairaudient had mentioned at the time the fact of this message. And he then describes the finding
407
of Hugh's watch “with the hands pointing to nine o’clock, the very hour at which we had been
informed through the Medium on the 18th, or nine days previously that the catastrophe had
occurred.”
THE LATENCY HYPOTHESIS
The question must be answered as conclusively as possible whether telepathy in articulo
mortis from any of the three yachtsmen can explain away the spiritistic interpretation of the
messages. Apart from the fact that no psychic rapport seems in the slightest degree probable
between the third young man Murray and the two Mediums, there remains the hypothesis of
latency. According to the theory of latency a telepathic message from a dying person may lie
submerged for a period in the unconscious mind of the percipient. The authors of Phantasms of
the Living allowed twelve hours as the maximum, within reason, for such period. It would
hardly then be reasonable to discredit the post-mortem interpretation of the Shark Case by
postulating latency, when the period for the Melbourne Medium was at least eighty and for
the Adelaide Medium at least two hundred and sixty hours.
THE QUESTION OF RELIABILITY
There is also the consideration whether it is possible so long after the event to feel any
assurance of the reliability of the persons concerned. Now Mr Hugh Junor Browne was found
on personal acquaintance by Frederic Myers to be “a man of high standing” both in character and
capacity (Human Personality, vol.2 p. 172). And Mr. George Spriggs is known to have had a
long and honourable career as clairvoyant, materializing Medium and especially as psychic
healer, in Cardiff, Melbourne and London. In the last period of his 1ife he was a member of
the Council of the London Spiritualist Alliance. In LIGHT for 24th September, 1942, Mr. W.H.
Evans made him the tenth subject of his “Famous Mediums.” Mr. Evans did not fail to refer to
the message from Adelaide, but followed the example of other writers in ignoring any
communication through Spriggs about an injury due to a shark. Regarding the gentleman in
Adelaide, we have only Mr. Browne’s statement that he was a friend and a grand clairvoyant
and clairaudient Medium.” His name is not given.
An independent corroboration was provided during Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s Australian tour.
He related the story, and at the close of the lecture a member of the audience announced himself
as the fisherman who had actually captured the large shark.
It only remains to clear up some confusion in two of the works of Professor Bozzano.
Readers - one can but hope that they are very many - of his extremely important Discarnate
Influence in Human Life, my be disconcerted to find that his account of the shark case does
not altogether square with the facts as Mr. Browne stated them; and the same remark applies to
the earlier work Animism and Spiritism. Incidentally, after having had to comment somewhat
acidly on the late Professor Driesch’s evaluation of the affair, it is a pleasure to quote his tribute
to his Italian colleague as “the best theoretician in our field.” Such discrepancy as exists between
Bozzano’s account and the original documents can, I think, be both explained and to a large
extent justified.
408
It seems advisable to try to do so as the Shark Case is one of the twenty-six links in the chain
of evidence by which Bozzano supports his momentous thesis that the existence and survival of
the human spirit can b e a m p l y proved quite independently of the subliminal faculties of
living communicators - which faculties are endowed with virtual omniscience by our opponents
in the hope of establishing the purely animistic character of apparent proofs of Survival.
PROFESSOR BOZZANO'S ACCOUNT
The references to the Case will be found on pages 219-221 of Discarnate Influence, and the
following considerations should be borne in mind:
(1) Professor Bozzano explains that he is giving a résumé of a case which he cited in full in an
earlier monograph. This monograph was published in 1921 under the title Gli Enigmi Della
Psicometria. It does not seem to have been translated into English. It must not therefore be
assumed that there was any failure at that date to give facts fully and without confusion.
(2) The clairaudient message is not mentioned. At first sight the omission of any reference to
this striking cross-correspondence is most surprising. It must, however, be realized that the
writer’s sole concern in this section of his Summary of Evidence is with theoretically important
point that psychometry, usually regarded as a purely animistic faculty (i.e., a faculty residing in a
living sensitive for reading traces of the past mysteriously inherent in material objects), clearly
serves in certain instances to establish rapport with a discarnate personality and acquires
therefore spiritualistic significance. For Bozzano’s purposes at that stage of his admirable
argument the clairaudient message is irrelevant. All that he wishes to bring out is the fact that the
handling of two pocket-books enabled Spriggs to contact one of the young men and furnish
details of events which occurred after the last occasion when the books had been used by their
owners. In Adelaide there can presumably be no question of any psychometric prelude to the
clairaudient message.
(3) The Professor stresses the fact that his book is a synthesis of his numerous earlier
publications made in response to a request of the Committee of the International Spiritualist
Congress of Glasgow in 1937. In a possibly hurried synthetizing of the material contained in his
monograph on psychometry he has not escaped a danger to which such a process is especially
liable, the danger of telescoping. He states on p. 220 that the discovery of the contents of the
shark’s stomach confirmed the tragic particulars furnished by one of Mr. Browne’s sons through
the mouth of Spriggs.
UNFORTUNATE CONFUSION
This is an unfortunate confusion between Hugh Browne’s bodiless arm and William
Browne’s armless body. As will be clear from the précis of verified communications given
above, it was the discovery of William Browne’s body floating in the Bay and not the opening of
the shark's belly which confirmed the message about mutilation given by Spriggs while he was
entranced and controlled by Hugh.
409
It would be interesting to know whether readers are aware of any other considerations which
might help to clear this unique and dramatic case from aspersions on its evidential standing.
__________________
LESLIE’S SEASONAL QUIZ
~~~~~~
When we read elsewhere a wild historical assertion, we sometimes say “I bet they are not
Psypioneer readers”. This is because all our readers, to be sure, never confuse names or dates,
(unlike the editors) or repeat unsubstantiated myths. To help sharpen memories, in our usual
seasonal quiz, we have posed one question for each issue in sequence from January 2009.
(Answers in the January 2010 issue.)
1. What was Percy Wilson told at lunch by Maurice Barbanell in 1941?
2. Who started the newspaper “Harbinger of Light”?
3. What journal did Allan Kardec found?
4. Why was William Crookes obliged to repudiate a claim by Florence Marryat?
5. Who may have first mentioned Ectoplasm on the wireless?
6. Who was Mr Splitfoot?
7. How did Minnie Parsons go down in history?
8. Who was the guide of the Conan Doyle home circle?
9. How did Mr. Henry Diedrich Jencken take an irrevocable step?
10. Why is a certain Curator’s blog of such importance?
11. Who was the chief survival researcher of early American Spiritualism?
12. Who is the chief suspect for the Chicago account of the psychic discovery of Jack the
Ripper?
__________________
410
PLEASE
SUPPORT PSYPIONEER
Since the launch of Psypioneer Newsletter by Leslie Price in 2004, Psypioneer has grown
considerably with its world-wide free subscribership during the last 5 years, becoming
Psypioneer Journal this year.
The total running costs are met by the editorial team; the monthly research is a labour of self
interest, and dedicated to the Psychic Pioneers.
Psypioneer would be most grateful for any donations of Books or Journals, (we pay the postage
costs) to further our researches, or financial gifts to help purchase new material and the general
running costs of the free journal.
Also, buying books through us helps!
Payments by PayPal please use: - paulgaunt01@aol.com
By post cheques payable to: -
P.J. Gaunt
6, South View,
Prixford,
Barnstaple,
Devon EX31 4DY
U.K.
__________________
Please Note: -
Nettie Colburn Maynard (part Two) will now appear in the New Year.
________
Please note: - “Copyright of all material appearing in LIGHT is reserved to the authors and
original publisher. It may not be reproduced or translated, either wholly or in part, without
written permission. LIGHT is still published by the College of Psychic Studies and you are urged
to subscribe. http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/index.html”
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
411
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
MRS MILLER’S GIFT CD: Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. @ £9.99 +Pp £2.00.
‘Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-
9553420-8-0. See Psypioneer 3.11: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K., postage,
elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’ By John
Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of Parapsychology
formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara & Ann Harrison @ £7.50 +
Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-9514534-6-
9. See Psypioneer book review: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £14.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism - a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this
is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’ Leslie
Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small booklet 8pp
£2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
‘Occultism and Spiritualism – a book review by, Stainton Moses originally published under the
pseudonym M.A. (Oxon). Published 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 10pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
All three Psychic Pioneer Publications £6.00 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
412
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
___________________________
413
