{"name":"Essay On Somnambulism","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1788__bell___essay_on_somnambulism.pdf","mytitle":"Essay On Somnambulism","mylang":"de"}
__-._ - ->----- -_.-- _ _ _.- ..- __-' ----_'_. - _ - .._i ,---, 5 s; w x
E'S s A Y
SOMNAMBULISM>
OR
SL'EEP-WALKING,
PRODUCED BY
Animal Electricity and Magnſietiﬁn.
-
*
As WELL As B'_'ſiSY-MPATHY,\ &52.
\
I \
As PERFORMEP "
BY THE REV. JctOHN BELL-, Aſ
'Mwm-__ _
1
MEMBER OF THE PHILOSOPH'CAL HARMONIC socm'r'
OF FRANCR, FELLOWLORREsPnMmN-T TO THE
museum AT PARIS, AND TjEv O'NLY ranson
AUTHORIFSD 'ſip TEAc'u AM) PRACTISR
- THATSCIENCP.lNGREATBRlTAIN,
- IREPAND, &it.
'NNW-w
'The ſoul's dark cortage batter'd and decay'd,
Lets in new light through chinks which time has made.
WALLE/R.
.ctDUBLIN:
\
Printed for, and to be had ofrhe AU THOR, alſo of Mr. BU T LBR,
ﬂo. 2, Grafton-ſh-eet, an_d other Boakſellers.
MDCCLXXXVIXI.
£ Price One Britiſh Shﬂling. ]
\
44.-4------,.,___
__
_
,_
PRE'FACE.*
I 'WAS not initiated in the Science of Animal
Electricity and Magnetiſm, until [Was introduced
to the Auguﬅin Convent at Paris, where the cele- ,
brated Father Harvier, attended daily a great num
ber of patients, of every rank and degree, gratis.
Iwas inﬅantly ﬅruck with aﬅoniſhment by the Mag
netical Somnambuliſm, which I ſaw conﬅantly per
forming befo're crouds of the moﬅ reſpectable and
digniﬁed clergy, who aſſembled every day, all of
whom were thoroughly convinced that the art was
practiſed by men of integrity, without any deceit.
I was ſoon after preſented to the famous and learned
Marquis de Puyſegur, and to ſeveral other noble
' men, diﬅinguiſhed in the literary world ; who took
delight in ſhewing thoſe Phenomena to their friends.
Scarcely hadl acquired a knowledge of the ſcience,
before Iput one perſon in a ﬅate of Somnambuliſm,
which made me exult on the ſucceſs, as my tutors
in the ſcience were preſent, viz. General Meziere,
Chevalier Juﬅamond, who encouraged me to perſe
vere. I na little time I produced numbers, who in that
ﬅate anſwered my queﬅions 5 found out the diſeaſes
of the people preſent, and preſcribed infallible cures
for them 3 they are called Malade Medecin, con
cerning'whom I ſhall ſpeak at large', in my Treatiſe
upon the Doctrine oſ Somnambuliſm. >
A 2 That
\
--'_('
(4)
That it is practicable to put certain perſons into
this ﬅate, need be no longer doubted, without touch
ing or giving them any previous operation. It is a
matter ﬅrange to perſons unacquainted'with the ſci
ence, but that will vaniſh when, the mind receives
inﬅruction and become's familiar with it ; in order
to the attainment of which, linvite all perſons of
every ſexct, rank and degree, to come, ſee, and judge
- for themſelves. I ſhall ſoon publiſh one Number on
Theory, and another von the Practice.
0
A N:
ES_SAY
ON THE FROBABlLITlES Of
_ Electrical and Magnetical Somnambules,
SLEEP-WAL'KERS,
T
O F all the novelties which are created by Animal
Electricity and Magnetiſm, Somnambuliſm is, doubtleſs,
the moﬅ intereﬅing. _
By Somnambuliſm is meant that peculiar ﬅate when the
- ſenſes are ſuſpended between ſleeping and waking ; partak
ing of both, and is alſo productive of many phoenomena,
which each are ﬅrangers to. _
The patient being reduced to a ﬅate of Somnambuliſm,
without touching him, is deaf to all that is near him:
Motionleſs amidlt the greateﬅ motions 3 he ſeems ſeparated
from nature, as if it were, to communicate only with
the perſon who put him into that ﬅate.
'The latter, owing to Magnetiſation alone, has an inti
' mate analogy with the patient ; by the means of a kind of
an inviſible leaver, he cauſes him to move at his pleaſure;
and ſuch is the power of his inﬂuence, that he not only
,makcs himſelf underﬅood by ſpeaking and ſigns, but even
by the very thought itſelf', and what is ﬅill more extraor
dinary, the Magnetiſer can, by a ſingle contract, commu-_
nicate
X .(' 6 . ) .
nicate his faculty to other people ; and from that moment
there is a conﬅant communication between the Somnambule
and his new dircctor.
The patient being put into a ﬅate of Somnambuliſm,'there
is in him a want' of organization, which breaks the equili
brium of his ſenſes; ſo that ſome experience an extreme
degradation, whilﬅ others acquire a prodigious degree of
ſubtlety. 1
Thus, ſome have their hearing entirely loﬅ or weakened,
and their ſight becomes prodigiouﬁy penetratin-r. In others,
the privation, both of ﬁght and hearing, are amply come
penſated by an incredible delicacy both of feeling and
taﬅe. * ſi *
And in many, aſixth ſenſe appears to declare itſelf by an
extreme extent of the intellectual faculty, far ſuperior ſſto the
common altitude of the human mind. _
In a word, the phoenomcna, attending on the ﬅate of
Somnambuliſm, daily oﬀer new ſubjects of aﬅoniſhment,
even to thoſe who ought to be more familiar with them.
It remains to conſider, whether thoſe pretended phoeno
mena are ſuch, as is propagated; or, whether on the
contrary, they are nothing elſe but illuſions, kept up by the
impoſition of ſome ill deſigned perſons and the credulity of
others.
' For it iſſs well known thatv the human mind, naturally bent
towards'every thing marvellous, eagerly ſeizes on whatever
is flattering to the taﬅe ; and there are exalted gcniuſſes to
be found that employ both their head and talents to realizc
mere chimeras. , - \
ſſ Among the perfons who have been witneſſes to the ſingu
larities attending on Somnambuliſm, ſome ﬅruck with aﬅo
niſhment and admiration, have given full credit to its inﬂu
ence, and look on it as an irreliﬅible proof of Animal
Electricity and Nlagnetiſm. ſſ '
Others, though convinced of'the reality of its phoenomena,
are yet incredulous with regard to the cauſe which produced
them. They had rather ſuppoſe in this aﬀair ſome ſecret
ſpring productive of illuſions; and, though incapable of
comprehending ſi thoſe means of intelligence, they have,
nevertheleſs, ſuppoſed their exiﬅence; alledging, for exam
ple, thoſe cunning tricks which a ſubtle philoſopher *' made
uſe to aﬅoniſh all Paris and London during many years.
, As
it Caumus and Pinetty, '
( 7 )
As to the Phyſicians, moﬅ of them have diſdained to
prove witneſſcs to the eſſects of Magnetical Somnambuliſm,
under the pretence that it was ſuﬃcient for them ſuch a
phoenomenon was contrary to thoſe notions conſeerated in
phyſic and phyſiology 5 they have conﬂlered thoſe pretended
marvcls as mere chimeras unworthy a ſerious examination.
There was even a learned body who wen't ſo far as to for
nid their members to entertain the leaſt doubt on the ſubject,
and expelled from their ſociety whomſoever have given
themſelves up to the ﬅudy of this new doctrine
However, on the other hand, Magnetieal Somnambuliſm
becomes daily moreland more conſiſtent ; a great number of
pe0ple remarkable ſor their learning, probity, ſound judg
ment and ſagaeity, certiſy beyond a doubt the reality of
Magnetical Somnanibuliſm; and that contradiction of re
ſpectable authorities on both ſides, leave the public in ſuſ
pcnce, who, to take a deeilive part in the conteﬅ, impati
cntly wait until the matter is more fully inveﬅigated.
rl'he following impartial reilections may ſerve to ﬁx the
opinion of impartial people ton the ſubject of Magnetical
Somnambuliſm. To treat this object with the more ſucceſs,
Ithinlt it is neceſſary to divide the diſcuſſion into three
partsu
The ﬁrﬅ point to he conſidered, is to know, in fact, the
public have hecn witneſſes of phoenomena of ſome impor
tance, well deſerving to excite, their curioſity, and of which
the 'Cauſe ought to be inveﬅigated. . '
Secondly, ſuppoſe the eﬀects ſpoken of deſerved to be
enquired into, 'it is proper to examine whether they cannot
reaſonahly be ſuſpected of artiﬁce.
, Laﬅly, admitting it impoſſible to ﬁnd out the artiﬁce, it
will remain to examine whether they are contrary to eom.
mon notions already received. .
Iﬅ. Are' Magnctical Somnambuliſm phocnomena of ſuch
an importance as to deſerve the curioſity of both the public
and the learned? _
The object of this queﬅion is, Ibclieve, very plain and
obvious; l mean to ſay, that previouſly to our being at the
trouble of examining whether Magnetical Somnambnliſm
be an illuſion, or reality, we muﬅ eﬅabliſh, that, there
\ ſſ _ _ - , exiﬅ,
r'- A deeree oſthe Fac'dtv oſParis, 1794, which is the ſame-As they
ﬂil for inoculation, which is now adopted by them.
4
(3)
-cxiﬅ, at leaﬅ ſeemingly, ſome ſingularities which concern
both the public good and the improvement of learning.
Many people, however, might have a right to doubt it,
becauſe they had no occaſion to know the truth of the aſſer
tion. They have a &ht to require to be ſatisﬁed, previ- ſſ
oully to the diſcuſſion oſ the two following propoſitions, viz.
U That there are either at Paris, Dublin, Scc in the provin
þ (5 ces, or any where elſe ſome people, who being naturallyv
" forced into a ﬅate of ſleep, really oſſer the phoenomena
'5 which we are about to examine."
For if it was not certain that ſuch a ſcene is not to be
met with ſomewhere, - it would be a loſs of time to enquire
into its principle. '
It is, therefore, a preliminary obligation for any body
elſe, to eﬅabliſh well the exiﬅence of Magnetical Somnam
buliſm, whether right or wrong.
This point was, for a long time, a matter of general
incredulity. They plainly denied that there were any ſuch
individuals exiﬅing any where, and the very diſcourſe held
on the ſubject, was looked upon merely asa fable to amuſe
the pub'lic. -
The ﬁrﬅ writing, which treated of Magnetical Somnam
bnliﬅs, was, iſ I am not miﬅaken, aletter from Mr. Cloquet,
paymaﬅer of rents at Soiſſons, who, relating what helhad
ſeen at Buzanci's treatment, by the Marquis de Puyſegur,
inſinuated ſomething which ſeemed to characteriſe Magne
tical Somnamhuliſm. '
Since that letter, a gentleman, whoſe candor is above alſ
ſuſpicion, has conſigned in a writing, which is, in every'
reſpect, intereﬅing, ſeveral phoenomena he had obſerved in
Mzocnci's treatment, ﬅillu more wonderful than thoſe which
Cloquet had given a ſketch of. - ct
The peruſal of this performance having inſpired ſome'
people oþf the_ﬁrﬅ rank with the eager deſire of being wit
neſſes like Somnambuliſm, the author of the above ſound'
an opportunity of gratifying their curioſity at Paris, in the .
winter of 1785. _ _
More than 5000 people' have been at liberty to ſee thoſe
phoenomena true or falſe, of which notice was taken both
in the national and foreign prints. Theſe Somnambules un
, derwent repeated trials, which all met with more or leſs
ſucceſs. þ
, Beſide:
. ( 9 )
_ Beſides thoſe mentioned, many more were madeat Paris,
Br in ſome other provinces. This Somnambuliſm example
having' induced the Magnetiſers to adhere to that part of
hiagnetiſm, they applied themſelves to it _with more zeal;
as it ſeemed to be a ſure way towards a remedy. Thus, the
concern of Magnetiſm, and that of the'patient, uniting
both to preſcribe that mode of proceeding, it is become the
common object of all Magnetiſers attempts, and in all
treatmentthey gloried 'in ſhewing ſome patient more or leſs
improved. , . '
It is evident then that there exiﬅs many individuals
'ﬅruck with a ſeeming Sor'nnambuliſm ; and I begin to eﬅah -
bliſh the queﬅion, in order' to proceed methodically, after
ſettling-conﬅant and notorious facts, which might lead to
infallible conſequences. '
It is then certain and indiſputable, that there are pre
'tended Somnambules, which oﬀer wonderful phoenomena
to the ſpectators, as eompenſative gratiſication for excited
curioſity. _ , 7 _ , .
Now, the' queﬅion is to know what opinion we ſhould
form concerning thoſe Somnarnbules ;' _if it be not afeigned
ſtate, by the vmeans of which they endeavour to impoſe on
the credulity of thoſe whom they are ſurrounded by.
ad. How far are Magnetical Semnambules toſſ'be bete _
lieved ?
Among the Somnambules I'am here ſpeaking of, I do
not include that multitude of perſons of both ſexes among
"the common people, -w :0 are to beſi'en atſhme impgﬅorr, and
may reaſonably be ſuſpected to perform Somnambuliſm,
through imitation, or to make themſelves intereﬅing, and
others who are paid for it. . '
It is a misfortune, conﬅantly attending on good things,
that they can never be preſerved in their native purity, nor
eſcape that mixture which malice' or cupidity ſeldom fail to
blcnd with them. '
Thoſe who, either through prejudice or intereﬅ, endea- \
vour to diſplay the diſcovery, take care to examine it on that
ſide only, which ſeems to convey an idea of a parent '
quackery, and never fail to Preſent it to the publicv in that
view, ' '
But thoſe who ſincerely wiſh for information, pay but
little regard 'to ſuch a conſiderationſan'd throwing aſide
'quackery and exaggerations, carefully penetrate as far as the
B principle
'
ire)
principle itſelf. Thus, a botaniﬅ, deſirous of procuring
the fruit of an Almond to be enabled to, diſcern its true
quality, is not diſcouraged by the putrid ﬂeſh which ſur
Jrounds it ; but chearfully lopping all nauſeous ſuperﬂuities,
he ﬁnds at laﬅ the fruit which is to be the rule of his
ﬅud . ' .
Iri that manner ſhould every unbiaſſrd man act, who
ſincerely ſeeks for truth, without having intereﬅ/or deſign to
deﬅroy it.
Let us contemptuouſly diſregard thoſe ſuſpicious apparent
Somnambules, and attend to thoſe who, by their civil exiﬅp
ence, their? character, manner, &e. are above ſuſpicion;
and in whom, beſides Somnambuliſm, the ſcience\ is por
trayed, and brought to the higheﬅ degree of perfection.
I think thoſe ought to be choſen among patients, in whom
Somnambuliſm appears to be in a higher degree of erſecz
tion, and ſuch a caution is, in my opinion, very ma erial.
' 'In fact, the more imperfect the Somnambulc is, the eaſier
vit is toimpoſe; if he badly anſwers your ſigns, and follows
' your motions in an untoward and ill contrived manner, he
Xapolog'izes by ſaying he is not, as yet, arrived to a ﬅate of
/perſect Somiiainbuliſm, and the obſervator, who reall
__cQnceives that ſuch a ﬅate muﬅ have its degrees, is puzzledz
on account of his not knowing whether the bad ſucceſs he
[has experienced is to be attributed to the untowardneſs oſſf
the Somnamhule, or the imperſection of his ﬅate.
But whenI ſix on a Somnambule, recommended as a
perfect being, it is evident that this taſk is very painful. In
rhzzt caſe, there is neither excuſe nor pretence; the obſerz
vator is eaſy, and Somnambuliſm has a trial to undergo,
which is to prove either his ſhame or his triumph,
Such perfect Somnambules have not been wanting laﬅ
. year in France 5 and among thoſe who have tried my expe
ctrimcnts, there is one' with whom I ﬅaid more than half an
hour, and who has before me, and at my pleaſure, executed
tſuch motions as I preſcribed
Being at my own diſpoſal, without witneſſes and contra
dictors, leſt nothing untried to diſcover the fraud, if there
had been in the caſe; but the ſwiſtneſs of his cvolutions,
the preciſion of his movements, a vaſt number oſſacts which
it would be too tedious to relate, diſconcerted all my at
tempts. '
* Many
m
_;,,r_._... _ L_,
Many other experiments, which had their intended eﬀects
'With regard to other perfect Somnambules, have all given.
me the ſame'ſatisfaction. _
_There are at Paris, and in the provinces, more than 6oo
perſons, who are in the ſame Predicament.
Therefore, to overthrow the c'onſequences reſultingſrom
ſuch experiments, there is no other reſource left, but to
Perſevere in giving out that it was__act deceitful triekon the part
of Somnambulesl
But ſuch a ſuppoſition carries with it the greateﬅ diﬃcul
ties, and is aCCOmpanied by improbabilities ﬅill more ſhoek
ingrthan Somnambuliſm itſelf.
o admit that the phoenomen'a in queﬅion are the reſult
of impoſition, two things are abſolutelyrequiredi '
rﬅ. Somnambules muﬅ have an intention of deceiving. _ ?
, ad. They mﬁﬅ be endoWed with an addreſs to do it.
But, We muﬅ ﬁrﬅ confeſs, that', among thoſe who have
already been or are daily inſpired with Somnambu'liſm, there
'are many above all kind of ſuſpicion. They are reſpectable
Women of family, men of ﬅnbility, and known integrity,
vpeople of a plain and ſimple turn of mind, children, &e.
in whom we7cannot reaſonably' ſuppoſe to exiﬅ any deſign
Orintereﬅ, _to feign a like ſituation; ' ' -
Should they be led by any faction, or the intention ofper
forming Animal Electricity and Magnetiſm with any ſeem
ing reality ? But moﬅ of them have no concern at all, as to
the fortune of Animal Electricity and Magnetifm 3, nay,
many of 'them had no notiOn of it at the moment they were
'Conﬁrming Magnerieal ſleep.- -
Shall it be ſaid, that, it is poſſible ſome' of thoſe indivi
'duals are encouraged by the partiſans of Animal Electricity
'and Magnetiſm, and that they are but a mere inﬅrument ih
the hands of the latter to favour the ſucceſs of that ſyﬅem '3
But, for what purpoſe ſhould the partifans of Animal
l'Electrieity and Magnetiſm have recourſe to ſo capricious a/
ﬅratagem? The ſuppoſition, would, at the beſt, be ad;
miſﬁble, if Somnambuliſm had originally been announced
as a neceſſary eﬀect of Magnetiſm; ſo that they muﬅ have
been forced tov reſign Animal Electricity and Magnetiſm,
had they been deprived of the reſcurce rendered themh
Somnambuliſm : but the caſe is very different. '
Animal Electricity and- Magnetiſm was originally an
nounced without the attendance of bſiomnambuliſm. This
' B 2 7 ſingularity
(' . 12 7 l
ſingularity is a later__diſeo_very, the reſult. of' the habitual'
practice of Magnetiſm. Even now, there are many Magnc
Liſers-who do not look onSomnambuliſm .as being an eﬂ'e'n;
tial part of the ſcience,_ but only asſian-aeceſſary which may
indifferentlybe united to, .or ſeparated from Magnetifm.
, From, whence it plainly follows, that if thepartiſans 0£
AnimaliElccti-icityyandMagnetifm were inu'want of agre
ſour'ce' to impoſe on' the public, ſurely they muﬅ have been
yery deﬅitute of penetration to embrace _ſo Hﬅrange a
manoeuvre, which carriedwith it' a prodigious complication
of ſprings, and inſuperable diﬃculties in'its executiona.
3. And, 'that hadyituþeen. an'artiſic'e', it'would- have be'en
ſuﬃcient to deter every honeﬅ man from entering or aﬂ'oci:
ating with it. _l ._ 1 _,
If' They muﬅſſthen, h.1_ve_on_ly dealt withhand choſen peo
ple of proﬂigate manners, and of t.he.ivorﬅ-ſort, to inveﬅ
zhem with that confidence', at the riſk' of ſeeingit betrayed,
iand made public on the very next day. lThat is not all, they
'muﬅ have found in thoſe individuals annextraordinary ad
dreſs to act ſo diﬃcult apart, land deceive the experiments
bof an enlightened and incredulous people, at whoſe tribunal
appearance muﬅ be made. ' - i i, 1
Had 'things been thustranﬁtcted, Somnambuliſm couldnot
have laſted long, and ſifar from gaining'_ci*edit,.time would
ſoon 'have diſcovered the illuſion and deceit, by the diﬃculty '
oſ ﬁnding actors capable of perpetrating the impoﬅure.
vvBut the contrary has happened ; every day- Somnambuliſm
gets new partiſans, and the credit which it 'conﬅantly ob
tains, plainly contradicts every idea of deceit. _
._ Patients are daily ſeen in that condition, in) the very boſom
of their family, under the inſpectiſi'on of their neareﬅ rela
tions, and thoſe who' are the moﬅ intereﬅedto verify their
_'ſituation. X
i Who could believe that ſuch patients, ſurrounded with
_the very horrors of death and moﬅ painful ſuﬀerings, could
diſſemble ſor the ſole intereﬅ of Magnetiſm P Their relations,
_fathers_, huſhands, wives, children-are they then concerned
in the plot ? '
Shall it be ſaid that their illneſs is feigned? It isſſ another
ſuppoſitionſſ'no leſs admiſiible; forbeſides that itv is no eaſy
matter to feign a malignant fever, a .ﬂuxion,_dr0pſy,ſi and
other diſeaſes of that kind,there are ſome ſo (well averted
that
( "13 )
that no ſſm'an in'his ſenſes Could ipUﬃbly doulit their exiﬅ:
ence. . - ſſ t' _ jſſ ' _ **'
, Another conſideration' may' be added here, that' is,'evſien in
ſuppoſing that a" healthy 1ln'afſcould'long aft-the part oſ 'al
ſick man, i _or the patient take upon himſelf to aft 'tcthectS'oniT
hambu'le 3 and£ithat people hidden before =the curtain, ſhould
preſide (Sver this mummer'ygl maintain Wollld he impoſſible'
in the execution', and whatev'c-Yr addreſs may be ſuppoſed te.
ſi exiﬅ on both ſides, the deceit muﬅ ſoon he diſease-anon;
indeed, after a few moments, IWOuld defy the moﬅ nime'
ble buﬀoon, the moﬅ expert of all, and the-moﬅ iniired'to
bodily exerciſcs, to aﬀect somnambuliſm befdr'cſi: ſcientiﬁc
perſons, or execute any ſuch thing as is 0hſer*.*eﬂv anior'ig the
Somnambules', whom'I am 'now ﬂoating of. I deſy'Tany one
to renjain during eight or ten hours, having his eyes ſly-nt,
and his eyelids quite cloſe, together; without one eſiyelid ſe
paratin from the other during that petiod of titheſ Such a
'perſevera'n'ce ſeems to be' much laſibove the reaeh-'OF human
power and patience. Who is the 'man that could remain ﬁve
ſior ſix liorirs in a motionleſs attitud'e, Withoutſli'ewi'ngthe
'leaﬅ ſenſation of what paſſes round'hictm, inacceﬃble to every
iſſemOtiohQ andall the ſudden and unſdreſe'en ſhoclcſis3of'noiſc
which' his attention ſhall, at periods, be gratified With?
'Who is that hiﬅrion'ſivſiſb'tle enough to imitate, with his
eyes cloſely ſhut, the ﬁiﬀerent'ﬁgns which will be'þre'ſented
him, and deſcribe the lines Which will he traced With a juﬅ
ne'ſs and acuteneſs, that no interval ſhall be'foun'd ſibetweeii
the order and the conipliance. A' few exPeriments of this
nature would be ſuﬃcient to diſcourage the moﬅ eonſum
'mate Saltirnbank, and make'him give up his undertaking
in two hours time. i i ._ _ - - ' . ' * '
Now, when 'we ſee' the ſame eﬀects' conﬅantly repeated, '
'without the leaﬅ eﬀort, and multiplied in the preſence'of a
prodigious number of perſons oſ all ſexes, age, and ra'oik, we
muﬅ neceſſarily acknowledge that they act through a natural
limpulſe, without any aſſiﬅance of art: for it is well know'n
that nature can eaſily perfect What is impoſſible for art to
execute. 1 *
Thus, phyſical probabilities concur with moral ones to
eﬅabliſh the reality of Magnctical Sornnanihuliſm.'-Soni
nambuliſm cannot be rejected, without ſuppoſing it-a deceit
too palp'able to credit, andin whatever mimner you act, it
will prove a phoenomenon, either moral or phyſical ; and I
' confeſs
< I4 ) \
confeſs the latter is, by far, eaſier to be conceived than
former; for anatural phcsnom'cnon, after all, is ſuſccpti-a
ble of an explanation; and the plot of a deceit, without in
tereﬅ and motive whatever, is no leſs complicated in its
ekecution. .
A number oſ people are to be ſound over whom ſuch con
ſiderations, ﬅriking as they are, can never t'riu'in'ph. Whata'
ever dilliculties may be enc'oun'ttrcd with, to make thoſe
ﬅratagems ſueceed, they ſuppoſe that ſuch an addreſs takes
place, becauſe they ſay in the things hurtful to reaſon, the
authority of teﬅingonies is of no value. 1 _
That evident impoﬃbility is a kind of reſentment on that
part ofthe public who have not then the phoenomena in queſz
tion, and inſpire-thoſe who have actually ſeen them, with
acertain degree of diﬃdence.ſi - ' _ _ .
If a Common fact, Conſiﬅenf with the uſual proceedings
_0f/nature, was only agitated, it- is in general conſeſſed, that
there would be more proofs than requiſite to eﬅabliſh its
credit, on bare words and without having ſeen it. But as
to a phuznomenon, ſo little conſiſtent with nature, which is
neither cxplicablc nor conceivable, and overthrows all re
ceived notions, we are authoriſed not only to refuſe the teſ
timony of others, but even that of our' ovvn ſenſes. It is
after ſuch an abſurdity that finally 'learned have been' heard
to ſay, U That they would not believe it if they ſaw it."
Now then it remains to conſider, whether Magnetical
Somnambuliſm, and the ſeveral plicbnomena uſually attend
ing on it, are as inconce-iva'blc as thoſe gentlemen would
iuſinuatea _ ſſ
Are Magnetical Somnambuſiſms phoe'n'omcna repugnant
to the order of nature ?
Phyſicians by aﬀecting the greateﬅ' incredulity in
Ma netical Soninarnbuliſm, under the mere pretence that
ſuch _phoeuomen0n is inconccivable, give no ſatisfactory
account of their diſhelief, becauſe, that the identical diﬃ
culty they attempt to condemn, cannot withhold the victori
ous teﬅimonies which milimtc in favour of Magnetical
Somnambuliſm. .
The diﬃculty of conceiving a phoenomcnon,by no mean
deﬅroys its reality', We are ſurrounded with a multitude of
natural marvels, which no one has the leaﬅ doubt about,
though they are incomprehenſiblc; for it' is evident-that
\ nature
(15*)
nature has preſcribed certain limits which are inacceliible to
human conception. * v '
But perhaps, ſome will ſay, 't From ſuch a mode ot
't recta oning it will then follow. that we muﬅ give credit to
't every abſurdity we hear, and believe the greateﬅ oddities
'F in the world z and thoſe who will exact ſuch a belief, ſhall
a only have to invoke the great power of nature, and the
(ſ immenſe extent of its reſourccs.
t' That way of reaſoning would deprive arts of their rules,
" and baniſh principles from ſciCnCes, in order to make room
" for raſh aſſertions, &e. our learning, inﬅead of being
't ſuſceptible of improvement and enlargem'ent,would fall
" again into chaos and confuſion," '
But that objection is, by no means applicable; for the
queﬅion is not to admit a phoenomenon under the ſingle con
ſideration that nothing is impoſſible to nature ; it is, on the
contrary, recommended that we ſhould ſubmit to the trial
of contradiction, experience, and reaſoning itſelf, a fact
certiſied by a multitude of perſons Of every denomination
who have been eye witneſſes to the ſame.
Thus, till now, preſumption is ﬅill in favour of Somnam-þ
buliſm, ſince being grounded on the ﬅrongeﬅ conſidera
tions; thoſe conſiderations are neither overcome nor weak
cned by the pretended improbability urged againﬅ them.
But what will then be ſaid, if we Were to diſcover that.
Magnetical Somnambuliſm E far from oﬀering to the learned
aninconccivable phoenomenon, incompatible with all notions
admitted both in phyſic and phyſiology; it is on the contrary,
a natural conſequence from thoſe very principles, acceſſary
of the common notions with which it is blended and united
in a very natural manner i' X
It is what I propoſe to demonﬅrate, 'and in order to
proceed methodically, I ſhall ﬁrﬅ ſucceﬃvely examine the
two articles of Magnetical Somnambuliſm, which haye ex-*
cited the reclamation of the doctors. rﬅſi The facility of
putting a patient in a ﬅate of Somnamhuliſm, ad. The
phtenomena uſually attending on ſuch a ﬅate.
Article Iﬅ. The Somnambuliſm's communication is
in the order of the already admitted notions in phyſi
ology- ' I \
It is ſomething remarkable to hear many learned men ob
ﬅinately declare it to be abſolutely impoſſible for a patient to
be put in a ﬅate of Somnambuliſm, by any art whatever,
, _ i 'when
\ (16)
'when we conſider that it is 'one of the favourite maxims in
. phyſic, that by the aſſrﬅance of art all natural revolutions
__ may be imitated in the human body. It is on that principle
that the partiſans of inoculation chief'ly relied to defend both
the practice and ſucceſs of 'that proceeding. '
All phyſicians agree, that the art ofinoculation conſiﬅs in
preventing by a ſactitious indiſpoſition in an individual,
the real one' which nature would have ſoon or 'late oc
caſioned. ' ' i
It is ﬅill according to the ſame maxim, that phyſicians
attempt to inoculate many kinds of diﬅempers, either to
prevent them, or to make thEm ſerve as a counterpoiſe to
'other diſeaſes; and now, the art of curing one diſeaſe by
another, is.eﬅeemed in medicine as a compleat knowledge of
hyſic. _ * '
The caſe being thus, and ſince it is acknowledged that na
ture is liable to imitation, by introducing ſuch or ſuch
fmaladies in'the human body, is ii ſo ﬅrange, ſo inconceivq
able, that Somnambuliſm ſhould alſo be tranſmiﬃble through
artiﬁcial meane? ' '
Spmnambuliſm is by phyſici'anslentitled a diſeaſe; it is,
therefore, in that quality as in the number of thoſe revolu
- 'tions which the power of art introduces. To that eﬀect on'e
*m0re isto be made in the career of diﬅempers, and lllO-s
culation : but ſuch an extenſion, far from contradicting the
principles of phyſiology, onlyconﬁrms them.
It is expected, however, that phyſicians will oppoſe this
fimilitude, in eﬅabliſhing ſome diſſtrcnces and diﬅinctions 3
nay, they will perhaps forget themſelves ſo far as to take
Somnambuliſm from the number of maladies, by diſowning
their noſologiﬅs in this point.
That no pretence may be leſt for ſubterfuge, we ſhall be
intent on maladies and diſcourſe ſo] ely on ſleep.
Neither doctor, or natural philoſophers, have as yet been
able to explain the cauſe of ſleep, nor the manner by which
itis produced. *
Whatever has been ſaid on the ſubject oﬀers' nothing but
mere conjectures, the work of imagination; one thing onlyr '
is certain, that ſleep comes on Whenevcr the body is in any
diſpoſition to produce it, and is put 'in ſtich'a 'diſpoſitiOH by
the aſſiﬅanceofart. Such is the evident eﬀect of narCOtiCZ-l
plants, as opium, cockle-weed, See, ' ſſ
A NQWH
.'.._.... ..-'-4 -, . 11
-( 17.)
. 'Now,- if there exiﬅs any artwhatever conducive to put the
body in a diſpoſition to ſleep, it is not ſurpriſing at all that
Magnetical proceedings might alſo produce the ſame eﬀect.
TVill they ſay that there is a wſiant of ſimilitude, becauſe in
Magnetical proceedings neither decoctions nor infuſions are ,
employed to create ſleep? Ianſwer that there is no need' at
all to have recourſe either to drink, or any dr'ug whatever,
to convert any one into the ﬅate of ſleep ; the ſame eﬀect is
produced by a multitude of other means and proceedings;
and it is even one of the particular ſingularities inherent to
ſleep, that it is produced by an inﬁnitely diﬀerent number of
cauſes, and which are all contrary to each other. , For ex
ample, if exceſſive heat cauſes ſleep, it is alſo the eﬀect of
exceſſive cold. Soldiers have been ſeen to fall aſleep on the
ſnow, and even periſh with cold in that ﬅate of drowſi
neſs. - A 1 r ſ
If gentle and ſoft friction invite to' ſleep, exquiſite ſuﬀer:
ings act the ſame 3 which is proved by the example of thoſe
vvretches, who being put to the torture, full aſleep at the r
very moment of their moﬅ poignant ſuﬀerings. Others art:
ſaid to have yielded to ſleep while lying on the wheel.
Gemeili Carreri relates, that when in China he travelled
withaTartar, who, every night, was obliged, in order to
procure ſleep, to deſire ſomebody to beat him ſorawhile on
the belly, as they do a drumz -
Hunger and the exceſs of food, fatigue' and reﬅ, and coo'l
and warm reſreſhrnents likewiſe produce ſleep z it is alſo the
reſult of the increaſe or decreaſe oſ the bloodvrunning in the ,
brain. , It is the eﬀect of bathing 'as well as bleeding: fever,
which 'cauſes inſomctnies, likewiſe Creatcs drowſineſs; a ſmall
diﬀerence in abdoſe of wine awakes 'or makes a man ſleep.
It would be an endleſs talk to ſum up all the various cauſen
which induce man to.that*ﬅate; whether becauſe theſe
_cauſes produce themſelves,ſior that many diﬀerent combina
tions are likewiſe capable of producing ﬁeep, or becauſe,
notwithﬅanding the ſeeming diﬀerence, the reſult is the
ſame. ' . ' \ ' *.
But in both caſes, one muﬅ confeſs that the means
productive oſ ſleep are inﬁnite; and that we are unable to
determine on their nature or quality. This conſideration
alone, doubtleſs, ſuﬃces to deﬅroy the improbability of' a
ſleep ariſing from Magneticalſeelings. . \ .
Thoſe means, which at ﬁrﬅ ſeem ſo extraordinary, ap
' * C ' ' pear
\
l
< 18 > *
pear far leſs marvellous when compared with others ﬅill
'more ﬅrange, concerning which, not cta doubt can be rea
'ſon'ably entertained, ſuch as thoſe as have juﬅ now been
inenſtidned. _
,_ The e'ﬃcaey of ſimply touching to create ſleep', ſeems be
ſides to be a neceſſary conſequence, ﬂowing from the general
law of nature, that'has deſigned the ﬁve ſenſesto ſerve as an
introduction to ſleep. Iſ touching could not produce it,
it would be'the only one deprived of that ſaculty.
Indeed, if we conſider but a moment the four other i
ſenſes, hearing, ſmelling, ﬁght and taﬅe, we ſhall perceive
-in them as many conductors to ſleep. No one can deny but
'the ear is a very eﬃcacious way to ſleep: the noiſe of a mill,
ſithe murmur of a "river, the ſpouting oſ waters, a lingering
converſation, the mono'to'ny of the voice, a ſlow and melan
choly muſic organize the body, more or leſs quickly, in a
manner ſit for ſleep. ' *
The ſmell of aromatical and 'narc'OtiCal' plants occaſions a
' drowſineſs, and ſome ehymiﬅs have in their works given the
'receipt oſ ſoinniſerOUS elſences, which criminals have o'ften
abuſed. -
e Taﬅe is another introductor to ſleep, and medicine eﬅa
bliſhes thoſe means in adminiﬅering narcotical phyſics,
'either to procure ſleep 'to thoſe whonaturally Want it, or to
render patients inſenſible'to painful operations.
It is to be obſerved that'moﬅ of the'drugs productivc of
that eﬀect, diſplay their power, before they have 'been de
compoſed in the ﬅomach, even before they a're Come doWn
[to it, merely by contract oſ the palate, or tongue; which
'plainl ſhews that ſuchan eﬀect belongsAto the taﬅe.
La "ly, the ſight is 'no leſs productive of ſleep. Toobrigh't
a light, by inviting ſhe eYelids to ſhut themſelves, inſenſibly
cneourages and cauſesſleep. ' ' '* '
It is alſo well _knovvn how far reading contributes to in'
'vite ſleep. Many people never reſiﬅ that impreſſion, and even
they make, Upon becanOn, a ſure reſourCe'of it.
, And it muﬅ not be ſaid that ſleep is then the eﬀect of
tediouſneſs, ſince ſleep is, for the n'ioﬅ'part, inVoluntary,
ſia'nd comes on in the middle of the intereﬅing lectures we
'could hear other people deliver, Withdutv'ſeeling the leaﬅ
'propenſity to Keep. '
It is then, doubtleſs, ﬁght, whieh_in 'that caſe, ſerves
. as a vehicle to ſleep. ' '* - *
' From
"( 19 )
From whence it follows, that it. is clearly pgoved that
ſleep comes in through ﬁve of our ſenſes z now that obſer
vation naturally leads us to think that touching is endowed
with the like power, ecauſe the conﬅantuniformity which
is viſible in all nature does not permit us to ſuppoſe that
ſenſe alone would have been made particular exception oſ.
Moreover, a little reﬂection will ſhew that the above fa
culty ought to belong to feeling more ſpecially than any other
ſenſe. It is agreed, that, generally ſpeaking, there is but
one ſenſe, which is feeling, and that the other four are only
a modiﬁeation of it.
The ſight, hearing, taﬅe and ſmelling produce no ſenſa
tion in us but through the means oſ contact. The light,
ſound, ſavours and ſmell only act upon us by ſhaking the
nervous tufts of our organs, and ſuch a ſhaking can never be
obtained before they have touched them. This is an uncon
trovertible truth. -
Fecling, properly ſo called, only diﬀers from other ſenſes
by its great energy and vaﬅ extent. The other ſenſes occu
py but a very narrow place, and are only ſuſceptible of a lo
cal impreſſion ; but feeling, by experience, is ſpread over all
the ſurſaee of the body: and this is ſuﬃcient to ſhew that
feeling ought to enjoy, in a ſuperior manner, the ſaculty of
opening a way to ſleep: for being the chief ſenſe, and almoﬅ
to ſay the principal one, from which the others are derived,
how is it poſſible to conceive it deprived of a power whic
the ſubordinate ſenſes are endowed with P- \
Laﬅly, it is ſo certain that ſleep is introduced by feeling,
that the ſaculty preſcribe opium taken in topic and applied
to the ſkin, which really produces ſleep.- The touching *
of an organized body may then, Without any marvel, occa
ſion ſleep; and it.is the point I want to clear and anſwer
fully the objection oſ improbability. But, will they ſay,
ſuppoſing the Magnetiſers to be endowed with the power of
producing ſleep, there is not the like reaſon to lead us to
think that they can likewiſe produce Somnambuliſm P
vThe anſwer is plain and obvious.
C 2 Somnam
_ * We may even recollcct on that account the manner of touching
made uſe 0ſ_in lndia, h_v which means ſla'es procure ſleep torheir
'nallers 5 Which is called Mtſſerſi
(* 20 )
Somnambuliſm itſelf is nothing elſe but a mere modi-z
ﬁcation of ſleep. ct There is no Somnambuliſm without
ſleep. _ *
We might even add that there is no ſleep without Som
nambuliſm, and that every man is born a Somnambule.
This propoſition, which is apparently a paradox, is no
leſs inconteﬅable, provided too much extent is not allowed
to the meaning of the word Somnambule. Perfect ſleep
is a time of reﬅ, during which, ſenſations are reduced to a.
ſtate of concentration," which diſcovers ſecmingly no 'other
ſign of life but rcſpiration and the motion of the pulſe. ſſ
Imperfect ſleep is that in which ſuch a concentration is n0_t
complete, ſo that it ﬅill leaves ſome acceſs for the interior
Siſplay of organs. We ſeldom enjoy the former kind of
_ eep.
In a found and natural ſleep, the perſon whoſe mental
powers were gbſolutcly in ſuſpenſion, preſerves ﬅill a more
or leſs active portion of watching, by the means of which
divers motions are performed: Who does not know that
during our very ſleep, the body is agitated and combines
itſelf, in order to chuſe an advantageous poſition 3 the hand
is continually aﬃﬅing the ' incommoded parts, properly
adjuﬅs the bed clotheA deﬅroysct'inſects, &e. All theſe
things doubtleſs belong to the watch, and of courſe conﬅi
_tuſſte a kind of Somnambuliſm. For we muﬅ comprehend,
under that denomation, the exerciſe of every motion what;
ever occaſioned dUring ſleep. ſi ſi ' '
Moﬅ men carry ſtill farther the eﬀects of Sqmnambuliſm,
ſince there are many people Who ſpeak during their ſleep',
make'diﬀerent geﬅures, hold diſcourſes of a conſiderable
length, addreſs thoſe whom they think themſelves in comz
Pany with, get out oftheir beds and in again, &c. '
So' common are ſuch practices, that they are to be met
with almoﬅ in'every houſe. - ' '
' Whenever Somnambuliſm acquires a more extended pene
tration, it Produces wonderful things. '
ſi Then the ſleeper is ſeen writing, working, opening the
doors, lighting the ﬁre, aſcending the tops oſ houſes, ſwim
ming ov'er rivers, currying horſes, &e. N
But you muſt obſerve that Somnambuliſm in this laﬅ de
gree is no new ﬅate, nor contrary to thect' nathre of ſleep; it
is ﬁngl a reinſoctrced modiﬁcation of a ﬅate natural to man
'and inherent to ſleep ; which naturally leads us back to the
- ſi* - following
(al )
. nied his ſleep.
Nolio'w-ing propoſition, '5 That every ſleeper is in the corn
mencement of Somnambuliſm 3" that whoever gives him
ſelf up to ſleep is in a near ﬅate of Somnambuliſm, which
is to diſplay itſelf in a more or leſs ﬅriking manner, ac- r
cording to the phyſical conﬅitution of the ſleeper, the na
ture of his diﬅemper, and eſpecially according to the diﬀe
rent cauſes which have produced, preceded," or accompaz
From . thence it is eaſily' conceived tlut a ſick perſon
already inclined, either by his conﬅitution, or the nature
of his diſeaſe, to a Somnambuliſm in its juvenile ﬅate, is
liable to receive with Magnetical ſleep a greater determina
tion towards Somnambuliſm. ' '
Is ſuch a ﬅate uſeſul in curing the diſeaſe ? Such a queſ-_
tion is not now to be diſcuſſed. Whether somnambuliſm
be ſalutary or not, it is however certain, that it is a depen
J dent on ſleep, introduces itſelf with it, and ought conſe
quently to predominate more or leſs.
There are people whoſe Magnetical drowſineſs is attend
ed by no very ﬅriking ſigns of Somnambuliſm, who are
only- drowſy, and poſſeſs a continual ſomnolency not inſen
ſible to any thing that may be tranſacted round them.
Others 'are only \dYOWſY for a ſhort time, their awake,
and fall again into a ﬅate of drowſineſs. -The nuances are
inﬁnitely multiplied from the very ſleepcrs, who diſplay
nothing but what uſually appears in a' common ſleep to
thoſe who perform the wonderful things ſo much ſpoken
of in all the world. ' '
It is thoſe very ſimarvels that remain to be' explained : for
having fully proved that Magnetical proceedings, or a con
tact graduate and combined according to principlesycan pro
duce' ſleep and then Somnambuliſm ; I ſhall be obliged to
reduce Magnetiſm to that rule which is already known.
But the Animal Magnetiſm's adverſaries will not fail to ob- *
ject that Magnetical Somnambuliſm extends ﬅill further,
by oﬀering the ſpectacle of a Somnambuliſm of Which we
can have no idea, is attended with phoenomena never be-_
fore obſerved in natural Somnambuliſmſi.
ſſ Such is the laﬅ ailegation, which ſerves\as a refuge to the
incredulity'of thoſe who never ſaw any Somnambule, and
the diſbelief of them who had it in their power to ſee and
be convinced. But it will, in a moment, be deemed ſur
priﬁng, to obſerve that Magnetical Somnambuliſm hashno.
'* t. ing
, ſſ=(22)
thing ſuperior to the eﬀects of nat'ural Somnambuliſmzſ
that, on t..e contrary, it exactly agrees with the phoeno
mena of the latter ﬅate, which is nothing more than a
mere diſcovery; and ſuchſſa conſideration might be, by
many people, looked on as a Victorious argument in ſavour
of Magnctical Somnambuliſm. - v
ARTICLE ad. Magnetical Somnambuliſm's phoenomena,
far from being inconceivable, are, on the contrary, a neceſ
ſary confequence of Somnambuliſm. ' ' 1
According to the virulent declamations thrown out
againﬅ Magnetical Somiiaml'uliſm, repreſenting it as a baſe
and deceitful trick, unworthy the leaﬅ credit, it would be
natural to ſuppoſe that ſuch Phocnomena are without prei
ccdents, and only concentered in Magnetical Somnambu
Iiſin. _
Such is the prevalenſit opinion with the public, even
among the ſenſible part, compoſed oſ people no leſs re.
markablc for their virtues than their learning; but who,
not being familiar with phyſiological phoenomena, muﬅ:
neceſſarily have adopted that way of thinking. ,
Thoſe very perſons might, perhaps, have had a diﬀerent
opinion on tiat matter, if it had been in their power to
know that there exiﬅs in nature a ﬅate abſolutely the ſame
as that given out merely as a feigned one 5 and, that, the
ſame phoenomena, which are, in the one, pronounced to
be chimerical, impoſſible and inadmiſſible, are, in the
other looked, upon ctas incontcﬅable, and certainly beyond
any manner of doubt.
Such a circumﬅance makes a material diﬀerence; for
they only refuſe to give credit to' the phoenomena of Mag
netical Somnambuliſm, becauſe reaſon will hardly admit
of ſacts by which it is hurt, and which' are grounded on i
no precedents.
But if credit ought to be given to natural Somnambu- '
liſm, the ſame muﬅ be, granted to Magnetical Somnambu
liſm; for, it being proved that thoſe phoenomena really
exiﬅ with regard to one of theſe two ſpecies of Somnam
buliſm, it would be to contend for contradiction's ſake
only, to deny the poſſibility of their exiﬅenoe in the other.
We muﬅ then neceſſarily know that there exiﬅs a ﬅate
of natural Somnambuliſm, acknowledged and awarded by
the faculty, during which,- ſleepers execute things impoſ
,ſible for any man awake-to perform. i
' \ > Without
1
(23)
Without entering into a detail oſ the ſingularities alrea
dy obſerved on that account, I ſhall only mention t'he
'phoenomena perfectly analogous to thoſe obſerved among
Magnetical Somnambules. . ' -
Nothing is more common than to ſee Magnetical Som
namhules walk, go towards other people, ſpeak to them,
come back to their places, take a book, paper, i-nlc, in a
word, perform a prodigious number of things which ſup
ports the idea of perfect reaſon and ſenſe. *-_ -
Thus is the public'juﬅly incenſed when any one pre
ſumes to inſinuate, that ſuch perſons are inot in a ﬅate of
'ﬂeep, and that they neither ſee nor hear through their
'uſual organs. _
Some of 'thoſe Somnambules 'having their eyes open,
the ſpectators naturally thought they muﬅ make uſe of
them, and the faculty themſelves have ridiculed this re
,ct tenſion, a That people could ſee without 'the uſe of t eir
a eyes, and having their eyes open, could not make uſe o
V them."r ' z
But, unhappily for them, ſuch a puſillanimous obſerva
tion loſes much oſ its ﬅrength, when we conſider vthat
even our learned have conſecrated that very truth in one
vof their books,'calculated to teach poﬅerity the actual ﬅate
of our knowledge. Opcn the Encyclopedia, and at the
'word Somnambule, you may read literally thus :
' V People ﬅruck with Somnambuliſm, given up to a.
U ſound ſleep, walk, talk, write and perform many other
V actiOns as if they were awake; nay, even ſometimes
'U with more diſcernment and exactitude;" and afterwards,
4' Some Somnambules have'their eyes opm, but (lo not
Jﬀſecm to make uſe oſ them."
The learned conſequently (for EneycloPedia is their
work) are convinced plainly to believe, with Magnetiſers,
that it is 'poſſible to ſee without the eyes aﬃﬅance, and that
though the Somnambule has his eyes open [Je a'aer not make
ct aﬅ
them. , '
- Magnetiſers have often obſerved, that Magnetical Som
' nambuliſm diſplayed in 'many patients a Wonder-ful ſubtlety of
"ſight, ſo far that they diſcern ver'y delicate objects 'through a
3bandage, or any other intermediate body. ' ' A
That propoſition, 'has 'not 'been- more 'favourably re
ceived. ' *
ſi -* They
( 74 * )
They have laughed at the ſtory of a Magrieticaﬃommm'
hule, who had written when his eyes were covered with-a
head-band, and corrected words, eraſed letters to ſubﬅitute'
others, upon or near them.z > ſſ
They ſa'id ſuch a thing ſhould be ſeen beſore it was be'
lieved ; and even after having real-ly ſeen it, they ſuſpectcd
the good faith of the Somnambule, ſo extraordinary the
event appeared. A
But how could they forget thatour learned had before
hand prepared us to believe thoſe phoenomena, by pre'-*
ſenting them to us, as a neceſſary c'onſequence from Som
nambuliſm.> 4' If you follow a Somnambule," ſays the al
ready quoted article, " it is eaſy to perceive, that his
'6 ſleep, ſo much alike when he is awake, oſfers a p'rodiſi
V gious number oſ wonderful things. Truth itſelf becomes
U incredible." i _
The author deſpiſing the. exaggerations often attending
on ſuch ﬅories, has only referred " to n'otorious ſacts, of
U which the truth cannot even be ſuſpected." ,
It is after ſuch a preamble, that he relates the ﬅory of a
young Somnambule, a clergyman and fellow-ſtudent of the
Archbiſhop of Bourdeaux. That Prelate uſed to go every
night in that Somnambule's room, as ſoon as he thought
him aſleep. He remarked in particular, that the perſon
got up, took paper, compoſed and wrote ſermons. YVhe-n'
he had ﬁniſhed a page, he read it over, and repeated it
very loud; iſ, adds the author, that action was done with
out the eyes aſliﬅance, can it be called reading P
The ſame clergyman with his eyes ſhut compoſed mu
ſic; a cane ſerved him as a compaſs; with it he traced, at
an equal diſtance, the ﬁve neceſſary lines, put in' their
ſtead the ' Key, Flat, Sharp, then marked the 'notes which
vhe had ﬁrﬅ done all white; and when he had finiſhed, in
ftaking up again every one of them, he. made them Had',
.þ ſuch as ſhould have been ſo, and wrote the words under. *
lt once happened that he wrote them with too large
rlmraﬂerx, ſo that they were not placed directly under their.
'-eorrcſponding notes; he ſoon perceived his miſtake (with
_out the aﬃﬅance of his eyes) and in, order to mend it, lie
eraſed what he had juſt-done, by paſſing hislhand over,
and made again lower 'that muſical line with all poſſible
preciſion. ct \ .
The
( 25 )
The Ptelate to whom we are indebted for theſe particu
lars,.having placed himſelf before the Somnambule to be
enabled to follow him_ with more application, obſerved a
very wonderful circumﬅance: The young clergyman hav
in put in ſome place of his ſermon the words, tl:i.r divine
i'gzmt, perceived in reading it over again, that theſe two
words made a diſagreeable diſſonance, and ſubﬅituted the *
epithet cider-able inﬅead of the word divine; but that altera
tion leſt an imperfection in the phraſe, becauſe there was
ce adarnble erzfzmt; the Somnambule perceiving the error,
very dexteroutly added a t after ce, ſo that it was written cet
adamlzle Mzﬂmf. A
Whenever the Somnambule read or corrected what he
had written, he took care to put his ﬁngers on the charac
ters that were not yet dry; he made a digreſſion to avoid
rubbing them: a caution he never took when the letters
were_not wet. - .
It is to be obſerved that the Prelate, in order poſitively
t'o know' whether he made any uſe of laft tyﬁ, had imagined
to put a pzzﬅe-[zoard under bit noſe ,- and it was in that poſiti
on he continued the operations above-mentioned. _
' There are facts certiﬁed in the Eneyclopedia itſelf,
equally notorious, andabove all contradiction; which is
no doubt ſuﬃcient evidently to prove one of theſe two*
points, viz. That the Somnambule can ſee without the
zſſzﬅance qfliir'eyer, or that his ﬁght, exalted to an incon
ce'ivable degree, pierces through his eyelids and the opam
cous bodies. - '
ct The memorials of the Academy of Sciences, and the
phyſicians works, contain a prodigious number oſ obſerva
tions which plainly conﬁrm the facts hinted, and Others of
the ſame nature. When an explanation of ſuch a ſingulari
ty is demanded, they all unite to acknowledge the weakneſs
of our comprehenﬁon, and exhort us to admire what we
cannot underﬅand. . What Encyclopedia ſays on that. ac
count well deſerves to be related. ,
V H0w is it poſſible," ſays he," that a man buried in
V aſimnd ſleep ſhould hear, walk, write, or ſee 3 in a word,"
V enjoy the exerciſe of all his ſenſes, and perform divers
1' motions with exactneſs and preciſion P *
' '5 We muﬂ: freely own there exiﬅ many things, the
a reaſon of which we are quite ignorant of, and
D " which
\
'(26)
V which wc cannot penetrate into, nature has its myﬅe
'N ries." \
The author of the ſame article, after having mentioned
many ſurpriſing ſacts, which he aſſertslas inconteﬅable,
\maltes a judicious ſarcaſm againﬅ thoſe pretenders in point
of learning, who believe nothing but what they can account
"for, and will not for a moment ſuppoſe, that there are in
nature myﬅeries ' impenctrable' to their fagacity. Let us
now obſerve the dangerous eﬀect of prejudice.
Vſhenever the ſame phoenomena are repeatedﬁby a Mag
netical Somnambule, it is i'nſinuatcd thoſe concerned in
them uſe deceit and fraud, becauſe ſuch phoenomena are
contrary to all received. notions, and have no inﬅance in
' nature to authoriſc a' belief. But how is it poſſible to re
concile ſuch a reclamationv with the various examples which
have juﬅ now been quoted ? _ '
' One of the chief objections againﬅ Magneticalþomnam
buliſm is, becauſe it oﬀers both contradictiom and im'mze
quence: with that pretended ſubtlety of both ſenſe and feel;
me.
bIt has been obſerved that thoſe Somnambules, ſo diſ
cerning with regard to certain objects, were altogether in:
ſcnſible oſ others._ *
, i
For example, ſuch a man who dexterouﬂy croſſes a row 1
of chairs without touching them, and writes or reads through
'a paﬅe-board, ſhall not ſee whether there are pecﬁﬂe round
him 3 he will take one thing for another, and ſhall not
_ perceive the fraud impoſed on him. . r
But natural Somnambuliſm's example fully ' anſwers that
objection, and the ſuppoſed contradiction, far from being
an argument againﬅ the reality of Magnetical. Somnambu
liſm, better eitabliſhe's its veracity, ſince it preſents a de
gree of reſemblance more conſiﬅent with natural Somnam
buiiſm. ' -
The natural Somnambule of Encyclopedia well ſaw his
paper and letter through a paﬅe-board, and yet could not
ſee the very perſdn who was. placed before him, buſily'
employed in examining his motions.
' 'ſhe ſame Somnambule imagining he was walking/on
the border of a river, thoughthe ſaw a child falling into
thewater ; immediately he precipitates himſelf on his bed,
' making
lt____
i 27 y
making the 'ſame 'geﬅures as a man ſwimming, and after'
having much moved and fatigued himſelf, ﬁnding the bed -
clothes in a heap, he ſuppoſes it the child, takes it up with
one hand and employs the other to return, by ſwimming
on ſhore 5 when he thinks himſelf there, he lays himſelf
on the bed, and rattles his teeth, conveying the appearance
of a man quite wet and cold ; he then aſks the byﬅanders'
for a glaſs of brandy to warm him, and as 'they were giv
ing him a glaſs of water he perceived the trick, and inſiſt
ed on having brandy, which, as 'ſoon as he has got, he ea
gerly drinks it, declaring, at the ſame time that it does himl
good. _ a
By that example it is evident 'that 'the Somnambule;
though deceived by the ſight and feeling, had his taﬅe
ſound and perfect, ſince he well knew how to diſcern'
brandy from water. ſſ ſi'
i Such contradictions'being hereditary to natural Somnam
bules, they ſhould not be looked upon as extraordinary in
- Magnetical Somnambules, ſince both Somnambuliſms are
derived from a ſecret (diſpoſition which, likely, are very
near' the ſame. ' *
I had many times an opportunity of ſeeing myſelf
ſuch contradictions, which at ﬁrﬅ produced in me a great
ſidiﬃdence, becauſe I was not then well acquainted with the
ſingu'larities inherent to Somnambuliſm. ' ,,
Two years ago being at the Marguis of Puyﬂgur's I or
vctdered a Magnetical 'Somnambuleo whom he ſhewed mc_,_
to take a hat which was lying on a table 'in the cloſet, and.
to go and put it on vthe head of ſome of the company.
' I did not expreſs my com'mand Lin ſpeaking, but only by
ſſi'gn in tracing the line which I gave him to run over,
and at the end of which was the hat. The Somnambule,
(whoſe eyes were covered with a paﬅe-board) got up from
his chair, follows the direction ſhewn with my "ﬁnger, ad
vances towards the table, and takes the hat amidﬅ many
other objects that were on the ſame table; but before'he *
preſented it to the perſon, thinks it civil to bruih it 5' and
_ though there was no bruſh On the table, he makes the geſ
ture of a man who took one;v vand holding the hat with his
left hand, he bruſhes it on the three ſides with his right
hand, puts the imaginary bru'ſh on the table, and carries
' ' ' I) 2 ct the
\
\ (ati)
ctthe hat, placing it on the head of the indicated perſon._
Though that Somnambule had perfectly fulﬁlled my inten
tion, I conceived ſome diﬃdence on account of the circum
ﬅance of the bruſh.
How could that man whoſe ſight and feeling were ſeem
ing perfectly ſound, not perceive there was no bruſh on the
table l How could he miﬅake himſelf ſo far as to think he
had one in his hand P
From thence I inferred, that having committed ſo groſs
and palpable a miﬅake, he was far from having the feeling
and ſight- as ſubtile as they would give to underﬅand, and
that there 'was in the reﬅ of his operations more addreſs than
fair practice. . \
The Magnctical Somnambulcs, whom I have ſince ſeen,
have all given me reaſon for the ſame diﬃdence, by diſplay
ing contradictions of the ſame nature.
But how great was my ſurpriſe, when, after having con
ſulted the works, memorials, and relations made on Som
ct nambuliſm, Iobſerved the ſame contradictiom in natural
Somnambules, and that they were alſo an object of great
aﬅoniſhment to ſpe-Ilators; ſo what at ﬁrﬅ ſeemed to me
a motive of ſuſpicion, became at laﬅ a new reaſen to ground
my perſuaſion. ſ' hVhat is inconceivable," ſays Pigutti,
an Italian doctor, (ſpeaking of Somnambules) f' is, that,
5' on certain occaſions their ſenſaLions are very ſubtile,
4' whilﬅ, on others they are very impenetrable."
I ſaw in the ſame work an inſinite number of other Som
'nambules, which, after having at ﬁrﬅ ſhewn a wonderful
ſubtlety of ſenſation, ſeemed the next moment to he entirely ſ
deprived of them, by taking one thing for another, and
confounding the objects which could claim' no analogy to
one another. '
The moﬅ aﬅoniſhing Somnambule that ever'exiﬅed, is,
without a doubt', j'o/m Baptﬄ Ncgrctti, who was both fol
lowed and cloſely examined during ﬁve ſucceſſive nights, by_
a vaﬅ number of people. Mr. Pigatti, * who was preſent at
thoſe experiments, has given an exact and preciſe account
of them, whichis ſound in the Journal Etra/Igcr, March
1756.
That Somnambule, having his eyes cloſely ſhut,ſſtook
ſnuﬀout of a box preſented to him, came down many large
ﬅair:
4
(29)
ﬅairs without groping, heſitation, or even touching, turn- ſi
ing and ﬅopping preciſely where he ſhould; placed bot
tles, and glaſſes on a ſmall pillar which was in his way;
went and came into the diﬀerent apartments without run
ning againﬅ any thing; ﬅopped at doors which were ſhut,
and opened them ; went to draw water from the well,
took out of the buﬀetþ napkins, towels, knives, and gene-v
rally all that was neceſſary for a table z and performed ma
ny other things no leſs ſurpriſing, too tedious to relate,
but-which all ſuppoſe an exquiſite ſubtlety in the ſight and
feeling. .
Next to this, are to be ſcen miﬅakes, which quite con
tradict that perfection in the ſenſes. a After having looked
for a light, the Somnambule imagincs he has a candle in'
his hand z without perceiving his' error, he thinks he holds
a'candleﬅick whilﬅ it is only a bottle; he helps himſelf
with that pretended light by carrying it along with him ;
he draws near the chimney to dry a wet towel, though
there is no ﬁre ; he ſalutes the ladies and gentlemen in
whoſe company he imagines himſelf, whilﬅ there is not any
ſuch perſon as he ſuppoſes among thoſe that ſurround him.- .
' He goes to the public-houſe, thinking to be accompanied
by a comrade, though there is not ſuch a thing; he pours
him ſome drink, addreſſes him, and drinks his health, with- '
out perceiving he is alone. When 'buſy in eating a ſallad,
they take his plate away to ſubﬅitute a diſh of cabbages im
bibed with Vinegar and Cinnamon, unknown to him: they
take the laﬅ diſh to ſerve him with a plate of raw fritters,
and he. continues to eat; they give him water, inﬅead of
wine; at laﬅ ſomebody jeﬅingly rubbing his legs with a
cane, he takes it for the beating of a dog which he ſupe
poſes near him ; he falls in a paſſion againﬅ the dog, looks
for him, endeavours to beat him, goes and fetches a whip
to chaﬅiſe him : after having returned with the whip, ſome _
of the ſpectators throw a muﬀ at him -, then imagining to
lay hold of the dog, he beats him with violenc.
There are contradictions to explain that which ﬅruck
me ſo forcibly in the Somnambule of the Marquis Of
Puyſhgur, on account of the imaginary bruſh he thought he
held.
' There are an inﬁnite number of other examples which
might be quoted, and which all tend fully to maniſeﬅ that
' inequality
(3<>)
inequality of ſenſatſion's and ſenſibility obſerved in the ſeve
'ral Somnambules, 4
The Library of Medicine, vol. x. p. 477. mentions a
Somnambule, who getting out of his bed at mid-night,
went tſio a neighbouring decayed houſe, and of which but,
little remained, ſaving the bare walls and ſome pieces of
timber. '
The Somnambule mounted to the very top of that houſe,
and jumped from one beam 'to another, though there was
under a profound abyſs.
In the ſame work is related a ﬅory of another Somnam;
hule, who, in the night time dreſſed himſelf, put on his
boots and ſpurs, and then leapt on the bordcr of a window
five ﬅories high, which he miﬅook for his horſe, and in
that poﬅure agitated himſelf with all the geﬅures of a cava
Iier who rides poﬅ.
In the two laﬅ inﬅances, there is an incxplicable aſſoci
ation of the moﬅ perfect penetration, with the greateﬅ
itupidity. How a man, who had addreſs enough to climb
ſup the top of a decayed houſe, and run on a 'few weak
beams, could not perceive the profound abyſs which lay
under? and how he, who dreſſed himſelf as a cavalier, put
on his boots' and ſpurs, could take the border of a window
for a horſe? To explain thoſe ſingularities, the principle of
Somnambuliſm, and that want of organizarion which at
that moment took place in the individual, ſhould 'be 'better
known. ſi . '
That induces Mr. Relwelz'ni, a celebrated Italian doctor,
author of many obſervations on Somnambuliſm, to ſay, that
we ought to content ourſelves with admiring the wonderful
eﬀects of that condition which Providence ſeems to preſent
to the learned, 'in order to conſound them, "and ſhew the
narrow compaſs of human underﬅanding.
The apparent immobility and inſenſibility of Magnetica'i
Somnambules, for whatever is faid or tranſacted round
.them, is alſo experienced in 'natural Somnambules. He
whomI juﬅ now ſpoken of, was quite inſenſible to the
approach of a candle, which almoﬅ burnt his eyebrows.
There is likewiſe in the memorials of the Academy of
Sciences for the year 1742, p. 4o"9, a diſſertation of Mr.
de Savage de la (II-eir: on the Somnambuliſin of a girzfrom
' ' ' lont- .
, (31)
Montpellier', exhibiting a ﬅriking inﬅance of the like in-y
ſenﬁbility:
(5
r.
(ſ
ſ'
Jct
(ſ
'ſ
C a
(cſi
(i
iA
it
'i
(I
ſd
it'
(6
ſi
(I
(ſ
(I
(ſ
(6
(ſ
ſ'
I '\
(ſ
(6
ce
ſſu
Iſ
u
- V On the 5th of April, 1757," ſays the author, i' when
I viſited the hoſpital at ten o'clock in the morning I found
the patient in Bed; * > \ ,
'5 She began to ſpeak with a degree of vivacity and wit,
which ſhe never ſhewed when out of that ﬁtuation 5 ſhe
changed now and then her diſcourſe, and ſeemed to ad
dreſs many oſ her friends who were. aﬂembling round
her bed ; what ſhe httered ſeemed to bear ſome analogy
with what ſhe ſaid in her attack of the preceding day,
wherein having verbatim related an inﬅruction, in the
way of a'catechiſm, which ſhe heard the day before, ſhe
made ſome moral and malicious application-s to the peo
-ple of the houſehwhom ſhe took care to mention under
ﬁctitious names, accompanying the whole with geﬅures
and motions of her eyes, which ſhe had opened: in a
word, with all the circumﬅances attending on the ac
tiondone the,- day before; and yet ſhe was in a ſound
ſleep. It was a very awarded circumﬅance which no one
doubted; but foreſeeing I could never preſume to aſcer
.tain' it, unleſs I had previouſly rendered ſome formal ex
periments, I made them on her ſenſes and organs vvhilﬅ
ſhe was in the act of ſ eaking.
V At ﬁrﬅ, as the girl ad her eyes' open, I thought that'
diﬂimulation, if there was any in 'the caſe, could not
withﬅand a ſlap on the hand, or one given ſuddenly on
the face ; but this repeated experiment did not either
occaſion the leaﬅ grimace or interrupt her diſcourſe: I
had recourſe to another experiment, which was to put
briſkly my ﬁnger to her eye', and to approach a lighted
wax candle near enough to burn her eye-brows; 'out
ſhe did not even twinkle on the occaſion. .
" Secondly', a hidden perſon made ſuddenly a great
noiſe in the girl's ear, and repeated it with a ﬅone againﬅ
the bolﬅer oſ her bed : at any other time ſhe would have
been trembling with fear, but then ſhe appeared perfect
ly indiﬀerent and inſenﬁble to what paſſed.
" Thirdly, I poured in her eyes 'and mouth ſome bran
dy, and ſpirit of animoniac-ſalt; Ieven applied on the
horny tuuicle of the eye, 'a feather's beard, then the end
0. '
a of
(32)
" of my ſinger, but in Vain z Snuﬀ blown up her noſe,
" pricking with pins, and ﬁngers extorted, had on her the
" ſame eﬀect as on a mere machine; ſhe never gave the
'3 leaﬅ ſign of ſentiment." 1
_ The loth vol. oſ the Medicine's library contains a me
morial on a female Somnambule, ctWho was inſenſible to the
blows ſhe received with a whip on her naked ſhoulders;
'one day they rubbed her back with honey, and in that con
* dition expoſed her in the ſun's meridian to the ﬅinging'oſ
bees, which occaſioned a great number of bliﬅers on her'
body,_without ſhewing the leaﬅ motion in the world : but
when ſhe awoke, ſhe ſeemed to ſuﬀer acute pain in the aſ
fected places, and bitterly complained of the hard uſage
and treament ſhe had met with. * . '
' Concerning that woman, I obſerved an intereﬅing cir
cumﬅance, which is perfectly conformable to what is now
paﬅ ;-_it'is becauſe the learned and other proſcſſors oſ me
dicine declined to go and verify the caſe o£ that ﬂeeper,
under the pretence that ſuch a ﬅate contradicted the noti
ons already received in phyſiology. ' '
The author oſ the relation thus expreſſes himſelf :
"" U The long ﬅay that woman' made at Louvain, gare
'U every body an dpportunity of ſeeing her, and ſcrupul
_ 'T ouſly examining ſo extraordinary a phmnomenon. The
i' ancient profeſlbrs_ in that vtown looking on the event as a
*< fable and mere chimera, could not take on themſelves to
" increaſe the number of ſpectators. It is thus," continues
the author, 'V that prejudice ihuts the eyes of men of the
'ſ ﬁrﬅ' merit, and hinders them from ﬅudying and applying
" themſelves to the diſcovery- of ſeveral things which might
U prove very beneſicial to monkind-Laﬅly," ſays the ſame
author, " the young proſeſſors and other phyſicians in the
" town, looking on this phoenomenon with an indiﬀerent
U eye, ſeriouſly enquired into the caſe of that ſleeper, and
V after a thorough inveﬅigation, had every reaſon to'be
i' fully ſatisﬁed." *
It will not be amiſs to obſerve, that the author oſ this
page is V a phyſician of the ſaculty at Paris."
Such an inſenſibility is true, for the noiſe which ſur
roands Magnetical Somnambules does not extend to eve
ry kind of noiſe, ſince the Somnambule preſerves the facul
tY
(33)
ty of hearing thoſe perſons with whom he is in analogy and
harmony.
, This diﬅinction has been deemed, by many, a mere ex
travagance, as it is not conceivable how, in the ſame in
dividual, a ſaculty could exiﬅ which lies open only to ſuch
a perſon, and open for all others.
- But that wonder, repugnant to reaſon, ﬁnds its analogy
in natural Somnambuliſm, wherein Somnambules are ſeen, '
who, though deaf to thundering noiſes and the voice of ſe
veral people, yet hear very well, and without the leaﬅ diſ
ﬁculty, another perſon with whom they keep an excluſive
relation, ſuch as patientr, nmﬅr, or others they have more
ſpecially approached, as a luſhand, wife, or children.
Theſe laſt have not only the facnlty of making themſelves
heard to a natural Somnambule, but even that of making
him ſhed.
This ſingularity is ſo very remarkable, that fnany authors
complain that certain perſons avail themſelves of ſuch a
circumﬅance to catch the ſecret of the Somnambule. It is
thus that begins the article Somnambule in Encyclopedia :
'5 Somnambules are frequently ſeen," ſays _that article,
5' who, in their ſleep relate whatever happened to them in'
V the' courſe of the day; ſome anſwer the queﬅions made
" them, and hold very conſiﬅent diſcourſes. There? are
U perſons ſo uncandid as to avail themſelves of the condi
" tion t ey are in, 'ſ to catch in ſpite of themſi' certain
* ſecrets which it is much their intereﬅ to conceal."
Obſerve well theſe expreſſions V to catch in ſpite of
V them." 'This plainly ſhews the acknowledgment oſ the
formal inﬂuence which certain perſons awake can exerciſe
over the Somnambule. \
But by ſimilarmeans and-proceedings can ſuch a relation
take place betwixt the perſon awake and the Somnambule P
a
Magnetiſers pretendyand inſmuate, that the relation is'
eﬅabliſhed by mere contact, by touching the Somnambule ct
in the extremities of his ﬁngers Or pulſe ; or by/touching,
in a like manner, any body elſe in relation with him ; which
preſents a kind of reſemblance with the loadﬅone.
' They have not failed in exclaiming againﬅ this aſſertion:
and when experience has ſeemingly convinced them of the
truth, a deceit las been ſuſpected on the part of the pre
tended Somnambuh. ſi E But
____4A_
A4__
*(,34) _
But to what purpoſe then have they recourſe to' that prea
tended reluctance, to admit of ſo ancient an eﬀect, and:
long ſince well known in the world P A proverbial expreſſion
traces us this opinion of old 3 for, it is well known that
moﬅ proverbs are but ſcattered remains of forgotten truths.
But as many perſons might refuſe ſuch authority, we
muﬅ furniſh them with a teﬅimony given out by the learn
ed themſelves, and which fully evinces the eﬃcacy of the
proceeding taught hIagnetiſers. -
Henry de Steerr, a Flemiſh phyſician, certiſies, that he
knew from his inſancy a Somnambule, who, during his
ſleep, performed wonderful things; among others, he re
lates that in the middle-of night, and during a moﬅ pro
found ſleep, he went an'd took his child out of the cradle
where he lay, and then walked over all the houſe, holding
the infant in his arms : his wiſe, who had accidentally per
ceived this, afraid of the child, followed her huſband ﬅep
by ﬅep, with an intent of aſſiﬅing them if occaſion requir
ed : or, as ſhe had obſerved that, in that ſituation her huſ
band anſwered all queﬅions ſhe put to him, and took the
freedom of interrogating him on the moﬅ ſecret things ſhe
wanted to know. -
The author obſerves that the, huſband was in day-time
very eircumſpect with his wife on his perſonal aﬀairs,
ivhich he aﬀected to conceal from her ; but being interro
gated by his wiſe, when in a ﬅate of Somnambuiiſm, and
'5 holding his child in his, arms," then, ſaid the author, he
plainly anſwered all the queﬅions put to him by his wife,
who followed him, and U then had nothing 'concealed ,
f' zfrom her," and was often ſurpriſed to hear her ſpeaking
of things which he thought were only known to himſelf.
Vide'Library of Medicine, vol. x. p. 463. \ .
z The teﬅimony of a reſpect-able author ſerves ﬁrﬅ to' con
ﬁrm that influence ſpoken of in the Ehcyelopedia, which
lies in certain perſons " to oblige the Somnambule to ſpeak
- fﬂ and declare thoſe very thing which it was his inte
ﬀ' reﬅ to conceal." It alſo conﬁrms the poſſibility of ﬁnding
out a means to eﬅabliſh a rdatiozz between the perſon who is
awake and the Somnambule. X ,
k The Somnambule we were ſpeaking of, was in no relation
4 With his wiſe, from the moment he entered into the ﬅate of
Somnambuliſm ;
(35)
Somnambuliſm ; to eﬅabliſhed. communication, it was neceſ
ſary he ſhould have had lyir rZvi/d in Zvz'r armr. Laﬅly, ob
ſerve, that the circumﬅance of having his child in his arms,
perfectly anſwers the proceedings pointed out by the Mag
netiſers. The child, placed in his father's arms, and on the
other handſupported by the hands of a trembling mother,
eﬅabliſheda relation between the huſband and wife, through '
the communication and analbgy he bore to each of them.
Thus, that aﬅoniſhing marvel, againﬅ which phyſicians
have ſo much inveighed as a mere chimera, a fable, a fraud, ,
has, long ago, been atteﬅed by one of their authors, who
conﬁrms in the moﬅpreciſe manner what Magnetiſers had ad
vanced.--It is eaſy to perceive that Magnetiſers, by putting
themſelves in harmony with 'Magnetical Somnambules, do
ſinothing elſe but procure themſelves that intimate analogy,
of which inﬅances are to be found in natural Somnambu
liſin, and into the principle of which they have neglected
to enquire. I
As to the faculty the Magnetiſers pretend to be 'endowed
with, to direct the Somnambule's motions, by making him
go from the right to the left, forwards and backwards; in
a direct and circulary line, after the manner of a loadſ'tone,
in the preſence of the Carupeas, that faculty is a' neceſſary
conſequence of what has been ſaid before 5 and after having v
'admitted and acknowledged the power V of making a Som
" nambule ſpeak againﬅ his will, and declare thoſe very
V things he has a material intereﬅ to conceal," ought not
have any great objection to admit the ſaculty of directing
his motionsn ' ſi *
An inﬅance quoted by Kaau Boerhaave, will aﬀord an'
idea of the aﬅoniſhing ſubjection which a man is liable to
with regard to another perſon with whom he is in aﬃnity. >
That author ſpeaks of a man who had the, whim quickly
to enter in aﬃnity with all thoſe whom he approached.
After a few moments, his body acquired a ſympathetical
ﬂexibility which forced him to imitate, with preciſion and;
rapidity, all the motions he perceived in the perſon he had
ﬁxed upon, as, 4' to move his eyes, lips, hands, arms,
" feet, to cover or uncover his head, walk, Eve." and all
this in ſpite of himſelf, and through the inﬂuence of a ſu
perior force, which prompted his ſympathetical organs to
act with thoſe of others. X
E 2 It
l
(36)
It was an amuſement to hold his hands in the preſence
ofſſ any one who happened to make geﬅures, and then he
was extremely agitated, continually ﬅruggling and endea
vouring to ſet himſelf at liberty.
If any kind oſ ſenſation was required of him, he was in
t'ioſe moments conﬅrained, and anſwered he had the head
or heart ach.
Boerhaave adds, that in conſequence of that odd kind of
organization, he was obliged to go in the ﬅreet with hisv
eyes cloſely ſhut, and that he was a very troubleſome mem
ber of ſociety.
The example of ſuch a ſympathetical ſenſibility may ſerve
to diminiſh the improbability, of the aﬃnity and relation
which Animal Magnetiſm ſeems to eﬅabliſh between the .
patient and the Magnetiſer; and it is on that account that
Kaau Boerhaave certiﬁes, that a man can, by the means of
ſuch an aﬃnity well eﬅabliſhed, become '5 a god for another
" man," by making him ſubſervient to his will and plea
ſure. Sit [sum liamimſi Dew eﬅ. ,
_\Ve read in the work of the Marquis de Puyſegur, enti-.
fled, '5 Memorials to ſerve for eﬅabliſhing Animal Mag
" netiſm," many obſervations of that nature, concerning -
the putients he had put in a ﬅate of Somnambuliſm.
The very ﬁrﬅ perſon, whom, to his great aﬅoniſhment
he put in that ﬅate, was in ſuch' perfect aﬃnity with him,
that he exactly followed all his motions, and loudly repeat- .
ed every air which the Marquis internally ſang.
That ſingularity Which at ﬁrﬅ. appeared incredible, ac
quires notwithﬅanding the high character of the author) a
new d gree of authority from the above related examples,
aid the teﬅimony of the authors, who have ſpoken of that
kind of ſympathetical inﬂuence, .
The proceedings made uſe of by Magnietiſers ſmd likewiſe
their analogy and authority in natural Somnambuliſm.
Mr. Figarti was uſed to put an end to the ﬅate of So'm
nambuliſm, by lightly paſſing the extremity of his fingersv
over the Somnambule's eye-lids. It is exactly the method
uſed by lwſagnetiſers. We read in the work oſ the Marquis
de Puyſegur, that he made, at ſihis pleaſure, a patient
change his converſation, by deterringhim from ſad objects,
' and
/
( 37. )'
and 'preſenting him with ſome of a more conſoling nau
ture, .
'4 When I thought," ſays the author, that his thoughts
U ought to aﬀect him in a diſagreeable manner, I ﬅopped
'ſ him, and tried to inſpire him with agreeable ones,
(5 which I eaſily did, and then ſaw him perfectly pleaſed,
ſ' and imagining that he either aimed at ſome prize, or
" danced at an entertainment. I united thoſe thoughts in
V * him, and by that means forced him to move himſelf in
" his chair, as in imitation of dancing, See." - -Z
Thoſe phoenomena have been ſuſpected, though they are
fully conﬁrmed by the Encyclopedia in the article of Som
nambule. _ -
The author of that article, relating a number of wonder
_ſ_ul* facts in the Somnambule mentioned, continues thus:
U The ſame Somnambule has furniſhed us with a great
" number of extraordinary facts : but thoſe which I have
V related are ſuﬃcient to my purpoſe.. I ſhall therefore
ſ only add, that whenever 'I had a mind to make him
5 change his diſcourſe, leave oﬀ ſad and diſagreeable ſub
'ſ jects, it was ſuﬃcient to paſs a pen over his lip, and
" immediately he diſcuſſed qſiuite diﬀerent queﬅion."
That conformity betwixt both recitals, ſer'Ves to conﬁrm
the one by the other; and iſ, after that double teﬅimony,
any one is authorized to perſevere in his ſurprize, he is
ﬅill more ſo to perſevere in his ſuſpicions.
To conclude, the laﬅ proof of reſemblance between the
two kinds of Somnambules is, that of waking : they both
entirely forget whatever they have either done or ſaid dur
ing their ſleep. * _
'I could, by extending ſuch diſcuſſion, account ſor the
communication of thoughts, withorit the aſſiﬅance of either
voice orſigns, it being eaſy to ſhew that this ﬁngularity is
not more diﬃcult to be underﬅood than the other; that it
has' been ſuſpected by ancient phyſiologiﬅs; and even men
tioned in 'modern works of celebrated phyſicians; but I
think it uſeleſs to expatiate any further o'n a (phoenomenon
with which the diﬀerent minds are not as yet grown fami
liar enough. . X ct ſ '
My object is, by no means, to write a complete work
wherein the ſubject of Magnetical Somnambuliſm ſhould
4 ' , i 4 be, '
'i
'q
(38)
he fully diſcuſſed. I only meant to elucidatc iſome ideas,
and to encourage judicious perſons to inveﬅigate the matter,
excite their reﬂections, and provoke in them a philoſophi
cal doubt, and laﬅly, to encourage them to contribute,
by inveﬅigation and obſervations, to reſolve a problem no
leſs intereﬅing to mankind than conducive to the im
provement of Sciences. - .
In my next I ſhall give an Eſſay on the Theory of Som
nambuliſrn.
