{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v6_n11_nov_2010.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V6 N11 Nov 2010","mylang":"de"}
293
Stewart Alexander’s Journey – Book Review – Leslie Price 294
Dr Sidgwick I Presume? – Leslie Price 296
Mrs Britten Nominally Challenged – Leslie Price 297
A Pioneer for Aquarius - Paul Fletcher 299
Could Psychical Research have started in Russia? – Leslie Price 303
Fewer Psychics put to death – Leslie Price 305
An Epoch-Making Theosophical Work of Reference: Review-Leslie Price 306
The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations
- Mrs. Andrew’s Mediumship 308
Forgotten Pioneers of the S.N.U: William Greenwood – Paul J. Gaunt 314
National Federation—Spiritualists’ National Union – Paul J. Gaunt 319
Books for sale 319
How to obtain this Journal by email 320
=========================================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 6, No 11: November 2010
294
STEWART ALEXANDER’S
JOURNEY
In recent years there has been a revival of
physical mediumship in the UK. In the Scole
case,1
this even impinged on the SPR.
Moreover, a little of the traditional hostility
between psychical researchers and Spiritualists
was, perhaps surprisingly, dissolved in the
séance rooms of the Noah’s Ark Society (NAS)
and related circles. To follow this revival, the
historian can turn to many contemporary reports
in psychic newspapers; to the Review of the
now defunct NAS; to several monographs on
Scole; and to investigations like Robin Foy’s In
Pursuit of Physical Mediumship.2
To this can
now be added a memoir by the physical
medium known as Stewart Alexander (SA)
which will be a great help to students of the
pioneers.3
SA’s book joins the few autobiographies by
physical mediums. His development was
lengthy, and although he was a founder member
of NAS, serving at different times as archivist
and president, he did not immediately begin the public séances and seminars, there and
elsewhere, which changed the lives of many people, including Susan Farrow, the later
editor of Psychic News. In the NAS, he sought out old workers to record their memories of
physical mediums, and also deepened his knowledge of the literature. He therefore brings
to his narrative, experience of his own and others’ mediumship, and a wide knowledge of
the history, including the fraught question of tests and fraud. Indeed a disagreement about
infra-red recording of his mediumship led to the fracture of his friendship with Alan
Crossley 4
who had hoped to see history made with such a film.
1
See Psypioneer Volume 4, No.6:—A sitting at Scole - Dr Alan Gauld, pages 156-164:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.7July08..pdf
2
London, Janus, 1996.
3
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium by Stewart Alexander, published by
Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback: ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9. Now
available:— http://www.amazon.co.uk/Extraordinary-Journey-Memoirs-Physical-Medium/dp/0955705061
4
Authored:—The Story of Helen Duncan, Alan E. Crossley Arthur H. Stockwell Ltd, Devon 1975.
295
SA returns several times to his reasons for not accepting formal test conditions (though he
has at times endured quite rigorous controls). He feared the media circus that a successful
test might trigger, which could disrupt his family and professional life; he believed that
such tests would fail to end the dispute about the reality of the phenomena; and he was
traumatised by another NAS member, a retired scientist who warned about infra-red—
“You, my friend, could literally be fried” (p.73).
Actually there are no documented cases of mediums being injured by infra-red
photography or viewing, [though see note at end]. Mediums can be injured by older
controls like ropes. Non-invasive technology (p.297) such as thermal imaging is
progressing all the time, and we may hope that it will eventually prove acceptable.
Historically then, the physical mediumship of SA may be remembered like that of, say,
Estelle Roberts, about which a sitter (such as Paul Beard) might look back and say “That
was the most remarkable experience” rather than, say, Stella C, who fully cooperated with
research, resulting in a full report. The situation is illustrated by David Fontana, who
contributed a warm foreword to the book, and sadly passed away around the time of
publication. Fontana published no research papers about SA’s mediumship, which he
witnessed as a guest rather than as a researcher.
There are a great many valuable observations in the book (SA resembles D.D. Home in
being prepared to speak very plainly about the foibles of Spiritualism) and also
reassessments of such classic mediums as Eusapia, George Valiantine and Margery. SA has
clearly thought much about the problem of mixed mediumship—those who at times,
especially in their later work, are found in compromising circumstances.
A reassessment of the neglected Valiantine is long overdue. SA is not afraid to criticise
Mrs Salter whose paper in Proceedings Society for Psychical Research (PSPR) more or less
wrote off the medium; and also Dennis Bradley, surely one of the ten most disagreeable
investigators ever, who pushed Valiantine up, and then tore him down. Especially timely
are the two chapters devoted to Margery Crandon, who died on 1st
November 1941. Much
archival material about Margery has lately emerged. Sadly, Thomas Tietze, who wrote the
only recent biography of Margery, truncated by the publisher, passed away on 20 October
2009 while working on an expanded update.
SA uses Tietze’s book, and also the eye-witness testimony of Marian Nester, director of
education at the American SPR, daughter of Mark Richardson; as a child she witnessed the
mediumship. (I visited Mrs Nester in New York in 1975 and 1976, and wish now I had
asked more about Margery! She later corresponded with SA.). Margery cooperated with
many tests, to no avail for her reputation; not an encouraging precedent for mediums such
as SA. “Walter”, Margery’s control, also known in the Glen Hamilton circle, re-appears as
an SA control.
Stewart Alexander’s book will greatly interest not only Psypioneer readers, but all who are
concerned about the direction taken by the Spiritualist Movement. We must hope in
particular that, though he has retired from public mediumship, he will continue his
historical writing.
296
Note:—Some Psypioneer readers saw burn marks on Gordon Higginson, attributable to
infra-red equipment. It would be useful to have a full account of these incidents, and
whether they involved, for example, an infra-red spotlight. PN later published an account
of a Swaffer circle séance in which GH photos were produced without injury. Some new
unobtrusive technology is available for monitoring mediums in the dark (not its original
purpose of course), from Thermoview Pty Ltd. Apparently it uses a combination of infra-
red and thermo-graphic processes. It is entirely non-intrusive, passive, and can be
employed in any industry in the most sensitive situations where issues of safety are
paramount. An attempt abroad to interest one well-known physical medium in it failed.
LP.
________________
DR SIDGWICK I PRESUME?
When is a doctor not a doctor? Tom Ruffles, SPR book review editor and Fortean Times
reviewer5
disagreed with Michael Tynn, author of “The Articulate Dead”6
when he referred
to “Dr Sidgwick” rather than “Mrs Sidgwick”, the SPR pioneer.
But Dr Ruffles was led to make further enquiries which he has reported on his blog.7
The official biography “Mrs Henry Sidgwick: a Memoir” (1938 by her niece Ethel
Sidgwick listed 4 honorary doctorates—Victoria University, England [i.e.
Manchester/Leeds/Liverpool], Birmingham, St. Andrews (Scotland) and Edinburgh. Dr
Ruffles ascertained from the universities in question that the degrees, all honorary, were
Litt.D. (1899 Victoria), LL.D (1909 Birmingham) LL.D (1911 St. Andrews) and LL.D
Edinburgh (923 Edinburgh). (LL.D is doctor of laws.) Burke’s Peerage also mentions these
doctorates but omits to state they were honorary.
Dr Ruffles was advised by the University of Cambridge Ceremonial Officer, that there was
no definite rule as to whether recipients of honorary doctorates should be addressed as
“Dr”. She herself does not seem to have used the title.
Her husband Henry Sidgwick also had honorary doctorates, but he too did not have a
doctorate from a thesis.
LP.
________________
5
For a selection of recent FT reviews, see:—http://www.forteantimes.com/reviews/books/archive/
6
Volume 5, No.3:—New Book Articulates Pioneer Cases by Leslie Price page 70:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.3March09..pdf
7
www.tomruffles.blogspot.com/
297
MRS BRITTEN NOMINALLY
CHALLENGED
In Psypioneer November 2004,8
we called attention to the need for care in referring to
Emma Hardinge Britten. Not only did she change her name at intervals, but she was not
always consistent, styling herself Miss or Mrs Hardinge in America for example, with a
logic that was not always clear.
Even in that Psypioneer note, we may
have given too much weight in
supporting the theory of Robert
Mathiesen9
that there had been an
actual person connected with her
called Hardinge, though the debate
continues.
Unwarranted hyphenation
Emma married William Britten in
1870 in New Jersey, USA. She then
took the names Emma Hardinge
Britten. She did not hyphenate this as
Hardinge-Britten. This is a rather
troublesome misunderstanding, as it
can result in her name appearing in
the wrong place in an index. This is
the case in the Cumulative Index to
Collected Writings of H.P.
Blavatsky;10
the Index is a volume in
its own right. In the Theosophical
Encyclopedia, noticed elsewhere in
this issue, the entire article on Emma
appears under “H” and she is called
“Hardinge-Britten”.
8
Volume 1, No.7:—The Names of Emma Hardinge Britten, page 57:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP7.pdf
9
The Unseen Worlds of Emma Hardinge Britten: …by Robert Mathiesen:—Theosophical History Occasional
Papers, Vol. IX 2001. Still available see:—http://www.theohistory.org/occas.html
See also: Duncan Gascoyne former SNU, president (2000-2010). Vol.3, No.4:—Emma Hardinge Britten:—
Further Information collated by Duncan Gascoyne (as at February 2007). Pages 24 – 26:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.2February07..pdf
10
http://blavatskyarchives.com/collectedwritings.htm
298
Loss of birth
Emma was born Emma Floyd. Her name is on her baptismal record issued at Bethnal
Green, London. Her father, mother and siblings also had the surname name Floyd. Her later
adoption of the name Harding (increasingly Hardinge after she went to the States) appears
to have been connected originally with her stage career. We mentioned in the 2004 article
that a Spiritualist web site had retrojected the Hardinge name and renamed her father
“Floyd Hardinge”. Since then other Spiritualist web sites have copied the confusion. Sadly
part of the SNU has also fallen victim.
Marc Demarest on his blog11
asked on 25 October:
“What Matters History?
“As shocking as it may sound, a recent Spiritualist National Union newsletter12
—one in
which they discuss the wonderful work done to restore EHB’s gravesite13
(p. 2)—
recapitulates, in a page, several of the mythic errors and dark lacunae concerning Emma’s
life (p. 3).
“What’s more troubling to me is where they cribbed from: other Spiritualist sites on the
Internet?
“Even though some of these errors had been corrected, years before14
within the Spiritualist
community.
“If the SNU and the American spiritualist community does not care to get things right
where Emma is concerned, who does?”
Marc has written to the SNU, offering his help in clarifying references to Emma in SNU
publications. We hope this offer, immediately acknowledged, leads to transatlantic co-
operation – and that “Floyd Hardinge” can be laid to rest.
LP.
________________
11
www.ehbritten.org
12
See SNU:—Spirit Post 2nd
edition:— http://www.charnwood.snu-
emdc.org.uk/Spirit%20Post%202nd%20Edition.pdf
13
Psypioneer see:—Volume 1, No.18:—Emma Hardinge Britten: Grave News, pages 217-220:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/18.PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
14
As previously referenced:—Volume 1, No.7:—The Names of Emma Hardinge Britten, page 57:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP7.pdf
299
[The engraved portrait of EHB which accompanies the above article was originally
published by James Burns on the front page of his journal, The Medium and Daybreak on
July 16th
1886. In this issue he published “Some Passages in the Spiritual Experiences of
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten.”15
by the author of “Art Magic” Louis De B—. Burns
published the portrait and article, “To welcome the return to the platform of Emma
Hardinge-Britten”. Note, Burns and the anonymous author of the article use a hyphen
between Hardinge-Britten.]
________________
A Pioneer for Aquarius
Wellesley Tudor Pole was born in Weston-super-Mare on 23rd
April 1884.
Wellesley’s father was Thomas Pole who married Kate Wansborough and they had five
children; Mary Tudor, Dorothy (who died as a child), Katharine Tudor (Kitty), Wellesley
Tudor (WTP) and Alexander Cecil. Wellesley married Florence Mary Snelling in 1912 and
they had three children.
Katherine wrote of Wellesley’s developing spiritual powers for Oliver Villiers in his
pamphlet ‘Appreciation and Valuation of WTP’.16
“…he was a difficult little chap because of being psychic and, of course, he was
not understood and so had a frustrating childhood.”
As a youngster he became aware of his psychic faculties when he was able to see the colour
of prayers rising up above the congregation in church. After a bout of typhoid he could
remember being outside his body.
Rather than attending university he joined the family grain business in Bristol, and aged
eighteen in 1902 he had a revelatory dream about Glastonbury, which he began visiting on
pilgrimage. This was how he discovered the Chalice Well, nestling between the Tor and
Chalice Hill, and he was so affected by the atmosphere around the Well that he knew that
one day he would be given the opportunity to restore the site. (This in fact came to pass
fifty-five years later).
Between 1906 -1913 Tudor Pole was much concerned with a Sapphire Blue Bowl that he
was involved in finding at Glastonbury in 1906 with the help of Christine and Janet Allen
15
A pdf ocr copy available on request.
16
Available from Chalice Well Bookshop. There is now also an official history of the Well:—
http://www.chalicewell.org.uk/index.cfm/glastonbury/Products.Details/product_id/390
300
and of his sister Kitty. The bowl was kept in an oratory at his house in Clifton, Bristol,
where it was seen by many luminaries of the day. Throughout his life Tudor Pole and his
sister Kitty looked after the bowl, before it was passed into the care of The Chalice Well
Trust in 1968.17
During the First World War WTP obtained his commission to the 3rd
Cheshire Regiment in
September 1917, and was posted to Egypt, serving on the Palestine Front. On the 3rd
of
December he was wounded and taken to hospital in Cairo. He recovered and served until
May 1919, being awarded the OBE in that year’s honours list.
During that first war, the ideas and impulse for the later Silent Minute were incubated.
WTP was able to convince Winston Churchill and the BBC to observe a silent minute at
9.00 p.m. each evening. WTP wrote:
“There is no power on earth that can withstand the united cooperation on
spiritual levels of men and women of goodwill everywhere and it is for this
reason that the continued observance of the Silent Minute is considered to be of
such vital importance in the interests of human welfare.”
At first it was anticipated that the Big Ben Silent Minute would finish in August 1945, at
the end of the war, but in fact it ran for 7700 successive nights until the 18th
of September
1961. In a small way its observance carries on to this day through the Silent Minute
Organisation, and also by being marked by the ringing of a bell in the gardens at Chalice
Well at midday and 3.00 pm each day to call people to silence.
From his earliest day WTP was truly a global person, having a remarkable number of
overseas friends and contacts, including many Russian friends and associates. By
December 1919 he had established his own firm W. Tudor Pole and Company at 61, St,
James Street, London, negotiating direct trade links with Russia and Eastern Europe. The
company had representation in New York, Paris, Amsterdam, Constantinople, Alexandria
and Haifa and it was said that WTP would never finance or be connected with any
business, unless he himself was fully satisfied that it would be of direct benefit to suffering
humanity.
Many of Tudor Pole’s papers and records were destroyed during a bombing raid on London
in the Second World War. Throughout this second conflict WTP was busy working for the
protection of Britain and for the ultimate success of the Allied Forces. He wrote in 1940:
“Through silence in the Islands comes strength to the people (and thereby a
renewal of inspiration). As a result they are ‘let’ or allowed to approach and
come near to the source of all good. ‘Then let them speak’ the prayers of
supplication, affirmation, meditation, peace. Herein lies the key to what we are
trying to do with the silent observance.”
17
See:—Patrick Benham “The Avalonians” Glastonbury, Gothic Image, 2006
301
In fact after the war was over, WTP was very concerned that there should be no harsh
triumphalism, lobbying both Churchill and Roosevelt to this end. He despaired at the rush
to bring down ‘the iron curtain’ and at the use of nuclear weapons on Japan. As late as
1963 in his ‘Message for the Coming Time’ he warned of the dangers and impact of
nuclear technology on the natural world, including humanity.18
In his lifetime WTP wrote an astonishing amount of material in the form of letters and
pamphlets, and in the last years of his life completed a series of books. The direct and
contemporary nature of his writing can be judged from these brief extracts:
“Whilst on pilgrimage the pilgrim should hold in thought and prayer the
activities and experiences of each day. The key note then should be - show me
how to do my part under St Michael’s guidance.”
“In practical matters, when ever a centre is found to be neglected or in disrepair,
do not leave that spot without doing something, however small, to improve the
situation, in the spirit of loving service. Whether conscious of his presence or
no, always salute the Guardian on arriving and on leaving each centre visited.”
“Pray daily for the peace of the world, for true fellowship among people and for
the realisation of the fact that all Life lives and moves and has its being within
the infinite and universal Mind of the Creator.”
“Darkness cannot overwhelm the world so long as Light continues to radiate by
reflection from the hearts and minds of all who dedicate themselves to this high
purpose. Learn also to reflect the light from each holy place to which your
pilgrim steps are led.”
(These four extracts are taken from ‘Michael, Prince of Heaven’ pamphlet).
By 1959 Tudor Pole had established The Chalice Well Trust to safeguard the future of the
Chalice Well and its surrounding land and properties. Giving us this insight he wrote to
Rosamond Lehmann:
“There are certain geographical spots or centres where the veil is ‘thinner’ than
elsewhere. There may be historical, occult or even astrological reasons that
have supervened over the centuries to bring about this thinning of the veils,
through which light can pass down into our human atmosphere more easily than
is the case elsewhere. Such spots are nearly always associated with a healing
spring or well, and with holy persons from past history. At such spots, if they
are preserved, peacefully and prayerfully, pilgrims cannot only find rest, but
their inner perceptions can be stimulated and brought out into the open. Chalice
Well is one such centre, and part of its heritage is to be able to act like a
18
Message for the Coming Time booklet and CD of WTP reading available from Chalice Well Bookshop
302
sounding board. With the world in turmoil, the careful preservation of such
dedicated centres becomes imperative for the welfare of the whole community.”
WTP thought of Chalice Well as the first Gateway in Britain through which Christ’s
message entered, and he felt the task of the Well was to render the property (i.e. the
dwellings and the gardens laid out in a particular way) and its atmosphere peaceful,
beautiful and worthy to be used again as “A gateway for a message for the coming times.”
Of considerable importance was the creation of an ‘Upper Room’ in Little St. Michael’s
Retreat House, dedicated to silence, meditation and prayer.
His glimpses, an unusual form of seership, are chronicled in his books ‘A Man Seen Afar’,
‘Writing on the Ground’ and ‘The Silent Road’. Before his illness and passing in 1968
these books laid out his vision for the future. His life work had included the Silent Minute
and the subsequent Lamplighter Movement and seeing the Chalice Well restored and
renewed. These were the gifts WTP gave to the world and which make him such an
important figure in the spiritual history of the world.
Paul Fletcher, Chalice Well Trust, 2010.
For further information please visit:—chalicewell.org.uk
~~~~~
[Psypioneer would like to extend its thanks to Paul Fletcher for sending us this
excellent article. Ed.]
________________
303
COULD PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
HAVE STARTED IN RUSSIA?
What is the connection between television, postage stamps and psychical research? Well,
they are all supposed to have been invented in Britain.
The Society for Psychical Research was founded in 1882 in London, at the British National
Association of Spiritualists rooms near the British Museum. Similar societies were later
started all over the world.
But was there another country which began scientific psychical research first? In her great
work “Nineteenth Century Miracles”, Emma Hardinge Britten called attention to events in
Russia, where a group of scientists were at work in 1875. They were convened by Dmitri
Mendeleev.
Mendeleev was no ordinary scientist. In a major breakthrough in 1869 he conceived the
periodic table of chemical elements which in essence we still use. Yet something disrupted
those Russian scientists. What went wrong has lessons for us today.
The story began in 1871 when D.D. Home, the most famous Victorian medium, was in St.
Petersburg, Russia. Among his sitters was A.M. Butlerov, a leading organic chemist, who
was convinced by the phenomena. Julie, the sister of Butlerov’s wife was impressed too -
she married the medium! Butlerov had been introduced to Spiritualism by Aksakov, the
intellectual leader of Russian Spiritualism.
Butlerov got other scientists interested, but Home was unwell, and left Russia, though he
was soon fit enough to experiment most successfully with Crookes in London. Although
Home returned to work in Russia, it was the visiting French medium Camille Bredif who
impressed another Russian scientist, the zoologist N.P. Vagner [sic- Not Wagner].
The resulting publicity for Spiritualism alarmed Mendeleev who like many younger
scientists hoped with messianic fervour that Science would replace Superstition in Russian
life, and who feared that the image of Science would be marred by any association with
Spiritualism.
In May 1875 at his suggestion, the Russian Physical Society set up a twelve person
commission to investigate Spiritualism. Butlerov, Aksakov and Vagner agreed to advise it.
The commission sat with the teenage Petty brothers, brought from Newcastle to Russia by
Aksakov. The boys made a dubious impression - Hudson Tuttle, quoted by Mrs Britten,
explained that the strongest psychic power was actually in their mother who had not come
to Russia.
304
A second British medium, known as Mrs Clayer, did produce phenomena, but not at special
anti-fraud tables. Accusations of deception were again made; the pro-Spiritualist scientists
withdrew; the commission suspended work, and produced a negative report
“Spiritualistic phenomena occur from unintentional movements or from intentional fraud,
and spiritualistic teaching is a superstition” they concluded..
Mendeleev reinforced this negative message in public lectures, and in a full length book of
the séances records. Aksakov published two replies, but a large extent, scientific
investigation of Spiritualism in Russia was over. It has never resumed.
Attempts were made in 1875 in the United States by Henry Olcott, Madame Blavatsky and
others to find mediums to send to Russian scientists, and this was recorded in the
Theosophical history books, such as Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves.
Henry Slade who was sent to Russia with their encouragement, had various adventures en
route, including being arrested in England, and amazing Professor Zollner in Germany.
Why had the Russian attempt at psychical research ended so badly? How did it differ from
the UK project, the SPR, founded a mere seven years later in 1882, which is still with us
today?
First, Russia was not a free society. Aksakov, despite his high connections, was not even
permitted in 1874 by the censor to establish a psychic journal in Russia - he had to publish
it in Germany. Although mediumship was of doubtful legality in Britain, there was a free
press here.
The acute polarisation of opinion in Russia was not conducive to progress. As well as the
rising generation of materialist Russian scientists, there were pious intellectuals such as
Dostoevsky, who did not hesitate to identify the Devil as the inspirer of the phenomena.
The novelist mocked the scientific pretensions of the Mendeleev commission. Indeed,
Spiritualism, or rather anti-Spiritualism, was a theme in his work.
Mendeleev, in contrast, was not entirely closed to the paranormal as aspect of the physical
world; initially he even suspected that the weather might play a part in the success or
failure of séances. But meteorology was much more a passion for him than mediumship.
And Mendeleev felt fear. Members of certain scientific disciplines whose status is
precarious, are often hostile to psychical research, and seek to put distance between their
own speciality and the psychic field. So it was at times with psychology in the twentieth
century, and still was with science generally, in the nineteenth.
Mendeleev’s dogmatism was not helpful. In contrast, the SPR had as its first president, the
philosopher Henry Sidgwick. His neutrality might be irritating to believers or disbelievers
alike, but it did permit different viewpoints to be expressed within the same organisation.
305
In retrospect, a time limited commission was not ideal, even if it had completed its full
year-long programme. The complexity of the phenomena really needs more than a lifetime
to unravel. We may be sorry that the SPR cannot by its constitution pronounce a collective
verdict, but at least it prevents a premature reckoning, and allows research to continue.
Reliance on visiting mediums (to Russia) was far from ideal. It is difficult even for many
non-mediums to work in strange surroundings amid unfamiliar languages. Sometimes a
medium abroad can do good work with scientists- Mrs Piper for example in England. But
general reliance on indigenous talent is to be recommended.
We might also suggest that it is best not to limit enquiries to Spiritualism, but to include the
whole field of the paranormal, such as ghosts, ESP and precognition. F.W. H. Myers, the
great mind of the SPR, put these in a framework in his classic work Human Personality
and its Survival of bodily death.
Ironically, Mendeleev, who had provided a classic framework, for chemistry in the periodic
table, did not perceive a similar challenge in the paranormal.
Leslie Price.
________________
FEWER PSYCHICS PUT TO
DEATH
The number of psychics put to death by the Christian church, has fallen sharply since
Psypioneer first highlighted the problem in August 2004.19
According to the SNU web site
at that time “Hundreds of thousands of psychics were put to death by organised ‘witch-
hunters’ during the Christian centuries,”
Now the number has been reduced to thousands.20
“During these times” the SNU reports “thousands of mediums were put to death by the
church-sanctioned ‘witch-hunters’.
But the assertion is imaginary. As reported as long ago as the first issue of Psypioneer, total
witchcraft trial deaths were around 60,000. Undoubtedly a few mediums or healers were
among the victims, but they were not especially targeted. The Christian authorities were, on
occasion, restraining influences, and at other times deeply implicated.
19
Volume 1, No.4:—Psychics put to death on web site, page 30:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP4.pdf
20
http://www.snu.org.uk/Spiritualism/ancient.htm
306
Pagan scholars, who have an obvious interest today in the term “witch”, now accept that
pagans were not the target of the witch hunts. A watershed here was the publication of
Professor Ronald Hutton’s history of Wicca, “The Triumph of the Moon” in 1999. But
even before, Jenny Gibbons had alerted the pagan community to the new discoveries in a
1998 paper “Recent developments in the study of the Great European witch hunt.”21
Why have Spiritualists not got the same message? A major factor is the influence of Arthur
Findlay’s books, many still in print, which perpetuate incorrect stereotypes on this and
other historical questions.
LP.
________________
AN EPOCH-MAKING THEOSOPHICAL
WORK OF REFERENCE
~~~~~~~
One of the streams of work in which psychic pioneers played a significant role has always
been Modern Theosophy. We regularly carry articles by or about such workers as Stainton
Moses, an early member of the New York T.S. The relation between his phenomena and
those of the early Theosophists continues to perplex historians. Charles Carleton Massey, a
T.S. founder, was also a founder of the Society for Psychical Research and of the London
Spiritualist Alliance.
The publication in 2006 of the long-awaited Theosophical Encyclopedia22
was therefore a
welcome event.23
It is one of many well-produced works to emerge from the Philippine T.S. But there is a
problem with any reference work published by a movement—will it forsake objectivity in
deference to the sensitivities of that movement? This is in addition to the problems which
beset all who work on reference material, especially biographical—the individuals, for
example, who lack any date of birth, or death, or even both.
In my view, the TE is much better than it might have been. It is an invaluable work of
reference for all Theosophists, but no one can peruse even a few pages without learning
21
www.draeconin.com/database/witchhunt.htm
22
Note the American spelling which, our subscriber Dr Algeo reminds me, was also the 1531 first spelling in
English, according to the Oxford English Dictionary!
23
Theosophical Encyclopedia:—http://www.theosophy.ph/encyclo.html
307
something worthwhile. Obviously its central focus is not the paranormal—the powers
latent in man are mentioned only in one of the three objects shortly adopted in the T.S.
A sober note is sounded in the preface. Totalitarian regimes have regularly destroyed
Theosophical groups and their records. Though not mentioned, the impressive French T.S.
headquarters building was seized by the Gestapo. Theosophy is not just pots of tea and
bananas.24
Its teaching of equality and brotherhood is a threat to tyrants.
Turning now to the articles in TE, there seems to have been an agreement not to be critical
of other Theosophical and related societies; indeed some of the contributors are members
of groups that are separate from the biggest (Adyar-based) T.S. This means that the less
attractive traits of the minority of such leaders who are imperfect, and possibly not honest
about themselves, and their contacts with the Mahatmas (or Masters,) are not featured.
There are limits to such liberality however. Annie Besant gets nine pages, Leadbeater five,
Judge less than two, and Crosbie one. To be fair, some subjects had fuller lives that merit
longer articles.
At times, the treatment borders on the misleading. The article on Leadbeater minimises the
sexual charges against him; the one on his colleague Wedgwood claims he suffered
persecution and ill-health, but does not explain why this should be so. Both articles are by
priests of the Liberal Catholic Church in which L and W were leaders.
Only a few articles have any bibliography, and it is to be hoped that this is rectified in the
next edition. An important example is in the article about the Books of Kiu-te, which are
significant in establishing the Tibetan links of HPB.25
“Recent scholars” it is noted, “particularly H.J. Spierenburg and David Reigle, have
identified the Book of Kiu-te to be the Tibetan Buddhist Tantras, known in Tibetan as
rGyud-de” (p.356). But the reader who wants to follow this up is not told where.
Nevertheless, the virtues of the work greatly outweigh the flaws. It was a herculean task to
assemble so many workers in such a vast cooperative endeavour. From the short articles,
which often furnish details of hard-to-clarify minor characters and concepts, to the longer
essays on major themes and personalities, there is endless edification here.
LP.
________________
24
The poem:—“My Love Is a Theosophist” see:—http://www.poemhunter.com/poem/my-love-is-theosophist/
25
Psypioneer Volume 1, No.14:—Madame Blavatsky, Buddhism and Tibet, pages 172-179:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP14_2005.pdf
308
The Beginnings of Full Form
Materialisations
Mrs. Mary J. Hollis-Billing was featured in the last issue,26
under the article reference
number 15; I stated:
Another medium of the period was Mrs. Andrews of Moravia, New York. Like
Hollis she remained conscious during the phenomena. Andrews is credited (by
Harrison in The Spiritualist) as being the first medium with whom spirit faces
began to appear regularly. Soon afterwards the spotlight was pointed to
London. January 1872, Mrs. Guppy became the first British medium to
materialise spirit hands and faces,27
followed by Herne and Williams, and the
introduction of Florence Cook. Psypioneer will be publishing reports on the
Andrews mediumship in the next issue.
However, Mrs. Mary Andrews has proved difficult to track down. In the May 1873 issue,
of The Spiritualist newspaper we find this account of Andrews’ physical mediumship:—
MRS. ANDREW’S MEDIUMSHIP
The Spiritualist:—28
MRS. ANDREWS, of Moravia, New York State, was the medium through whom
spirit faces first began to appear regularly to many witnesses at once. The following
account of one of her seances is from the Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.), February
8th, 1873:—
There are seven persons present to form a circle. Only three of these are strangers to
me; the rest my relatives who accompanied me hither. We form a semicircle and join
hands. The medium, Mrs. Andrews, sits facing us. I can easily touch her with my cane,
my right arms rests on a pianoforte. A lamp is burning brightly. It is nine o’clock in the
morning, but we need the lamp, because the only window of the apartment is darkened,
and the only door bolted.
The medium now remarks:—“We first sit in the dark, and continue until the spirits
call for a light.” The light is now extinguished. The piano begins to play. It is not the
26
Volume 6, No.10:—Mrs. Mary J. Hollis, pages 272-283:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.10October2010..pdf
27
Oxford DNB: —http://www.oup.com/oxforddnb/info/
28
The Spiritualist May 1, 1873 page 190.
309
medium, for I am conversing with her. Passing my cane along the keys I feel no one;
still the playing goes on, and is directly assisted by voices, seemingly in the air above
us, that join in with great power and sweetness. Mysterious lights are beginning to
dance before us, describing curved lines and circles, and playing around each other in a
way that makes it clear they are guided by intelligence. While this beautiful display is
going on, soft voices whisper startling things in our ears, and delicate hands thrill us by
gentle touches and affectionate caresses. A familiar voice, long silent in death, as I had
thought, said to me, “Dear brother, I come to greet you. Believe me, this is your own
sister Nancy. A fortnight ago you visited my grave. I stood by your side, though you
saw me not, my spirit-body being invisible as the viewless air. How I wanted to speak
to you! Thank heaven for the present opportunity!” Tender lips now kissed mine. I sat
speechless, my heart swelling and throbbing, but directly found relief in gushing tears.
During the dark seance white and purple clouds gathered above our heads, and
seemed in commotion. Their crimson edges now and then shed such light as enabled us
to see one another, and every object in the room. Out of the clouds came, at one time, a
little dash of rain, accompanied by wind and the rich perfume of flowers. Immediately
after this, a white figure that seemed a column of cloud, snowy, yet tinged with
something bright and luminous, came down and sat before me. While I gazed,
wondering what it might be, the figure bent toward me, and out came a luminous hand,
which was gently laid upon my forehead. It remained but for a moment, touching my
temple and cheek affectionately. It disappeared in the fleecy folds enveloping the
mysterious figure, which now ascended and was lost to my view amid the moving
clouds overhead.
After about thirty-five minutes of darkness, a voice in the air said, “Please strike a
light.” Being nearest the light, I complied with the request. The medium, now rising
from her chair, went into the cabinet, which is a thing looking not unlike a common
wardrobe. It is made of plain, thin boards, and has folding-doors about three feet and a
half high. Above the door hangs a black velvet curtain reaching down to the top of the
shutters when closed.
Upon entering the cabinet, the medium requested me to close and latch the door after
her. As I did so, I was surprised to see an armless hand, white as snow, come out from
under the curtain and tap me on the hand and arm, which it did quickly and several
times, then darted back into the cabinet. Resuming my seat in the circle, we waited a
few minutes, and the curtain of the aperture slowly moved aside while the face of a man
appeared. There was nothing ghostly in the look or action of the apparation.
Countenance, feature, complexion, and every movement of muscle, and motion of head,
hand and lip were perfectly natural. He bent his gaze steadfastly upon a middle-aged
man in the circle, who was a stranger to me, and evidently made an effort to speak, but
failing, waved his hand and drew back from the light, letting the curtain drop. The
gentleman at whom the apparition had looked so earnestly now exclaimed: “That was
my father! Oh, will he not speak to me?” Immediately the curtain went aside again, and
the same face presented itself, and another effort—I thought a painful one—was made
to speak. The mouth opened, the lips moved, but no sound of voice was heard. With a
310
slight shade of disappointment on his countenance, the old man bowed his head twice,
and putting forth his hand, waved an adieu in a most feeling manner. In a few seconds
afterwards, the curtain was put back by a hand resembling very much the armless one
which had caressed me at the aperture. And now a face, facsimile of one I had seen
coffined years gone by. Without speaking, I turned a glance upon my sister in the flesh,
sitting by my side. She was trembling and weeping, so I felt sure she was not behind me
in the recognition of the face at the aperture. It was our dear departed sister, the same
who had spoken to us in the dark a few minutes before. She now uttered her own name
in her own clear, familiar tone. How the blood tingled in my veins as her well-
remembered grey eyes met mine! Nor seemed she less moved than I. I could not keep
my seat, but glided up to the aperture, when she, with manifest emotion, threw her arms
around my neck. It was but for a moment. Releasing me, she quickly disappeared
behind the curtain.
But I must crowd the facts and incidents I propose to give more closely. Of course I
cannot set down all, nor even half, in an article like this, intended to brief, which was
elicited during an investigation kept up, day after day, for three weeks.
I saw many strange faces at the aperture,—some days from ten to fifteen or
twenty—the most of whom were recognised by some one or more present in the circle.
It was near a week after the appearance of the sister just alluded to, before I recognised
another face, yet a number of apparitions professed to recognise me. At length two
other sisters succeeded in materialising themselves, and appeared side by side at the
aperture. The recognition was undoubted; my sister at my side recognising them at the
same moment I did; and strangers present remarked upon the family resemblance. But
the certainty was made doubly certain when the apparitions mentioned incidents in their
earth-life and ours, which we readily and vividly remembered.
A few days subsequent, our mother appeared, threw open the door of the cabinet,
and showed herself to us from head to foot.
Six times during the three weeks, an old acquaintance, who died a materialist,
appeared to me, looked and talked naturally; referred repeatedly to his materialistic
notions, and how unhappy they made him; said much about his present condition, and
its advantages over the former; tried to give me an idea of spirit-life, the pursuits,
pleasures, and amusements of spirits, as well as their institutions for doing good,
educating the ignorant, and lifting higher the low and debased.
I must give one more instance of recognition, and close my story, already, perhaps,
too long.
A few days before I left the place, a gentleman came there, bringing with him two
little girls—his own daughters—the elder, perhaps, eight years old, the younger about
six. Before going into the seance room, he said to me, “When about leaving home my
wife observed, ‘I would go too, if I thought mother would show herself there; but as she
was always opposed to Spiritualism, I’m sure she’ll have no desire to make any
311
manifestation.’ The last one I should look for,” he rejoined, “she was so bitter against
everything of the kind.” But, lo! after the light seance began, who should appear first at
the aperture but this same old grandmother. She bent her eyes affectionately upon the
children. The little girls gazed a moment in mute astonishment, then both at once
clapping their hands in ecstacy, exclaimed, “Grandma! Grandma!” “Keep still!” said
the father, in a low tone of voice, and evidently much moved. Then to the apparition
said, “You didn’t believe in this a few weeks ago.”
“No,” replied the spirit, “but, thank God, it is true!” These words were uttered very
distinctly, and with a peculiar stress of voice, indicating earnestness and deep feeling.
The old lady had been dead but three weeks.
I could give many more remarkable tests through recognition, but must close here.
Alton, Ill.
ISAAC KELSO
~~~~~~~~
There are few references to Mrs. Andrews’ mediumship in spiritualistic books, Frank
Podmore briefly gives two short accounts of her mediumship:— 29
In the latter part of 1871 the American papers contained accounts of sittings
held with a new medium, Mrs. Andrews, at the house of a farmer named
Keeler,30
in Moravia, New York, not far from Auburn. At these sittings spirit
hands and faces were shown from the cabinet; and spirit forms, frequently
recognised as those of deceased relations, walked about the room and
conversed with the sitters.
At the early seances in America, as already mentioned, the sitters were
reported to have constantly “recognised” the spirit forms. Mr. J. W. Truesdell
31
was present at some of the sittings given by Mrs. Anderson in Moravia, and
has described some of the “recognitions” of which he was a witness. Thus Mr.
T. R. Hazard (a well-known Spiritualist) was greeted by a figure purporting to
be his mother. Mr. Hazard could not see the features of the figure, and could
29
Quotes, pages 96, 114 respectively:—Mediums of the 19th Century (two volumes), by Frank Podmore
University Books, Inc New York, 1963. Originally published under the title:—Modern Spiritualism A History
and a Criticism (two Volumes), Methuen & Co, London 1902.
30
Ed. Mary Andrews, was of Irish parentage, and lived for some time as a domestic in Mr. Keeler’s family.
She was described (Dec., 1871) as “a well-formed, comely married woman between twenty-five and thirty
years old, and the mother of three little girls.” From p. 32, The Proof Palpable of Immortality by Epes
Sargent.
31
Author:—The Bottom Facts concerning the Science of Spiritualism by John W. Truesdell G.W.
Dillingham, 1892, 315 pages.
312
not recognise the voice; but he had no doubt that it really was his mother,
founding his conviction on his recognition of the Quaker cap and bonnet which
the figure wore. This Quaker cap and bonnet, Mr. Truesdell tells us, had
already done duty in a similar capacity for several other witnesses with equal
success.
~~~~~~~~
A fuller account of Hazard’s (Rhode Island) account can be found in Epes Sargent’s book
The Proof Palpable of Immortality.32
Hazard gave his accounts of Andrews’ mediumship in
his, Eleven Days in Moravia by Thomas Robinson Hazard, William White & Co., 1872, 45
pages.33
Reports of Mrs. Andrews’ manifestations tend to end around 1873, the quote below may
give us some clues as to her demise. Her career may have continued for some years and are
contained and awaiting re-discovery in the various journals like the Boston, Banner of
Light.
~~~~~~~~
LECTURE AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
The Spiritualist:—34
LAST Sunday week, at the Cavendish Rooms, Mr. James Burns presided.
Miss Hay, who had just returned from America, delivered an address, in the course
of which she told how she had attended the wonderful seances for spirit forms, obtained
through the mediumship of Mrs. Andrews Moravia, N.Y. Miss Hay said that she went
to Moravia for the first time on her way back from the Falls of Niagara to Boston; she
remained at Moravia for six days. After several failures her mother succeeded in
materialising herself so as to be beautifully seen, but her (Miss Hay’s) spirit guide, the
late Frederick Robertson of Brighton, failed in his attempts to show himself; she
wondered at this, since her mother had only recently entered spirit life, whereas
Frederick Robertson had passed from earth in 1853, so might be supposed to have had
much more experience. However, she did not understand the science of the matter.
Strangers in the room noticed the resemblance of her mother to herself, and her mother
said to her, “Mary, will you forgive and forget?”—a question the meaning of which she
well understood. She wished every living soul to understand that the first thing spirits
think about on entering the next life is how to repair wrongs done on earth; they have to
come back here to make a starting point, from which to rise to higher and brighter
32
Chapter III, Mr. Hazard’s Experiences pages 32-36: The Proof Palpable of Immortality by Epes Sargent
Colby and Rich, 1875. (Numerous “read on line” or download options available)
33
Now reprinted by Kessinger Publishing, 2010 IBSN:—1162186119, 9781162186115.
34
The Spiritualist August 15, 1873 pages 300-301.
313
spheres. Before the first letters reached her (Miss Hay) in America, announcing her
mother’s death, her mother told her of the circumstance through a medium, and asked
her forgiveness.
Next a hand came out of Mrs. Andrews’s cabinet, waving a white handkerchief with
blood-stains on it; then a female face appeared, holding the handkerchief to her nose; it
was her aunt, but she did not see her features very clearly. Next came her departed cou-
sin Janet; there was no mistaking her; there she stood in her beautiful ringlets. Recently
she had obtained a photographic likeness of the same spirit at Mr. Hudson’s. These
three spirit relatives were all Mrs. Hays. The manifestations take place in a rough
pleasant farmhouse. Keeler, the farmer, is a blunt honest man. Altogether it is a peculiar
affair, and great numbers of people go there, the excitement about the appearance of the
spirits is so intense. Even at that time the power of Mrs. Andrews as a medium was on
the wane, and it has been waning ever since. She (Miss Hay) knew why. She had said to
Mrs. Andrews, “I wish you to be a good woman as well as a good medium.” Mrs.
Andrews had got into the way of thinking of nothing but the amount of money she
could make by her mediumship; she makes no secret of this, but tells both the mortals
and the spirits that she would sit for neither of them were it not for the money. On her
second visit to Moravia, Mrs. Andrews let two of her rooms to her, a thing she had
never done before to anybody, and told her she might stop for ten years if she liked. She
remained there for four or five months, so saw much of Mrs. Andrews and her
mediumship. Mrs. Andrews was very peculiar and difficult to manage, so that very
often people did not know how to get on with her; still, she had her good points, and
could do generous things. She (Miss Hay) would not object to go to Mrs. Andrews's
house again, although they parted under somewhat unhappy circumstances.
~~~~~~~~
Starting in the next issue, we will be publishing original reports on the early physical
mediums:—E.g., Agnes Nichol/Guppy/Volckman, Charles Williams, Mr. A. Rita, Frank
Hearn, Florence Cook/Corner, Catherine Wood, Annie Fairlamb/Mellon/Gleave, Henry
Slade, Rev/Dr. Francis Monck, Elizabeth Hope/D’Esperance etc, the séances, the charges
made against them, their supporters, and statements by leading Spiritualists like Stainton
Moses,35
J.S. Farmer, Emma Hardinge Britten etc, who voiced concerns with the dark
circles/cabinets.
Paul J. Gaunt
________________
35
Who had:—“long and earnestly advocated the total abolition of the practice of placing a medium in a dark
cabinet out of view of the sitters, except under very special circumstances …” After Catherine (Kate) Woods,
second seizure in 1882 a carefully worded statement was sent out to societies and individual Spiritualists
throughout England, by the editors of Light and the Psychological Review (J.S. Farmer). So grave was the
effect for the general welfare of Spiritualism, as the run of exposures had been so damaging and discrediting
to the movement, united action was sought in methods of investigation for dark circles/cabinets. This article
which also contains the Moses quote will be published later in the series “The Evils of Dark Cabinets”, Light
September 23rd
1882, page 422.
314
FORGOTTEN PIONEERS OF THE S.N.U:
William Greenwood
April 13th, 1861—April 22d, 1905
Each month Psypioneer will be looking at the forgotten pioneers of the Spiritualists’
National Union (SNU). In the last issue we featured Hanson Hey,36
who became SNU
General Secretary; his tobacconist’s shop at Halifax, was the first registered office of the
SNU. William Greenwood was to become SNU treasurer, and he also sat on the first SNU
council with Hey; both can be seen in the group photograph published in the last issue on
page 267.
It appears Wm Greenwood became active within the National Federation at the Ninth
Annual Conference under the presidency of Mr. E. W. Wallis, which was held on Friday,
July 8, 1898 at the Heber Street Spiritual Temple, the home of the Keighley Spiritualists’
Society, who also celebrated their 45th Anniversary, in conjunction with the National
Conference—the birthplace, it was claimed, of English Modern Spiritualism.
Greenwood at this conference put his name forward for the Executive Council, but his
name with others was withdrawn37
in favour of Messrs. Macdonald, P. Lee, Mrs.
Greenwood, Mrs. Venables, Messrs. Swindlehurst, Collins, and Adams. His wife Jessy38
can be traced back to the 1893 conference as a soloist and Lyceum leader:—“Part I was
provided by the Lyceum scholars, under the able direction of the indefatigable Mrs.
Greenwood, assisted by a capable staff of loyal co-workers.”39
In 1899 William Greenwood with Mr. T. Taylor were elected auditors,40
later, in 1901 he
became treasurer, a post which I believe he held until his death in 1905.
36
Volume 6, No.10:—Hanson Gledhill Hey, pages 263-271:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.10October2010..pdf
37
The ballot paper originally held 25 names, but those of Messrs. Bibbings, Butterworth, Greenwood, and
Hewes were withdrawn:—The Two Worlds Friday, July 8, 1898
38
Sometimes spelt:—Jessie
39
1893, Fourth Conference of the National Federation, under the presidency of James Robertson (Glasgow),
Jessy Greenwood was in the opening procession:—“At Sowerby Bridge, on Saturday last, in perfect
weather, a large number of Spiritualists assembled at the Town Hall and, to the inspiring strains of
a first-class brass band, paraded the principal streets of the town.” The Two Worlds, July 7, 1893.
The conferences in those days were big joyful affairs, Frank Hepworth was said to have considerable
ability as a singer, and comedian/humorist, and would perform at the Federation conferences, later
becoming SNU president in 1909.
40
The Two Worlds July 7, 1899
315
The Greenwoods, like Hanson Hey, were active members in the Sowerby Bridge
Lyceum,41
which was founded in 1869.42
William and Jessy were the founders of Hebden
Bridge Spiritualist Society in 1903.
Duncan Gascoyne informs me:—
“Hebden Bridge Society was formed in November 1903
and accepted into affiliation with the SNU in March
1904. They initially met in the Co-op Hall in Hebden
Bridge.
I have a write-up of the opening of the Lyceum on 6th
November 1904 and attach a copy of this for you (as
published below).
In 1979 the Society was in a poor state and as Secretary
of the then SNU Yorkshire District Council I organised
a two day 75th Anniversary events for them. This
attracted quite a large number of interested parties and
the Society gained a new life. It is still going quite well
today.43
In the Britten Memorial Museum44
I have a copy of the
Programme for the Golden Jubilee celebrations.”
~~~~~~~
41
It was at Sowerby Bridge that Abbey Wilson introduced Alfred Kitson to Lyceum work. (Alfred Kitson
himself told this story in an Address he gave at Sowerby Bridge in 1886, which was later published in the
Medium and Daybreak.) Taken from:—“Historical aspects and personalities attached to the early years of
Sowerby Bridge Church” 2010, Britten Memorial Museum by Duncan Gascoyne:—former SNU president
(2000-2010)
Sowerby Bridge Society was to host the Fourth Conference of the Spiritualists National Federation (SNF), on
2nd
July 1893 which was held in the Town Hall.
42
The Lyceum at Sowerby Bridge was commenced in 1869 in the house of Edward Woods, and afterwards at
the house of Mr William Robinson:— Gascoyne Historical aspects …
43
Spiritualist Churches in Yorkshire, UK:—http://www.spiritualist.tv/churches/uk/yorkshire/
44
Duncan Gascoyne, curator of the Britten Museum see:—http://www.answers.com/topic/britten-memorial-
museum The accompanying photograph shows Duncan Gascoyne sitting at J. Arthur Findlay’s desk which is
part of the Britten Memorial Museum, and is housed at The Arthur Findlay College: —
http://www.arthurfindlaycollege.org/
316
This report on the opening of Hebden Bridge Lyceum was printed in the December 1904
edition of the British Spiritualists’ Lyceum Banner Vol XIV No 167 (references and photo
Psypioneer Ed).
HEBDEN BRIDGE LYCEUM OPENING.
_____________
This society attained its first birthday on November 6th
, and celebrated its anniversary by
opening a Lyceum. The two eminent Lyceumists entrusted with the ceremony were Mr.
and Mrs. Chiswell, who are known everywhere as ardent workers in the children’s cause.
Sowerby Bridge Lyceum closed for the day, and a big company walked over in the
morning to give all the assistance they could to their new baby—Hebden Bridge Lyceum—
and right royally did they work. About 100 assembled, and at 10.30 the bell rang for order
for the first time in Victoria Hall. Mrs. Greenwood introduced the visitors and then asked
Mr. Chiswell45
to take charge of the session. All rose to their feet, and a beautiful
invocation made a deep impression on all present. The session then commenced in the
usual way. Perhaps the most interesting and impressive
part of it was the installing of the various officers. This was
done in a truly Chiswellian style, and each officer realised
the dignity of his or her office. Special badges had been
provided, and after the officers had resumed their places all
the Lyceumists pinned the Davis Badge 46
to the opposite
side from that on which the officers wore theirs. These
were a gift to the Lyceum by Mr. Greenwood. Words of
welcome to Mr. Chiswell, who represented the B.S.L.U.,47
were spoken by Miss C. Holroyde, as conductor for
Sowerby Bridge Lyceum; Mr. Ernest Howarth, as sec. for
the Halifax and Huddersfield Lyceum District Council;
also the D.V., Mr. Baker; Mr. Hudson and Mr. Shackleton from Keighley, and others. A
pretty compliment was conveyed to Mrs. Chiswell by Miss Beryl Jackson in a bouquet of
flowers, accompanied by a greeting from the new Lyceum. After suitable
acknowledgments, Mr. Chiswell proceeded with the programmed for the morning. A nice
duet from the Songster was sung by Misses Dora and Ivy Rushworth. Mr. George Howarth
rendered yeoman service in conducting the marching and callisthenics, and he was helped
considerably by the splendid music. Mr. James Law provided. Who could help marching to
such excellent playing? Everyone was delighted, and no one would have guessed it was a
45
Samuel Southern Chiswell died 12th
April 1910 at the age of 58; Chiswell was:—an ardent Spiritualist, a
strenuous worker for the Liverpool Spiritualist Society, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Two
Worlds and played a major part in the foundation of the SNU. He was President of the Spiritualists’
National Federation on several occasions.
46
The A.J. Davies badge image is taken from an actual badge which I have.
47
B.S.L.U:—British Spiritualists Lyceum Union. SNU Spiritualists' Lyceum Union History see:—
http://www.snu.org.uk/Lyceum/history.htm
317
new Lyceum learning its first lesson. It was a long session, but all were unaware that the
parting time had come. Friends from surrounding Lyceums were present, and enjoyed the
memorable affair. The afternoon and evening services were exceedingly enjoyable.
Sowerby Bridge choir led the singing, and sang unaccompanied, two anthems, the first as
an introit, “Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace,” and “The radiant morn.” This shows what
can be done when societies work harmoniously for the general weal. The Lyceum and
Society are one body, governed by one committee, and have one purse. May it prosper and
be a mighty influence for good on the young people of the neighbourhood.
~~~~~~~~
William Greenwood aged only 44, died on Saturday, April 22 1905. His obituary was also
published in the American Spiritualist press:—Banner of Light, which we republish below:
The Passing of William Greenwood, Treasurer of the
British Spiritualists' National Union.
Banner of Light:—48
A notable personality among English Spiritualists passed to the higher life from his late
home at Hebden Bridge, Yorkshire, Eng., on Saturday, April 22, when William Green-
wood, for many years Honorary Treasurer of the British Spiritualists’ National Union, ex-
changed the mortal for the immortal.
Well known for many years to the writer of these lines, our ascended brother leaves the
fragrance of a sweet spirit behind, for as a sterling man, a true friend, a devoted husband, a
loving parent he was socially an ideal personality. In the commercial world, and among his
fellow citizens, he stood high in the regard of all. As a fearless and outspoken Spiritualist
he was a true champion of our work, while in his office as National Treasurer, he was a
faithful official and an untiring worker for the body he served so zealously. To show the
esteem in which he was held we make the following extract from the account given in a
local newspaper of the interment of the body:
“The body was interred at the Sowerby Bridge Cemetery last Tuesday afternoon and
the funeral procession was very imposing. The hearse and three mourning coaches
preceded by quite a hundred people, most of them connected with the Spiritualist
Associations at Hebden Bridge and Sowerby Bridge. There were also present leading
representatives of Spiritualists’ unions, viz.: Messrs. Parr, Hey, Macdonald, Wilkinson,
Briggs, Wright and Phillips (editor of ‘The Two Worlds’), National Union; Messrs.
Alfred Kitson (editor of the ‘Lyceum Banner’) and Mr. A. E. Sutcliffe, of the British
Spiritualists’ Lyceum Union; and Messrs. Baume, Burchell, Yates, Gavin (editor of
‘The Spiritualist’), and Sutcliffe, Yorkshire Union. The Sowerby Bridge Musical
Society was represented by Mr. W. T. Walton, and the Liberal club by Councillors Em.
48
Banner of Light May 13th
1905 page 5.
318
Mitchell, Ely Whitely, and Mr. J. A. Whiteley; the Flour Society by the chairman (Mr.
J. Broadbent), the vice-chairman (Mr. Allatt), the secretary (Mr. J. W. Hodgson),
several members of the Board, Mr. Charles Beswick, cashier, and the office staffs at
Sowerby Bridge and Hebden Bridge. Messrs. Jos. Craven and Leonard Stocks attended
on behalf of the Nutclough Fustian Society, Mr. Abm. Webster (manager), the Hebden
Bridge Co-operative Society, and Mr. James Midgley and Fred Sutcliffe represented the
Hebden Bridge Choral and Harmonic Society. Mr. Holroyd, station master at Hebden
Bridge, and Mr. Parkinson, station master at Sowerby Bridge, were also present. The
service in the cemetery chapel was choral, and both this and the ceremony at the
graveside were exceptionally forcible. They were both conducted according to
Spiritualist formula, Mr. Alfred Kitson, Batley Carr, and Mr. Armitage, Dewsbury
performing the obsequies. In the chapel the choir of the Sowerby Bridge Spiritualists
sang the anthem ‘The radiant morn’ and ‘Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace,’ besides
the hymn, ‘Father, lover of my soul.’ The body was borne to the grave by millers
employee at Breck Mill. It was enclosed in a pitch-pine coffin, with heavy brass
mountings, and inscribed: ‘William Greenwood born April 13th, 1861, died April 22d,
1905.’ The reading at the graveside was undertaken by Mr. Kitson, and Mr. Armitage
contributed invocation. The choir sang here the hymn, ‘Blest be the tie that binds.’
“Beautiful floral tributes with sympathetic messages were sent by the Sowerby
Bridge Liberal Club; the directors of the Flour Society; the Sowerby Bridge Spiritualist
Lyceum; the Hebden Bridge Spiritualist Association; the Sowerby Bridge Spiritualist
choir; the office staffs at Sowerby Bridge and Preck Mills; Mrs. Whitehead; Mr. and
Mrs. J. Mitchell, Breck Mill yard; Mr. J. Chatburn and family; Mr. Mrs. Briggs and
family (Lockwood); Mr. and Mrs, W. T. Walton, Sowerby Bridge; and others.”
American Spiritualists will unite with the “Banner” in sending to Mrs. Greenwood
and her family a message of fraternal sympathy, rejoicing with her that she has the full
knowledge of the truth of our gospel to sustain her in the hours of present sadness.”
[Jessy Greenwood continued her work and become the first woman SNU president; her
work will be outlined in the next issue.]
________________
319
NATIONAL FEDERATION—SPIRITUALISTS’
NATIONAL UNION
A note of explanation for the various names
On July 6th
1890, the first conference (Manchester) was called:—“The National Conference
of British Spiritualists”, also sometimes referred to as the “National Conference of
Spiritualists”. On July 4th
1891, the second conference (Bradford) was called the
“Spiritualists’ National Federation” (SNF). In the next issue of The Two Worlds in a further
report it was named as “National Federation of Spiritualists” (NFS).
Throughout the 1890s the SNF and NFS titles became interchangeable at the yearly
conferences. In the above article, I noted Greenwood became active in 1898 at the
“National Federation” conference which was also used as the conference heading.
The various names for the same organisation can become very confusing, in researching
this period of the early SNU. In future Psypioneer articles I will refer to this period as the
“National Federation” (NF).
At the Thirteenth Annual Conference on Saturday and Sunday 5th
& 6th
July 1902, at
Stanley Hall, Stanley Road, Bootle under the presidency of Mr. W. Johnson:—began the
first conference of the “Spiritualists’ National Union”.
________________
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD: Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. @ £9.99 +Pp £2.00.
‘Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-
9553420-8-0. See Psypioneer 3.11:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K., postage,
elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’ by
John Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
320
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara & Ann
Harrison @ £7.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-
9514534-6-9. See Psypioneer book review:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £14.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism - a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer
Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage. *
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’
Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage.*
*For both Psychic Pioneer Publications £4.50 Inc U.K., postage.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
___________________________
321
