{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v7_n12_dec_2011.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V7 N12 Dec 2011","mylang":"de"}
376
F
Amalgamation of Societies
Lord Dowding – Philip Paul – Two Worlds 377
Beauty ~ Not the Beast – Lady Dowding 381
R.J. Lees as healer – Leslie Price 384
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s Grave – Windlesham to Minstead churchyard 385
A Stitch in Time – Leslie Price 388
Henry (Harry) James Edwards – Philip Paul – Two Worlds 390
Whatever happened to Arnold Clare? – Leslie Price 393
Notes by the way: To be a handmaid – Leslie Price 396
Leslie’s seasonal Quiz 399
Some books we have reviewed 400
How to obtain this Journal by email 401
============================
Psypioneer would like to extend its best wishes to all
its readers and contributors for the festive season and
the coming New Year
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 7, No 12: December 2011
377
Lord Dowding
1882-1970
Story by PHILIP PAUL:1
A MERRY fire danced on the hearth, sending
smoky phantoms to float among the autumn
leaves nodding near the chimneys. Lolling before
the blaze, a plump tabby feline purred sensual
pleasure to a larger fellow, of marmalade hue,
luxuriating among the cushions of the sofa.
Brown-eyed and curly-coated, a faithful old dog
rested his chin upon the toe of his master’s shoe.
Outside, the county of Kent lay serene in the
peace that separates morning bustle from the
diversions of the evening. Within, the talk was
worlds away—of life after death, of philosophy,
of international amity—and of men and machines from outer space. . . .
Air Chief Marshal Hugh Caswall Tremenheere Dowding was born on April 24, 1882.
After an education at Winchester and the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, he joined
the Royal Artillery at 18. The military value of wings was then reaching official realisation.
He transferred to the Royal Flying Corps at the outbreak of the First World War.
Distinguished service
An outstanding career ensued. His 1914-18 service earned him mention in despatches.
In 1919 he became a Companion of the Order of St. Michael and St. George. From 1926 to
1929 he was Director of Training at the Air Ministry; in 1929-30 he commanded the
Fighting Area, Air Defence of Great Britain; for three years from 1930 he was Air Member
for Research and Development of the Air Council; from 1936 to 1940 he was Air Officer
Commanding in Chief of Fighter Command and was Principal Air ADC to the King, 1937-
43. Between 1940 and 1941 he was on special duty in America, responsible to the Minister
of Aircraft Production.
He became a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1928 was created Knight
Commander of the Order of the Bath in 1933, Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian
Order in 1937 and Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath in 1940. He was created a
Baron in 1943.
Retirement from the Royal Air Force, in 1942, gave him a long-awaited opportunity to
pursue his many personal interests. Not least among these was Spiritualism, a subject upon
1
The Two Worlds, October 22nd, 1955 page 7.
378
which his imagination had been fired no fewer than 22 years earlier, when he read a
“Weekly Dispatch” serialisation of the Rev. G. Vale Owen’s “Revelations From Beyond
the Veil.”
Probing death’s mystery
Though he had suffered personal bereavement by the death of his first wife—she
presented him with a son and a daughter—this was not the motive behind his interest. He is
a man accustomed to the acceptance of challenges. To probe the mysteries beyond death
was clearly the greatest—and most irresistible—of them all.
Never was a more penetrating intellect brought to bear upon subject. His findings, and
the personal evidence he received of the survival of RAF colleagues killed in the late war,
have made him our greatest contemporary champion. In his first book on Spiritualism—
“Many Mansions”—he purposely avoided any mention of personal experiences. Since
then, he has published two further outstanding works on the psychic scene—“Lychgate”
and “The Dark Star.”
He is selective in his judgment of the movement. “People talk about Spiritualism as
though it is a homogeneous thing,” he commented drily, “but it isn’t at all. It includes
people doing very spiritual work and others who are engaged in pure sensationalism.” He
has firm views about Spiritualism’s scope and applicability. “According to my definition, a
person is a Spiritualist if he believes (a) in survival after death and (b) that you can
communicate with those in the after-life. But that is very wide net indeed. It covers the
person who goes to a medium to get a tip for the Derby and it can also embrace a
Confucian, a Buddhist or a Hindu.”
To end torture
For years he has striven to awaken human conscience concerning the cruelties visited
upon helpless animals in the names of science and sport. His courageous speeches and
shocking disclosures in this connection in the House of Lords have been of incalculable
value towards the re-education of men who regard tortured, torn and terrified creatures as
the triumphant conclusion of commendable recreation fitting victims to the advancement of
medicine.
Yet his benevolence does not exclude humanity. He was for a long period an active
member of Marylebone Spiritualist Association’s group for the treatment of obsessions. He
rejoiced in this work, which saved many victims from incarceration in asylums. He is
convinced that a heavy percentage of those whom doctors label as schizophrenics are, in
fact, cases of obsession.
Of moderate build and stature, with iron-grey hair and moustache and an expression of
sobriety that belies his facile nature, he sat back in his comfortable, floral-covered
armchair. The temptation was too great for the purring one, who landed squarely on his lap.
379
While he stroked the tabby fur, the talk turned to another of his engrossments—the problem
of Flying Saucers.
Here, it was soon clear, is an enigma after his own heart. Against the background of the
fantastic implications involved in the possibility of vehicular travel between the planets of
the universe, the riddle of the Unidentified Flying Objects holds scope for the analyst, the
strategist, the linguist, the occultist, the militarist, the scientist—and the romanticist.
But there is nothing romantic about Lord Dowding’s approach to UFOs. “I examine the
evidence with an open mind,” he affirms. Producing the recent works of Messrs. Leslie,
Adamski and Keyhoe on the subject, he was unhesitant in announcing his positive
convictions from the evidence they offer. He is president of the Tunbridge Wells branch of
the Flying Saucer Club.
Because of ignorance
To a question seeking his opinion concerning the effects which the arrival of visitors
from other worlds might produce upon international relationships, he declared: “People are
always afraid of what they don’t understand. Recently, we were studying reports of a
landing in Northern Italy. People had disembarked from a saucer and were promptly
attacked by a crowd numbering about 200. A newspaper report of the incident included the
comment, “Unfortunately, none of the local inhabitants was provided with firearms!”
So it seems that the early arrivals from Mars, Venus, Saturn or points beyond must
come prepared for a lively reception. But Lord Dowding remarked: “It does not follow that
all these vehicles—and there have been thousands of sightings—come from the same place.
Some may be benevolent and some may be rather neutral. We have got to guard against
going from the particular to the general. The contacts I have studied all appear to be
intensely benevolent. They say they would never take a human life.”
However the cynic may view this statement, he must surely agree that, if benevolence
be a mark of the moral advancement of a species, the humanity of this world can scarcely
anticipate winning an inter planetary championship.
Lord Dowding is unperturbed by “blow hot, blow cold” American Air Force statements
about UFOs or the British Government’s silence on the subject. “You know what
officialdom is. If they can’t explain everything that happens, they pretend it doesn’t
happen.
“Flying Saucers are rather like Spiritualism. A single instance could be put down to
fraud or coincidence. But say that there are six cases which need examining. Even though
two of them are terrible lies made up to make money or for some motive, if you get one
report you can accept the whole case is open. Many people want to be convinced by one
particular incident. But the question is one which is built up from many incidents.”
380
Believes in fairies
Preparing for the well-nigh impossible task of telling the Saucers story in an eight-
minute Independent Television broadcast, he lamented, “I could give a series of six one-
hour lectures on the subject!”
As well as accepting the testimonies which say that men from other worlds travel at
fabulous speeds across æons of space to land upon our globe, Lord Dowding is convinced
of the existence on earth of little people so small that, for the most part, human beings over-
look them.
Again on the basis of his examination of the evidence; he is satisfied that elemental
sprites carry out basic functions in the development of flowers, the movement of water and
like duties. Here, he has the constant encouragement of a firsthand witness in the person of
his charming wife, who clearly recalls her meetings with fairies in child-hood days.
After the warning
Her youthful stories of these encounters so alarmed the adults of her household that they
endeavoured to stop her “imaginings” by warning her that, if she did not turn her attention
elsewhere, she would be stamped upon her forehead and posted to Sir James Barrie, who
knew how to deal with little girls who saw fairies.
The effect of this threat was surprising but logical. After it, she diligently collected
pieces of bread and cake at mealtimes and, at suitable opportunities, thrust these offerings
into pillar-boxes as sustenance for all the friends of fairies she thought must be waiting
within, en route to the creator of Peter Pan.
It was through Spiritualism that Lord Dowding met his delightful, auburn-haired lady.
They were introduced by a mutual friend, healer Dorothy Kerin, two years after Lady
Dowding, then the widow of a Bomber Command pilot killed on active service,
experienced a precognitive dream in which she saw her future husband and involuntarily
called his first name. She was puzzled about the identity of the stranger who had invaded
her sleep, until her mother gave her a copy of “Many Mansions.” In it, she saw a
photograph of the author—the man in her dream.
Convinced reincarnationists, the Dowdings believe that their marriage, in 1951, was the
beginning of another partnership to follow many they have shared in earlier lives. Even
those who argue against rebirth will grant that, with such a companion awaiting him, no
man could have had better reason for seeking repeated earthly personifications.
——§——
381
Beauty ~ Not the Beast
An Autobiography:2
[Introductory note by LP:—We are reprinting below an account given by Lady Dowding
herself, the widow of Max Whiting. Readers will notice it differs from the account quoted
in Two Worlds above. In Psypioneer May 2005 we gave another experience of tea with
Lord Dowding,3
in that case involving Col. Lester.]
I received a kindly reply and acknowledgement of my letter to Lord Dowding, seeking
information about Max. Then, some months later, I had another letter from the Air Chief
Marshal, saying that he rather thought my husband had made contact at a recent
spiritualistic sitting. The next time I was coming to London, Lord Dowding said, would I
let him know and he would introduce me to his medium. Naturally, still desperate for
definite news of Max's fate, I immediately arranged to go to London.
Lord Dowding’s invitation was to lunch at the United Services Club in Pall Mall. When I
arrived I was only aware of a very thin, tall man in a grey suit and with grey hair, escorting
me into the Club lounge. I scarcely glanced at him. My attention was almost entirely fixed
upon the medium to whom he introduced me, a Mrs. Hunt. Over lunch, she did practically
all the talking and left hurriedly soon after to go to a matinee, she said, with a friend.
It all seemed to happen so quickly that she did not even bother to give me an
appointment for a sitting and, when she left, I felt a little downcast. Until that moment, I
don’t believe I had any particular interest in Lord Dowding, except for the hope that,
indirectly, he might help me get news of Max. In fact, I knew very little about the Air Chief
Marshal, except that there had been a lot of public indignation when, following the Battle
of Britain, he had been dismissed as Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Fighter Comand
in 1940.
After Mrs. Hunt had bustled out, Lord Dowding said: ‘If you don’t have to go at once,
would you care to stay and have tea with me?’
As he came around to move back my chair so that we could return to the lounge, I
suppose I looked at him properly for the first time.
In that instantaneous glance, I knew. He was the person I had known as a little girl, the
figure in khaki who calmed me after my nightmares and promised that we would marry. He
was the man I had seen balancing the black elephants at the cottage in Kilve.
In my astonishment at this sudden rush of recognition, I gasped: ‘Hugh!’
2
Beauty ~ Not the Beast, An Autobiography - The Rt. Hon. Muriel, the Lady Dowding, Neville Spearman,
Jersey, 1980, pages 86-91.
3
Psypioneer Volume 1, No.13:—A talk over the tea table – Reginald Lester, pages 149 -150:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP13.pdf
382
Then, before I could even begin to feel embarrassed at having been so over-familiar, he
said, quietly and kindly: ‘How charming of you to call me that.’
I looked at him. He was older than I, though by how much I could not have said. He was
handsome, distinguished, experienced, a man of obvious fine manners and breeding. I was
a young woman, well-dressed, well brought up, it was true, but I was young all the same. A
young, somewhat bewildered and distressed war widow, like so many others at that time.
And as I looked at him, I realised suddenly that, although I felt I knew him, had known him
since I was a child, had felt his comforting presence even later when I received the dreadful
telegram about Max ... he didn’t know me at all!
Was it still, then, just some strange trick of time or psychological make-up, coupled
perhaps with a childhood imagination that had lingered later in my life? Was that all the
explanation there was for making me connect this distinguished man’s appearance with the
fantasy-figure of my waking dreams?
Quietly, we sat in the club lounge the whole afternoon. He was speaking quietly of
many things. Mostly, he talked of the lost airmen whose families and dependents he so
desperately wanted to help, by bringing them positive news of their loved ones, through
any available channel, whether by ordinary intelligence reports, or through the vehicle of a
spiritualistic medium.
I sat listening quietly, almost embarrassed at my innermost thoughts, turning over in my
mind my disappointment at not having gained any positive news about Max from the
medium to whom I had been introduced. Part of my mind also wondered about the strange
trick of fate, coincidence - or whatever it was - that had superimposed the image of this
man on my earlier life in such a haunting and unusual way. And yet, he obviously did not
appear to recognise me at all ...
Suddenly, a waiter appeared beside our table.
‘Will you be staying to dinner, my Lord?’
Lord Dowding turned to me.
‘Do please stay to dinner,’ he said.
Suddenly remembering myself, I said rather abruptly:
‘Whatever is the time?’
‘Seven-thirty.’
‘But I have a little boy to put to bed!’ I exclaimed. And I got up quickly and, I suppose,
rather rudely rushed out of the Club with him running along at my heels. He followed me
383
as I dashed the short distance to Charing Cross Station and as we got there a Tunbridge
Wells train was waiting at the platform. He helped me aboard.
Breathlessly, I apologised for my hasty departure, he closed the carriage door behind
me, waved ... and the train pulled out. All the way home I thought about him.
‘That is the nicest person I have ever met,’ I told myself. ‘I shall never see him again ...
but what a dear person he is.’
Three days later I received a letter from him, saying that he would arrange a sitting for
me with a very good medium. He had, he said, taught himself a type of shorthand and, if I
didn’t feel that it was too personal, he could come along as my scribe if I so wished. He
knew, he said, how difficult it was to attend a sitting and to try to take notes. Also, would I
care to go to the theatre afterwards and, if so, what would I like to see?
What would I like to see? The man I thought I might never see again was asking me
what I would like to see! I wanted to see only him ... that would be enough.
And so, in this rather roundabout and indirect way, the great romance of my life began.
In his book, Many Mansions, Hugh had conveyed his belief that, under certain
conditions, it was possible to establish communication between this world and the next and,
as a result, he had been inundated with letters from widows and mothers with loved ones
who had been lost. Some years after we met, I asked him: ‘Did you invite them all out to
lunch?’
‘Only you,’ he said. ‘Because your husband asked me to.’ When I asked what he meant,
Hugh explained that he believed that my first husband, Max, had actually contacted him
through a spiritualist medium - to which he had obliquely referred in his letter inviting me
to lunch.
‘When this airman, Max, came through and had identified himself to me, ‘Lord
Dowding explained,’ ‘he said, “I wish you would take my wife out to lunch - you will like
her.” ’
So it is true to say that, in an indirect sense, it was my father-in-law, Mr Whiting, and
Max, who eventually brought about my meeting with Hugh.
——§——
384
R.J. LEES AS
HEALER
Testimony to the later healing work of
Robert James Lees is included in a new
book by Stephen Butt, Paranormal
Leicester.4
Stephen is known to Psypioneer readers as
the man who solved the mystery of
Georgiana Eagle the clairvoyant girl who
demonstrated before Queen Victoria,5
and
as the leading authority on the life of Lees.6
The patient was a distant relative of Lees, to
whom he was known in childhood as
“Uncle James”. When age 7, the child,
whose name was John, and whose life was
in doubt, had hands laid on his shoulders by
Lees. This was a frightening experience,
but John ceased to be sickly.
“There was no doubt that he was a holy man” John wrote to Stephen in 1986
“but I always felt in terror of him… He was a kindly man and really not to be
feared, but his constant communication with the ‘other world’ meant that to be
in a house with him could have some very unusual results.”7
Stephen also tells the story of two lost caches of Lees papers which he has helped retrieve.
His chapter on Lees is the most authoritative account of the medium available. It should be
used by Press and other writers on Lees who are often beguiled by Eva, daughter of Lees.
LP.
——§——
4
Amberley Publishing, (28 September 2011) £9.99 See:—http://www.stephenbutt.co.uk/paranormal.htm
5
Psypioneer Volume 1, No. 15/16:—Georgiana Eagle – Queen Victoria’s Clairvoyant Revealed – By
Stephen Butt, pages 174 – 196:— http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/15-16.PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
6
Psypioneer Volume 5, No. 12:—Robert James Lees and the Revd Thomas Ashcroft – Stephen Butt, pages
384 – 395:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5%2012December09.pdf Also the web site:—www.rjlees.co.uk
7
See page 58. (accompanying Photograph Psypioneer archives)
385
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s Grave
Windlesham to Minstead churchyard
Sir Arthur died on July 7th, 1930 at home, at Crowborough, Sussex. Four days later he was
buried in the grounds of his beautiful house, Windlesham.
LIGHT July 19th, 1930:
THE flag at the club-
house on the
Crowborough golf
links flew at half mast
on Friday, July the
11th; it was almost
the only outward sign
of mourning at the
funeral of a great
captain of men. For
the occasion was one
in which death was
robbed of its terrors—
a Spiritualist Funeral.
On the lawn at the back of Sir Arthur’s beautiful house, “Windlesham,” a
great concourse of men and women of all ranks of life, stood in a square about
the massive coffin on which rested a beautiful trophy of red roses.
The service was simple. It was conducted by the Rev. Charles Drayton
Thomas and the Rev. C. C. Angell, a relative of the family. The latter read
passages from the Scriptures: Psalm CXXI (“I will lift up my eyes unto the
hills”), Ecclesiastes XII (“Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl
be broken”), Malachi III (“And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of Hosts, in
that day when I make up my jewels”), and I. Corinthians XIII (“Love suffereth
long and is kind”), these being Sir Arthur's favourite passages. Mr. Drayton
Thomas offered an impressive impromptu prayer which he followed by reading
a paper that was described as “an expression by Lady Conan Doyle and the
whole family of their attitude towards death and the larger life,” it being also a
heartfelt tribute to the splendid and unselfish life of Sir Arthur.
The two well-known hymns, “Open my eyes” and “God be with you till we
meet again,” were sung with fervour, and then, following the coffin, the great
gathering reverently made its way to the grave beside the summer-house which
Sir Arthur had used as an outdoor study.
386
Here Mr. Drayton Thomas read the final passages from the document—an
affecting apostrophe to the departed one; and Mr. Ernest Oaten added a few
words of simple eloquence.
——§——
Lady Conan Doyle died in 1940 and was buried next to her husband; and in 1955 the
bodies were exhumed and moved to Minstead, in the New Forest.
In July 2010, Psypioneer marked the 80th Anniversary of his death.8
Garth Willey brought
us further details of Sir Arthur’s burial and his and Lady Conan Doyle’s re-interment in the
following Psypioneer issue – complete with a photograph of the grave stone as it stands
today.9
Now we bring to our readers a report from Maurice Barbanell, then editor of The Two
Worlds,10
on the re-interment:
CONAN DOYLE EXHUMATION MAKES
FRONT-PAGE NEWS
The Two Worlds:—11
THE bodies of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and his wife featured in a story that began almost
as a Sherlock Holmes thriller last weekend. When, however, members of the family
explained the reasons for the secret exhumation the mystery almost entirely fizzled out.
The first account was front-page news in the “Daily Express” last Saturday, quickly
followed by the London “Evening News,” which made the story the main feature on its
front page.
Thereafter nearly every national and Sunday newspaper featured the happenings—a
tribute to the magic of the Conan Doyle name.
“Dawn Mystery in Village” was one “Daily Express” headline. Its reporter said that the
villagers of Crowborough, Sussex, were talking about “the last mystery of Sherlock
Holmes” because of the secrecy surrounding the exhumation.
8
Psypioneer Volume 6. No.7:— 80th anniversary of the passing of ACD, pages 179 – 185:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.7.July2010.pdf
9
Psypioneer Volume 6. No.8:— 80th anniversary of the passing of ACD - Addendum by Garth Willey, pages
214-215:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.8August2010.pdf
10
Maurice Barbanell (1902-1981), editor of the Two Worlds 1957c – 1981
11
The Two Worlds, July 9, 1955 page 4.
387
CLOAKED IN MYSTERY
With the headline, “Diggers Sworn to Secrecy,” the London “Evening News” said “No
Sherlock Holmes adventure was ever cloaked in deeper mystery than that which wreathed
the exhumation of his creator. “It added erroneously that the memorial garden with its two
graves had become a shrine for Spiritualists.
This newspaper referred to Doyle’s Spiritualism and mentioned how throughout her
long illness, which preceeded her passing, Lady Doyle was comforted by spirit messages
from her husband.
At the end of this account was given one of the reasons for the exhumation. The house,
Windlesham, is to be sold. The family had decided that the bodies of Sir Arthur and Lady
Doyle, together with the ashes of their son Denis, should be buried together in a new family
grave.
The graves, however, do not form part of the ground which is to be sold. They are part
of a cottage which was owned by Denis and is now the property of his widow, the former
Princess Mdivani.
PERMANENT REST
Then the situation was complicated on Saturday night. A statement was issued by the
senior partner of a firm of solicitors acting for the Conan Doyle estate.
“There is no mystery about it at all,” he said. “The bodies are being taken to a
permanent resting place in the family vault.” As there is no family vault, his statement did
not help to clarify matters. “I cannot say where the family vault is,” he added. Obviously he
could not because it does not exist.
On Sunday, Jean, Sir Arthur’s daughter a group-captain in the Women’s Royal Air
Force, said that the bodies were exhumed because there were no grandchildren to take over
the family house. It was her mother’s last wish that her grandchildren should live at
Windlesham.
BODIES IN NEW FOREST
Adrian Conan Doyle who is living in Portugal, explained that he was having the bodies
reinterred in Minstead churchyard in the heart of the New Forest. It was there that the
Conan Doyles had a cottage. It was also there that Sir Arthur wrote “The White Company,”
which Adrian described as his father’s most famous book, with the New Forest as a
background.
The “Sunday Express” quoted him as saying that he was sure his father would like to
rest there. Adrian, of course, must have been misreported. He knows the difference
between his father and his father’s earthly body.
388
In a later statement Jean Conan Doyle said that the family, for several years, had felt
that it would be better to move their parents’ bodies to some more permanent place.
Eventually the garden where the bodies were buried would pass into other hands.
When I read the hullabaloo concerning the exhumation, my mind went back to the
strange burial service of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in his garden 25 years ago. This curiously
enough, was conducted by a Church of England parson and was almost orthodox.
It was cold, formal, and contained no reference to the positive evidence of survival, the
central propaganda to which Sir Arthur devoted so many years of his life.
INSPIRED ORATION
When it was over and we were all leaving, feeling puzzled as to why Spiritualism’s
message had not been stressed, Lady Doyle stopped Ernest Oaten and asked if be would
like to say a few words.
The famous Spiritualist closed his eyes for a few moments. The crowd gathered round
him. Then, obviously inspired he delivered a panegyric of Conan Doyle which was a
perfect epitome of his Spiritualist outlook and struck just the right note for a Spiritualist
funeral.
The chagrin of the many Spiritualists who were present was transformed as a result of
the inspired words that flowed from the semi-entranced Oaten.
M.B.
——§——
A STITCH IN TIME
Timelines are valuable aids to learning, which is why we encounter them on the walls of
primary classrooms (reminding us the Romans came before the Anglo-Saxons,) and in
daily newspapers to clarify the latest crisis. The SNU has a timeline which with variations
it has used for thirty years. It lately appears in a glossy magazine One Union sent to
individual SNU members.
The problem with timelines, like other reference sources, is that the more detail, the more
danger of errors. It is not a good idea to reprint a previous version without checking.
Sometimes a typing error can creep in.
“1949 – Celebration of the Centenary of Modern Spiritualism took place in the Royal
Albert Hall” is an example of this, especially as earlier in the table 1848 is given as the year
of birth.
389
But what can one say about “1932 Psychic News was founded by Arthur Findlay”. Surely
the SNU remember their minister Maurice Barbanell, first editor of Psychic News? Indeed
when they acquired PN in 1995, they reprinted in New Communicator an account by
Barbanell of the PN origin, which was summarised in Psypioneer January 2005.12
In
October 2007,13
Psypioneer reprinted an earlier article by Barbie in which he set out the
sequence. Findlay’s money was indispensable for the survival of PN in 1932, and
obviously he is venerated at Stansted, but PN was not his idea.
There are also doubtful dates about Keighley in Yorkshire. “1853—the first Spiritualist
church opened in Keighley by David Richmond.” This is a reference to the Spiritual
Brotherhood formed there which was not a church—see Psypioneer May 2006.14
The
suggestion “1852—the first public demonstration of mediumship by Mrs W.R. Hayden in
Great Britain was at Keighley.” cannot be correct. She only arrived in London from the
States in October 1852 (see Psypioneer October 200615
) and was based in London during
her stay. We can agree that the Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph was started in Keighley in
1855, though none other than the husband of Mrs Hayden brought out one issue of a
newspaper The Spirit World in 1853.
These examples, which could be supplemented, remind us that timelines are not easy to
construct. But reference to back issues of Psypioneer can help. Unfortunately psychic
websites will often copy historical names and dates without checking, which is one reason
why we prefer to reprint original accounts.
LP.
——§——
12
Psypioneer Volume 1, No. 9:—Psychic News in perspective, pages 96 -97:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP9.pdf
13
Psypioneer Volume 3, No. 10:—Three “Dead” Men Began Psychic News – Maurice Barbanell, pages 215
– 221:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.10October07.pdf
14
Psypioneer Volume 2, No. 5:—Keighley celebration 1882, pages 105 – 106:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/2.5%20PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
15
Psypioneer Volume 2, No. 10:—Mrs. Hayden’s visit to England in 1852-3, pages 212 – 230:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.10October06.pdf
390
Henry (Harry) James Edwards
1893-1976
BY PHILIP PAUL:16
HOPE, the old adage proclaims, has
eternal birth within the human breast.
Given a healthy breast, the saying is
largely true. But when that organ is wrung
by pain or distorted by disease, the eternal
qualities of hope are apt to become
diminished. And when, as sometimes
happens, neither medicine nor surgery are
of avail, hope’s tide is wont to ebb beyond
the limits of human view.
LEADER OF ARMY
Yet even then man has arms against the
slings and arrows of such outrageous
fortune. They are forged, not of steel, but
of flesh. Their names number many
thousands. They are an army which
marches to bring courage to the crucified, amelioration to the maimed and aid to the
afflicted. In its vanguard is a silver-haired, rosy-checked 62-year-old. His name is Harry
Edwards.
This man is no saintly recluse. He is vital, but human. His life has included its quota of
the foibles of homo sapiens. Yet through his years has run a priceless thread—compassion
for those who suffer.
Born in Lambeth in 1893, he was the eldest of nine children who were raised on his
compositor-father’s wage of £1 19s. a week. His youthful reputation was such that
neighbours instructed their offspring not to associate with him.
This stormy start led to a 6s.-a-week apprenticeship in a publishing house, an active role
in the boy scout movement, a passionate belief in Liberalism and a lively abhorrence of
vivisection.
COURT-MARTIAL
Once, he silenced a stormy political meeting with the poignant sentence, “There is a
Titantic disaster every week in the deaths from consumption.”
16
The Two Worlds, June 11th, 1955 page 5.
391
In 1914 he enlisted in the Royal Sussex Territorial Cyclist Battalion, at Brighton.
Spying his thin, uniformed figure on the pier, a critical female sniffed. “And a real gun,
too!” To enliven a life of watching the Channel for submarines, he caught (and fried)
mackerel and speared fruit from traders stalls with his bayonet.
After a court-martial in England—the charge was dismissed—was posted to Bangalore.
There, he started an army newspaper and published radical views which earned him
another court-martial. Next, he saw service on the North Western Frontier of India, in
Baghdad and elsewhere. In Persia he saw the results of Russo-Turkish conflict—dead
littered the streets and children fell victims to cannibalism.
Here, his healing began. It took the form of castor oil and carbolic powders administered
to the primitive people. Once he was offered gold and carpets in thanks for a cure. He
refused them—but accepted 300 eggs for his mess. At his departure the road was lined with
weeping people crying, “You are our father and mother, do not a leave us!”
IN THE PRINT
Back in England, he opened a printing business with his £800 savings and gratuity, took
a mortgage on a house and, with difficulty, bought a wedding ring for his bride. Soon, he
was hundreds of pounds in debt and on familiar terms with a summonses and bailiffs. But
by 1931 there were a son, three daughters—and better times.
Storming through the political scene as a Liberal orator, he first contacted Spiritualism
at the Clements Road, Ilford, Church. His interest developed through membership of a
circle and he acquired trance mediumship. His spirit healing began with experiments in his
home circle. The early cures included cases of galloping consumption, haemorrhage,
pleurisy, cancer of the lung, cataract and even a deformity from birth.
THREE MILLION LETTERS
News of these successes spread and soon began the absent healing which has brought
him close on three million letters. He found himself able to “astral travel” and visited many
patients in this way. Development and experience taught him to abandon the magnetic
healing practices of passes, “flinging away” disease, washing hands between treatments
and “blowing power” through handkerchiefs.
Later came friendship with physical medium, Jack Webber. It ended one night when,
seated the sick on medium’s bed after giving him healing, Harry sang with him his
favourite song—“Danny Boy.” Next day Webber was dead. Two years later, he
materialised to friends through another physical medium, Arnold Clare.
FROM A TO Z
Since then, Edwards has travelled a long road of ever-increasing service. Giving up
business to devote his life to healing, he moved, 1946, to Burrows Lea, a delightful and
392
dignified home for his work in the peace of Surrey countryside. Everything from migraine
to marital incompatibility has passed through his hands with beneficial results.
Hundreds of thousands, patient and spectators, have flocked to his sensationally-
successful demonstrations all over the United Kingdom and on the Continent. His works
are acclaimed by the Press, envied by men of medicine—he has healed many of them; “the
truth is we medicos have failed in both diagnosis and treatment,” wrote one—and
examined by the Church.
90% SUCCESS
Edwards remains unruffled by the uproar; he is immersed in the betterment of those
who, abandoned and condemned by orthodox practitioners, journey to him in coachloads
and sometimes from across the world. Young and old, obscure and distinguished, they
speak of fearful pain and dread disease. He nods briefly and the plump, pink hands move
busily. Invariably, the corner is turned.
The records kept by his secretaries reveal successes of 85 to 90 per cent—most of them
the “incurables” of medicine and surgery. In these achievements, he is aided by his faithful
lieutenants, Olive and George Burton.
A modern man of “miracles,” this silver-haired saviour has struck a note of hope that
echoes around our desperately needy globe.
——§——
393
Whatever happened
to Arnold Clare?
In January 1948, the SPR Journal reported on the
reactions to its financial offer to physical mediums.
Among the names of mediums was Arnold Clare.
“Arnold Clare (direct voice) said he had periods
when he could get no phenomena, and we had
asked him at such a time.”
In contrast to this sole appearance in psychical
research, AC has an assured place in the history of
Spiritualism, as one of two physical mediums
about whom Harry Edwards wrote books. But
whereas Jack Webber died young, Arnold lived on.
In his biography of Harry Edwards Born to Heal17
Paul Miller identifies ways in which Edwards was
influenced by Arnold’s work.
“There are several views on the production of physical phenomena—apart from those who
declare that they cannot possibly be true—and it is to Peter18
that Edwards owes the
development of his own views, some of which do not agree with opinions put forward by
others.” (p.60).
Secondly, Jack Webber materialised at a Clare séance held in Webber’s séance room, the
clearest physical manifestation ever seen by Edwards, which he regarded as absolute proof
of survival.
In his 1982 biography of Harry Edwards, Ramus Branch speaks of Arnold Clare “whom he
often declared had the gift of physical mediumship to an even greater extent than that of
Jack.” Branch says of the Webber materialisation through Clare “This was Henry’s first
personal proof of survival and it meant a good deal to him…..”. (p. 83.)
Peter had some influence on the evolution of the healing philosophy of Edwards, for we
read in a footnote by Harry Edwards in his book The Mediumship of Arnold Clare:19
17
New and revised impression, 1962
18
Guide of Clare’s circle—LP
19
Rider 1941/2, page 27
394
“A further work dealing with the science of healing, spiritual and magnetic, has
already been commenced by the author with the collaboration of and
explanations by Peter.”
This was The Science of Spirit Healing which went through at least three editions and five
impressions. It included an appreciation to Clare and his guide Peter for sitting several
times and speaking on healing, the content being quoted in the book.
Arnold Clare eventually became a priest in the Liberal Catholic Church. When he retired, a
Liberal Catholic Church bishop, John Wheaton wrote a tribute which appeared in an LCC
newsletter in summer 1989. The text of this was approved by Arnold. The funeral of
Arnold Clare was on 18 June 1991. We are very grateful to John Wheaton for providing a
copy of this tribute via Jim Pym, and for giving permission for it to be reprinted below.
RETIREMENT OF FR. ARNOLD CLARE
We hear from Rev. John Wheaton that Fr. Arnold Clare of the Exeter Oratory, now aged
88, has reluctantly decided to stop taking public services, although he still attends the
Oratory, giving the benefit of his experience of the inner life. He has led a full and varied
life and readers may like to know something of this, and, in particular, the way in which his
spiritual life developed to the point where he was ordained in The Liberal Catholic Church
in 196l.
Arnold Clare was born in Felixstowe in 1901. He left school at 12 and started working
for a grocer. At 15 he went to sea under sail on coastal ships. Shortly after, he joined the
Royal Navy. During World War I he saw service as a wireless operator with the Dover
Patrol. He also served on destroyers and light cruisers escorting convoys. In 1917 he was
given shore duties on Mt. Athos reporting the movements of German submarines.
At this time he met Fr. John, a Greek Orthodox priest and they spent much time together
discussing philosophy and mysticism, etc. In 1919 he went overland with a Naval
expedition to the Caspian where, on converted merchant ships mounted with guns taken
from their own ships, they chased Russian destroyers crewed by Bolshevik forces.
Invited home by the Russian Master of his ship, Arnold was surprised to find that, after
the evening meals, the Captain’s wife would play the mandolin and then start talking in an
odd voice (in Russian, of course). Arnold didn’t recognise this as a trance state, but later,
when the lady started speaking in English, with the voice of his late friend, Fr. John, and
carried on his teaching where he had left off, light started to dawn. Arnold returned home
and never went to sea again but worked in Royal Navy wireless stations.
Early in 1920 the Navy sent him to Cambridge to study mathematics as related to
magnetism and electricity. Shortly after marrying Vera Lawson in 1921 he started to use a
pendulum, again being contacted by Fr. John, who gave him further teachings via
automatic writing. At 28, when told he had T.B. he prayed and was told by Fr. John not to
worry as he had work to do and would be cured. An examination two months later showed
395
that he was completely clear. He become associated with a Spiritualist Church in
Scarborough and later started a healing circle in Winchester.
1933 found him working at the Admiralty and also studying Astrology in depth
becoming a practitioner and lecturer in this field. In 1937 he joined Harry Edwards Balham
Spiritualist Church, becoming its Hon. Sec. in 1939, the year after his mediumship became
apparent.
Commissioned in the Royal Navy in 1941, he and his wife opened their own church -
The Trinity of Spiritual Fellowship. Due to the London blitz an alternative bomb-proof
Admiralty was built with Arnold, single-handed, fitting it out with a world-wide wireless
capability. Long working hours and continuing healing work resulted in a heart attack and
Arnold was medically discharged from the Navy in 1944, with his marriage broken under
the strain. He went to live quietly in the country taking up egg production, breeding angora
rabbits for bloodstock and wool which he learned to spin. 1941 was also the year that Harry
Edwards wrote the book “The Mediumship of Arnold Clare” which caused a rift between
them as Edwards had stressed the psychic phenomena at the expense of Arnold’s, or rather
Fr. John’s, teaching. Arnold still worked with Harry Edwards, lecturing and running two
healing centres. In 1945 he was told by Fr. John to finish with physical mediumship.
Fr. Arnold was ordained as a priest in the Old Catholic Orthodox Church but resigned
shortly afterwards. With his new wife Ruby he bought a run-down restaurant and cake shop
in 1949 and managed to build this into a thriving business. He is still a very good cook to
this day. In 1951 they moved to Torquay where he had two healing sanctuaries and he
joined the Theosophical Society.
In 1961 he was ordained into the Liberal Catholic Church and started an Oratory in the
Theosophical Lodge with Fr. Richard Hall as priest-in-charge. In 1963 he moved to
Trusham where he built an Oratory. In 1972, the year his wife died, he started holding
services in Exeter. A year later he married Diana Kerr-Jones, a well known Theosophical
lecturer and moved to Milford on Sea where he set up a successful Oratory. 1976 saw them
moving back to Devon, again setting up an Oratory and being involved in the new purpose-
built Exeter Oratory. In 1982 they moved again to Great Clacton but returned in 1986 to
take up work at the Exeter Oratory. In 1983 Arnold’s expertise as an Exorcist was
recognised in the comprehensive book by Leslie Watkins – The Real Exorcists.
——§——
Leslie Watkins, who wrote The Real Exorcists (Methuen, 1983) was an experienced
journalist, then living in Devon, and Father Clare was among the exorcists he interviewed
about his methods. (Watkins, p. 22-4 especially) which included the use of salt, juniper and
laurel. (We have already featured in Psypioneer March 2006 another LCC priest with a
psychic background, Ernest Butler, who was a prolific exorcist.)
The book by Harry Edwards The Mediumship of Arnold Clare has been relatively
neglected. It was one of the last treatises to emerge from the inter-war flowering of London
Spiritualism, with a challenging mix of evidence and philosophy. In his foreword, Edwards
396
wrote “Frequently, during these sittings, the air-raid sirens would be heard and the local
anti-aircraft guns would be in action”.
LP.
——§——
Notes by the Way:
To be a Handmaid
Do you know the name of the most famous medium? Probably not, as she did not have one
in the original report. The medium at En Dor in ancient Israel was consulted by the first
Israelite King, Saul. The incident appears in the Jewish Bible, 1.Samuel chapter 28, and is
therefore known wherever the Bible is read. However, so far as I am aware, this chapter is
never read as a Sunday lesson in Christian churches!
Because of his sins, King Saul had been abandoned by God. The prophet Samuel, who had
originally anointed him, had disowned him, and passed away. Saul could get no guidance
from official diviners.
Therefore, he consulted a medium – even though he had made mediumship illegal, partly
because it was also practised by non-Israelites. Saul was in a deadly conflict not only with
the Philistines, but also with his anointed successor, the former shepherd David.
Saul was what today we would call a war criminal. Here’s an incident in the fight against
David. Saul thought someone had helped David and called in a killer on Saul’s staff, who
“fell upon the priests, and slew on that day fourscore and five persons that did wear a linen
ephod. And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and
women, children and sucklings, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the
sword.”
The linen ephod was used for divination, so whether we call the first group of victims,
priests or official oracles, this was the start of a heinous atrocity. It was this desperate king
who turned up at En Dor in disguise. Courageously the medium agreed to sit for him. But
when she saw the shade of Samuel, she realised it was Saul himself and that her life was
even more in danger. Saul promised her protection.
Saul for his part knew it was Samuel. The prophet appeared in the same mantle he had
worn at their last meeting. “Why have you disturbed me” Samuel demanded. He reminded
Saul that he was already doomed for his sins, and added that he and his sons would shortly
die in battle.
This has to be a strong contender for the most distressing message ever conveyed by
mediumship. Naturally it left Saul prostrate. But the medium, helped by his servants,
prevailed upon the King to eat something.
397
This case has been a stumbling block for religious authorities ever since. Some rabbis could
not accept the plain statement that Samuel had returned, nor could some Christian
theologians. “When the woman saw Samuel” we read, but strangely some who champion
scriptural inerrancy on other occasions have denied this. It was fraud they say, or even, it
was a demon. Or if it did happen it was because God intervened—just this once!
Unflattering words are applied to the medium, of which “witch” is the favourite. She was
an old hag, or alternatively, she was a young temptress.
Actually, in later Jewish tradition, she was someone’s mother; she was Zephaniah, mother
of Abner, cousin of Saul.
But one person who was once much read by preachers, gave her due credit. This was the
Jewish historian Josephus, who in his “Antiquities” retold the story of his people for a non-
Jewish audience.
Of the woman he wrote “Now she had one calf that she was very fond of, and one that she
took a great deal of care of, and fed it herself; for she was a woman that got her living by
the labour of her own hands, and had no other possession but that one calf; this she killed,
and made ready its flesh, and set it before his servants and himself.”
Josephus further comments; and I hope you will forgive this long quote because its
sentiments are important.
“Now it is but just to recommend the generosity of this woman, because when the king had
forbidden her to use that art whence her circumstances were bettered and improved, and
when she had never seen the king before, she still did not remember to his disadvantage
that he had condemned her sort of learning, and did not refuse him as a stranger, and one
that she had had no acquaintance with; but she had compassion upon him, and comforted
him, and exhorted him to do what he was greatly averse to, and offered him the only
creature she had, as a poor woman, and that earnestly, and with great humanity, while she
had no requital made her for her kindness, nor hunted after any future favour from him, for
she knew he was to die; whereas men are naturally either ambitious to please those that
bestow benefits upon them, or are very ready to serve those from whom they may receive
some advantage.”
Here then is an authority, to whom scholars turn for extra information beyond the Bible, on
such persons as John the Baptist, James the brother of Jesus, and especially King Herod.
Perhaps Josephus was sympathetic to the medium because he too had once seen the future
at a critical time. Josephus went over to the Romans during the Jewish revolt and
prophesied correctly that their general, Vespasian, would be emperor.
However there was someone else who saw the medium as part of the purposes of God,
whereas Saul had become a villain. Always courageous, right down to the last battle
against the Philistines, Saul was perhaps chosen king for his military prowess, but power
corrupted him. What a contrast between his last meal with the medium, and his first meal
with the prophet Samuel, when he was first anointed
398
It was then that Samuel gave the young Saul a message, and it has to be quoted in detail to
appreciate the precision.
“When thou art departed from me today, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel’s
sepulchre in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will say unto thee, The asses which
thou wentest to seek are found: and, lo, thy father hath left the care of the asses, and
sorroweth for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
Then shalt thou go on forward from thence, and thou shalt come to the plain of Tabor, and
there shall meet thee three men going up to God to Bethel, one carrying three kids, and
another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine:
And they will salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread; which thou shalt receive of
their hands.
After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where is the garrison of the Philistines: and it
shall come to pass, when thou art come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a company
of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a tabret, and a pipe, and
a harp, before them; and they shall prophesy: And the Spirit of the LORD will come upon
thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man. And let it
be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou do as occasion serve thee; for God is
with thee. “
Such detail in an evidential prophetic message is rare indeed.
But to return to the medium of En Dor. The medium describes herself to Saul as his
handmaid. She is not the only handmaid in that book of the Bible. There was the childless
Hannah, for example.
“And she vowed a vow, and said, O LORD of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the
affliction of thine handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thine handmaid, but wilt
give unto thine handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto the LORD all the days of
his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.”
That child was the prophet Samuel. And then there was Abigail, who interceded with
David “Let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine audience, and hear the words of
thine handmaid.” Abigail saved her family, and saved David himself, shortly marrying him.
So to be a handmaid may be to play a part in divine purpose. This theme is worked out in a
valuable paper. Susan Pigott, “1 Samuel 28-Saul and the Not so Wicked Witch of Endor,”
Review and Expositor 95 (1998):
There’s an even better known “handmaid” case involving an awesome message of a
different kind, in the Gospel of Luke, delivered by Gabriel. “And Mary said, Behold the
handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel departed from
her.”
Leslie Price
——§——
399
CHRISTMAS QUIZ
Around 400 people receive Psypioneer. No one, including the editorial team, can remember
all the 10,000 + words each month in each issue! Our annual quiz offers a chance to refresh
our memory – each question is from a month, starting with January 2011, and finishing
with December 2011. All issues are on the web site of www.woodlandway.org. Answers in
January 2012 issue.
1).-Who saw in the same vision Harry Edwards, Gordon Higginson, Harold Vigurs, and
his own father?
2).-Who, numbers of times, before he was ten years old, sat on his little stool
considering what eternity for the “lost” meant?
3).-Who attributed the possible bones of a peddler to a chicken?
4).-Why did Mrs Britten forbear to comment on certain portions of the life and conduct
of A. J. Davis, and that of the late Mrs. Anna Kingsford?
5).-What was the real name of Bill Silver?
6).-Who said “We possess to-day valuable assets of historical value and interest, and
there are many people who are anxious to place valuable records of spirit activity, books,
slates, apports, photographs, signed affidavits, etc., etc., in the Union’s custody if only
suitable provision were made to keep and exhibit them. I have just had some 40 volumes
handed me for the Union. I do not know where to put them, without making them
inaccessible. There is the valuable library of Mrs. Britten lying idle.”
7).-Why did two young women in Newcastle receive “some trifling remuneration”?
8).-What made Merthyr Tydfil a strong centre of Spiritualism?
9).-Who was the MP for Spiritualism?
10).-Who asked a man possessed by a demon to come back a week later?
11).-What was the relationship between Mrs Marshall – and the other Mrs Marshall?
12).-Why did Sir Arthur Conan Doyle not immediately rest in peace?
——§——
400
SOME BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price
pages 294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan The Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling,
by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
http://www.theohistory.org then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page
7:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9., available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback
ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt
pages 1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry H.
Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9.,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45 Psypioneer references by
Leslie Price pages 39-42:— http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009.
ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-
056667-1., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
401
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
——§——
