{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v8_n2_feb_2012.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V8 N2 Feb 2012","mylang":"de"}
42
F
Amalgamation of Societies
——§——
43 - Fair Play for Conan Doyle – Leslie Price
48 - The “Controls” of Stainton Moses - A. W. Trethewy
54 - Notes by the Way: Psychic News Survives Death – Leslie Price
55 - Modern Historians on Modern Spiritualism – Marc Demarest
61 - Leslie Price responds - Spiritualism and Scholarship
The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations in England
Catherine (Kate) Elizabeth Wood 1854-1884 – Concluded
62 - Paraffin-Wax Moulds - Alfred Smedley & W. P. Adshead
68 - What Became of the Moulds? - Alfred Smedley
69 - Miss Wood Caught Personating a Spirit - The Medium and Daybreak
73 - Miss C. E. Wood Exposed – Light
76 - List of article references in the Kate Wood series
77 - Photograph References
78 - Some books we have reviewed
79 - How to obtain this Journal by email
============================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 8, No 2: February 2012
43
FAIR PLAY FOR CONAN DOYLE
Arthur Conan Doyle (1859-1930) remains a
high profile Spiritualist. He had his faults, but
not all criticisms are fair.
A new book by Christopher Sandford deals
again with ACD’s friendship with Houdini.1
It
was reviewed in The Times of London on 10
December, and the reviewer wrote. “In his
final years Arthur Conan Doyle became
consumed by the need to prove that there was
life after death. The creator of the ultra-
rationalist Sherlock Holmes had had a passing
interest in the occult since his youth. But the
loss of his son Kingsley to pneumonia and
younger brother Innes to Spanish flu seems to
have deranged him, making him more than
usually suggestible.”
As editor Tony Ortzen noted in Two Worlds
(Feb.2012) a reader [and Psypioneer
contributor] Dr Roger Straughan, defended
ACD. The Times provided a heading.
“Doyle announced his acceptance of the evidence for survival in 1916 after
more than 30 years of open-minded investigation
“Sir, John O’Connell perpetuates the myth that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was
“deranged” by the deaths of his son and brother and so became “consumed by
the need to prove that there was life after death” (books Dec 10). Doyle
announced his acceptance of the evidence for survival in 1916 after more than
30 years of open-minded investigation, whereas the family deaths did not occur
until 1918-19.
“ “The subject of psychical research,” he wrote, “is one upon which I have
thought more, and about which I have been slower to form my opinion, than
upon any other subject whatever” (The New Revelation). O’Connell should heed
Sherlock Holmes’s warning of the dangers of theorising on inadequate data.”
1
Houdini and Conan Doyle by Christopher Sandford 20th, October 2011. Available at Amazon:—
http://www.amazon.co.uk/s/ref=nb_sb_noss?url=search-alias%3Dstripbooks&field-
keywords=Christopher+Sandford+&x=14&y=22
44
The Times returned to ACD in their archive feature on 29 December, 2011 when they
reprinted a 1919 letter from an angry husband.
“Psychic” painting
The Times, December 29, 1919
Sir, Various sensational and misleading statements have been appearing in
the Press (though not in The Times) concerning a picture of the head of Christ
painted by my wife. Based upon a letter from Sir A. Conan Doyle, it is stated
that the picture was painted under “spirit” guidance, and allusion is made to
“psychic power”, mediumship, and so forth. On behalf of my wife and in the
public interest, I wish to utter a most emphatic contradiction. The picture, as all
the rest of her work, was painted in a perfectly normal manner. Mrs. Spencer
makes no claims either to “psychic power” or mediumship, nor is she in
sympathy with the spiritualist movement. She has never met Sir A. Conan
Doyle, and his statements, which were published wholly without her knowledge
and during her absence on the Continent, rest entirely on hearsay.
That her name should be used as an advertisement for spiritualism, with
which she has no sympathy, is not only extremely unfair and repugnantly
distasteful to her, but grossly misleading to the public. Her paintings have
attracted a certain amount of attention owing to the fact that she has never had a
lesson in her life. But this, as she herself points out, is no more than an
argument for spiritualism than is the performance of a pianist who plays by ear
without having being taught.
Victor Spencer
93, Promenade des Anglais, Nice”
——§——
Readers may well think that ACD was foolish, but a reader has found in “Letters to the
Press” ACD’s original letter to the Daily Mail and his reply to “The Times”. Note that in
his letter to the Mail, ACD does not name the woman; it was the newspaper which added
the name in a headline.
THE DAILY MAIL
Woman “Spirit” Painter, Sir A. Conan Doyle and Mrs. Spencer
16 December 1919
SIR,—In the early days of this movement it was foretold by Mrs. de Morgan
and others that the line of advance would be from the crude material
phenomena, common in these days to the finer and more intellectual proofs
which the human race would become more fitted to receive. This prophecy has,
in the course of the last fifty years, been amply justified. The spirit rap,
levitations, and even materialisations have become far less common. The
evidence in these directions has been given, and this stage appears to be closing
down. On the other hand, we have never before had such an outburst of the finer
phases of spirit intervention, of spirit photography, of inspirational addresses,
45
writings, and paintings, and very especially of that clairvoyance or “discerning
of spirits” which Saint Paul counted among the most valuable of spiritual gifts.
In writing this letter my object was, however, to point out some of the more
intellectual proofs of spirit intervention which may appeal to those minds which
recoil from grosser manifestations, only justified by the necessities of the
material age in which we live. Of written inspiration much might be said, for no
philosophy that has appeared has such a literature as has grown round
spiritualism. To those who imagine that the inspirational messages are of small
intellectual value I would name only two recent books: Claude’s Second Book
(Methuen) and Letters from the Other Side (Watkins), which contain the very
essence of spiritual knowledge, and, incidentally, a good deal of prophesy, in
the case of the latter book, which has been literally fulfilled since the time the
messages were taken. If those two books are not indeed inspired, then what are
we to think of the transcendent intellectual qualities of those two ladies whose
hands were used to produce the script?
It is, however, to inspirational painting which I would especially refer,
because when a masterpiece is produced by one who has no technical skill, and
when it is exposed for all to behold, the most sceptical must admit that there is
something there beyond their ken. Some publicity has been given recently to the
symbolic drawings of Mr. Charles Horsfall, and after inspecting them I am
certainly of opinion that they are indeed truly inspirational in their origin and
profound in their meaning.
I could, however, appreciate the position of those who have no turn for
mysticism and who do not understand that there are some subjects so complex
that they cannot be treated in a pictorial but only in a diagrammatic fashion.
To these people I would recommend an inspection of the head of Christ now
exhibited at the Walker Gallery in New Bond Street. This picture is, in my
opinion, the very finest head of the Founder of Christianity that has ever been
conceived, and I can well understand the action of a great painter in Paris who,
when he saw the companion full-face drawing, fell instantly upon his knees.
It is, indeed, a most marvellous production, with all that inner soul which is
so lacking in the old masters, whose Christs and Virgins appear to me to be very
often the quintessence of materialism and vulgarity.
Yet this wonderful work was done in a few hours by a lady who, as I am
assured by her family, has no power of artistic expression when in her normal
condition. It is a supreme example of the working of spiritual intelligence
through a material mortal frame.
ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
Windlesham, Crowborough, Sussex, Dec. 13.
——§——
46
THE TIMES
30 December 1919
“A Disclaimer”
SIR,—In answer to the Hon. Major Victor Spencer’s letter in your columns,
may I disclaim having ever mentioned Mrs. Spencer’s name at any time in
connexion with psychic phenomena. A reference to the original published
correspondence will show that it was her own family who mentioned her name,
and that it was a close relation who said, “Mrs. Spencer has strong psychic
power,” and also asserted in one picture that it was done upside down.
“When she had finished she wondered what on earth she had done. It was
only on turning it upside down that a perfect head of Christ appeared.” I enclose
the cutting with marked passages to prove my assertion.
Major Spencer is, of course, entitled to have his own views upon psychic
matters and their value, but the tide of events is, I think, against him.
Yours faithfully,
ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
Windlesham, Crowborough, Sussex, Dec. 29
——§——
Taken together, the letters show that ACD was more cautious than might be initially
thought.
Turning again to the recent book by Sandford, whereas the review in “The Times” aroused
a defender of ACD, the reviewer Olivia Laing in the Guardian (a left-wing newspaper)
thought the author was biased on class grounds against Houdini!2
Laing writes:
“More troubling, and stranger, is Sandford’s partisanship on the part of
Conan Doyle, whose sweet and sportsmanlike nature apparently trumps his
insistence on consoling fantasy over the uncomfortable realities of scientific
proof. There are frequent references to Houdini’s diminutive stature, crumpled
clothes and inability to spell (describing himself as Conan Doyle’s intellectual
“pier” is a cracker, no doubt), all of which would be fine if they were
accompanied by the same note of respect that Conan Doyle automatically
commands.”
2
See:— http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2011/oct/30/houdini-conan-doyle-sandford-review
47
Psypioneer’s attitude to books is shaped mainly by their degree of accuracy. All
publications, including this one, fall into error. We are impressed by efforts to avoid this,
such as having drafts read by relevant persons. We are very impressed when authors read
Psypioneer and use the online index of contents and Google to search it. Here is an
incorrect reference by Sandford which could easily have been avoided:3
“On July 1st
Conan Doyle went up to London for the last time, for a meeting
with the new Labour Home Secretary, John Clynes. Although Doyle was meant
to be head of ten strong-delegation lobbying for changes to the Witchcraft Act,
he found himself alone there, but for the journalist Hannen Swaffer; once again,
the Spiritualists had fallen out among themselves on a point of principle.”
But by a Google search under ‘Clynes’ in Psypioneer, he would have found in our June
2009 edition:
“When, just before Conan Doyle’s passing, a deputation of Spiritualists went
to the Home Office to ask J. R. Clynes, then Home Secretary, to remove the
disabilities on mediumship, Oaten was the spokesman.”
Again in Psypioneer September 2011, there is a footnote:
“John M. Stewart was the S.N.U.’s Freedom Committee Secretary who
worked with Tom Brooks. Stewart looked after the S.N.U., interests in the legal
field. He was involved in the long fight of freedom for over 20 years and was
present at the Deputation who met with the then Home Secretary J.R. Clynes on
Tuesday July 1st, 1930.”
So Conan Doyle was not alone, and Sandford appears to have been misled. Indeed, there
were eighteen people in the Spiritualist delegation on July 1 1930. Paul Gaunt will soon
republish the minutes of that meeting, in a study he has recently completed of attempts to
change the law on mediumship.
We will return to the Sandford book, but to conclude for the present. It is by no means easy
to write accurately and fairly about psychic pioneers.
LP.
——§——
3
(p253) to the end of ACD’s life
48
STAINTON MOSES
Introduction by Leslie Price:—Stainton Moses, whom we have often featured, was an
outstanding figure in Victorian Spiritualism. But only a handful of persons have ever
studied his life and work in detail. One was F.W.H. Myers, who wrote his obituary for the
SPR (already re-published in Psypioneer4
) and contributed a long two-part paper about him
to SPR Proceedings. Another was A.W. Trethewy, whose lecture revealing the identity of
the controls we have also reprinted.5
It is unlikely, however, that most readers will have
access to Trethewy’s full-length book and we plan therefore to reprint some of the chapters.
THE “CONTROLS”
OF STAINTON
MOSES
INTRODUCTION6
STAINTON MOSES is a name well known
to all who are interested in the history of
Psychical Research and Spiritualism. Besides
exercising extraordinary mediumistic powers
he held a prominent position as an exponent
of Spiritualism, was President of the London
Spiritualist Alliance and Editor of Light, the
author of several books and a frequent
contributor to the Press. His principal work,
Spirit Teachings, is often quoted as
representative of the best type of Spirit
communications, both in the nature of the
subject matter and the quality of the literary
style, on the ground that it consists of
messages given by exalted entities through an intellectual and well-educated medium. In
the Memorial Edition of that work is a biographical notice of the author, written by the late
Mr. Charlton T. Speer, from which and from the article by F. W. H. Myers in Proceedings
S.P.R., Vol. IX., Part XXV., the following information has been taken.
4
Volume 6, No.10:—William Stainton Moses - Frederic W H. Myers, pages 285-288:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.10October2010.pdf
5
Volume 3, No.4:—A Study of Stainton Moses – An address by A.W. Trethewy, pages 85-88:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.4April07.pdf
6
The “Controls” of Stainton Moses (“M.A. Oxon.”) by A.W. Trethewy, B.A. Hurst & Blackett Ltd, no date,
circa 1923, pages 1-8.
49
William Stainton Moses was born in
1839. His father was the Headmaster of
the Grammar School of Donnington in
Lincolnshire, and the family had been
settled in that county for some time; in
spite of the name there is no reason to
suppose that the stock was Semitic; he
thought that “Moses” had been
originally Mostyn.” He was educated at
Bedford Grammar School and Oxford
University (Exeter College). At Oxford
his course was interrupted by illness; he
was obliged to travel on the Continent
for the sake of his health, and spent
some time in a monastery on Mount
Athos. On his return to England he took
the degree of M.A. at Oxford and
entered the Church, being ordained by
Bishop Wilberforce.
He began his ministry in the Isle of
Man and did very good work as a
clergyman. There he made the
acquaintance of Dr. and Mrs. Speer. In
1870 ill-health obliged him to give up
parish work, and he accepted the post of tutor to Dr. Speer’s son, the late Mr. Charlton T.
Speer. From 1871 till 1889 he was a master at University College School, London. He
suffered much from ill-health during the closing years of his life and died in 1892 at
Bedford, where his mother was then residing. He seems to have got through a great deal of
work in addition to his ordinary duties; he wrote for Punch, the Saturday Review and other
journals when he was in the Isle of Man: he contributed many articles to Human Nature
and other psychical publications when he was at University College School, generally
writing as “M.A. Oxon.”
Spiritualism had at first no attractions for him; he regarded the phenomena as produced
by fraud. He was persuaded, however, by Mrs. Speer, who had been much impressed by a
book she had read, to consider the question seriously. At séances with various mediums he
had some mystifying experiences; soon he showed signs of having mediumistic powers
himself and, after sitting with Dr. and Mrs. Speer, developed quickly for physical
phenomena and trance speaking.
In 1873 he acquired the power of automatic writing without the necessity of trance then
began the series of messages from which extracts have been selected for publication as
Spirit Teachings. This faculty he exercised regularly till 1877, after which year the
communications were rarer till they closed in 1883; at least there is no later record, though
50
occasional communications were received afterwards.7
The table on page 336 of
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. IX., shows the various kinds of phenomena obtained by Stainton
Moses at séances. Adding to these the automatic writing, clairvoyance, clairaudience and
trance speaking, we get an extraordinary degree of versatility for a single medium. Others
may have surpassed him, specializing in particular lines, but none had a wider range of
powers so notably exercised. There was never any scandal of suspected trickery and (see
Chapter XIII.) there is no reason now to doubt his good faith; the testimony of his friends
and the internal evidence of his records are conclusive against any theory of fraud.
The book Spirit Teachings contains but a small portion of the automatic script. There
are, however, typed copies of the original record, nearly complete, in the library of the
London Spiritualist Alliance at 5 Queen Square; they do not include Book No. III., which
has been lost, but they do cover the whole of the remaining twenty-three books except for a
very few passages which it was thought undesirable to divulge as disclosing the identity of
some of the communicating spirits; those passages find places in the present book. The
copies are available to be read by members of the Alliance. To the student they are more
convincing and interesting than Spirit Teachings; they show the communications in the
form of a dialogue, consisting mainly of instruction, but interspersed with evidential
information and other matter, sometimes as sudden interruptions. The appearance of a
conversation between Stainton Moses and one or more other persons is much clearer in the
copies than in the edited extracts, artificially connected, which make up the printed book.
Moreover, the reader’s natural curiosity as to the identity of the teachers is to a great extent
satisfied, and of course there is much additional matter of various kinds.
Stainton Moses had been opposed to the early publication of full personal details and
had excluded many from the extracts printed in Light during his lifetime. Mrs. Speer had
been guided by the same principle in selecting extracts for the same journal after his death.
He did, however, contemplate the possibility of subsequent publication, in a later
generation, of the portions withheld in the first instance; so much is clear from what he has
left on record. After reading the copies I suggested to the officials of the Alliance that the
time had now come when the whole story might be told without reserve. I offered to
prepare the copies for publication by completing and correcting them to the best of my
ability and by adding explanatory notes to elucidate references to séances and topical
allusions to contemporary events, and to show the results of my inquiries into the value of
the evidential information furnished by some of the communicating Intelligences in support
of their claims to identity with historical characters.
This plan was approved by the Council of the Alliance, and the original records were
placed at my disposal for the preparation of the work. The copies have been corrected,
completed and annotated; everything is nearly ready for publication, but unfortunately the
state of business in the trade makes the time unsuitable for so large a work. It would be
about six times the size of Spirit Teachings and under present conditions would be almost
unsaleable at cost price. The original plan, therefore, has been postponed and replaced
7
Trethewy reference:—See, for instance, reference in page 53 of Light for 1884 to a message of that year
from B. Coleman.
51
temporarily by the present undertaking, which may prepare the way for its future execution.
The most important part of what has hitherto been withheld consists of evidential
information relating to the identity claimed by the communicating spirits; this constitutes
the bulk of the present book. There is a list of the principal Intelligences with a notice
showing the part played by each, the evidence, if any, furnished by him, and an appre-
ciation of his claim.
In Chapter XIII an attempt is made to consider all the cases as a whole and to suggest
some general conclusions, but as I do not profess to have sufficient knowledge of psychical
research to speak with confidence on such a subject, any opinions that I may venture to
express are merely tentative. My main task is to make literary inquiries on the material side
in order to set forth the facts for the benefit of those who have sufficient experience to
adjudicate on them. The confirmed Spiritualist may welcome the collection of evidence
bearing on the identity of the “controls” to satisfy himself whether the characters are
genuine or false personations. The Psychical Researcher who is not yet ready to admit a
spiritistic basis for such communications may, nevertheless, recognize that any light which
can be thrown on the work of so remarkable a medium as Stainton Moses is an aid to
scientific inquiry into the causes of such phenomena.
It is sometimes said that the subject matter of a message is more important than the
source from which it comes, and that we should consider it in the light of our reason
without being too curious as to the personality of the author. Such a contention may be
pushed too far. In matters of which we can have no experience we have no gauge of
probabilities to guide us in the exercise of our reason. The amount of credit that we feel
inclined to attach to a statement which cannot be satisfactorily weighed in the balance of
analogy, far less verified, must be influenced by our opinion of the truthfulness and
knowledge of the person responsible four it. It is, therefore, desirable to examine the source
if we are asked to accept an assertion without proof.
It is also said that the contents of Spirit Teachings have no claim to originality, but may
be read in Unitarian and Spiritualistic literature. If this criticism is well founded, it is not
fatal to the claims of the alleged revelation; the subject matter may be true if it is not new,
and the point is that the Intelligences who profess to be the authors of the teaching were in
their earth lives authorities on some of the subjects discussed. If, then, we believe that they
were the persons they profess to be, we shall be the more inclined to concede their
competence to instruct us. They asserted that a missionary effort to uplift the human race
was being made in the spirit realms, which they termed the spheres, and that in pursuance
of this endeavour some who on earth had borne high and honoured names had combined
together to convey the teaching through a suitable medium, one who had the rarest gifts
and whose personality furnished an extraordinary opportunity.
Stainton Moses published the message, but he withheld the names of its authors and he
had their authority for his reticence. He feared, no doubt, that the use of great names would
be received with scorn and would be prejudicial to the acceptance of the teaching. He also
must have shrunk from exposing them to ridicule. Public opinion has advanced a little since
his day, and people are more inclined to accord a tolerant attention to statements contrary
52
to their experience and views. The time has come when the full story may be told and the
scheme completed. Whatever interpretation may be placed on the drama, so great is our
ignorance of spiritual things that it would be rash to deny the possibility of the teachings
having come from the alleged source, though the degree of credence accorded or withheld
will vary with each reader.
This book is written principally for students who are willing to devote time and trouble
to research. It contains all the important evidential matter which has not yet been published,
but does not repeat what has already appeared in print and is still readily accessible. It is a
continuation of Stainton Moses’ works, Spirit Teachings and Spirit Identity, and of F. W.
H. Myers’ articles in Vols. IX. and XI. (Parts XXV. and XXVII) of the S.P.R. Proceedings.
References are given to the appropriate pages of those publications, but their contents are
not copied, though where the context seems to require it a very short summary of the
passage is given.
When the printing of the whole body of automatic writing was contemplated, a
summary showing the subject and date of every communication was prepared for the book
as a table of contents. This summary is incorporated in the present work, with marginal
references to the places where those portions may be found that have already been printed.
The reader who has access to old numbers of Light will find many extracts there.
Frequent references have been made to the following works in the editions specified.
Spirit Teachings, “M.A. Oxon.,” Memorial Edition, London, 1904, Reprint.
Spirit Identity, “M.A. Oxon.,” London, 1908, Reprint.
Proceedings S.P.R., Vols. IX. and XI. (Parts XXV. and XXVII.), viz., the articles II.
and III., written by F. W. H. Myers, on “The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.”
Encyclopædia Britannica, Edition XI.
The Dictionary of National Biography, Leslie Stephen and Sidney Lee, London, 1885,
et seq.
Dictionary of Music and Musicians, Sir George Grove, London, 1890.
Dictionary of the Bible, W. Smith, LL.D., London, 1863.
Human Personality, F. W. H. Myers, London, 1915.
Studies in Psychical Research, F. Podmore, London, 1897.
Modern Spiritualism, F. Podmore, London, 1902.
Old Diary Leaves, First Series, Colonel H. S. Olcott, Madras, 1895.
53
The unpublished Séance Records are the manuscript records of seances compiled by
Stainton Moses. The Retrospects for 1872 and 1873 are two private manuscript books
written by him at the instance of “Imperator” to trace the growth of his development and
knowledge. The Séance Records and Retrospects are in the keeping of the London
Spiritualist Alliance.
The phrase “Biblical Spirits” signifies the spirits of men who figure in the Bible.
In the quotation of dialogues the letters S.M. are used to denote the part taken by
Stainton Moses in his supraliminal self.
The illustrations have been made by photography from tracings of certain figures and
words in the manuscript books of Stainton Moses’ automatic writing kept in the library of
the London Spiritualist Alliance. The number of the Book and the page number have been
quoted in every case to show where the original is to be found. The same Books are
frequently mentioned in the text, but there the date of the communication is quoted, instead
of the number of the page, to facilitate search for the passage in the typed copy which also
is in the same library, and which has pages numbered differently from the manuscript.
Following the example of Stainton Moses, as stated in page 9 of his Retrospect for
1873, I have, for the sake of brevity, frequently referred to a spirit or phenomenon as being
all that it professed to be, instead of using the word “alleged” or a phrase denoting the same
idea. It must not be supposed that by mentioning it in this form I necessarily accept it at
face value.
Finally, I may quote from page 5 of the same Retrospect Stainton Moses’ words, which
are applicable to my own work “Nothing that seems material to the subject will be
designedly left out either because it does not square with a theory or because it savours too
strongly of the marvellous.”
——§——
54
Notes by the Way:
PSYCHIC NEWS SURVIVES DEATH
The weekly newspaper Psychic News, founded in 1932, was closed by its owners, the
Spiritualists National Union in July 2010. In December 2011, it was revived as a
fortnightly magazine with the same editorial team, but now owned by the JV Trust, who
had purchased it from the liquidator. For the study of pioneers, this revival was greatly
welcome, as PN publishes much material about pioneers, and its archives are a major
resource. The new magazine carried an illuminating account of the work of the JV Trust in
its first issue in the new format.8
The trust now fully emerges as a leading financial
supporter of Spiritualism, having been previously associated mainly with the development
of the Arthur Findlay College at Stansted Hall.
From 1965 to 1995, PN was owned by the Spiritual Truth Foundation, a trust originally
intended to have a controlling interest in Psychic Press Ltd., the Two Worlds Publishing
Co. Ltd., and the Psychic Book Club Ltd, as well as a wider role in promoting Spiritualism.
In 1995, when STF could not longer sustain PN, the SNU took the paper over, moving it
immediately from London to Stansted.
By 2010 the paper was in debt. The SNU decided to close it down and to put the
subsidiary, which operated it into liquidation. They claimed ownership of such PN assets as
the masthead and archives, but the liquidator concluded they were part of the liquidation.
The way was open for JV Trust to successfully bid for the paper and revive it.
Many readers will have followed this painful saga from the first rumours of financial
difficulty in 2010. In retrospect, there is no doubt that a good deal of money – and anguish
– could have been saved for all concerned if the SNU had cooperated with JV Trust and
STF from the beginning in negotiating a smooth sale of assets without interruption of the
paper. It appears however that some in the SNU may have hoped to revive the paper as a
more internal publication, and resisted the eventual outcome.
When papers close, they usually stay closed. That PN did not owes much to the united
efforts of JV, STF and PN staff. Web sites such as Paranormal Review, Spiritualism Link
and Spirit of PN kept readers in touch with developments. Fellow editors of sister
publications turned out in force on 15 December at the London Spiritual Mission to
welcome the new magazine.
——§——
8
Psychic News see:—http://www.psychicnews.org.uk/
55
Modern Historians on Modern
Spiritualism
[Introduction by LP: Many persons seriously interested in the history of Spiritualism and
related subjects will already have seen the important criticisms made on 12 January 2012
by Marc Demarest in his blog www.ehbritten.org about the present state of academic writing
on the subject. Marc has kindly consented for his remarks to be reprinted in Psypioneer.
Problems with the writing of Spiritualist history have always been a central concern of
Psypioneer. The version below is edited by us, and by Marc himself. My own comments
follow.]
I’m putting off real work, and have been reading
a lot of modern—that is, contemporary—
historians’ work on Modern Spiritualism and
related topics, of late. Perhaps it’s a sign of the
curmudgeonly spirit that usually accompanies
specialization, but I find modern history-writers’
treatment of Modern Spiritualism infuriating:
particularly the writings of American academics.
Excepting Oppenheim, Albanese, Buescher and
Gutierrez from the mix, I’ll go out on a limb and
say that the problems I am about to list can be
found in pretty much every book written about
Modern Spiritualism for the last decade (at
least).
1). - Grossly-incorrect details, indicating a
superficial familiarity with the material, due to an acquaintance with the material that is
largely second-hand: that is, through the work of other academics. This indicates, I think, a
lack of care, or more precisely the sense that American academics, particularly younger
academics, have that Modern Spiritualism is relatively speaking a clean stage for the
ritualistic dramas associated with getting ahead, grinding theoretical axes, and getting
tenure. In other words, the details don’t matter, because (a) no one knows them anyway and
(b) Modern Spiritualism is always a pretext for something else: acts of professional
affiliation and devotion, theory-construction, vaguely post-modern linguistic cleverness,
political revisionism, etc.
2). - The homogeneity fallacy. Readers are usually invited to accept a model of Modern
Spiritualism that is homogeneous. MS is a progressive, anti-institutional (some academics
even claim antinomian), decentralized discipline allied with progressive movements in
other areas: sexual politics (free love), health, diet and medicine (vegetarianism,
homeopathy) and the anti-vivisection movement, progressive politics (abolitionism, etc.).
56
It is certainly true that (a) many Spiritualists (of what type, though?) resembled that profile,
that (b) fully as many did not, and (c) the more academics talk about only the ‘progressive’
Spiritualist (as opposed to the Christian Spiritualist or indeed the reactionary Spiritualist,
who was also represented in the mix), the more it will appear to future academics using
only secondary sources that the movement was homogenous. The movement is not
homogenous today, and was not homogenous in the 1840s, and has not been homogeneous
at any point in between.
I will offer into evidence, as an example of the lengths modern historians will go to avoid
confronting their own presumption of homogeneity, the case of Victoria Woodhull. Those
modern historians who are willing to acknowledge the central role that Spiritualism played
in Woodhull’s life and work (and in the lives and work of other founders of modern
feminism) are unwilling to acknowledge, with equal detail, that Woodhull spent the last
decades of her life as an ardent polemicist for eugenics. They don’t explain that transition,
or examine Woodhull’s work as a eugenics propagandist at the same level of detail that
they examine her life as a leading proponent of free love or women’s political equality.
Woodhull’s affinity for eugenics is a knotty problem worth untangling, by any estimate,
particularly when we note that the drift into eugenics was not uncommon for first-circle
Spiritualists (or first-circle occultists for that matter), and when we note that (however we
see it today) eugenics was a ‘progressive’ discipline in the sense that word had at the turn
of the 20th century, even though we view it, post-Nazi, as the worst sort of crypto-fascism.
There’s a second aspect to this homogeneity fallacy—the notion that a Spiritualist is a
Spiritualist is a Spiritualist—but I’ll deal with that one separately, in a bit. My sense of the
movement is that it is highly segmented, and multi-dimensionally so. For example, the
spirit controls of Stainton Moses come from a different universe than the controls of Mrs.
Piper, despite the similarity of some monikers, and those of Moses - though perhaps not
those of Mrs. Piper - would have cut dead in the streets of Summerland the controls of Miss
Young. Similarly, the spiritualism of Boston and the spiritualism of New York were
distinctive and in important ways (the collective attitude toward free love-ism, for
example), and both were viewed as not rigorous by the spiritualism of Chicago and
somewhat uninformed and blinkered by the spiritualism of San Francisco. There are two
dimensions: class and place. There are several others. There is, no matter how you look at
it, no homogeneity. Below the level of label, of top-level theoretical object and a small
creedal contract (which Emma encapsulated nicely at several junctures), there is no such
integrated, homogeneous thing as “Modern Spiritualism” per se.
3). - The nationalist fallacy. Modern academic treatments of Modern Spiritualism
discuss a theoretical object called “American Spiritualism” as thought it has any real,
historical foundation, which it does not. Among the dimensions that segment “Modern
Spiritualism,” national boundaries are at best tertiary in importance. The movement was
primarily Anglo-American (that is, the Commonwealth + the United States), with (as
Emma and others sought to demonstrate) significant traction in Western Europe (France
and Germany in particular), and was internationalist from its outset. Innovation—in séance
techniques and apparatus, in propaganda techniques, in dissemination methods, in any of
the mechanisms of a discipline or belief system that matter—was not confined to the
57
United States, or any other country, and these were spread, replicated and versioned
quickly (in matters of weeks) across national boundaries. On the whole, the trajectory of
the movement and its interpenetration and symbiosis with a nominally-oppositional
“mainstream culture” took shape in substantially the same way whether we’re looking at
British Spiritualism in the 1850s, 1860s and 1870s, or Australian Spiritualism in the 1870s,
1880s and 1890s. The national dimension of the movement—the ways in which Australian
Spiritualism, say, differed from American Spiritualism—are nuances; the movement was,
from the late 1850s, international.
4). - The recapitulation fallacy. An unfortunate feature of academic history. What I say
is so because it was said before me, by academics to whom I wish to claim affiliation. If we
say it often enough, to one another, in our academic cabinet, it must be true. Modern
academic treatments of Modern Spiritualism distort the objects of study by recapitulating
signal themes, in particular the notions that MS was either (a) a manifestation of the
Victorian cult of death or (b) a reaction to the horror of mass death in the US Civil War, the
Crimea and elsewhere. It would be tough to trace these free-floating themes (because they
do not stand up to scrutiny, at the detailed level, very well) back to their origins, but my
hypothesis is that they all take root in Weber and Weberian analyses that need—because of
Weber’s model—disruption, dislocation, and loss in order for the model to make sense. As
I’ll suggest in a bit, many third and fourth circle Spiritualists may have been drawn to the
movement because of a personal loss, but second-circle and first-circle Spiritualists came to
MS, in the main, for reasons that had nothing to do with the themes recapitulated by
academics, and everything to do with a profound dissatisfaction with the available idols of
the marketplace.
5). - The eruption-and-decline fallacy. This one's a bit of a shocker. In part because
academics appear to accept the distorted canonical versions of Modern Spiritualism as
promoted by Spiritualism itself (then and now), MS is presented as erupting full-blown
with the Fox Sisters, and collapsing in a sticky heap in the late nineteenth century. This
fallacy does produce a nice bell-shaped curve (for the movement’s trajectory, the number
of “Spiritualists,” etc.)—it is a pretty theoretical object to be sure. But it is a fallacy that
does not serve Spiritualism the modern movement, and is otherwise just an ahistorical
academic play toy. The movements that were MS developed, quite slowly (over perhaps 20
years) from mesmerism, phrenology, folk occult practices, alternative medical disciplines
and *incorrect and incomplete orthodox science*—not to mention a pre-existing whirlwind
of religious innovation that dates back to the 1770s, and a mythographic tradition
coincident with the colonization of India and the British hegemony over parts of the Far
East. It’s appropriate to date the “beginning” of Modern Spiritualism to (most
conservatively) the work of Andrew Jackson Davis in the US, and more realistically to the
Anglo-American cultural hubbub we tend to refer to as the Age of Cant (say, 1770-1830).
And Modern Spiritualism has in no sense ended. In fact, it has persisted, and, if we take a
notional 4% of the general population as a number that probably pegs the peak of self-
identified third circle US Spiritualists in 1870, Modern Spiritualism has persisted at more
or less the same level of demographic penetration, up to the present day. And none of this
gets at the fundamental fact that the “Modern Spiritualism” EH Britten documented in
Nineteenth Century Miracles and the one Conan Doyle documented, several decades later,
58
are fundamentally different—or the fact that Doyle’s was, in most important ways, more
culturally significant. There is no tangible, evidence-based bottoms-up view of Modern
Spiritualism that supports the eruption-and-decline model academics favor. That is the
wishful thinking of reason, and that’s all it is.
6). - Problems of cause-and-effect, and a penchant for the ahistorical. A common
example of this is the tendency of modern historians to see alternative medical practices
(medical clairvoyance, or intuitive medicine as we now call it), changes in dietary and
dress regimes, and other “allied causes” as the effects of Modern Spiritualism, rather than
some of the discourses and communities from which and into which Spiritualists
(particularly the first-and second-circle Spiritualists) migrated. The wily mesmerist
preceded, trained, nurtured and in many cases pimped the spirit medium. EHB and
Blavatsky—to pick two obvious examples—were steeped in one or more of these
disciplines before they self-identified as Spiritualists; Elizabeth French made her living as a
medical clairvoyant before AND after she was a successful medium; Gilbert Vale “tested”
Spiritualism from his secure vantage point in the freethought movement; Benjamin
Coleman embraced Spiritualism after two decades as a political advocate of the rights of
ordinary folks against the depradations of capital and the State. Cromwell Varley believed
in the truths of Spiritualism because he believed in the truths of free and open
communication, of all sorts. Chartists became Spiritualists; Spiritualism did not, in itself,
promote socialism and freethought except insofar as infinite perfectibility, an ethics of
personal responsibility here and hereafter, and a religious experience centered on intimacy
and a medium—rather than a crowd and a priest—promoted socialism, freethought, anti-
vivisectionism, and vegetarianism.
7). - The chop-shop effect. In my view, modern academic historians do violence to the
lives of the dead. It’s difficult, after reading academic treatments of Modern Spiritualism,
to look into the giant bag of real historical figures and find a single person whose personal
life trajectory fits the academic model one’s just ingested. The academic’s clothes cover no
emperor, no pauper, no one at all. If one steps back, and looks only at how academic
historians conjure with historical figures in their work, it becomes apparent very quickly
that we’re dealing with chop-shop history: the real lives of real people are parted out, into
thematic bins, like car parts in a stolen car parts operation. Purloined lives, disassembled
and sold off. Judge Edmonds—a name frequently conjured with—has no life, or his life has
no integrity. He is an exemplar for certain assertions (people came to Spiritualism after
personal tragedy), and those parts of his life (as a person, as a Spiritualist) that don’t have a
bin (for example, the mediumship of his wife and daughter, his role in the founding of the
Society for the Diffusion of Spiritualist Knowledge, his defense of Cora Hatch against her
husband Benjamin, his resolutely Christian orientation toward Spiritualism and its truths,
and his lack of rigor in accepting witnessed and reported phenomenon, not to mention the
history of his legal opinions) get silently dumped on the floor of the academic chop shop.
Seen bottoms-up, through the details of the lives of real Spiritualists of the nineteenth
century, there are virtually no academic treatments of Spiritualism that align well with the
facts of people’s detailed, intensely-lived existences.
59
8). - The cartoon séance problem. For academics, all séances—all Spiritualist practice
and apparatus—are bound up with immediate interpersonal communications with the dead.
This is a view of the séance that is sustainable only (a) if one has not actually read any
significant number of séance records and/or (b) if one has no interest in what Spiritualist
practice actually was and always (c) when one makes no distinction between first-, second-
and third-circle Spiritualists. Let’s take four first-circle and first-generation mediums as test
cases—J. V. Mansfield, Henry Slade, Daniel Dunglas Home and the Davenports—as
examples. What percentage of the performances (public and private) of these four actors
would any reasonably well-read person say were “interpersonal communications with the
dead”? I would hazard the guess: less than 30%. Even if we restrict the analysis to the
purely private circles each of the four was involved with, less than half of the
performances would involve interpersonal communication with named deceased persons
beyond the controls involved. The séance, for Spiritualists, was laboratory, therapeutic
couch, theatre and lecture hall, and was always a zone of demonstration first, and
communication second. Based on a (naive and fragile) model of “scientific proof” that
emphasized personal experience as proof, and made sensory perception (not to mention
cause and effect) unproblematic, the séance was not, primarily, about permitting the
bereaved to communicate with their lost loved ones. The séance was the source of the self-
evident truths of Spiritualism: true because I witnessed it, at first hand.
Katie King was proof, but not of the afterlife existence of one’s Aunt Emily. J. V.
Mansfield wanted a sealed envelope, or a lock of your hair, but usually the transaction did
not involve the afterlife existence of one’s Aunt Emily. And although Mina Crandon
(“Margery”) was controlled by the spirit of her dead brother Walter, the material of the
Margery séances was definitely not interpersonal: it was an exploration of the limits of the
medium (Mina, and the séance) first and foremost, and it was proof of the survival of
personality: something academic historians do not recognize, because they apparently have
not read much at all in the primary literature. When I tested for Aunt Emily, I did so not
because I was mourning her or because I had some necrophilial preoccupation with death,
but because I expected to be able to recognize the nuances of her personality. (The
obsession with proof of the survival of personality, which can be documented, contradicts
directly academic yarn-spinning about “cults of death” and private obsessions with specific
dead people. It was my personality, and its survival, that were frequently at issue, in the
“test.”)
9). - The separate-and-unequal fallacy. I have harped on this before. There seems to be
little or no acknowledgement of the plain fact that Modern Spiritualism existed, from
inception, and does to this day, within the boundaries of that theoretical object called
“mainstream culture”, rather than as a separate community in more or less uneasy relations
with “mainstream culture.”
10). - The disingenuous narrator problem. If you read closely in modern academic
treatments of Modern Spiritualism, you will nearly always find the moment where the
writer unmasks himself or herself as the agent-of-reason, and ridicules some aspect of
Spiritualism as a belief system. The tone may be “how nutty!” or “how quaint!” or “of
course we know better now….” but the moment we discover a fundamental lack of
60
sympathy almost always occurs. This has been the hallmark of “mainstream” and
“academic” histories of Spiritualism (and the occult) for the past 150 years. The author
cannot be trusted to show us the memes at play, because eventually the author will
conclude (a) that the memes are fraudulent, dangerous, trivial, or unhealthy, (b) that the
play of those memes is uninstructive, marginal, or distracting or (c) both. I am reminded of
a comment quoted in one of Christopher MacIntosh’s books, in which someone suggested
that it is never a waste of time to study how one’s precedessors wasted theirs. Many
academic historians do not even exhibit this level of sympathy with Modern Spiritualism.
The list is not exhaustive.
Finally, boiling over on an airplane while being dragged through overgeneralization,
fallacy and cliché by one scholar’s book—wherein I learned that Theosophy originated in
Britain, among other things—I’m provoked to make what ought to be an obvious point to
anyone who has read EHB’s Modern American Spiritualism: a Spiritualist is not a
Spiritualist is not a Spiritualist. At a gross level, during the first generation of Modern
Spiritualist (1840-1900, say, with 1870 as the lovely convenient and entirely faux midpoint
for the erupt-and-dissipate peak to center itself on), there were four circles of Spiritualists
in the international community:
· first-circle Spiritualists who occupied positions as public intellectuals advocating one
flavor or other of Modern Spiritualism. Examples would include: William Stainton Moses,
E H Britten, Benjamin Coleman, Crookes, Cora Hatch, Alfred Russel Wallace, Marie
Countess of Caithness (but NOT Victoria Woodhull, to differentiate). You know you’re
looking at a first-circle Spiritualist when they served as synechdochal material for attacks
on Spiritualist in the “mainstream” media, or as the organizing point for a splinter faction
that forms around them, or when they explicitly differentiated their ‘brand’ of spiritualism
from others brands.
· second-circle Spiritualists who derived some or all of their personal income from either
the promotion or the practice of Spiritualism. Examples would include: J. J. Morse, Colby,
Rich, Samuel Brittan, Thomas Shorter, Elizabeth French, and Victoria Woodhull (and
Tennessee Claflin). There were 10 or 20 second circle Spiritualists in 1870, in my
estimation, for every first circle Spiritualist, and the first and second circles were connected
to one another in vibrant and complex international social networks that become
immediately apparent to anyone spending time with the primary material.
· third-circle Spiritualists, ordinary believers who testified publicly to their belief in
Spiritualism, but who did not promote Spiritualism beyond the scope of a private circle or a
local society, and who made their living by conventional means not immediately associated
with the movement. There were 20 to 40 third-circle Spiritualists for every second-circle
Spiritualist, in 1870. The hallmark of a third-circle Spiritualist: they paid the social cost for
their beliefs. They evangelized; they bore witness publicly and often under adverse
conditions. These people were and are the backbone of the international movement. You
can find them running or participating in literally thousands of local societies and public
circles in 1870.
61
· fourth-circle Spiritualists: ordinary believers who incorporated elements of the Modern
Spiritualist belief system—or the entire belief system—into their personal worldview, but
who did not organize locally, join locally, or bear witness in any public sense to those
beliefs. Syncretists, fair-weather believers - or ordinary folks. There were 10 to 100 fourth-
circle Spiritualists for every third circle Spiritualist in 1870, just as there are, today (if we
credit surveys and polls) millions of Americans who believe in the possibility of direct
communication with angels (Christian and otherwise, superintending and personal).
There’s so much more to say about this topic....
——§——
Leslie Price responds below:
Spiritualism and Scholarship
All students are indebted to Marc Demarest for this analysis of academic scholarship
about Spiritualism. The exercise might be extended to similar writings on psychical
research, some of which, in avoiding the question of the reality or otherwise of the
phenomena studied by various scientists, surely limit the value of their theories. We may
hope that he will expand this blog post with a full-length critique in due course.
Other readers will have shared Marc’s reactions in studying such academic work. To take a
British example, Jenny Hazelgrove “Spiritualism and British Society Between the Wars”
(2000) gave little attention to such influential figures as Ernest Oaten or Winifred Moyes.
There are at least some easily available sources for these pioneers, but one of the reasons
for the Psypioneer project has always been the need to increase the easily available source
material on a wide range of early workers.
Let us acknowledge that the scholar approaching Spiritualism encounters a severe shortage
of general histories of the movement. Biographical accounts of mediums may leave one
with only a vague awareness of the institutional framework within which they worked.
Janet Oppenheim “The Other World; Spiritualism and Psychical Research in Great Britain
1850-1914 (1985) remains an outstanding exception of an integrated perspective.
Some fault rests with the Spiritualist Movement. Having failed for 150 years even to get a
clear and accurate perspective on the Fox sisters, they have been content with an extremely
limited understanding of their own later history. To take just one issue, Spiritualism is legal
in the UK, but as we have demonstrated in Psypioneer, a mythological broth persists in
which Winston Churchill and Helen Duncan sometimes overshadow the actual fighters for
freedom.
Let us respond to Marc’s critique by encouraging more and better historical study of these
movements by academics and lay persons alike.
——§——
62
The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations
in England
Catherine (Kate) Elizabeth Wood 1854-1884
Continued from PP7.11:—9
Previous issues in this series should be consulted for more on Kate Wood’s physical
mediumship, for example; securing methods used to restrain her, and source references. At
the end of this concluding article on Miss Wood the issues are listed. In the previous issue
we noted:
After spending a week at Derby, Kate agreed to returned to Belper and
accept some new challenges: (1)—for the spirit to materialise inside the cabinet
and come out whilst the medium sat in circle; (2)—for the spirit to materialise
outside the cabinet while the medium sat inside; (3)—to obtain moulds of spirit
hands or feet while the medium was detained inside the screwed up cage.
Kate Wood completed her third and final challenge; to obtain moulds of spirit hands or feet
while the medium was detained inside the screwed up cage. The early production of Spirit
Moulds has not been well documented, but when this phenomenon resurfaced in the 1920’s
it was better documented and mainly published in psychical research journals, though
many are not easily accessible.10
Another problem is that the many physical mediums
producing this kind of phenomenon mostly in the mid 1870’s, did so very briefly. Early
detailed accounts are few and far between, Annie Mellon produced paraffin-wax moulds at
Weir’s Court, Newcastle-on-Tyne in April 1877 (she was then Miss Fairlamb), but a
written account (taken from the minutes) was not published until May 27th, 1893 by James
Burns in his Medium and Daybreak. That account will be republished in our forthcoming
series about Annie Mellon.
Below is the full account of Kate Wood’s third test, initially published in the Medium and
Daybreak, and later in Some Reminiscences, (1900):11
9
Pages 366-373:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.11November2011.pdf
10
The most comprehensive research on paraffin moulds was carried out by Dr. Gustave Geley, and recorded
in his book Clairvoyance and Materialisation. English translation published by T. Fisher Unwin Limited,
London, 1927. The experiments were carried out with the Polish medium Franek Kluski, commencing at the
International Metapsychic Institute, Paris on November 8th, 1920.
11
Some Reminiscences, pages 118-124
63
On Sunday morning, February 18th, 1877:
In America, through the mediumship of Mrs. Hardy,12
spirit-moulds have been obtained
under test conditions, sceptics themselves being the, judges. The moulds were produced
inside a wire cage securely fastened, while the medium sat at a distance from it. In making
our experiment we proposed to reverse the American method by placing the medium in the
cage, and having the moulds produced outside. It was carefully noted that when Miss
Wood entered the seance room she had nothing in her hands. Divesting herself of her
jacket, she at once entered the cage, and was secured to the chair as before, which could not
have been done without completely crushing articles so fragile as spirit-moulds, had she
any such about her person. The cage door was then screwed up.
Two pails having been, provided, a pound of paraffin wax was cut into small pieces,
and placed in one of the pails; into this pail was poured boiling water until it was three-
parts full, and into the other pail an equal quantity of cold water. The pails were then placed
in the cabinet about twelve inches from the side of the cage.
We were then informed that in order to accomplish their purpose it would be necessary
to open the cage door a few inches.
The screws were taken out, and an opening made, through which a very small baby
could not have been passed, the table being placed against the door as before. We were not
kept long in doubt as to the character of the manifestations; and in the manifestations that
were given to us we had, I think, at least, a very strong intimation that, when the best
mental and physical conditions are offered to the spirits, they, on their part, to the extent of
their knowledge and power, will work, to make the demonstration as complete as can be
secured by our best devised tests. The old proverb, “seeing is believing” was on this
occasion fitly and beautifully illustrated. We had not asked to see spirit-moulds made; we
professed to be content if we found them in the cabinet while the medium was secured in
the cage, an experience, which has not hitherto, I believe, been improved upon.
But the workers on the other side,—doubtless arguing, just as logically as we should on
this, that if one person sitting close to another saw that other put a boot on his foot and pull
it off again, it would be exceedingly difficult for that person not to believe he had seen the
thing done—addressed themselves to the task of MAKING SPIRIT-MOULDS BEFORE
OUR EYES.
[Being seated, we commenced to sing a hymn, when “Pocka” called out—
12
The first well-publicised spirit paraffin-wax hand moulds, were pioneered in America by Prof. W. Denton
with the Boston medium Mrs. M. M. Hardy in the mid 1870’s. Later she and her husband were caught in
deliberate fraud. She was exposed in the Spiritual Scientist March 30, 1876
64
“Mr. Smedley, come inside the cabinet”
I immediately passed behind the curtains,
and, looking into the cage, I could not see
either medium or chair, but instead “a pillar
of cloud.”
“What do you wish me to do?” I asked.
A voice from the midst of the cloud
answered, “You must take the pails out;
‘Benny’ say he’s going to try and make the
moulds outside the cabinet, so that you can
all see them made. Won’t you like that
better?”
“Yes; very much,” I replied.
When moving the pails I dipped my
finger into the hot water, and found the wax
was melted and floating on the top; a
coating of it remained on my finger till it
was washed off at home with hot water,
soap, and brush.
As soon as the pails were put in the
centre of the circle we commenced to sing,
and when singing the second hymn the
curtains were opened by “Benny,” who
stepped out, laid his right hand heavily on
my left shoulder, and said, “Good morning to ye all.”
“Good morning, ‘Benny.’ How do you find the conditions?” was asked.
“Oh, very good; please let me have the loan of your chair,” be answered.
I handed him my chair, which he placed close to the pails, his back being about a foot
clear of the curtains. When he was seated, he gathered up his white robe and commenced in
a vigorous and business-like way to dip his left foot first in the hot and then in the cold pail
alternately, for about ten times; then placing his left leg over his right knee, be gently,
tapped the waged foot all round, and, taking off a beautiful was mould, held it up so that all
could see it, and then handed it to Mr. Adshead, who said—
“Oh, thank you, ‘Benny’.”
I said, “ ‘Benny,’ I suppose you are a good Scotchman; are you not breaking the Sabbath
by making moulds to-day?” To which he at once replied—
65
“Eh, mon! ye’re havin’ sick a sarmon on the ‘Immortality of the Soul’ as they’ll nae get
in any of the kirks to-day!”
“Hear! hear ! ! Well done, ‘Benny,’ called out several of the friends.—AS.13
]
“Benny,” remembering he had asked that the cage door might be partially opened, and
anxious that this concession should not in any respect diminish the completeness of the test
under which the moulds had been obtained, undertook in his own way to convince us that
the medium was not in any sense an active participant in the work which had been done.
Therefore, approaching the cage door he closed it, and pushed the table up closely
against it; he then took my right arm in both his hands, and pressed it firmly on the table, as
much as to say, “You take care it does not move an inch,” which duty I faithfully
discharged.
Stooping down, he drew the musical box from beneath the table, and, carrying it
towards the cage door, placed it on one end on the floor, the other end leaning against the
door, the position of the box then being such that had the door been opened, the box must
have been thrown backwards.
He then replaced the chair in its former position, and, after shaking hands and
conversing with those around him, he bid us adieu and retired within the curtains.
[We were all excitement directly, and were leaving our seats to examine the mould,
when “Benny” opened the curtains again and said—
“What’s to do now; why are ye all so excited?”
“We thought the seance was over,” I replied.
No, no; all sit down; be very quiet and sing again, an’ we’ll try an’ send a wee lassie out
to make a mould of her foot—ye’ll then see the difference between the two,” said ‘Benny.”
After taking our seats again and singing for a short time, the curtains opened and
“Maggie,” a beautiful female form in snow-white robes, stepped gently out, and, after
bowing gracefully, pointed to my chair, which I placed close to the pails. “Maggie” seated
herself, and, gathering up her long robes, pursued the same course that “Benny” had done,
dipping her left foot alternately in the hot and cold water, until the work was finished, when
she handed a beautiful mould of her foot to Mr. Adshead. “Maggie” essayed to repeat the
experiment with her right foot, but after dipping it two or three times, in consequence, I
presume, of her power failing, she rose from her seat, bowed very politely, went into the
cabinet, and did not return.—A.S.]
13
Alfred Smedley
66
The whole process, from the first dip
to the finished mould, was distinctly
seen, and the fact that they were made as
stated rests on as good evidence as can
be offered for the shining of the sun, or
the falling of snow.
Had there been a lingering suspicion
in the mind of anyone present that the
medium by some “subtle device or
otherwise”—for in this case we could not
speak of “palmistry” —had managed to
present us with an impression of her own
little foot, it was destined to be for ever
destroyed the moment “Benny,” at my
request, placed in my hand the mould we
saw him take from his foot.
It will thus be seen, when I state that
the table never moved, and that at the
close of the seance the musical box was
found resting against the cage door, and
the medium inside the cage entranced
and secured to the chair, that the moulds were given to us under a test as absolute as though
the cage door had been screwed up. But supposing the cage test had been less complete
than it was, we are confronted by other difficulties which require explanation. In the first
place, as a rule individuals have not two left feet, but the moulds w e got were both taken
from left feet; and again the anatomical structure and proportions of both right and left foot
in most individuals is so much alike the shoemaker finds it enough for his purpose to
measure one; but I find the outside measurement of the mould taken from “Benny’s” foot is
nine inches in length and four in breadth, while that taken from “Maggie’s” foot is eight
inches in length and two and a quarter in breadth. Again, the cabinet was so surrounded and
watched on every side, by no conceivable possibility could a human being introduce
himself or herself without instant detection; whilst at the close of the seance, when an
article of some kind was asked for in which to place the moulds for conveyance to my
house, nothing could be found, not even a sheet of paper could be had, until one large
enough for the purpose was brought from a friend’s house. I ask, then, if the moulds of
which I have been speaking were not taken from the feet of the medium—and in view of
the facts I have narrated who will dare say they were?—from whose feet were they taken?
Here is a wall against which sceptical scientists, bigoted theologians, conjurers, and
incompetent judges are invited to knock their heads, with the caution, that, in the event of a
collision, the heads will be smashed, for assuredly this wall, like every other fact in nature,
will stand firm as the everlasting hills.
67
My own theory—and I shall hold it until I get a better—is, these moulds are indeed the
“footprints of angels,” and as such they are to me very precious.
In some of the cathedrals of Europe there are servitors who, for a consideration, will
open for inspection cabinets filled with holy relics, some of which, on account of their
preciousness, are deposited in golden caskets, and to which there clings the mysterious
sanctity of ages, but amongst these there is to be found nothing so calculated to stir to its
deepest depths the human soul as these moulds; for, granting these relics are what they are
represented to be, they at best but illustrate the history of a dead past, whereas our simple
piece of wax, so moulded, like the falling apple which to the prophetic eye of Newton
brought a revelation big with glorious results, tells of a future, compared with which the
highest developments of life and culture hitherto attained are like the faintest streaks of
morning light when compared with the full unclouded splendour of noonday.
My task is now finished. I have endeavoured to give a faithful record of the facts
connected with Miss Wood’s visit to Derbyshire, in the order of their occurrence.
Doubtless, my statement in some of its details to a large number of persons will appear
incredible. But I am of opinion that if in any place conditions as good as those we were
able to offer Miss Wood in Belper and Derby are given, the same results may be obtained
through her mediumship.
I feel it in my heart to say that the beat thanks of the of the great body of investigators
into Spiritualism in this country are due to our friends in Newcastle, who have succeeded in
developing to such a state of perfection so excellent a servant of the spirit-world.
Of Miss Wood as a medium I cannot speak too highly. By her conduct during the ordeal
through which she passed, she gained for herself the full confidence and esteem of all who
were privileged to attend her seances. I can only hope that her career in the future will be as
pleasant as was her short sojourn in Derbyshire.—W.P.A. [Adshead]
——§——
68
WHAT BECAME OF THE MOULDS?
Alfred Smedley.14
Mr. Adshead kept them in a case made for the purpose for a number of years, and
showed them to any person wishing to see them. I was under the impression that they were
afterwards sent to the Hon. A. Aksakoff, Privy Councillor, of St. Petersburg, and that he
returned plaster casts of the feet instead of the moulds. I wrote through a friend in London
to obtain information on the point, and received a letter in reply as follows, viz:—
ST. PETERSBURG, December 16th, 1899.
In 1886 I was printing my answer to Hartmann and was in quest of good
moulds; so wrote to Mr. Adshead, whose account had read in the Medium and
Daybreak, asking him to send me his, but he was unwilling to part with them.
Finally, I persuaded him to take casts of the moulds, this being the best
means for preserving the fact, as the moulds were already becoming
deteriorated.
To this he ultimately agreed. He first took photos of the moulds, then run the
moulds full of plaster, and then dissolved the wax moulds from the plaster casts,
by putting them in boiling water.
I have two photos of the wax moulds and three of the plaster casts, taken by
Mr. Schmidt, of Belper.
As I afterwards received some other casts (obtained in presence of the same
medium) from Mrs. Reimers; also from Mr. Oxley, of Manchester, I decided to
publish the latter, which were the most perfect, although Mr. Adshead’s have an
intrinsic value.
(Signed) ALEXANDER AKSAKOFF.
The plaster casts, made at the solicitation of the Hon. A. Aksakoff, have been handed to
me, and are now in my possession, so that any person desiring to see them can do so at my
house.
I may here state that while Miss Wood was in Belper she was the guest of my brother
Frederick and wife one week, and of my brother Samuel and wife the second week. During
the week she was in Derby she was the guest of Mrs. Ford, who has now been my wife
nearly 20 years. They have all borne testimony to her remarkable and genuine mediumship.
One thing that struck me was that she readily submitted to any test we suggested, and
never appeared to be the least concerned as to whether any manifestations appeared or not.
14
Some Reminiscences pages 127-128
69
In conclusion, I commenced to investigate as a thorough sceptic as to spirit return. For a
considerable time I was suspicious of fraud, but did not allow my suspicion to prevent me
from honestly investigating the subject. Looking back over the quarter of a century that has
passed, I have no reason to doubt the genuineness of any of the manifestations recorded in
these pages, and am quite certain as to those witnessed in the presence of Miss Wood in
Belper.
I can bear testimony, on oath, that they were genuine with as much confidence as I can
to any incidents that have come under my own notice in other departments during the
whole period of my life.
——§——
Adshead’s words just a few months earlier (I can only hope that her career in the future
will be as pleasant as was her short sojourn in Derbyshire) were soon followed by the
announcement:
MISS WOOD CAUGHT PERSONATING A SPIRIT.
The Medium and Daybreak:—15
The Blackburn Times of Saturday last contains three columns of a report of a series of
seances held with Miss Wood at Blackburn. There were present on the first occasion
twenty-eight or twenty-nine sitters, including, three ladies, and a newspaper reporter: and a
doctor were the tyers of the medium. From the flippant, slangy, self-sufficient style in
which the report is written, it is easy to be guessed what kind of influence predominated in
the circle. The reporter proceeds upon the modest assumption that his knowledge of
Spiritualism, which he confesses is nil, comprises all that can be known on the subject. The
findings of previous investigators, with which he seems to be familiar, are utterly ignored
by him, and the only ostensible object which he could possibly have had in attending the
seances, was not to discover truth, but to expose the assumed trickery of the medium. In
this he was seconded by certain non-Spiritualist friends, and these having obtained, it
would appear, a most, active position in the circle, their sphere of thought had the
opportunity of dominating on the occasion. It is reported that Miss Wood bent down her
head, that her neck might not be properly tied, and bent her wrists, that the fastenings might
be loose when her hands were straightened out, all of which remarkable phenomena are
quite new to those who have had a very lengthy experience with the medium. After
repeated failures, with the exception of a figure appearing in a very dim light, the reporter
and his friends were requested to stop away, after which other seances were held. These
are reported in the Blackburn Times, as follows:—
15
The Medium and Daybreak, August 17th, 1877, pages 523-524.
70
Since the above was placed in type, our worst suspicions have been realised; the
medium bas been caught imposing upon the circle—caught in the very act of playing the
spirit. It appears that the committee, finding it was impossible to have satisfactory
manifestations whilst so many “sceptical minds” were in their midst, went through a
weeding-out process, and recommenced sitting on Monday last with a smaller circle,
understood to be composed of thorough-going Spiritualists. The seances were held at the
house of a friend; and it was believed that they would thus obtain such phenomena as were
witnessed during Miss Wood’s first visit to Blackburn. There was nothing at all on
Monday; but on Tuesday night “Pocks” did something more than take possession of the
medium; she took possession of the sitters by appearing in their midst, and distributed
biscuits and kisses to those whom she thought worthy of such spiritual favours. The
biscuits, we should, explain, were handed to her; but the dessert, in the way of kisses, was
all her own.
One of the sitters, Mr. T. E. Atkinson, of 76, Whalley Road, has been looked upon all
along as a confirmed believer, but the fact is that he was a confirmed sceptic after all be
had seen; and when he observed “Pocks” supplying him with a bit of biscuit, be was more
than ever assured that it was the medium on her knees. Shortly afterwards he disengaged
one hand, and lightly touched “Pocka’s” garment—a circumstance which caused her to get
out of his reach, and to complain when she returned to the chair that someone had been
attempting to poke holes in her dress.
On Wednesday night, sitting was resumed under customary conditions, that is, the
medium was tied more or less securely to a chair, which was placed in a recess with a
curtain before it. Mr. Atkinson was present with two friends in, court in the shape of his
wife and a grown up daughter. “Pocks” affirmed that everything was favourable, and that
good manifestations might be expected. Indeed, it was intimated that three spirits might
appear at once; but nothing was seen until about eleven o’clock, when several present saw
a form emerge from the recess, and immediately afterwards various sitters on the shadier
side of the room were touched with a tube, or fan, provided for the purpose.
It was really so dark that our wide-awake friend could not see “the spirit,” though he
could hear the taps being administered on the other side of the room. But he was not to be
imposed upon any longer; and was determined, if he could, to make a seizure, as he had not
signed any regulations, and was fettered by no promise. It was the last seance of the series,
and his only chance of exposing the humbug; so, with a courage which does him great
credit, and guided by his ears, he dashed across the room, and made a grasp at the form,
which, however, slipped through his hands. It became a race then for the recess, but the
vigilant sceptic was more alert this time, and seized the figure whilst it was still amongst
the sitters. What a struggle then ensued! It was as if life and death on both sides depended
upon it, though there was no screaming and not a word was said.
The company seemed paralysed; there was much to hear, but nothing to see, and they
knew not what it meant. The strong man proved in the end too powerful for the desperate
woman; and when matches were lighted by Mrs. and Miss Atkinson, the medium was
71
found on the floor, near the curtain of the recess, in attire which was confined to chemise,
stockings, and a pair of —!
Miss Wood braved it out to the last, hardened sinner as she is, and speaking as “Pocks,”
after being assisted to her chair, declared that she had been controlled by an evil spirit, who
had all but stripped her naked, and sent her out in the circle. This was too much for Mr.
Atkinson, who gave his opinion of what he called her “devilment,” and went so far as to
say that, unless every penny that had been paid for the seances this week and last was
returned to the sitters, he would put the case in the hands of the police.
Fortunately no money had been paid to the medium, and the committee finally assenting
to these terms, Miss Wood has since had to sign a document foregoing all claim upon them
for her services.
The affair has naturally caused a good deal of stir in the town; and the prevalent opinion
is that, after a failure so complete, and an exposure so discreditable, we shall hear no more
for some time of paid mediums in Blackburn.
A letter from a local Spiritualist informs us that the above report of the capture of Miss
Wood is sufficiently accurate to establish the main fact, which we readily accept, and are
not sorry that it has happened, for which feeling we will give our reasons. We thought Miss
Wood had had enough of the “committee” business at Macclesfield, but if she required
further experience in that line, we hope she has now had a sufficiency. Every seance should
be under the control of one individual, and that a spiritually-minded one. This case affords
valuable instruction, to be added to that which has already been gathered from the public
management of mediums. When a remarkable medium permits himself or herself to be
pitted against the detective abilities of the sceptical public, he or she is sure to be run down
at last. The reason is this: these test-seance holders do not meet for a spiritual purpose at
all, but one which is of an entirely opposite character, the object being to show that what
previous investigators have regarded as spiritual, is due only to mercenary tricks.
Charged to the brim with these infamous purposes, a few positive individuals soon
dominate over the whole circle, and their influence becomes the ruling element at the
disposal of the spiritual operators. Once thoroughly charged with such surrounding’s, a
medium is incapable of being properly used, until purified by a successive run of sittings
under spiritual circumstances. In the case before us we have the medium subjected to these
derogatory surroundings for a succession of nights, to which demoralising process the
residue of the sitters, who formed the last two seances, had also been subjected. In these
further attempts the sitters were joined by parties actuated by the detective doctrine, and
ready prepared to put it in force to the utmost. The result is described above. During the
unconscious state the medium is made the victim of the circumstances by which she is
surrounded, and either through the perverted action of some of her own controls, or the
intrusion of other spirits, she is reduced to the disgraceful position in which she was found.
72
This is our view of the affair. We do not for a moment regard Miss Wood as a trickster,
or that the phenomena hitherto occurring through her mediumship have been other than
genuine. The conditions which have been observed on numberless other occasions, have
been such as to utterly preclude the supposition that the phenomena were due to imposture
of medium or spirit. We are not at all sorry that this seemingly painful event has happened,
and Miss Wood does not deserve one grain of pity, neither do her committee merit the
slightest commiseration at the chagrin with which they have been rewarded. If mediums
and so-called Spiritualists will continue to investigate without spirituality, and in open
defiance of what is already known of the laws of spirit-communion, they must just put up
with the consequences until they are wise enough to profit by their experiences.
If Miss Wood will sell herself to the degrading manipulations of newspaper reporters,
that they may, through her disgrace, earn a pittance by writing special reports of their
ignoble triumphs, she must be content with the wages of such conduct. And if sitters at a
spirit-circle will regale themselves by bantering with a poor little Indian spirit rather then
engaging in prayer to God for light and guidance, and the presence of His ministering
angels, then it is well that they should be held up to the ridicule of the public. We do not
blame poor “Pocka,” she is an undeveloped child, and knows no better. We do not blame
Miss Wood, she has possibly suffered enough by her folly, and has the stigma of
dishonesty attached to her which really she does not deserve. We do not blame the circle,
or committee, for they were too ignorant to do aught else than blunder most foolishly.
We do not blame the newspaper man and his clique, for they are the victims of an
overweaning egotism, and occupy the zero place of knowledge in the scale of public
ignorance of the subject, and by their act they have further confirmed themselves in an
impregnable fortress of ignorance. We need not blame any of these parties, who all deserve
our pity, and at the same time we are heartily glad that they met with their deserts, for as far
as we can see, it serves them right, and we hope the experiences of Blackburn will be a
warning to not only the parties concerned, but to all who hear of the event, and are engaged
in the process of spiritual investigation.
——§——
Problems again arose five years later when Kate was again seized impersonating Pocka
during a séance at Peterbourgh. This alleged exposure was well covered by Light and by
the other major Spiritualist publications.16
Discussions naturally ensued for and against
Kate Wood and the continuance of privately held dark seances by leading Spiritualists and
well-known societies. Due to space, we will just publish the breaking news:
16
Namely the Medium and Daybreak and the Spiritualist
73
MISS C. E. WOOD EXPOSED.
Light:—17
[It is with deep regret that we publish the following communications, but fidelity to the
truth leaves us no alternative.—ED. “LIGHT.” (E. Dawson Rogers)]
To the Editor of “LIGHT.”
SIR,—Last night, Miss C. E. Wood, of Newcastle, gave a sitting at my house. There
were seventeen friends present, the majority Spiritualists. Miss Wood was tied to an
armchair by two gentlemen. After sitting for two hours, a form draped in white came from
the cabinet, then immediately retired. Then the supposed “Pocka” came out in white to a
small table in front of me, played two small musical boxes, gave some sweets to a
gentleman, kissed a lady, and chatted for some minutes. Then Mr. Cade, who is a medium,
and a sitter at Mr. Chapman’s circle, at Stamford, who sat on my left, suddenly seized the
supposed “Pocka,” and instead of a little Indian girl it was Miss Wood with her dress off,
and covered with muslin, part of which was secured. I have retained some, and Mr. Cade
part. In the interest of Spiritualism, I hope you will publish this, as Miss Wood is so well
known as a so-called professional medium. It is only loyalty to the cause that compels me
to discharge the painful duty of porting this unsatisfactory sitting.—Faithfully yours,
ROBERT CATLING.
Granville-street, Park-road, Peterborough,
September 12th, 1882.
_____
To the Editor of “LIGHT.”
SIR,—With your permission I would like to place on record an account of a seance at
which I was present in the house of Mr. Robert Catling, of this city.
For the information of your readers I may say that I have been very intimately
acquainted with Mr. Catling for about eight years; he has been a very devoted friend to the
cause of Spiritualism before I knew him and ever since. Miss Wood arrived at his residence
on Thursday, 7th inst. She was received and treated as a friend by Mrs. and Mr. Catling till
the night of Monday, 11th inst., when the séance was held about which I wish to speak.
I may say that Mr. and Mrs. Catling went with Miss Wood to Stamford on Sunday, the
10th inst., when a séance was held at Mr. Chapman’s Lyceum. This séance gave great
satisfaction to all but one or two. Mr. Cade, who is to some extent identified with the
Spiritual movement in Stamford, was present, but was not satisfied with what he saw, and
he came to Peterborough on Monday evening, to be present at our séance.
During the séance, while what was supposed to be “Pocha” was outside the cabinet, Mr.
Cade sprang forward, and there was a scuffle. The light was very dim. I stepped to the
17
Light, September 16, 1882 page 410.
74
cabinet, and could see Mr. Cade sitting in the chair in which the medium had been tied at
the beginning of the séance. He called for more light, and held a figure draped with white
in his arms, which seemed to struggle to get free. A gentleman who tried to turn up the
light turned it out in mistake. I kept my place for about a minute, and when the light was
turned on I could see that the figure with which Mr. Cade struggled was Miss Wood, the
medium. She had a quantity of muslin wrapped round her head and shoulders, but through
openings I could see parts of her body. I said to Mr. Cade, “We had better leave her to the
ladies.” I turned to call some of the ladies, and when I turned back again, in what seemed to
me about one minute’s time, Miss Wood was dressed in the black dress in which she
commenced the seance, and the muslin was hidden away. Mr. Cade said, “We must have
the muslin;” and after a gather severe struggle the muslin was found in some part of her,
and taken from her. These are a few of the disagreeable facts connected with this séance.
On Friday, when we were making arrangements for the Monday’s séance, I suggested as
a test that a piece of tape should be sewn round each of the medium’s wrists, and the ends
given to the sitters to hold, but Miss Wood objected to this, I think, very reasonable test.18
As the result of what I have seen, I have come to the painful conclusion that Miss Wood
deliberately planned the deception, and that practice has made her too perfect in the art of
deceiving.
I did not feel the least excited through the whole séance, and I do not feel the least
discouraged now. Fraudulent mediums will always exist in proportion to foolish people.
Let us study Spiritualism by spiritual methods. Let us get our heads clear and keep them
so, and let us—
“Keep a brave heart still.”
When we have cleared the path of folly and fraud true spiritual manifestations will—
“Come as a waking joy
After bad dreams,”
THOS. MCKINNEY,
New Fletton, Peterborough,
September 12th, 1882.
——§——
18
In response Miss Wood stated in her letter; dated September 16th, 1882 and published in Light, on
September 23rd, 1882:—“ Mr, McKinney says I objected to what he calls the “reasonable test” of a piece of
tape sewn around each of my wrists, the ends to be held by sitters. This is put by him in such a way as to
constitute a perversion of the truth. The fact is that two or three days before, in the, course of conversation,
such a test was mentioned, but I recommended its non-application, as I thought that the sitters holding the
tapes might, through their inexperience of such phenomena, jerk my wrists and injure me during any possible
manifestation; but I offered to have my wrists sewn in the manner suggested, the ends of the tape to be sealed
on both wall and floor in view of the circle.”
75
There are numerous reports of Kate Wood being very susceptible, perhaps more than most
physical mediums, to evil spirits—a better and more correct term would be low spirits.19
The very nature of materialisation is physical mediumship that would in principle attract
lower spirits; we can note in the John King seances with Charles Williams that they were
sometimes of rough character.20
Kate was developed in what most Spiritualists would call
the correct way that is; under the protection and harmonious auspices of development
groups run by experienced Spiritualists, Kate fell into such responsible hands at the
Newcastle Spiritual Evidence Society, Newcastle-on Tyne. Venturing away in 1876, she
initially maintained early protection and procedure, at the Derbyshire experiments, where
she received careful and judicious supervision. Adshead at Belper recorded an incident of
low spirits on February 13th, 1877:21
“As usual, Miss Wood, on entering the seance-room, went at once into the
cage, was bound and sealed to her chair, and the door of the cage screwed up.
As I was about to let the curtain drop in front of the cage I observed Miss Wood
lying back in the chair as in a death-swoon. Thinking she was perhaps more
deeply entranced than usual, I said nothing. She must have remained in that
condition for nearly a quarter of an hour, as not the slightest movement was
heard.
“Then “Pocka” took control, and informed us the conditions were bad; that
in coming to the seance some drunken men had jostled against the medium; that
spirits who had been drunkards in earth-life were present, and their influence
would prevent any manifestations taking place that evening; that, on being
bound, the medium had been controlled by a spirit who had committed suicide
by poison, and that she had been injuriously affected by the control; that the
cage must be opened and the medium released at once, taken home under
control and put to bed. This was done, and she remained under control until a
late hour.”
There was no doubt that Kate Wood was seized and found to be impersonating “Pocka” in
these two exposures. The question was: did Kate consciously premeditate the fraud or was
the fraud carried out unconsciously by low mischievous spirits. Today the debate prevails;
some will argue that the medium premeditated the fraud and was therefore conscious of
their actions; whilst others would say that due to the influence of low mischievous spirits,
or sitters in the séance, the medium was totally unaware of their actions and was in a
19
See Psypioneer Volume 7, No.8:—Facts from the History of Miss Wood’s Development as a Medium –
Mrs. Mould, pages 257-264:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.8August2011.pdf
20
See Psypioneer Volume 7, No.1 (continued over several issues):—Herne and Williams:—Professional
Partnership, pages 19-30:— http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.1January2011.pdf
21
Some Reminiscences, pages 89-99 Adshead noted:—“We were afterwards informed by those who
accompanied Miss Wood to the seance that in passing along the street two drunken men rushed from the road
on to the pavement, nearly knocking the medium down. This fact, to those who know anything of sensitives
and the laws which govern mediumship, will be premiss enough on which to build a theory which will
account for the peculiar occurrences of the evening.”
76
somnambulistic state, and termed unconscious fraud. Some time after the Peterborough
affair, Kate went to Australia and in a little over two years she was dead:
Saturday 13 December 1884:22
“Catherine Woods, a medium well-known in spiritualistic circles in the
colonies and England, died of typhoid fever yesterday, aged 26, and was buried
to day. She had held several private séances here.”
It is without doubt that Catherine (Kate) Elizabeth Wood submitted to some of the most
difficult and stringent tests ever made on a physical medium; most of these she
accomplished under the given conditions—for that we must applaud her achievements.
Paul J. Gaunt.
Catherine (Kate) Elizabeth Wood 1854-1884
1). – Started in Psypioneer 7.7:—Miss Wood’s Mediumship, by T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., Newcastle-on-Tyne,
pages 229-232:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.7July2011.pdf
2). – Continued Psypioneer 7.8:—Facts from the History of Miss Wood’s Development as a Medium, by
Mrs. Mould, Newcastle-on-Tyne, pages 257-264:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.8August2011.pdf
3). – Continued Psypioneer 7.9:—Seances – experiments at Newcastle-upon-Tyne – later at Belper,
Derbyshire, pages291-298:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.9September2011.pdf
4). – Continued Psypioneer 7.11:—After spending a week at Derby, Kate – return to Belper and accepted
more tests. In addition, a séance report with the “Sidgwick Group,” (F. W. H. Myers, Edmund Gurney), pages
366-373:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.11November2011.pdf
5). – Concludes in this issue 8.2:—Third Test (Wax) Moulds at Belper, Miss Wood Caught Personating a
Spirit – The Medium and Daybreak, Miss C. E. Wood exposed – Light.
——§——
22
Thanks are due to Lis Warwood for sending me this clipping:—The Argus (Melbourne, Vic.: 1848-1954),
Saturday 13 December 1884, page 10. We can note in our heading we give the dates (October) 1854-1884
making Kate 30 years old, whereas this obituary states she was 26 years old. Our date is taken from Miss
Wood’s Mediumship by T.P. Barkas, Kate was introduced to the Newcastle Society in 1872 by her father –
and then in November 1873 she was engaged as a medium age 19. If we consider the obituary age she would
have been 15.
77
Photograph References:
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (page 43)
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science, Psychic Science,
Volume II April 1923, to January 1924.
Imperator (page 48)
Frontispiece: The “Controls” of Stainton Moses (“M.A. Oxon.”) A.W. Trethewy.
Pages 33-34:
The portrait of Imperator which forms the frontispiece of the present book
has been reproduced from a photograph in the possession of the late Mr.
Charlton T. Speer by his kind permission. The original must have been a sketch
made by Stainton Moses as an automatic drawing; it is probably that mentioned
on March 3rd, in Book XV. The spirit who controlled his hand for the purpose
left the Band and his name was not disclosed.
Stainton Moses Portrait (page 49)
Photograph is from the collection of Canon William V. Rauscher a leading Christian
parapsychologist in America, Rauscher an Episcopal Priest, Psychic Researcher, Magician,
Magic Historian, Lecturer and Author. Bill has supplied various articles to Psypioneer over
the years: Remembering Eileen J. Garrett, Thoughts of Muriel Hankey, Rev. William
Stainton Moses, M.A, also supplied material for articles Fraud Uncovered at Chesterfield
Spiritualist Camp. He has authored numerous books for example The Houdini Code
Mystery- a Spirit Secret Solved, 2000. Leslie Price reviewed Rauscher’s Religion, Magic,
and the Supernatural Published 2006. (Psypioneer on the Spiritual Frontier in America
(3.2) February 2007) Use our Psypioneer search engine at www.woodlandway.org key word –
Rauscher.
See his website:—http://www.mysticlightpress.com/index.php?page_id=14
Marc Demarest (page 55)
See Marc’s site: www.ehbritten.org
Ground Plan of the Room (page 64 )
Page 125: Some Reminiscences …
Paraffin Wax Moulds of Materialised Spirits’ Feet (page 66)
Page 119: Some Reminiscences …
——§——
78
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price
pages 294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan The Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling,
by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
http://www.theohistory.org then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page
7:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9., available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback
ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt
pages 1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry H.
Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9.,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45 Psypioneer references by
Leslie Price pages 39-42:— http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009.
ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-
056667-1., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
79
How to obtain this free JournalF
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
——§——
