{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 6352","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n60_may_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N60 May 1889","mylang":"de"}
No. LX.-VoL. IV.
JOURNAL
OF THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTBNT8.
PAU_
Ne... Members and A.uoctate8 •• 66
Meeting of Council.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .... 66
New Number of the Pr««di"ll' of the American Society for Psychical Reaearch 66
ea- supplied to the Literary Committee . . . . . . . . .• . . . . 67
Correspondenoe: Continuous Activity of Secondary Conacloumeu .. 7e1
.. Duplex versus Multiplex Personality .. 78
Supplementary Library Catalogue . . .. . . !!O
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
NEW ASSOCIATES.
BATES, MISS, care of London and County Bank, Maidstone.
BEER, MRS., 14, Stratton-street, Piccadilly, London, W.
COWAN, MRS., Valleyfield, Penicuik, N.B.
EARDLEY, LADY, 4, Lancaster-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
KEATINGE, MRS., R. H., 62, Lexham-gardens, Kensington, London,
W.
PAGET, LADY, The Embassy, Vienna.
SWAN, C. A., 10, Delamere-street, London, S.W.
TODD, MRs., Queen Anne-chambers, Bond-street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council held on April 5th, the President in
the chair, the following Members were also present:-Dr. A. T.
Myers, Lieut.-Colonel Hartley, and Messrs. T. Barkworth, F. W.
H. Myers, Frank Podmore, and R. Pearsall Smith.
Eight new Associates, whose names and addresses are given
above, were elected.
Several presents to the Library were on the table, the particulars
of which are given on another page. Votes of thanks were accorded
to the donors, especially to Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace for a parcel
of nearly 20 volumes.
It was agreed that the name of M. Leon Marillier should be
inserted on the" Objects," as Secretary for France.
Mr. R. H. Bates having given notice to terminate, at Mid-
summer next, his tenancy of the rooms let to him, it was resolved
that the needful steps be taken to secure a fresh tenant.
The next meeting of the Council was fixed for May 10th, at
5 p.m.
F
Digitized by Google
66 Journal of Society for P8ychical :&search. [May, 1889.
NEW NUMBER OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
The fourth number of the Proceeding' of the American Society
for Psychical Research, published in March of this year, contains
nearly 300 pages of matter of great and varied interest for all
readers who have given serious attention to our investigations. It
begins with some" Remarks" by Mr. Gurney-with a postscript by
Mr. Myers-concluding the controversy raised by Professor C. S.
Peirce on a portion of the evidence in Phantasms of the Living,
which occupied a considerable place in No. III. of the Proceeding'
of the American Society. Next comes an interesting paper by
Professor C. S. Minot, containing the results of a statistical inquiry
into the tendencies of average ,men and women, when asked to draw
diagrams, to select certain forms rather than others; 5,010 diagrams
were collected, 501 persons having responded to an invitation to
draw each 10 diagrams on a post-card. A comparison of these
showed a decidedly preponderant tendency to simple geometrical
figures. Thus there were 209 plain circles, and 72 circles with
inscribed figures, 174 plain squares and 62 with cross lines or figures
inscribed, 220 triangles, and 245 four-sided figures other than
squares, making 978 in all; so that if an American, unaware of this
"diagram-habit," is asked to draw a diagram, the chance of his
drawing one or other of these figures may be taken to be little less
than 1 in 5. Nearly half the whole number-2,344-were drawn
with simple straight lines; and 681 of the rest with simple curved
lines. Next in frequency to the circles, squares, triangles, and
four-sided figures came the faces, of which there are in all 96.
Professor Minot bases on these results a criticism of the experiments
on thought-transference recorded in several numbers of our Proceed-
ings. He says that "if we examine the drawings given in the
various articles above referred to, we notice that with the exception
of a single series the figures drawn by both t.he agents and
percipients are in greater part just such as our diagram tests have
shown to be the ones likely to be drawn." Hence the authors of the
articles "fail to offer the necessary proof that the proportion of
coincidences was greater than chance would account for." Professor
Minot does not attempt to show that chance would account for the
amount of coincidence in our experiments: and Professor W. James,
who writes a note on his paper, considers that" the revelation of the
diagram-habit has not appreciably weakened the evidence for
thought-transference" contained in our reports. Readers of this
Journal who will take the trouble to compare Professor Minot's
paper with our reports are, I think, likely to agree with Professor
Digitized by Google
May,1889.] JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. 67
James: at the same time Professor Minot's results are decidedly
interesting, and it will be advisable, in any future experiments of
the kind, to guard against the effect of "diagram-habits" by
employing diagrams selected at random from a larger number-say
.50 or 100-previously prepared.
The next long paper is a careful record of experiments in guess-
ing numbers by persons who have "tried hard to find" some
explanation of the results other than telepathy. Their success is
not of a dazzling kind-586 guesses were right out of 3,000, the
number that chance would tend to give being 300-but, as the
experimenters say, the preponderance of right guesses is sufficient
to prove some influence other than chance.
Then follows the piece de resistance of this part of the Proceedings
-the report of the Committee on Phantasms and Presentiments,
with a long Appendix and further comments by Professor Royce.
I must reserve my remarks on this for a separate paper. Mean-
while, I may invite our readers' attention to an able reply by Mr.
Hodgson to some objections to the theory of telepathy, which follows
Professor Royce's paper.-En.
CASES SUPPLIED TO THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
The following narrative from a lady, Miss W., known to Mr.
Myers, contains, first, a good instance of an illu~on,* which must be
-carefully distinguished from an hallucination. Secondly, an
account of a collective impression difficult to class. Thirdly, an
apparition of a living person at a time of danger, which, though not
at first-hand from the percipient, is at first-hand from a person
aware of the phantasm before the coincidence was known.
I am very pleased to comply with your request, by writing down the
following incidents, which, although occurring many years ago, I remember
in all essential details as if they had happened last week.
I saw what I am going to describe as plainly as ever I saw anything in
my life, and my youngest brother, were he still alive, would corroborate all
I say; he saw "it" (in the first instance relating to our father's death) as
<llearly as I did.
[AN ILLUSION.]
But first, as a proof that I am not easily duped by mere appearances, or
nly own imagination, the following circumstance may not be without value.
One everiing at dusk I went into my bedroom to fetch something I wanted
*"Illusion consists either in peroeiving a totally wrong object in place of the
right one, . . . or in investing the right object with wrong attributes."-
PhantaBm. of tke Livinll, VoL II., p. 184.
F2
Digitized by Google
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1889.
off the mantel-piece. A street lamp threw a slanting ray of light in at the
window, just sufficient to enable me to discern the dim outline of the chief
articles of furniture in the room. I was cautiously feeling for what I wanted
when, partially turning round, I perceived at a short distance behind me the
figure of a little old lady, sitting very sedately with her hands folded in her lap.
holding a white pocket-handkerchief. I was much startled, for I had not
before seen anyone in the room, and called out" Who's that? " but received
no answer, and, turning quite round to face my visitor, she immediately
vanished from sight. "Well," I thought, "this is strange!" I had left
all the rest of the household downstairs; it was hardly possible that anyone
could have followed me into the room without my being aware of it, and besides
the old lady was quite different from anyone I had ever seen. Being very
near-sighted, I began to think my eyes had played me a trick; so I resumed
my search in as nearly as possible the same position as before, and having
succeeded, was turning to come away, when lo! and behold! there sat the
little old lady as distinct as ever, with her funny little cap, dark dress, and
hands folded demurely over her white handkerchief. This time I turned
round quickly and marched up to the apparition, which vanished as suddenly
as before. And now being convinced that no one was playing me any trick.
I determined to find out, if possible, the why and because of the mystery.
Slowly resuming my former position by the fire-place, and again per-
ceiving the figure, I moved my head slightly from side to side, and found
that it did the same. I then went slowly backwards, keeping my head still
until I again reached the place, when deliberately turning round the mystery
was solved.
A small, polished, mahogany stand near the window, which I used as a.
cupboard for various trifles, made the body of the figure, a piece of paper
hanging from the partly-open door serving as the handkerchief; a vase on
the top formed thE> head and head-dress, and the slanting light falling upon
it, and the white curtain of the window completed the illusion. I destroyed
and re-made the figure several times, and was surprised to find how distinct
it appeared when the exact relative positions were maintained. Surely many
a " ghost " has had an as easily explicable origin! But no similar explana-
tion can be given to that which I now proceed to relate.
[A COLLECTIVE IMPRESSION.]
My dear father died of bronchitis about half-past 12 Saturday night.
November 16th, 1862, in his 62nd year.
The doctors had pronounced him out of danger at about half-past nine
the same evening, and between 11 and 12, my dear mother, at my earnest
solicitation, retired to take some much needed rest.
A little after 12 o'clock he roused from a rather restless doze, and I gave
him some beef tea, which he eagerly drank. Shortly afterwards he said in a
feeble but perfectly distinct voice, "I am dying." I said, "Oh, no, my
darling, you are only very weak." In a few minutes afterwards, evidently'
thinking it was my mother who was supporting him, and that I had left the
room, he said as clearly as before" My darling," then quickly, "Call Kate,
call Kate." I immediately requested a kind neighbour who had come in .t()
Digitized by Google
May, 1889.] JO'Urnal of Society for P8ychical Research. 69
assist, to call my mother, sister, and two brothers, and soon they were. all
assembled round the bed, I on the right-hand side, my arms round the dear
one from whom life was fBSt ebbing, my mother and youngest brother at the
foot of the bed, and the rest on the other side of it. The fire (which faced
the foot of the bed) gave a steady and su'.>dued light, and there WBS only one
lighted candle in the room. I am particular in thus recording these details,
in order to show that neither imagination nor th3 light in the room could
have had anything to do with what presently happened. In a few minutes
my dear father breathed his IBSt, and I gently laid his head down on the
pillow, supporting his chin BS I did so, at my mother's suggestion. Then
while we were looking on, scarcely realising what had occurred, suddenly I
and my youngest brother simultaneously whispered " Look," and we both
beheld distinctly a vaporous luminosity quivering in a circle over my father's
head. It WBS as if the breath itself had become radiant and hovered over
the prostrate form BS a bird might over the cage which had so long been its
home, ere it took its buoyant flight to freer air. None of the others saw it,
though my dear mother would have given much to have done so.
A night or two after, I am almost sure it WBS the Monday night, I was
lying awake, with a weary longing in my sad aching heart, when all at once
I saw above me a light, similar to the one just described, only larger and
brighter. I called softly to my mother, who WBS in another bed in the same
room, but she had fallen asleep, and I did not like to wake her; indeed the
radiance did not IBSt more than a brief minute, and then vanished BS suddenly
as it appeared. I sat up in bed and tried to discover some rational cause
for it, but could not.
The fire had been too over-loaded with slack when" banked up" to give
any light whatever; indeed I am not sure that it WBS not quite out. Certainly
no lBBt flicker could possibly have shot from such a dull mBSS. The night-
light was burning dimly and steadily, and not in a position to have thrown
any rays in that direction, and the house we then lived in WBS so surrounded
by its own grounds that no passing light from any road could have reached
the window, and even if that had been possible, the shape (a diffused circle)
and appearance altogether precluded the supposition that it could have
had such an origin. A feeling of peaceful trust stole over me, and I soon
afterwards fell into the first calm untroubled sleep I had had since my dear
father's death. .
I have abstained from mentioning these circumstances to any but a very
few, BS the generality of people attribute to mere imagination or hallucina-
tion of some kind any such manifestations, which they themselves have not
-experienced; but in the CBSes I have described no such explanation aftords,
to my mind, the slightest satisfactory clue to the mystery.
[Miss W.'s brother and sister corroborate as follows]:-
I can corroborate what my sister hBS above written, well remember;n~
the mention of the incidents at the time of their occurrence.
H. P. W.
G. H. W
Digitized by Google
70 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [May, 1889.
[A PHANTASM: OF THE LIVING.]
[L. 826.-Ae pn]
I will now relate something which happened to a dear friend of mine.
This is, however, of quite a different nature. Mrs. G. was a Yorkshire lady
of good family, the widow of a clergyman, and the mother of two sons, who-
were asilors in the merchant service.
One day, calling upon her during the absence of both her sons, I found
her looking very anxious and excited, and in reply to my inquiries as to the-
cause of her agitation, she said, " Oh! my dear Kate, I have seen R." (naming-
her youngest son). "Have you !" I exclaimed, much surprised. " Surely
he cannot be home yet, I thought he was somewhere in the Chinese seas."
"I don't know where he is," she answered, "but saw him yesterday as
plainly as I see you now !" She then explained that the previous after·
noon she was alone in the house, with the exception of one servant, every one
else having gone out. She was dressing in her room, and wishing to speak to
the servant, whom she thought she heard in an adjoining room, she went
to the door to call her, when she saw a young man coming upstairs. Think-·
ing it was W. (a young gentleman then staying on a visit), who had returned
unknown to her, she drew back, and, after allowing sufficient time for him
to reach his own room, again went to the door, and saw her own son R., in
a flannel suit, slowly ascending the stairs, bending forward and looking
very grave. She saw him come up all the stairs to the landing, and then he
vanished. "Oh, my dear," she concluded, .. I am sure something dreadful
has happened." I tried to console her as best I could, and suggested there
must have been some one in the house she was not aware of, and that, think-
ing of her son, she had unconsciously conjured up the phantom. But no·
one else was in the hoU8e at the time, and nothing could dissuade her from the·
conviction that the vision was a presentiment of evil tidings.
She related the circumstance to her brother and sister-in-law; the
latter, being of an extremely practical turn of mind, only laughed at her,
but she put down the date, and said, .. Well, we will see what comes of it."
Some time after, a letter from that son told her that at that very time he
had been in imminent danger of shipwreck; his ship had been caught in
a terrific norm, and all on board had given themselves up for lost, and he·
added, .. If I never prayed before in my life, I prayed then in agony that.
I might see my dear mother once more !" And the dates exactly tallied !
I do not know whether this incident will be of any value to you, uncor-
roborated as it must, I fear, remain, for all the principal actors in it have
been dead for some years, and since I saw you I have endeavoured in vain to·
find those to whom I thought it possible Mrs. G. might have related it; and
who might have been able to proffer some additional sidelight verifications.
But changes of residence, death, &c., have hitherto rendered my attempts.
fruitless.
[Miss W.'s brother and sister corroborate as follows]:-
I can corroborate what my sister has above written, well remembering:
the mention of the incidents at the time of their occurrence. G. H. W.
H. P. W.
[The date of this incident, Miss W. thinks, was about 1861 or '62.1
Digitized by Google
May, ~889.) JO'U'1"TI.al of Society for P8ychical Research.
We give next two cases of what purport to be
COLLECTIVE HALLUCINATIONS.
L. 827. ColI.
71
About the middle of September, 1881, between five and six in the evening,
whilst it was quite light, the Rev. J. Jones, vicar of Dunston, and myself
were fishing the North Tyne, at the junction of Blindburn with the Tyne,
from a bank of shingle, in length about 80 yards and about 10 wide, sloping
from a grass field to the margin of the river, with neither trees nor bush in
the immediate vicinity, and after fishing for a short time Mr. Jones came up
to me to ask for a match for the purpose of lighting his pipe. As we were
thus standing together lighting our pipes from the same match, I said to him•
.. Do you see that man fishing down there !" He replied, .. I have had my
eye upon him for the last 20 minutes, and as it may be Major-General Allgood.
I think I had better go down and apologise to him for the liberty we are
taking, as I have not yet been once to see him this year to ask his permission
to fish."
Accordingly Mr. Jones left me for this purpose, and when he came to
within about 15 or 20 yards of the supposed fisher, the figure suddenly 4is-
appeared and seemed to pass away into nothing, whilst we were both looking
on. Mr. Jones then turned round and looked towards me, but did not speak
until I had advanced to within a few paces of him, when he said... Ridley, I
hope nothing has happened at home." We at once proceeded to take down
our rods.
Anyone visiting the spot would at once see that no human being would
be able to get away without being seen by us. Let me now describe the
figure, as it appeared to us. It was dressed with felt hat, dark pilot jacket,
light drab fishing stockings, laced boots. We never saw the face. The
rod was a full-sized salmon rod, painted black, large brass reel. He was
throwing from over the right shoulder. Mr. Jones remarked that he was
throwing a good line. J might add that we left a Mr. Bartlett at our lodgings
that evening before going out to fish, and it would appear that during our
absence he had fallen asleep, as he informed us on our return. When ques-
tioned what he had been doing, he (to the best of my recollection) replied,
he had been sleeping.
JOHN JONES,
Vicar of Dunston, Durham.
J. H. WILll"IE RIDLEY, M.R.C.S.Eng.,
6, Collingwood-terrace, Gateshead.
October 12th, 1885.
[In an earlier but second-hand account of this incident sent by Mr. Hartig,
of Gateshead, we were informed that the dress and rod of the figure seen
resembled those of Mr. Bartlett, who had been fishing with the percipients
earlier in the day.1
In the following case it is easier than in the last to suppose that
the figure seen was a real man. On the other hand, if it is not an
Digitized by Google
72 Journal of Society fO'1' Psychical Research. [May, 1889.
instance of collective hallucination-and in that case a very remark-
able instance--it is certainly a singular coincidence of a double
mistake in identity with an unexpected disappearance.
L. 828. CoIl.
On the night of December 3rd, 1887 (Saturday) I was serving customers
• in the bar, together with my daughter. About a quarter past nine (as near
as I can remember) I saw William Frazer standing at the private door of the
bar that leads into the house. He said, "Well, how are you, old man 1 "
I replied, "Hallo! is that you, Frazer--long looked for, come at last." My
daughter, who was standing near me, behind the counter, turned round and
saw him also, for she called out, "Good gracious' Wonders never cease."
I had a tray of glasses in my hand at the time which I was just
about to carry upstairs, so I came to the door beside Frazer, took
him along to the smoke-room, and saw him enter. As he stood just within
the room, with his back almost turned to me, I said, " Content yourself there.
I'll be down in a minute." While saying this I remember distinctly I stood
with my foot on the bottom step of the stair. I also remember that as I
p8B8ed the smoke-room door I saw a 'stranger seated in an armchair near the
fire. I took the gl8B8es upstairs, and returned in about a minute and a-half;
but on entering the smoke-room I found neither Frazer nor the stranger
there. I thought Frazer must be hiding somewhere, as he was always
full of fun and .. up to larks," so I searched allover the house for
him, also over the yard and outhouses, as I thought he might have slipped
out there while I was upstairs. I concluded he must have gone home, and
would doubtless return the next day (Sunday) to settle up. I should explain
that the "Engineers' Friendly Society" meets at my house. Frazer is a
member, and before going on his last voyage he had asked me to keep his
subscriptions paid up while he was away. This I had done, so that when I
saw him at the bar-door, I naturally concluded he had called to settle with
me about his society's affairs. He did not call on the Sunday, and some
days later we saw the Oollingwood 88. (Frazer's vessel) reported in the
newspapers as arriving at Antwerp. When Frazer appeared, he was dressed
much as usual, with the exception of his hat. He carried a black leather
bag. He looked tired and dejected, and he did not look me straight in the
face.
On the night of December 19th (Monday) Frazer did actually call upon
us. We told him of our strange experience. He told us that on the night
of the 3rd the Oollingwood ss. sailed from Gibraltar for Antwerp. He didn't
say what he was doing at a quarter past nine-in fact, he laughed at the
whole affair. They had had some very rough weather on the voyage, hence
their detention. I settled up with him in connection with the Friendly
Society, then we walked out together. He was not so lively as usual; he
didn't feel much inclined to go to sea again at once-he thought he was
entitled to " a bit holiday." He asked my advice about it; I didn't advise
him either one way or the other, but left it to himself to decide. I regret
now that I didn't advise him to remain ashore, for the next day he sailed for
Savona in the Oollingwood, from the Tyne (owners, C. Tully and Co.). His
veSsel has not been heard of since leaving Gibraltar; she is now fully a month
Digitized by Google
lIay,I889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 73
overdue. Frazer's mother has not given up hopes of his safety yet--but
I have, so has the owner. The mother thinks the crew may have been picked
up by some outward bound vessel.
Frazer was a fine young feUow, 25 years of age, unmarried, second engineer
on board the Collingwood E.
I have never had a similar experience to this before. My daughter and
I are certain we were not mistaken in our man. We know no one else at all
l'eIIembling Frazer.
. GEORGE MADDISON.
Sunderland, Frbruary 6th, 1888.
The following is Miss Maddison's account:-
April 2lbt, 1888.
DEAR Sm,-According to promise, I forward you a statement with refer-
ence to the vision which was seen by my father and me on December
3rd, 1887, the object being William Frazer, who was at that time second
engineer of the E. Lord CoUingwood. On Saturday, December 3rd, 1887, at
about 9.15 p.m., father and I were standing in the bar, and the said William
Frazer came and stood at the bar door in the passage, and I heard him ad-
dress my father, saying, .. \-VeU, how are you, old man 1" Then father said,
.. Hallo, is that you, Frazer-long expected, come at last," and I myself said,
c. Good gracious! Wonders never cease," but I did not hear him reply,' I
served some drinks over the bar, and then walked into the smoke-room,
expecting to see Frazer, but was much surprised at only finding my
father there, to whom I said, .. Where is Frazer 1" Father said, .. I
don't know," and I said, .. Oh, he will be hiding." Father then looked
under the seats and down the yard, but Frazer W/IB not to be found,
80 we came to the' conclusion that he had boon in a hurry and slipped out,
and we fully expected to soo him the next day (Sunday, December 4th), but
we neither saw not heard of him until a few days afterwards when the BB.
Lord CoUingwood was announced as having left Gibraltar for Antwerp on the
3rd, this being the day that the vision appeared to us. About a fortnight
afterwards Frazer did arrive home, and as he sat on the comer of the smoke-
room table I told him what I had soon, but he just laughed. I saw him a
few times during his short stay at home, but he did not soom so full of fun
as usual. After a few days' stay in the Tyne he sailed again for Savona,
and I was sorry when I heard that his vessel was overdue, and I regret to
think that he is no more, for he was a fine young man and highly respected
by all who knew him.
I vouch for the above.
EMMA MADDISON.
[The testimony of the person in the smoke-room might have been
conclusive on the question of whether the figure seen was a real man
or not, but we learn from Mr. Nisbet, Honorary Associate of the
Society, who had an interview with Mr. and Miss Maddison, that
Mr. Maddison does not know who this person was.]
Digitized by Google
'74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1889.
M.668. HYPNOTIC EXPERIMENT.
The following account is from an Associate of the Society, known
to Professor Sidgwick, whose name, were we allowed to give it.
would certainly command confidence. The incident happened a..
long time ago.
June 17th, 1888.
Some years ago, while my mother and sister were still living, a relative.
while our guest, became seriously ill; a friend who had great faith in mes·
merism was anxious to try its effect upon her, and before commencing her
operations, she requested me to place my hand upon her shoulder, which
would, she said, increase her mesmeric power.
The invalid was lying in bed, with her back turned to the operator, behind
whom I stood, with my hand upon her shoulder, while the drawn curtain
concealed the patient from my gaze. After a while I happened, quite acci-
dentaUy, to place my disengaged hand upon a gold watch, lying upon a chest
of drawers, while the other hand still remained upon the shoulder of the-
operator. Immediately the word" Cold, cold," escaped from the lips of the
patient, and the operator turned her head in surprise in order to discover the
cause. I immediately removed my hand from the watch, and the mesmeric-
operations were resumed. Feeling curious to know whether the exclamation
of the patient had been accidental, or whether it had any connection with
the contact of my hand with the gold watch, I waited for a while and then
again laid my hand upon the watch, with the same result; again the patient
uttered the exclamation, "Cold, cold."
Not feeling sure whether the word in the written account was coUl
or gold, we wrote to inquire. In reply, our informant wrote:-
I was certainly under the impression at the time that the exclamation
which escaped from the lips of the patient was "Cold, cold." There is,
however, so little difference in sound between cold and gold, that should it
appear that patients under similar circumstances can detect metals, I could
not be certain that the utterance of the patient in question had not been
"Gold," though, at the time, I believed it to have been "Cold."
During the operation she was so situated as to be sheltered from the
possibility of draughts, and the instantaneous utterance of the exclamation
upon my touching the watch led me, without the slightest hesitation, to
regard the two phenomena as caUl!e and effect. The surprise of the
mesmeriser, who, on hearing the exclamation, turned quickly round, as if to-
discover the cause, was another indication that the phenomenon was unusual.
Though feeling myself convinced as to the connection between my touching
the watch and the exclamation of the patient, I wished to place it beyond
doubt; accordingly, some little time after the mesmeriser had resumed her
operations, I purposely placed my hand a second time upon the watch, which
was followed by the same instantaneous exclamation on the part of the patient.
It appears to me most improbable, if not impossible, that the coincidence
should have been an accidental one.
The patient is no longer living. We asked our informant to·
Digitized by Google
.y,l889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 75·
obtain, if possible, an account of the experience from the mes-
meriser. She wrote on March 23rd, 1889:-
In compliance with the request contained in your former letter, on learning
the address of my friend I wrote to inquire whether she had any remem-
brance of our joint mesmeric experience in connection with our departed
friend-the Mrs. B. alluded to in the enclosed paper. In reply, she tells
me, what I had never before known, that she had acted as Mrs. B.'s
mesmeriser for several weeks before the· latter carne to be our guest in Lon-
don. She does not remember having mesmerised Mrs. B. in --- square,
where we then resided. Her visit to London, at that time, must have been
accidental; and she adds: .. I account for my memory of these subsequent
events being less vivid owing to the state of physical exhaustion in which
I was, consequent upon the long-continued mesmerising, followed by the
fatigue of nursing."
My own experience with regard to the watch appears to me to be the·
more remarkable as having come quite spontaneously, without my having
heard of any connection between gold and mesmeric phenomena.
My friend is not quite exact in stating that I had asked her to state what
she could remember of her mesmeric experience in connection with gold
in the case of Mrs. B., of which I had never heard, till the perusal of the
enclosed paper. What I asked her was, whether she had any remem-
brance of our joint experience in --- square, the particulars of which I
gave her.
The mesmeriser's account of previous experiments follows. It
will be seen that it is not clear that the possibility of suggestion was
completely excluded.
You have asked me to state what I can remember of my mesmeric experi-
ence in connection with gold in the case of our dear cousin, Mrs. B.
Perhaps you may remember that she came to Nottingham to visit MiBB
N., who had been told of Mrs. B.'s desire to try the curative power
of mesmerism on her complaint. In order to test how far she W8B recep~ive
of the mesmeric influence, her doctor-himself a practised mesmerist---the
day after her arrival, succeeded without difficulty in putting her into the
mesmeric sleep. He then formed a chain (i.e., taking each other's hands) of.
I think, three persons, on each side of the patient, of whom I was one, and
placing the hand of the one next to her, at each side. into hers. He then
put a sovereign into the hand of the last person of the chain on one side.
and Mrs. B.'s brow immediately contracted as if she was much troubled, her
hand also showing uneasiness and trying to free itself from the hand of the
person with whom she was in contact. The sovereign was then changed to
the hand of the person at the end of the chain on the other side: and pre-
cisely the same result took place. No one spoke. and the footfall of the doctor
could not be heard as he changed the place of the gold.
The latter was then placed on the carpet under each foot in succession;
just where the shoe rises leaving a little space between the toe and the floor.
At once, each foot in succession, and up to the knees twitched, and the fore-
head again expressed trouble as before. When the points of the teeth of a.
Digitized by Google
76 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Resea,·ch. [&lay,1889.
dressing comb also were held at a little distance from her closely shut eyelids,
she turned her head from side to side to try to get rid of the effect it pro-
duced, the annoyance ceasing as soon as the comb was withdrawn.
As I was to be our dear cousin's mesmerist during some weeks, my own
power to undertake the charge of her case in this respect had also to be tested.
In order to ascertain this, I mesmerised my friend Mra. T--'s faithful
maid, and with entire success; and when she was in the mesmeric sleep,
and her eyes closely shut, I took my watch and held it about a quarter of
a yard above her hand which was lying fiat on the bed. To my surprise
her hand gradually began to rise from the wrist, as if attracted by the
gold, and remained with the fingers pointing upwards to the watch, the
arm still lying flat on the bed. On the watch being withdrawn, the hand
again slowly fell. I asked her afterwards why she had raised her hand.
She replied-not knowing what I had done-that she did not know she had
done it, but she felt as if I had laid something very cold on her hand, and
asked what it was.
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE PROBABLY CONTINUOUS ACTIVITY OF WHAT IS KNOWN
AS OUR SECONDARY CONSCIOUSNESS.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-In connection with the phenomena observed during the somnambulic
or hypnotic "state," as it is termed, whether spontaneously arising, or self-
induced, or brought about by any alien influence, I would suggest; that it
may not really be a "supervening" or special "state," or "condition" at
all, but a "con8tant" one, always existing though ordinarily unmanifesting,
and that its seemingly peculiar supersensuous powers of perception, and
eapacities of acquiring knowledge otherwise than through ordinary sensory
channels, are constantly in action, though veiled from observation by the
influence of the ordinary (normal or primary) consciousness. _
When the results of such action become appreciable to observation it is
<>wing to the withdrawal or suspension of such " occlusion" by a temporary
inhibition of the activity of the ordinary sensory functions, rather than
from the manifestation of any new or unusual capacities or functions set up,
or any abnormal state induced. In fact, in a manner resembling that by
which a louder sound renders inaudible a weaker one, or the action of a stronger
light renders one of lesser brilliancy invisible during its prevalence, although
the weaker sound and more feeble light are still existent and manifesting
though unperceived.
Many facts in the papers recently read before the Society for Psychical
Research, one" On the Connection of Hypnotism with Spiritualism" (given
in the Proceedings, Part XIII.), and a later one by Mr. Barkworth on ali
analogy between some of the phenomena of hypnotism and those of
ordinary life (or a similar title), will, upon careful examination, be, I think,
Digitized by Google
May, 1889.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. 77
found to support this theory. Also the fact of the existence of a continuous
ana independent memory in the hypnotic consciousness, and the working of
obscure and complicated problems, and the s,?lution of difficult questions
known to have taken place during sleep, would seem to prove a perpetual
mental activity under higher conditions, in what, for want of a better term~
is named the Secondary Consciousness. A constant activity of the faculties
of reasoning and "willing to reason, in a certain direction," would seem
to exist both. wh.ile the primary (8611801'Y) COfIBci0Ulmfl88 is active and while it
is dormant, the effects of such action being more manifest when sensory
susceptibility to external stimuli is in abeyance.
Hence, instead of a new and peculiar " state " being developed or induced,
we have merely a. usual and constant normal condition of mentality unveiled
and disclosed to our observation, by a suspension or temporary inhibition
of ordinary functional manifestation.
H. VENMAN.
Po the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Sm,-It seems to me that the interesting problem which Mr. Venman's
letter suggests will be easier of discussion if we try first to get some clearer
notion of what is meant by the continuous activity of any known conscious-
ness whatever. If we take the word in its strict sense, then I think that we
cannot apply it to any form or phase of consciousness which manifests itself
through, or is conditioned by, any activity of the human brain. But if by
continuous we mean" ready at all times to respond if the ap'propriate stimu-
lus be supplied," then I agree with Mr. Venman that the •secondary self"
may be as continuous as the primary.
In what does the continuity of my waking or primary self consist' Not
in an unbroken chain of memories, but in the fact that when the appropriate
stimulus-of light or of nervous nutrition-is supplied, my waking self resumes
possession of the temporarily broken chain.
And the case with, say, my hypnotic or somnambulic personality is pre-
cisely similar. The hypnotic personality is sUInmoned by the appropriate
stimulus; it is exhausted after a time, for the somnambulic state cannot (as
it would seem) be indefinitely prolonged; and then when the appropriate
stimulus is re-applied it takes up the chain of hypnotic memory once more.
No doubt we have evidence of a certain activity of the hypnotic self in the
interim. It counts off the days, for instance, if it has been told to accomplish
some suggestion at a distant date; and it shares-to some extent at least--in
the experience and acquisitions of the working self during the interval be-
tween the hypnotisations. But this intermediate activity is not continuoUS'
in the sense in which the somnambulic access while it lasts is continuous.
If affords opportunity for the repose of that special combination of cerebral
processes-whatever it be--which differentiates the somnambulic from the
waking state. Going a. stage deeper still, we find the Dremon of Socrates
always ready to intervene when wanted, yet not intervening in a way so-
continuous as to exhaust any combination of cerebral processes on which
its manifestations may have depended.
In other words, it seems likely that any chain of memory, or phase of
personality, which manifests itself through the brain, must admit intervals
of at least partial repose, during which that special mode of cerebral functioning
may renew its power. Each of us, we may say, contains within himself the
potentiality of an unknown number of personalities, some at least of which
may be educated to become as readily recurrent as is his primary personality.
although no one of them can-any more than his pnmary personality-
be made to manifest itself in a. really continuous manner.
Digitized by Google
'78 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [May,! 8 R
But if we go-as I conceive that Mr. Venman means to go-beyond and
behind these terrene personalities to the hypothetical individuality-un-
affected by earthly birth or death-which we may regard as the basis of all
the forms of self-manifestation which earth exhibits,-then, of course, the
·question of continuity changes its aspect. If that individuality exist
independently of the brain, we know of no reason why it should need repose.
We may more plausibly appeal to other analogies, and consider our "soul"
as a definite and continuous energy, which is always accomplishing an equiva-
lent amount of work, but in varying ways; and which, consequently, may
then fiow most freely into higher and unseen activities when the adits of earthly
sensation are closed, and the agitations of terrene personalities calmed into
dreamless sleep.
F. W. H. MYERS.
P.S.-The above remarks may perhaps serve as a partial answer to Mr.
Barkworth's letter printed below, but received too late for notice in this
number of the Journal. "Changes in Personality" form, I believe, one of
the subjects on the programme of the Oongre8 de P8ychologie PhY8iologique to
be held in Paris, August 5th-10th; and, with Mr. Barkworth's permission, I
should prefer to postpone further discussion till after that date, in the hope
that we may then have the subject before us in a completer form.
DUPLEX VERSUS MULTIPLEX PERSONALITY.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Sm,-I should not again venture to ask for space to discuss this subject,
but for two considerations,-first, its importance, which is second to none in
the whole range of Psychical Research, and secondly, the desirableness of
arriving at some definite point of issue, or of agreement, while the subject is
fresh in the minds of your readers.
Let me begin by defining what I understand by "personality." It is not
a mood or state, nor does it change with any number of moods or states,
however different from one another. A man's whole appearance, character,
conduct and capacity may be radically altered without any pretence for
claiming that his personality is changed. Such an alteration is only too
frequent when, for instance, a man becomes a confirmed drunkard, or even
a confirmed gambler, or opium-eater. Nor can a mere dislocation or hiatus
in the chain of memory such as sometimes occurs after a fall on the head or an
attack of brain fever, justify us in asserting that we are dealing with a dif-
ferent psychical entity from the one we knew before. Still less can such
an assertion be made of the vagaries of a hypnotised subject under sugges-
tion, and during trance, where it is evident that he is but an instrument
played upon by the will of another. In formulating such a stupendous
-dogma as is involved in the negation of uniform personality, we must rest
upon no uncertain ground which a new way of regarding the facts may cut
from under us. Where, then, is this certain ground to be found 1 I reply.
(Jnly in cases where the sub-conscious personality can be observed in opera-
tion without any break in tho normal procedure of the active consciousness.
Such cases incontrovertibly have been observed, in automatic writing, in the
execution of post-hypnotic suggestions, in the exhibition of sub-conscious
thought-transferences such as those between Mr. and Mrs. Newnham, in the
quasi-automatic actions of which I gave instances at the January meeting. &c.
In these instances the passive consciousness can be absolutely seen in operation
without either the knowledge or control of its active partner, and while the
latter is, with unabated power, engaged on other affairs.
Mr. Myers' letter has left the question just where it was before. No
Digitized by Google
1\Iay, 1889.] JoU'l"nal of Society for Psychical Research. 79
evidence whatever has been produced in support of multiplex personality,
though he Aye that such evidence is growing daily beyond his power to
record. I do not for a moment presume to contradict him ul?on evidence
which I have not seen, but I wilf press the question, if the eVidence is too
bountiful for record as a whole, is that any reason why he should not let us
hear at least some of it? Our Proceeding8 are rich in the records of experi-
ments both at home and abroad. Is there any reason why those which make
for multiplex personality should not be put before us ?
I do not, however, overlook the fact that Mr. Myers' letter indicates more
or less where the evidence he relies on may be found, and these indications
are as follows :-
1. The" three states" of the Salpetriere school
2. The Brighton experiments of Mr. Gurney.
3. The Revue PhiloBOphique.
I am unable to understand how Mr. Myers can regard the three stated as
evidence of multiplex personality. They are clearly set forth in Binet and
Fare's work on Animal MagnetiBm, where they are classed as Somnambulic,
Lethargic, and Cataleptic. The differences between them seem to be mainly
of a physical character, and though the mental condition of the patient may
to some extent vary also, it does so only functionally, and not essentially,
just as the mental state of a man may differ when inBBne from what it was
before. Moreover, the classification of the three states is, I believe, rejected
by Liabeault and the Nancy school.
The Brighton experiments are, I confess, much harder to deal with. H an
alternating memory were to be accepted as proof of an alternating personality,
they would indeed be conclusive. But in my former letter I gave reasons
why I think they should not be so accepted. Beyond this, I need only quote
Mr. Myers himself on these sa.me experiments (Proceeding8, Part XIII., p.
386), where he speaks of "mere 8tag_which cannot be called per8011alitiea--
through which Mr. Gurney's hypnotic subjects could be led backwards and
forwards at pleasure." The italics are Mr. Myers'. If, therefore, he now
relies on these experiments to prove multiplex personality, it is certain that
he must have changed his opinion.
Mr. Myers' third reference is to the Revue Philo80phique, and here I am
at the disadvantage of not being able to follow him. I have inquired at the
office, but was not surprised to hear that all the numbers he refers to were
engaged. In this, however, I am no worse off than other members. Is it
then desirable that we should be dependent upon the chance numbers of a
foreign periodical for information on a subject which, as much as any that
can be named, lies at the root of our investigations? Until the nature of the
human Ego is as far as possible explored and decided, nothing is done; that is
to say, nothing can be reliably concluded. Until then, we are made the sport
of words, such as psychical and physical, living and non-living, mental and
subjective, of which we know only the phenomena they stand for, and nothing
of the ultimate truths they represent.
Let me, then, make this appeal to Mr. Myers. Let him embody the more
salient portions of the evidence for multiplex personality, on which he relies,
in a paper to be read or published. We shall then be able to form some idea
of it, which at present we cannot.
I cannot follow Mr. Myers in his distinction between personality and
individuality, nor in his use of metaphor--alwaye, I fancy, rather a hazardous
mode of dealing with questions of which the facts are not yet ascertained,
because we are apt to mistake the completion of the metaphor for the demon-
stration of the fact. Nor am I, at present, so much concerned with the
inferences derivable from his theory, 88 with the theory itself. On the
former I will only say, however, that from his point of view the objection
he puts into the mouth of the materialistic objector appears to me to be at
present unanswerable.
THOMAS BARKWORTB.
Digitized by Google
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May,I88!!.
SUPPL.r..MENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
*ATKINSON (Henry Geo~e, F.G.S., and Harriet MARTINEAU) Letters
on the Laws of Man s Nature and Development - London, 1851
'*BALLOU (Adin) An Exposition of Views respecting the Modem Spirit
Manifestations. Reprinted from the Second American Edition
Liverpool, 1853
*BERTOLACCI (William Robert) Christian Spiritualism - London, 1864-
*BuCHANAN (Joseph R., M.D.) Manual of Psychometry: the Dawn of
a New Civilisation (second edition) - - - B08ton, U.S.A., 1885
*COLEIIUN (Benjamin) The Rise and Progress of SpirituaIism in England
London, 1871
*COUES (S. F., M.D.) PoBBibilities of Organism - WlJ8hington, D.O., 1878
*Cox (Edward W., S.L.) Heredity and Hybridism: a Suggestion
London, 1875
tDICKENS (Charles) The Mystery of Edwin Drood (complete). Includ-
ing " Part Second, through a Medium" - Brattleborough, U.S.A. 1873
*HARDINGE (Emma) Modem American Spiritualism - New York, 1870
*HOJIIE (D. D.) Lights and Shadows of SpirituaIism -' London, 1877
*KARDEC (Allan) The Spirits' Book. From the French, by Anna Black-
well - - - - - - - - London, 1875
*--Heaven and Hell. From the French, by Anna Blackwell
London, 1878
*LY'rrELTON (Hon. and Rev. W. H.) Scripture Revelations of the Life
of Man after Death - - - - - - London, 1876
*MARY JANE; or, SpirituaIism Chemically Explained with Spirit Draw-
ings - - - - - - - - - London, 1863
PROCEEDINGS of the American Society for Psychical Research. Vol.
I., No. 4- - - - - - - Boston, U.S.A., March, 188!}
*Psycmc FACTS. Edited by W. H. Harrison London, 1880
*PuTNAM (Allen) Agassiz and Spiritualism - - Boston, U.S.A., N.D
~SCOTT (Walter) The Existence of Evil Spirits Proved London, 1843
*SpmITUALISM, Report of the Committee of the London Dialectical
Society on - London, 1871
*STEPHEN (George Milner) and his Marvellous Cures - Sydney, N.D.
*TuTTLE (Hudson) Arcana of Spiritualism - - - Boston, U.S.A., 1871
*-- (and J. M. PEEBLES) The Year-Book of Spiritualism for 1871
B08ton, U.S.A., 1871
LACBOIX (Henry) Mes Experiences avec les Esprits Paris, 188!}
DEDEKIND (Gustav E. W.) Dokimion: oder Praktischer Versuch fiber
ein reales Verhii.ltnitz dar Geister der Verstorbenen zu den hinter-
bIiebenden Ihrigen Hanover, 1797
Du PREL (Dr. Carl) Das Zweite Gesicht Breslau, N.D.
FRIEDRICH (Georg) Die Entstehung des Wahnsinnes in der Phantasie
vom Standpunkte der Psychologie aus betrachtet, &c., &c.
Munich, 1887
*Presented by Alfred Russel Wallace. +Presented by the Rev. O. L. Dodgson.
:::Presented by the Rev. Oanon Wood.
Digitized by Google
