{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v8_n4_apr_2012.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V8 N4 Apr 2012","mylang":"de"}
110
F
Amalgamation of Societies
——§——
111 - W. T. Stead: Chief of the Old Brigade - Edith K. Harper
115 - Julia’s Bureau: Points of interest noted by Paul Gaunt
121 - The W. T. Stead Bureau to Close – Light
123 - Centre for the History of Psychological Disciplines - Call for Papers
124 - The Passing of Miss F. R. Scatcherd – The Two Worlds
126 - The Cremation of Miss Scatcherd – Horace Leaf F.R.C.S.
128 - Remarkable Phenomena in Nottingham – Book Review by Leslie Price
129 - Publication of Spirit Teachings – A.W. Trethewy
132 - The Physical Phenomena of the Past – Leslie Curnow, B.A.
138 - Decease of M. Tissot - Light
139 - Photograph References
140 - Some books we have reviewed
141 - How to obtain this Journal by email
============================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 8, No 4: April 2012
111
W. T. STEAD:
CHIEF OF THE OLD BRIGADE
By EDITH K. HARPER
Psychic Science:—1
“The True Mission of Spiritualism is to make
men spiritual.”—W. T. Stead.
Spiritualism’s long Roll of Honour
contains no name more admirable than that of
W. T. Stead—a pioneer, if ever there were
one. At the height of his public career, his
international fame as the Prince of journalists,
he boldly announced his conviction of the
essential truth of Spiritualism. I use the plain
term “Spiritualism” because he used it. He
was never ashamed to do so, never beat about
the bush. But he did not substitute
Spiritualism for Christianity, for he held it as
part and parcel of Christianity. His religion,
his Universal Church, was an ideal “Great as
the Love of God, wide as the needs of Man,” and included that inborn longing of the
human soul to realise that physical death cannot divide those who love. Or, as Penn the
Quaker said, “Those who love beyond the grave cannot be separated by it.”
So Mr. Stead’s first public confession of faith took the form of an address given at
the invitation of the London Spiritualist Alliance, at their old rooms, Duke Street,
Adelphi. It was on the 14th of March, 1893,2
and the occasion was specially
memorable, because he not only made his first speech on Spiritualism—including an
account of his own personal experiments in automatic-writing, so-called, but because he
then made known his intention of founding, some day, “Julia’s Bureau” of Inter-
communication.3
A full report of Mr. Stead’s speech, and of other speeches of various
members of that crowded and enthusiastic audience are, I believe, still preserved in the
archives of “Light.”
1
Quarterly Transactions BCPS: Psychic Science, Vol. VI.—No. 1. April 1927 pages 30-34.
2
See also: Richard Boddington, “Stead’s First Appearance”:—“In 1898 was held the first really big
International Conference in London, the old St. James's Hall and the Portman Rooms being utilised. It
was here that W. T. Stead first identified himself publicly with our movement. Psypioneer 4, No.1:—The
days when it was difficult – A pioneer looks back, pages 8.10:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
3
Julia’s Bureau: An Attempt to Bridge the Grave, taken from The Review of Reviews, vol. XXXIX, May,
1909, p. 433:—http://www.attackingthedevil.co.uk/reviews/bureau.php
112
When I wrote “Stead, the Man,” in 1913,4
Mr.
E. W. Wallis, then editor of “Light,” with his usual
courtesy and kindness, allowed me to make full
use of that material, so, as I there quoted Mr.
Stead’s speech almost in full, I need not repeat
more here, excepting to emphasise his then
declared intention of founding “Julia’s Bureau.”
His words were these:—
“I ask you to consider it. Can anything be
done?” Can some centre be established, whether it
be a College of mediums, or a Bureau of
Communication, or whatever you like to call it, by
which any person who has lost a friend, and who
wishes to receive communications from that
friend, may be able to send and receive a message
as to the well-being or ill-being as the case may
be, and as to the whereabouts of that friend on the
other side? Julia says that it can be done, and
ought to be done, and she wants me to try and get it done. . . .”
“I speak as a tyro, but I intend to put this thing through. I do not intend to dawdle
round it.”
That was nearly thirty-four years ago. Certainly “dawdling” was the last thing of
which Mr. Stead could be accused, but “we are in the lap of the gods,” and it was some
sixteen years later before Julia’s desire was realised.
On the evening of April 24th, 1909, a small group of enthusiasts dined together at
the First Avenue Hotel, High Holborn, by the invitation of W. T. Stead, foremost
among pioneers in any field where courage and self-sacrifice were and are their own
(and often their only) reward.
That evening was a gala event; the “Coronat Opus” of his many long years of
psychical investigation. It was the inauguration of that gallant and quixotic enterprise,
known to fame as “Julia’s Bureau.”
We were thirteen at table. The guests included several well-known sensitives, and
there were also representatives of interrelated fields of thought, including the veteran
Theosophist, Mr. A. P. Sinnett, and our Hon. Treasurer, Mr. E. R. Serocold Skeels. My
mother and I were also among the number. Nearly eighteen years ago!—but the
memory of that happy group of kindred souls is ever vivid in my mind, as also is the
séance which followed it at Mowbray House, formerly the office of the “Review of
Reviews,” to which we all repaired later in the evening, for the benediction of the
Invisible.
4
Stead the Man, Personal Reminiscences. First edition appears to be 1914 by William Rider, with an
Introduction by Major-General Sir Alfred E.Turner. You can read on line, or download the 1918 reprint.
Published by William Rider & Son, Ltd:—http://archive.org/details/steadmanpersonal00harprich
113
Sixteen years earlier Mr. Stead had thrown a bombshell, as it were, into the
journalistic world by the publication of “Borderland,” a quarterly review dedicated to
every form of psychical investigation, and, as he phrased it, to “seeking the scientific
verification of the life and immortality which were brought to light nineteen hundred
years ago.”
One of the chief features of that unique Quarterly was the first appearance of
“Letters from Julia,” those much-discussed communications in “Automatic Writing”
given to Mr. Stead through his own hand, and of which the reception had turned him
from a sceptic (in such matters) into a firm believer. Julia’s first acquaintance with Mr.
Stead is well known, but for the benefit of the imperfectly informed, let me first recall
that Miss Julia A. Ames, of Boston, was an American woman journalist, who wrote
much on Temperance and Social Reform, and was a close friend of Lady Henry
Somerset and Miss Frances Willard. Miss Lilian Whiting has testified elsewhere to Julia
Ames’ noble, enlightened personality and character.5
She had some correspondence
with W. T. Stead, but otherwise their acquaintance was of the slightest; she only saw
him twice; she was not a Spiritualist, and they had never discussed the subject. But, it
was she who was destined to alter his whole outlook by giving him proofs of human
survival, that led ultimately to his throwing down the gauntlet in the face of a
materialistic world, and risking all that might come of it.
He said once, when asked to state what was the most important moment in his life:
“The most important moment in my life was when Julia first wrote with my hand!” and
in reply to a kindly warning by an eminent Statesman, hinting at probable loss of
prestige, and the like, Mr. Stead retorted: “That is nothing! I have my son Willie’s
messages telling me he is alive and well in the Beyond.”
But even “Borderland” was not the first milestone in Mr. Stead’s Psychic Quest.
Two years earlier, in 1891, he had compiled and issued as a special Christmas number
of the “Review of Reviews,” a collection of Real Ghost Stories, as a practical attempt to
“rationalize the consideration of the science of ghosts.” It was in this connection that he
uttered an imperative warning that such studies were not for everyone, certainly not for
the very nervous or easily excitable, and that “as the latent possibilities of our complex
personality are so imperfectly understood, all experimenting in Hypnotism,
Spiritualism, etc., excepting in the most careful and reverent spirit by the most level-
headed persons, had much better be avoided.” And in deference to his Roman Catholic
friends, he included a special caution to “those who expose themselves to the horrible
consequences of Possession.”
Mr. Stead sometimes said he was born without the “bump of veneration,” but this
was only half true, for his Puritan ancestry and deeply religious training and outlook
were with him in even his most adventurous voyages.
In 1897 he published the “Letters from Julia” in volume form, entitled “After
Death,” remarking in his Preface: “No one who knows anything of the prejudice that
exists on the subject will deny that I have no personal interest to serve in taking up the
5
BCPS reference: Stead; the Man, by Edith K. Harper. Chapter IV. “Who is Julia.” Read on line Chapter
IV, page 35:—http://archive.org/details/steadmanpersonal00harprich
114
exceedingly unpopular and much ridiculed position of a believer in the reality of such
communications.”
After that, the Editorial Offices of the “Review of Reviews,” both in Norfolk Street
and later in Kingsway, was, not unnaturally, besieged by a constant stream of soi-disant
mediums, real or imaginary, good, bad, or indifferent. Anyone claiming the gift was
sure of a hearing, and equally sure of financial assistance if needed. The “Knight Errant
of Womanhood” became the Medium’s Friend.
I think it was the late Lord Milner who once affectionately characterised, W. T.
Stead, his former Editorial Chief, as a fine combination of “Don Quixote, Phineas T.
Barnum, and the Apostle Paul.” Never was this threefold aspect seen in more attractive
effect than when psychic matters were in question. Between the appearance of “Real
Ghost Stories,” in 1891 (and “More Ghost Stories” the following year), and the
establishment of “Julia’s Bureau” in 1909, much water flowed under the Thames
bridges. “Borderland” had run a meteoric course for three or four years,6
then ceased to
exist. In December, 1907, Mr. Stead received a definite “signpost,” which meant for
him that he was to give everything else second place to the work of reiterating his own
personal testimony that There is no Death. This signpost came through the death of his
eldest son, and it has all been told and retold. His own words, spoken by him at a public
meeting, were these:—
“I had always said I would never make my final pronouncement upon Spiritualism
until someone near and dear in my own family passed into the great beyond, then I
should know whether Spiritualism stood the test of a great bereavement, bringing life
and immortality to light. And I am here to-night to tell you that the reality of my son’s
continued existence, and of his tender care for me, have annulled the bitterness of
death.”
So the Bureau was launched. Its whole cost was borne by Mr. Stead. It was he who
paid the mediums, and the clerical staff, and the rent, as well as the thousand-and-one
incidental expenses incurred in such an undertaking. As the correspondence was world-
wide, postal expenses alone were enormous. A library of Psychical literature called
“The Borderland Library,” was run in connection with the Bureau, but it was not an
integral part. The annual subscription to the library was one guinea. This, however, did
not involve the use of “Julia’s Bureau.” The latter was entirely gratis, and it did not
include the Library. How Julia dowered Mr. Stead with a thousand pounds for her
Bureau is another story, also well known.
For three years, from 1909 until 1912, the work went on unceasingly. At the end of
the first twelve months, when we surveyed results, Mr. Stead felt his faith had been
amply justified, and when I placed before him some of the sheaves of letters in which
grateful hearts had allowed themselves to overflow, he exclaimed: “Whatever happens,
nothing can take this golden year from our lives! But we must go ahead!”
“Whatever happens!” . . . That was soon to happen which would stop the earthly
expression of all his self-sacrificing zeal, and leave his loyal helpers leaderless. In
6
First issue July 1893 cost of 1/6d. Final issue October 1897 (IV. No.4)’, this was intended as a
temporary suspension, but the publication never returned.
115
March, 1909,7
he received an invitation to speak at New York on Men and Religion’s
Forward Movements, and he half reluctantly accepted, because, as he said: “It will give
me an opportunity to speak of Julia’s Bureau in her own land.”
It seemed to him another call, and he meant to extend his visit in the States, in order
to give a series of lectures on this, the subject nearest his heart. A few months before, in
19088
—at a sitting of Julia’s Circle—old “Grey Feather” called out in a voice of
thunder: “Chief Steady, you crossee Big Pond one time more before you shuttee eye.”
“One time more!” A curious prophecy, yet fulfilled to the letter, alas! All the world
knows that! The “Titanic” struck an iceberg late on the night of April 14th, and sank in
mid-ocean in the early hours of Monday, April 15th, 1909.9
Upwards of 1,600 persons
sank with her, among them being W. T. Stead.
May the Lord bless and keep him.
——§——
JULIA’S BUREAU
Points of interest noted by Paul Gaunt:10
Edith K. Harper states it was 1893 when “he then
made known his intention of founding, some day,
“Julia’s Bureau” of Inter-communication.”
In 1894, Julia wrote:11
“I want to ask you if you can help me at
all in a matter in which I am much interested.
I have long wanted to establish a place where
those who have passed over could
communicate with the loved ones left behind.
At present the world is full of spirits longing
to speak to those from whom they have been
parted, just as I longed to speak to you, but
without finding a hand to enable them to
write. It is a strange spectacle. On your side,
souls full of anguish for bereavement; on this
side, souls full of sadness because they
7
This should presumably read as 1912!
8
Should read 1911!
9
Should read 1912
10
The primary information is taken from My Father, by Estelle W. Stead, Published by Thomas Nelson
and Sons, Ltd. London, Edinburgh, and New York, 1913
11
Pages 316-318
116
cannot communicate with those whom they love. What can be done to bring
these sombre, sorrow-laden persons together? To do so requires something
which we cannot supply. You must help. But how? It is not impossible. And
when it is done, death will have lost its sting and the grave its victory. The
Apostle thought this was done. But the grave has not been so easily
defeated, and death keeps its sting. Who can console us for the loss of our
beloved? Only those who can show us that they are not lost, but are with us
more than ever. Do you not think I have been much more with my friend
since I put off my flesh than I used to be? Why, I dwell with her in a way
that before was quite impossible. I was never more with her than have been
since I came to this side. But she would not have known it, nor would you
heard from me at all, but for the accident of your meeting her!
“What is wanted is a bureau of communication between the two sides.
Could you not establish some such sort of office with one or more trust-
worthy mediums? If only it were to enable the sorrowing on earth to know,
if only for once, that their so-called dead live nearer there than ever before,
it would help to dry many a tear and soothe many a sorrow. I think you
could count upon the eager co-operation of all on this side.
“We on this side are full of joy at the hope of this coming to pass.
Imagine how grieved we must be to see so many whom we love, sorrowing
without hope, when those for whom they sorrow are trying in vain by every
means to make them conscious of their presence. And many also are racked
with agony, imagining that their loved ones are lost in hell, when in reality
they have been found in the all-embracing arms of the love of God. It is the
most important thing there is to do. For it brings with it the trump of the
Archangel, when those that were in their graves shall awake and walk forth
once more among men.
“I was at first astonished to learn how much importance the spirits attach
to the communications which they are allowed to have with those on earth. I
can, of course, easily understand, because I feel it thyself—the craving there
is to speak to those whom you loved, and whom you love; but it is much
more than this. What they tell me on all sides, and especially my dear
guides, is that the time is come when there is to be a great spiritual
awakening among the nations, and that the agency which is to bring this
about is the sudden and conclusive demonstration, in every, individual case
which seeks for it, of the reality of the spirit, of the permanence of the soul,
and the immanent of the Divine.”
It would be another 15 years before the Bureau would open its doors:
As noted, the Bureau was originally conceived through Stead’s automatic scripts
from the spirit of Julia A. Ames. Miss Ames was around thirty years old, an
American journalist who worked for the Union Signal Boston, and a highly religious
Methodist. Stead first met Julia at his office of the Review of Reviews, at Mowbray
House in 1890. A subsequent visit saw her meeting Stead again, this time at his home
Cambridge House where she met some of his family. They had tea in the garden under
117
an old oak tree12
that was situated at the end of the lawn. These two occasions were the
only times the pair had met for shortly after her return to America, Julia died of
pneumonia in Boston.
During the autumn of 1908, Julia wrote, through Stead’s hand, stating that the
necessary finances would be forthcoming. Stead had written an article in early
December of this year entitled: “How I know the Dead Return,” in which he gave an
account of his own experiences, and reasons for his belief. This was published in the
Fortnightly Review, New York American, and La Revue, in Australia and in India.
The publication of this article resulted in Stead being offered the position of
“Special Correspondent”. He accepted the post on condition that he would receive
£1,000 a year. On January 19th 1909 the position was confirmed by New York
American.
Estelle states:—13
So he founded Julia’s Bureau—and founded it for one purpose, and one
purpose only—to enable those who had lost their dead, who were sorrowing
over friends and relatives, to get into touch with them again; to minister to
the aching heart, not to satisfy the inquisitive brain.
The Bureau was formally opened on April 24th 1909, with Mowbray House14
as its
London office, and Cambridge House, Wimbledon as its “Inner Sanctuary”15
12
This final meeting place at Stead’s home was to later become the inner sanctuary of “Julia’s Bureau,
and the old oak tree would become known as “Julia’s Oak”.
13
My Father page 320.
14
Mowbray House, Norfolk Street, London, situated on the Thames Embankment was Stead’s office that
he took for his work in 1890 - The Review of Reviews.
15
Cambridge House, Wimbledon Park, London SW was the Stead family home.
118
The cost of maintaining the Bureau fell entirely on Stead. The £1,000 he was
earning as Special Correspondent to the New York American went towards the
running of the Bureau, but this did not cover Stead’s expenditure. Each person
sitting with a medium worked out at two guineas (£2. 2s. 0d) over and above the
outlay of the offices, etc; it was nearer £2,000 during the first year.
Julia absolutely forbade any charge being made to the sitter and stated:—16
“we must not charge applicants any fee for the services of the Bureau,
but that after their application had been dealt with those who had benefited
by the Bureau were allowed, if they so please, of their own free will, to
contribute either two guineas to defray the cost of another case or any
multiple of two guineas as a thank-offering to her Bureau”
How then, was the Bureau to be financed? A minimum of three sittings a day would
as stated involve an outlay heading towards £2,000 a year, and there were often
more.
Four months after the opening17
of the Bureau, Stead wrote:—18
“I confess that this reliance for the financing of the Bureau upon
gratitude for services rendered seems to most persons on the earth plane
somewhat unbusinesslike. So far the results have hardly justified the
splendid confidence of Julia. But I am going on relying upon her assurance
that the necessary funds will not fail to be provided when they are needed.”
Estelle Stead commented:—19
However, extra funds were not forthcoming, and after the first year
Mowbray House had to be given up, and the whole of the work was carried
on from Cambridge House.20
Later on it was found impossible to give more than one sitting to each
applicant, though, if this one sitting failed of results, a second was arranged
with another medium.
16
My Father Page 342-343.
17
During this time 150 sittings were given by the Bureau.
18
My Father Page 343.
19
My Father Page 343.
20
March 1910, Mr. Stead’s lease of Mowbray House expired, the Bureau ceased to work from there, and
the archives were moved to Cambridge House, from which the correspondence was then carried on.
119
I should explain here of what a sitting consisted. The sitter was required to fill in a
number of forms for various reasons that we do not have the space to go into. If the
sitter was accepted,21
they would receive three separate sittings with different
mediums,22
the first being at the bureau with a staff medium. The two subsequent
sittings would take place away from the bureau, possibly at the medium’s premises.
At each of the three sittings, a stenographer who recorded everything said
accompanied the sitter. The reports were then sent to the sitters. The recipients were
requested to give detailed feedback to the bureau; for example, could the
information given be explained by telepathy? Could the information have been
received by other means? Did the sitter think that they were brought into
communication with a loved one etc? The bureau would then compare these reports
with the three sittings received. Each was carefully filed in the archives, and some
of the results were published.
Each morning the staff would attend a morning circle, a chair always placed at the
head of the table for Julia; after all it was her Bureau [note the photograph on page
117]. Each staff member in turn took the service, with Julia generally selecting the
hymn. When Mowbray House closed, Julia’s Circle, as it was always called,
continued, but only once a week on a Wednesday evening at Cambridge House. It
was conducted in the same manner as the morning circles at Mowbray House. These
continued until William Stead’s death. He was referred to as the “Chief”, and after
his death the circles continued intermittently during the summer, with two places
being reserved for Julia and the Chief.
Stead attended his last Julia’s Circle on April 3rd 1912, at which he presided
choosing for the Bible Reading:—23
“… the seventeenth chapter of St. John, in which Christ, feeling the hour
draw nigh when He must leave the World, prays God to glorify Him, to
preserve His apostles, and to glorify them, and all other believers with Him
in Heaven.”
“The hymn, too, told of parting and farewell, for Julia expressed the wish
it should be Harriet Auber’s “Our Blest Redeemer,” and wrote the following
message:—
“April 3rd, 1912.24
It is a solemn thought that after to-night my beloved
Circle may not meet in its entirety for some time. But hold the meeting
weekly, in all faith and confidence, and in good time the joy of re-union will
more than atone for the pain of separation. Much that is of great importance
21
To minimise any risks e.g., mischievous spirits or sitters with dubious motives, Julia undertook the
personal direction of the Bureau, making the rules and conditions for all.
22
Those who were unable to attend the London office were asked to send in three articles to be
psychometrised by each medium. Those using the postal system would, so far as possible, receive the
same treatment and process as an attending sitter.
23
My Father Pages 371-372.
24
Given through Miss Harper’s hand.
120
will take place before then. I particularly wish dear William to preside at the
service to-night. Sing ‘Our Blest Redeemer.’ God’s blessing on you all, and
a good journey to my beloved comrade.”
“JULIA A. AMES.”
Over 600 people25
received help and consolation during the three years of the Bureau’s
activity. The Bureau employed well-known mediums e.g., Alfred Vout Peters,26
J. J.
Vango,27
and Robert King.28
Etta Wreidt on her visit to London, at the invitation of
Stead, held séances at Julia’s Bureau in 1911. After Stead’s fateful last voyage on the
Titanic in April 1912, he had intended to bring Wreidt back to England on his return
trip. At this time she was waiting for Stead in New York, the Titanic’s destination.
At some time after Stead’s death in 1912, Julia’s Bureau closed. In 1914 Stead’s
daughter Estelle, founded The ‘W. T. Stead’ Borderland Library and Bureau. The
opening of the Bureau in 1914 was to give much support to the bereaved during the
First World War. In 1936, it closed it doors forever.
——§——
25
Encyclopedia of Occultism & Parapsychology (Gale Research Inc), puts the number of sittings around
1,300, during the three years with Stead’s running costs around £1,500 a year. Both different to Stead’s
daughter’s information in 1913. Estelle Stead noted on page 340: “In the first four months there were 150
cases (sittings) undertaken by the Bureau, …” I suspect the figure given (600) is yearly, rather than
during the three years.
26
Peters opened a campaign with Miss Stead in 1925 (the only two surviving members of Julia’s
Bureau). See Volume 4, No.2:—Alfred Vout Peters – Paul J. Gaunt, pages 29-38:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.2February08..pdf
27
His long career as a medium will be featured in a later issue.
28
According to the Encyclopedia of Occultism & Parapsychology (Gale Research Inc): Robert King was
the chief psychic of Julia’s Bureau from 1909 – 1913. If this is correct, the Bureau continued for at
least eight months after Stead’s death in April 1912.
Mr. Robert King was present each day from 10am until 1pm for consultation. Giving clairvoyance and
clairaudience, he had been introduced to Mr. Stead by Miss Scatcherd in the course of her own psychic
investigations, and this led to his engagement by Stead as a medium for the Bureau. In Mr. King’s
absence Mr. A. Vout Peters acted as “locum tenens.” See page 152, Stead the Man:—
http://archive.org/details/steadmanpersonal00harprich
121
THE W. T. STEAD BUREAU TO CLOSE
Light:—29
MISS ESTELLE W. STEAD has sent to the
members and workers of the W. T. Stead Library
and Bureau a circular letter announcing that the
Bureau is to be closed at the end of the present
session in April. This is news that will be received
with regret by a wide circle.
The Library, Miss Stead informs us, is to be
transferred to The Friendship Centre30
at 85
Lancaster Gate, London, and to be named the “W.
T. Stead Memorial Library.”
Miss Stead’s circular letter is in the following
terms:
“MY DEAR MEMBERS AND WORKERS,—I
have a sad piece of news to break to you, at least I hope you will feel it is sad, even as I
do. At the end of this Session I am closing the Bureau, for there is other work for me to
do. You ask, why? The Bureau is so well known, is doing a good work, etc., etc., and
perhaps some of you will say we shall miss it; I hope so.
“I will explain. In 1912 when my father passed on through the sinking of the
‘Titanic,’ he told me I had to close ‘Julia’s Bureau’ (the Bureau he had opened in 1909
at her request for communication between the two worlds), because the special work for
which it was opened had been achieved, but that when such a bureau was again needed
I should know, and the means would be furnished to open it. In 1914, soon after war
broke out and many were passing over, the need was great. I knew the time had come.
As promised, the means were provided, and I opened ‘The ‘W. T. Stead’ Borderland
Library and Bureau. The Bureau had a special work to do, and when that work was
done and my term of service in this direction was over, I should know. I thought it
would not be for very long and I had hopes of taking up my stage work again. But it
was not to be. The Bureau, specially opened for those who passed on through the war,
had further work to do. I have carried on the work happily, convinced that when the
time came to close I should be given direct instruction to do so.
“Ever since my mother’s passing in 1932 I have known that time was drawing near.
It filled me with sadness. I tried to persuade myself that I was wrong, for I know how
many love this place and have been helped through coming here, but there was really no
doubt in my mind, I knew it had to come and now I dare hesitate no longer.
29
Light, March 12, 1936 page 170.
30
Stephen Foster founded the Friendship Centre in 1929; it became the home of the Conan Doyle
Memorial Psychic Library and Museum. In early 1937, the Friendship Centre became known as—
“The Friendship Centre and the ‘W. T. Stead’ Memorial Library.” See Psypioneer:—5, No.5, this entire
issue is dedicated to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.5May09.pdf
122
“I have carried on the work for 22 years. All the time I have been conscious of the
guidance of my father and Julia, our Presidents in the spirit world. It has been a real joy
to me to carry on in conjunction with them the work they started. As I look back over
the years my heart is full of thankfulness for the many who through coming to the
Bureau have been brought into touch with their loved ones in spirit; have gained a better
understanding of God’s Kingdom; a wider outlook and a more definite purpose in life,
secure in the knowledge that there is no death. I am also happy in knowing that so many
of our Mediums love this place and have found sympathy, understanding and
encouragement at the Bureau before branching out on their own.
“When the Bureau was opened in 1914 there were very few centres; now doors are
open and opening all over London and the provinces for the seekers after knowledge
and the sad who need comfort.
“To the members and workers who have so loyally supported me I give sincere
thanks, and I gratefully acknowledge all I owe to Mrs. Bayley Worthington, our
President, who made it possible for the Bureau to open in 1914,31
and has stood by me
so faithfully all these years.
“When I close down this side of the work in April, I feel it will be au-revoir and not
good-bye to many of you, for after a time of quiet and attention to personal affairs, I
hope the work I am to do will bring me into touch with many of you again”
——§——
31
Mrs. Bayley Worthington provided rent for rooms for two years.
123
Interested!
UCL
Centre for the History of Psychological
Disciplines
——§——
CALL FOR PAPERS:
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH IN THE HISTORY OF
MEDICINE AND THE SCIENCES
14-15 SEPTEMBER 2012, UNIVERSITY COLLEGE LONDON
Keynote speakers:
PROF. IVOR GRATTAN-GUINNESS
& PROF. SONU SHAMDASANI
The UCL Centre for the History of Psychological Disciplines32
invites original papers
for a two-day conference on social, intellectual, epistemological and methodological
aspects of psychical research and parapsychology in relation to orthodox medicine and
the sciences in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.33
Abstracts for 20-minutes papers
should be around 300 words long and must be submitted by 15 June 2012.
We plan to publish a selection of papers in an edited volume.
For enquiries and abstract submissions, please e-mail a.sommer@ucl.ac.uk
Deadline for abstract submissions: 15 June 2012
——§——
32
UCL Centre for the History of Psychological Disciplines, University College London, London WC1E
6BT http://www.ucl.ac.uk/cehp/chpd
33
Leslie Price writes:—“I plan to offer to this conference selection committee, a paper about Augustus
and Sophia De Morgan and their early investigations into Spiritualism. He was apparently the first UK
scientist to engage in such research.”
124
Felicia Rudolphina Scatcherd
1862–1927
In last month’s issue of Psypioneer we published an article “Notes on Mr. Stanley De
Brath’s Career” which originally appeared in Psychic Science, 1924. On page 104 of
this issue,34
I included a psychic photograph taken by the Crewe Circle, at the British
College of Psychic Science on July 24th 1924. The psychic photograph showed an
“extra” of the recently deceased Dr. Gustave Geley, with three sitters Mrs. Barbara
McKenzie, Stanley De Brath, and Miss Felicia R. Scatcherd.
Miss Scatcherd was well acquainted within Spiritualism and Psychical Research, as her
obituary, published below shows.35
The Passing of Miss F. R. Scatcherd.
The Two Worlds:—36
As briefly announced last week, we have to record the passing to the higher life of
one of the most enthusiastic workers that Spiritualism has had of late years, in the
person of Miss Felicia Scatcherd, whose transition took place at her residence, 14, Park-
terrace, London, on Saturday, March 12th, at the age of 64 years. Her transition
followed a long period of uncertain health, but she had looked forward to a complete
recovery.
Felicia Rudolphina Scatcherd (Felix Rudolph),37
was the daughter of Watson
Scatcherd, of the Indian Civil Service, and Emily Frances, only daughter of the Rev.
Augustus Crofton. She was for some time editor of the Asiatic Review, and up to the
time of her passing was still associated with that journal as honorary co-editor. She was
a member of the Council of the East India Association, life member of the Sociological
Society, and of the British Association for the Advancement of Science.
She had travelled extensively in the Near East, and had lectured on social science,
psychology, Spiritualism, and on behalf of the oppressed nations. She was one of W. T.
Stead’s helpers in his great European effort to establish international peace, and assisted
him in the founding of the “Julia Bureau.”38
She was hailed by him and others as the
“M. P. for Humanity.”
34
Psypioneer Volume 8, No.3:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.3March2012.pdf
35
Note by LP:—The College of Psychic Studies (CPS) recently displayed on their main staircase a fine
study of Miss Scatcherd by Miss Dora Head, the photographer whose work was much appreciated by
Spiritualists.” CPS:—http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk
36
The Two Worlds, March 25, 1927 pages 182-183.
37
Wikipedia: Felicia Rudolphina Scatcherd:—http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Felicia_Rudolphina_Scatcherd
38
A search in, Stead the Man, Personal Reminiscences, brings up some of her involvement with Stead
and Julia’s Bureau:—http://archive.org/details/steadmanpersonal00harprich
125
At the time of her
transition she was the Vice-
President of the Stead Bureau
and a member of the Society
for Psychical Research. She
was also Vice-President of
the Greek Socialist Party and
the Greek Labour League.
She was a delegate to the
International Conference of
Housing and City Planning in
New York, 1925, and to the
International Spiritualist
Congress in Paris, 1926.
Her pen had been used widely, and her publications include “Human Radio-
Activity,” “Sir William Crookes and Psychic Research,” and numerous articles on the
Near East, Armenia, Russia, “The Friends of India,” etc. She was a very capable
lecturer, and certainly one of the finest conversationalists we have ever met. She had
friends in every country in Europe, and had worked long and arduously for the
oppressed nations of Europe, particularly the smaller nations in the Far East. During the
war she did a large amount of international work, and was well known in most of the
chancellories of Europe.
In the realm of psychical research she gave very valuable assistance to Sir William
Crookes, Sir William Barrett, Professor Richet, and Dr. Baraduc.39
Her experiments in
psychic phenomena were very varied. She began as a student of psychical research, but
early arrived at the conclusion that Spiritualism held the true solution to its problems.40
She threw herself whole-heartedly into the Spiritualist movement, was a member of the
S.N.U., and was always the stalwart friend of mediums. She conducted extensive
experiments in psychic photography, particularly with the Crewe Circle, and there was
scarcely any phase of humanitarian, political, and religious work in which she was not
known.
To know Felicia Scatcherd was an education in itself. She was a mine of information
upon scores of topics, and had met practically all the great men of the last forty years.
She was small and sparing in build, but her eyes were always bursting with spiritual
life. To know her was to love her, and any close association with her engulfed one in
39
Dr. M. Baraduc held similar interests in psychic photographs, for example: Thought Photography.
Examples of his work can be found in Stead’s Borderland, July 1896 Vol. III No.3.
40
A debate was held on November 9, 1922 at the London Spiritualist Alliance on the ‘Relations between
Spiritualists and the Society for Psychical Research’, presided by Dr. Abraham Wallace. Miss Scatcherd
“referred to the rooted disinclination of the S.P.R. to investigate physical phenomena in the past. In 1906
she made repeated efforts to induce them to investigate Eva C., but without success. She also drew
attention to the manner in which the work of the most distinguished past President of the Society (Sir
William Crookes) had been ignored and even attacked. Mr. Dingwall, the present research officer, had
characterised Sir William, Dr. Lindsay Johnson, Dr. Geley and Mr. Stanley De Brath alike as unskilled
investigators. She definitely declared that Mr. Hope was anxious for the investigation referred to by the
previous speaker”.
126
her ideals. For her, life was an adventure; she loved humanity with a broad and deep
affection, and was always insisting upon the greatness which lies before the human
race.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in his last psychic novel, “The Land of Mist,” alludes to
Miss Scatcherd as “Miss Delicia Freeman,” a small lady with delicate face and bright
bird-like eyes, who carried a handbag containing leaflets and tracts of many kinds, and
says “There was not a newspaper office, a statesman’s sanctum, or a political
chancellory which had ever presented a barrier strong enough to hold her back where
she believed there was good work to be done,” and again, “There was something
compelling in the absolutely unselfish enthusiasm of this small person who did, at a
moment’s notice, take on anyone, from a Mormon elder to an Albanian brigand.” Sir
Arthur does not exaggerate the pertinacity of this wonderful character.
Wherever there was an “under-dog” or an unpopular cause, whether individual or
national, her sympathies went out to them, and in all the great movements for reform
her physical presence will be sorely missed. With such a character working assiduously
on the inner side of life, it may well be that the physical loss sustained for Spiritualists
by her passing will be more than recouped by her continued mental activity.
——§——
The Cremation of Miss Scatcherd.
By HORACE LEAF. F.R.C.S.
IN the presence of a large and distinguished company which filled the chapel to
capacity, the mortal remains of Miss Felicia R. Scatcherd were cremated on Thursday,
March 17th, at Golders Green Crematorium, London.
The service was conducted by the Rev. Fielding Ould,41
who spoke feelingly of the
deep respect in which Miss Scatcherd was held by her many, friends and admirers. In a
moving speech he referred to her as “a great and good spirit. Great was her courage,
great was her energy, her compassion was easily aroused. Her happiness was found in
trying to find happiness for other people.” He felt sure that her old friend, W. T. Stead,
and the wise Sir William Crookes, who also knew and admired her, had met her, along
with a group of Greeks and Hindus and members of other races for whom she had done
so much. “One by one we cross the frontiers of that other country. Blessed are they
who, like our friend, are followed by the loving prayers of those left behind. Such souls
are rare.”
41
Rev. F. Fielding-Ould, M.A., died in June 1930.
Re – his brother Robert Fielding-Ould: At this time Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was president of the London
Spiritualist Alliance (LSA), unknown to all but a few people, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle resigned his
presidency of the LSA., a few days before his death (July 7th 1930), because they would not join his
deputation to the Home Office. See: Psypioneer Volume 2, No.7:— New light on the final days of Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle, pages 139-147:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.7July06.pdf
127
Many beautiful wreaths were sent by Spiritualists, members of other organisations to
which Miss Scatcherd was attached, and private friends; all of them containing written
expressions of affection and regret of the senders.
Our departed friend had been a tireless worker, speaker and organiser for various
bodies, religions, scientific, political and humanitarian, and had won recognition in
many ways and in many parts of the world for her wholehearted earnestness and tireless
energy for the Truth.
As a member of the British Association, the Society for Psychical Research, an
active worker in the House and City Planning and Garden City Movements, Editor (and
later honorary co-editor) of the “Asiatic Review,” she crowded into her 64 years of life
a splendid record of work and achievement.
No movement will feel her loss more than Spiritualism, whose fearless advocate she
was for many years. Her analytical yet sympathetic nature made her a most excellent,
observer and judge of psychic phenomena; and her excellence as a speaker and writer
enabled her to support her opinions in a manner difficult to surpass. Only a few hours
before her passing she was planning with Dr. Abraham Wallace fresh experiments for
the purpose of establishing even more definitely the fact of human survival.
Although not destined to conduct these experiments on earth, she has seized the
opportunity of doing so from The Beyond by controlling a well-known medium in the
presence of the Reverend Vale Owen, three days after her death, sending among other
messages, her “love to her dear friend Dr. Abraham Wallace,”42
promising him that
when she has rested she will continue her work through some medium. She gave every
indication of great happiness and enjoyment of her new experiences.
Among those present at her cremation were Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Dr. Abraham
Wallace, Mr. and Mrs. David Gow (Editor of “Light”), Mr. and Mrs. Leigh Hunt, Mr.
G. R,. S. Mead (Editor of “The Quest”), Major. C. Peters (National Laboratory of
Psychical Research), A. Vout Peters, Mr. Glover Botham, Mrs. M. H. Wallis, Mr.
Dawson Rogers, Captain Carnell, Mrs. St. Clair Stobart (British College of Psychic
Science), Mrs. Ellis Powell, Mrs. Prosser, Miss Hickman, Mrs. Deverell, Miss Read,
Mrs. Krebs, Mrs. Westbrook (Sociological Society), Mrs. A. Gloceltes, Miss Schartau,
Mrs. Clifton, Mrs. Lawrence, Mrs. Forbes, Mr. R. H. Bates, Rev. H. M. S. Bankart, Dr.
Damoglou, Mr. Francis Nash, M.A., Mr. and. Mrs. Hopgood Hart, Miss Mercy
Phillimore (Secretary, London Spiritualist Alliance), Mr. Dawson Rogers,43
and the
Rev. Vale Owen.
——§——
42
Dr. Abraham Wallace, M.D., passed away at Paignton, Devon, at the ripe age of 80 years. His wife pre-
deceased him only a year before. He leaves a son and two daughters. In 1889, he came to London and
settled in Harley Street as a specialist in Gynaecology. He was on the staff of the “Lancet,” and a member
of the Council of the Society for Psychical Research. He had at his death been a student of psychic facts
for sixty years, and had personal friendships with Miss Florence Cook, Mrs. Mellon, Cecil Husk, Mrs.
Emma H. Britten, Florence Marryat, Stainton Moses, J. J. Morse, Boursnell, and many other workers,
including F. W. H. Myers. The mortal remains were cremated at Golders Green, January 27th, the service
being conducted by Mr. E. W. Oaten, whose personal friendship had extended over twenty years. Taken
from: The Quarterly Transactions (Psychic Science) B.C.P.S., April 1930 Vol. IX. No. 1, page 70.
43
The careful reader will observe that Mr Rogers, son of the late famous editor of the same name, is
listed twice!
128
Book Review by Leslie Price:
REMARKABLE PHENOMENA IN NOTTINGHAM
About 1960, a book was privately published about
the physical mediumship of Mrs Isa A Northage of
Nottingham. It was compiled by one of her co-
workers Allan Macdonald, and included material by
him, by the medium, and by grateful patients, as
well as newspapers reports. Now A Path Prepared
has been reprinted by Saturday Night Press
Publications (SNPP).44
There is a new foreword by
Hannah Carlin, daughter of Mrs Northage.
Since the book is extremely scarce, SNPP have
performed a signal service in making it available
again. Although it will be of especial interest to
students of physical mediumship, there are
references to pioneers of particular interest to us. In
1949, for example, the editor of Two Worlds (TW)
Ernest Thompson sat with Mrs Northage and heard
from Mr Peter Lee. (p.69). Lee was a founder of the
SNU more than once mentioned in Psypioneer. It
took Thompson some effort to verify the details given by Lee. Another communicator,
in 1941, claimed to be Joseph Armitage of Hanging Soothill (p.67), and that he had
been a Unitarian preacher before he became a Spiritualist.45
It fell to Mr. Oaten at TW
to follow up and confirm this.
Some communicators are less evidential. Madame Blavatsky, described as “a noted
medium” (p.38), returns to say she was wrong in teaching reincarnation. She said much
the same in speaking through Mrs Carl Wickland.46
But in another circle, active in
England, reincarnation was being taught.47
Conan Doyle returns with a native, Nicoolai,
to whom he pays tribute for saving his life at the cost of his own in the African jungle
(p.40). Just possibly this may refer to ACD’s voyage to West Africa on the Mayumba in
1881, although our Doylean, Garth Willey, has pointed out to me that this cargo boat
(with limited number of passengers) on which ACD had employment as ship’s surgeon
44
For more details see:—http://snppbooks.com/A-Path-Prepared.html
Also available at Amazon:—http://www.amazon.co.uk/Path-Prepared-Mediumship-Including-
Materialisation/dp/1908421045/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1335170780&sr=1-1
45
In Psypioneer May 2010, we called attention to the unexplored links between Unitarians and early UK
Spiritualism. Page 130-131:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.5.May2010.pdf
46
The Gateway of Understanding, Carl Wickland, Los Angeles, 1934, page 217. Garth Willey points out
that the longer account of the communication by Madame Blavatsky in Wickland Thirty Years Among the
Dead, (1924) is remarkably similar to the one given in “A Path Prepared”. It seems possible that there has
been an editorial slip by the 1960 compiler; perhaps a passage was copied from Wickland at some time,
and later became mistakenly included among transcripts of messages received by Mrs Northage. LP.
47
Of Love between Two Worlds by G. & R. Blake, SNPP, 2012, see:—The Brake Memories – Book
Review – Leslie Price, page 88:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.3March2012.pdf
129
moved down and up the West Coast of Africa and that there is no validation of the
existence of Nicoolai travelling with the boat nor any risk to ACD’s life in the jungle..
There is clearly a need for an independent historical study of Mrs Northage and her
work – her church at Pinewoods still exists. Although it is not explicitly stated, it
appears she came from Seaton in Northumberland. Ann Harrison tells me that she was
born in 1898 and passed in 1985.
The range of her phenomena, which included spirit operations and apports, and the
religious rites which were performed at her centre, suggest an incipient religious
movement beyond ordinary mediumship.
LP.
——§——
[Introductory Note by LP:—We continue reprinting sections from Trethewy’s classic
work. This appendix is of some significance, as it makes clear the relationship between
the communications written down by the medium; the revised version published in the
newspaper, and the further revised book revision; the example quoted of a change is
worth pondering. The entities make a modest claim- that they don’t know about man’s
origin, which the medium reverses. Other sections from this book may appear later.]
The “Controls” of
Stainton Moses:48
PUBLICATION OF
SPIRIT
TEACHINGS
EXTRACTS from the books of
automatic writing, consisting chiefly of
passages containing religious teachings,
were printed in the Spiritualist from 1873
to 1876. As far as the script shows, this
publication was begun without the
knowledge of the “controls,” but
continued with their consent, and was not
accompanied by any revision.
The first mention of revision was in
Book XVI on August 29th, 1875, when
this step was suggested by Imperator
instead of further publication, and was
48
The “Controls” of Stainton Moses (“M.A. Oxon.”), by A.W. Trethewy B.A. Hurst & Blackett Ltd, nd.
Appendix 1, pages 195-197 inclusive.
130
approved by Stainton Moses, who, nevertheless, continued to get extracts printed and
deferred preparations for revision. In 1876 he was frequently reproved by his “controls”
for the delay; he ought to have had the passages copied in a form convenient for
correction by automatic writing, but he was not ready with the papers when the
“controls” could have taken up the work, and when he was ready in May, 1876, it was
too late for them to take it up, apparently because his organism was not fit to be used by
them for such a purpose. The matter dropped, and it was not till Christmas, 1878, in
Book XXII, that the project was again discussed. Then, and early in 1879, it was
decided that the text should stand without revision and rearrangement, and that Stainton
Moses, in his supraliminal state, should supply an introduction and explanatory notes
besides dividing the teachings into sections. He then wrote a memorandum describing
how he selected passages for publication under automatic guidance, and stating that all,
both old and new, would undergo verbal revision.
There was further discussion up to 1883, when the book Spirit Teachings was
published, containing very little more than had been already printed in the Spiritualist.
The script is silent on the subject of any revision having been undertaken for that
journal; the various references to the matter imply that the teachings were printed there
without being edited in any way, and were subsequently to be revised for publication in
book form. This, too, seems to be the obvious meaning of Stainton Moses’ words on
pages 4, 5 of the Introduction to Spirit Teachings. The opposite, however, was the case.
A comparison of the original text with the Spiritualist and Spirit Teachings shows that
there is much more difference between the script and the journal than between the
journal and the book. Some paragraphs were inserted in the Spiritualist which had never
been written in the original text, and the contents of others were much altered. There
does not often appear to be any important difference in the sense, but there has been
much expansion and some development in the argument.
The most significant departure from the original is that in the Spiritualist of 1875,
Vol VI., p. 182, and in Spirit Teachings, p. 153, Imperator is represented as saying:
“Of man we know more than we are permitted to tell, as yet. . . . Of the
origin of man you may be content to know that the day will come when we
shall be able to tell you more certainly of the spiritual nature, its origin and
destiny; whence it came and whither it is going.”
whereas the words in Book VI, August 31st, 1873, are:
“Of man we know more than man knows of himself, but we know not all.
Of his origin we know nothing, nor of his development until the period
when human records tell us of his history. We have never seen or spoken
with a spirit who can tell us of man’s origin.”
Throughout the printed volume of Spirit Teachings the style is that of the “controls,”
not of Stainton Moses himself; so there is no reason to doubt the correctness of his
statement on page 4 of the Introduction: “What is now printed has been subjected to
revision by a method similar to that by which it was first written.” He must have
forgotten the sequence of events and confused the earlier occasions, when practically all
the work was done, with the later preparations, which led to very little result. Where
there is a departure from the original, one may reasonably suspect that the amended
131
version has been coloured by the medium’s mind, for when he sat down with a pen in
his hand and the idea of automatic revision in his head he must have found a difficulty
in keeping his normal opinions in the background.
We might be justified in attributing to this source the difference in the passages
quoted above, and there are other cases in which it is impossible to feel certainty as to
the origin of the alteration. Stainton Moses, moreover, in the exercise of his normal
discretion, must have made omissions and even verbal corrections which did not affect
the sense.
A second series of Spirit Teachings was published by Stainton Moses in Light during
the years 1881-1884 and 1889. After his death Mrs. Speer supplied a further series for
publication in the same paper during the years 1896-1898, and passages were printed in
the issues of 1899 and 1900 which, for the most part, had already appeared in the issues
of 1881. These particulars refer to the communications in the automatic script and not to
trance addresses, which are sometimes included in the index of Light under Spirit
Teachings.
Except for some omissions, chiefly of a personal nature, there is very little difference
between the original text and the version printed in Light.
——§——
132
[Introductory Note by Psypioneer:—In the November 2011 issue,49
we published the
first part of a series of An Historical Survey by Leslie Curnow, written 1924 especially
for The Two Worlds, and serialised weekly. Some of this material will cover well-
trodden ground for readers, but it also brings forth much long forgotten material. The
full serialisation will now continue in Psypioneer. Curnow has already been featured in
the August 2009 issue of Psypioneer; Conan Doyle’s Australian Helper- Leslie
Curnow.50
]
The Physical Phenomena of the Past
The Two Worlds:—51
An Historical Survey
Spirit Lights
Marvels Unknown to Science,
By W. Leslie Curnow, B.A.52
A RAP, as we have seen, started Modern Spiritualism, and next to the Rap the most
familiar manifestation at spiritual seances is the Spirit Light. It has, indeed, almost
taken the place of the former as regards frequent occurrence. It marks an advance in the
operation of spiritual forces. The Rap was a hard, crude call suited to a materialistic
world; it was succeeded by something infinitely more beautiful, mysterious and
suggestive. The Spirit Light is a form of matter, as we shall see, but it is matter of a
wondrous, sublimated kind.
KNOWN IN THE MIDDLE AGES
The appearance of what we now have good reason for supposing were Spirit Lights
was common in the Middle Ages, as readers of Iamblichus are aware. Joan of Arc, we
know, declared that “a light” usually appeared with the Voices which came to her. So,
too, the whole literature of spiritual manifestations abounds with instances of lights
accompanying the phenomena. Iamblichus regarded the “heavenly light” as an evidence
of the spiritual nature of Divination.
We do not propose in this article to examine the question of the reality of Luminous
Phenomena. It is enough to show, by indicating their universal occurrence, that they are
49
See Volume 7, No.11, pages 349-355:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.11November2011.pdf
50
See Psypioneer Volume 5, No.8, pages 270-279:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.8August09.pdf
51
The Two Worlds, October 17, 1924 pages 577-578.
52
Member of the Society for Psychical Research, and late Assistant Editor of “Light.” (Two Worlds
reference)
133
a fact in Nature. They come with visions seen by scores of people who know nothing of
Spiritualism of Psychical Research, as the numerous instances given in that
monumental work, “Phantasms of the Living,” attest. They are also frequently observed
at Revival meetings; in fact, everywhere in connection with events which have a
relation to the psychic realm they have been witnessed. Their extremely intimate
connection with psychic phenomena cannot be better illustrated than by recalling that
our spirit friends frequently speak of the medium as “the light.” In the case of the
celebrated medium, Mrs. Piper, of Boston (U.S.A.), this is their universal custom. They
see her radiant aura, hence the name.
So, from Joan of Arc and earlier, to Evan Powell, the famous Welsh medium of our
own day,53
and many other modern mediums, lights are observed to accompany psychic
manifestations.
AT THE START OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM
It is natural to expect to find these manifestations occurring with the Fox girls, and
the records show this to have been the case. Leah Underhill (the eldest sister), in her
book, “The Missing Link in Modern Spiritualism” (New York, 1885), says that she
seldom sat in a darkened room without the appearance of lights, which were visible to
all present. She notes their variety, and this is a feature of the lights seen with every
medium with whom they show. She writes that the lights vary in form, colour and
intensity. “Sometimes they will be the size of a spark, sometimes of that of a hand, or
larger, sometimes flitting or flickering about, sometimes—especially when a spirit is
communicating with you by touches or caresses or otherwise—fixed in front of your
face, like a person looking into your eyes; sometimes a vague, luminous cloudiness,
suggestive of a form or not, as the case may be.” She also mentions on occasion when
very bright lights seemed “almost blazing.” Catherine (Kate) Fox was a wonderful
medium for Lights, of whom we shall speak presently. To conclude the glimpse at the
early days of Modern Spiritualism we may mention that lights occurred in the home of
the Davenports, when the two boys were mere children, and they were seen often in
their later public appearances, as at the historic séance in London at Dion Boucicault’s
house on October 11th, 1864, when it is recorded “a phosphoric light shot from side to
side over our heads.” In April, 1854, a Memorial was presented to the United States
Congress (with 13,000 signatures) praying for the appointment of a Scientific
Commission to examine the prevailing psychic phenomena, and in their enumeration of
these we have
“Lights of various forms and colours, and of difference degrees of intensity, appear
in dark rooms where no substances exist which are liable to develop a chemical action
or phosphorescent illumination, and in the absence of all means and instruments
whereby electricity is generated or combustion produced.”
53
Evan Powell – see Psypioneer issues:—Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Evan Powell – Paul J. Gaunt &
Evan Powell’s Mediumship - Leslie Curnow, pages 219-227:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.7July2011.pdf - Evan Powell the Welsh Physical Medium - Psychic
Science, pages 235-242:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.8August2011.pdf - Evan John Powell and
Sherlock Holmes – Paul J. Gaunt, pages 327-335:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.10October2011.pdf
134
This mention in such an important document shows that Spirit Lights were a familiar
happening at that date.
SIR WILLIAM CROOKES
There is an embarrassment of riches in the records of Lights.54
Perhaps the most
amazing demonstrations occurred with Kate Fox, D. D. Home, Mrs. Everitt, William
Eglinton, and Stainton Moses. Sir William Crookes, whose researches into what he calls
“Luminous appearances” were made with Kate Fox and D. D. Home, writes
(“Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism,” 1874, page 92):—
“Under the strictest test conditions I have seen a solid, self-luminous
body, the size and nearly the shape of a turkey’s egg, float noiselessly about
the room, at one time higher than any one present could reach standing on
tip-toe, and then gently descend to the floor. It was visible for more than ten
minutes, and before it faded away it struck the table three times with a sound
like that of a hard, solid body. During this time the medium was lying back,
apparently insensible in an easy chair.
“I have seen luminous points of light darting about and settling on the
heads of different persons; I have had question answered by the flashing of a
bright light a desired number of times in front of my face. I have seen sparks
of light rising from the table to the ceiling, and again falling upon the table,
striking it with an audible sound. I have had an alphabetic communication
given by luminous flashes occurring before me in the air, whilst my hand
was moving about amongst them. I have seen a luminous cloud floating
upwards to a picture.
“Under the strictest test conditions I have more than once had a solid,
self-luminous, crystalline body placed in my hand by a hand which did not
belong to any person in the room. In the light I have seen a luminous cloud
hover over a heliotrope on a side table, break a sprig off, and carry the sprig
to a lady; and on some occasions I have seen a similar luminous cloud
visibly condense to the form of a hand and carry small objects about.”
In the description in his closing sentences Sir William is coming into the domain of
Materialisations, for it was a partly materialised hand that moved the objects. It is
remarkable, and well worth study, to see how the different phenomena inter-relate.
Raps are made (at times) by Lights, which in turn condense into human hands, faces
and full forms. Lights are made, as we shall see, of material gathered (mainly) from the
body of the medium. In a word, they are Ectoplasmic, and Ectoplasm is the grand key
to the secret of all psychic manifestations of the physical order, even including Spirit
Photography, strange as this may seem.
54
For modern day light phenomena see Psypioneer Volume 4, No.7:—A sitting at Scole - Dr Alan Gauld,
pages 156-164:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.7July08.pdf
135
HOW THE LIGHTS ARE FORMED
As my valued friend, the Editor of this journal, has often said, if you want to know
about the next world, ask those who are living there. So if we want to know how Spirit
Lights are constructed, ask those who make them. This is the way to gain knowledge. It
has to be remembered, however, that in speaking of these supreme mysteries our Senior
Partners have a difficulty in, so to speak, describing a four-dimensional world to those
who live in a world of three dimensions; or, to take a more homely illustration, in
someone trying to describe an aeroplane to a fish.
The finest exponent of Spirit Lights was William Stainton Moses (M. A. Oxon), and
it is from his Guides that we get most information.55
One of them (Grocyn) explained
that the lights were made from “a germ of magnetism” which was brought by the spirit
people. “This germ was invisible to the natural eye, and continued so until it was
surrounded by an envelope of something which was taken from the circle and medium.
This was covered with spiral drapery.” Mentor, another Control or Guide, on one
occasion explained that the germ or nucleus which he brought could not, in certain
unfavourable conditions of a seance, be surrounded with the luminosity which he
obtains from the circle.
At one sitting with Stainton Moses there was an alarming fiasco, and the explanation
is deeply instructive. From under the table there suddenly arose great clouds of
luminous smoke, and Stainton Moses confesses that he was “fairly frightened,” and
rushed from the room in a panic. His hands seemed to be ablaze, and the flame showed
on the door and handle which he touched. Of course all explanation was sought from
the operators on the Other Side, and this is the story they told of an experiment that
went astray.
. THE SPIRITS’ ACCOUNT
I want to ask about that extraordinary phosphoric smoke. I wish much for
information.
“We are scarcely able to write. The shock has destroyed your passivity. It
was an accident. The envelope in which is contained the substance which we
gather from the bodies of the sitters was accidentally destroyed, and hence
the escape into outer air and the smoke which terrified you. It was owing to
a new operator being engaged on an experiment. We regret the shock to
you.”
I was extremely alarmed. It was just like phosphorus.
“No, but similar. We told you when first we began to make the lights that
they were attended with some risk; and that with unfavourable conditions
they would be smokey and of a reddish yellow hue.”
55
See Psypioneer “John King’s spirit-lamp” Volume 7, No.6:—The Beginnings of Full Form
Materialisations in England; Herne and Williams Conclusion – Paul J. Gaunt, pages 182-199:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.6June2011.pdf
136
Yes, I know, but not that they would make a smoke and scene like that.
“Nor would they, save by accident. The envelope was destroyed by
mischance, and the substance which we had gathered escaped.”
What substance?
“That which we draw from the bodily organisms of the sitters. We had a
large supply, seeing that, neither of you had sustained any drain of late.”
You draw it from our bodies—from all?
“From both of you. You are both helpful in this, both. But not from all
people. From some the substance cannot be safely drawn, lest we diminish
the life-principle too much.”
Robust men give it off ?
“Yes, in greater proportion. It is the sudden loss of it and the shock that
so startled you that caused the feeling of weakness and depression.”
It seemed to come from the side of the table.
“From the darkened space between the sitters. We gathered it between
you in the midst. Could you have seen with spirit eye you would have dis-
covered threads of light joined to your bodies, and leading to the space
where the substance was being collected. Those lines of light were ducts
leading to our receptacle.”
From what parts of the body?
“From many: from the nerve-centres and from the spine.”
What is this substance?
“In simple words it is that which gives to your bodies vitality and energy.
It is the life- principle.”
Very like sublimated phosphorus
“No body that does not contain a large portion of what you call
phosphorus is serviceable to us for objective manifestations. There are other
qualities of which you do not know, and which not all spirit can tell, but this
is invariable in mediums for physical manifestations.”— (Spirit Teaching in
Light, 1898: page 98.)
This is one of the clearest expositions I have met of the process involved, and with
less detail it can be endorsed from many other spirit sources. There is only one other
quotation I want to give, where Imperator, Stainton Moses's chief Control, says:—
137
“We have a higher form of what is known to you as electricity, and it is
by that means we are enabled to manifest, and that Mentor shows his globe
of light. He brings with him the nucleus, as we told you.”
As that acute Italian critic, Ernesto Bozzano, has remarked, this explanation
coincides perfectly with what we know of the X-ray, whose energy is none other than
“a higher form of electricity.”
CHARACTER OF THE LIGHTS
The diversity of the lights is so great that there is no fixed quality. They are large and
small; their radiance only extends a few feet, they light up the whole room they are
solid, a hand can be passed through them; they are white, green, blue, like pale
moonlight, or a blaze of flashing luminosity; they rush like meteors, they remain for
forty-five minutes. Each spirit has his own peculiar light and shows it to indicate his
presence.
THE PURPOSE OF THE LIGHTS
Beyond all doubt the propose of the lights is to call attention. They are material
products suited to a material age. Stainton Moses’s guides had ethical and spiritual
communications they wished to give the world, and they had to secure a hearing. They
obtained this through phenomena. The important point to observe is that apart from the
wonderful character of these lights, they showed intelligence. As in the case of Crookes,
correct answers to questions were furnished by means of them. “The Prophet’s little
light came, and we held a long con versation with him, the answers being given in
flashes. It was a very pretty manifestation, the light being turned in each case to the
questioner.” This is only one instance of many with Stainton Moses, and his guides
have assured him that they are the self same people who produce the phenomena and
communicate spiritual teaching.
TISSOT’S MASTERPIECE
M. Tissot, the celebrated French artist, had a sitting with William Eglinton in May,
1885, at which appeared two materialised figures illuminated in a wonderful way by
spirit lights. This scene Tissot afterwards immortalised in his historic picture entitled
“Apparition Medianimique,” a copy of which is to be seen at the rooms of the London
Spiritualist Alliance. The male figure is Ernest, the medium’s guide, and the lady,
Katie, the artist’s bride. Both spirits hold lights in their hands. Tissot describes it as a
blue light, but more white, “as if portions of the moon had been taken and put into the
hands of the apparitions.” Ernest held his spirit light so that the artist could gaze into
Katie’s face, and Tissot, in deep joy, cried in a low voice, “How beautiful she is! She is
more beautiful than I had hoped to see. It is truly Katie.” Katie leaned forward and
kissed him upon the lips.
[TO BE CONTINUED.]
138
“Apparition Medianimique”
DECEASE OF M. TISSOT:
The well-known artist, M. James Joseph
Jacques Tissot, painter of the ‘Life of Christ,’
and who spent ten years of his life amongst art
circles in England, passed away on Saturday last
in the Abbey Bouillon, near Besancon, at the age
of sixty-five. The ‘Life of Christ’ was the
enterprise of a conscientious labourer who had
already passed his fiftieth year. To accomplish
that realistic panorama of over three hundred
water-colour drawings, besides designs and
sketches, tracing the history of the Redemption
from the beginning to the end, in the personal
mission of Christ, Tissot took long and fatiguing
journeys in the Holy Land, studying on the spot
every detail of the Divine Tragedy, and actually
becoming in the process as much an
archaeologist as a painter. The effort was an enormous popular success, visitors from all
parts of the world flocking to the Paris Salon to see the wonderful Tissot Room. The
pictures were also exhibited in London, and attracted crowds of visitors. How great the
success was may be gathered from the fact that a French firm bought the series of
water-colour drawings of the ‘Life of Christ’ for 1,100,000 francs. An English house
had offered £60,000 for them, but had withdrawn the proposal on the ground that the
drawings were too realistic. Spiritualists, however, will remember M. Tissot best for his
exquisite picture entitled ‘Apparition Medianimique,’ representing two spirit forms
which showed themselves through the mediumship of Mr. Eglinton, one of them that of
Mr. Eglinton’s spirit friend ‘Ernest,’ and the other that of M. Tissot’s departed fiancée.
Taken from Light, August 16, 1902, page 389.
——§——
139
Photograph References:
William T. Stead (page 111)
Photograph taken from Borderland: A Quarterly Review and Index, January 1894
Edith K. Harper (page 112)
Taken from: Stead the Man Personal Reminiscences, 1918 edition, facing page 178.
Julia (page 115)
Taken from: Stead the Man Personal Reminiscences, by Edith K. Harper, 1918
edition, facing page 44.
The Sanctum: “Julia’s Bureau,” Mowbray House (page 117)
Taken from: Stead the Man Personal Reminiscences, by Edith K. Harper, 1918
edition, facing page 150.
Estelle W. Stead (page 121)
Page 3: How I know the Dead Return, by William T. Stead, first published in 1911.
The International Congress at Paris (page 125)
Front-page photograph of the Two Worlds, September 25, 1925,56
we can note sitting
in front of Miss Scatcherd (top left), is Ernest Oaten’s wife Amy. Two seats to her right
is Miss Lind-af-Hageby, who later in early 1935 would become President of the London
Spiritualist Alliance (LSA), following the resignation of Arthur Findlay in late 1934.57
William Stainton Moses (page 129)
Supplement to Light, November 5, 1892 the whole issue was a Memorial Issue, to
their editor. Moses died on September 5th, 1892.58
M. James Joseph Jacques Tissot (page 138)
‘Apparition Medianimique,’ this was also published in John S. Farmer’s (biography
of the medium William Eglinton) Twixt Two Worlds, The Psychological Press,
London, 1886.
——§——
56
1925 International Congress at Paris: For the early history of the International Spiritualists’ Federation
see: Psypioneer Volume 4, No.3:—A sketch of the History of the I.S.F. – M Beversluis, pages 70-74:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.3March08.pdf
57
See Psypioneer Volume 2, No.7:—Findlay resigns from the L.S.A. story of intrigue behind the scenes,
pages 142-147:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.7July06.pdf
58
See Psypioneer Volume 4, No.10:—The grave of William Stainton Moses – Paul J. Gaunt, pages 231-
233:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.10October08.pdf
140
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price
pages 294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan The Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review,
by Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
http://www.theohistory.org then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price
page 7:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press
Publications, England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9., available at
Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara
& Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007.
Paperback ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt
pages 106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by
Barry H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-
945296-50-9., available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45
Psypioneer references by Leslie Price pages 39-42:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death,
by Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A)
2009. ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by
Barbara Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN:
0-06-056667-1., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-
10:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
——§——
141
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web
site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
——§——
