{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v8_n5_may_2012.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V8 N5 May 2012","mylang":"de"}
142
F
Amalgamation of Societies
——§——
143 – Infra-Red Photography and the Physical Mediums – Paul J. Gaunt
Materialised Form Photographed – S. G. Donaldson
Infra-Red Rays in the Seance Room – Psychic News
His Infra-Red Séance Pictures were Foretold by Mediums – Psychic News
150 – Theosophy was a Spiritualist Movement? – Book Review by Leslie Price
151 – The Author – Jeffrey Lavoie replies
154 – Comment by Garth Willey
155 – A Name to Conjure with – Madame Blavatsky’s Spirit Calling Board – L. P
155 – Blavatsky News – A Request – Leslie Price
156 – Notes by the Way:
Did Mr Myers become a Theosophist? – Leslie Price
158 – Theosophical Encyclopedia – Leslie Price
159 – Was Madame Blavatsky a Book Memory? – Leslie Price
160 – The Mystery of Stainton Moses – Leslie Price
169 – Spiritualism Caused Disorder at Swedenborg Society – Leslie Price
170 – The Physical Phenomena of the Past … – W. Leslie Curnow, B.A.
176 – Some books we have reviewed
177 – How to obtain this Journal by email
============================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 8, No 5: May 2012
143
INFRA-RED PHOTOGRAPHY AND THE
PHYSICAL MEDIUMS
Photography and physical phenomena have always been a difficult and controversial
mixture, though some mediums and researchers have welcomed a photographic record
of the manifestations. For example, the famous materialisation pictures of the spirit
“Katie King”, taken by William Crookes, aided by an unnamed assistant in 1874. Four
photographs are said to have been found amongst the papers of the well-known artist F.
W. Hayes (1848-1918). The history of these early photographs will be published in the
next issue.
Séance photography significantly progressed in the years that followed. The British
astronomer Sir William Herschel initially discovered infra-red light in 1800, and in
1910, an American physicist named Robert Williams Wood sensitised his own
photographic plates and produced the first known infra-red photographs. By the 1930’s
infra-red film and filters etc., became generally available, which would potentially lift
many of the barriers of seeing inside the dark séances and recording the phenomena.
One early pioneer of infra-red séance photography was Leon Isaacs. But a year or so
prior to Isaacs’s involvement, Psychic News published this article and photograph of the
“New Infra-Red Process”:1
MATERIALISED FORM
PHOTOGRAPHED
NEW INFRA-RED PROCESS
The following is a report of an experimental
sitting with Mrs. Duncan, held in the Séance
Rooms of the Belfast Spiritualists’ Alliance, 29
Rosemary Street. Belfast, on Sunday June 5,
1932, at 9.40 a.m.
By S. G. DONALDSON
I visited the Ilford Photograph Works at
Ilford a few days ago, and obtained from them
particulars of new plates sensitive to infra-red
rays and also of a special screen or filter used in
conjunction with them.
I obtained two filters and a supply of plates
and inspected their apparatus. They gave me
the fullest information and offered every
assistance.
1
Psychic News, June 18, 1932, page 5
144
NEW PROCESS
These plates, filters and apparatus enable a photograph to be taken in a subdued red
light, as the filters pass few visible red rays but allow the passage of the infra-red rays
which affect the plates. I had the apparatus assembled with the help of a Mr. G. Smith, a
member of our Church.
I used two high-powered lamps, one 1,500 w. and one 1,000 w., and had each
housed in a light-tight box with the special filter supplied by Messrs. Ilford.
To overcome the excessive heat generated inside the box, a hairdressers’ hair drier
was utilised to force a current of cool air around the lamp and out through a light-tight
ventilator on the top of the box.
I also used a strip of light asbestos to line the box as I found without this the heat
was too severe on the plywood. Plywood was used owing to the hurried nature of the
preparations.
I had a professional photographer and his assistant and they took charge of the two
cameras. I used two cameras to ascertain which type of lens would be the most suitable.
LIGHTS ARE TOO STRONG
My idea of procuring this apparatus was to use it in connection with the Goligher
circle. On my return to Belfast I asked Mrs. Duncan, who was in Belfast, if she would
be good enough to book a séance with her and attempt to get a photograph with the new
apparatus.
She readily agreed and at a séance that night, Albert, her control, said he would do
his best to ensure success.
A séance was arranged for Sunday morning with a nurse in attendance to supervise
the undressing of Mrs. Duncan, as she usually insists on this. At 9.40 a.m. the séance
commenced.
Mrs. Duncan on entering the cabinet was immediately entranced. Albert spoke and I
explained the procedure to him. He asked that the special lights be turned on to allow
him to test and see if he could withstand them.
Both lights proved too much for him as he complained of a prickling
burning sensation as if he were being tattooed all over. He also
complained of the noise of the fans, stating that the noise was more
destructive than the light.
I had the one light (1,500 w.) used and he stated he would overcome the noise and
do his best to withstand the light. In a little time he said he could not build a form, but
thought that the ectoplasm itself could be made to withstand the rays and would give us
an opportunity of exposing plates.
145
A TATTOOED FEELING
When the curtains parted I could dimly see the substance suspended from the
medium’s mouth and I then asked the photographers to expose plates as long as
possible, risking overexposure rather than under exposure. An exposure of 30 seconds
was given and the curtain closed. Albert stated he would try again.
Cameras were prepared and the same light turned on, and on the curtains parting, an
exposure of 15 seconds was given.
Albert again complained of this “being tattooed” feeling and stated the medium
looked very poorly, so it was decided not to risk any more exposures. Albert was
thanked for his help and the seance closed.
REACTION ON MEDIUM
Nurse MacKay led Mrs. Duncan into her dressing-room and reported to me that
everything was quite satisfactory.
The photographers had the plates immediately developed in my presence and fixed.
Mrs. Duncan on coming out of trance stated she felt a prickling
sensation in her forehead and temples. Her forehead was damp with
perspiration.
I am not aware whether this method of photography has been used in psychic work
before, but it seems to me to hold out great hopes specially if the filter could be
improved to eliminate even more of the visible red rays without interfering with the
output of the infra-red rays.
Albert at the close of the séance said had he had a number of experiments along this
line he could probably prepare the ectoplasm to withstand the rays and get much better
results.
——§——
Leslie Price notes: In a June 2008 Psypioneer story Last minute halt to infra-red tests2
I unwisely stated:
“So far as we are aware, Helen Duncan never had any contact with infra red.
But the belief that she did, and was injured by it, may well have been part of
Spiritualist folk lore.”
The editor’s story corrects this, although there is no suggestion that the medium was
injured. Why was this line of research not pursued with Mrs Duncan?
PN was also supportive of infra-red research; at what point did this change?
2
See Psypioneer Volume 4, No.6:— Mrs Duncan rejected SPR approach & Last minute halt to infra red
tests, pages 140-141:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.6June08.pdf
146
We can note from the above article that the experiment was not carried out in a fully
dark séance, but does give a precise date of the photograph that is used in numerous
articles etc.
Again in Psychic News, front –
page news dated April 7, 1934
we have, according to the
paper the first photograph
taken in the dark.
The short editorial, which
accompanies the photograph,
does not give any indication as
to the photographer’s name,
but this is most probably the
start of Leon Isaacs’s
photography – Involvement.
Isaacs was a sitter in Dorothy
Henderson séances in the early 1930’s. Presumably, Maurice Barbanell wrote the
editorial:
INFRA-RED RAYS IN THE SEANCE ROOM
THE remarkable photograph taken with the infra-red ray process in Mrs. Dorothy
Henderson’s seance room last week opens up tremendous possibilities.
It means that, in co-operation with the spirit guide in charge, Spiritualists should be
able, in future, to obtain a permanent record of psychic phenomena which occur in the
dark.
This photograph was obtained, using the new Ilford infra-red filter and plates, and a
Sashalite lamp.
The flash takes place behind the infrared screen, and enables an instantaneous
exposure to be made. All that is visible is a very dull red flash of light as the exposure is
made.
It should be quite possible, where mediumship is strong enough, to obtain perfect
photographs of materialised forms. Sitters would then have records of the appearance of
their beloved “dead.”
The new process will be of value to trumpet seances as it should be quite easy to
obtain photographs of trumpets levitated in the air.
The infra-red process is an excellent aid to the Spiritualist movement, as it will help
to make the chances of fraud very unlikely. It will also dissipate the old bogey of “Oh, it
happened in the dark!”
——§——
147
In the following week’s issue, there was indeed a photograph of a “trumpet” séance,
held at the home of Harry Boddington with the medium Harry Brown; again, the
photographer is not credited.
“… During the whole of
the sitting, the medium’s
hands were held on one
side by Mrs. Marjorie Bell,
and on the other by her
husband, whom the camera
has caught in the act of
singing.
“When the photograph
was taken, the medium was
reclining on a couch in the
cabinet, in trance.”3
——§——
Below is an early profile of Leon Isaacs,4
who later would produce some of the most
well known photographs in Spiritualist history, i.e., the physical phenomena of Jack
Webber; transfiguration photographs of Mrs. Bullock; the levitation photographs of
Colin Evans at the mass Link séance in 1938;5
as well as Ronald (Cockersell) Edwin,
later a self-confessed fraud.
HIS INFRA-RED SÉANCE PICTURES WERE
FORETOLD BY MEDIUMS
LEON ISAACS, the pioneer of infra-red
séance pictures, was told by the spirit world that
he would specialise in this form of photography
long before he used his camera for this purpose.
Isaacs, who has always been a keen
photographer, obtained evidence of Survival at
his first séance. It was soon after Psychic News
started, eight years ago. He had suffered a
bereavement. Having seen the first few issues of
Psychic News, he decided to investigate
Spiritualism.
He went to the Marylebone Spiritualist
Association, where he joined a group sitting
3
The photograph was taken when the trumpet was in the act of falling to the ground.
4
Psychic News, August 24, 1940.
5
See:—http://www.flickr.com/photos/michellekopczyk/3260901900/
148
with Alfred Vout Peters. Isaacs handed the medium an article and was told at once it did
not belong to him, but to someone who had “died.” Vout Peters described this person
and gave evidence which convinced Isaacs that Survival was a fact. At seances with
Dorothy Henderson he twice saw the materialised face of the same individual.
RED CLOUD’S TESTS
More evidence followed from other mediums. Gradually it was impressed on him
that he was to work for Spiritualism by taking séance pictures by means of infra-red
photography.
When Isaac’s wife sat with Estelle Roberts, she was given a message from a guide
she knew that her husband ought to get on with taking photographs by red light. Red
Cloud added that Isaacs had sat with his medium. This was fine evidence, for the
medium did not know of any association between her present sitter and Isaacs, who had
come for a sitting six months before. And Estelle knew nothing of his interest in infra-
red photography.
PSYCHIC HISTORY MADE
Isaacs has taken hundreds of pictures at seances, photographing psychic phenomena
at sittings with many mediums. Many of these have been published in Psychic News. As
honorary photographer to the International Institute for Psychical Research, he was
responsible for taking the first infra-red film of séance happenings. For this, Isaacs
invented and manufactured all his own apparatus.
Before he was offered his present position—staff photographer for a Fleet Street
newspaper—he was told at a séance that he would have a change of occupation. He was
given the exact date on which he would start. One medium even described the building
in which he would work.
There is a psychic story in connection with Isaacs’s house at Hendon, in North-West
London. Nearly a year before he moved into it, it was described by different mediums
to him and his wife. They were told they would move into the Hendon district, that the
house would be near a park and a school and that it would have a gabled roof and red
berry bushes near the front door. One medium said there would be an association
between the house and someone connected with Isaacs’s office.
Last year, they were hunting for a house in the Hendon district—soon after returning
from holiday—and looked over one they had seen before from a distance, but had not
examined closely. They realised it was the house that had been psychically described to
them. Even the red berry bushes were there.
LINKS IN THE SPIRIT CHAIN
That night they went to a Spiritualist meeting at Islington. Isaacs saw there an office
friend, accompanied by a woman, to whom he was introduced. Isaacs was telling this
woman about the house they had seen at Hendon. When he mentioned the bushes, the
woman surprised him by saying that she had planted them herself. It was her house and
had been empty for nine months!
149
But there was a psychic story on the woman’s side, too. Her son had passed on in
that house. When the mother moved, he told her he would keep it empty until the “right
people” came for it. She found that for unknown reasons people who viewed the house
did not rent it.
“DEAD” SON’S MESSAGE
Some weeks before, the “dead” boy told her the “right people” had seen the house,
they had gone on holiday and would take the house when they returned. That day, he
had told her to go to a Spiritualist meeting. Her friend took her to the church at Islington
and the two ends of the chain were joined up when she met the Isaacs, who became her
tenant.
Isaacs and his wife are finding that after eight years of sittings they are beginning to
develop their own psychic gifts. They were told when they first investigated that they
had powers of mediumship, but when year after year passed and no mediumship
manifested they began to doubt. But now with regular sittings in their own home, both
have developed clairvoyance. Mrs. Isaacs has found she has the added gift of trance.
SPOILED RESULTS PREVENTED
A new member of their circle, visiting them for the first time, told Isaacs about a
new infra-red camera he was making but which no one else had seen. This friend even
told him about a leak, which would spoil results, and advised him to look for it under a
strong light. Isaacs did so and found two unsuspected leaks which would have spoiled
all results.
Leon Isaacs is now taking a more active part in the organisation side of the
movement, for he has been appointed secretary of a new Spiritualist church which as
just been opened in Hendon.
For the benefit of the movement he is prepared to photograph, free of charge, any
worth-while physical phenomena occurring in the homes of London readers.
___
To be continued …
Paul J. Gaunt
——§——
150
THEOSOPHY WAS A SPIRITUALIST
MOVEMENT?
[Introductory Note by Psypioneer:— A new book by a doctoral student at Exeter
University suggests that the Theosophical Society was a Spiritualist movement.6
The
Theosophical Society was founded in New York in 1875 by Henry Olcott, Madame
Blavatsky, Emma and William Britten, C.C. Massey, and others. It spread worldwide.
Jeffrey Lavoie’s book, which is sometimes critical of Blavatsky, has been dismissed by
the anonymous website Blavatsky News, which observed: “No doubt the book will find
favour with Lavoie’s congregation, Calvary Baptist Church in Hanson, Massachusetts,
where he is Senior Pastor.”7
]
Leslie Price below questions the central thesis of the book:
Psypioneer has always taken the view that
organisational boundaries are of limited
significance. The same workers often appear in a
variety of affiliations. The fabric of many such
links has been explored since 1985 by the network
of scholars around the journal Theosophical
History.8
The Exeter Centre for the Study of Esotericism,
where Jeffrey Lavoie is researching, is of
increasing importance, and the pioneers of the
psychic field appear regularly in the work of its
scholars. All this is a challenge to individual
writers and to psychic organisations to raise the
intellectual quality of our publications.
Lavoie’s book is a fine example of the new wave.
He mines extensively a quarter century of TH
work. He draws also on the latest investigation of
the Western Esotericism tradition, in which Professor Nicholas Goodricke-Clarke of
Exeter has placed Blavatsky. His is the first book to employ the new 2011 edition of Art
Magic originally edited by Mrs Britten, and he cites material from Marc Demarest’s
web site.9
6
The Theosophical Society, the History of a Spiritualist Movement, BrownWalkerPress, Boca Raton,
Florida., 2012 $29.95.
7
http://blavatskynews.blogspot.co.uk/2012_03_01_archive.html
8
www.theohistory.org
9
www.ebbritten.org
151
In retelling the history of the T.S. until the passing of Madame Blavatsky in 1891, he is
able to show numerous links with Spiritualism. After all, many of the founders and
workers were, or had been, Spiritualists; and so were some of the critics of Theosophy.
So we find here extended discussion of such leaders as Stainton Moses, Emma
Hardinge Britten, James Burns and Alfred Russel Wallace, as well as Olcott and
Blavatsky.
But there is a problem with the central thesis. Spiritualism is defined reasonably enough
as the tenet “that departed spirits of the recently deceased can communicate with the
living through human beings known as mediums” (Lavoie p.23). Spiritualists
participate in this. In general, the Theosophical Society denied and rejected such
communication. At various times, Madame Blavatsky might concede some possibility
of occasional genuine communication. Yet the main teaching was against it. There was
sharp criticism of mediumship in Isis Unveiled, 1877. This continued in the Mahatma
Letters received from her teachers. It was taken up by her chief disciple in America,
William Judge. We have printed some of these criticisms in Psypioneer, such as those
by Countess Wachtmeister10
and Annie Besant.11
There was even a theosophical theory
that Spiritualism was a movement started by living occultists.
The situation is analogous to the emergence of Christianity from Judaism. We can say
that it began as a Jewish movement, just as we can say that Theosophy began as a
Spiritualist Movement, but at some point, the logic of the new beliefs brings about a
formal separation, which was implicit from the beginning.
Apart from its extensive references to old and new material, the merit of Lavoie’s book
is that it causes us to look again at where the essentials might be in both Spiritualism
and Theosophy. It is contrarian in the best sense.
LP.
Jeffrey Lavoie replies:
First, of all let me start by thanking the editorial staff for allowing me to respond to
this review and for taking notice of my work.
One of the things that I had to do in preparing this book was to limit my study to a
particular chronology; thus, I decided to focus on the early Theosophical Society
beginning with its founding in 1875 and ending in 1891 with the death of Blavatsky.
This chronological parameter does not allow for some of the more interesting
discussions in relation to how Blavatsky’s writings (especially on Spiritualism) were
eventually interpreted and assimilated by the next generation of Theosophists, but it at
least gets the conversation started. As the reviewer above clearly pointed out, my basic
premise is that between the years 1875-1891 there was never a clear ‘formal separation’
10
Psypioneer Volume 4, No 11:—Spiritualism in the light of Theosophy – Countess Constance
Wachtmeister, pages 259-270:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.11November08.pdf
11
Psypioneer Volume 2, No 7:—The Yucatan Brotherhood - Annie Besant, pages 151-154:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.7July06.pdf
See also a paper by Emily Kislingbury discussed by Lavoie; Spiritualism in its relation to Theosophy
(1892) :— http://www.numerologic.com/theosophy/SpiritualismRelationTheosophyEK.html
152
between Spiritualism and the Theosophical Society; all depended on who was speaking,
and to whom. My conclusion at a high level was that these two movements remained
connected though this relationship was as diverse and varying as its members and their
beliefs (the article cited above by Emily Kislingbury is proof of this continuing
connection and evidences this desire to reconcile these two movements; also see Alfred
Percy Sinnett’s later writings for a different perspective with a similar goal).
In any study one can focus on the differences or the similarities. While many books
have clearly listed the differences between the Theosophical Society and Spiritualism I
decided to focus on their similarities, thus my project. What really surprised me was
how many elements were shared between these two movements especially through the
writings of one of its founders – Helena Blavatsky. As I read Blavatsky’s individual
works I noticed her view of spirits and their attractions to the living kept evolving. In
Isis Unveiled this attraction was based on their relationship with the individual during a
lifetime (a similar belief was held by Allan Kardec as I alluded to on p. 132. ‘the spirit
watches over its family member’); whereas, in Mahatma Letters Nos. XVI, XXI, and
XXc (Lavoie pp. 233-235) this attraction was based on the type of death they
experienced, i.e. violent deaths could communicate more easily with mediums. Then in
the Key to Theosophy it was determined that while most spirit communications were
due to adepts there was still a slight possibility of communication between the medium
and the spirit; thus, as Blavatsky’s thought process progressed, the ability for ‘spirit
communications with mediums’ (the basic tenet of Spiritualism as I see it) became more
and more difficult, though the potential still existed.
If nothing else, this varied opinion illustrates that Blavatsky’s interpretation of the
abilities of the spirit to communicate, was continually changing in the early days of the
Theosophical Society. Now certainly the Theosophical Society’s connection with
Spiritualism evolved more drastically as it focused upon the East; however, it still
maintained similar elements (and elementals for that matter!) which I examine in my
book, including the possibility for spirit communications with mediums, albeit only in
rare cases. But isn’t this belief in communication the one belief that makes a Spiritualist
a Spiritualist? If this is the case then Blavatsky could have been classified as a
Spiritualist throughout her entire life, regardless of her other beliefs.
I know defining Spiritualism is a dodgy subject in itself, but I would like to take the
analogy suggested by the above reviewer between Judaism and Christianity to clarify
my thesis/position. Are all Christians also Jews (‘Jew’ and ‘Jewish’ are used here in
relation to the religious belief known as Judaism, not ethnicity)? Are all Jews also
Christians? The answer is essentially no. The basic fundamental belief that is agreed
upon by all (or most) Christians is the birth, death, and resurrection of Jesus of
Nazareth. If a Jew believed in this defining trait of Christ under any circumstances
would he be considered Jewish or Christian? I believe he would be considered a
Christian as the only requirement for this label is a belief in the three elements: death,
burial, and resurrection. Now, what if this hypothetical ‘Jew’ said, ‘I believe that God
did come down as Jesus and performed these three tasks and while I don’t believe in
any of the Pauline epistles, John’s writings, or any other New Testament book I do
believe in the gospel of Mark’, would this ‘Jew’ be considered a Jew or a Christian?
Certainly the answer to this question is subjective based upon the suppositions of
whoever is doing the labeling; however, I believe an argument could be made that this
‘Jew’ would absolutely be considered a Christian, because again the only requirement
153
for taking the label of ‘Christian’ has been met. In fact, this belief would justify labeling
this ‘Jew’ as a ‘Christian’ regardless of whatever else he may believe that would make
him an ‘unorthodox’ Christian. Now, this individual could not fairly be categorized as a
Baptist, Methodist, Presbyterian, etc. but they could definitely be labelled as a
Christian. I know some would argue that I have merely engaged semantics to make my
case; however, I believe this is a legitimate justification.
Also, it seemed that Blavatsky’s supposed emergence from Spiritualism began with
her belief in elementals, but was this view unusual for a Spiritualist? The so-called
‘father of Spiritualism’ Andrew Jackson Davis held a similar belief in deceitful spirits
only instead of calling them elementals he called them diakkas (Lavoie pp. 124-126).
These diakkas were deceptive spirits that frequently tormented unsuspecting mediums:
I have been long familiar with, that a very large proportion of discordant
and repulsive and false experience in Spiritualism it so be explained by
admitting into your hypothesis a fact, namely: that the Diakka are
continually victimizing sensitive persons, making sport of them, and,
having a jolly laughing ‘time’ at the expense of really honest and sincere
people, including mediums, whom they especially take delight in
psychologizing and dispossessing of the use of will. There is no kind of
alleged obsession, no species of assumed witchcraft, no phase of religious
insanity where such psychology is not possible (Andrew Jackson Davis,
The Diakka, and Their Earthly Victims (Boston: Colby & Rich, 1880) p.
15.).
Davis’ view on the nature of diakkas was that they were involved with all aspects of
earthly evil including playing ‘important parts in great assaults upon bad governments,
upon pernicious organized customs, upon evil social conditions, and frequently upon
religious errors and superstitions’ (Davis p.19); thus, the influence of diakkas on the
world of the living was considerable. The only original element that Blavatsky
suggested in regard to her elementals was the frequency by which they were channelled,
she believed (or settled upon in the Key to Theosophy) that the majority of spirit-
medium communications were the result of elemental spirits; whereas Davis would
have said many communications were diakkas, but not most. The overall philosophical
differences between these two views do not seem all that significant.
Another main element that fuelled my suspicion that the TS remained a Spiritualist
movement, were Blavatsky’s early critics; many of them accused her of maintaining a
philosophical connection with Spiritualism. And it wasn’t just the Spiritualist critics
either, this list also included Arthur Lillie the gnostic ‘Buddhist’ (who was not a
Spiritualist by anyone’s standards despite the fact that he was grouped together with
them in my book) and the Eastern guru Swami Vivekananda. So it seemed that this
argument was grounded in historical precedent, and when one follows these leads out
they seem to make some valid points. It is these similarities and elements that I attempt
to identify and examine in my book.
Now, before I end I would like to clarify one thing. I am not denying that in Isis
Unveiled Blavatsky was attempting to distance herself from Spiritualism through a
‘sharp criticism of mediumship’ as the reviewer articulated above (and as I also
observed in my book, using Brendan French’s doctoral thesis and Gary Trompf’s
154
‘Macrohistory’ as sources); however, despite these initial intentions, within a few short
months after the publication of Isis Unveiled it seemed that Blavatsky had realigned
herself with Spiritualism as evidenced in a letter which she wrote to John Bundy of the
Religio-Philosophical Journal in which she said: ‘I am a true, firm, if anything too
exalted spiritualist… I have no greater enemies in the world than spiritualists
themselves, whose faith or rather philosophy I would see spread throughout the world
and become the only and universal belief on earth…don’t represent me as an enemy of
true Spiritualism’ (Lavoie pp. 42-44). Again I think this quote merely proves my
conclusion: that Blavatsky’s opinion of Spiritualism was never really defined,
especially before the ‘Oriental shift.’ While I think there is sufficient evidence to prove
that the TS (emerged out of and) remained a Spiritualist movement during the years
1875-1891, my main purpose in writing this book was to start a conversation
reassessing the connection between these two Victorian movements. It seems to me at
this point, that I have clarified my justifications for my line of reasoning as labeling the
TS a ‘Spiritualist Movement’; however, exactly how successfully I have done in this
defence I leave up to the reader.
Comment by Garth Willey:
In proof reading this edition of Psypioneer, I noted well that there was an apparent
anomaly in Jeffrey Lavoie’s reply when he gave an obviously shortened Blavatsky
quote:
“I am a true, firm, if anything too exalted spiritualist… I have no greater
enemies in the world than spiritualists themselves, whose faith or rather
philosophy I would see spread throughout the world and become the only
and universal belief on earth…don’t represent me as an enemy of true
Spiritualism”
The apparent anomaly is that Blavatsky used a small ‘s’ for spiritualist’ and a capital ‘S’
in “true Spiritualism”. There is a considerable difference! A hobby horse of mine is
that one does not have to profess the faith of Spiritualism (and its defined Principles, all
be it no longer ‘with liberty of interpretation’) to be a spiritualist. Herein lies, I believe,
the nub of the matter: it probably was not an anomaly!
Lavoie reiterates the basic tenet of Spiritualism as being ‘spirit communications with
mediums’. Spirit communication via mediums is certainly the basic tenet of spiritualism
BUT, as a religion, Spiritualism’s basic tenet, its leading Principle, is surely the
existence of God. Maybe Lavoie has not observed that one will find only ‘spiritualism’
defined in most dictionaries, whereas the religion of ‘Spiritualism’ (with the capital ‘S’)
does not crack a mention – much to the chagrin of Spiritualists!
Theoretically, I conjecture, one could be an atheistic spiritualist; or one could be a
believer in spirit communication but a professed ‘non-Spiritualist’ if one is a Christian
(or of another religion); or one could be not a “Real Spiritualist” – as Edwin Butler
loved to express it – and then debate the disparate definitions; and of what might
constitute an Unreal Spiritualist! Sir Oliver Lodge, who is often claimed as a
“Spiritualist pioneer” by the Spiritualists, in a 1918 interview with The Strand
Magazine, when asked “…how Spiritualism stands today?” tactfully and honestly
replied “I can’t answer for Spiritualism. I don’t much like the word myself, except as a
155
term in Philosophy. In so far as Spiritualists constitute a sect, and hold religious services, I
don’t belong to it and have no sort of connection with it; though doubtless it attracts many
good people.”12
Taking up LP and JL’s analogy of the emergence of Christianity from Judaism, one
could say that all Spiritualists are spiritualists, but not all spiritualists are Spiritualists!
Blavatsky refers to herself as a ‘spiritualist’ – whereas, in the information available
herein, Lavoie refers to her as a ‘Spiritualist.’
Lavoie limits his study to the period 1875 to 1891. The major national Spiritualist
bodies had not been fully established during that period – conferences had been held
(over a couple of decades) and principles debated: and the Spiritualists’ National
Federation (UK) held its inaugural meeting in July 189013
– but ‘churches’ were
somewhat ‘individualistic’ (aren’t they still!). The point is: Spiritualism had not been
fully and categorically defined during the study period. The much looser terminology
‘spiritualist’ and ‘spiritualism’ may have been more appropriate throughout Lavoie’s
work rather than attributing our contemporary understanding of Spiritualism to The
Theosophical Society’s and Blavatsky’s origins.
Having started this note, there is another matter which crosses my mind. Psypioneer has
extensively studied the origins of the British Spiritualism’s Seven Principles but we
have not delved into the charter of the early Spiritualist organisations. Anyone
interested in another can of worms???
GAW
——§——
A NAME TO CONJURE WITH –
MADAME BLAVATSKY’S SPIRIT CALLING BOARD
Jeff Lavoie kindly has kindly drawn my attention to an attempt to market a mediumistic
device of which Madame Blavatsky would not have approved - a so-called “Spirit
Calling Board”. A brochure from Cosmic Vision Ltd of Allentown, Pennsylvania, also
the home of the Flying Saucer Project Museum and Alien Liaison Unit, engaged in
ancient wisdom archive and supply, was apparently produced in 1991(sic), claiming the
boards were salvaged from a warehouse in Houston, Texas.
Originally the Board sets supposedly carried a patent date of May 8 1891, the date of
Madame Blavatsky’s death, with instructions written by a “ Brother of Luxor” WQJ,
that is William Judge, Blavatsky’s loyal colleague in the United States. Needless to say
the real Judge was a strong opponent of mediumship.
The question arises if this board was known before 1991.
LP
12
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.8August08.pdf - page 207
13
SNU Year Book, 2009, page 4
156
BLAVATSKY NEWS – A REQUEST
We have more than once cited Blavatsky News, a recently established blog14
which is
very useful for alerting students to news of Madame Blavatsky. There is however, a
serious problem which blemishes an otherwise valuable enterprise. The authors of the
news items conceal themselves behind pseudonyms. And from time to time, they
criticise other workers in the field. Anonymous blog criticism can easily become a
dishonourable activity, not un-related to those individuals who post scurrilous
comments on internet forums. It is surely unworthy of Theosophists, of all people, who
seek to establish the nucleus of a human brotherhood, to fall below the highest
standards in this respect.
Anonymous criticism also generates suspicion and ill-will. It is like having a poison
pen writer in the community. Madame Blavatsky herself fearlessly put her name to
some very outspoken criticisms, even of powerful interests, when she thought it
justified. Why not follow her example?
LP
——§——
Notes By the Way:
DID MR MYERS BECOME A THEOSOPHIST?
In 1931, C. Bechhofer Roberts (known as “Ephesian”) published a biography of
Madame Blavatsky called The Mysterious Madame. (London, John Lane) It was what
Theosophists would call hostile. Perhaps not surprisingly it was warmly reviewed in
JSPR July 1931, the SPR having published a report which branded her an impostor in
1885.
The reviewer, Mr Salter (SPR hon. sec) however had some reservations; “… in dealing
with H.P.B.’s relations with the S.P.R. he is guilty of a few inaccuracies. F.W.H. Myers
was never “Professor” and we should like to know Mr Bechhofer Robert’s (sic-LP)
authority for the statement that he was at any time a theosophist.”
In JSPR October 1931 (p.138), Roberts replied. “Mr Salter’s first complaint is that I
suppose F.W.H. Myers to have been at one time a theosophist. Well, Madame
Blavatsky in her published letters to Sinnett (no. 61) refers to Myers as a theosophist;
and no less omniscient a personage than the Mahatma K.H. confirms this in his letters
to Sinnett (no. 83). Olcott refers to Myers’s resignation from the Theosophical Society
in Old Diary Leaves (3rd series, p.235). These three (or two) individuals were in a
position to know; and what is to the point in weighing their evidence, they had less to
gain than to lose by mentioning that Myers had been a theosophist.
14
http://blavatskynews.blogspot.co.uk/
157
“The second “inaccuracy” seems hardly worth inclusion in a serious review. It is that,
like many other writers, I called Myers a Professor. I plead guilty to this heinous
offence; Myers was technically a “Lecturer” at Cambridge and not a “Professor”.
Mr Salter responded in December 1931:
“SIR,—Before I wrote my review of Mr Roberts's book, I made inquiries
from persons who had been closely associated with F. W. H. Myers during
Madame Blavatsky’s lifetime, and was informed that though he, together
with some other members of the S.P.R., was at first favourably disposed
towards Madame Blavatsky, he had not at any time been a member of the
Theosophical Society. I therefore asked Mr Roberts for his authority for the
statement that he was at any time a Theosophist, and he refers me to
Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott, neither of whose testimony can, I
think, be considered of much weight. Further inquiries fully confirm the
information I had earlier received.
“Mr Roberts considers the description of Myers as a Professor too trivial an
inaccuracy to deserve attention. I do not believe that Mr Myers himself
would have so regarded it.”
Thus Mr Salter rejected the suggestion that Myers had been, at least for a time, a
Theosophist. I wonder if he actually looked at the books cited by Roberts. In the to-ing
and fro-ing of Blavatsky’s letters to Sinnett, which had lately been published (1925),
she had indeed discussed in a natural way whether or not Myers would like the replies
which were sent to an English FTS (i.e. to Myers) who had raised some metaphysical
points.15
Similarly, Olcott wrote in his published memoirs, based on his diaries, after the 1884
Coulomb exposure:
“After a residence of only five months, Mrs. Cooper Oakley found her
health suffering so much in India that about this time she had to leave us for
home under medical orders. Our loss has been the very great gain of the
London Headquarters, where, under a more bracing climate, she has done a
prodigious amount of work.
“Our London news of that week was more calming, as it appeared that,
besides Mr. F. W. H. Myers of the S.P.R., nobody had resigned his
membership.”
But there was a clash between the personal memories of un-named persons who had
known Myers (including possibly Mrs Sidgwick, and Myers’ wife Eveleen) and the
written contemporary evidence.
Mr Salter considered his information “fully confirmed” that Myers had never been a
Theosophist. In the 1980s, however, Janet Oppenheim was researching her book The
Other World (1985) and as she there noted, found in the Wren Library, Trinity College,
15
http://www.katinkahesselink.net/blavatsky/articles/v5/y1883_118.htm
158
Cambridge, the actual TS membership certificate of Myers which, incidentally, mis-
spelled his first name Frederic as “Frederick”.
Trevor Hamilton informs me the Myers papers, such as the TS certificate, were not
deposited at Cambridge by the Myers family until after the Second World War.
Nevertheless, was Mr Salter guilty of prejudice, not only against the Theosophists, but
also against Roberts, who was a mere writer? 16
LP
——§——
THEOSOPHICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA
Readers may recall that in November 2010 we published a review of a Theosophical
Encyclopedia. We welcome the announcement which we reprint below.
LP
Theosophical Encyclopedia on the Web:
The print edition of the Theosophical Encyclopedia was published in 2006 (Philip S.
Harris, Vicente R. Hao Chin, Jr., and Richard W. Brooks, eds. Theosophical
Encyclopedia. Quezon City, Philippines: Theosophical Publishing House, 2006. Pp. vii
+ 729). It was greeted with praise as “the most comprehensive single source of
Theosophical knowledge ever published,” with articles covering “a vast array of
different topics in useful depth.” Another reviewer recommended, “It would be good to
see this available online.”
The good news is that the recommended online version is now under preparation. A
new, expanded and even more improved version of the Theosophical Encyclopedia is
being edited by John Algeo (General Editor), Vicente Hao Chin Jr. (Associate Editor),
and Robert Ellwood (Consulting Editor). The expanded online edition will contain both
totally new articles and updates of those in the print edition. The print Theosophical
Encyclopedia is a compilation of 1,200 articles by 110 authors. The online version will
greatly exceed that, adding many new articles, all with sharp focus on Theosophical
relevance and comprehensive coverage.
——§——
16
http://www.modjourn.org/render.php?view=mjp_object&id=mjp.2005.01.003
159
WAS MADAME BLAVATSKY A BOOK MEMORY?
In our last issue, in discussing the valuable reprint of A Path Prepared about the work
of Mrs Isa Northage,17
we drew attention to a discovery by Garth Willey that the words
spoken by a communicator, Madame Blavatsky, were very similar to those recorded as
from her in Thirty Years among the Dead by Dr Carl Wickland. I suggested that a
typed copy taken from the Wickland book might have been accidentally included by the
compiler with a collection of Northage records.
An alternative explanation is that the Wickland book had been read by the medium, or
by a sitter in the Northage circle. There was a possible case of this with the automatist
Geraldine Cummins. She published a book The Fate of Col. Fawcett (1955) of
messages from the famous explorer who had disappeared in South America. In JSPR
March 1966,18
Simeon Edmunds drew attention to the similarities between some
passages in the Fawcett scripts and some actual articles by Fawcett, before his
disappearance, which had appeared in The Occult Review. Geraldine responded in JSPR
September in what had become a heated debate (understandably fanned by Psychic
News, April 23 1966!)
“I never to my knowledge read the passage in the Occult Review
published in it in 1923 by the living Colonel Fawcett. But Miss Gibbes
[companion to Miss Cummins] was a very keen investigator and therefore
read all she could find about him. It is quite probable that in 1948 Miss
Gibbes conveyed telepathically to myself the passage from the 1923 Fawcett
article, when I was writing automatically. For this there may even be a
special reason. In the Fawcett article there is a passage about obtaining extra
vitality from trees. When I was a weak and delicate girl of eleven I wanted
to join in the lively games of my four elder brothers, all strong. I used often,
when alone, to clasp the most ancient of the trees, imploring each ‘Mr Tree,
please make me strong!’ This memory might have served the discarnate Col.
Fawcett as a ‘link’ for knitting into his postmortem account of Brazil some
of what he had written in that article; at any rate the passages quoted fitted
in well with what came both before and after, for the insertion is a sequence
and not scattered as Mr Edmunds seems to imply by speaking of 'scripts' in
the plural.”
In contrast, the Northage material from Blavatsky echoes the Wickland messages in a
close but disorganised way, sometimes substituting different words for the same
concept. Readers should compare the passages in the two books, and reach their own
conclusion.
LP
——§——
17
See Psypioneer Volume 8, No.4:—Remarkable Phenomena in Nottingham – Book Review by Leslie
Price, pages 128-129:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.4April2012.pdf
18
JSPR – Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
160
THE MYSTERY OF STAINTON MOSES
Introductory Note by LP: The 1992 centenary of the death of Stainton Moses passed
largely unnoticed, but at the SPR conference of that year, which I was unable to attend,
Miss Mary Rose Barrington kindly read a paper I had written about him. This paper was
published in 1999 as a slim booklet, and is reproduced below. A few copies of this and
other Psychic Pioneer Publications are available from Psypioneer Journal. The paper is
prefaced by some introductory remarks No attempt has been made to update the paper,
and readers will note, not without melancholy, that several organisations mentioned
have since expired.
At the end of the paper is an announcement about a lecture to the SPR in June
2012 which will deal with some further mysteries!
——§——
Stainton Moses was the first President, in 1884, of the body now called
the College of Psychic Studies.
Leslie Price is a former Librarian of the College of Psychic Studies.
This paper was presented at the 1992 International Conference of the
Society for Psychical Research.
First published December 1999
Published by
PSYCHIC PIONEER PUBLICATIONS,
15 Clouston Close WALLINGTON
Surrey
SM6 8LX
ISBN 0 9536719 1 7
INTRODUCTION
Stainton Moses was the most influential medium in late Victorian England. The
centenary of his death in September 1992 coincided with the annual conference of the
Society for Psychical Research, of which in 1882 he had been a founder Vice-President.
Though I was unable to attend, the conference kindly permitted a paper to be read in
absentia, here reproduced.
Lacking as it does proper references, the paper is not worthy of journal publication,
but it may assist enquirers. I have not attempted to update the material, but prospects for
further research into Stainton Moses's work are now excellent.
161
The main reason for this is that the College of Psychic Studies in London has begun
a project to catalogue carefully and preserve all their archives. Though this means that
their large collection of Moses material is temporarily unavailable, in the long term the
College may at last achieve the goal of Mr Trethewy, an earlier student, of issuing the
full records.
In July 1999, the journal Theosophical History published John Hamill’s paper on
Moses and Masonry. There are known to be references to Masonry (among other
matters) in letters from Moses preserved by the Theosophical Society at Adyar, and this
is one of a number of archives that could contribute much to our understanding of his
work.
Although I recognise the importance of Stainton Moses, I do not always agree with
his views, nor for that matter with those of his sparring partner Madame Blavatsky, and
in March 1998 The Christian Parapsychologist published my paper “Spirit Teachings”,
which offered a Christian critique of the medium and his messages.
The Noah’s Ark Society is a Spiritualist body based in England which promotes
physical mediumship, and it has republished on its web site material about Stainton
Moses from its journal. Historians of psychical research will be grateful for what the
NAS has rescued from the past, and want to follow its expanding programme.
Unfortunately the hope that it would provide new scientific evidence of physical
mediumship, apparent in my paper, has yet to be realised.
The Psychic Pioneer web site launched in 1999 expects to feature Stainton Moses
quite prominently, and it is advisable to consult it regularly for news of scholarship;
likewise the sites of the College of Psychic Studies and of Theosophical History.
Another web development is the appearance of complete books such as Spirit
Teachings and More Spirit Teachings (though the latter selection may still be in
copyright). Despite the web, there is still a demand for traditional books and the notable
success of the Spiritualists National Union (SNU) book republishing programme for
pioneers (see the SNU web site) will I hope lead to Stainton Moses’s inclusion.
In 1992 the first steps were taken to end the Cold War between the SPR and
Spiritualism. SNU Leaders such as Eric Hatton, and researchers including Professor
Archie Roy, Professor Arthur Ellison and Professor David Fontana, played important
parts. The SNU and SPR even co-operated in the emergence of PRISM, a group to
promote research with mediums. The war was over. I believe that Stainton Moses
would be pleased at this new spirit.
LESLIE PRICE
162
THE MYSTERY OF STAINTON MOSES
(Paper presented in absentia to SPR conference, Manchester College Oxford,
4 September 1992)
The passing of Stainton Moses on 5 September 1892, precisely a century ago, was
deeply felt in English Spiritualism, for whom he was “the foremost champion in this
country of the doctrine of Spiritualism properly so called: the system of philosophy
which ascribed the phenomena in general to the agency of spirits of dead men and
women, and believed in the advent, under spirit guidance, of a worldwide religion.”19
The death came a few weeks after that of Col. Bundy, editor of the leading American
psychic paper, The Religio-Philosophical Journal, with whom Moses had once
corresponded about mediums for research. Stainton Moses had been editor of Light,
President of the London Spiritualist Alliance, and a founder Vice-President of the
Society for Psychical Research. Under the pseudonym ‘M.A. (Oxon.)’, while teaching
English by day at University College School, London, he produced copious high-quality
journalism on mediumship and the problems of Spiritualism, where his sympathies lay
with the moderate Christian and upper-class London centres, rather than the plebian
provincial militant radicals of the movement. He had been personally associated with
the rise and fall of several psychic groups since he began his own investigations in
1872.
But Moses, son of a Lincolnshire grammar school headmaster and once a clergyman,
had aspects to his life which made his friend F. W. H. Myers describe it as “one of the
most extraordinary which our century has seen.”20
He developed mediumship, and
received messages from biblical worthies, Greek philosophers, English historical
characters and modern people, some of whom he had not known in life. His main guide,
the prophet Malachi but given the pseudomym Imperator, claimed that the teachings so
conveyed were part of a plan inspired by Jesus to take divine revelation further. This
material is recognizably a forerunner of the New Age Movement.
Stainton Moses also produced, chiefly in a small circle with friends in the 1870s, a
variety of physical phenomena, including perfumes and bell-sounds. He is perhaps the
only SPR Vice-President to have had such powers, though he resigned all connection
with the Society on 18 November 1886 in a letter published in JSPR December 1886,
p.488.
History’s response to Stainton Moses has been mixed. Myers accepted his good faith
and attributed to their meeting a considerable influence. “That evening was epoch-
making in Gurney’s life and mine”.21
Perhaps then, as Guy Playfair suggested in The
Indefinite Boundary, Moses encouraged in his friends the search which led to the
foundation of the SPR, and which they might otherwise have given up in disgust. (No
Moses, no SPR?) After the medium had died, Myers compiled a report, almost a book,
“The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses” published in SPR Proceedings IX, pp. 245-
19
Frank Podmore, Studies in Psychical Research, p.38, 1897
20
Human Personality, Vol 2, pp. 225-6
21
Human Personality, Vol. 2, p.223
163
352 and XI, pp. 24113. Myers accepted that the evidence of identity furnished to Moses
by most communicators was poor, although there were several who seemed to go
beyond reference books and newspaper obituaries that might have been seen by the
medium. Moses was especially impressed by the case of Abraham Florentine, an
obscure American spirit, but also much discussed was Blanche Abercromby, whose real
name appears to have been Lady Kate Amberley, and who died on Sunday 28 June
1874, communicating that evening.
Frank Podmore, Myers’s colleague, was scathing about the religious content of the
spirit teachings, which he suggested was shallow liberal theism quite familiar to any
clergyman, and he exposed additional deficiencies in the evidence of identity. Podmore
was quite ready to entertain the idea that, consciously or unconsciously, Stainton Moses
fabricated the physical phenomena.22
A similar verdict, of course, had already been
offered in 1885 for the case of Madame Blavatsky, who also produced perfumes and
bell-sounds. The Podmore approach has generally prevailed in the SPR, exemplified by
Mrs Sidgwick and Mr Salter, although Continental researchers like Richet and Sudre
were more tolerant of the physical phenomena.
Mr Salter, while acknowledging that the Moses mediumship was a turning point the
in the history of mediumship, thought the controls were dramatizations of aspects of the
medium’s subconscious:—
The primary consideration was, I think, that only through the Controls
could he effectively fulfil his mission of giving to the world the philosophy
embodied in the Spirit Teachings dictated by them. They provided a
multiple alias for the expression of views formed by him over many years,
which it would have been impossible to reconcile with the doctrines of the
Church of England of which he was a priest, though he no longer had a cure
of souls. Moreover these opinions were more likely to impress the world if
they issued over the names of a host of saints and sages than they would
have done if he had claimed to be their author. A secondary motive may
have been that in the company of the saints and sages he obtained welcome
relief from the dull routine of a schoolmaster’s life, diversified otherwise
only by frequent bouts of illness. Perhaps “Little Dicky” [a child
communicator who briefly and mischievously appeared-LP] was a relief
from too many saints and sages.23
Moses, however, did not welcome the claims to high status of his controls, and
concurred with their desire that their identity should not be disclosed with the teachings.
Like many other mediums, he could have put the message across with just one supposed
guide rather than a big team, and one may wonder if Salter does justice to the
complexity of communicators.
22
See, in addition to Studies in Psychical Research, the chapter on Moses in his Modern Spiritualism,
Vol. 2, 1902
23
Zoar, p.116, 1962
164
Dr G. K. Nelson observed in Spiritualism and Society (1969):—
In view of the diversity of phenomena and beliefs there is not and cannot
be any generally agreed body of beliefs amongst spiritualists. The nearest
we can get to this is probably contained in a book called Spirit Teachings by
the Rev. W. Stainton Moses. This book was produced by Stainton Moses as
the result of communications he received through automatic writing. It has
been described as the “bible” of Spiritualism.24
Emma Hardinge Britten said in Nineteenth-Century Miracles (1884), in her
generally eulogistic style about co-workers:—
One of the most esteemed and gifted writers in the ranks of Spiritualism
is the gentleman known by the nom de plume of “M.A. (Oxon.)” Amongst
this truly inspired author’s collected writings, the most popular are the four
volumes entitled severally, Psychography; Spirit Identity; The Higher
Aspects of Spiritualism; and Spirit Teachings. Nothing in the whole realm of
occult literature can surpass the deep insight and profound mastery of
Spiritualistic problems, manifested in these works. And yet they are but a
small part of “M. A. (Oxon)’s” contributions. His fine magazine and
journalistic articles are to be found in most of the high-toned periodicals of
the last few years, whilst his well-known signature invariably attracts every
thoughtful reader who desires to be instructed, as well as interested.25
Mr Podmore, in his Studies, p.38, notes:—
The inspired writings of Mr Stainton Moses form the gospel of modern
English Spiritualism.
These testimonies could be multiplied, and it is therefore with some surprise that one
learns from the Atlantis Bookshop that nothing by Stainton Moses is in print, except for
a spirally-bound edition of Spirit Teachings.
Now this paper is not intended to be a purely antiquarian contribution. In my view,
Stainton Moses has much to teach us today, rather more in some ways than Mrs Piper,
who never professed to have any general ideas on the implications of her phenomena. It
is unfortunate that when A. W. Trethewy, after the First World War, prepared for
publication a complete record of the communications received by Stainton Moses, it
was possible to issue this in abbreviated form only. (The Controls of Stainton Moses,
London, Hurst & Blackett, 1923, which disclosed for the first time in a book the
identity of Imperator and his colleagues.) Trethewy might well have been the last
person to give long thought to understanding the Moses mediumship, and to read
through the surviving records. The Librarian of the CPS, however, who has been of
immense help in tracing material, has drawn my attention to the paper by Constance
Sitwell on “Unpublished records of Stainton Moses”26
in which she says:—
24
p. 209
25
pp. 202-3
26
Light, Dec. 1957
165
I borrowed these volumes, and have been absorbed in them, for I do feel
that they are among the most remarkable things I ever came across. These
records seem to me to be an encyclopaedia of spiritualism, almost the
classics of the subject.27
It is desirable that those full records be now published. Had Dr Medhurst been
spared, he might have taken further the valuable accounts of Stainton Moses and
contemporary physical mediums which he contributed to Light from 1963.
When the idea of an SPR was mooted, Moses was doubtful, as Janet Oppenheim
discovered (The Other World), yet he gave his support and was at first positive about its
work. But the researchers soon ran into difficulties in locating physical mediums with
whom to research, though they were able to sit with Eglinton, who by then was
specializing in slate-writing mediumship.
Eglinton is a somewhat mysterious figure, and it is a tragedy that the recent passing
of Mr Mostyn Gilbert, who had made a special study of him, deprives us of his final
verdict, which I understand had become negative. The predominant SPR view, typified
and expressed by Mrs Sidgwick, was that Eglinton was a fraud. Stainton Moses did not
feel that the Society was being fair to the evidence, and resigned. Mrs Sidgwick was not
sorry to see him and a few other Spiritualists go.
The history of psychical research is punctuated by rows—what was so special about
this one? It marked the end of significant co-operation between the research community
and the Spiritualist movement. Subsequently, individual researchers established good
relations from time to time, such as Dr Crawford with the Goligher circle in Belfast, and
there were some successful investigations of individual mediums, but the respective
institutions were seldom in touch. Mrs Sidgwick, who found the emotional and
religious approach of Spiritualism uncongenial, was not bothered by the loss of
temperamental colleagues, who had mostly failed, by 1886 at least, to get the SPR
access to the remarkable physical phenomena reported in psychic papers.
It may be that, by that time, Stainton Moses had become difficult to work with; that
he was proud, even vain, not familiar with scientific procedure, failing in memory,
unsympathetic to the emerging complexities of the subliminal self and racked by ill-
health, such as gout, depression and even (as Arthur Lillie suggested, though more
likely at an earlier time) obsession, which caused him to be irritable and to seek comfort
in drink. But the testimonies of those who knew him best, as Podmore did not, suggest a
quite outstanding person. As Nellie I. Shaw put it in Light:—28
It is doubtful whether, viewed in years to come, even one of our present-
day exponents will rank on the same level with this great Spiritualist of last
century, great in his character and action, great in the demonstration of his
mediumship, as in his message: a true Spiritualist in the full meaning of the
name.29
27
p.105
28
“William Stainton Moses, 1839-1892”, April 1944
29
p.104
166
But in the mid-1880s, the Spiritualists felt disappointment that the SPR did not
endorse them, and leading researchers clearly did not accept their word about particular
experiences which they had witnessed. With the subsequent development of Spiritualist
denominational bodies such as the SNU and GWCSL, the two worlds of psychical
research and Spiritualism drifted further apart.
It is perhaps worth pointing out that Stainton Moses, though a spiritual seeker, and
ready to accept, in his essays on The Higher Aspects of Spiritualism, that the movement
would undergo much change as it developed, never attempted to create Spiritualist
churches. He did hope briefly that Freemasonry might provide a spiritual focus, but
soon found, as John Hamill has lately described (in a paper to appear in Theosophical
History), that the ban on religious discussion and the consumption of six-course dinners
frustrated this. He was interested too in the new Theosophical Society, founded in New
York in 1875 by Madame Blavatsky, Col. Olcott and others. His guides were at first
appreciative of the Russian lady, but when she challenged the source of his
communications, he resigned from the New York T.S., and for the rest of his life was
obliged to argue against Theosophical interpretations of mediumship; though he felt that
the SPR report on Theosophical phenomena did not do them justice. The 1986 Harrison
critique of the Hodgson findings has supported Moses in that.
There was a time between the world wars when it looked as if psychical researchers
would establish the reality and nature of physical mediumship, but for reasons that
remain obscure, research reports with such mediums largely ceased. This was I believe
a great pity and if it was due in part to a desire to achieve greater respectability for the
subject, by avoiding the sort of controversies that bedevilled the Margery case and
others, it did not work. The aggressive sceptics have been inflamed rather than mollified
by the ground surrendered, and psychical research has slipped back in several respects,
including the health of the SPR. It is good to note that the present editor of the SPR
Journal has been generous in space for physical mediumship, not least in the latest issue
(July 1992), where there are two papers on Palladino and one on Kluski.
Stainton Moses was fervently opposed to dark seances with cabinets, which had led
to doubts and charges, but he was not against physical mediumship as such, despite the
warnings by his spirit teachers that the entities involved in such phenomena were not to
be trusted. Of course the rest of the Spiritualist movement paid little attention to him
(and D. D. Home) in their rejection of dark seances and cabinets, and as late as the
1980s were still reaping the harvest that such methods bring. Moses argued that the sort
of people convinced by such evidence were not worth convincing.
The recent foundation of the Noah’s Ark Society, to revive physical mediumship,
shows a way ahead. The Society offers a sympathetic environment for the development
of such phenomena. But it has already acquired the infra-red video equipment which
can make the darkness no longer dark, and put behind us the era when attempts were
made to control mediums by holding hands. The NAS may be able to do what was not
possible in 1886 when Moses left the other society, the SPR.
Finally, let us look again at the supposed spirit origin of the teachings received from
Imperator. Much has been learnt since those days about spurious messages. Charles
Richet spoke for most researchers:—
167
The human mind is very prone to create a personality. The phenomenon
is the same whether it proceeds from external suggestion, from some
exterior event, or from autosuggestion. It is not metapsychic, but pertains to
normal psychology: and when subconscious actions take place they group
themselves round the personality that has been created.30
Theodore Flournoy, speaking specifically, pointed out:—
Very intelligent, well-read, having traveled, it is difficult to believe that
Moses had never been shaken in the narrowness of his orthodoxy by interior
doubts in this contact with different minds. These doubts, suppressed in
some measure by his constancy and obstinacy, must have accumulated in
the subconscious mind and become organized into a system of affirmation,
very different from his primitive beliefs, and finally attained a degree of
tension sufficient to cause their irruption in his trances. These were
stimulated by the suggestions of the environment, and plenty of time was
allowed for the necessary subconscious elaboration.31
On the other hand, Myers and Trethewy, who read the Moses records in full, clearly
gave them more weight than most parapsychologists do today. Researchers who think
they have witnessed genuine physical phenomena with various mediums will obviously
have less difficulty with parallel events in the Moses circle than those who do not so
think; similarly the people likely to be convinced that Moses was spirit-guided in his
written messages and trance orations may be those who accept the Spiritualist outlook
already. So the final status of the Stainton Moses material is unlikely to be settled until
the survival problem is resolved, a matter to which I hope to return in a lecture to the
SPR on new developments in survival research on November 12.
It is also possible that demons were involved in the phenomena, especially the
physical ones; certainly low entities were frequently said to be lurking around Moses
and other mediums seeking to make mischief. Against these perils, his guides were
trying to protect him. Many Christians would go further. The late Canon J. Stafford
Wright, one of the few Evangelical members of SPR, wrote:—
There is nothing more tragic for an evangelical Christian than a book Spirit
Teachings 1883) in which the Rev. Stainton Moses gives the communications
which gradually drew him away from the basic truths of the Christian faith.32
Of these truths the atoning death of Jesus Christ was especially denied. A Bible
Christian would have no difficulty in finding suspect factors in the life of the medium,
such as the use of alcohol and tobacco, initiation into Masonry, theosophy and other
occult groups, separation from the Christian fellowship and breakdown in mental and
30
Thirty Years of Psychical Research, p.71, 1923
31
Spiritism and Psychology, pp. 141-2, American edition, 1911
32
Spiritualism, Vine Books, revised edition 1977
168
physical health, though Stainton Moses in his last months affirmed acceptance of the
Bible as the source of Truth, without however repudiating his psychic work.33
It is clear that several groups of people have an interest in Stainton Moses, and this
reflected in the surviving documentation. Stainton Moses once estimated his letters at
3000 a year. There are unpublished letters in the Theosophical Society archives at
Adyar; in Freemason’s Hall, London; in the SPR and other psychic organizations; and
probably in the extensive Bundy papers in Chicago. Among the long papers on psychic
subjects, even in 1893 Myers noted that Moses’s Researches in Spiritualism, was “an
unfinished work published in Human Nature—a periodical now extinct—in 1874-5, and
not reprinted. It is now difficult of access.” Moses also contributed important
discussions of psychic and theosophical matters to Psychological Review, which
flourished from 1878-1883, to some extent filling a gap left by Human Nature (1867-
78). It goes without saying that there is also much in Light. I am informed by John
Cooper, who is editing the letters of Madame Blavatsky, that a hundred letters by her
have lately been discovered in Russia, and these may well throw light on her connection
with Stainton Moses, as well as her own case.
I hope there may be some interest in making more generally available the writings of
this pioneer, who was, I suggest, the most intelligent or educated seer between
Swedenborg and Rudolf Steiner. It is acknowledged that today interest is more in the
New Age and the controlled study of psi, but in the history of psychic studies, the
questions raised by this case have yet to be answered. As Myers concluded his account
of The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses:—
And when all is done there will remain a mystery which neither our
belief shall comprehend nor our incredulity unravel.34
——§——
SPR LECTURE
The Secret Life of Stainton Moses by LESLIE PRICE
This lecture will focus on a number of mysteries in the life of Moses, and
attempt to explain them.
This is an anniversary year for Moses who began to investigate mediumship in
1872 and died in 1892.
When:
14th June 2012 – 6:30 PM
Lecture Hall of the Kensington Central Library
Campden Hill Road
Kensington, London, W8 7RX
33
Light, memorial issue, 1892
34
Proc SPR. IX, 352
169
SPIRITUALISM CAUSED DISORDER
AT SWEDENBORG SOCIETY
In our issue of May 2006, I called attention to
“The Problem of Swedenborg” for students of the
pioneers.35
The study of that problem has been
greatly assisted by the Swedenborg Society in
London, founded in 1810. Now a full account of
its history has been written by Richard Lines, the
Secretary of the Society.36
The main business of the society has always been
to publish the works of Swedenborg, especially
English translations from the Latin, but its
collateral publications and library are also of
immense help to the student.
Several persons eminent in psychical investigation
have served as president of the Swedenborg
Society, including Sir William Barrett (1913),
Baron Palmstierna (1937) and David Lorimer
(1999-2001). But in 1860 objections by more
orthodox members to the sale from the premises of Spiritualist literature by the then
manager of the Society, William White led to a dramatic legal case. At one stage, hired
pugilists seized the building. White was supported by William Wilkinson, until then the
secretary of the society, and founder of The Spiritual Magazine in January 1860.37
Richard Lines gives the first full account in book form of the 1860 imbroglio. He has
since presented more details in a paper for the Bloomsbury project.38
Even that is not
the last word, because in 2012 library staff at the society are cataloguing the mass of
newspaper articles, pamphlets, case papers, and correspondence generated by the case,
as part of the new on-line catalogue of the library and archives, available to the public.39
We may sometimes wonder which account of the next world has been most widely
published: in their day Life Beyond the Veil (Vale Owen), Road to Immortality
(Geraldine Cummins) or Testimony of Light (Helen Greaves) have enjoyed a wide
35
Psypioneer Volume 2, No. 5:—The Problem of Swedenborg - Leslie Price, pages 102-104:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/2.5%20PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
36
Richard Lines:—A History of the Swedenborg Society 1810-2010, London, South Vale Press, 2012:
ISBN 978-1-4710-1274-7. An earlier account was Freda G. Griffith “The Swedenborg Society 1810-
1960” London, 1960.
37
Some reference works speak of the magazine being founded towards the end of 1860, but a full year of
issues was produced:—http://www.iapsop.com/archive/materials/spiritual_magazine_uk/
38
Bloomsbury Project:—http://www.ucl.ac.uk/bloomsbury-project/articles/events/
39
The Swedenborg Society Library:—http://www.swedenborg.org.uk/library
170
readership. Consider however, some figures presented in this book. In 1938, the
Penguin edition of Heaven and Hell by Swedenborg was of 25,000 copies. (p.112) For
some years the society had a fruitful relationship with Dent’s Everyman’s Library. Four
books by Swedenborg appeared in the series, including Heaven and Hell. 20,000 copies
of The True Christian Religion were printed in this edition (p.107) and 21,000 copies
for the second printing (p.111).
I would suggest that Heaven and Hell is by far the most widely circulated description of
after death states. No wonder that Alfred Russel Wallace is quoted as saying that
Swedenborg was one of the twenty greatest men that the world had produced.40
LP
——§——
Leslie Curnow’s Historical Survey continued: written in 1924 for The Two Worlds,
serialised weekly. In November 2011 issue,41
we published the first part; the second
part was published in last month’s issue.42
The full serialisation will now continue in
Psypioneer, some of this material will cover well-trodden ground for readers, but it also
brings forth much long forgotten material.
The Physical Phenomena of the Past
An Historical Survey
The Two Worlds:—43
Movement of Objects Without Contact
“A Hitherto Unrecognised Force”
By W. Leslie Curnow, B.A.
FARADAY, who died in 1876, is reported to have manifested at many Spiritualist
circles since that date. I have often wondered—if, indeed, it were he—whether that was
a form of pious expiation on his part for one crowning silliness in the life of a great
scientist. I mean his “proof” by means of his toy machine constructed to show that all
table movements at seances were due to Unconscious Muscular Action. He knew
nothing of movement without contact, which, of course, entirely upset all his pretty
theories.
Faraday is one among many scientists who have cut a sorry figure in their contact
with psychic phenomena. Dr. W. B. Carpenter, F.R.S., who came such a cropper over
his attempt to upset the evidence for Home’s famous window levitation, is another. So,
too, Sir David Brewster (who said “Spirit is the last thing I will give in to”) was neatly
40
Who Are the Twenty Greatest Men?:—http://people.wku.edu/charles.smith/wallace/S691A.htm
41
See Volume 7, No.11, pages 349-355:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.11November2011.pdf
42
See Volume 8, No.4, pages 132-138:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.4April2012.pdf
43
The Two Worlds, October 24, 1924, pages front and p. 590
171
exposed by a letter of his published after his death by his daughter, Mrs. Gordon, in her
book, The Home Life of Sir David Brewster, where he privately admits the phenomena
with Home which in public he denounced. Huxley, who wrote “Supposing the
phenomena to be genuine, they do not interest me,” and others might be cited.
The evidence is over whelming that spirit operators are able to use forces of which
we know nothing. Mr. F. W. H. Myers speaks of “transcendental chemistry.” But
whatever it is, at least we know that there is a mysterious force at work, and that that
force is controlled by intelligence. In the present article we propose to deal with its
manifestation in moving objects without contact.
Physical phenomena are rare nowadays, because mediumship has changed to higher
forms, or at least has gone from the physical to the mental plane. In proof of this
observe the character of present-day psychic books. In the old days, when an
investigator was seeking for evidence it was a common remark, “I sent him to the
Marshalls,” meaning the two Mary Marshalls,44
wonderful mediums, who did a great
work. From 1850 to 1880 there was an extraordinary outflow of powerful mediums,
such as, to name a few, the three Fox Sisters, the Koons, the Davenports (brothers and
sisters), the Eddys, D. D. Home, Henry Slade, Eusapia Palladino, Madame d’Esperance,
William Eglington, Mrs. Everitt, and William Stainton Moses. Marvellous phenomena
were witnessed with them.
PERSONAL EXPERIENCES.
I have attended seances with three mediums with whom objects were moved without
human contact. They were all dark seances, but the conditions were as satisfactory as
could be arranged in the circumstances. In the first with the Thomas Brothers, from
Wales, Will Thomas was very securely bound, and had been searched before the
proceedings began. A tambourine floated about the circle, touching various sitters. Tom
Thomas, who was among the sitters, drew the attention of White Eagle, the control, to
myself and asked that I should be favoured with a special manifestation. White Eagle
inquired the exact position I was in, and then almost immediately a coat was flung into
my lap. At the close of the séance, when the electric light was turned on, the medium
was found to be roped in the same way as at the start, but he was without his coat. It had
been taken off his back without disturbing the roping and had travelled in the dark to
my lap, a distance of about ten feet.
My next experience was with Evan Powell at the British College on April 11th,
1923.45
With this remarkable medium many phases of phenomena were manifested at
the one sitting. We had Spirit Lights, the Direct Voice, and movement of objects. My
face was brushed by spirit drapery, and a flower was placed in my hand. It should be
mentioned that Evan Powell had been securely tied with rope, all the knots being
covered with sealing wax, and his thumbs tied with cotton. At the close all these
fixtures were found entirely unaltered. A small table was lifted out of the cabinet and
44
See Psypioneer Volume 7, No.11:—Mrs. Mary Marshall- Paul J. Gaunt, pages 355-362:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.11November2011.pdf
45
See Psypioneer Volume 7, No.7:—Evan Powell’s Mediumship - Leslie Curnow, pages 226-227:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.7July2011.pdf
172
pressed against a lady sitter, whose handbag was taken from her and placed on the table.
My third experience must be told in another chapter, that on Apports.
STAINTON MOSES
The mediumship of Stainton Moses furnished many instances of movements without
contact. On one occasion, when he was visiting a gentleman interested in psychic
matters, a small pillar work-table filled with needlework had been lightly touched, and
began to move. It danced about “like a live thing,” first on one foot and then on another,
and finally lay down on the floor. “It rose again unaided, bounded off the floor, and
waltzed round the room. When it was still I held my hand over it, and it began to quiver,
and finally rose from the floor until it touched my hand, which was ten or twelve inches
above it.” Stainton Moses adds the curious fact that while this was going on a column of
light was visible over the table.
On another occasion he called on a friend, and a sitting was proposed, but when they
tried there was no result. They drew back from the table, and the host asked how it was
that nothing had occurred. At this moment the table, which was untouched, rose and
gently touched Stainton Moses on the throat and chest three times. At the time he had
severe bronchial trouble, and this table movement was intended to indicate that he was
in no fit state to hold a sitting. Here we see intelligence coupled with movement of an
object without contact.
This medium preserved records of six cases in which a light table, and one in which
a dining table large enough to seat eight people, followed the movement of his hands as
he made passes over them. In broad daylight he as able to keep a table in an abnormal
position by holding his hands over it, but with no contact. Mr. Sergeant Cox, in his
book What Am I? relates a striking incident that happened at his residence in Russell
Square on June 2nd, 1873. He says that a “personal friend” called to dress for a dinner
party to which they were both invited. It was six o’clock, and broad daylight, and the
friend (who, we know from other sources, was Stainton Moses) was sitting reading The
Times with one arm resting on the table. Loud rappings came on the table, and it began
to quiver and sway about. It was nine feet long by six feed broad, and was resting on a
heavy Turkey carpet. A subsequent trial showed that it took the united efforts of two
strong men to move it. Serjeant Cox suggested that with such power present it would be
a good opportunity to make a trial of motion without contact.
“Accordingly we stood upright, he on one side of the table, I on the other side of it.
We stood two feet from it, and had our hands eight inches above it. In one minute it
rocked violently. Then it moved over the carpet a distance of seven inches. Then it rose
three inches from the floor on the side on which my friend was standing. Then it rose
equally on my side. Finally my friend held his hands four inches over the end of the
table and asked that it would rise and touch his hand three times. It did so, and then, in
accordance with the like request, it rose to my hand held at the other end to the same
height above it, and in the same manner.”
173
THE EDITOR OF THE SPIRITUALIST
Mr. W. H. Harrison, who was Editor of The Spiritualist (that fine periodical which
ran from 1869 to 1881), has related many interesting incidents of his early experiences
in his little book, Spirit People (1875). He was led to investigate Spiritualism by
discovering that Cromwell Fleetwood Varley, F.R.S., the famous electrician and
engineer to the North Atlantic Telegraph Company, was a Spiritualist. At a séance at
Mr. Varley’s house at Beckenham, Kent, on May 24th, 1868, in the presence of himself
and Mr. and Mrs. Varley, a table with their fingers lightly touching it, laid itself down
and moved along the floor. Then the hands were removed, and after several attempts the
table lifted itself up. On Jun 26th Mr. Varley took Mr. Harrison to a séance with Mrs.
Mary Marshall. Mr. Harrison writes: “While we were sitting round the table I heard a
lumbering noise behind me, and on looking round saw the great six-foot table running
up to us all by itself. After taking a run of about four feet it rested with its edge against
the edge of the little table round which we were sitting.” A good example of
unexpected, spontaneous movement was when a table in the nursery at Mr. Varley’s
house was twisted round while the children were playing near it. They were frightened,
and came downstairs and told what had happened. A sitting was held, and spirits said
they wanted the Varley circle to meet in the nursery instead of downstairs, and that was
why they called attention to the room.
Sir William Crookes mentions that on many occasions he witnessed heavy bodies,
such as table, chairs and sofas, moving when no one was touching them. His own chair
was twisted partly round, while his feet were off the floor. A chair was seen by all
present to move slowly up to the table from a far corner of the room. An armchair
moved up to him, and then retired at his request, and on three successive evenings a
small table moved slowly across the room, without contact, under special test
conditions. Sir William also had several repetitions of the movement of a heavy table in
full light, with the sitters kneeling on their chairs, which had their backs turned to the
table. As this experiment was considered conclusive by the Committee of the London
Dialectical Society, let us glance at their account.
EXPERIMENT WITH THE DIALECTICAL SOCIETY
On January 6th, 1869, the London Dialectical Society resolved to appoint a
Committee to investigate and report on “the Phenomena alleged to be Spiritual
Manifestations.” The historic Report of this Committee of thirty-three persons, the
majority of whom were thorough sceptics, should be read by every Spiritualist. It is a
wonderful mine of information, and a very impressive document. The members heard
evidence from competent witnesses, but they also investigated for themselves. For this
purpose they divided themselves into six sub-committees, and it is with the evidence of
one of these sub-committees that I am now concerned.
Eleven members turned the backs of their chairs to a heavy dining table, knelt on the
chairs and rested their hands on the backs of the chairs. There was a good light, and any
contact with the table would have been at once detected. In less than a minute the table,
untouched, moved four times, at first about five inches to one side, then about twelve
inches to the opposite side. These sceptical gentlemen then examined the table and took
it to pieces, without finding anything to account for the phenomena. There was full
gaslight over the table throughout. The Report says, “Altogether your Sub-committee
174
have witnessed upwards of fifty similar motions without contact on eight different
evenings, in the houses of members of your Sub-committee, the most careful tests being
applied to each occasion.” In conclusion they reported the “unanimous opinion” that
motion may be produced in solid bodies without material contact. As to the operative
cause, they would only say that it was “some hitherto unrecognised force.”
As with the other Phenomena we are considering in this series, the field is so vast
that much must pass without reference. For instance, the movement of objects without
contact occurred very frequently with D. D. Home. Then we have said nothing of
musical instruments, though they will be dealt with in a chapter devoted to Music. Nor
have we touched on those noisy demonstrations known as Poltergeist phenomena,
where stones and objects of every description are hurled about in an apparently aimless
way. In our two succeeding chapters on Apports and Levitation we shall have to
chronicle further movement of objects.
A TRIUMPH FOR THE FOX GIRLS
Let me close with a touching story. Stand by the spirit people and they will stand by
you, was the experience of many of the pioneers, and many are able to say the same to-
day. When in 1849 the Fox girls obeyed the spirit behest and submitted their Raps to the
cold scrutiny of a public meeting,46
the audiences appointed special committees to
investigate the girls privately. They got through the first and second of these private
tests successfully, much to the chagrin of many people. At the next public meeting the
audience selected what was known as the Infidel Committee, because it contained the
most confirmed opponents in Rochester (U.S.A), where the meetings were held. The
Committee of “scientific infidels,” as Leah Underhill calls them, appointed three ladies
to disrobe the Fox girls and clothe them in fresh garments of their own selection, after
which the gentlemen locked the doors and told the girls to “carry on” and produce their
“ghosts.” No manifestations were forthcoming. As it was near dinner time, the
gentlemen proposed they should go home for dinner, suggesting that later on there
might be better success, but really meaning that the girls would have had the chance of
preparing themselves. The girls refused to leave the hall, upon which the committee
ordered dinner to be brought there. Let Leah Underhill (The Missing Link, etc., page 69)
tell the rest:—
“A sumptuous dinner was prepared and brought in to us, and all took
seats at the table. They taunted us in every way. Sometimes we felt
ourselves forsaken, and disposed to give up in despair. Our friends were
locked out, and not permitted to come into the room; but we could hear their
faithful footsteps outside the door in the hall of the hole – Isaac and Amy
Post, Mr. and Mrs. Pierpont, George Willets and others. My young sister
Maggie was by my side, bathed in tears. Dr. Gates was carving. I was
struggling with a choking emotion, and could not taste food. The party were
joking and funning at our expense when suddenly the great table began to
tremble, and raised first one end and then the other, with loud creaking
sounds like a ship struggling in a heavy gale, until it was finally suspended
above our heads.
46
Update of Psypioneer’s research into the events at Hydesville, and the Fox family. See Psypioneer
Volume 8, No.1:—Hydesville – Fox Special:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.1January2012.pdf
175
“For a moment all were silent and looked at each other with
astonishment. The waiters fled in every direction. Instantly the scene was
changed. The ladies threw their arms around us, one after another, and it
was their turn to cry.
“They said to us, ‘Oh, you poor girls, how you have been abused! Oh,
how sorry we are for you; after all, it is true?!’ The gentlemen with one
accord said, ‘Girls, you have gained a victory. We will stand by you to the
last.”
Once from a Spiritualist platform (at Grovehale Hall) I essayed to read the above
extract, to illustrate something I was saying. I could hardly get through it for emotion.
At a subsequent public meeting in Rochester to hear the verdict of the examining
committee tar was heated ready for the girls, and they were in danger of their lives.
The Fox girls were truly pioneers, heroines, martyrs.
——§——
176
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price
pages 294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan The Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review,
by Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
http://www.theohistory.org then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price
page 7:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press
Publications, England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9., available at
Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara
& Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007.
Paperback ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt
pages 106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by
Barry H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-
945296-50-9., available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45
Psypioneer references by Leslie Price pages 39-42:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death,
by Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A)
2009. ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by
Barbara Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN:
0-06-056667-1., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-
10:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
——§——
177
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web
site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
——§——
