{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v8_n7_jul_2012.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V8 N7 Jul 2012","mylang":"de"}
216
F
Amalgamation of Societies
——§——
217 – The Katie King Photographs
Four “Katie King” Photographs – Psychic Science
Paul Gaunt comments
236 – Spiritualist Camps – Ben McDonald
239 – Deputation to the Right Honourable J.R. Clynes, M.P. by the United
Spiritualist Organisations (July 1930)
255 – Continued: The “Controls” of Stainton Moses “Characters of the Bible” –
A. W. Trethewy
261 – Some books we have reviewed
262 – How to obtain this Journal by email
PSYPIONEER GRANTS.
――§――
This edition of Psypioneer is the first to be produced with new hardware and software,
made possible by grants from the Spiritual Truth Foundation (£600) and JV Trust (£500).
Hitherto we experienced frequent technical problems caused by obsolete and
incompatible technology, to the extent that the whole editorial process was in jeopardy.
We are very grateful to these organisations for their assistance, and to the other
individuals and organisations who assist in the work, and make possible this free
educational resource.
LP.
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 8, No 7: July 2012
217
THE KATIE KING PHOTOGRAPHS
The photographic images of the alleged spirit Katie King, through the physical
mediumship of Florence Cook, taken at 20, Mornington Road London the residence of
William Crookes are well known, through numerous books, spiritualistic journals and
websites. Published below is the original article that brought four of these photographs to
public attention in 1934. There has been much speculation about the origins, dates, and
destruction of these famous images. The article and images were first published in
Psychic Science, the quarterly journal of the British College of Psychic Science (BCPS):1
FOUR “KATIE KING”
PHOTOGRAPHS
Psychic Science:—2
Mr. Frederick William Hayes, among whose
papers these photographs were found by his son
Mr. Gerald Hayes who has very kindly presented
them to the College, was a distinguished artist
(1848-1918) whose works were displayed at a
Memorial Exhibition in 1922.
He was a lover of nature and studied it from
first to last with an intense power of close
observation. His range was not wide but the
intensity of his vision more than atones for its
circumscription; and it is refreshing in an age that
is over-given to scamping detail on the plea of
attaining breadth, to see his beautiful rendering of
the minutiæ of Nature.
Perhaps the greatest charm of his work is its freshness. He is at his best in those small
transcripts where the hues of earth, sea and sky are given with peculiar vividness. These
he painted in the “thin-oil” method which he made peculiarly his own. Its essentials were
1
Not to be confused with the College of Psychic Studies (CPS), previously called The College of Psychic
Science – The London Spiritualist Alliance:― http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/college/history.html
For the British College of Psychic Science (BCPS) use our search engine at www.woodlandway.org key word
BCPS. Articles in particular 3.8: A Knight Errant of Psychic Science James Hewat McKenzie, & 7.2:
Whatever happened to the British College ?
2
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science Ltd., Vol. XIII April, 1934 No.1, pages
25-30. The article has no author’s name, but Stanley De Brath was the editor of Psychic Science from 1926
until 1936.
218
the liberal use of turpentine with oil-colour. A piece of cartridge paper was stretched and
sized. The main masses were then washed in with the thin colour, details being added
with smaller brushes. Examples of his painting have been secured for the British
Museum, the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Walker Art Gallery Liverpool, the
Manchester, Birmingham, Wolverhampton, Leeds, Sheffield, Hull, Nottingham, Bristol,
Southport, Burnley and Glasgow Art Galleries and the Dublin Municipal Gallery of
Modern Art.
He joined the S.P.R. before 1890 and remained an
active member till his death. He was associated with
the Misses Cook and Sir William Crookes in the
séances with Miss Florence Cook for the “Katie
King” manifestations and his views on phenomena are
indicated in a novel A Kent Squire. In chapter xxxiv of
that book occurs the actual case of the revival of a
still-born infant. His interest in psychic phenomena
was always strictly scientific; first to establish and
define the occurrence with an unbiased outlook and
taking into account all possible normal factors:
explanation of the “how” or “why” being treated quite
separately.
Psychic Research was very different in those early
days from what it is now. It needed a much more open
mind than at present and his interest and work in it
deserve a place among its pioneers.
THE FOUR PHOTOGRAPHS
These, now published for the first time, are copies of those taken at Sir William
Crookes’ house by himself. On the back of No. 4 is the autograph inscription as below:
Mrs. Helen Whittall Dr. Gully
Katie King.
I was present,
Kate S. Cook.
There is no record of date when taken.
They speak for themselves, and were found put away among his papers.
COMMENT
“You know,” said Justin, awkwardly, “I feel pretty badly about the way I behaved at
first. You see, I didn’t want to believe what you said, and so I didn’t.”
Brown nodded sympathetically.
219
“Only about ninety-nine out of every hundred people are like that,” he murmured.
John Stephen Strange.
This sentence, out of a modern novel3
aptly
expresses the reaction of average minds, including
some that pass for distinguished, to any new truth. It
has been exemplified throughout history. Sometimes
it goes further. Sir Oliver Lodge in his My Philosophy
recounts (p. 269) how a very simple, but (apart from
psychic force) inexplicable experiment, was presented
to the eminent Secretary to the Royal Society, Sir
George Gabriel Stokes, who maintained that it was
mechanically impossible and refused to witness it. “In
other words, the testimony of a good and famous
experimenter about a simple but incredible result,
entirely controlled by himself, was not accepted.” (p.
270.)
It is true that he abandoned the attempt to convince
his scientific brethren, but he never withdrew or
modified the conclusion which he published in the
Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism in 1874. Before the British Association at
Bristol in 1898, he declared “Upon one other interest I have not yet touched—to me the
weightiest and farthest-reaching of all. No
incident in my scientific career is more widely
known than the part I took many years ago in
certain psychic researches. Thirty years have
passed since I published an account of
experiments tending to show that outside our
scientific knowledge there exists a Force
exercised by intelligence differing from the
ordinary intelligence common to mortals. I have
nothing to retract. I adhere to my already
published statements. Indeed I might add much
thereto.”
The experiments of Professor Crookes with
Miss Florence Cook as medium, lasted three
years. The Katie King who manifested claimed to
be the daughter of Sir Henry Owen Morgan, ex-
buccaneer and Governor of Jamaica under
Charles II. Her name was Annie Owen Morgan.
The name “John King” assumed by her father,
was never satisfactorily explained: His identity
3
The Strangler Fig, p. 212
220
with the Governor Sir Henry Morgan has never been established.
Mr. Crookes was not convinced of Katie’s identity. In a letter to professor Brofferio in
1894, he said: “All that I am concerned in is that invisible and intelligent beings exist,
who say that they are the spirits of dead persons. But proof that they really are the
individuals they assume to be, which I require in order to believe it, I have never
received, though I am disposed to admit that many of my friends assert they have actually
obtained the desired proofs,
and I myself have already
frequently been many times on
the verge of this conviction.”
(Für den Spiritismus. Leipsic.
1894.) This disposes of Mr.
Crookes’ supposed credulity.
Katie King has recently been
associated with Dr. Glen
Hamilton’s circle and the
photograph of her in Psychic
Science of January, 1933, Plate
5, may be compared with No. 4
of the present issue.
It has always been a matter for regret that with the exception of two or three single
heads, all the forty-four negatives taken by Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., were
destroyed after his death by persons who considered that all memorials of his devotion to
psychical research would damage his scientific standing.
It is unnecessary here to do more than allude to the storm of hatred, vilification,
falsehood and slander to which this able experimenter, a Fellow, of the Royal Society,
Gold Medallist and member of the Order of Merit was exposed, simply because he
testified to what he had repeatedly proved. Even at the present day when the phenomena
have forced themselves by constant repetition on a reluctant world, Dr. Nandor Fodor
remarks in his article on Crookes (Encycl. p. 71) that “As late as 1930 we find Mr. H. G.
Wells in his The Science of Life stating that ‘his experiments have been submitted to
searching criticism and it is now seen that they have no claim to be in any way scientific.
Crookes himself abandoned the attempt to convince his scientific brethren and returned to
his chemical work.’ Wells also said that ‘Sir William Crookes had to submit to the
conditions the mediums demanded.’ ”
The best refutation is the statement of Crookes before the British Association for the
Advancement of Science in 1876. . . . He said, “I was asked to investigate when Dr. Slade
first came over, and I mentioned my conditions. I have never investigated except under
these conditions. It must be at my own house, with my own selection of friends and
spectators, under my own conditions, and I may do whatever I like to make the physical
apparatus test the things themselves, and have not trusted more than is possible to my
senses. But when it is necessary to trust my senses, I must entirely dissent from Mr.
221
Barrett, when he says that a trained physical inquirer is no match for a professional
conjurer. I maintain a physical inquirer is more than a match.”
Signor Bozzano in his book Animism and Spiritism gives, on p. 120. et seq., a
summary of this case. He says:
“It should be remembered that ‘Katie King,’ endowed in a high degree
with all the attributes which characterize a thinking entity, does not cease to
maintain her independent spiritual existence, tells the name she bore when
living, and narrates the painful vicissitudes of her short earthly life. She also
shows her independent existence by showing herself to the experimenter at
the same time as her medium, letting herself be photographed along with the
medium and Mr. Crookes; allowing him and Mrs. Marryat4
to touch her, kiss
her, and feel the beating of her heart and the rate of her pulse, and finally
waking up the medium and conversing with her.”
This last episode has great psychological value; I will therefore quote a short passage
descriptive of Katie King’s farewell. Mr. Crookes writes:
“After closing the curtain, she conversed with me for some time, and then
walked across the room to where Miss Cook was lying senseless on the floor.
Stooping over her, Katie touched her, and said, ‘Wake up, Florrie, wake up! I
must leave you now.’ Miss Cook then woke and tearfully entreated Katie to
stay a little time longer. ‘My dear, I can’t; my work is done. God bless you,’
Katie replied, and then continued speaking to Miss Cook. For several minutes
the two were conversing with each other, till at last Miss Cook’s tears
prevented her speaking. Following Katie’s instructions, I then came forward
to support Miss Cook, who was falling to the floor, sobbing hysterically. I
looked round, but the white-robed Katie had gone.”
This passage, quoted from Animism and Spiritism, page 121, is given to disprove the
theory current among those who will resort to the most extravagant notions to avoid
admitting survival. The particular passage referred to from the works of M. Sudre is as
under:
“It is therefore logical to conclude that all the phenomena of materialisation proceed
from this cause—(ideo-plasty combined with metagnomic prosopo-pesis), from
inanimate objects and the clothing of phantoms, up to the most complete images. The
resemblances which these last may present with persons who have lived, comes from the
memory of the medium or from that of the assistants.” (p. 299 Introduction à la
Metapsychique Humaine.)
To such absurd lengths will reluctance to accept undesirable conclusions carry a man
who ‘does not wish to believe.’
4
Should read: Miss Florence Marryat (1837-1899), later becoming Mrs. Ross-Church.
222
The most conclusive proofs of survival will be found in this book by Bozzano which I
should advise everyone to read. Among these proofs, one of the best is the excellent
summary of the experiments by Mrs. Willett and Mrs. Verrall which lasted for eighteen
months before their purpose became clear. The analysis and details will be found in Vol,
xxxix of the Proceedings S.P.R. related by Lord Balfour. All who are not contented with
empty verbal expressions and elaborate Greek terms, taking these for scientific
demonstration, will come to the same conclusions as did Lord Balfour. We may well ask
ourselves what more could be demanded from defunct personalities by way of proof of
their spiritual existence dependent of the medium. From the very beginning of
metapsychical research up to the present day, defunct personalities have furnished all the
proofs the human mind can imagine or demand. They invent a new and unexpected
system of the greatest efficacy, not suggested to them, but invented by themselves, who,
having been during their lives interested in metapsychic investigation, and knowing well
the gratuitous and often contradictory hypotheses invented by sceptics, endeavour to sur-
mount these by inventing new and ingenious proofs, of which this example is but one of a
thousand.
Again and again we find the old objections repeated as if never replied to—that the
“spirits” give nothing new on Physics and Chemistry; that they only talk trivialities; that
they are futile, &c. &c. The plain purpose of these manifestations is to reveal the
Continuity of Life by evidence to our material senses. Why should they, who have passed
beyond all matter as we know it, trouble themselves about our changing speculations?
Would they be believed if they did?
They make the Appearances of Jesus credible in this materialistic age. They show that
the enlarged faculties of the soul in the after-death state enable the discarnate to see at a
glance the character of all whom they meet; and they show that the incarnate soul, even
in the body of flesh, has foregleams of its higher destiny. They abolish the fear of death.
Is this trivial? or futile? If sceptics would read with open minds and consider the evidence
impartially, the answer would be plain.
――§――
223
Paul Gaunt comments:
We can note in the above article “It has always been a matter for regret that with the
exception of two or three single heads, all the forty-four negatives taken by Sir William
Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., were destroyed after his death …”.
A recent book William Crookes (1832-1919) and the Commercialization of Science, a
500 page biography by Professor William H. Brock,5
states “Crookes was extremely
protective of the set of Katie Cook photographs,” and suggests, (referring to the above
article) it was “most likely” the original photographs were destroyed by James Gardiner,
Crookes’ laboratory assistant,6
– ‘who considered that all memorials of his devotion to
psychic research would damage his scientific reputation’ (Brock p 192).
Brock further comments on a life-size portrait of Katie King, painted for Crookes in 1874
by J. Hawkins Simpson. The story was later published by James J. Morse in his Spiritual
Review London,7
in May 1901. Simpson’s portrait of Katie King was painted from
Crookes photographs, as the artist himself never witnessed Katie King’s materialised
form. The painting has not survived. The Spiritual Review article is reprinted in
Psypioneer, November 2005.8
Brock, also gives on page 192 this footnote (42):
“According to Simpson, Crookes had told W. T. Stead that he had
accidentally destroyed the packet containing all his negatives and prints of
Katie, so that the 22 copies in his possession (19 paper prints and 3 glass prints,
one of which was in stereo) were all that survived. Simpson had been allowed to
keep these on condition that he did not print or publicly exhibit them. Simpson
was in no doubt that the photographs proved that Florence and Katie were quite
different in appearance and stature. See discussion (and one photograph) in
Fournier d’Albe (1908).”
Having only internet access to Brock’s book, I have been unable to directly match this
reference; and it does not appear in New Light on Immortality by Fournier d’Albe 1908.9
There is no mystery that Crookes photographed Katie King at Mornington Road, and he
5
William Crookes: A Major Reconsideration
6
“… who had worked with him for nearly 40 years, …” (Brock xvi).
7
First issue published May 1900.
8
Volume 1, No.19:―A life-size portrait of ‘Katie King’, pages 252-254:―
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/19.PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
9
Read on line or download:―http://archive.org/details/newlightonimmort00fourrich (Edmund Edward, 1868-
1933)
224
had forty-four negatives leading up to her final farewell séance on May 21, 1874 which is
published in Sir William Crookes, Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism (1874).
The article The Last of Katie King – The Photographing of Katie King by the Aid of the
Electric Light, was first published in The Spiritualist, June 5, 1874. Another reference
can be found in Mr. Sludge, The Medium: Being the Life and Adventures of Daniel
Dunglas Home, by Horace Wyndham (1890-1916), published by Geoffrey Bles, London,
1937. On page 257: he writes, it was Crookes himself who had “subsequently destroyed
these photographs and forbidden their reproduction”.
What happened to the negatives is relatively unimportant, but we can note in William
Stead’s Borderland Volume IV., No.2 April 1897 pages 124-132 “Professor Crookes” (p.
128) Stead states:
“I had hoped to have been able to reproduce some of these Katie
photographs, but, alas! Mr. Crookes tells me they were all accidentally destroyed
some years ago.”
Presumably, there would have been prints available in Crookes’ private circle of friends.
We can note in the above article that Kate Selina Cook (Florence’s elder sister and also a
medium), made copies for Frederick William Hayes. Nandor Fodor, in his Encyclopaedia
of Psychic Science (Citadel Press, 1966 p71) states: “He never allowed the circulation of
the photograph in which he stood arm-in-arm with Katie King.” Some reports state that
none of Crookes photographs were published in his lifetime. When the above article,
along with the publication of the four Crookes photographs appeared for the first time in
April 1934, Psychic News also reproduced these by courtesy of Psychic Science.
Surprisingly, the captions with the large reproduction photographs printed on page 7
(April 21st) are changed! Plate 2, now states: “Katie King standing beside her medium,
whose comparative bulk, always described by Crookes, is obvious.” This shows
confusion presumably by the paper’s editor Maurice Barbanell. Florence never sat as part
of the circle with Crookes and always used a cabinet (Crookes library). During the
photographic séances showing both medium and the alleged Katie King together the
medium’s head is concealed with a shawl.
There are some valuable studies of the story of William Crookes, Florence Cook, and
Katie King. The first, The Spiritualists by Trevor H. Hall, published in 1962, caused a
stream of protests from those involved as an attack on William Crookes character. For
research purposes however, it gives a biased but referenced overview of the story with
some unpublished correspondence. In 1960, Hall accessed the Charles Blackburn file
from the Spiritualists’ National Union (SNU), then headquartered at Britten House, Tib
Lane, Manchester. Housed in the Britten Memorial Library, the file of unsorted
correspondence had been given to Britten Memorial Library on the advice of former SNU
president Ernest Oaten for safe keeping in 1946 by Lillian Dixon, a niece of Captain
Edward Elgie Corner, (died 1928 age 83), who had married Florence Cook (1874).
225
Following Florence’s death in 1904,10
he married her sister Kate Selina (1859-1923) in
October 1907.
Another valuable well-documented study was undertaken, partly in response to Trevor
Hall’s conclusions by Mr R.G. Medhurst, and Mrs Kathleen M. Goldney: William
Crookes and the Physical Phenomena of Mediumship published as the Proceedings of the
Society for Psychical Research, Volume 54, Part 195, March 1964.
In the Appendix of “Crookes’s ‘Katie King’ Photographs” on page 149, we find this
interesting piece:
“It has never been clear what motivated Crookes in withholding
publication of the ‘Katie’ photographs during his lifetime. What have
survived are a few, poor quality prints of obscure origin. His attitude to
publication is expressed, but not explained, in a letter to a Captain T. D.
Williams, written on August 4, 1874. The original was in Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle’s Psychic Museum,11
and was probably lost when most of the contents
were destroyed by flood. It reads:
“It was at the express wish of Katie King and is also that of Miss Cook and
myself that the photographs I took should be kept strictly private and only given
to intimate friends. If, however, you will not allow the picture to be circulated or
copied in any way, and will consider it quite private, I shall have great pleasure
in begging your acceptance of the one I enclose.”
Crookes does give some photographic details in The Spiritualist (1869-1882), on June 5,
1874 and later published in his Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism as
previously alluded to:
“During the week before Katie took her departure she gave séances at my
house almost nightly to enable me to photograph her by artificial light. Five
complete sets of photographic apparatus were accordingly fitted up for the
purpose, consisting of five cameras, one of the whole-plate size, one half-plate,
one quarter-plate, and two binocular sterescopic cameras, which were all
brought to bear upon Katie at the same time on each occasion on which she
stood for her portrait. Five sensitising and fixing baths were used, and plenty of
plates were cleaned ready for use in advance, so that there might be no hitch or
delay during the photographing operations, which were performed by myself,
aided by one assistant.”
10
Psypioneer Volume 8, No.3:―Transition of Mrs. Corner – Light, pages 99-101:―
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.3March2012.pdf
11
See Psypioneer Volume 5, No.5:―The World’s Happiest Museum – Through a Room of Miracles with
Sir A. Conan Doyle, by Leonard Crocombe, pages 136-145:―http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.5May09.pdf
226
But details of the photographic images and the amount of printable material from the
forty-four negatives are unknown. Crookes stated: “Altogether I have forty-four
negatives, some inferior, some indifferent, and some excellent”. He gives details of only
two of the photographs:
1).
“On entering the cabinet Miss Cook lies down upon the floor, with her head
on a pillow, and is soon entranced. During the photographic séance, Katie
muffled her medium’s head up in a shawl to prevent the light falling upon her
face. I frequently drew the curtain on one side when Katie was standing near,
and it was a common thing for the seven or eight of us in the laboratory to see
Miss Cook and Katie at the same time, under the full blaze of the electric light.
We did not on these occasions actually see the face of the medium because of
the shawl, but we saw her hands and feet; we saw her move uneasily under the
influence of the intense light, and we heard her moan occasionally. I have one
photograph of the two together, but Katie is seated in front of Miss Cook’s head.
2).
One of the most interesting of the pictures is one in which I am standing by
the side of Katie; she has her bare foot upon a particular part of the floor.
Afterwards I dressed Miss Cook like Katie, placed her and myself in exactly the
same position, and we were photographed by the same cameras, placed exactly
as in the other experiment, and illuminated by the same light. When these two
pictures are placed over each other, the two photographs of myself coincide
exactly as regards stature, etc., but Katie is half a head taller than Miss Cook,
and looks a big woman in comparison with her. In the breadth of her face, in
many of the pictures, she differs essentially in size from her medium, and the
photographs show several other points of difference.”
As for the actual sitters in Crookes séances we know little. He often refers to the sitters as
“those of our friends,” “seven or eight of us …” etc. Crookes we note acted as
photographer, “aided by one assistant.” Trevor Hall suggests in The Spiritualists this aid
may have been Dr James Manby Gully (1808-1883). He is reported by some to have
witnessed the experimental séances with Crookes, and appears in two photographs. One
of these photographs is plate 4, and published in the above article. These photographs are
the only connection between Crookes and Gully I have found – yet Gully is not
mentioned in any of accounts by Crookes, nor does he appear to be personally associated
with him in any way, except to say they probably met at the Hackney séances. Hall states
“that he must have been present during some of the Mornington Road sittings …” which
makes sense, as he appears on the photographs. However, Crookes clearly states “having
been very successful in taking numerous photographs of Katie King”, apart from the
other two photographs previously mentioned. It is puzzling he makes no comments as to
the sitters who appear on the photographs with Katie King, unless they asked for their
identities to be withheld―which would be strange as some were well known
Spiritualists.
227
With such little information and clarification, how do we know
what was actually photographed by Crookes? We can
reasonably assume that during Crookes’ lifetime his
photographs were for private circulation only, and not
published. If so, this would mean that none of Crookes
photographs were published before his death on April 4 1919.
While earlier researching Professor William H. Brock’s
Fournier d’Albe (1908) reference, New Light on Immortality I
found this photograph on page 232. We can note it was
published in 1908, and is a cropped version (cutting out the two
sitters one of which is Dr. Gully) of Hayes plate 4 of our article
claiming; the four photographs were taken at Sir William
Crookes’ house by himself and published for the first time in
1934, around eleven years before the death of William Crookes!
It is usually assumed that all photographs of “Katie King” are
part of Crookes’ private collection. We can note quite clearly
the cabinet behind the alleged materialisation, and we can see
on the four photographs the sitters appear to be facing away
from the cabinet, this is suggestive that the photographs were
not taken at Mornington Road as the article states.
Note Crookes’ comments on the photographic séances setup:
“My library was used as a dark cabinet. It has
folding doors opening into the laboratory; one of
these doors was taken off its hinges, and a curtain
suspended in its place to enable Katie to pass in and
out easily. Those of our friends who were present
were seated in the laboratory facing the curtain, and
the cameras were placed a little behind them, ready to
photograph Katie when she came outside, and to
photograph anything also inside the cabinet whenever
the curtain was withdrawn for the purpose.”
It is my opinion that these two photographs, which can be
found on websites, articles, and some publications are the
actual photographs taken by Crookes at Mornington Road,
and are part of the original collection he endorsed and
circulated to his intimate friends like Captain T. D.
Williams as noted previously. We can also note Epes
Sargent’s remarks:12
12
Taken from: ― The Proof Palpable of Immortality; Being an Account of the Materialization Phenomena
of Modern Spiritualism, published by Colby and Rich, Boston, 1875 page 107.
228
“During the week before Katie took her
departure, she gave séances at Mr. Crookes’s
house almost nightly, to enable him to
photograph her by artificial light. In a letter dated
July 21st, 1874, and enclosing two photographs,
he writes me:
“You may be interested in seeing one of my
photographs of Katie, as she stood holding my
arm; also one in which she is standing by
herself.” In the former of these the person of
Katie, nearly to her ankles, dressed in her white
robe, is taken; in the other, not quite so much of
the figure is seen. In both photographs, the
drapery is gracefully disposed; the countenance is
placid, and the features finely formed, though it
might not require much imagination to discover
in their general expression a spectral look; the
figure has all the distinctness of a veritable
human being, there being nothing shadowy in the outlines.”
What is not generally recorded is the fact that Crookes was not the only person to
photograph the alleged “Katie King”. In Psypioneer September 2010 we published the
first likeness of alleged spirit “Annie Owen de Morgan,” better known as “Katie King.”
Below is published the short article and portrait:
“A series of four sittings were held to photograph the
spirit of “Katie King.” The experimental efforts were
successful: it is claimed that the engraving:—“… is about
as faithful a copy as wood-cutting can give, of one of the
photographs obtained on Wednesday night, last week. In
the photograph itself the features are more detailed and
beautiful, and there is an expression of dignity and
ethereality in the face, which is not fully represented in
the engraving, which, however, has been executed as
nearly as possible with scientific accuracy, by an artist of
great professional skill.”
“The original photograph was taken by magnesium light
on Wednesday 7th
May 1873. All the photographs were taken by the founder
editor of The Spiritualist, William H. Harrison.
“The image and quote is taken from The Spiritualist, May 15, 1873 page 200.
229
“Were the actual photographs ever published? The photographs at the time were
in the possession of Mr. Tapp, the engraving was cut by Mr. John Swain, and
drawing from the photograph was made upon the wood by Mr. Frederick
Winter.”
William Henry Harrison (1841-1897),13
was probably one of the most experienced sitters
with Florence Cook covering at least two years of the teenage medium during her stages
of development to full materialisation, and he was the first to obtain photographs of the
alleged materialised figure “Katie King”. In May 1873, Harrison by magnesium light
successfully obtained a series of photographic images as the form emerged from the
cabinet walked about the room, conversed with the sitters who sat in a semi-circle in front
of the cabinet. One of the more frequent sitters was a Dr. James M. Gully.14
In his
testimony to Epes Sargent on July 20 1874 he states:
“When that photograph* was taken, I held her hand for at least two minutes,15
three several times, for we sat three times for it on one and the same evening; but
I was constrained to close my eyes by reason of the intense magnesium light
which shone upon me; she desired that none of us gaze at her whilst the lens was
directed upon her.”
* “The well-known published photograph, in which Katie is represented
standing with Dr. Gully sitting at her side and holding her hand.” (Sargent P54-
55)
It should be noted there is some error with some of Sargent’s dates using 1874, rather
than 1873 – for example he dates the William Volckman seizure of Florence as
December 1874, in fact it was 1873.16
It is more likely the above report should be dated
1873.
William Harrison’s series of four photographic séances began on May 5 1873, ‘a dress
rehearsal’ only obtaining faint pictures.17
In a signed statement,18
like Crookes’ later
13
New research information on William Harrison by Marc Demarest:―
http://ehbritten.blogspot.co.uk/2012/06/william-henry-harrison-1841-1897.html
14
James Manby Gully:―http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Manby_Gully
15
There are numerous references and speculations that Dr. Gully is taking Katie King’s pulse in this
photograph. In Dr. Gully’s testimony to Epes Sargent it seems not to be the case.
16
Psypioneer Vol. 6, No.7:—William Volckman – Paul J. Gaunt, pages 185-195 continues over the next
two issues:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.7.July2010.pdf
17
May 5, faint pictures, May 7, four pictures one used for the engraving, May 12, four more photographs,
May 28, four more photographs. Making a total of twelve photographs, taken by William Harrison in May
1873.
230
photographs, Harrison’s photographic séance procedure is outlined. We can note from
this:
“Katie usually leaned on the shoulder of Mr. Luxmoore, and stood up to be
focused several times …” (Sargent p98)
It should be noted to save any confusion reading the reports, that there were three
farewell séances according to Harrison, starting on Wednesday May 13, the next on May
16, and the final séance on May 21 1874, Crookes attending all three.19
Just prior to these
dates there was another farewell séance, which was attended by Benjamin Coleman. Held
on May 9th, Sargent writes (P102) of my friend Mr Coleman: “He took from his pocket a
photograph; Katie received it from his hands, and exclaimed, “This is Dr. Gully and my
likeness. What do you want me to do with it?” “Write,” said Mr. Coleman, “your name,
and any message …” Crookes was again present at this séance. A report of the final
séance is also given by Harrison, and he notes who was present: Mr Crookes, Mrs
Corner, Mrs Ross-Church, Mr W. H. Harrison, Mr G. R. Tapp, Mr and Mrs Cook and
family, and the servant Mary (Cook residence). Much of these reports can be read on line
in New Light on Immortality by Fournier d’Albe 190820
as previously cited.
On concluding my research, I consulted a scarce book, The Critics’ Dilemma, which was
privately published in 1966 by Eric J. Dingwall (1890-1986). Dingwall was a former
research officer for the Society for Psychical Research (SPR). He wrote various books on
psychical research, sometimes co-authored with Harry Price and Trevor Hall etc. In 1967,
Maurice Barbanell referred to him as “The greatest expert on this subject in the world
today.”21
Although his references are a bit vague and his enquiry brief, he comes to a similar
conclusion as myself albeit by a different route about the famous photograph of Dr. Gully
holding Katie King’s hand, which is reproduced in Harry Price’s book Fifty Years of
Psychical Research (1939).
18
Statement is undated but referring to May 7 1873, four photographs were taken - signed by: Amelia
Corner (Florence’s future mother–in-law), Caroline Corner, J. C. Luxmoore, G. R. Tapp, and William
Harrison.
19
All farewell, and the final Katie King séance on May 21, 1874, took place at Hackney, not at Crookes’
residence as some reports suggest.
20
Read online or download:―http://archive.org/details/newlightonimmort00fourrich (Edmund Edward Fournier
D’Albe , 1868-1933)
21
Eric John Dingwall:―http://www.answers.com/topic/eric-john-dingwall#ixzz221HeyVzm
231
Dingwall states:
“Now, if the reproduction in Price’s
book be examined it will be seen that
the background shows features so
similar to those published by Mr. G.
Hayes that it can hardly be denied that
they were taken in the same place. For
instance, note the falling curtain flap
just behind and to the right of Katie’s
head in the Price reproduction and in
Nos. 1 and 4 of the Hayes photographs,
together with the jagged edge made by
the same flap as seen in Price and
Hayes Plate 4. […] Again, in Hayes’
Plate 1 Katie appears to be resting
against the shoulder of the gentleman
to the left, and I suggest that this sitter is Mr. J. C. Luxmoore since in both the
two series of sittings in May, 1873, Katie was in the habit of leaning on that
gentleman’s shoulder. Indeed, in his account of the sitting when such a
photograph was taken Luxmoore stated that in one of the photographs one half of
his own face could be seen at one side of the picture. This can be compared with
Hayes’ Plate 1 where one half of the face of a sitter on whom Katie seems to be
leaning is out of focus and somewhat obscured.
“It is for these reasons that I suggest that the famous picture of Dr. Gully
holding Katie’s hand was not taken by Crookes at Mornington Road but by
Harrison at Hackney in 1873. Moreover, Dr. Gully himself when discussing what
was apparently this very photograph stated that it was taken by magnesium light,
which corresponds with the method used by Harrison.”
To conclude:
This exercise has, from all the various avenues and leads, brought to light some
interesting results which have shown that most of the well-known materialisation
photographs of “Katie King,” are almost certainly not from Sir William Crookes’ private
collection as most of our references’ for the last eighty years or so have led us to
believe―but were taken prior to Crookes’ photographic séances, by the editor of The
Spiritualist, William Henry Harrison.
Briefly to summarise: we know that in May 1873 Harrison had a total of twelve
photographs, as referred to in footnote 17. This is a full year previous to Crookes’
232
photographic séances in the following May 1874. Reports, photographic techniques, and
additional information clearly separate them.
Crookes took his photographs when “during the week before Katie took her departure she
gave séances at my house almost nightly to enable me to photograph her by artificial light”.
He details his photographic setup, and limited details of the images he records. Reports lead
us to believe he kept all his photographs for private circulation, and not for publication
which fits in with this research e.g., writing personal inscriptions on the photographs. It is
my understanding that there are probably around eleven or twelve surviving images (some
additional photographs are cropped images of other photographs); nine of these can be
viewed online for convenience on the old ‘Survival After Death’ site.22
This number is made up from:
1). Four Hayes images (as reproduced in this article)
2). Dr. Gully holding the hand of Katie King (as reproduced in this article)
3). Katie King standing by the curtain (as reproduced in this article)
4). Crookes and Katie King (as reproduced in this article)
5). Crookes and Katie King
6). Katie King and Florence Cook photographed together
1 & 2, are I believe taken by William Harrison in May 1873 for reasons outlined above.
What caused me to look further into the Hayes article was “why were all the sitters not
looking at the materialisation – they are all looking away?” My research lead me to this
statement: “The only stipulation Katie made throughout was, that the sitters would not stare
fixedly at her whilst she stood for her photograph.”23
I wondered also, who the man was in
Hayes Plate 1 with Katie leaning on his shoulder while posing for her picture, in the same
report “Katie usually leaned on the shoulder of Mr. Luxmoore,24
and stood up to be
focused several times, …” These quotes are from the séance on Wednesday 7 May 1873,
22
See:―http://www.survivalafterdeath.info/photographs.htm
23
The Spiritualist May 15, 1873 pages 200-203 and The Proof Palpable of Immortality, by Epes Sargent
pages 97-99, 1875
24
John Chave Luxmoore (1803c-1881) was a wealthy spiritualist, prior to moving to London he was a
country magistrate at Alphington, Devon. It was at this time he discovered mesmerism, and in the mid-
1840s Luxmoore was recorded in Zoist as healing through mesmerism.
233
that the engraving was also taken from and reproduced in this article. We can also note on
Hayes Plate 3 a striking resemblance between the photograph and the engraving.
We can clearly see the materialisation cabinet in the pictures, especially in the one with Dr.
Gully holding Katie King’s hand. Probably the Psychic Science images are the best quality
but they are slightly cropped, which is not the case in this image. In Harrison’s
photographic séances it is stated that Florence Cook’s (old) cabinet is placed in the corner
of the room, Crookes did not use a portable cabinet but a curtain across the door leading to
his library. While on the subject of this photograph we know it was in general circulation
by 1875. We also know this photograph was taken by “magnesium light” not used by
Crookes.25
Other details like “The cabinet doors were placed open, and shawls hung across
…” all lead to the Hayes photographs being taken by William Harrison in May 1873.
3 & 4, I believe are prints of the actual Crookes photographs; they fully fit with what was
detailed by Crookes himself.
5, or other similar pictures may be Crookes’ comparison photograph/s; no research has as
yet been done. However, this website has done some work in a comparison photograph
which is interesting:26
“Afterwards I dressed Miss Cook like Katie, placed her and myself in exactly the
same position, and we were photographed by the same cameras, placed exactly as in
the other experiment, and illuminated by the same light. When these two pictures are
placed over each other, the two photographs of myself coincide exactly as regards
stature, etc., but Katie is half a head taller than Miss Cook, and looks a big woman in
comparison with her. In the breadth of her face, in many of the pictures, she differs
essentially in size from her medium, and the photographs show several other points of
difference.”
6, again no research has been carried out on this but does not fit in with Crookes
description:
“On entering the cabinet Miss Cook lies down upon the floor, with her head on
a pillow, and is soon entranced. During the photographic séance, Katie muffled
her medium’s head up in a shawl to prevent the light falling upon her face. I
frequently drew the curtain on one side when Katie was standing near, and it was a
25
Crookes states the artificial lighting he used during the photographic séances, as being electric light: “The
Last of Katie King – The Photographing of Katie King by the Aid of the Electric Light” published in The
Spiritualist, June 5, 1874 & his Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism (1874).
26
This can be translated into English text:―http://www.ceticismoaberto.com/fortianismo/1969/florence-cook-
katie-king-a-garota-que-era-sua-propria-fantasma-adendo
234
common thing for the seven or eight of us in the
laboratory to see Miss Cook and Katie at the same time,
under the full blaze of the electric light.
We did not on these occasions actually see the face of the
medium because of the shawl, but we saw her hands and
feet; we saw her move uneasily under the influence of
the intense light, and we heard her moan occasionally. I
have one photograph of the two together, but Katie is
seated in front of Miss Cook’s head.”
Finally:
The day after Katie King’s final séance with Florence
Corner, we find another report in a handwritten notelet from Florence, headed with her
logo F.E.C.,27
giving her Hackney address, to Charles Blackburn, dated May 22. Although
now married she signs the letter Florence E Cook I quote:28
“I am so sorry she has gone. I am dreadfully lonely without her. My only
consolation is that we have some splendid photos. She tried very hard to get
herself & me taken together but directly the light was turned on me I began to
kick and fight so Mr. Crookes has only partially succeeded. He has got a bit of
me.”
Florence continues in her letter with another reference to photographs, which is
confusing:
“I called on Burns. He said that he had no idea that we did not wish the
photographs to be sold and that they had been sent to him from Paris along with
others. I suppose the photographer had sent them. I have not given any away.”
This would not fit in with Crookes’ circulation of his photographs as noted in this article,
for him to just randomly send his private photographs to a journalist (James Burns’
founder editor of the Medium and Daybreak) without instruction, and Florence would not
be referring to Crookes as “the photographer”. We know the William Harrison
photographs were taken a year earlier than Crookes. There were issues between Harrison
and Burns and it is doubtful he would send Burns photographs especially a year later, and
why from Paris when they both resided in London?
27
Florence was lucky after her marriage in 1874 to Edward Elgie Corner: her initials remained the same!
28
This letter is archived in the Britten Memorial Museum, at the Arthur Findlay College, Stansted Hall: ―
BMT 712: Exhibit BP. 12.
235
Who was in Paris around this time? Florence regularly wrote to Blackburn so the news
would be fairly recent. Maybe, the photographs are of Florence as she was becoming a
well-known medium. Burns did sell photographs of the various mediums at his Spiritual
Institution.
Paul J. Gaunt.
――§――
236
SPIRITUALIST CAMPS
John Patrick Deveney: Free Love, Universal Reform
and Fraud: The Economics and Transformation of
American Spiritualist Camp-Meetings in the
Nineteenth Century29
J. P. Deveney30
has produced an evocative survey of
Spiritualist camp meetings in nineteenth-century
America. In so doing, he has expertly avoided the
academic cliché that to write of Spiritualism is
necessarily to write about mediumship; this account
treats Spiritualism as an important social movement
in the history of nineteenth-century American
progressive thought. As such, it is a welcome
alternative to the typical scholarly probing of the
movement for its religious doubts, unresolved
bereavements, and repressed sexualities. Instead, the
central theme of Deveney’s work is Spiritualism’s
development from a radical, “this-worldly” reformist
movement to, in the author’s words, a “curious
minor Protestant sect” that hoped for betterment in the future as opposed to radical
change in the present.
The work is grounded by an investigative study of the growth, success, and decline of
various individual Spiritualist camp communities. From his considerable collection of
sources, Deveney creates a colourful impression of the life of these camps, studded with
many gems of historical observation. As he describes it, American Spiritualists travelled
to the scenic hinterlands in search of spiritual community; reformist and radical
discussion was the dominant feature of these gatherings, and mediumship was not the
central or even an encouraged theme. Yet it was hardly possible to entirely disassociate
mediumship from any Spiritualist event, and Deveney describes the jumbled retinue of
mediums, psychics, and clairvoyants who attended these camps and plied their trade,
though sometimes at a regulation distance. Deveney pays particularly close attention to
the economics of the camps, both in terms of their income and profit as well as the
economic (and sometimes predatory) aspect of performative mediumship.
29
Theosophical History Occasional Papers Vol. XIII, 111 pages, $27.00., available
from:―www.theohistory.org Arrangements can be made to pay in sterling.
Contact:―jsantucci@Exchange.fullerton.edu.
30
Photograph of John Patrick Deveney: by kind permission of Colyn Boyce of the Theosophical Society.
237
Of all contemporary reformist issues, one stands out in Deveney’s analysis: the push for
free love. Deveney suggests that Spiritualist radicals eventually pushed their support of
free love too far, prompting a backlash against the various reformists who had dominated
the early life of the camps, and, consequently, the intellectual development of the
Spiritualist movement. In putting together this narrative of reform, Deveney identifies
numerous individual thinkers, speakers, and activists, and he considers carefully the
influence of important periodicals such as Banner of Light and the Religio-Philosophical
Journal. The reader gains a clear sense of the emerging conflict between spiritualism and
liberalism, a contest played out in the organisation of the Spiritualist camps as various
figures competed to lead and direct the Spiritualist movement.
As a result of their ostracisation, even the most radical seemed willing to return to a
moderate position in order to win back support and escape exile from the camps, which
were invaluable opportunities to present ideas to large gatherings of American
Spiritualists. As attempts to start new camps rarely seemed to produce the desired results,
the usual result was the watering down and even repudiation of radical ideas in order to
regain acceptance. Deveney concludes that by the end of the nineteenth century,
Spiritualism had lost its reformist fire, though it still paid “lip service” to earlier
convictions. In one footnote, Deveney observes an ugly devolution in attitudes towards
black Americans that seems particularly telling of a change in attitude. Combining all
these themes—the economic challenges of the camps, the earnest but thwarted drive for
progressive reform, and the inevitable cases of fraudulent mediumship ― Deveney thus
deftly spins a convincing account of a radical movement whose energies were gradually
suppressed by the emergence of philosophical contradictions and concessions. From a
progressive point of view, it is difficult to read this as anything less than a narrative of
decline.
One of the apparent features of this declension is an eventual turn towards “occultism” or
“New Thought”: briefly put, the gradual dissolution of a specifically Spiritualist
temperament into the more individualist-oriented, metaphysically noncommital attitude
that is commonly identified with the twentieth-century New Age, but which of course
long predates it. Again, the economics of the camps play a role in this shift: Deveney
suggests that they became forums for the sale of esoteric techniques (and, presumably,
apparatus) that enabled psychic and occult methods of self-discovery. As with the
fraudulent camp-followers, this trend further contributed to an increasing disaffection for
the camps. Furthermore, as Spiritualism made its shift towards a form of religiosity, the
camps began to focus upon producing a “generalized religious sentiment” in a sacral
gathering space. These two new characters of the camp, as occult clearing-houses and
prayerful sites of worship, are in sharp contrast to its earlier role as the forum for
progressive discussion and volatile lectures (and, perhaps, free love.)
It must be said that this is quite a pessimistic piece, suggesting the diminishment of a
once-vital movement into a mere shadow of its fiery former self; the final quotation, from
Annie Lord, suggests a decayed, deflated camp offering little more than banal
mediumship and faded dreams. Deveney suggests that Spiritualism, while an early
bastion for social reform, became increasingly viewed as eccentric and irrational by
238
mainstream progressives. Once it had purged itself of whatever reformist spirit it may
still have had, the inevitable conclusion is that Spiritualism entered the twentieth century
as an entirely impotent progressive movement. I wonder whether further research might
alter or confirm this characterisation; to my knowledge, there has never been a study of
the way in which twentieth-century Spiritualists engaged with pressing social and cultural
issues of the century. Did Spiritualists, following their beliefs, involve themselves in such
issues as peace movement, second-wave feminism, and gay liberation? Did they content
themselves with waiting for spiritual utopia, or even oppose these new waves of
progressive thought?
Needless to say, it is the mark of fine scholarship that a study of nineteenth-century camp
gatherings can inspire questions ranging well beyond its immediate subject matter. Any
reader interested in the history of progressive thought and organisation in nineteenth-
century America will appreciate this thoughtful, critical short piece.
Ben McDonald is a doctoral candidate in History at the University of Melbourne. His
thesis considers the representation of death, grief, and mourning in twentieth-century
psychic and occult thought.
――§――
239
DEPUTATION
TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE
J.R. CLYNES, M.P.
(HOME SECRETARY)
BY THE UNITED
Spiritualist Organisations
[Note by LP: We are publishing below the official printed minutes of the
1930 official deputation seeking a change in the law of England. This was one
of the last of many services by Conan Doyle to the Movement, as he passed
on 7 July. The major contribution was made by Ernest Oaten. whom we have
often featured, and who later was again called upon when there was a
broadcast about Spiritualism, and an Anglican inquiry into the subject. One
organization – the LSA – was conspicuously absent from the deputation, for
reasons explained in our July 2006 issue.31
Paul Gaunt has been preparing a
special study of the law as it was applied to mediums over the years, until the
law was changed in 1951.]
HELD AT THE
Home Office, Whitehall, S.W.I
ON
Tuesday, 1st July, 1930.
_______________________
31
New light on the final days of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Pages 139-147:―
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.7July06.pdf
240
THE HOME SECRETARY was accompanied by
SIR ERNLEY BLACKWELL, K.C.B.,
ARTHUR LOCKE Esq, C.B.E.,
C.D. CAREW ROBINSON, Esq, and
F.A. NEWSAM, Esq. (Private Secretary).
The Deputation was introduced by MR. KELLY, M.P. (Rochdale)
The Deputation consisted of:
THE SPIRITUALIST INTERNATIONAL WORLD FEDERATION:
Sir Arthur and Lady Conan Doyle (Honorary President), Mr E. W. Oaten (President).
THE SPIRITUALISTS’ NATIONAL UNION:
Mr E.W. Oaten (Editor of “The Two Worlds”), Mr Hannen Swaffer (Journalist), Mr
G.F. Berry (General Secretary), Mr J.M. Stewart (Treasurer).
THE BRITISH COLLEGE OF PSYCHIC SCIENCE:
Mrs Champion De Crespigny (Honorary Principal), Rev. Drayton Thomas.
CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST ASSOCIATIONS:
Rev. George Vale Owen.
THE SPIRITUALIST COMMUNITY SERVICES:
Mrs St. Clair Stobart.
THE MARYLEBONE SPIRITUALIST ALLIANCE:
Mr. George Craze (President), Mr F. Hawken (Secretary).
JEWISH SPIRITUALIST SOCIETIES: Mr M. Barbanell.
INDEPENDENT SPIRITUALISTS:
Lady M. Molesworth, Miss Lind-Af-Hageby (Founder of Animal Defence and Anti-
Vivisection Society), Mr R.H. Saunders and Mr E. W. Lancaster.
241
THE HOME SECRETARY: I think you had better begin, Mr. Kelly.
MR KELLY: Mr. Home Secretary and Gentlemen, this is a Deputation that has been
arranged by correspondence, to see you with regard to what is a very real grievance. In
introducing the Deputation, I am not going to deal with the subject, but I will leave that to
those who are well acquainted with it. I do introduce this Deputation in the confidence
that probably one has not felt with any other Deputation when introduced. Some of us,
and I think you know them, have been fighting for freedom to profess whatever one’s
conscience may dictate; we have gone further than that, we have asked for freedom to
practise whatever our conscience dictates to us, and I think that is what this Deputation is
asking for this morning. The first speaker will be Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and he will be
followed by Mr. Oaten, who will put the main aspect of the case.
THE HOME SECRETARY: Sir Arthur, I am glad to see that you are well enough to
be here, and I am sorry to hear of your recent illness.
SIR A. CONAN DOYLE: Thank you. Mr. Home Secretary and Gentlemen, we are, as
you know, a Deputation representing a considerable body of people - an increasing body
I may say - who feel that mediumship, whether from a scientific or a religious aspect,
deserves to be treated very seriously. We realise your difficulties in dealing with the
matter. Fraud and tricks are the difficulties, and are the greatest enemies we can possibly
have. I assure you, and my words will be corroborated by the experienced Spiritualists
present, that the real medium and the honest medium is in an enormous majority, and that
these people are decent citizens who shed around them such an atmosphere of human
comfort and consolation, and also a religious assurance, as no other body in the whole
community does. I do not think that the most busy medical man or the forest workman
can succeed in giving more happiness to the human race than a competent medium.
These people, who are very delicate and sensitive creatures, are living always under the
shadow of the police, and I would ask you, because here is a matter in which you can
personally be of much help to us, to consider for the moment the administrative way in
which the police act in these matters. It is always in the same way. They send policemen
and policewomen disguised to the medium, who pretend to be in trouble and ask for
consolation, and then they take out a summons against the medium. That is being an
“agent provocateur,” and the act, like the word, is not English it is against all our feelings
and traditions. Just consider what the effect on the public would be if there was
criminality in the park, and it was shown that the police had connived at the immorality;
that would be an exact parallel with what occurs with us. Apart from those changes which
will be presently suggested in the law, if you were to send word to the different Chief
Constables from your honourable position, asking them in future to let the public who are
aggrieved take action, but not the police to lay traps in this questionable manner, we think
that you would go a long way towards alleviating the grievances from which these people
suffer. I am not here to talk for any length of time for several reasons, but I hope by
dropping that into your mind that something may come of it, and Mr. Oaten will put our
case more fully before you.
242
MR OATEN: Mr. Clynes and Gentlemen, I have been asked to undertake the
responsibility of laying our case before you, and I have taken the trouble to type it out
carefully, so that you may have a very exact statement, and I shall be glad to hand this to
you at the close.
The study and practice of Spiritualism and the investigation of psychical phenomena
in this country dates back to about the year 1850, and is at present occupying the
attention of hundreds of thousands of people in this country. There are several societies
which are concerned in such investigation, study and practice; some of them working
along purely religious lines, others interested only in the scientific aspects of the case,
while others again make it purely a domestic matter concerned with the reuniting of family
ties severed by the incident of death. These several societies are represented upon the
Deputation which you have honoured us by receiving to-day. The only persons not directly
represented are the mediums themselves, who have committed their case to our care.
The Deputation does not seek to justify a belief in Spiritualism, but presumes that the
existence of Spiritualists as a sincere, as a religious, and as a scientific body is accepted,
and therefore does not purpose at this interview putting forward arguments in justification
or proof of its statements and beliefs. The Spiritualist movement exists for the investigation
of psychical research and of spirit communications, whether it be for religious or scientific
or moral purposes, and its investigation and practice is carried on by and through mediums
who possess the psychic faculty, and through whose instrumentality occur phenomena,
both of a physical type and of an inspirational type. The practice of Spiritualism is largely
used for healing purposes. The scientific section of the Spiritualist movement, denominated
psychical research, looks upon mediums as “the scientific apparatus” necessary for the
carrying on of their investigations, and psychical research is hardly possible without the use
of mediums. On the other hand, the religious section, comprising six hundred churches in
the United Kingdom, looks upon mediums as the instruments through whom may come
evidences of discarnate activity, and messages, and exhortations from a larger spiritual
world. Whether the claim of the Spiritualist be admitted or not, it cannot be gainsaid that
there are hundreds of thousands of law abiding citizens in this country who are satisfied
that mediumship is a valuable asset in the experimental investigation of the human
consciousness and its possibilities here and hereafter, and in their religious and moral life.
The Deputation would point out that the possession of the psychic faculty, which makes
mediumship possible, is a perfectly natural and spontaneous one, which cannot be
conferred upon anyone, but which is a part of the personality of susceptible persons. In a
word, a medium is born, and not made, except in so far as those who possess the natural
faculty may be trained, just as a musician or an artist must be trained. There is a growing
recognition of the existence of this faculty, and of its value. It would not be difficult to cite
cases in which the police have had recourse to mediums in cases of difficulty, and the
speaker has been associated in one or two such cases. On the other hand, it would not be
difficult to cite cases where medical men in times of stress and emergency have been
materially aided and helped by recourse to individuals possessing the psychic faculty. We
believe that the investigation made possible through mediumship is opening to scientific
243
study a field which will aid in defining the nature of human personality and its
potentialities, while there are many of us who believe that psychical investigation can help
to solve the problem of the ages, namely, the nature of death and the post mortem states of
life.
Now, the Spiritualists of this country labour under material disabilities which are
hindering investigation and restricting the religious freedom of the King’s subjects. Under
the Witchcraft Act, 1735,32
and the Vagrancy Act of 1824, mediums are liable to
prosecution, and are frequently prosecuted and convicted. Section 4 of the Witchcraft Act,
1735, lays it down: “Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that if any person
shall, from and after the 24th day of June, ‘pretend to exercise or use any kind of
witchcraft, sorcery, enchantment, or conjuration,’ or undertake to tell fortunes... every
person so offending, being thereof lawfully convicted on indictment or information in that
part of Great Britain called England, or on indictment or libel in that part of, Great Britain
called Scotland, shall for every such offence suffer imprisonment by the space of one
whole year without bail or mainprize, and once in every quarter of the said year in some
market town of the proper county on the market day there stand openly on the pillory by
the space of one hour, and also shall (if the Court by which such judgment shall be given
shall think fit) be obliged to give sureties for his or her good behaviour in such sum, and for
such time, as the said Court shall judge proper,” etc. The Witchcraft Act virtually claims
that there are no spirits, there is only pretence, and that any one claiming to hold
communication with spirits is from the very nature of the case pretending. The very title of
the Witchcraft Act is its own refutation, and in practice it has been superseded by the
Vagrancy Act.
The Act which is generally brought into operation is the Vagrancy Act of 1824, and the
decision in Monck v. Hilton, 1877, has very largely influenced the administration of this
Act ever since. May I quote Section 4 of the Vagrancy Act, 1824: “Every person
pretending or professing to tell fortunes, or using any subtle craft, means or device, by
palmistry or otherwise, to deceive and impose on any of His Majesty’s subjects... shall be
32
At this time it was primarily the Vagrancy Act which needed to be amended. The accused medium was
not entitled to be tried by a jury, as under British law trial by jury was only applicable if the maximum
sentence for any offence was beyond three months. Under the Vagrancy Act the maximum penalty was of
hard labour imprisonment and not exceeding three months. The Witchcraft Act 1735, had not been used on
any Spiritualist medium at this time, but on Wednesday January 19, 1944 Helen Duncan was arrested.
Initially charged under section 4 of the Vagrancy Act and refused bail. The charge was later changed to
conspiracy to defraud, but the prosecution needed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that monies had been
paid to see materialised spirits. At a private meeting between prosecutors, John Maude, Henry Elam and the
Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) found a single clause in an obsolete statute: Section 4 of the 1735
Witchcraft Act. Charging Duncan with:—Conspiracy to contravene the Witchcraft Act 1735, she would be
the first ‘Spiritualist Medium’ to be charged under this Act and the first to be tried by a jury, and eligible
for a sentence exceeding three months, as would have been the maximum under the Vagrancy Act. Duncan
to my knowledge is the only Spiritualist medium to go to prison under this act, she was sentenced to nine
months imprisonment. PJG
244
deemed a rogue and vagabond within the true intent and meaning of this Act.” In Monck v.
Hilton the charge was not fortune telling, but “using any subtle craft, means or device, by
palmistry or otherwise.” Monck was convicted, because the justices on the bench said that
there was no need to prove an attempt to deceive.
The Deputation most respectfully submits that since Spiritualism and psychical
research in this country date from 1850, an Act of 1824 could not possibly have
contemplated the psychical activities against which the Act is so frequently used. It is
obvious from the very title, “the Vagrancy Act.” that it was intended to apply (in times far
different from these) to the vagrant gipsy who went from door to door (very often back
doors) imposing upon the ignorant classes, servants and suchlike, and often instilling into
them superstitious fears. It must not be forgotten, sir, that these were times when the
education of the masses was an unknown thing, and when pretenders who claimed strange
powers struck terror into the hearts of the credulous. We are living in different times. To
apply the term Vagrant and Vagabond to an individual who has a permanent residence,
and is often the owner of the house in which he lives, is an anomaly which surely speaks
for itself. It is obvious that such Acts were never intended to apply either to those who
serve a bona fide and legally registered religious body, or to those who serve a scientific
body comprising a large number of learned professors, whose investigations are
conducted along purely scientific lines. It is submitted that the Vagrancy Act is an
extremely difficult Act to administer. The speaker has interviewed quite a number of
Chief Constables, individually, and led a deputation which waited upon the Chief
Constables’ Association some years ago at the Hotel Waldorf, and a number of Chief
Constables have admitted in conversation that the Act is an antiquated one, is out of date,
and is difficult to administer, and should be simplified and better defined. Those are the
admissions of the authorities themselves.
Again, the Act is intended to protect the public, but we would stress the fact that the
Act is never put into operation save by the police, and then only through “agents
provocateur.” A careful reading of the Act suggests that the police take action on the
complaint of the common informer, but we ask you to note that there has never, to our
knowledge, been a case in which any member of the general public has gone into court
and said that he was either injured, deceived or cheated. We have no evidence that there
have ever been bona fide complaints by the general public, although we have heard
statements to that effect. No witnesses have ever been put into the box other than “agents
provocateur” employed by the police. Without such, presumably at the instigation of
unnamed persons in the background, “agents provocateur,” we are certain the authorities
would have no case. Sittings are often held in private, and no one is present but the police
agent and the medium. There is generally a total denial by the medium of the evidence
given by the police agent, and since there are only two persons present, corroboration is
virtually an impossibility, save in so far as one sitting may offer corroboration of a
previous one. There is, generally, a total denial by the medium of the evidence given, but
the evidence of the paid police agent is always taken, generally without corroboration. We
have reason to believe that in some cases “agents provocateur” have visited mediums ten
or a dozen times, and, failing to find evidence in his ordinary practice, have deliberately
put leading questions to such medium for the purpose of extorting replies to questions,
245
and other information which would bring then within the law. This in practice is a distinct
incitement to break the law.
In an earlier part of my speech I stressed the point that Spiritualism to many of us has
deep and sacred religious implications. It goes without saying that such a movement,
which is building up a religious organisation, has excited - I do not want to be offensive -
but shall I say the antagonism, even the enmity of certain other churches. It is no secret
that a “Papal Bull” has been issued by the Roman Catholic Church against its practice,
and we have even reason to believe that if and when complaints have been received by
the police, such complaints have often emanated from one particular church, which has
been able thus to oppress others, while itself remaining unseen. We submit, sir, most
respectfully, that any act which lends itself to exploitation by one religious community for
the persecution of another is an unfair Act, which needs drastic revision.
Under the Act practically every form of mediumship has been declared illegal by the
Courts, and the tendency is for the power of restriction to increase. In the recent Cantlon
Case, the Secretary of a bona fide and legally registered organisation was prosecuted as
accessory, so that the police are not only attacking the mediums, but even the Societies
who employ them.33
Thus a new weapon was forged by which the officers of any Spiritualist Association,
acting in perfectly good faith, are equally liable to prosecution with the medium. The
press of the whole country took note of this case, and was strong in its condemnation of
the use of the police for these purposes. Several of the leading papers made it a matter for
editorial comment. The exercise of mediumship is claimed by Spiritualists as a means of
getting into contact with deceased friends and relatives. It must be obvious that when one
enters into communication with such deceased persons, the conversation is bound to deal
with either the past, the present, or the future. It is unthinkable, for instance, that a man
could converse with his deceased father without that father in some degree referring to
incidents in the life and prospects of his son. Such conversations, whether relating to the
past or to the future, have been held to be fortune telling, no matter how great may be the
evidence of the identity of the spirit one is communicating with.
I have alluded to the fact that mediumship is a natural faculty possessed by certain
individuals. The Societies represented here are urgently in need of good, reliable, tested
mediums, but there are hundreds of people possessing these valuable psychic faculties who
refuse to use and train them, because of the stigma which attaches to mediumship under the
law. These are generally the most valuable people we could have. They are people of
education, sensitiveness, and culture, and these very advantages hold them back from a
33
The Claire Frances Cantlon case in 1928 would show it was not just mediums who fell under the 1824
Vagrancy Act. The Secretary of the London Spiritualist Alliance (LSA), Miss Mercy Phillimore was
charged with aiding and abetting in the offence. This resulted in the LSA paying over £800.00 in costs. Sir
Oliver Lodge and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle spoke for the defence at Westminster Police Court. The
magistrate neither convicted nor acquitted Clair Cantlon and Mercy Phillimore; the decision really
amounted to finding them guilty and dealing with them under the First Offenders’ Act, whereby, although
discharged, they were condemned to pay the costs of the case. PJG
246
course of action which might bring them into the Courts. It appears that we are only getting
the most courageous, who are prepared to fight for moral right, or the more ignorant, or
worse still, the callous who seek cheap notoriety.
We would further like to point out that several magistrates, have openly protested upon
the Bench against having to put into operation an Act which they consider unfair, while
several have remarked that such prosecutions were both childish and trivial. When in 1896
the first appeal of any citizen convicted under these Acts in Scotland was brought before
the Scottish High Court of Justiciary in Edinburgh, Lord Young, in delivering judgment,
said that he had never heard or supposed that professed fortune telling by astrology or
palmistry or seership was an act of roguery or vagabondry. It was conceivable that such
professional fortune tellers might commit acts of roguery or vagabondry, but if so, these
acts ought to be stated and proved. So emphatic was his Lordship in his judgment that he
said, “I am informed that this is the first case that has occurred during the 25 years since the
Vagrancy Act was made applicable to Scotland, and I express the hope that it will be the
last attempted.”
We further submit that the law has been applied in such an uncertain and changeable
manner that gradually every defence has been whittled away. Mr. Justice Sankey, in the
Rex v. Davies case in 1917, held that an intention to deceive and impose on His Majesty’s
subjects was an essential ingredient in any offence under the Vagrancy Act. He pointed out
that this essential to criminality in fortune telling had already been decided in the historic
cases of Regina v. Entwistle, 1899, and Penny v. Hanson. It had previously been held in
Monck v. Hilton that there was no need to prove intent to deceive; the very claim to
communicate with spirits was in itself evidence of such intent.
Then there was the case of a Mrs. Bloodworth, who was hauled before Mr. Ralph
Bankes at Battersea for professing to tell fortunes. Mr. Bankes, in giving judgment, said, “I
absolutely think that the defendant believes she has the power of foretelling. Startling
though the decision may be to some, I shall dismiss the case.” At Brighton, Mrs. Taylor
Woodall, a clairvoyant and medium engaged by a Spiritualist Church, was conducting a
week’s mission. During her spare time she gave clairvoyant readings in the church hall to
persons desiring them. Her consultants dropped half-a-crown in the plate, and handed it
over to the Pastor of the Church, Mr. J. J. Goodwin, for the benefit of the Church funds. It
was not taken by Mrs. Woodall. Two women, the wife and sister of a Brighton detective,
solicited readings; they came, in fact, in widow’s weeds, and pretended to be in very
serious trouble, and subsequently the medium was prosecuted, and these two women gave
evidence. There were two different séances, and the medium totally denied the whole of the
statements. After retiring for half an hour, the Magistrates found both guilty, the medium
and Mr. Goodwin, and fined them each 40s., with 20s. costs, with the alternative of 9 days’
imprisonment. Mrs. Woodall at once paid her fine and costs, but Mr. Goodwin declined to
do so on principle, and elected to go to prison for 9 days. He expected to be conducted to
the cells, but he was told that he could go. The Court had not sufficient faith in its own
judgment to carry out its sentence: as an alternative they seized his goods.
247
Mr. Justice Channell, in the case of Regina v. Entwistle, said, “I think that in order that
there may be a conviction under this Statute in respect of fortune telling, it is necessary that
the thing should be done in order to deceive,” and this position was taken up by Mr. Justice
Sankey in Rex v. Davies. Mr. Justice Lawrence, in another case in 1921, says, “I cannot
reverse the decision on the claim that the intention to deceive was not necessarily to be
proved. The act of fortune telling is an offence in itself.” The fact is, that the law has been
vacillating and oscillating like a pendulum from side to side over a number of years, and I
submit that it is time the matter was settled by law, and not by the decisions of the Courts.
As in Biblical times there were priests and prophets, so we claim that our mediums are
the prophets of the modem church, and without them the spiritual voice is silenced. The
very phenomena of the Old and New Testaments, upon which the religion of this country is
based, is of exactly the same nature as that of modern psychical phenomena Yet while we
are trained to believe that such phenomena are sacred when located in the past, they
become illegal when indulged in in the present. There is scarcely a phase of mediumship,
whether clairvoyance, psychometry, prophecy, healing, writing, or spirit messages of any
description, which has not been held to be illegal, with the result that every medium who
practises is liable to prosecution, however honest, however conscientious, or however
genuine. I would like to say that the Spiritualists have already presented a petition to
Parliament, which was signed by 40,000 signatures, praying for relief from these
disabilities. That, I think, was received in February, 1928.
These are some of the legal disabilities under which we suffer as a result of the fact that
mediumship is continuously held to be illegal by the Courts of this country, but dependent
upon these decisions there are several civil disabilities. In Scotland, where we have a
number of Spiritualist Churches, the Registrar General for Scotland has deprived the
Spiritualists of the right, which they previously exercised unchallenged in common with
other religious bodies, of performing marriages through and by their recognised officials
and pastors. A Glasgow Registrar, to whom application was made before the performance
of an intended marriage, said that if performed by a Spiritualist pastor, the marriage could
not be registered, and in reply to a question in Parliament, we were merely told that we
could seek redress by a test action in court. We submit that to ask a young couple
entering upon life to contract the marriage tie, and then go into court for a declaration that
such marriage was legal, is to risk their whole moral reputation, as in the period between
their marriage and the findings of the Court they are virtually living in adultery. Surely,
the legal authorities know that no young couple could be expected to face such an
impossible position, and I submit most respectfully that a Parliamentary reply of that kind
seems to us both callous and inconsiderate.
Again, as the result of the case in re Hummeltenberg Beattie and the London
Spiritualist Alliance (1923, Chapter 237), it has been held that a gift by will for the
purpose of training mediums is not a valid charitable gift because mediumship is illegal.
As a result of this case the Spiritualists are held to be unable to receive legacies
bequeathed them when one of the objects of the gift is the training of mediums, and the
Charity Commissioners have refused to recognise as a charity a Spiritualistic body which
248
has been established for 30 years, and which has received money, because the training of
mediums has been stated in its Trust Deed as one of the objects of that body. One of the
consequences of such a position is that many charitably disposed Spiritualists will not
make such bequests for fear of their bequests being nullified. Our legal advisers are still
in a position of uncertainty as to whether we as a body have the power to hold churches,
which have been bought, built, and paid for by Spiritualists, upon religious and charitable
trusts. The present position is that it is by no means certain that a religious body,
consisting of 600 churches, has the right to own its own property, as trust property held
by trustees for religious and charitable purposes. Cases have arisen in which the right of
interment of Spiritualists in a church yard under the Burials Act of 1884 - I may not be
correct as to the date, I rather think it is 1885.
MR. ROBINSON: 1880
MR. OATEN: The right has been disputed, and in one case at Sheffield we had to take
the body of one of our old and faithful workers and deposit it in the grave, and walk away
without either a committal service or a word of prayer.34
Had our representatives insisted
upon forcing the issue, there would have occurred a breach of the peace, and they,
therefore (wrongly in my opinion) sacrificed their moral rights, rather than create a scene
at a funeral, and disturb the public peace. We ask you to say that such treatment is
intolerable. Such civil disabilities press heavily upon us, but my point is, that they all
depend upon the major factor that in law mediumship is illegal.
May I call your attention to the fact that in New Zealand the Government have passed
an Act of Parliament incorporating the Spiritualist Church of New Zealand, and entitling
it to hold its properties, and to deal with them on the same lines as other religious bodies.
In April, 1929, the Canadian National Association of Spiritualists were granted a charter
which enables them to work out the full development of mediumship under their own
constitution. In New York the law under which fortune telling persons have hitherto been
prosecuted, which was very largely a copy of the English law, was amended, and
provides that after September 1st 1929, such sections shall not apply to the incorporated
ecclesiastical Spiritualist Associations, nor to their duly licensed teachers and ministers,
all of whom are mediums, provided they are acting in good faith and without personal
fees.
Such is a broad outline of our case, and we cordially solicit your sympathetic
consideration, to the end that our disabilities may be removed, consistent always with the
protection of the public. If necessary, the Spiritualists would be prepared to set up some
method of control or registration of bona fide mediums. The whole history of the last 80
years shows that Spiritualists have been persistent and alert to denounce charlatanism
wherever it is found. It would not be an exaggeration to say that, apart from police
prosecutions, 80 per cent of mediums who have been denounced or exposed, have been
denounced or exposed by Spiritualists, but we submit that the amount of charlatanry,
34
“This may have been an influencing factor in ACD’s body, a few days later, being interred in a grave in
the gardens of the family home, Windlesham.” Garth Willey
249
cheating or fraud, is no greater amongst mediums than will be found in any other
department of life.
As a means, however, of overcoming the disabilities the Deputation has laid before you,
we beg to suggest the following amendment to Section 4 of the Witchcraft Act of 1735, and
Section 4 of the Vagrancy Act of 1824: “Provided always that there shall be expressly
excluded from the provision of this section all persons who may now or hereafter be bona
fide engaged in the science of Spiritualism or Psychic Research, or any similar scientific
investigation, or in any religious practice or service in connection with Spiritualism or
Psychic Research, or any similar scientific investigation, and no proceedings shall be
instituted, carried on, or maintained against any person acting or engaged in any such
science or scientific investigation as aforesaid, or in any such religious practice or service
as aforesaid, whether acting as a Spiritualist medium or otherwise, in the absence of proof
of a deliberate intention on the part of such person to deceive and impose upon any of His
Majesty’s subjects.”
That is the resolution we propose, and may I say, in conclusion, that the Deputation
recognises the complex nature of the whole question. It would court the setting up of a
Committee of Enquiry to investigate the whole subject, and would render every assistance
to such a Committee to enable it to formulate a just decision. At the last General Election
all candidates were circularised, and their attention drawn to the disabilities under which
Spiritualists suffer, and some hundreds of replies were received, many of which expressed
indignation that such a state of things should exist in a country which boasted religious and
scientific freedom. There are at least a hundred members in the House of Commons who
pledged themselves to consider carefully, and as far as possible, to remedy such disabilities.
Such, sir, is my case, and I respectfully request your serious and sympathetic
consideration.
THE HOME SECRETARY: Does anyone else wish to speak?
MR OATEN: I would like Mrs. De Crespigny to say a word or two on the scientific
side. She represents the Psychic College.
THE HOME SECRETARY: I think we had better have the whole case completed
before I say anything by way of reply or comment.
MRS. DE CRESPIGNY: Mr. Clynes and Gentlemen, I would only represent the
scientific side, because the religious side is more fully represented here, but it has become
an extremely difficult and abstruse science, I assure you, and I assure you that it requires
the very deepest study. It is not what many people think, merely ghost hunting; it is trying
to get to the bottom of certain phenomena that we know takes place, and what makes these
peculiar members of society whom we call mediums. If it would enlighten you a little tiny
bit as to the understanding of what these mediums may be, I would say that they are
members of the community who are able to tune in, which we all understand now, their
250
consciousness to the wave length to which a normal person is absolutely dead, and through
that to get into communication with a condition of matter to which the ordinary person is
unable to respond. That is the line along which the scientific side of the investigation goes,
and we look upon that as being the foundation upon which the religious side is more or less
built; I would say not only the religious side of Spiritualism, but the side upon which the
whole of Christianity is built. It is those laws that the science side of psychic research is
trying to fathom, and this prohibition of mediums is hampering us in our work in the same
way as it does on the religious side. We have now got what they call methodology, and a
certain amount of stabilisation of production of phenomena, which entitle us to be
considered amongst the orthodox sciences. That is the way all science has begun, by guess
work; we have got past the stage of guess work into this methodical method of procedure,
and if we cannot have our instruments, which are these delicately poised things that we call
mediums - they are the instruments through which we have to make our experiments and
produce all our phenomena - we cannot progress. That, I think, is, just roughly speaking,
what I would call the scientific side of it.
MR HANNEN SWAFFER: Mr. Clynes and Gentlemen, I would just like to put in a few
words, if I may - the point of view of an ordinary man of the world, who finds himself
impelled to join the Spiritualist movement. I received this morning in my ordinary post-bag
three letters from bereaved people. Sometimes, after addressing a meeting, I receive as
many as twenty in the course of a day. Sir Arthur will tell you that after his long crusades
on behalf of our movement, he has received hundreds of letters, and we find ourselves
unable to deal with hundreds of the cases that are forced under our notice. I have been
holding in my own home for some months now a series of séances at which only amateur
mediums, have been present, and these have given comfort to scores and scores of people.
People to-day are demanding proof of things which formerly they were content to believe. I
could be of great service to people in this troubled age but for the fact that owing to a
stupid and ridiculous and old-fashioned law, mediumship, which we consider sacred, is still
illegal. That is my position.
REV. DRAYTON THOMAS: Mr. Clynes and Gentlemen, it was thought by the
Deputation in consultation that a special word might be said from the religious point of
view. We desire that the law should be so amended that those who interpret it shall
discriminate between the genuine and the counterfeit. Mediumship is Heaven’s gift, that is
our attitude, and where that gift has been duly trained, and is being discreetly used, we have
a human instrument by which God can bring to earth something which society deeply
needs. There is reason for believing that of the numerous suicides committed every day that
passes in these islands of ours, several of them result immediately from hopeless
depression following bereavement, and this is often combined unfortunately with an entire
disbelief in any life beyond the present one. Half an hour with a gifted medium would have
saved those people, and that assertion is founded on several years of personal work with
mediums during which I have seen possible suicides saved. The question is one which
touches the religious convictions of great multitude at the present day. They are people who
know from experience that mediumship provides present-day evidence for the reality of life
beyond death. If we remove belief in an after-life, what is there left of religion? All religion
worthy of the name is broad based on a belief that this life is but a school-time for
251
something greater beyond. Philosophy provides us no certainty for that belief. Its
conclusions have left the question an open one, and all refer us to authority or to ancient
history as the case may be, and this as we all know happily seems to be quite sufficient for
the many; but even if it were sufficient for the majority, there remains a big minority with
that type of mind which must have evidence upon which to base character and religion.
There are tens of thousands of us experimentally convinced that we have found this
certainty, and we found it while conversing with friends beyond death, and we conversed
with them through the channel called mediumship.
Spiritualistic churches are largely composed of people who have been brought back to
religion through personal evidence obtained in this way, and it is because they ardently
desire for others the same blessing, that they are so earnestly pleading with you for the
removal of the legal stigma which rests upon genuine mediumship. The present
interpretation of the law discourages many sensitive souls from exercising their gifts
professionally, and that means in other words that it prevents them from using their gifts for
the public good. I know clergymen and Free Church ministers who would most gladly
make a judicious use of such gifted people, but they cannot find them, good mediums are
all too few. If I may say so, I mean no disrespect to the cloth; it is my profound conviction
that one Heaven-gifted medium is of more value than many Bishops. We believe that
Spiritualism has a great contribution to make towards the moral and spiritual uplift of
society. We are equally convinced that mediumship is an absolutely indispensable
instrument by which that movement must advance. The question of legal status for genuine
mediumship is therefore a matter of deep and burning religious conviction with us. It has
been said, and we all feel the difficulties that meet you and your colleagues in touching this
subject, that the difficulty is the fraudulent medium. We say: Let the fraudulent medium be
dealt with as you would deal with fraudulent solicitors or bogus clergy-men. We submit
respectfully that sound law should discriminate between the good and the bad.
MR. OATEN: Mr. Clynes, that completes our case.
REPLY
THE HOME SECRETARY: Sir Arthur, ladies and gentlemen, let me first say that I
give you welcome to state your case, and meet you with a feeling of complete respect in
hearing that case, and with the deepest sympathy as regards your consciousness of
grievance. As to the evidence of grievance under which you are labouring, you have left
me in no doubt. Mr. Oaten read a very long statement, but not too long, when we
consider the case he had to state, and remember the narrative of fact and the argument of
that case, I am not at all complaining. The Deputation represents a far wider International
organisation of Spiritualist bodies than I had any notion of before I saw the list. The titles
vary, but, broadly speaking, the organisations exist, I suppose, to cover the two lines of
the scientific and the religious in different parts of the world.
MR. OATEN: YES.
252
THE HOME SECRETARY: There are two or three matters of detail upon which I
would like to go back, as expressed in the paper read by Mr. Oaten. Let me first remind
you that, as regards the law, it is the law for all. I imagine that it was not specially passed
with a view to placing Spiritualists of to-day under any legal disability, but you, in
answer, might say that in practice it is only the Spiritualists who come under the
disabilities of the law as the law now is. Mr. Oaten read in his paper a very long
paragraph, or resolution, and mentioned three Acts of Parliament passed in a previous
generation, and, indeed, in a previous century, but, as I am advised, that resolution or the
clause, if it became law, would still leave two of those Acts untouched, and would relate
only to one of the three Acts which now provide the disabilities under which you labour.
For the Home Office, it might be said in respect to that part of Mr. Oaten’s paper where
he used the word “callous,” that the Home Secretary has nothing whatever to do with
Scottish law or its operation as expressed through the Scottish Courts. Another adjective
in Mr. Oaten’s paper by way of allegation was, that the proceedings were “frequently”
taken in certain cases. Well, I was under the impression that that was not so, and that
trouble, so far as it was brought into Court, was only in the rarest instance, but if there are
frequently instances of these difficulties arising which bring you into the Courts, then it
seems to me your case is stronger on the facts, and if you have them, they might very
well be adduced. Then reference is made to police agents. While technically, as head of
the Metropolitan Police, I would not like to be under the stigma of employing agents to
procure breaches of the law, at the same time it is the obligation resting upon the police to
see that the law is enforced. Do I understand under this head that your case is, that so far
as prosecution ever might arise, it should arise only where some member of the public
takes the initiative, and that the police ought not, within the law, to have any right
themselves to act in initiating proceedings.
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE: That is my own feeling.
THE HOME SECRETARY: Again, taking a case where the Court has to decide, no
matter whether the initiative for the prosecution has come from a member of the public or
from the Police, do I gather that you distrust the decisions of the Courts, and that you
cannot feel at all confident that you are getting fair play from the decision of the Court.
Setting aside the origin of the prosecution, the substantial point is the trustworthiness of
the Courts in relation to the law as it is. As to changing the law, that is another matter.
MR OATEN: My own opinion is that while there are exceptional cases where we get a
biased Court, those are so negligible in quantity that they are not worth considering.
Where, I think, we are not getting justice, is that when “agents provocateur” are used, we
are not satisfied that their evidence is true and reliable evidence. The Vagrancy Act says
that a person shall be convicted on the evidence of a credible witness or witnesses. The
question arises: Is a paid police agent a credible witness without corroboration. I do not
object to using “agents provocateur” if in addition, there was to be some other person, some
member of the public to corroborate the evidence.
253
THE HOME SECRETARY: Still there is the point whether, under all the
circumstances, a British Court can be trusted on the facts, as presented and in relation to the
law as it now is, to reach a fair decision so far as it is possible for any of us to be fair in this
matter. For myself, I would like to say that the Deputation is all the more welcome, because
personally I want to see the most complete tolerance of freedom towards every tendency
and every disposition of either individual or organised religion. I want to see most complete
freedom, and there is nothing more hateful to me than any kind of interference with
people’s tendencies of conscience in these matters, but the law is what it is, and the duty of
the poor Home Secretary is to administer the law; at any rate, he is technically responsible
for many aspects of its administration. That brings me finally to the question of method. I
think there was a faint hint of something like an enquiry.
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE: It was made by Mr. Oaten.
THE HOME SECRETARY: I believe that aspect of it has been brought forward before,
and the answer put has been that there is a quicker way, that quicker way being for all these
organisations to be organised by methods Mr. Kelly very well understands in the House of
Commons, and to take the initiative by framing a Bill that would cover the purpose, and
arranging to get that Bill introduced by some private member. I know that that is a line
which is not always fraught with success, but sometimes it is; there is a consciousness in
the House of Commons, no matter what its political complexion in these days, and I think
you will find the present day House of Commons much more inclined to consider that
freedom and tolerance to which I have referred, than was so a few generations ago. If you
take that step, I can only say for the present Government that we would meet you with
every sympathy, and see that, so far as the Government can, no difficulty was placed in
your way of having your case fully ventilated in the House of Commons. I can only submit
that to you, because as a rule in these days, in all such matters as these, that is matters
affecting just single groups of people or organisations or societies, the first step is the step
of a Bill introduced by a private member. Indeed, there is much more freedom now for
private members, and much more time placed at their disposal, than was the case in former
years. I rather think that there is not enough Parliamentary time left to a Government for
legislation. There are a large number - I forget now the number - of Fridays and week-days
in the first few months of a session, in which private members have more time for taking
action on these matters than the Government itself.
Ladies and gentlemen, that is about all I can say on the method. There is one other point.
Would you just tell me a little more on that point about control which was the word used in
your statement I would like to know more clearly how, supposing something were done
under that head, you could take steps effectively to control those who would be acting for
you.
MR OATEN: Speaking in the first place as the President of the International Federation,
which governs Spiritualistic branches in 28 different countries, and secondly, as past
President of the Spiritualists’ National Union of Great Britain. In the Spiritualists National
Union we have had in operation for 10 years a system of licensing mediums by
examination. Those licences exist. We license under various heads; some are licensed as
254
speakers. I would like to place before you my own annual certificate. (Handed.) There is a
large framed certificate, but those are my own credentials as a speaker for the movement.
Then we license clairvoyants, and we have granted licences to physical mediums, and so
forth, but although we are doing this, we remember that we are merely preparing for
future generations, because we know that if any of our mediums, however bona fide, are
attacked under this Act, they are bound to go under. There is no gainsaying that, in spite
of the fact of their licence and their genuineness. We have already a Spiritualists’
National Union who have put a scheme into operation, and, I imagine, that the scientific
section and various other sections, might be prepared to put such a scheme into operation
under their own organisations. I might suggest as a theoretical way of meeting the
difficulty, that these various sections and organisations unite to establish a national panel,
so that each section may license its own mediums for working within its own domain,
and, having got the local licence, they should be commanded to a national panel, who
could issue a national certificate, just as the British Medical Association or some other
bodies do, such licences only to be issued after examination and evidence. I think such a
scheme could be worked out; it may be cumbrous, and it may take a long time to get into
operation, but I again insist that our trouble is the suspicion we have that “agents
provocateur” are not true witnesses in the box. That is our difficulty.
THE HOME SECRETARY: May we close the discussion with just this statement I
would like to read it. It covers some part of the comments I have already offered, and it
officially expresses, so far as I can state the Home office view, our answer on the main
and central matter. “It is quite inconceivable that the law would ever be invoked for the
purpose of interfering with scientific research into psychical phenomena. The sole
function of the Government in this matter is to protect the public against fraud,
imposture, and mental terrorisation. In every large community there are numbers of
ignorant and credulous people who would be willing to part with their money in order
to have their fortunes read, and would place implicit reliance on what was revealed.
Parliament has not yet been seized of the various matters to which the Spiritualists have
called attention, and it seems to be the duty of the Spiritualists themselves, who alone
have any real knowledge of the organisation of Spiritualists, their needs and difficulties,
to prepare a Bill, as they have been invited to do several times, which would:-
1. Define the qualification of mediums;
2. Provide rules for the governance of their conduct; and
3. Indicate specific immunities which Spiritualists would wish to see conferred upon
them.
If such a Bill were prepared and introduced into Parliament the Government would
give sympathetic consideration to it.
That, ladies and gentlemen, is as much to-day as I can say to you. If this paper is to be
left, I would like, at greater leisure, to look at one or two of the points in it, and should
anything else occur to me, I shall be glad to communicate with you.
255
MR. KELLY: Mr. Clynes, I want to thank you for receiving the Deputation, and I
think I ought to say that what is felt about it, certainly what I feel about it - is that the
suggestion with regard to a Bill, and the sympathy expressed, are such that we hope, at
any rate, it will - may I use the word? - materialise before long, and that that freedom
with which, if you will allow me to say it here, you and I have fought for all the years we
have been engaged in fighting, will be an advantage. I thank you for receiving the
Deputation.
The proceedings then terminated.
――§――
Chapter III
Characters of the Bible
Note by LP: We here present further extracts from Mr Trethewy’s book,35
and here
conclude the third chapter. More evidence is offered which interprets biblical prophets as
inspired by others who lived before them, in a chain of inspiration. . One or two
communicators do not have much to say, which perhaps reduces their credibility. . The
most notable absentees, who did not communicate with this medium, are the apostle
Paul, and the first three traditional authors of gospels, Matthew, Mark and Luke.
Continued from the last issue:
ELIJAH (PRECEPTOR)
Elijah, to whom Imperator frequently referred as his “Great Master,” was said to
have been directing the movement in the background under the leadership of Jesus.
(See extract from Book VI. copied below.) He was seen clairvoyantly and in a
vision (Book XXIII., January 4th, 1880) by Stainton Moses, was said by Imperator
to give advice occasionally, and on May 27th, 1876, in Book XX., signed a
communication under the name of “Preceptor,” giving his blessing also. In the vision he
“presented a most commanding appearance; and gave one the idea of indomitable
power. His stature was commanding, and his frame of massive build, the head specially
large and striking. The features were bold and pronounced, and the face was one of
rugged power, vigour and determination.”
35
From The “Controls” of Stainton Moses pages 35-43
256
His earth life is noticed in Book VIII.―November 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 1873―a much
edited version of which has been printed in Section XXIII of Spirit Teachings. He is
credited with very high mediumistic powers, and was regarded as a link between Moses
and Malachi in the chain of spirit influence which extended from Melchizedek to Jesus.
His translation to heaven in a chariot of fire is said to be a legend in harmony with the
ignorance of the age.
His association with Malachi as that prophet’s spirit-guide has been mentioned on
page 26. In Book VI., on August 29th, 1873, Imperator returned to the subject:
“We have already said that two great spirits have been intimately associated
with every such movement as this. Moses and Elijah. My immediate inspiration
has been derived from my great master Elijah. He it is who has ever inspired in
me whatever of great and noble I have imagined. He it was who animated me
when I trod your earth, and he it is who through me influences you. But he and
we all act in direct subordination to that exalted spirit whom men call Jesus.”
On October 4th, 1873, Book VII., he was represented by Imperator as having urged
him to furnish further evidence for the satisfaction of Stainton Moses.
He manifested at the séance of February 24th, 1878. (Light of August 5th, 1893.)
HAGGAI (THE PROPHET)
There was a scraping sound at the séance
of December 31st, 1873, and the name
“Haggai” was rapped out; the next day the
same name was written under the table with
Rector’s name at a séance. On January 7th,
1874, Haggai showed a light, in the form of a
stick two or three inches long, and tried
unsuccessfully to control Stainton Moses. On
January 9th and 11th the light was shown
again moving about rapidly; he was said to
have been instructed in the use of it by
Mentor. On the 11th he was also seen
clairvoyantly by Stainton Moses. On the 14th,
in Book IX., an unknown spirit made a rough
drawing of a cross and wrote under it: “Hail!
a word of fatherly greeting,” signing under it
the letter “H” with a rough star. (See Plate II.,
p. 39.) Stainton Moses made the following
note under the signature:
“The writing was quite different from
that which is usually written. The hand moved about in a fidgetty [ sic-Trethewy]
way, and the star was elaborately drawn and corrected.”
257
Prudens, who was in charge at the time, then wrote:
“The old man is unable to write though he wishes much to communicate.”
On January 17th there were again curious drawings and writing like drawing.
Stainton Moses asked who did it, saying that it was quite different from the usual
control; his hand shook and the whole arm seemed to quiver. The reply was: “It is new
as yet.― [Drawing of a star] Prophet.”
Asked who he was, the spirit replied: “H. know me as the Prophet.” Then to show
his skill he wrote a few words with great rapidity, and having exhausted his power gave
place to Prudens.
Haggai, who was a contemporary of Malachi, was designated in his lifetime as “The
Prophet.” (See article on Book of Ezra in Smith’s Dictionary of the Bible.) On
January 18th, Book IX., Imperator, in explaining the future course of instruction, said:
“I have specially secured the presence and powerful assistance of two who
lived with me on earth and who, in conjunction with me, will now labour in the
work which is laid upon me. Neither will be alone, nor will the communications
made be referable to any one specially unless it be so stated: but all together will
labour to give you true views of God and of the revelation of Him which you
have in the Bible. We do not desire that great names be bandied to and fro. The
teachings on the Old Testament will be given by myself and will be signed by me
or by Propheta [sic] and Vates. These are the names which the intelligences who
aid me will assume in the communing with you.”
He signed communications several times jointly with Imperator and others (see
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XI., p. 41), but never gave independent teaching. His display
with his light was a prominent feature at several séances in the early months of 1874 (see
pp. 36-43 id.); he used the flashes to answer questions; otherwise he could not help with
phenomena, as he did not understand the management of the power. He was seen
clairvoyantly on several occasions, and his appearance is described on page 36 id. “The
face of an old man with a long beard and moustache, deep-set eyes and a large massive
brow;” he wore a coronet with a bright star in it. Two photographs of him were obtained
at Hudson’s (Séance Book No. 5, January 8th, 1875). On pp. 36, 37 of S.P.R., Vol. XI., is
an account of a vision in which Stainton Moses visited the second sphere in his charge
and saw “Grandmother Stainton.” This was the only occasion on which he was charged
with important work. His performances at séances and his feats with the pen are almost
suggestive of frivolity, hardly in keeping with his appearance or with his traditional
manner as shown in his writing in the scriptures. He did, however, give an appropriate
address when controlling Stainton Moses early in January, 1875. (Light of April 15th,
1893.)
258
DANIEL (VATES―THE SEER)
At the séances of February 11th-14th, 1874 (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XI., pp.
39, 40), Vates manifested with a peculiar knock not unlike Imperator’s, and
attempted a control without success; he was also seen clairvoyantly by Stainton
Moses in the guise of a young and beautiful spirit.
On November 10th, 1873, in Book IX., Imperator stated that he had
accompanied the prophet Daniel when the latter, who was a “powerful recipient of
spirit agency,” saw his great vision and received his commission from Gabriel and
Michael. In the passage of January 18th, 1874, quoted above with reference to
Haggai, he referred to Vates as a contemporary of his own. On April 9th, 1874, in
Book XII., he said that Gabriel, “as we have already said, was the bearer to Vates
of his commission during his earth life.” From these passages it is clear that Vates
was the prophet Daniel. Like Haggai, he did no independent work, but signed
communications (“Vates,” in thick writing) with Imperator and others.
The record of a séance printed on page 237 of Light for 1893 shows that on March
4th, 1875, Vates wished to control Stainton Moses, but was not allowed by Imperator,
who asserted his authority in the interest of the medium’s health.
In March, 1875 (see Book XV.), two portraits of Vates were drawn automatically by
Stainton Moses, under the guidance of Doctor and Kabbila. One of these may have been
preserved, but cannot be identified with certainty.
EZEKIEL
On April 11th, 1875, in Book XVI., Stainton Moses asked whose portrait was a
head automatically drawn by him. He was told that it represented “The Son of
Man,” the name by which Ezekiel was styled in the Bible. The message was
written in straggling printed characters and signed with an “E.” Ezekiel made no
communications independently, but signed some jointly with other spirits.
ST. JOHN THE BAPTIST (THEOPHILUS)
On November 5th, 1873 (Book VIII.) (see page 27 above in the notice concerning
Imperator), it was said that in his earth life John the Baptist was a medium under the
control of Imperator. At the end of that message a promise was made to Stainton Moses
that he should have communication with John. This promise was repeated in the message
of January 18th, 1874 (Book IX.), part of which has already been quoted with reference
to Haggai. The quotation is continued:
“Rector, in dealing with the later revelations, will be assisted by three spirits
who know and can teach you aright. They lived near to the time when Jesus
taught and knew and learned His pure and elevated teaching. From the highest
259
spheres of knowledge these three will come to continue the work of teaching
souls. Theophilus, Theologus and Theosophus will they name themselves.”
At the séance of January 26th, 1874 (the account in the S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol.
XI., p. 37, has been expurgated), Theophilus manifested with a sound like the roll of a
drum and was said by Imperator to have been John the Baptist. He was seen clairvoyantly
by Stainton Moses, wearing a crown with a cross in the centre.
He controlled Stainton Moses (Book XV., February 1st, 1875) just after the
photograph of the latter’s spirit in Paris, and Imperator seems to have considered the
inspired address more important than the photographic experiment; the subject was
Spiritualism as a new revelation, a parallel between the time of Jesus and the present day.
On several occasions he gave independent teaching, chiefly on subjects connected
with Christianity, e.g., in Book XI., on April 5th, Easter, 1874 (see Spirit Teachings,
pp. 245, 246). and on Easter Day, 1875, in Book XV. (see Spirit Teachings, pp. 249-
255). Stainton Moses’ notes on pp. 245 and 249, which imply that Theophilus wrote for
the first time on Easter Day, 1875, were due to an oversight. In the first few pages of
Book XII. he discussed the ingredient of Truth in all religions. He used Rector as scribe
and signed “Theophilus” in a straggling hand. He signed several communications
jointly with Imperator and others, e.g., the greater part of Section XXXII. of Spirit
Teachings.
ST. JOHN THE APOSTLE AND ST. JOHN THE DIVINE
(THEOSOPHUS AND THEOLOGUS)
These two spirits are mentioned in the communication quoted above, with reference
to Theophilus, from Book IX. They with others signed a communication of March 6th,
1875, in Book XV., dealing chiefly with the imperfect knowledge and erroneous beliefs
of spirits. The next day Imperator said that Theosophus was “especially useful in
informing your mind on religious matters.”
On Easter Day, 1875, in Book XV. Stainton Moses wrote: “I have forgotten who
Theosophus and Theologus are.” The reply, signed by Theophilus and others, was:
“You have not been informed as yet. You are in error is supposing that they
are those who are in your mind. We will inform you in due time. For the present
we have not authority: and you mind too much about names and things of earth.
Let your spirit soar about [above ?] them: and know that what you call facts are
oft of less import than the spiritual significance which underlies them.”
On March 4th, 1876 (Book XX.), Stainton Moses again wrote that he did not
remember who these two were. Imperator replied:
“It is not necessary to conceal from you that the spirits of whom you enquire
are the two Johns. John the Apostle who was the special friend of Jesus and John
the Divine or the seer one of whose visions or Revelations you have in the
260
closing book of your Bible. They have been long associated with us in our
work.”
Stainton Moses’ question as to the Gospel and Apocalypse having been written by
two different persons was answered in the affirmative. There is nothing new in this
assertion; there have been great controversies on the subject. (See Encyclopædia
Britannica (9th edition), Vol. XIII., p. 707, and Vol. XX., p. 5oo.)
From the order in which Stainton Moses put the names in his question, Theosophus
and Theologus, it would seem that the first was the Apostle and the second the Divine,
though the forms of the names suggest the contrary meaning. That this conclusion is
correct is indicated by the incident recorded in Book XX. At the end of the com-
munication of May 15th, 1876. Imperator and others, including these two spirits,
denounced the conduct of W. B., a suicide. (See page 279 of Spirit Teachings, where,
however, the end of the message has not been printed.) Stainton Moses, after seeing the
signatures, wrote: “You, too! I should have thought that denunciation out of your way.”
Rector replies for Theosophus “Love is well: but truth is better. It is true.” Stainton
Moses’ remark is more applicable to the Apostle than to the Divine.
A reference to St. John the Apostle as having accompanied Jesus in moments “of
chiefest exaltation,” contained in the Easter Message of 1877, is said in the original to
have been made on St. John’s authority. (See Spirit Teachings, pp. 261, 262.)
Except on the occasions mentioned above, Theosophus and Theologus took no overt
part in the instruction besides signing communications jointly with Imperator and
others.
――§――
261
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price
pages 294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan The Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review,
by Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press
Publications, England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9., available at
Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara
& Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007.
Paperback ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry
Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by
Barry H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-
945296-50-9., available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45
Psypioneer references by Leslie Price pages 39-42:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death,
by Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A)
2009. ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by
Barbara Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN:
0-06-056667-1., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
——§——
262
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web
site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
——§——
