{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9758","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n61_jun_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N61 June 1889","mylang":"de"}
No. LXI.-VOL. IV. JUliE, 1889.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCmCAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Memben and Aaaoclr.tee •• •• •• ••
Meeting of the Council •• •. .. .. •. . .
The Hour of General MeetfDp-ETIIIIfn« OT Afternoon
General MeetiJIg .. •. •• .• ..
MT. Hansen's Hnmotic Demonstmtlons ..
Antomatio WrltIDg:-Tbe cardoso Case ••
Caaea snpplied to the Lltemry Committee
Correspondence: Do Animals see Ghosts? .•
Internatlonal CoDg1"888 of ,Physiological Psychology ..
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
PAGE
..81
.. 81
.. 82
.. 82
..85
..86
.. 88
•• 94
..96
TALBOT, THE LADy EDMUND, 26, Curzon-street, Mayfair, London, W.
TALBOT, MRS., 19, Porchester-gardens, Bayswater, London, W.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
KLEIBER,* JOSEPH, St. Petersburg.
ASSOCIATES.
CROWE, W. LEADHA.lII, 24, ComwaJI-road, Westboume Park, W.
DARWIN, MRS. FRANCIS, Wychfield, Huntingdon-road, Camb~dge.
MEDICI, LA MARCHESA, Villa Emilia, Ricorboli, Florence.
MURRAY,* COLONEL HUGH H., R.A., 28, Gower-street, London, W.C.
O'NEILL, GREGORY LAMB, M.B., 140, Elizabeth-street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
WILLIA.lIIS, LADy, Llanfoist, Clifton Down, Bristol.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on May the 10th, the President
in the chair, at which the following members were also present;-
Professors W. F. Barrett and Oliver J. Lodge, Dr. A. T. Myers, and
Messrs. T. Barkworth, Walter Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, and F. Podmore.
Two new Members and five new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected.
In consequence of the forthcoming part of the Proceedings being
* Elected. at a meeting on May 31st, to be reported in the next number.
G
Digitized by Google
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June,l889.
larger than was anticipated (over 200 pages), it was agreed that the
published price should be 3s. instead of 2s. 6d.
The means by which the Meetings of the Society could be made of
greater interest to Members generally, and by which they might afford
more opportunity for conversation, and for Members becoming ac-
quainted 'with each other, engaged the attention of the Council. Some
suggestions were made which will be found embodied in a separate
paragraph.
Some other matters of routine business were attended to.
A Meeting of the Committee on Physical Phenomena was held on
the same day, at which the President, Professors Barrett and Lodge,
and Messrs. Crookes and F. W. H. Myers were present. It was
agreed that a review of Madame Home's book, D. D. Home, his Life
and Mission, should appear in the Journal for July.
THE HOUR OF GENERAL MEETINGS-EVENING
OR AFTERNOON.
It may be remembered that the hour of General Meetings was fixed
at 8.30 p.m. some years since, in accordance with what seemed the
general wish of Members. To this arrangement, however, there is the
drawback that little time is left at the close of a meeting for conversa-
tion or discussion, especially in the case of Members living at some
distance from the centre of London. It has, therefore, been proposed
that one, or both, of the winter meetings (generally held in November
and January) should be fixed for the afternoon, and that before or after
these meetings tea should be procurable by those who cared to remain.
The funds of the Society, which are already fully engaged by
printing and other necessary expenses, should not, it is thought, be
intrenched upon for refreshments. If the proposed arrangement is
decided on, therefore, a small charge will be made for the tea. The
Editor invites expressions of opinion on the subject.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town Hall on
Friday, May lOth, at 8.30 p.m., the President, Professor Sidgwick, in
the chair.
THE PRESIDENT gave an address on the Canons of Evidence in
Psychical Research, which it is intended to publish in a future number
of the Proceedings.
MR. MYERS, as Honorary Secretary, then read a paper by a lady
who wished to remain anonymous, describing some recent experiments
Digitized by GOL
June, 1889.] Jou/r'nal of Society for P8ychical Research. 83
in seeing visions in crystals or other reflecting surfaces. As this paper
will appear in full in Proceedings, Part XIV., almost simultaneously
with this we need not abstract it here.
MB. J. K. STEPHEN, in commenting on the paper, inquired, among
other things, whether the writer would not have got equally good
results if she had concentrated her mind by an effort of will without
the use of a reflecting surface, and alluded to the danger of stimulating
a superstitious attitude towards psychical phenomena. He also dwelt
on the possible connection between the power of visualising, which he
was inclined to think rare, and the seeing of hallucinations.
PROFESSOR BARRETT said he wholly disagreed with the last speaker.
The paper that had been read was, in his opinion, an extremely able
and important one, and the Society was to be congratulated on having
had this subject brought before them, for the first time, in a paper
marked with such admirable judgment, such wide research, and such
scientific caution. He regretted that the author had preferred to be
anonymous. He ventured to think, from the facts described in the
paper, that crystal-gazing was one form of incipient self-induced
hypnotism. Further inquiry and experiment in the spirit of this
paper might indicate that the singular psychical phenomena pre-
sented by crystal-gazing and the hypnotic trance had a common
origin. Among the Hindoos crystal-gazing is not uncommon, only,
instead of looking at a crystal, the subject gazes at a spot of a shiny-
black substance,-a carefully selected gum. Some interesting letters
on this subject, from an officer in India to Professor Piazzi Smyth,
had been forwarded to the speaker some years ago by Professor
Alexander Herschel, accompanied by a specimen of the "mystic gum,"
and possibly some extracts from these letters might be worth publica-
tion in the light -of the paper that had been read. There was one
point upon which "crystal-gazers" need to be on their guard, and
that was the optical effect known as "after-images." If a patch of
bright cloud or sky be gazed at attentively, and the eye then closed or
turned elsewhere, an extremely vivid series of colours are seen. These
" after-images" are of such brilliance, and their production ~o easy
a.nd harmless, that the experiment is well worth making. The red
glow described in one of the experiments in crystal-vision might
possibly have been an after-image of this kind. He made this slight
criticism with all deference, as the writer of this paper probably was
aware of illusions of this kind.
MB. J. G. BUTCHER expressed agreement with Mr. Stephen.
MB. F. A. FLOYER said that in viewing all these questions the
subjects must be regarded as morbid, and that the influence of the
experiments is likely to be bad on the mental or bodily health, though
G 2
Digitized by Google
84 Jov,'T"MJ, 01 80ciety lor Psychical Research. [June, 1889.
perhaps this influence might not be great or important. At all events
he thought great care was needed.
MR. ELTON called further attention to the possible connection of
crystal visions with hypnotism. He said that crystsls are good objects
for hypuotic "fixation," and inquired whether the author of the paper
on ary8~azing had any hypnotic symptoms. If so, the visions would
be hallucinations of a self-hypnotised person~ifrering, therefore, from
those got in other hypnotism, because the person's own memory or fancy,
and no operator, would supply the suggestion.
If not hypnotic, the question arose, under what class of phenomena
do the crystal visions come 7 They are not mere visions in the mind's
eye, because, unlike these, they are externalised, and cluster round an
outward point de repere-the crystal-in such a way as to impose on the
seer's belief, or, at any rate, upon the construction the seer's senses put
upon them; for they are seen "in the crystal."
Nor, again, are they like the hallucinations of the artist who could
project the figure of his sitters into the chair before him; for these,
unlike the crystal visions, could be summoned at will
Thus, the crystal visions, to sum up, seem of a kind scarcely
classified. They are "of such stuff as dreams are made of"-the
memories more or less sunken, the image-play more or less fantastic, of
the seer. Yet they have the further mark of being externalised, and
of clustering round a special object only, to which they come unbidden
and uncontrolled.
Touching the President's address, Mr. Elton remarked that experi-
ments like those of Mr. Davey suggest this further canon of research:
Even if certain phenomena can, in certain cases, not be ascribed to
known causes, yet, if we can imitate them with known causes, we have
done enough to dispose-till our imitation ceases to hold out-of
alleged supernormal causes.
MR. MATHEWS remarked that the effect of the magnifying glass on
the crystal vision might be due to suggestion, and could not be taken as
evidence of objectivity, as urged by a previous speaker. He also said,
referring to Mr. Floyer's remarks, that there seemed to be no reason
for regarding such faculties as crystal vision as morbid, unless all
departure from the normal type is to be regarded as morbid, so that
we are all more or less insane.
MR. FRY inquired whether the visions in the crystal were doubled by
pressure on the eyeball.
MR. MYBBS explained, in reply to this, that the writer of the paper
had tried this and other optical experiments, but that the immediate
vanishing of the vision with any movement of the eye made it very
difficult to carry them out. The experiment with the magnifying
!igili:ed by Google
June, 1889.] JO'IJ/rnal of Society jor Psychical Research. 85
glass only sometimes succeeded, and the magnifier had to be intro-
duced with extreme caution to avoid a disturbing effect. The writer of
the paper was not conscious of any hypnotic symptoms.
MR. HANSEN'S HYPNOTIC DEMONSTRATIONS.
The wish has been often expressed by variollS members of the Society
to have the opportunity of close observation of the more usual pheno-
mena of hypnotism under tr\lStworthy conditions and without the
inconveniences of a public meeting. That what are the limits of the
safe and prudent in the methods of hypnotism, as well as its possibilities
and advantages, should be thoroughly realised is eminently desirable;
and to forward this knowledge, and supply some experimental evidence,
a few members subscribed to engage a demonstrator, and an informal
meeting of members of the Society was held at the Westminster
Town Hall on Thursday evening, May 9th, to enable them and
friends whom they invited to witness a series of experiments by Mr.
Carl Hansen, of Copenhagen, the well-known hypnotiser. The chair
was taken by Mr. Podmore, who, in introducing Mr. Hansen, pointed
out that it was his remarkable success at Breslau which had called the
attention of Professor Heidenhain to the subject of hypnotism, in 1880,
and led to the publication of the interesting book by the Professor on
the subject. Seventeen persons presented themselves for experiment,
all of whom were unknown to Mr. Hansen and had not been hypnotised
before; 10 were found to be readily sensitive. The effects shown were
chiefly of the more familiar class; inhibition of speech and I:\ight,
obedience to suggestion, &c. Much interest was shown in the produc-
tion of unilateral catalepsy on the right side after passes made over the
left side of the subject's head, the right leg and arm being stiffened,
while the left side remained in a state of complete lethargy. An
attempt was made to control the pupil reflex by suggestion, the subject
being told that the room was becoming dark while a lighted candle was
brought up to within two inches of the eye. The only result, however,
appeared to be an oscillation of the pupil, which alternately contracted
and expanded slightly. An attempt to procure transference of taste
from the operator was not successful. One of the subjects, however,
showed great accuracy in judging time in the post-hypnotic state,
carrying out commands imposed upon him at exactly the specified
interval, with an error of, perhaps, less than five seconds. Very good
negative hallucinations were also produced-inability to see certain
specified persons, &c. About 100 members and their friends were
present.
A second meeting was held in the same place on Friday, May 17th.
The attendance of members and their friends was much larger than on
the previous occasion. Between 15 and 20 persons, amongst them five
ladies, presented themselves for experiment; of these, 11, of whom three
were young ladies, and five boys under 16, were found to be sensitive
on first trial.
Digitized by GOL
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. [June, 1889.
Various experiments were made to demonstrate rigidity, catalepsy,
a.westhesia, and unilateral catalepsy with lethargy and amesthesia of
the other side. The muscular force exerted by the hypnotised subjects
in sustaining a weight at arm's length was compared with that exerted
under similar conditions by a person in the normal state, greatly to
the advantage of the former.
The attempts to produce post-hypnotic suggestion after the lapse of
a stated time succeeded in several cases, and the inability of the subject,
on being awoke, to remember the terms of the command was tested by
the offer of money if he could repeat what had been told him. He
could not win the money. A post-hypnotic suggestion of sneezing failed
in one case-an adult-completely; and in another case produced-
after the prescribed interval-a series of movements which more nearly
resembled coughing than sneezing. Some amusing hallucinations were
imposed upon some of the subjects.
Finally an attempt was made to demonstrate thought-transference.
A screen was placed upon the stage so as to completely separate Mr.
Hansen from the subject, a boy about 14. In the first experiment Mr.
Hansen took some salt into his mouth. Asked what he could taste,
the boy replied that he could taste "something bitter-something like
salt." Mr. Hansen then rinsed his mouth out with water, and took
some gallic acid. The boy said he could taste water, but nothing else.
After rinsing his mouth again, Mr. Hansen took some saccharine.
The subject said it tasted "somethinglike medicine-something between
sour and sweet." As a final experiment, Mr. Hansen took some of
the drug rhubarb (Rheum) and the subject said he tasted "something
hot-like radishes." Experiments in the transference of pain produced
no sensation whatever in the subject.
Since it is probable that the interest aroused by Mr. Hansen's
demonstrations may tum the attention of members of our Society more
strongly in the direction of hypnotism, it seems desirable to conclude
with a word of warning against incautious experimenting in this
department. No line of investigation seems to us at present more
hopeful than this for our purposes, if pursued in a serious and scientific
manner; but it is for many reasons undesirable that the sensibility to
hypnotisation should be practised upon for mere amusement, or by
persons not possessed of the requisite knowledge.
AUTOMATIC WRITING :-THE CARDOSO CASE.
Readers of this Joumal may remember a remarkable case of auto-
matic writing, abstracted from Psychische Seudien of February, 1884, in
the Journal for September, 1886, and further explained by a letter from
M. Aksakof in the Joumal for January, 1887. The case was briefly
as follows. M. Aksakof had a long series of sittings with two near
relations of his own, Professor Boutlerof also being sometimes present.
A planchette, held by the two relations, pointed to letters in the Roman
Digitized by Google
JllDe,l889.) Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 87
and Russian alphabets. By this means the name of "Sardovy, Cardovy,
B. Cardosio," was given, with the motto 'II Emek habaccha" (the
Hebrew for vale of tears-though habacca is the proper spelling). M.
Aksakof was the only one of the party who knew any Hebrew, and he
gave reasons for believing that he had never known this particular
phrase. Although, therefore, he did not insist that the message
actually came from Fernando Cardoso (the correct name of the Jewish
Portuguese doctor intended), he nevertheless considered it clear that
some intelligence outside that of the sitters had been concerned in the
communication.
Some new facts have now come to light, which M. Aksakof has
detailed in Psychische Studien for March, 1889, and which strikingly
illustrate the difficulty of tracing the origin of messages given in this
manner. In the first place, there is now no doubt of the source from
which the quotation is derived. M. Aksakof tried in vain to find it in
such works of Cardoso's as the British Museum contains. But in March,
1885, Herr Wittig, sub-editor of Psychische Studien, accidentally read an
article in the Salon, Heft VI., 1885, in which "Emek habaccha" was
quoted as the motto of B. Cardomo (sic) and a reference given to
Wichmann's Die PoeB'ie der Sinnsprache und Devisen (Dusseldorf, 1882).
M. Aksakof examined this book, and found on pages 312, 313, the
motto" Emek habbacha" ascribed to B. Cardosio (sic). The coincidence
of the misspelling is in itself enough to indicate the origin of the
planchette message. But there is further proof; for Wichmann's
book contains two other mottoes which appeared in the planchette
messages. One is as follows, rp£Yopn, Ich waclw (the Greek mis-
spelt and mistranslated). This reappears in the planchette message
as Gregorei, mistranslated in another way as Custodite. Again in
Wichmann's book occurs the motto, "n piu bel fior ne coglie," loosely
paraphrased" So bleibt das Feinste." This motto reappears in the
messages, and is there paraphrased" Das Feinste uberlebt." Planchette,
however, was aware that gregorei was the second person singular of the
imperative and that the Latin word offered as a transalation was a
plural ;-but this M. Aksakof knew. Neither of the mediums knew
any Hebrew or Italian, but the young man knew a little Greek.
The source of the quotation thus definitely ascertained, the next point
was to find out whether any of the persons present could have seen
Wichmann's book. Professor Boutlerof is now dead; but it is plain
that the quotation cannot have come from his mind, as, though present
when the Hebrew words were given, he was not present when the Greek
and Italian words were given. No one of the other three could remem-
ber to have seen the book. The book, moreover, is a conspicuous Elne ;
making up for the deficiencies in its scholarship by brilliancy of colour
88 JO'u/T"nal 01 Society lOT Psychical Research. [June, 1889.
and gilding and largeness of type. Nevertheless it is conceivable that
it may have lain on some shop-counter, and that M. Aksakof or his
step-son may have turned over a few leaves ;-the lady who aided in
holding the planchette does not know the Greek alphabet and could
hardly have reproduced the rp.-yopn of the book. Against this possi-
bility M. Aksakof argues that to learn by heart the Hebrew and
Italian mottoes would take an appreciable effort of mind,-a.n act at
least of conscious attention.
To this argument the experiments in crystal-gazing recounted in
Proceedings, Part XIV., supply a completer answer than, perhaps, could
ever before have been given. "Miss X.," it will be remembered, saw
in the crystal a printed announcement of the death of a person well
known to her, forming a piece of news which she could be quite sure
that she had not consciously seen or heard. On searching, however,
she found that the announcement in the same, or nearly the same,
words had appeared in the outside sheet of the Times of the day before,
which she had held in her hands for a short time, without consciously
reading it. Thus the mere unconscious imprint of some three lines of
print on her retina had enabled those words to reappear in the "mes-
sage" externalised as a crystal vision, from some subconscious region of
her mind Now crystal-vision and planchette-writing are eminently
analogous phenomena; it is possible, therefore, to suppose that a
momentary glance at even foreign and uncomprehended words might
enable them to reappear in planchette's message.
This seems to me the most probable view, although I am aware that
in certain cases (as in some of "M. A. (Oxon.'s)" and in the Schiller case,
often before referred to) there is much difficultyin explaining the message
as a mere reproduction of words casually seen in a normal way. It may
be added that the characteristic levity and shiftiness of these automatic
messages was shown throughout. For instance, the soi-disant "spirit"
(who was the same on each occasion when a motto was given) asserted
that he had read "Gregorei" on.a coat of arms, and had got the Italian
quotation out of Tasso. F. W. H. M.
CASES SUPPLIED TO THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 829.
We have received the following from Professor Elliott Coues, of
Washington :-
PUBLICATION COMMITTEE, LoNDON SocIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
GENTLEMEN,-Among many cases which a.re within my knowledge, of the
possession a.nd exercise of certain psychic faculties on the part of persons
commonly called cla.irvoyant, I select one which I think will interest your
June. 1889.] JO'lJll"naJ, oj Society for P8ychical R.esearc'h. 89
Society, not on account of its mystery ornovelty, but of its extreme simplicity
and thorough authentication. The incident itself is of the most trivial
character, followed by no consequences whatever to the person to whom the
little accident occurred, and I can see no reason whyitshould have stimulated
a clairvoyant's faculties into activity, more than anyone of a thousand little
occurrences of any day ; unleBB it may be (as is indeed probable) that some
specially strong magnetic rapJKWf; existed between the unconscious "agent"
on the one hand and the surprised "percipient" on the other. Both parties
to this unexpected and unintended experiment in psychic science are well
known to me. Mrs. E. A. Conner, who kindly, at my request, allows the
use of her name, is widely known in this country as a writer and speaker of
no ordinary ability. The other lady desires to remain unknown by name,
but I can attest her rare psychical faculties and absolute integrity, after an
intimate acquaintance of several years' duration.
The case is simply this: In Washington,D.C.,January 14th,1889,between
2 and 3 p.m., Mrs. Conner is going up the steps of her residence, No. 217,
Delaware-avenue, carrying some papers. She stumbles, falls, is not hurt,
picks herself up, and enters the house.
At or about the same time-certainly within the hour, probably within 30
minutes, perhaps at the very moment-another lady, whom I will call Mrs.
B., is sitting sewing in her room, about Ii miles distant. The two ladies
are friends, though not of very long standing. They had walked together
the day before (Sunday, January 13th), but had not met this day (the 14th).
Mrs. B. "sees" the little accident in every detail. The vision or image is
minutely accurate (as it afterwards proves). NevertheleBB, it is so wholly
unexpected and unaccountable, that she doubts it were not a paBBing figment
of her imagination. But the mental impression is so strong that she keeps
thinking it over, and sits down and writes a letter to Mrs. Conner, which I
enclose. The letter is written, of course, without any communication what-
ever between the two ladies. Mrs. Conner receives itnext morning, Tuesday,
the 15th. I happened to call on Mrs. Conner that day, on another errand,
when she hands me the letter, and verifies it in every eBBential particular to
me verbally, from her side of the case. The little accident had happened
exactly as Mrs. B. described it from the clairvoyant image she perceived.
You are at liberty to use the letter for publication, only suppreBBing the
writer's name. Its naivete and spontaneousness, and obvious lack of any
possible afterthought, re1lect the occurrence so perfectly that what I have
written would be superfluous, were it not that I thus am able to attest, from
Mrs. Conner herself, that the psychical impreBBion made on Mrs. B. was the
exact reflection of an actual occurrence.-Very truly yours,
ELLIOTT CoUBS.
1726, N.-street, N.W., Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
JatrIII.U1.ry 21st, 1889.
The letter referred to is as follows:-
Monday Evening, JQIWlI,Q,ry 14th, 1889.
My DEAR FRIEND,-I know you will be surprised to receive a note from
me so soon, but not more so than I was to-day when you were shown to me
Digitized by Google
90 JO'IJII"IU1l, of Society for Psychical, Research. [June, 1889.
clairVoyantly, in a somewhat embarraaaed position. 1 doubt very much if
there was any truth in it, nevertheless, will relate it, and leave you to laugh
at the idea of it.
1 was sitting in my room sewing, this afternoon, about two o'clock, when
what should 1 see but your own dear self; but, Heavens I in what a position.
Now, I don't want to excite your curiosity too much, or try your patience too
long, 80 will come to the point at once. You were falling up the front steps
in the yard. You had on your black skirt and velvet waist, your little straw
bonnet, and in your hand were some papers. When you fell, your hat went
in one direction and the papers in another. You got up very quickly, put on
your bonnet, picked up the papers, and lost no time getting into the house.
You did not appear to be hurt, but looked somewhat mortified. It was all 80
plain to me that 1 had ten notions to one to dress myself and come over and
see if it were true, but finally concluded that a sober, industrious woman like
yourself would not be stumbling around at that rate, and thought I'd best not
go on a wild goose chase. Now, what do you think of such a vision 88 that t
Is there any possible truth in itt 1 feel almost ready to scream with laughter
whenever 1 think of it ; you did look too funny, spreading yourself out in the
front yard. .. Great W88 the fall thereof."
1 can distinctly call to mind the 1wt1Ml in which you live, but for the life
of me 1 cannot tell whether there are any steps from the sidewalk into the
yard, 88 1 saw them, or not.
Now do tell me, dear, if 1 saw correctly or not, or if the thing was shown
me simply to give me something to laugh about1
Hope you got home last night without any adventures. And now" Good·
night."
Sincerely your friend,
This letter came to us in an envelope addressed: Mrs. E. A. Conner,
217, DeL Ave., N.E., Washington, D.O., and with the postmarks,
Washington, D.O., Jan. 15, 7 a.m., 1889, and Washington, N.E.O.S.,
Jan. 15, 8 a.m. Some further letters in the postmarks are illegible.
Mr. Myers wrote to Mrs. Conner (who has now moved to New York)
asking certain questions relating to the incident, to which she replied on
March 7th, 1889. The questions and her answers are printed below.
Quution 1.-{a) Did Mrs. B.'s letter give a true description of the accident(as
you have already said to Dr. Coues that it did) 1
(6) Was the dress (" black skirt, velvet waist, littlestraw bonnet") correctly
described 1and was this the dress in which Mrs. B. had last seen you 1
AfIItDe1' 1.-{a) 1 can only repeat-Yes, exactly.
(6) As correctly as if 1 had described it myself. 1 do not know whether it
was the dress in which Mrs. B. had last seen me or not, but it was one
she had often seen.
Quution. 2.-ln what way did you identify the time of the accident 1 It
looks as though Mrs. B.'s vision-'' soon after 2"-might have preceded
the accident, which Dr. Coues speaks of as occurring "between 2
and 3."
Digitized by Google
\
June, 1889.) JO'UrnaJ, of &oiety for Psychical Research. 91
A_ 2. - I was writing that day in the Congressional librarY. I
finished my work, and passed out through the Capitol Building. As I
did BO, I glanced at the large clock in the hall, and it lacked 20 minutes
to 3. It was not more than a minute till I reached the steps where I
fell, so that it must have been within a few seconds of19minutes to three.
I have no means of ascertaining whether the vision preceded the
accident.
Quuticm. 3.-Have you ever heard from Mrs. B. that she had any vision of
you of the kind, at any other time 1 and, if so, was it correct1
A_ 3.-Mrs. B. and myself are intimate friends. She had seen a vision
of me once or twice previously, merely as an appearance, not doing
anything in particular.
Q'lIuticm. 4--For form's sake I will ask you to state whether a slip on the
front steps like this is unique in your experience 1
A_ 4.-1 have stumbled and fallen a few times in my life, not oftener
than other people.
To me the most convincing proof of the correctness of the vision is a sentence
you will find like this, if I remember right, in the letter: "I do not
know if there are steps from the sidewalk to the yard," &c. The queer
fact is that there were two steps from the sidewalk to the yard, the
street having been cut down. On the top one of these two steps, in
the yard, I stumbled. Mrs. B. had never seen this house, I having
only removed thither a few days before.
(Signed) ELIZA A.RmwtD CONNER.
M.Cl. 670.
Professor Charles Richet sends the following case to Mr. Myers.
We ha.ve not printed all the medical details given.
Paris, 1e 8 Mars, 1889.
J'ai un tres beau cas de lucidiM, que je vais vous reconter avec d6tail.
Vous ne savez peuUtre pas que mon beau-pare, Mr. F.A., a 6M malade
assez gravement a. partir du mois d'aoilt, 1887. (C'est lui dont· j'ai eu
l'occasion de parler dans les Proceedings S. P. R., 1888, p. 126, Exp. XL.)
n a 6M de plus en plus malade jusqu'au mois de janvier, 1888. A ce
moment (janvier et f6vrier, 1888) j'interroge a plusieurs reprises Alice
[a person whom Mr. Richet hypnotised] sur la sanM de Mr. F. A. J'avoue
que je croyais Mr. F. A. absolument perdu, et un jour entre autres en
f6vrier, 1888, j'ai interrog6 Alice; elle m'a dit, "Ne vous inqui6tez pas."
Pour rna part je croyais que Mr. A. ne vivrait plus que huit jours.
De fait, contrairement a. ce que je pensais et ce que pensaient tous les
m6decins, il a a. peu pres gu6ri. [Certain symptoms, however, described
by Mr. Richet, remained, which necessitated the constant attention of a
surgical nurse.] Quoiqu'il soit &g6 (76 ans), qu'il s'amaigrisse beaucoup, et
que sea forces ne s'am6liorent pas, a. partir du mois de f6vrier, 1888 (vem Ie
9 f6vrier environ) il a 6M sans empirer. . . •
A divemes reprises (peuUtre trois ou qustre fois) j'ai dernand6 a. Alice
de me parler de lui. Elle m'a dit, " Ne vous inqui6tez pas; je vous en
parlerai."
Digitized by Google
92 JO'IJII"fU1l of SOciety for PsiJchical Resea!rch. [June, 1889.
n y a deux jours, Ie Jeudi, 7 mars, it. une heure de l'aprlls-midi, des que
j'ai endormi Alice, elle me dit (ce sont ses paroles textuellea que je copie
d'aprlls la sUnographie que j'ai prise): "J'avaiB hA.te de vous voir; je voulaia
VOUB voir hier pour VOUB parler de Mr. A. Ou il eat plUB aouffrant ou il va
avoir une crise; de la fievre, de l'alUration, de la fatigue. Quel mauvaia
moment I La mal s'aggrave; il est tres abattu. nne faut rien attendre
pour cette crise l8.." (Cela aignifie que la crise ne se terminera pas par Ia
mort.) "n ne pourra pas bouger ni f&ire un mouvement. La douleur eat
surtout dans lea reins, it. gauche, et tras forte. Ce ne sera pas la dermere
. crise. n la supportera encore. Elle aura lieu avant peu, dans deux ou trois
jours. Elle sera plus forte que toutes celles qu'il a eu depuiB un &n. La
moment approche. n souffrira. moins it. la fin. n mourra au moment ou
VOUB ne VOUB y attendrez pas; ce n'est pas dans une crise qu'il mourra. nne
pourra pas prendre d'aliments, on lui mouille lea levres. • • • n avait
peur de mourir; maintensnt c'est bien cha~, et il est plUB indiff6rent." *
Voil8. ce que m'adit Alice it. une heure Ie Jeudi. Ce mAme Jeudi soir, en
rentrant chez moi, je trouve ma femme fort inquiete, et elle me raconte que
dans la nuit du mercredi au jeudi, vers une heure du matin--{here Mr.
Richet relates in detail how for the first time for 13 montha the attendant
had been unable to 888iat Mr. A., who had been in great agony for three
hours, until at length a surgeon was sent for, with whose aid the su1ferings
of the patient were instantly relieved.] nest 6vident, et mAme abaolument
sftr, qu' Alice n'a pu 88VOir cela; moi-mAme je l'ignoraiB abaolument it. une
heure.
n y a donc l8. un fait de lucidiU tres remarquable, que je VOUB signale
d'une maniere tout-a-fait sp6ciale. Remarquez oombien cela coincide avec
(1) l'observation relative it. la maladie de mon beau-pere que je VOUB ai
raconUe; (2) I'Obaervation XIV., p. 164, que j'ai publi6e dans les Proceed/mg'
S. P. R., 1888.
.n faut noter comme easentiel que depuis un an et un mois jamais Mr. A.
n'a eu une crise aUBHi forte et avec autant d'angoiBBe que dans III. nuit de
mercredi it. jeudi. (Signed) CR. RICHET.
L.830.
We are indebted for the following narrative to Mr. Rawlins, who is
a master a.t Eton :-
April 2nd, 1888.
The circumstances of the "appearance" to which you allude were as
follow: I meant to run with the boys' beagles, but, owing to the interrup-
tion of a visitor, could not start till nearly an hour after the right time. I
expected to find them in the neighbourhood of Wraysbury, but failed in my
search. On my way home I was croBBing a ploughed field betweenWraysbury
and Datchet, completely lost in thought as I trudged over the heavy ground,
when I fancied myself to be standing in a crowd opposite the White Hart
Hotel in Windsor, waiting for the return of the Queen from the station to
*Ces dlltails sur les aliments, Ia. secheresse des lllvres, et l'indifference progressive ~
Ia. mort, sont absolument vrai.
Digitized by Google
June, 1889.] J01JI1"1W,l of Society for Psychical .&search. 93
the Castle; as the carriage passed me I thought I heard the report of a
pistol over my left shoulder, and turning round saw a man struggling with
the bystanders; I did not, however, see his face, and the vision(or whatever
it was) passed away. When I arrived at my house a servant came into my
study with "Have you heard the news 1" I was convinced that the Queen
had been shot at before he told me. The time of the appearance coincided,
as far as I could calculate, with the actual fact. There was nothing to bring
the Queen into my mind, nor did I know that she had gone to London; but
--00 here the value of the incident is destroyed-the attempt as I saw
it took place about 150 yards from the scene of the actual occurrence.
NevertheleBB, it was a strange coincidence.
(Signed) FRANK H. RAWLINS.
Some questions were put to Mr. Rawlins and kindly answered by
him on March 21st, 1889. The questions and his answers are as
follows:-
Question I.-Was the vision a merely mental one, or was it apparently
external1 and if the latter, did it blot out the actual surroundings or
mix itself with them 1
.A.nswer.-The vision was apparently external. I was in a brown study,
and was not conscious of the surroundings--a ploughed field-at the time
when I seemed to see the crowd, and the passing of the Queen and the
arrest of the culprit, whose face, however, I did not see distinctly.
Question 2.-What was the date of it 1
.A.nswer.-March 2nd, 1882, about 4.45 p.m., as far as I can remember.
Question 3.-Was any written note made of it at the time 1
.A.nswer.-No. Directly after I came into my house my servant told me
that the Queen had been shot at. I cannot remember how soon after
the event I told anyone.
As I believe you know, the facts of the attempt on the Queen's life did
not correspond to the appearance.
Mr. Rawlins further says :-
I have not had any experience resembling my ~ap. It is true that
I am able in the dark or with closed eyes to recall faces and to seem to
see them before me; but this is an effort of the will, whereas the appearance
in question was involuntary and causeleBB.
M.Ct 672.
The following account was dictated to me by the late Mr. Clement
W. Tancred, of 23, DukEHItreet, Manchester-square, and signed by him,
July 25th, 1888.-F.W.H.M.
In August, 1879, I was in New Zealand. In the Mackenzie County,
about 25 miles o~ was a station held by a Mr. Smith. MyoId shepherd was
suddenly called up to that station, hearing that his brother and the son of the
owner had been lost [in the snow] with their dogs. They had a large search
party-some 20or30 persons-butcould find no traces of the bodies. Theycon-
cluded that there had be~n a drifted wall of snow on the top of a ravine, which
Digitized by Google
940 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [June. 1889.
the dogs' barking had disturbed and which had buried the party. They sank
holes in vain for three weeks, and were going to give up on the nen Monday.
On the Sunday evening an absolute stranger, a Scotchman, strange to the
neighbourhood, and on his way to a distant station, came and stayed a night
at Mr. Smith's and heard the story. Nen morning this man came to my
shepherd and said: "You and several others must come with me, and I will
show you where the men are buried." He said that in a vision he had seen
the position of the bodies. Before the party started he described the position.
It was quite apart from the previous trial-pits. They sank a shaft where he
told them and came on a stick and the feet of the younger man. They dug
from that point, and found the whole party. My shepherd told me this on
his return to my station.
CLEMENT W. TANCRED.
CORRESPONDENCE.
ARE APPARITIONS OBJECTIVE, AND DO ANIMALS SEE THEM1
[The following letter, which we have somewhat abbreviated, reached us
too late for insertion in the May number of the Journal. We subjoin also
Dr. Klein's report of the remarks he made at the meeting in March, which
beam on the same subject, and which also reached us too late to be used in
its proper place.l
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCmCAL RESEARCH.
Sm,-I was present at a meeting of the Psychical Research Society on
March 18th, when the subject before the meeting was that of some appari-
tions occurring after deat.h. During the discussion which followed Mr.
Myers' paper I asked him whether he had formed any theory on what, for
want of scientific nomenclature of greater exactness, I called~he "Dynamics "
of these apparitions, the substance of the answer being that he had not
formed any precise theory. Conceding the reality of apparitions, the point
raised by me in my question is, I would submit, one the elucidation of
which would more than anything else enlighten us as to the objective or
subjective character of these phenomena.
One of the apparitions described at the meeting will serve as an
illustration of my meaning. An Indian officer (General Barter), in good
health, seated smoking by the side of a hill road, sees a European on horae-
back, accompanied by two syces, who rides down towards him. When the
group is within a few paces of the officer he perceives it to be an apparition,
and the whole vanish'*! on his springing forward to clutch it. The sound of
the pony's hoofs had been plainly heard, not only by the officer on that par-
ticular occasion, but also on many others by his wife and servant&, so much
so that these latter were accustomed to speak of the spot where the
occurrence happened as haunted-a galloping sound being continually
noticed. The Colonel's dogs, with him at the time, appear to have been
inliuenced, as they lied with marks of terror.
Assuming the credibility of the narrative, and that it was not a dream
" suggested" by hearsay and the ghostly tattle of the natives-two questions
June, 1889.] Jou'1"TU1l- of Society for Psychical Research. 95
spring prominently forward. Had the Colonel been provided with a detective
camera,would a photograph of the vision have resulted 1 Had a phonograph
been installed in the bungalow adjacent, would it have recorded the sound of
the gallop1 The mere suggestion of the above tests places before us the
scientific contradictions in the narrative which so perplex students of this
class of phenomena. To the officer all might be purely subjective, but then,
why were his dogs affected 1 On the other hand, how can we explain the
creation of actual sound waves, noticeable by many ears and at many times,
together with the absence, on soft ground, of any footmarka 1 Why should
the apparition have no power to affect matter in a downward direction, and
yet retain that power in a lateral one 1
ARTHUR PALLISER, JUlI'.
"The Rev. Dr. Baynard Klein aaked how far the attitude of the dogs, at
mentioned in the case [the above deacribed experience of General Barter's],
had been aacertained; he thought much importance should be attached to
that circumstance, if properly authenticated. It would tend to show that
the apparition was not merely subjective, and as such, affecting exclusively
the person who recorded it, but that it was something external to him,
something substantial, capable of being apprehended even by animals, whose
imagination, as regards ghosts, might reasonably be supposed to be free from
any such preoccupations. The hypothesis, on the other hand, that souls
might render themselves visible to animals as well as men, is too interesting
and important to be overlooked.
. "It nught perhaps be said that it was merely the sight of their master's
fright, depicted upon his countenance, that affected the dogs, and not any
sight of the apparition, but that would scarcely explain the details which we
have just heard.
"Altogether, he thought this circumstance of the dog's fright a moat
interesting feature of a most interesting case. and hoped it would be possible
to aacertain more positively the authority on which the related circumstance
ultimately rests. .
"Dr. Baynard Klein alao explained briefly the lIense in which he was
using the terms 'objective' and 'subjective.' An impreuion might be
called objective. not merely when proceeding from an object external to the
'person's body altogether, such. as seeing a tree on the other side of the
road; but,alae if p~edingftom some cause within the person's organism,
.•0:' but not from uhCanacious chinigea in the nerve centres, for instance: seeing
'. ~ a flash of light from some preuure affecting the tract of the optic nerve, or
• experiencing the sense of hunger caused by the state of the stomach after
prolonged fasting.
"On the other hand, dreaming, according to this classification, belongs to
the claBB of subjective phenomena."
[The following letter alao relates to this subject.]
SIR,-I should like to make a suggestion as regsrds the argument for the
objectivity of apparitions, based on their apparent effect on animals.
Digitized by Google
96 Jou'l"TWl, of &ciety for Psychical Research. [June, 1889.
I
Ia it not poaaible that the dogs in-for inatance-General Barter's narra-
tive were afraid, not because they 8&W aometh.ing, but because they 8&W
nothitlg'
It appears to me not improbable that.there was a real sound causedby the
shifting of loose gravel, or some other physical cause, which resembled that
of a horse's hoofs so stronglyas to suggest the approach of a horseman both
to the General and to his dogs (and on other occasions to Mrs. Barter and
others). In the case of the General, this state of expectation was, on the
hypothesis I am suggesting, the immediate cause of the remarkable halluci-
nation he experienced, in the 8&ms sense that looking into a crystal is often
apparently the immediate cause of a hallucination to the lady whose paper
was read at the meeting in May. But in the case of the dogs, the expecta-
tion may simply have led to bewilderment when the expected Bight of a pony
did not follow as usual the accustomed sound of approaching hoofs-bewilder-
ment which would be increased by what, if they 8&W nothing, must have
appeared the eccentric behaviour of ,their master.
I throw this out only as a suggestion to be kept in view in interpreting
the behaviour of animals on such occasions j and will merely add that the
establishment or overthrow of my hypothesis would not, in my opinion,
a1fect in one way or the other the question whether the hallucination seen
was veridical.-I am, &c.,
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK.
[We have received some interesting correspondence about Multiplex
Personality and the Probable Continuity of Mental Action, but as Mr.
Myers has expressed a wish to defer further discUllion of this subject till
after the Paris Congreu (of which a notice will be found below). we have
thought it best to withhold these letters till October.-ED.]
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF PHYSIOLOGICAL
PSYCHOLOGY.
We have received, by the courtesy of Professor Charles Richet, our
corresponding member, the official notification of a Congress of which
he is the Honorary Secretary, and which members of our Society may
like to attend. It is a "Congres International de Psychologie
Physiologique," and meets at Paris, in the Exhibition grounds
(Trocadero), on August 5-1Oth. A ticket of membership will cost IOfr.
We hope in the July Journal to publish a programme of the subjects
for discussion, which will include, we believe, several of the problems
with which our Society is concerned.
Digitized by Google
