{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v8_n12_dec_2012.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V8 N12 Dec 2012","mylang":"de"}
395
F
Amalgamation of Societies
——§——
396 – Did Conan Doyle Haunt his Old Cottage? – Leslie Price
405 – John Campbell Sloan (1869-1951) – Paul J. Gaunt
406 – A Scotch Materializing and Voice Medium – Mrs Hewat McKenzie
415 – Crewe Circle – Paul J. Gaunt
416 – The Open Court – Re Crewe Circle – The Two Worlds
418 – Leslie’s seasonal Quiz
419 – Some books we have reviewed
420 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
Psypioneer would like to extend its best wishes to all its
readers and contributors for the festive season and the
coming New Year
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PSYPIONEER
JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST
Volume 8, No 12: December 2012
396
DID CONAN DOYLE HAUNT HIS OLD
COTTAGE?
There have been many biographies of Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle (1859-1930). Some
years ago, reports appeared of strange
happenings at one of his former houses. In
1976, Charles Higham published The
Adventures of Conan Doyle.
In his Epilogue, he reported:—1
“The strangest footnote of all
concerns Bignell House, Bignell Wood, in
the New Forest. The present owner of
Bignell House, Dr. R. K. McAll, a
psychiatrist and former missionary in the
Orient, runs it as a private psychiatric
clinic, with no more than ten patients in
residence at any one time. When he set up
the clinic in the 1950’s, he and his family
and patients underwent a series of
extremely disquieting experiences, and
thought at one stage that they would have
to leave. It appeared that Conan Doyle
was haunting the house restlessly. McAll
hit on the idea of an exorcism, which was carried out late in 1961. He has experienced
no repetition of the trouble since that time.
Almost a week after the exorcism was successfully carried out, Dr. McAll’s attention
was drawn to an item in the London Daily Mail reporting a statement by Estelle Roberts
that she had achieved contact at a séance with Conan Doyle, and received the message
that he was greatly distressed at having disturbed people during his lifetime. McAll
interpreted this message to mean that Conan Doyle’s spiritual existence was anguished
because of his dabblings before death in matters that should not concern mortal man, and
1
Pages 343-344 “Epilogue: Séances, Mystery, and Murder”
397
he believes that it was only his exorcism of the house that released Conan Doyle’s spirit
from its sufferings.
It is difficult to give credence to this view, since Conan Doyle, if he did survive
death, would undoubtedly not have been tormented by memories of having brought so
many people so much comfort during his lifetime. But McAll is entirely sincere in his
belief.”
Higham lived in California, and it was Tony Rayns who in his behalf visited the houses of
Doyle, and interviewed Dr McAll. The latter soon gave his own story, in his book Healing the
Family Tree:—2
Some years ago, a family with three boys and two girls went to live in a beautiful
Tudor style house in the New Forest. It was built on very old foundations, and a
river, complete with two rustic bridges, ran through the garden. There was even a
haunted wing. ‘No-one can sleep there’, they were told. ‘It’s awful at night.’ This
was dismissed as so much nonsense by the parents who assumed that bats or owls
had been creating a disturbing noise. Indeed, this part of the house was chosen for
the children’s and visitors’ bedrooms.
The family settled in happily, quite discounting tales about the ‘hauntings’ that
they heard from other villagers, from passing gypsies, and even from the postman
who would only deliver letters to the box at the gate and refused to come up to the
house. Most of the relatives and friends who visited the new house found it a
delightful experience and felt a great sense of tranquillity.
However, unaccountable things sometimes happened. Once, a visitor was
awakened by a man pulling her arm urgently, another time a nurse heard a voice
repeating, ‘Please will someone wake up and help me?’ Thinking there was someone
in distress, she rose and set off down the corridor in the direction of the voice. She
was pulled up short when she realized that the voice now came from behind her – she
had walked through it! A few months later one of the sons, a stable ten-year-old,
cried out in the night as he was awakened by the sliding door of a large wall
cupboard in his room being rolled open slowly. One of the daughters was disturbed
several times at night by a lot of movement in the corridor outside her room and what
she described as ‘somebody suffering from flatulence’. Finally, she left out a jar of
indigestion tablets with a large notice: ‘Next time, try these!’
2
(1982), p63-66.
398
Sometimes the boys or one of their playmates would demand that ‘the old man
should be told to go away; he trod on the trains, he’s always shuffling about; he
doesn’t knock anything over and he’s very quiet, but he comes through closed doors
and windows and appears around corners’. They were matter-of-fact, quite unafraid –
it was all just a nuisance. Their father remained sceptical, but one evening, from the
boys’ bedroom above the room where he sat reading, came a great deal of noise – of
clockwork trains, drawers being opened, feet running across the floor and voices. He
rushed upstairs. The bedroom was silent and in darkness. The boys were soundly,
peacefully asleep, tucked in as usual. He was shaken. As he passed through the hall
on his way downstairs, he was further startled by a sudden loud clang on the
chandelier – but no one and nothing that he could see had touched it.
At Christmas time, Elspeth the eldest daughter paid her first visit to the new
house. She was a sensible, down-to-earth student who was highly amused by her
family’s strange tales. She said her prayers and went confidently to bed, happy to be
home. At breakfast next morning, she remarked casually, ‘I had a long talk with your
“friend” in the night. I thought it was you, Daddy, wandering about in the attic
looking for something, so I sat up intending to come and help you.’ Realizing what
she had said, she clapped a hand over her mouth and, with a half-laugh said
vehemently, ‘It’s quite true. He was going up and down in the attic above me but I
could see him as well. I don’t understand how. He was old and tall, with a moustache
and a kind face. He wore a grey suit that was too big and bedroom slippers. He told
me his name was Conan Doyle and he called me Elspeth. He said, “I’m sorry I woke
you up, I didn’t mean to. I am looking for my diary, it’s red leather with a black
elastic band round it. I hid it somewhere and my wife says it must be found for my
memoirs. Please help me. I am so happy that a family of children live here now
where my children lived. You lie down and go back to sleep. I promise I won’t come
again, but if you find my diary please leave it outside the door.” Then he was gone.’
Elspeth was unperturbed by the incident but her family were amazed. Her father
went to see the parish priest, a man who had lived in the neighbourhood for many
years, and discussed the events with him. The priest told him that Conan Doyle had
once lived in his house and was buried in the local churchyard. He said, ‘I have heard so
much about the hauntings at your house – now we know who it is. I think he is ashamed
of the diary that he kept for many years. You know, Conan Doyle was once a Christian
until he began to dabble in the occult in the name of spiritualism. He died aged seventy –
in 1930. I will come to your house and pray so that he may be at peace at last.’
Several members of the family gathered in their music room, part of which had been
Conan Doyle’s study. The priest prayed an extremely short prayer, unaccompanied by
399
any rites, and committed the troubled author to the Lord. From that day twenty-one
years ago, there have been no further manifestations and the house was at rest. Indeed,
villagers commented on the new peacefulness which pervaded the whole area, including
the country lanes on dark evenings. A newspaper report commented that, a whole week
after this prayer of committal, the lift at the doctor’s old surgery in Welbeck Street in
London had stopped outside his door, regardless of whatever floor button had been
pressed. The Daily Mail reported that ‘Madam Roberts, the famous medium who lives
in Kent, had at last received a message from Conan Doyle who wished to apologise for
having misled so many people during his lifetime.’ His diary has never been found.”
The story was also told by Martin Booth in his biography of Doyle, “The Doctor, the Detective
and Arthur Conan Doyle”:—3
In 1925, at Pheneas’s suggestion, the Conan Doyles purchase a house in the New
Forest. Jean had long expressed a wish to own a quaint, thatched cottage by a stream,
and her husband had been fond of the area since his doctoring days in Southsea. Bignell
House, on the edge of Bignell Wood at Wittensford near Minstead, built in the reign of
George I, fitted the bill exactly. The property was steeped in history and actually
consisted of a two-storey cottage beside a Saxon barn. Conan Doyle substantially rebuilt
the cottage, joining it on to the barn and installing an electric heating system driven by a
generator: an electric pump provided water from a well and nearby stream which ran
along the boundary of the garden, in which Jean laid out a miniature golf course and a
croquet lawn, adding a number of garden gnomes and statuary to the shrubbery. A
wicket gate led directly into the forest.
Both Conan Doyle and Jean used the house as a quiet retreat until August 1929, when
sparks from the kitchen fire set light to the thatch. The whole family was in residence at
the time and fled into the study to rescue what they could. Fortunately, all Conan
Doyle’s manuscripts were delivered from the flames; but the building was gutted. A few
days later, he published a letter in the Southern Daily Echo, thanking all those who had
assisted in helping to save what belongings they could from the house, including the one
or two who ‘showed a disposition to remove the goods even further’. Despite the
disaster, he kept his sense of humour and immediately issued a commission to have the
house rebuilt, but he was never to stay in it again.
On account of the Conan Doyles’ spiritualism, Bignell House was long regarded with
suspicion by the locals who, by and large, assiduously avoided it. In 1960, new owners –
both of them also University of Edinburgh-trained doctors, the father of one of them
having coincidentally been a contemporary and acquaintance of Conan Doyle when a
3
(1997), p342-3
400
student – discovered the house to be haunted. Noises were heard in the attic and the
figure of a tall, old man with a moustache was seen in the house: it was clearly
recognisable as Conan Doyle. The ghost said it was searching for a diary bound in red
leather and held by a black elastic band. In the summer of 1961, an exorcism service was
held and the haunting ceased. Shortly afterwards, it was discovered from a Doyle
relative that Conan Doyle had indeed kept a secret diary bound in red leather which had
gone missing.”
In his acknowledgments Booth included Dr McAll, and cited Healing the Family Tree in his
bibliography. More recently, Dr Roger Straughan contributed an article to a research group, the
Conan Doyle Establishment. We are grateful for permission from him to reprint this below:
STRANGE DOINGS IN BIGNELL WOOD
Roger Straughan
Last year I was driving through the New Forest on my way back home from a
conference at Bournemouth. The conference had been organised by the Churches’
Fellowship for Psychical and Spiritual Studies, which I belong to, and I had given a
paper at it in which I quoted at one point from Conan Doyle. There had been a bookstall
at the conference and I had noticed several books on it by Kenneth McAll. I knew quite
a lot about Kenneth McAll and had already read his best-known book, Healing the
Family Tree. He was a doctor and psychiatrist, who had worked as a missionary in
China, and had developed a method of treating disturbed patients by a form of Christian
exorcism. But what made him doubly interesting to me was that he had lived and
practised for many years at Bignell Wood, Conan Doyle’s New Forest retreat. He had
not welcomed Doylean visitors, I had heard, and was no longer alive. As an evangelical
Christian, he had been critical of spiritualism, but in his book he gives an account of an
apparent apparition of Conan Doyle, looking for a diary, though for some reason McAll
didn’t admit in the book that the incident had involved his own daughter and had
occurred at Bignell Wood, as described by Martin Booth in The Doctor, the Detective
and Arthur Conan Doyle, p.343.
All this was in my mind as I drove through the New Forest, and I decided to break
my journey by stopping near Bignell Wood. I had done this on previous occasions when
I had been in the area, and so could sympathise with Phillip Bergem, who described in
last year’s Research File how one has to risk one’s life to negotiate the narrow but busy
road which passes the front entrance. Like Phillip, I had also previously trespassed on
the driveway to try to get a view of the house. Phillip’s article had given me another
idea, however, as he mentioned a footpath into the wood which led to the back of the
house. Nothing seemed clearly marked, but I made my way with some difficulty around
401
what was the outside perimeter of the grounds, and suddenly came out into a clearing
with the house immediately in front of me.
One could see directly into the garden, where a family barbecue lunch party was
going on, only a few yards away from me, with children and dogs playing on the lawn.
Feeling rather embarrassed, I tried to drink in the details of this idyllic setting without
appearing too intrusive, but that was not easy as I was somewhat spellbound by the
scene and the unexpected closeness of the house. As I was moving away, a lady
detached herself from the barbecue party, came over to the gate and asked if she could
help me. I apologised for my apparent noseyness and explained that I was a Conan
Doyle addict. She immediately invited me into the garden and started showing me
around, pointing out an arbour and a seat where Conan Doyle was supposed to have
worked. To establish my credentials a little more, I mentioned that I knew of Kenneth
McAll and his work. ‘Oh yes – my father!’ was the reply. Suddenly the penny dropped
and I stared incredulously at my companion. ‘It was you!’ I blurted out. She looked
understandably puzzled, no doubt thinking that she had invited an idiot into her garden.
I quickly explained about the ghost story. ‘Ah yes, that was me!’ she said. The
afternoon was becoming more and more unreal. Here was I standing in Conan Doyle’s
former garden, talking to the lady who was supposed to have conversed with his
apparition here.
I asked her if she would mind repeating her experience to me, as my obsessions
included not only Conan Doyle but also psychical research. She said that she was quite
happy to do so. I wished I had a tape recorder handy, but as soon as I left Bignell Wood
I wrote down her words as accurately as I could, so the following is close to being a
verbatim account:
‘I was nineteen,’ she said. ‘I was asleep in my bedroom up there.’ (She pointed to a
first-floor window, overlooking the garden.) ‘I was awakened by the sound of footsteps.
I said, “If it’s you, Mr Conan Doyle, please tell me what you want so that we can help
you.” I had a mental impression of an old man with a moustache. He said how happy
he was that the house was now occupied by a happy family, as his own family had
always been happy there. He was looking for a red leather notebook with an elastic
band round it, as his wife wanted him to complete his memoirs. If it was found, could it
be left outside the front door and it would be collected. My father (Kenneth McAll)
hunted high and low, but found nothing.’
402
After relating this experience, the lady, whose name was ….4
took me into the house
and showed me round the homely rooms on the ground floor – it was obviously still a
much-loved family house, but she told me that it was about to be put on the market as it
was no longer suitable for her elderly mother. Finally she presented me with a
beautifully produced and illustrated book, The Moon Looks Down, by Frances and
Kenneth McAll, which told the story of her parents’ and her own imprisonment in
Japanese internment camps during the War. Quite overwhelmed by this generous
hospitality and not wanting to intrude any further on the family gathering, I reluctantly
took my leave of Bignell Wood, and made my way back through the Forest to my car,
still in a state of bemusement.
Later I reflected upon what (she) had told me and compared it with Martin Booth’s
account, which he seems to have presented too crudely and without the convincing
details I had heard. Booth claimed that ‘the figure of a tall, old man with a moustache
was seen in the house’ (p.343), but (she) had told me that she had a ‘mental impression’
– a significant difference. The words she used suggested to me that she was, or had
been, psychically sensitive, and so able to ‘pick up’ such impressions of personalities
and their words, which would not have been evident to others. This process always
requires a certain amount of subjective interpretation, but that does not mean that the
experience is purely imaginary.
The incident raises all kinds of fascinating psychical questions, but these are probably
not as fascinating to most Establishment members as they are to me! I will not indulge
in lengthy speculation here, but will simply list a few of these questions which may be of
interest to Doyleans. The sceptic will of course ‘explain’ the whole business as the
imaginary creation of a teenage girl, well aware that she was living in the former house
of spiritualism’s most famous convert, though this does not accord with the sober,
undramatic account I had been given by the lady I had met. If one is prepared to accept
that such experiences do occur (and there are huge amounts of evidence that suggest that
they do), an open-minded Doylean might wonder:
1).—Was this evidence of the surviving personality of Conan Doyle, or
simply a sort of psychic ‘re-run’ of his former occupancy of the house, as seems
to be the case with many so-called ‘hauntings’? Conan Doyle had himself
written of the possibility of a record of a past event being recorded by the
shedding of a ‘thought form’.5
4
We are deleting the name in Psypioneer to protect privacy, but we note that it differs from the Christian name
given in Dr McAll’s book.
5
The Edge of the Unknown, 1930, p.51
403
2).—Was it likely that Conan Doyle would get psychically ‘stuck’ in this
way, unable to move on spiritually, given his deep understanding of such
matters and other alleged communications from him (see my article in last
year’s Research File, ‘Windlesham and the “Return” of Arthur Conan Doyle’),
which suggest that he had in fact made much spiritual progress after his death?
3).—What are we to make of the lost red notebook, which was apparently
verified by a member of the Doyle family? Do any Establishment members
know any more about this? Was Conan Doyle in fact working on further
memoirs at the time of his death, and would his wife have been encouraging
him to do so?
4).—What about the following theory? The ‘apparition’ was perhaps of the
‘psychic tape-recording’ kind, repeating Conan Doyle’s concerns after the fire
at Bignell Wood in 1929, when some of his papers may well have gone
missing, and these impressions were picked up by (the daughter). The only
problem with this is that it doesn’t really account for the reported ‘words’ of
Conan Doyle about the happy family home, which seem entirely characteristic
of him. It may also be significant that there was nothing sinister or threatening
about the personality of the ‘apparition’ described, who seems to have been
benevolent and courteous.
There can no clear-cut answers here, and it would be good to hear
comments (sceptical or otherwise!) from readers of the File. For my part, I
shall not forget my experiences at Bignell Wood, and understand what Conan
Doyle meant when he wrote, ‘If anyone craves for adventure, he will find it in
psychic work.’
——§——
Some papers of the medium mentioned, Estelle Roberts, were donated to the Britten Museum,
and they include an undated handwritten letter sent to her by Dr McAll, seeking information
about the diary. Adrian had apparently rejected the idea of ACD seeking such a diary, but Mary
the eldest daughter had allegedly accepted it. It is not known if Mrs Roberts replied.
Let us now take stock as here we have a case which can offend at least three parties.
The sceptic can say that the previous ownership of the house would have been known to the
McAll family, who would have interpreted strange events, including a dream, in the light of the
ACD connection.
404
Spiritualists can be offended too. Conan Doyle was not earthbound, they would assert. Indeed
Estelle heard from him at his memorial service. The medium Grace Cooke, who had not known
him, received an important series of messages from him, which was seminal for the White Eagle
Lodge. Conan Doyle would have been the last person to have become earthbound. He still
appears as a communicator.
Protestant Christians would not accept the post-mortem presence of ACD at the cottage either.
They might well agree that evil spirits can cause disturbances at houses formerly used for
psychic activities. Michael Harper, for example, reported (in his book Spiritual Warfare) such a
case afflicting a minister’s family; a former incumbent had been a well-known Spiritualist.6
As
for Dr McAll, they might suggest that in his years as a missionary in China, he became
influenced by pagan concepts.
As is well-known, at the Reformation, the Protestant churches rejected prayers for the dead and
the developed medieval view of purgatory. So far as Britain was concerned, the general
acceptance of prayers for the dead was hastened by the slaughter of the First World War. In
recent decades, the spread of the ministry of deliverance has changed many who (like Dr McAll)
had a Protestant background. It will be appreciated that exorcism forms only a small part of this.
In the case of Dr McAll, prayer and the service of Holy Communion were normally used to help
in cases of psychic disturbance.
Dr Straughan set out the possibilities well in his analysis above. Readers can form their own
conclusions about the Bignell ghost!
LESLIE PRICE
Mr Stainton Moses
We are sorry that for reasons of space it has not been possible to resume our series of chapters
from Mr Trethewy’s book this month. However, we are pleased to announce that the recent SPR
lecture “The Secret Life of Stainton Moses” is to appear in LIGHT in two parts next year.
LP.
6
Through the kindness of Canon Harper, I was able to correspond with this minister. LP.
405
JOHN CAMPBELL SLOAN
1869-1951
The name John Sloan became synonymous
with James Arthur Findlay,7
whom he met
on September 20th, 1918, maintaining
their relationship up until the time of
Sloan’s death in May 1951, at the age 82.
Sloan’s mediumship was important to
Findlay both on a personal level, and as the
medium he strongly featured in some of his
books, starting in September 1931 in On the
Edge of the Etheric. His last book during
Sloan’s lifetime, Where Two Worlds Meet,
gives a verbatim record of a series of
nineteen séances given by Sloan between
April 11th 1942 – July 10th 1945 , and was
published in the year of the medium’s death.
Findlay would later write The Way of Life,
1953, and Looking Back, his Autobiography
in 1955.
Sloan’s death is given as May 1951 and it is
interesting to note Findlay’s dedication of,
Where Two Worlds Meet to Sloan – he dates
the book’s foreword as July 1951, but
appears to give no mention of Sloan’s death.
In the Journal of the Society for Psychical
Research’s (JSPR), book review by W. H. Salter,8
it is stated Sloan died in May, while the book
was being printed.
John Sloan to my knowledge was never accused of deception, or involved in any form of
scandal during his fifty years of mediumship. Findlay’s first séance with Sloan was at the
Glasgow Society for Psychical Research, Findlay himself being one of the founders and at
this time Vice-President. Later, Findlay suggested the Society for Psychical Research (SPR)
should test Sloan and offered to pay the expenses, but on unacceptable terms. In Psypioneer
2005, Leslie Price covered this more fully and corrected a reference by Professor David
Fontana written without reference to Mr Salter’s review.9
7
Photograph of James Arthur Findlay (1883-1964) age 55.
8
JSPR:—Journal of the Society for Psychical Research, Reviews November, 1952, page 730.
9
See Psypioneer Volume 1, No.9:—SPR declined to investigate voice medium, pages 94-95:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP9.pdf
See also Psypioneer Volume 1, No.19:—Notes by the way – SPR Council attacked again – Leslie Price, pages 250-
251:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/19.PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
406
Below is a short quote from the report of the SPR Annual General Meeting regarding this
proposal by Findlay, published in April 1931, page 55:
“Mr Findlay said that in his opinion the Society threw away useful opportunities
for investigation. About eight years ago, having had sittings in Glasgow with Sloane,
whom he regarded as a medium above all suspicion, he had offered to the Society to
bring Sloane to London at his own expense for investigation, provided that the
Society would engage Sloane as caretaker.10
The Society had however—he thought
unreasonably—refused on the ground that it was undesirable to allow a medium free
run of the premises at all hours of day or night. …”
Below is a rare report on John Sloan’s mediumship in London at the British College of Psychic
Science (BCPS), taken from their Quarterly Transactions and published in their journal Psychic
Science in 1924:—11
A SCOTCH MATERIALIZING AND VOICE MEDIUM
By Mrs Hewat McKenzie
THE name of John Sloan has long been familiar in the city of Glasgow as a physical medium
of a very high order. Associated with his wife,12
he provided in his own home for many years
remarkable manifestations of psychic power which comforted and edified both Spiritualists
and those who came from scientific or curious motives.
His work had always a peculiar personal quality which gave it a unique charm, and it was
also remarkably varied. To provide solace to the mourner by evidence of survival, to ease
physical pain, and to interest the sceptic by psycho-physical manifestations so that further
investigation might follow, lay equally within his great gift.
Mr. McKenzie and myself became acquainted with Mr. Sloan before the war years,
through an introduction from Mr. Peter Galloway, a stalwart of Glasgow Spiritualism.13
He
told us remarkable stories of personal experiences with Sloan, consisting of the production,
even in good light, of “apports,” mainly small carved ivory figures; one particularly large
“apport,” prized by Mr. Galloway being a model “catamaran,” or native boat. This rather
unique phase had passed before we made the acquaintance of the medium, but Sloan often
10
JSPR mis-spells Sloan.
11
Psychic Science Vol. III.—No.1. April, 1924 pages 31-40.
12
John Sloan’s wife’s name, given on some websites, was Agnes.
13
Peter Galloway played a significant part in the history of the Glasgow Association of Spiritualists. Galloway was
its president from 1916 until his death on February 6th 1923. See Psypioneer Volume 7, No.10:—The Glasgow
Association of Spiritualists – Paul J. Gaunt & Historical Notes (Glasgow Association of Spiritualists) – The Two
Worlds, pages 317-324:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.10October2011.pdf
407
spoke of it in later years, and regretted the fact that when some of his circle, in order to
secure voice phenomena, had encouraged the dark séance, the “apport” manifestation,
possible with a fair degree of light, had ceased. The fact has been frequently noticed in
physical mediumship, that new conditions or the demand for a new phase of manifestation,
seems to shut out or attenuate certain intelligent forces, and tends to draw others capable of
ministering to the new desire. This is a fact worthy of serious attention by all investigators of
limited experience, as much harm may be done in the frustration of normal modes of
development proper to each medium.
During the war we saw Sloan again and found him rather depressed and tired with the
over-large circles, mostly composed of bereaved persons, who, hearing of a means of
consolation, flocked through Mr. Galloway’s introduction to the séances. Later he gave up
such circles altogether and sat with a group of friends who introduced strangers only
occasionally. What part Mrs. Sloan played in the manifestations except as a supporting
medium is not clear, but she had certainly psychic power of her own, although the only
frequent manifestation of this in the circle was through the control of the “Flower Girl,
Nell,” who invariably brought a spray of scent, and plentifully besprinkled the sitters.
At all times Mr. and Mrs. Sloan were averse from receiving money or gifts for their
mediumship,14
hardly even allowing the members of the circle to pay for the wear and tear
of the home and furnishings occasioned by the constant visitors.
EARLY SIGNS OF MEDIUMSHIP
Sloan has told me that while a boy in his father’s home in Ayrshire, psychic experiences
were quite common, and that they occurred in the most spontaneous way, no one being in
the least afraid of them. When he and his brother retired to bed in an old four-poster, and
drew the curtains, knocks and movements of the clothes and curtains at once occurred, and
the boys would ask questions and receive answers from the “bogeys,” as they named the
intelligences, for the benefit of the family. No one to his knowledge thought of associating
them with the spirits of the departed. When later he came to Glasgow to work, and having
passed through some earnest years of association with the Salvation Army to a chance
acquaintance with Spiritualism, he realized that he had caught up again with his
childhood’s experiences under another name and with an enrichment of which he had little
dreamed, and from thenceforth he became an ardent attendant on the philosophy of the
subject and began the development of his own powers.
Private individuals may have records of the many remarkable séances that took place in
the Glasgow home, but little has been put into print regarding Sloan’s work.
14
James (Hewat) McKenzie founder of the “British College of Psychic Science” (BCPS) considered:—“He
[McKenzie] told me [Horace Leaf] that he regarded John C. Sloan, the Glasgow physical medium, as about the best
of them. Sloan’s drawback seems to have been his objection to receiving monetary rewards for his mediumistic
work. This made him “a bit of a nuisance”, because, I suppose, one could not give him instructions. ”Psypioneer
Volume 6, No.3:— Horace Leaf, pages 66-67:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.3March2010.pdf
408
Having a great regard for his honesty of purpose, and for the quality of his gift, we had
long desired to secure his services at the College either temporarily or permanently, but the
daily work of a storekeeper in which he was engaged seemed to leave no time or energy for
a journey from home.
In 1922, however, through business and family adjustments he expressed a desire to
come south, if suitable occupation could be found.15
His Glasgow friends naturally wished
to keep him there, but his home conditions made a change desirable, and a position being
found for him, he came to London in the spring of 1923. This arrangement, however,
greatly to the regret of his friends, did not prove a happy one either for himself or for those
who brought him to London, and after a stay of two months he returned to Glasgow, not,
however, to settle down again so far as can be gathered. During his short stay in London
many College members and others were privileged to share in his séances, and one and all
heartily appreciated their pleasant and interesting general character and the remarkable
manifestations which, under good conditions, were uniformly obtained, in spite of the
medium’s mental distress during this period. Mr. Malcolm Bird,16
the Associate Editor of
“The Scientific American,” since famous for its series of articles on psychic investigation,
visited England about this time, and his very first séance was held at the College with Mr.
Sloan. Later he made this the subject of his first report on psychic matters, a most favourable
one, in his journal of May, 1923, and subsequently embodied it in his book; “My Psychic
Adventures.”
I will quote at this juncture from Mr. Bird’s report, who was at the moment only a keen
onlooker, prepared to be interested or otherwise. “The medium turned out to be a short,
stoop-shouldered Scot, quite taciturn, with a fairly noticeable burr in his speech. He would
grade fairly low in education and general intelligence. . . . and my best judgment would be
that both in diction and subject matter much of the communicated material of the séances
would be quite beyond the normal ability of the medium.”
This may pass for a superficial journalistic estimate, but better acquaintance with Sloan
showed that the taciturnity passed under warming influences. “Dour” in the Scotch sense he
undoubtedly was, but he had mixed extensively with some of the ablest business men in
Glasgow, and had heard the subject discussed intelligently from every point of view. He had
his own considered views upon it, and, by the way, was an excellent penman and a good
grammarian, abilities usually associated with some degree of education.
Mr. Bird’s report continues to speak with respect of the conditions of the Sloan séance
conditions which it may be said characterize every general séance held at the College. After a
word of appreciation or the kind of people he met, he says: “There was no emotion whatever
at this séance from beginning to end. There was no mystery or other hocus-pocus about it.
There was music, presumably to get the medium into trance, and later, darkness to keep him
in that condition. Apart from that it was just an ordinary meeting and conversation between
15
About this time Findlay tried to find employment for him at the SPR as a caretaker, as previously quoted.
16
Brief overview of Malcolm Bird:—http://www.survivalafterdeath.info/researchers/bird.htm
409
friends. The most amazing feature of the whole performance was the informality of it. One is
accustomed to think of a séance as an event where people sit in the dark with bated breath
waiting for something to happen: where silence reigns, broken by singing and sobbing till the
voice comes. At this sitting there was nothing resembling silence. Everybody chatted away
gaily with his neighbours with the “control” and with the “communicators.” If we may for a
moment adopt the view-point of the other sitters, the sitting was simply an informal
gathering of a number of friends, some of whom happened to be dead. The voices of the
‘communicators’ participated on a footing of absolute equality with the flesh and blood
guests.”
So we taught an American Editor how very natural such communication may be, and this
he confirmed on other occasions at the College, with Sloan, Evan Powell and the Crewe
Circle.17
Since then Mr. Bird has conducted many investigations in Europe and in America,
but probably at none has he experienced so much genuine interest and happiness as in his
first experience with John Sloan. Whether if Sloan should enter for the “Scientific American”
prize, offered for the demonstration of physical mediumship, and found himself in the
presence of Houdini, Prince, Carrington and the others, he could be used to produce the
wonders given in the happy séance room at the College I cannot say. Perhaps he too would
be bowled out, and the fair delicate flower of his mediumship withered in the cutting mental
atmosphere consciously and unconsciously provided by some persons.
Warmth, homeliness and ease of mind are as necessary to a sensitive as love to a child,
before he can release the soul forces or etheric body on which mediumship depends. The
psychology of the medium is always the key to genuine phenomena.
At this séance Mr. Bird controlled the medium’s hand on one side, to his full satisfaction,
while another well-known sitter controlled the other. This was Sloan’s invariable rule, at any
time his hands could be held while the manifestations went on, and no discomfort or
hindrance seemed to result. Some personal messages convinced Mr. Bird (who was unknown
in the circle) of telepathic power on the part of the medium. Voices were heard from the
trumpet while both hands of the medium were held by one of the circle. Lights of various
kinds appeared quite apart from the medium; the trumpet travelled about the heads of the
sitters, caressingly and with unfailing accuracy, this precision being a feature of the best
physical mediumship.
LUMINOUS PHENOMENA
The luminous phenomena at Sloan’s sittings impressed all sitters and are worthy of some
special notice. Sloan’s chief “control” is an Indian—“White Feather” or “Whitey,” who
belongs, so he tells us, to the “Crow” tribe. He always spoke through the medium’s mouth,
never through the trumpet, in this respect resembling Evan Powell’s18
“Black Hawk,” and
17
Crewe Circle: See following details at the end of this article.
18
For Evan John Powell (1881-1958) see Psypioneer: Volume 7, No.7:—Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Evan Powell
– Paul J. Gaunt & Evan Powell’s Mediumship – Leslie Curnow, pages 219-227:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.7July2011.pdf
Volume 7, No.8:—Evan Powell the Welsh Physical Medium – Psychic Science, pages 235-242:—
410
Ada Besinnet’s19
“Black Cloud.” “Whitey” spoke in a shrill voice, managed the circles with
sense and dignity, and unless very difficult conditions prevailed, he kept the other “controls”
and the “communicators” in good order. He was often most scathing in his remarks to those
who could not manage the trumpet, advising them to “Go away and learn better.” His
particular work was the care of his “Old Box,” as he jocularly called his medium, and many
were the complaints as to the waywardness and perversity and stubbornness of the said
“Box” on personal and séance matters regarding which “Whitey” held a different opinion.
Sloan usually played himself into a semi-trance condition at the organ, and then took his
place in the circle while soft singing continued. In a short time a light, bluish and clear,
would be seen approaching the medium from his left, usually seen about two to three feet
above and away from him. A grunt would follow and “Whitey” had arrived. Mr. Bird
describes “Whitey’s” light as “six to eight inches across, flat and semicircular; it rose
diagonally from the medium’s head and floated off and up. For a second or two it retained its
original brilliance and then faded fairly fast.” Often I have noticed the light approaching
and said to myself “‘Whitey’ is here,” while the medium still talked in his normal manner.
A second later he was under control, and the light, seen by many in the circle at the same
moment disappeared in his neighbourhood, while his hands were held. At the close of the
séance, “Whitey’s” light left the medium in the same way, and he was himself again. Sloan
is the only medium with whom I have noticed this phenomenon so distinctly. With Kluski,
lights were seen about the medium almost at once, and with Miss Basinet, lights were in
evidence often before she became entranced, but with Sloan it seemed that these lights
were more distinctly accompanied by an invisible materialization of some sort, as Dr.
Gustave Geley has claimed in some of his valuable reports on physical mediumship.
Phosphorescent appearances were frequent during the séance. Sometimes the medium
would rise from his chair and go to one and another in the circle and, taking both their
hands in both of his, would proceed to give them a clairvoyant description or speak to them
of their health. If the latter, he would magnetize them with his hands which, in the process,
seemed to emit light of a phosphorescent nature visible to all. At other times a light would
move around him while both hands were held. It never looked like a flame or filament. On
other occasions the light seemed to move across and around the circle, and even get outside
it, while the medium was held.
On one occasion while my daughter held both his hands, she and Miss A—, beside her,
saw a luminous ring above the medium, rays of light streaming from it. This approached
Miss A—at her request, and she felt what appeared to be several folds of softest material
falling over her face; my daughter also, a moment later, felt the fabric fall gently on the top
of her head; and on many other occasions this light, from which some soft material seemed
to be suspended, was seen. It seemed to be carried around the circle by invisible hands,
often brushing the faces of the sitters. On one occasion I felt this with my hand in a
leisurely manner for no chain was formed by the sitters in these circles. It did not draw
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.8August2011.pdf
Volume 7, No.10:—Evan John Powell and Sherlock Holmes – Paul J. Gaunt& Last of a Great Line (Evan Powell) –
Psychic News, pages 327-335:— http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.10October2011.pdf
19
For Ada Maud Besinnet Roche (1890-1936) see Psypioneer: Volume 6, No.3:—The Implications of Ada – Leslie
Price and Paul J. Gaunt, pages 61-81:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.3March2010.pdf
411
away, and it seemed to be composed of some fine but not too soft material, rather of the
texture of fine linen than of muslin. Sometimes a sitter would be asked to look carefully
into the luminous drapery, and a face would be seen within it. On several occasions a face
was plainly discerned, but never clearly enough for recognition. The lights manifested were
thus of three kinds; the bright definite light of “Whitey,” the luminosity in the drapery, and
the luminosity from the hands. A number of perfectly definite records affirm the presence
of all three, whilst the medium was carefully controlled, thus showing the independence of
these lights.
TOUCHES AND PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
I find frequent references in the records to “touches,” and have also experienced these.
The trumpet, placed in the middle of the circle, seemed to be often used to produce these,
which were unfailing in their accuracy, and were often reported on the backs of the chairs
of the sitters while the medium was held by some sitter on the other side of the circle.
Occasionally the trumpet would rise in the air if the conditions were good, and a noise
would be heard exactly like that of a flying machine. The familiar misfire of the engine,
and its subsequent stop when it fell to the ground was most realistic. It seemed to move
on a central pivot with perfect direction—this whilst the medium was held. It was as if
the trumpet was being carried around the circle at a tremendous rate. On another occasion
it was laid gently on the shoulder of a good observer at right angles to her body. She
gently drew her hand along it to the wide end and found nothing there in the shape of a
support, although it was quite impossible that it could rest in that position, without falling
unless some means of support were provided. A second later it was removed from her
shoulder. The medium was some distance from her.
Sloan was entirely alone at these séances. The circles were composed of members of
the College, or their friends, and were in charge of Mr. Hewat McKenzie or myself, or of
some responsible member of the Council who furnished reports.
VOICES, ETC
At the first séance with Sloan at the College a voice came near me, giving the name of
“George” (pseudonym). I responded that I knew several of that name; and it answered
“George Rose. I am sorry I did not look into this subject as you advised me before I
passed on.”
I certainly had an uncle of this name, gone fifteen years at least and known to no one
in the circle but my husband and myself, and quite unknown to the medium. A few
months before his passing, Mr. McKenzie told him something of his experiences, and
advised him to look into it, but he had many business cares, and we saw him no more, so
that the message and the name were harmonious with the circumstances. Why should he
regret after all these years that he had not looked into the matter? Did he find that his
widow, who does not interest herself in the subject, was, for the lack of knowledge of the
realities of communication, cut off in a measure from his support and direct
ministrations?
412
The voice seemed to be in the trumpet, and fairly on a level with my face, but I could
not say that I recognized the tones, although it was a perfectly clear and natural voice. On
other occasions the speaking would apparently be close to the floor. The trumpet would
seemingly with difficulty be raised but an inch or two, and dropped again. One regular
visitor, called “Jock Thampson,” could apparently use the trumpet when no one else
could, and was the humorist of the party, giving us tongue-twisting phrases, and assuring
us continually that “We’re a’ Jock Thampson’s bairns.” “Whitey” appeared to have a
grudge against this helper, and was, figuratively speaking, continually “shooing” him off.
Some “communicators” could apparently use the medium’s own mouth better than the
trumpet, and some curious effects were produced, when the medium holding a sitter’s hands
in both his own—would give clairvoyance—and behind him on the floor through the trumpet
would come the second half of the sentence—completing or adding to the information while
the medium stood motionless. The voices varied in quality from the deepest bass to the
gentle tones of women or children’s voices, but except in the case of a voice which one
evening claimed to be that of Mr. Galloway, who was very well known to the medium—and
which did certainly seem to bear a very strong resemblance to that of Mr. Galloway, whom I
had known very well—I could not say that the voices were recognized.
APPORTS
I find in many of the séance records a note that the “Flower Girl,” believed to be Mrs.
Sloan’s “control,” spoke, and that her presence was the signal for a shower of scent. The
invariable method of this manifestation was as follows:
A given sitter was asked to hold the medium’s two hands close together, with her own,
and another sitter to spread a handkerchief upon them, and control his arms. Then it seemed,
as if from above, a small shower of scent of very ordinary variety descended upon the
handkerchief ; and all round the circle drops or spray would be felt, as if a spray had been
used.
No previous or subsequent examination of this medium was attempted, as he offered such
excellent conditions of personal control. Since the “apports” were spontaneous and
unexpected, we could only make a note of them for record.
On one occasion he was restless and asked to be allowed to go to the organ again, just
outside the circle. A vase of long-stemmed narcissi and bluebells stood upon it. After playing
a little, the “control” said he would bring some of the flowers into the circle. The medium
came back to the circle, and gave his hands to a sitter to hold, and some of the long-stemmed
flowers were pushed slowly through her hands, quite unbroken. The way in which they were
inserted was unique, and seemingly impossible with both hands held.
APPORT OF CIGARS
On several occasions cigars were produced in the circle. Both the medium’s hands and
feet were controlled by two sitters, and the “control” said that a cigar had been brought into
413
the small end of the trumpet. A sitter was told to put out his hand and take it—finding it there
as directed.
Two other cigars were received in the same way; one male sitter having one dropped into
his hands. But these happenings, though interesting to the sitters, cannot be claimed as
carrying any particular evidence; but in so far as they happened with a medium who was
known formerly to have this power, they should be noted, in view of any group having
further opportunities of sitting with Sloan.
No record of this medium’s work would be complete without mention of the
“Director”—who seemed to be the power behind “Whitey”—or rather, who took control
of the messages and evidence that came through. He was a gracious personality, and as
soon as his presence was announced a calmness and steadiness came upon the medium
and the circle, which was very noticeable.
His philosophy was deep and wise, and he often spoke in the séances, giving guidance
and direction, or gave answers to questions. Mr. Bird says of him: “The next voice was
that of the ‘Director,’ from the other side. He spoke in very cultured tones, far beyond the
medium’s normal powers. He offered a very well worded prayer and blessing.”
The “Director” always closed the séances, and those who had the privilege of being
present often at Sloan’s séances felt that the evening was not complete unless his
benediction had been given.
THE MEDIUM’S POWER OF DIAGNOSING DISEASE
“Whitey” claimed that the diagnosis of disease was undertaken by another “control”—
“a medicine man.” I have a record from our editor, Mr. Bligh Bond,20
of a séance at
which he was present, when the medium under control came to him, in the circle. “He
asked me to lean back and stretch out my left arm. He assisted in unbuttoning my coat,
and removed from my waistcoat pocket the fountain pen and pencil which I carry in the
left breast pocket. He tapped me repeatedly on left b r e a s t , exactly on the spot which
was hit by a cart shaft some time previously—a circumstance quite unknown to the
medium. With much energy and many grunts and queer sounds, he proceeded to rub this
spot, also certain places under my shoulder and down my side, and then massaged my
arm. In answer to my question as to what he found amiss, he said ‘Displacement.’ He
indicated that the area affected included my shoulder and back, and asked if I did not
have pain in a place he touched by the shoulder-blades. I acknowledged that I had. In the
course of rubbing up and down over my heart, several sitters noticed a light. I was also
able, by looking down, to see this, and I observed not once, but repeatedly, that the whole
of his hand was luminous, whilst the motion continued. I could at one time distinctly see
the shape of the back of the hand. It was not a spot, but the whole hand was faintly
luminous.”
20
Editor from the start of Psychic Science April 1922, who held the office until October, 1926; he was followed by
Stanley de Brath, who resigned for reasons of health in April, 1936, when the Editorship was assumed by Mrs.
Hewat McKenzie.
414
A date was given in connection with this accident, but this was not quite correct.
On one occasion the medium took the hands of an experienced sitter to give him a
treatment, stating that he was not in a good state of health. The sitter felt he was going to
faint if the grasp continued, and the “control” let go, saying his power was too strong for
the sitter, who immediately recovered when his hands were dropped.
Many other sitters had similar experiences, and sometimes diagnosis was even given for
relatives unknown to the medium, for whom the sitter seemed to serve as a link.
CLAIRVOYANCE
At every séance, many personal messages, and evidential matter regarding those who
had passed over were given, the medium often rising and standing in contact with the
person addressed. These were usually fully identified, but sometimes they would miss fire,
and the “control” would seem to be at a complete loss and would return to his chair to be
reinforced by “Whitey.” Sometimes the voice from the trumpet would proceed with the
evidence and establish it.
This production of evidence was really Sloan’s great and outstanding work, and it was
for this, far more than for the physical manifestations, that his mediumship was valued by
the bulk of the sitters. The human heart has always its need while those interested in the
scientific aspect are but few in comparison, and unsatisfying as sitters to the emotional
nature of the medium, which seems to flow out naturally to the soul in need of comfort.
Some curious episodes happened occasionally. An amateur psychic sat in the circle,
quite unknown to the medium, but “Whitey” immediately made friends with a “control”—
another Indian—who seemed to be the “guide” of this sitter. “Whitey” announced the name
of this “guide,” who had not got to the length of speaking English, and the conversation
seemed to be carried on with hisses and confused guttural sounds—to the amusement of the
other sitters. The sitter then received some good advice from “Whitey” as to his psychic
development, and was addressed by his two Christian names—quite unknown to any one at
the College, but always used by his deceased mother. Appropriate advice on his business
affairs was also given. In the whole series of twelve séances this incident was not repeated.
It will be seen from the above brief account that in the person of this humble Scotsman
of seemingly very average intelligence and ability in ordinary life, were concentrated a
group of psychic gifts which may be regarded as among the very finest of their class.
The lights, materialization of drapery, the independent touches, and independent voices,
the “apports,” were—if the sitters were satisfied with the conditions of control, and John
Sloan’s sitters were so satisfied—physical phenomena of a high order, and as if this was
not enough for one human being to carry, there were also the mental phenomena of trance
and trance speaking, of clairvoyance, clairaudience, the “X-ray” diagnosis or disease, and
the healing touch.
415
Surely this should be a happy man, we say. But the gifts imply a sensitiveness which
becomes at times a real pain to its possessor, sometimes distorting his five-sense life, and
making him morose, suspicious and taciturn. Under “control,” Sloan seemed to be a greater
and sweeter man than when out of it, and those who have profited from his gift, thank him
for the cheerful willingness with which he has borne his heavy burden for so many years,
and hope that some day he will be strong enough to resume it.
A sensitive registers upon himself every emotion of his sitter, and during the heavy war
years, Sloan’s sitters could be numbered by hundreds. He literally “bore their griefs,” but
had also the joy of the heartfelt thanks of those who, through his powers, knew that for
them “death had lost its sting, and the grave its victory.”
——§——
Re Footnote 17:
CREWE CIRCLE
It appears William (Billy) Hope’s21
spirit
photography started around 1905, with the help of
Mr Buxton the organist at the Spiritualist hall at
Crewe. A circle was formed for the purpose of
developing spirit photographs, and this group
would become known as the “Crewe Circle” with
William Hope as its leader although later he would
move to London. When Archdeacon Thomas
Colley joined the circle, their work became public.
It was the Venerable Archdeacon,22
who helped
develop the superlative gift of spirit photographer
William Hope. Colley reorganised what became
the famous Crewe circle, named after the Cheshire
town where the medium lived, (as did his helper
Mrs. Buxton). Colley gave Hope his first stand
camera.
We can note that some website searches show
Archdeacon Thomas Colley, as an “Archbishop,”
as does the following link which gives a selection of William Hope’s Psychic/Spirit photographs:
“unearthed in a Lancashire second-hand and antiquarian bookshop by one of the Museum’s
curators.”23
21
Photograph of William Hope taken from Psychic Science, Vol. III. April, 1924, to January, 1925. Page 242.
22
Gale Encyclopedia of Occultism & Parapsychology: Thomas Colley :—
http://www.answers.com/topic/thomas-colley
23
RiPA:—Research into Paranormal Anomalistics:—http://www.ripaonline.co.uk/famous-folk/william-hope-s-spirit-
pictures
416
The Society for Psychical Research Journal (JSPR) published Harry Price’s accusation of plate
substitution by William Hope in May 1922, Psypioneer February 2006.24
Prior to this there were
some early concerns involving Archdeacon Thomas Colley:
“The first controversy about Hope and his psychic photographs arose in 1908 in
connection with Colley’s first sitting. He recognized his mother in the psychic “extra.”
Hope thought it was more like a picture he had copied two years earlier. A Mrs. Spencer,
of Nantwich, recognized her grandmother in the image. Hope informed Colley of his
mistake. Colley said it was madness to think that a man did not know his own mother
and advertised in the Leamington paper asking all who remembered his mother to meet
him at the rectory. Eighteen persons selected the photograph from a group of several
others and testified in writing that the picture was a portrait of the late Mrs. Colley, who
had never been photographed.”25
This is explained more fully some years later in the Two Worlds, who then ran a column in their
weekly journal called The Open Court. Under this heading contributions were inserted for the
purpose of discussion. In the July 17th 1914, issue pages 356-357 we can note the following:
The Open Court
RE CREWE CIRCLE
SIR,—Recently a belated charge of alleged fraud has been brought forward, relating to some
photographs which were obtained by Archdeacon Colley in the year 1908 through the
mediumship of the Crewe Circle. This sensational but unwarrantable announcement has now
found an able seconder in your correspondent, Mr. E. Spencer, who sums up his qualification of
the position by naively acknowledging that he “does not understand photography in the least.”
Yet he presumes to criticise, and does not hesitate to impute fraud to entirely worthy and honest
people. Such is Mr. Spencer’s gratitude to the unpaid mediums who, giving of their time and
vitality, enabled his wife’s relative to manifest from the other side. It is well that many others
show their appreciation of similar favours received in a different fashion.
Having for over fifteen years carefully studied the subject of spirit photography, and carried
out many hundreds of experiments, both in this country and in America, I deliberately express
the opinion that the photographs in question were perfectly genuine productions.
The plates were supplied by Archdeacon Colley, marked by him, placed by him in his own
slide, in his own camera, and after exposure were at once developed the rev. gentleman, as he
afterwards stated in print.
24
Volume 2, No.2:—Is there hope for Hope? – Leslie Price, Afterthoughts on “Hope” debate – Barbara McKenzie
& Concerning Mrs. Deane – F.W. Warrick, pages 35-46:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/2.2%20PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
25
Gale Encyclopedia of Occultism & Parapsychology: William Hope:—
http://www.answers.com/topic/william-hope
417
The two spirit faces he immediately announced were those of his father and mother. That it
was his father there is little doubt, as he subsequently published a photograph taken shortly
before the old gentleman passed on, and the likeness is good. That he was mistaken in supposing
that the female face was that of his mother is certain, and shows the danger of attempting identify
any spirit visitor when there is no earthly portrait available for comparison. In this case it was the
more dangerous by reason of fifty years having elapsed since the lady had entered the spirit
world.
Some time later Mr. Hope, one of the mediums, discovered, and at once most
straightforwardly pointed out to Archdeacon Colley, that the portrait was not that of Mrs. Colley,
but of a Mrs. Spencer, whose portrait Mr. Hope had copied some time previously. It is greatly to
be regretted that the Archdeacon would not acknowledge his very pardonable error, but persisted
in declaring the portrait to be that of his mother. Probably the two ladies were much alike, and
the old-fashioned way of doing up the hair made the resemblance more complete. It does not
appear to have been noticed that apparently the same face (or is it Mrs. Colley? but in a slightly
different pose, and wearing a necklet) appeared on a plate with fifteen other spirit visitors,
including Mr. Everitt and the father of Mr. Colley. I do not know whether this was before or after
the one in question, in which Mrs. Spencer only too faithfully reproduced the appearance of her
last earth portrait, but with the addition of a psychic aureole around the head, so that it is quite
incorrect for a statement to have been publicly made that “it was absolutely identical in every
particular.”
There have been many instances where the spirit people, anxious to establish their identity,
have refreshed their memories by reference to a photograph or picture taken previous to their
transition, and then built up a replica of the same, thereby innocently bringing trouble and
unfounded suspicion upon the unfortunate medium. I have a number of examples in my
collection, but perhaps the most interesting are four which I took in my own home, using three
cameras simultaneously. They were of materialised spirits who manifested through a non-
professional medium, a friend of mine. Neither of the four were recognised at the time.
Subsequently the faces were identified by friends, and it was discovered that in each case a
former photograph had been used as a model, and by some means unknown to us the features
were carefully reproduced. Of course, the forms were enveloped in spirit drapery, and were alive
and animated. In one case a daughter wrote from Glasgow, “It is exactly like the last photograph
my mother had taken. Please let me have one; it will be very precious to me.” This experience
proved to the sitters who were present that mere reproductions of a portrait was no evidence
whatever of fraud; in fact, this was pointed out some twenty years ago by Mr. J. Traill Taylor,
the celebrated photographic expert. It is well to explain that other spirit friends who also
manifested, wiser and more considerate, made some slight changes in either their position or
dress, so that while the features were similar, the portraits were quite different to any before
taken.
The Cause of Spiritualism, perhaps more than any other, has had to suffer from unjust,
ignorant and malicious charges of fraud, and sadly too frequently these have been made inside
the camp by those whose experience of our wonderful phenomena should have made more
receptive, more careful, and more sympathetic.—Yours, etc., H. BLACKWELL.
418
XMAS QUIZ
——§——
We include below our usual quiz, for which the answers should appear in the January 2013 issue.
Each question relates to a month in sequence, thus the answer to first question is in the January
2012 issue, and so on.
1).– Who was Charles B. Rosemond?
2).– Who found the treatment of Modern Spiritualism by modern history writers to be
infuriating in ten ways?
3).– Where was the Spirit House?
4).– Who was Julia
5).– Is it true that Mrs Duncan was never tested with infra red?
6).– What was the identity of Mentor, a guide of Stainton Moses who specialised in
physical phenomena?
7).– Whom did Sir Arthur and Lady Conan Doyle represent when leading a delegation to
the Home office in 1930 about the law on mediumship?
8).– Which young medium spoke up at the Liverpool conference of 1873 in favour of a
national organisation – and lived to see it?
9).– Who might have had “ a fatal weakness, it was his unshakable belief in his own
infallibility. Again and again, he staked his entire reputation on the vaguest hunches, dreams
and assumptions, which often caused harm, even ruin, to innocent bystanders.”
10).– Which noted healer admitted in 1870 to being sometimes controlled by Jesus?
11).– Why did Emma Hardinge Britten return to the public platform in Britain in
September 1881?
12).– Who found that the mediumship of John Sloan had always a peculiar personal
quality which gave it a unique charm, but admitted that under control Sloan seemed to be
a greater and sweeter man than when out of it?
——§——
419
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart Alexander,
published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-
9557050-6-9., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 294-296:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan The Mystery Show Trial,by Robert Hartley published by H Pr (Publishing),
London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt
pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling,
by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:— then—Occasional
Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9., available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara & Ann
Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback ISBN: 978-
0-951-4534-9-0., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 1-4:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 106-
107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry H.
Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9.,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45Psypioneer references by Leslie
Price pages 39-42:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009. ISBN:
9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by
Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-056667-1.,
available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
——§——
420
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting and
posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe”
to psypioneersub@btinternet.comor “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
——§——
