{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 6766","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n62_jul_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N62 July 1889","mylang":"de"}
No. LXII.-VoL. IV. JULT,1889.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
International Congre88 of Physiological Psychology
Meeting of the Council .. . . . . . . . .
Correspondence :-
Mr. Hansen's Hypnotic Expcrlments ..
The Vision of Mr. Rawlln. ..
D, D. Home, Hi. Life Bud MiN.ion ..
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF PHYSIOLOGICAL
PSYCHOLOGY,
PAGE
.. 97
.. 98
.. 99
.. 100
.. 101
We have now received the programme of questions to be discll88ed
at this Congress, which is to meet at Paris, in the Exhibition Grounds
from August 5th to 10th, We give the programme in the original
French. It will be seen that out of the nine subjects for discussion at
least two-Hallucinations and Hypnotism-are subjects in the investi-
gation of which our Society is taking a prominent part, As is pointed
out in the circular letter accompanying the programme, "the importance
of the questions treated, and the large number of French and other
savants who are likely to be at Paris on the occasion of the Exhibition,
cannot fail to make this Congress a very interesting one to philosophers,
physiologists, and doctors," We may add that it cannot fail also to
interest those concerned in Psychical Research.
PROGRAMME DU CONGRES.
I. Sens musculaire.
II. !Mle des mouvements dans la formation des images.
III. L'attention est-elle toujours determinee par des etats
aft'ectifs 1
IV. Etude statistique des hallucinations.
V. Les appetits chez les idiots et chez les imbeciles.
Vi Existe-t-il chez les alienes des impulsions motrices indepen-
dentes des images et des idees 1
VIi Les poisons psychiques.
VIIi HerMite:-
1° HerMite des ph6nomenes emotifs et de leur expresRion: 2° HerMite
des particularites dans la perception des couleurs ; 3° HerMite ,Ies memoires
speciales: 4° Heredites des aptitudes speciales (techniques, artistiques,
scientifiques) ; 5° Analyse psychologique de quelques tableaux
gcnealogiques.
IX. Hypnotisme.
1° Des causes d'erreurs dans l'obRervation des phenomenes de suggestion
hypnotique ; 2° Le 80mmeil normal et Ie sommeil hypnotique ; 3° HerMite
A
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1·ch. [July. 1889.
de III. sensibilite hypnotique: 4° Le pouvoir moteur des images chez les sujets
hypnoti.res et les mouvements inconscients (6criture automatique, &c.); 5°
Le dedoublement de III. personalitk dansl'hypnotisme et 1'lI.lienation melltale ;
6° Les phenomenes de trallsfert ; 7° Essai d'une terminologie precise daus
les questions d'hypnotisme.
Reports will be drawn up on each of these questions and sent
to members of the Congress before its opening.
Members of the Congress may also send in communications.
The Congress is under the management of a .. ComiM d'Organisa-
lion," consisting of: M. Charcot (president); MM. Magnan, Th. Ribot,
H. Taine (vice presidents); M. Ch. Richet (general secretary): MM. E.
Gley, L. Marillier (secretaries); M. H. Ferrari (treasurer); MM. Bris-
saud, Ochorowicz, Ruault, Sully-Prudhomme.
It is further supported by a "ComiM de PatrO'T/.age," consisting of:
for France, MM. H. Beaunis, A. Espinas, P.•Tanet; for Germany,
MM. Helmholtz, Wundt, Preyer; for England, MM. A. Bain, F.
Galton, Hughlings-Jackson, De Watteville; for Austria-Hungary,
MM. Exner, Hering, Meynert; for Belgium, M. Delbreuf; for Den-
mark, M. Lange; for the United States, Mr. William James; for
Italy, MM. Lombroso, Morselli, Mosso; for the Netherlands, M.
Engelmann; for Russia, MM. N. Grote, Mierzejewski, Tro'itzky; for
Sweden, M. Tigerstedt; for Switzerland, MM. Herzen, C. Vogt.
Those who remember how hypnotism was regarded even seven
years ago, when our Society was founded, will be interested in looking
through this list of names and observing that men of the highest
scientific reputation are now willing to lend their support to a congress
at which hypnotism is to form a staple subject of discussion.
Persons may become members of the Congress on payment of ten
francs, by applying to M. Charles RICHHT secretaire gr.neral du ComiM
d'Organisation, rue de l'UniversiM 15, aParis.
Members and Associates of the Society for Psychical Research
may, if they prefer it, apply through Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Leckhamp-
ton House, Cambridge. Applications can only be made through Mr.
Myers up to the end of July.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a meeting of the Council held on Ma.y 31st, the President in the
chair, the following Members were also present :-Lieut.-Colonel J.
Hartley, Dr. A. T. Myers, Messrs. T. Barkworth, Walter Leaf, F. W.
H. Myers, Frank Podmore, and R. Pearsall Smith.
On the proposition of Mr. ~'. W. H. Myers, M. Joseph Kleiber,
of St. Petersburg, was elected an Hon. Associate.
Digitized by Google
July, 1889.] .Iottrnal 0/ Soc-iety /01' Psycitic(tl Research. 99
In recognition of the literary work she is doing for the Society, it
was resolved to elect Miss N..Robertson (now an Associate) as an
Hon. Associate. Also, at her request, in order to borrow books from
the library, it was agreed that Miss Shove's name be transferred from
the list of Associates to that of Members. Colonel H. H. Murray
R.A., was elected an Associate.
The death of the Countess of Haddingtoll, a Member of the Society,
was recorded with regret.
Several presents to the library were reported, including a number
of pamphlets, from Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace. A vote of thallks was
passed to the donors. Particulars will be given in the next supple-
mentary list of additions to the library.
Varions matters of routine business were attended to.
It was agreed that the next Meeting of the Oouncil should be on
Monday, July 8th, at 4.30 p.m., the General Meeting being held in
the evening as already arranged.
OORRESPONDENOE.
MR. HANSEN'S HYPNOTIC EXPERIMENTS.
To the Editor qf the Journal of the SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Sm,-May I offer one or two remarks ou the accollnt of Mr. Hantlen's
demontltrations ill the June number of the Jowrnalf First as regards the
time experiments. Their accuracy is, I think, overtltated. I timed everyone, I
believe, and the generd.l impret!8ion I got was that the subject woke up usually
half a minute too soon, though after waking, when he came to perform any
specific actioll, he seemed very close to the right tille. Only once, however,
do I remember noticing absolute accuracy.
Secondly, as regards the failure of the sneezing experiment. It will be
remembered that the lady ill question rejoined her friendtl in the audience
before the specified time had elapsed. Now the cause of failure may have
been due to her attention being otherwise occupied in conversation at the
proper moment. This idea is borne out by what happened to a boy, who
was told at a definite number of minutes after waking to go to the table,
perform tlome small experiment there, lie down and go to tlleep. The boy
at the given time went to the table, did what he had been told, and was j.ust
bending to lie down 011 the floor whell someone spoke to him and distracted
his attention. He looked confll>!ed, answered as best he could, but when
the conversation dropped no longer lay down, but went to sleep standing.
This result raises an interesting qllestion--How far other occupation at the
proper time prevents post-hypnotic suggestiolls being carried out.
Thirdly, with regard to the taste experiments. It seems to me that too
much weight ought not to be given to failures on this point, fur it is notorious
that there are no very good terms to describe the various taste and smell-
sensations, so that a very vague description might have been lIleant accurately.
A patient, for instance, described the same taste as "bitter" and "like salt."
. IU
c1d~ •nt-'r' A
Digitized by - g\~
100 JO'U'I'nal 0/ Society /0'1' Psychical Resea1·ch. [July, 1889.
I suppose bitterness is hardly the quality many of us would ascribe to salt-
certainly I should not, but how to describe the taste except as saltness, I am
sure I don't know. Then again with gallic acid. One coul~ hardly expect a
boy, like the subject under experiment, to identify this subst&nce-unleBB
indeed "gallic acid" is merely a grand scientific term for some vt'ry well
known substance: for I am free to confess I have no idea what gallic acid may
be. The only experimeuts here to which I should be inclined to attach any
weight were those with salt and saccharine. But indeed it seems to me that
taste and smell-experiments must always be very precarious, for apart from
the want of a good terminology, different subjects must be capable of very
different degrees of discernment according to their natural endowments and
pOBBibilities of cultivation. A profeBBional chemist, for instance, would
separate easily many substances which to others might seem identical.
Lastly, in reference to the production of unilateral catalepsy by paBSt's,
it was remarked to me at the time that the demonstrator's logic was at fault;
for the subject being already in the hypnotic state, ought not suggestion to
have been sufficient without. further passes, if the subject was really amenable
to suggestion 1 The same remark applies to many recorded experiments in
catalepsy. Perhaps, however, it has been found that mere suggestion will
not send a subject into a deeper stage.1 }'. H. MATTHEWS.
P.S.-One point about sneezing I omitted to mention. The reporter says
the movements produced in one case "more nearly resembled coughing than
sneezing." Now, sneezillg takes many forms; and I kllow personally one
lady whose sneezes are almost identical in sound with those produced by the
boy under suggestion.
THE VISION OF 1IIR. RAWLINS.
To the Editor of the Journal of the SOCIETY FOIL PSYCHlC,\L RESEARCH.
SIR,-With regard to the narrative L 830, given in the June JOURNAL, I
should like to ask what was the actual time the occurrence took place, to
estimate its relation with the time of the vision as stated by Mr. Rawlins,
viz., about 4.45 p.m.; but more particularly if the Ic/Wwled,ge of the occurrence
had reached Mr. Rawlins' servallt (who told him of it on his arrival at home)
PRIOR to the time of the vision 1 Also, if the servant bad been informed, or
bad been a witneB8 of the occurrence.
So exciting an event might bave been an adequate stimulus to the mind
of the servant to cause transference of the idea to Mr. Rawlins telepathically,
tbrough a mere casual thought of the former-such as "I wonder if master
will have heard of it 1" or "I'll tell him wben he comes home," or, "Will
he not be surprised to hear it 1" &c. H. VENlIIAN.
[We may take this opportunity to mention that we have ascertained
from the Ti11UJ8 of the following day that the attempt on the Queen's life was
made a few minutes after her arrival at the station at 5.25 p.m. Mr.
Rawlins states that the time of the vision and the fact coincided, as far as
he could calculate, and gives the time as about 4.45 p.m., as far as he can
remember.-ED.]
1 Purely verbal Buggestion is probably sufficient in Bome caseB. [Compare
Proceedings, Vol. IV., p. 516.-ED.]
Digitized by Google
July,l889.] .Journal of Society for P8'!Jchical Research. 101
"D. D. I,IOME, HIS LIFE AND MISSION."
By MADAME DUNGLAS HOME. (London: Triibner, 1888.)
The volume in which Madame Home, the second and surviving wife
of David Dunglas Home, has dellcribed her late husband's career I\S a
" medium" is one which assuredly calls for serious notice on the part
of all who interest themselves in any form of supernormal phenomena.
We have delayed our review for two reasons mainly,-in the first place,
in the hope (now gratified) of being permitted to examine the originals
of the important letters cited in the course of the work; and in the
second place with the object of. collecting such further evidence-
whether corroborative or the reverse-as a year's inquiry could procure
for us.
Let us take these two points first, and see where the evidence now
stands, as compared with its prima facie aspect when the book a.ppeared
in t·he summer of 1888. Firstly, then, Madame Home has been good·
enough to meet one of us (Mr. Myers), in Paris i and has there allowed
him freely to examine the collection of autograph MSS., on which the
book is founded. He thus went through the let,ters of more than a
hundred correspondents (an imperfect list, made at the time, is given in an
Appendix), and he compared these letters, ill important cases textually,
in other cases in a more general manner, with the printed excerpts
or translations in Madame Home's volume. The conclusion is that
the letters given in the volume may be confidently accepted as genuine.
In many cases the handwriting of the correspondents was already
known to Mr. Myers; in many othAr cases there were postmarks,
official stamps, crests, monograms, &c., on the letters which indicated
their date or source; and in no case was there any circumstance of
suspicion. The letters textually examined were found to be correctly
given in the book, with some of those slight gramlIlatical corrections.
excisions of unimportant matter, &c., which are often needful when
private, hastily-written letters are sent to the press. In no case was
any unfair excision or alteration observed. Mr. Veitch, the translator
of the work from Madame Home's French into English, joined with
Madame Home in giving any information desired.
It was evident also that, as stated in the book, there is a good deal
of further matter, of the same tendency, which has not yet been
printed.
We need hardly say that we have not the slightest reason to suppose
that either Madame Home or Mr. Veitch would lend themselves to
any unfairness. But we hold (and Madame Home shares this view)
that it is our duty towards the promulgator of letters so startling as
A2
Digitized by Google
102 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [July, 1889.
these not to take their genuineness for granted, but to assure ourselves
thereof with reasonable care before criticising the matter which these
letters contain. Thus far, then, we feel ourselves on firm ground, and
we have reason to hope, moreover, that these documents, which are filed
in a way convenient for reference, may be ultimately placed in some
position where inspection may be possible to future inquirers.
As regards our second aim,-the acquisition of further evidence,
making either for or against the validity of Home's claims-we have
had a certain amount of success. Several fresh cases cunfirmatury of
those given in the book will be found in our Appendix. On the other
hand, we have found no allegations of fraud 011 which we should be
justified in laying much stress. Mr. Robert Browning has told to one
of us the circumstances which mainly led to that opinion of Home
which was expressed in M,'. Sludge the Medium. It appears that a
lady (since dead) repeated to Mr. Browning a statement made to her
by a lady and gentleman (since dead), as to their finding Home in the
act of experimenting with phosphorus on the production of "spirit-
lights," which (so far as Mr. Browning remembers) were to be rubbed
round the walls of" the room, near the ceiling, so as to appear when the
room was darkened. This piece of evidence powerfully impresseu Mr.
Browning; but it comes to us at third-hand, without written record, and
at a distance of nearly 40 years.l
We have received one other account, from a gentleman of character
and ability, of a seance, in very poor light, where the "spirit-hand"
moved in sllch a way as to seem dependent on the action of Home's
arms and legs. This account is subjoined as Appendix D. We may
add that few, if any, of the lights seen at Home's seances could (as they
are described to us) have been contrived by the aid of phosphorus.
There is also a frequently-repeated story that Home was found at
the Tuileries (or at Compiegne, or at Biarritz) to be using a stuffed
hand, and was consequently forbidden the Imperial Court. We have
tried in France to get at the fountain-head of this story, but without
success. No definite date is given to the narrative; but it seems
probably to be a form of the report spread in 1858 (Life, p. 106) that
Home was then in a French prison. If so, it is refuted by the letter
(Life, p. 199, and seen in our inspection) from M. Hinard, written in
1863 in obedience to a command from the Empress Eugenie. We
cannot find any later period at which to fix the vague charge, for Home's
1 'Ve must protest against Madame Home'8 supposition tha.t Mr. Browning was
influenced by jealousy at the bestowal of a wreath by .. the spirits" on hi8 poete88-
wife instea.i of himself. No one who persona.lly knows Mr. Browning will ascribe to
him a feeling so unworthy. On the other hand, Mrs. Browning's rapid and
enthusiastic conversion to Spiritualism mayverynaturallyhave causedher husband'8
belief that the whole thiug was a delusion to assume in his mind a painful intensity.
Digitized by Google
July,1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 103
next visit to France would seem to have been in September, 1870,
when the Imperial entertainments were a thing of the past.
Weare still anxious to receive evidence on either side,-favourable
or unfavourable. And we have still one important block of evidence
to produce. Mr. Crookes has promised that he will contribute to the
next Part of our Proceedings some notes of seances with Home, taken
at the time, but never yet published. But beyond this, we are
inclined to think that little further first-hand evidence, of either type,
will now be forthcoming. While, then, we think that our delay in
noticing this work has in some ways placed us on safer ground, we feel
bound now to give the best account that we can of it j though we shall
prefer rather to analyse its astonishing contents than to set ourselves
up as arbiters of what the reader is bound to make of them.
During Home's lifetime the accounts which appeared of his pheno·
mena-always excepting Mr. Crookes'-were of a very incomplete and
even unsatisfactory kind. The principal record was contained in
Incidents in my Life (1863 and 1812), in' which book very few names
of witnesses were given. Anonymous narratives of such an unusual
character, even if taken as 1)(J1l1i Me, could not possibly convince the
scientific world; and it was, moreover, open to the ordinary reviewer to
question the genuineness of testimonies thus loosely adduced. On the
other hand, Home asserted that he withheld these names simply from
consideration for the owners, who feared the ridicule and obloquy
that awaited them if they came forward to bear witness. " Certainly"
(adds Madame Home) "his consideration for timid friends was carried to
the verge of Quixotism; but if a mistake, it was a very unselfish and
generous one." It has been Madame Home's object to show that the
reason thus given by Home was the true one j-that the testimonies
cited in Incidents were perfectly genuine, and that many more. remained
behind. With this view she has put names to the records in
Incidents, and has quoted letters from other witnesses, entirely concor-
dant with those records. In so doing she has no doubt printed some
private letters without express permission, and has sometimes allowed
expressions to appear which were by no means meant for publicity.
On the other hand. some of those who shrank at the time from
appending their names to accounts of the marvels which they had
witnessed (gratuitously, and at their own request), are willing to accept
this opportunity of making their testimony as complete as it can now
be made. Unfortunately, in many cases, no care or candour can
compensate for the absence of not·es taken at the time.
The evidential value of Incidents in my Life has been materially
increased by the following letter, written to Mr. Myers, January let,
1889, by Mr. W. M. Wilkinson, the well-known solicitor, of 44,
Digitized by Google
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1889.
Lincoln's Inn-fields. Next to Mr. Crookes and Lords Dunraven and
Crawford, Mr. Wilkinson is perhaps the most important surviving
witness.
Commenting on a reference of Madame Home's (p. 199) to Dr. R.
Chambers' assistance in preparing Ineidents of my Life (Part I.), Mr.
Wilkinson says (and this is not inconsistent with Madame Home's
account) that Dr. Chambers wrote only the introduction and concluding
chapter of that work. " I wrote," says Mr. Wilkinson, "very nearly
the whole of it, Home staying with us at Hampstead, and producing
all the letters and documents, and giving me the necessary information.
Some of it he wrote himself, but very little." Again, as to the
important preface to the second edition of Incidents, dealing with Sir
D. Brewster, Mr. Wilkinson says: "Not a line of it was written
by him [Home], but by me, from information furnished by Robert
Chambers." Mr. Wilkinson adds: "I submitted the proof-sheets of the
whole work, as they came from the printer, to Dr. Chambers, who made
hardly any correction in them."
We have really, therefore, a considerable body of evidence as to
Home; and can discuss with fairly ample materials the three questions
which are necessary in any inquiry into a medium's career: (1) Has he
ever been convicted of fraud 1 (2) Has he satisfied any trained
observer in a series of experiments selected by the observer and not by
himself1 (3) Were the phenomena which the ordinary observers
witnessed entirely beyond the known scope of the conjurer's art 1
1. The answer to the first question has already been implicitly
given. There has been nothing which we can style conviction of fraud.
There is a rumour as to trickery with lights; there is an observation
pointing to trickery with hands; and there is of course the Lyon case
(see Appendix). In this case, although we cannot feel sure that
Home's evidence was strictly truthful throughout, there is, so far as
we can discover, no distinct assertion that any phenomena were pro-
duced by fraudulent means. Such was, no doubt, the inference drawn
by those who hold that messages were given urging that money should
be givl'n to Home. But from our point of view the question of the
content of messages must always be kept distinct from the question of
their mechani.'m/,. We know that automatic messages given in absolute
good faith (as in the Newnham case) will often include false statements
apparently intended to please the operator. In other words the desires
of the conscious self will often shape the messages of the unconscious
self. And in all cases of "mediumship,"-Home's among the rest-
the extent of the part played by the medium's unconscious self is
precisely one of the most fundamental problems.
The Lyon case, therefore, whatever its importance as an illustration
Digitized by GOL
July. 1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1'Ch. 105
of Home's c1u:tracter, has no clear bearing on the reality of his powers.
And the same thing may practically be said as to the other accusations.
If true, they would of course destroy our confidence in Home's probity.
But they would not allow us to assume in his case, (as in the case of
certain other reputed mediums,) that skilful conjuring alone would
suffice to explain the whole range of his phenomena. Many of them,-
as the levitations (of himself, or e.g., of a table with Dr. Hawksley's
friend standing on it)-some of the fire-tests, the apparitions, &c.,-are
outside the range of conjuring in the sense of prepared illusions, or of
prestidigitation. If fraudulent, they must fall under another heading,
as hallucinations, generated in the bystanders, by some means unknown.
So far as regards conjuring, then, we may say with confidence that
there has been neither actual exposure, nor even inferential ground for
explaining his phenomenain this way. Readers of Mrs. Sidgwick's paper
on the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, (Proceedinfls, Vol. IV.,
p. 45); of the various discussions of Mr. Eglinton's phenomena in our
Proceedings and J(JUrnal; and of Mr. Hodgson's report (Proceedings,
Vol. III.) on so·called Theosophical Phenomena, will recognise the great
importance of this primary admission.
2. The second question which we have to ask as regards a medium is
whether his powers have been tested by any careful series of experi-
ments, under the direction of an observer of recognised competence.
In this important respect Home stands pre-eminent. The experi-
ments of Mr. Crookes, though we could wish that they had been more
numerous, form a testimony to "physical phenomena" which has not
hitherto been rivalled in the bistory of any other medium. No direct
objection to them has been sustained; the main objection being the
indirect one that other mediums with whom Mr. Crookes has obtained
striking results have subseqnently, under different conditions, been
detected in fraud. Important as this drawback is, it does not
necessarily affect the experiments with Home, and taking these as
they stand, onr only reason for withholding thorough· conviction
must be the general principle that the experiments of no single
savant, so long as they lack confirmation from other savants, can be
allowed to dominate our belief in matters so fundamental.
But here, again, there is a ditference. Although Mr. Crookes' experi-
ments with mediums other than Home were not corroborated by
independent scientific observers, his experiments with Home do derive
strong corroboration from the testimony of Lord Crawford (then styled
Lord Lindsay, or the Master of Lindsay), himself a savant of some dis-
tinction. And the long series of observations privately printed by the
present and the late Lords Dunraven, though not so strictly a scientific
record as Mr. Crookes' Researches, forms a body of testimony in its
Digitized by Google
106 Journal of Society for P8ychical &8earch. [July, 1889.
own way unique, and not further removed from laboratory experiments
than from the loose record of the mere occasional observer.
S. And this brings us to the third requisite of a medium's career.
Besides the absence of proved fraud, besides the careful testimony of
the savant, (unless indeed that testimony is much more abuMafll than
it has been hitherto in the case of any medium whatever), we need to
assure ourselves that the phenomena which the medium presents to the
ordinary witness,-which form, so to say, the staple of his production,-
are of such a kind as to be clearly beyond the range of an accomplished
conjurer. Herein lies the great importance of practical imitatiofl of a
medium's physical phenomena. The ingenuity ofMr. Maskelyne supplies
a standing warning against reposing credence in any "manifestation"
produced amid surroundings over which the paid medium has complete
control. And the slate-writing career of Mr. S. J. Davey (Procadings,
Vol. IV., p. 405) warns us that experiments of that special kind-now
frequently offered by mediums-although they may sound conclusive,
nevertheless do not leave a sufficient margifl of impossibility to convince
us that there has not been some moment of deception which has led the
observer widely astray. Most experiments of this class depend for their
trustworthiness on the continuous attention of the observer j and
Messrs. Hodgson and Davey have shown how difficult it is even for
persons -Cul1y warned of the need of attention to maintain iii on the
needful points, and without unconscious distractions.
But of COUTse, however wide a margin we leave for p08Bible prestidigi-
tation,-however unstable we take human attention to be,-there may
be phenomena which cannot be thus explained,-which are too gro8B and
palpable to depend for their straDgeneSB on a mere misdescription of such
commonplace incidents as those, for instance, which really took place
at Mr. Davey'S seances. When, for example, a roomful of people believed
that they saw glowing coals placed on the head of Mr. S. O. Hall, and
his white hair drawn up in a pyramid over the bright red mass, the
value of the narrative does not depend on the absolutely continuous
attention of Mr. Hall and the rest during the "four or five minutes "
for which the experiment was prolonged. Something strange took place
which can hardly depend on mere misdescription j there was either
positive hallucination, or supernormal fact. And a great number of
Home's manifestations were of'a character as marked as this.l It is
not needful to give a list of these j for there has practically been no
attempt to explain by conjuring the great bulk of the recorded pheno-
mena. If we assume (to combine the usual suggestions) that Home's
own abodes were fitted with electric mechanism for the production of
I Several previouslyunpUblishedcaaeewill be found inAppendices E, F,G, H,I, J,
K, and some already publiahed are referred to iu Appendices L, M.
~ Digilizedby Google
July,l889.] JO'Urnal Of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. 107
raps; that he always was well provided with phosphorus, stuffed
hands, lazy-tongs, and trick accordions; and that his legs and feet had
the suppleness and grasp of a monkey's i-we still shall have made no
considerable impression, say, on Lord Dunraven's or on Lord Lindsay's
series of phenomena. And we find that experts in conjuring, (several
-of whom we have consulted,) however little they may believe in
Home's pretensions, are disposed rather to reject wholesale· than to
explain in detail the more remarkable records.
May there, then, be good reasons for such wholesale rejection' Oan
we frame a theory which shall cover the phenomena without admitting
that so many marvels-which in their pale imitations by others have
been often found to be arrant impostures-were in the case of this
man genuine and true ¥
It is impossible to explain the records by conscious falsehood on the
-part of the reporters. And the hypothesis of collective halltt.dnation,
produced by Home's suggestion, is almost the only one which remains
to us.1
There is a story-we cannot get it at first-hand, and we give it only
.as possibly true-that on one occasion when an Indian juggler was
.called on to perform before a large party the well·known feat with a
boy and a basket, an English officer came up when the performance
had begun, and instead of joining the group of spectators climb~d into
.a tree near at hand, and watched what occurred. The juggler took the ;-
boy under the basket; thus far the officer and the audience saw alike.
Then the sound of chopping was heard, and from under the basket the
juggler threw out objects which the spectators recognised, with growing
horror and agitation, as the severed limbs of the child. The officer, on
the other hand, perceived these objects to be the segments of a large
pumpkin, and saw nothing dreadful in the proceeding. Then the
juggler collected the pieces, took them back into the basket, and let the
child run out. The audience cried aloud with relief and astonishment;
the officer saw nothing odd in the fact that the child still possessed the
legs and arms of which no one had attempted to deprive him.
If this story be true, and if Home, like this juggler, had the power
-of suggesting hallucinations-without any process of hypnotisation-to
sane and healthy witnesses, this would certainly take us a long way
-further in explaining the records with which we have to deal.
The experiments on hypnotic suggestion and on suggestion in the
·waking state which the last few years have seen, have greatly
extended our notion of what strong insistence can do in the way of
.generating hallucinatory visions in other minds. But two points of
lSee Proceeding8, Society for Psychical Research, Vol. I., p.240, for an early
.exprellioD of this hypotheaia.
Digitized by Google
108 ,Journal of Society f01' Psychical Research. [Jllly,l889.
difference between, say, the Nancy experiments and Home's seances
will at once occur to us. At Nancy, and wherever "suggestion" is
largely practised, it is found that even trained subjects continue to
present mal'ked differences in suggestibility,-that A can be made to
see suggested objects more easily than B, C to perform suggested acts
more readily than D, &c. But in the case of almost all Home'a
phenomena, except some shadowy figures, eyes, lights, and semi-palpable
hands, all the persons present perceived the same thing. When heavy
,bodies, for instance, were moved a distance without apparently being
touched, there was never anyone to say that he saw Home get up and
move them. In one celebrated instance, indeed, it was aSBerttd that
something of this sort happened; and since this incident shows that the
hypothesis was present to the mind of at least one samnt during the
.height of Home's powers, it may be briefly recounted here.
Lords Lindsay and Adare had printed a statement that Home
floated out of the window and in at another, in .Ashley-place, S.W.,
December 16th, 1868. A third person, Captain Wynne, was present
at the time, but had written no separate account.
Dr. Carpenter, in an article in the (Jontempurary Ret.rew for January,
1876, thus commented on the incident.
The most diverse accounts of the facts of a s6ance will be given by a
believllr and a sceptic. A whole party of believers will affirm that they saw
Mr. Home float out of one window and in at another, while a single honest
sceptic declares that Mr. Home wa~ sitting in his chair all the time. And in
this last case we have an example of a fact, of whieh there is ample illustration,
that, during the prevalence of an epidemic delusion, the honest testimony of
any number of individuals, on one side, if given under a preposseBBion, is of
no more weight than that of a single adverse witness-if so much.
This passage was of course quoted as implying that Captain Wynne
had somewhere made a statement contradicting Lords Lindsay and
Adare. Home wrote to him to inquire; and he replied (in a letter
printed, with excisions of 'some rather too contemptuous expressions,
p. 307 of this Life, and shown to Mr. Myers) in the following terms :-
I remember that Dr. CHrpenter wrote some nonsense about that trip of
yours along the side of the house in Ashley-place. I wrote to the Xediwm to
say I was present as a witneBB. Now I don't think that anyone who knows
rue wQuld for one moment pay that I was a victim to hallucination or any
other humbug of the kind. The fact of your having gone ont of the window
and in at the other I can swear to.
It seems, therefore, that the instance selected by Dr. Carpenter to
prove the existence of a hallucination,-by the exemption of one person
present from the illusion,-was of a very unfortunate kind; suggesting,
Digitized by Google
~ul,..l889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 109
indeed, that a controversialist thus driven to draw on his imagination
for his facts must have been conscious of a weak case.
But apart from the question of the participation of all the persons
present in these supposed hallucinations, we have another marked
-distinction between Home's seances and ordinary experiments in
suggested hallucination. It seems plain that Home's sitters fre-
·quently saw the phenomena without receiving from Home any audible
.suggestion whatever. Sometimes, indeed, Home-apparently entranced
-announced what was about to happen. But often the manifestations
are recorded as having been sudden, startling, and unannounced; or as
having occurred while Home was silent and motionless. In such cases,
therefore, if there were suggestion at all, it must apparently have been
mental suggestion, or thought-transference. Now our readers are
aware that we have long been collecting all the cases of this sort which
we can find. But we have no success recorded which would have
been of any appreciable use in such seances as Home's. And difficult
though it was to suppose that all the persons present at one of Home's
seances would be equally susceptible to vllTbal suggestion, the difficulty
is intensified a hundredfold when that susceptibility to menJal sug-
gestion-of which we have some difficulty in proving the very existence,
so rare a thing is ito-has to be assumed of a group of miscellaneous
sitters, often strangers to Home up to the very hour of the seance.
Let us turn now to another aspect of the problem ,vhich Home's
life presents; to the communications or meaaages. given at his seances.
The main hypotheses which we have here to consider are the fol-
Jowing:-
1. The messages may have been fraudulent; the information having
been collected by previous inquiry, and then doled out as though from
a spirit.
We give below a sufficient selection from the messages to enable
the reader to judge as to the facility of fraud of this kind. It will be
observed that in most of the recorded cases (though not in all), the
special pieces of information given were volunteered by Home (or the
~'communicating intelligence") and not selected by the sitters. On the
-other hand, many of the facts reported as given are of an extremely
private nature.
2. A second hypothesis is that of thought.transference from the
minds of the persons present. Assuming .that Home himself had no
knowledge of the facts contained in the messages, those facts were at
any rate known in most cases, (but not in all,) to some of the persons
.present. When we say known, we stretch the term to include all facta
-which had at some time or other been present to the mind. For we
Dave had reasons to believe that facts long forgotten by the conscious
A3
Digitized by Google
110 Journal oj Society j(YT' P8ychical Research. [July, 1889.
self may still be present to some unconscious stratum of the mind, and'
we cannot, therefore, deny the possibility of their being telepathically
transferred to some other mind.
3. A third hypothesis is, of course, that the communications did
actually proceed from the spirits professing to utter them. We hav&
no apriori right whatever to pronounce this impossible. But on th&
other hand we know too well that mere assertitms as to the identity
of the "communicating intelligence" are worthless; and that such
identity is an exceedingly difficult thing to establish.
Considering the importance of the question, it will be well to lay
before our readers a brief abstract of the principal cases of "recognition,p
which Madame Home's work contains,--omitting those which rest on
Home's uncorroborated testimony. These cases are of very different
evidential value. Some were narrated by Home himself in Incide1lt8
of my Life, but have such corroboration as is given by Mr. Wilkinson's
revision, and by the absence of any protest from the persons of whom
the stories are told. But many are first-hand accounts, volunteered by
independent witnesses, of messages closely affecting themselves, and
sometimes involving incidents which can hardly have been known to-
servants or dependents.
The subjoined list follows the paging of Madame 'Home's book:-
1. p. lI~.-Mr. S. B. Brittan's testimony. Home suddenly becomes
entranced; says "Hannah Brittan is here,"-a relative long since dead, and
whose existence, as Mr. Brittan believes, was not known to anyone "in all
that region." Home, entranced, actaas though a melancholic in terror of hell ;
Hannah Brittan "became insane from believing in the doctrine of endless
punishment."
2. p. 19.-Home's statement in Light. ana Shadow. ofSpiritualufn; (but
there is independent evidence that Mr. Ward Cheney and his family con·
tinued warm friends and believers in Home's powers.) Home goes for the·
first time to stay with Mr. Ward Cheney in Connecticut; hears rustling silk
dress; sees phantasmal figures; hears voice, "I am annoyed that a coffin-
should have been placed above mine"; then again: "What is more, Seth
had no right to cut that tree down." The family recognise description of
figure; admit meaning of second message; declare the message about the
coffin to be nonsense. Vault is opened; a coffin is found to have been placed
on that of Mrs. - - ; voice then states that reMon of message was to·
procure conviction of identity.
3. p. 33.-Mr. Burr's testimony. A paper was lifted from the floor by
a hand of peculiar conformation. "The fingers were of an almost preter-
natural length, and seemed to be set wide apart." Other details are given.
Hand writes name of a deceased lady "in her own proper haudwriting."
The hand resembled this lady's. "A daguerrotype portrait of Mrs. Burr's.
cousin," says Madame Home, "is now in my possession,-the hands and
fingers have the very same wasted look and singular conformation so minutelT
Digitized by Google
July, 1889.) Jou1vnal Of Society for Psychical Research. 111
described by Mr. Burr." [I have seen the daguerrotype, and observed the
very unusual look and position of the fingers.-F.W.H.M.]
4. p. 49.-Extract from Dr. Garth Wilkinson's Evening. toitk Mr. Home
and eM Spirits. Me88&ge is spelt out on Dr. Wilkinson's knee by touches as
from a deceased friend Mell8&ge for widow demanded. co The Immortal
Loves" is spelt out. The family recognise this as characteristic, since deceased
was wont to speculate as to whether or not the afection, survive the body.
6. p. 59.-Inci.dent,ofmy Life. CountessOrsiniholdsan album and pencil,
and asks her dead father to write his name. Pencil is taken from her hand,
name of Count Orloff is twice written by unseen hand, and words, "My
dear daughter," in handwriting recognised by a friend as Count Orloffs.
6. p. 87.-Incldents of my Life. Count A. de Komar asks for proof of
presence of his daughter; sees and recognises a hand; others at first see a
misty appearance of a hand; then see nothing, even while Count de Komar
is kissing the hand. Hand appears more distinctly at another 8nce; lifts
itself to De Komar's lips and vanishes.
7. p. 93.-Incident,. Home visits Fontenelle's family at ChAteau de
Rambuses; sees phantom of boy, describes him to Count L., recognises
portrait, though not knowing that portrait of boy exists.
8. p. l00.-Incidents. Child's hand writes me88&ge and signs it with
characteristic fault of orthography-unknown to Home but known to parents
present,-" Denis" for "Denise."
9. p. 146.-Dr. Gully'S evidence. Robert Chambers asks if spirit of his
father will play his favourite ballad. ' Ye banks and braes' is played on flute
notes of accordion; that ballad, as played on flute, having been his father's
favourite. Asks for another favourite air; the right one played.
10. p. 149.--Mr. S. C. Hall's evidence. Spirit of daughter of Dr.
Chambers raps me88&ge for her father-no one present knowing that Dr.
Chambers had had such a daughter. Spirit returns, blames Mr. Han for
Dot giving message, brings younger sister and gives as test the words" Pa,
love," the last which[younger 1]sister pronounced in life. Message as to affairs
is now given to Dr. Chambers aDd proves sag&Cions.
11. p. 150.-Mrs. Senior's evidence. Home in trance says to Mi.
Catherine Sinclair, "You knew James Ferguson"; sends message to be sent
to his SOD, mentions address.
12. p. 163.-Mrs. Senior's evidence. At their first meeting Mr. Home
describes Mr. Senior and adds, "You forgot to wind his watch, and how
miserable it made you." "Now this was a fact known to no living being but
myself. I hart wound the watch the night I lost my husband and resolved
never to let it go down again. I forgot to wind it one night, and my agony
was great when I discovered it in the morning, but I never mentioned it
even to my husband's sister, who was in the house with me." Home also
mentions" Mary," Mr. Senior's mother.
13. p. 154.-Mrs. Senior narrates how at another 8nce Home, entranced,
recalls private conversation (date, positions, and other details given)
between herself and her husband
14. p. 168.-Mr. Pears' evidence. At first meeting, Home, entranced,
Digitized by Google
112 Joul'nal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [July, 1889.
represents old Quaker, mentions name and facts only known to Mr. Pear~,
who recognises Quaker grandfather.
15. p. 173.-M. Tiedemann [MartMze's] evidence. Small hand touches
sitters; M. Tiedemann says, "If it is as I believe, let him spell name of
place where he was born and died." Pe1tta spelt out. [Not clear that Home
might not have known this.]
16. p. 177.-Mr. B. Coleman's evidence. At his first seance messages
are given by raps as from his aunts Elizabeth and Hannah. " I did not recog-
nise the names. I had never known of any aunts of those names," but he
learns that sisters of his father, thus named, died before he was born.
17. p. 196.-Mrs. S. C. Hall's testimony. Raps from decea.sed Madame
Home to Mr. Durham, sculptor, saying, "Thanks for your early morning
labour; I have often been near you." Mr. Durham had been rising early to
work at a bust of Madame Home intended as a present to Mr. Home-" this
fact was not even known to his own household."
18. p. 206.-Mrs. S. C. Hall's evidence. "Your father Colonel Hall," is
announced; test asked for, "The last time we met in Cork you pulled my
tail." Colonel Hall had worn a queue, and this fact ,vas correct.
19. p. 225.-Mrs. Chawner 1 (or rela.tive). Personation of a relation of
Mrs. Brouncker. "She and her sister feel conviuced that, though, to all
appearance, it was this gentleman-there was even his peculiar shake of the
hand, also a phrase quite peculiar to himself was used--yet, with all this, they
feel convinced that it was not he himself, but an evil spirit personating him
with his peculiarities. I said, ' Why shOuld an evil spirit know his ways and
phrases, &c.1' She answered, "That is the argument used but very easily met.
The Arch Fiend knows all about us and all our peculiarities, and makes use
of that knowledge in his temptations-and so, for his purpose, he can tell all
his emissaries." We quote this as at least a clear and definite theory. It
does not appear, however, to have received practical confirmation on the
occasion in question, as "the Lord's Prayer and various texts written on
small slips of paper" and concealed about Mrs. Brouncker's person did not
avail to intercept the manifestations.
20. p. 278.-Mrs. Hennings' testimony. Home says, "George is here"-
nephew of Mrs. Hennings, recently deceased; mentions accident from bite
of dog when a boy at Dulwich-correct. One of us has seen Mrs. Hennings,
who, although very old, retains a singularly bright intelligence. She con-
firmed this statement, and added several details. '
21. p. 278.-Mrs. Hennings' testimony. Home speaks in trance as from
her father; "The night before your father passed away you played whiat with
him," some details, and explanation as to provisions of will. "Mr, Home had
never seen my father, nor heard anything about him; and most wonderful to
me was this detail of such long-past events, known only to myself."
22. p. 288.-Lord Lindsay's testimony(now Lord Crawford). Lord Lindsay
misses train at Norwood, sleeps on sofa in Home's room; sees female figure
standing near Home's bed, which fades away; recognises face among other
photographs next morning; it was Home's deceased wife. Lord Adare (no,v
Lord Dunraven) and two others in Lord Adare's rooms, see (February, 1869)
a shadowy figure resembling this form, but cannot distinguish features.
July,I889.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. 113
23. P. 321.-Evidence of a friend of Mr. Alexander (reported by Mr.
A.). Home at Edinburgh; a Mr. H., a stranger, comes as substitute for
another person; raps say, "It is Aunt Margaret's loving John." Mr. H.
has an aunt, living far from Edinburgh, called Margaret, widow of a
John.
24. p. 322.-Same evidence. Raps give the name" Pophy Sophy." This
was pet name of a child whose mother and aunt were present. 'Raps
say to aunt, "You were not to blame, and I am happy." Aunt had
blamed herself morbidly for supposed carelessness in letting child catch
fever.
25. p. 369. -Dr Karpovitch'lI testimony. Home gives to General
Philosophoff the Christiall names and surnames of "three school-fellows
of his, who had been dead for years."
26. p. 377.-Mrs. Peck's testimony. "By permission I put several
mental qnestions, each of which was promptly and correctly answered, with
the full names of friends and relatives deceased, and circnmstances which
conld not have been known to any of those present; all, as I have stated,
having been previous to the past 24 hours strangers to me." (Mrs. Peck
was an American, staying at an hotel in Geneva.)
27. p. 378.-Mrs. Peck's testimony. Home, entranced, says: "There is
a portrait of his mother." " I made no reply; but my thought was, 'There
is no portrait of her.''' Home insists that there is, "with an open Bible
upon her knee." There was, in fact, a daguerrotype 30 years old, which Mrs.
Peck had forgotten, in attitude described-with indistinct book on knee,
which was, in fact, a Bible.
28. p. 381.--.Countess Panigai's testimony. At her first seance raps are
heard under her hands; they spell out the lIame of "Stella," give age at
death. " I was an utter stranger to Mr. and Mrs. Home. They had been
but a few days in Florence, and had heard my name for the first time when,
an hour or two before, a friend asked permission for me to be present at the
seance." "In my dress there was nothing to indicate mourning." Small hand
grasps Madame Panigai's, &c. Message continues, "And I know, mamma,
that you took the last pair of boots I wore, and hid them away with my
little white dress in a box that you had ordered for the purpose. You must
not again open the drawer where the box is placed until you hear distinct raps
on the bureau." "Not even my family knew anything of this box." Next
morning Madame Panigai invites a friend, and begins to tell her of the s~ance ;
friend hears raps on bureau, Madame Panigai unlocks drawer, unlocks box,
takes out boots. "On the elastic of one boot was imprinted a perfect star, and
in the centre of the star an eye. At each of the six points there is a letter
-united, they form the lIame of my darling. Not only had Mr. Home
never been within my house, but up to the time of compiling this account
-more than two years later-from my memoranda, taken at the time
when these events occurred, he has not even seen the house to my
knowledge, or his own."
29. p. 382.-Madame Panigai's evidence. Message refers to "an incident
known only to the nearest of my relatives." Madame Panigai says
mentally, "If you are in reality the spirit you claim to be, I ask you to take
Digitized by Google
114 JOUfT'nal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1889.
that rose from Henrietta and bring it to me." Mental request is complied
with by hand, apparently recognised as charaeteristic.
30. p. 382.-Madame Panigai's evidence. "Home said to Chevalier
Soffietti, 'There ill an old nurse of yours standing beside you-a negro
woman.' The Chevalier could recall no such person. 'She says you ought
not to forget her,' continued Mr. Home; 'for she saved your life when YOIl
were but three and a half years of age. You fell into a stream of water neara
mill and were just about to be drawn into a waterwheel when she rescued
you.' Chevalier Soffietti now recalled the whole, and acknowledged the
communication t~ be perfectly COlTect. He had been wholly unknown to
Mr. Home till within three hours of the message being given, and not one of
the remaining guests knew of the incident in question."
31. p. 38G.-Cavaliere Fellzi's evidence. Hand touches him; he asks for
proof that it is the hand he supposes it to be (his wife's); it is at once joined
by a very small hand. Child had died just before wife.
32. p. 403.-Testimony of E. L. Chelley. Home sends a communication
relatiug to family affairs, &c., as from Mr. Ward Cheney; member of his
family replies, "They were his words. No olle else could have spoken them."
33. p. 404.-Madame Home's evidence. Home had made a compact of
appearance after death with Henri Delaage. On July 17th, 1882, Home,
travelling with Madame Home in Switzerland, looked out into garden and
said, "There is Delaage." Home writes to Paris mentioning this; letter
appears in Figaro, .Tuly 22nd. Delaage had died July 15th.
34. p. 408.-Madame Home's testimollY. Het· uncle, M. N. Aksakoff, not
a Spiritualist nor believer in a future life, dies, April, 1882. Some weeks
afterwards, when Home and Madame Home are alone at Petersburg, raps
spelt out, "He begins to believe that he lives, but he often fears that it is a
dream." " Hardly had these words been spelt out when we heard sounds
resembling footsteps-the very step of my uncle-in the apartment adjoining
that in which we were; and the portiere between the two was drawn back.
We saw a band separate the curtains and then let them fall into their place.
I distinctly saw the full form of the spirit as be approached us. The rap-
pings, which had been silent for a moment, recommenced-' It is true, it is
true,' was spelt out; 'and there ill my sbadow,'-at that instant I felt
something placed in my hand" [a framed photograph of the deceased, from
the adjoining drawing-room.]
35. Case given in Appendix from Dr. Hawksley; he bears by telegraph
~f death of Mrs. Slingsby Shafto at a distance; mentions the fact to no one;
message is rapped out by table with name· of the deceased.
This list of identifications is a long one,-and quite unique in the
history of Spiritualism.l Let us look into it a little more closely. In
the first place, the sitters seem rarely to have felt the importance
of themselves asking for specific facts, instead of merely accepting
such facts as are offered. It does not, indeed, appear that any requests
are evaded j but they are usually forestalled. We have, however, requests
1 The nearest approach to it is in the experiencesof .. M. A. (Oxon)", as narrated
in a little work called Spirit Identity, now out of print.
Digitized by Google
~uly,l889.] Journal oj Society jM Psychical Re8earch. 115
made by sitters, and satisfactorily met., in cases 5, 6, 9, (Robert
.chambers), 25 (Mrs. Peck), 28 (Mme. Panigai). In these last two cases
"there are answers to mental questions.
Among the cases where information is volunteered the facts are
~~~~~~~~M~~~~~fu~M~
fact has been known, but forgotten; and in cases 2, 4, 10, 11, 16, the
facts are known to no one present.
Characteristic hands are seen in cases 3, 6, and handwriting
considered characteristic is given in cases, 3, 5, 8. Case 3 deserves
attention in its bearing on two possible views of the hands, (1) that they
were stuffed hands, (2) that they were hallucinations.
The hands are so often associated with actions which leave
permanent results, movements of objects, &c., at a distance from the
medium, and at the same time they melt away in the grasp or in the
air so suddenly, that their reported doings would need a strange
.combination of hallucination with machinery.
It will be seen that some observers, (as Dr. Hawksley and Serjeant
Cox), while insisting on the genuineness of the phenomena witnessed
through Home, attributed them either to Home's own spirit or to
spirits influencing him, but not in reality the spirits of the dead.
But this point we need not here discuss. Our object in this review
is evidential rather than speCUlative. We propose the question:
.. Have Home's phenomena ever been plausibly explained as conjuring
tricks, or in accordance with known laws of Nature 1" And we
answer, "No; they have not been so explained-nor can we so
{lxplain them." In discussing this special question we can claim such
competence as may accrue to us from having taken a share in various
exposures of phenomena depending on conscious or unconscious fraud,
and from a pretty wide acquaintance with the history of Spiritualistic
and "Theosophical" impostures. We have also had the advantage of
consulting experts in conjuring, a letter from one of whom will be
found in the Appendix; and we have certainly studied the evidence
more carefully than many of those who have reviewed it elsewhere.
Here, however, our competence ends. We did not witness the
facts; and no expression of belief or disbelief on our part can
have independent value. Or, rather, the only guidance which
our degree of belief can give must be in answer to a definite
practical inquiry. If our readers ask us, "Do you advise us to go on
experimenting in these matters as though Home's phenomena were
genuine 1" we answer, Yes. But if they ask us, "Do you believe in
Home's phenomena as you believe in the laws of Nature 1" we answer,
No. Our belief that "fire burns" is indefinitely stronger than our belief
that, under Home's auspices, fire sometimes did not burn. Or, to put the
Digitized by GOL
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July,l889.-
matter in a more abstract form, we feel absolutely certain that nothing
occurred in Home's presence which was in any sense miraculous-in·
any sense a departure from the universal and immemorial order of
things. But, while on the one hand, as already stated, no one has as
yet explained Home's phenomena by aposteriori criticisms, so also, on·
the other hand, no one has as yet shown by apriul'i reasoning that
they are necessarily inconsistent with the plan of the universe. We do-
not say that either or both of these feats may not some day be
performed; we only say that neither we, nor others, have as yet-
performed them.
For our own part, the plainest moral which we draw from the life
of Home is of a practical kind. Neither Spiritualist nor savant can
possibly be satisfied with the condition in which the evidence to Home's
phenomena is left. Madame Home has zealously and skilfully striven
to collect what can still be collected. But, at best, we have but a
casual and fragmentary record of that which, from any point of view
whatever, ought to have been noted with careful accuracy, and described
in full detail. As the matter stands, it seems as though every irrational
sentiment in turn had fought against the preservation of such records
as might have given us a true and complete picture of a series of
occurrences which, whatever their true explanation, are among the
most singular which history records. It can only be hoped that,
should such phenomena be again offered to observation, those who
witness them will realise that even their own personal satisfaction will
ultimately be better assured if they will perform-as a few, and a few
only, of Home's sitters performed it-that duty to our fellow-men
which lies for each of us in the painstaking record and the candid
publication of any knowledge which may have chanced to come to us
earlier than to others, but which may perhaps be of deep concern to all
mankind.
APPENDIX A.
W. F. BARRETT.
F. W. H. MYERS.
Weare still anxious to collect unpublished testimony either for or
against the genuineness ofHome's phenomena. In a series ofAppendices
we give such additional evidence as we have as yet obtained. From
inquiry, both among conjurers and among other shrewd persons who
disbelieve in Home's powers, we find two points frequently urged. (I)
The partisan source (Madame Home's book) from which the principal
testimonies are drawn, with the possibility that the letters cited are not
bona fide. (2) The unfavourable presumptions drawn from the case of
LyO'll. v. Hume, which it is urged that Madame Home has recounted iu an
IlX parle manner. As to (1), Madame Home, as above stated, has
Digitized by Google
July,1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 117
allowed Mr. Myers to examine the MS. letters cited, and an imperfect
list of these, taken down during the inspection, is here subjoined.
Names of correspondents whose letters were inspected by F. W. H. M.
Mrs. Alexander, Messrs. Armstrong, Ashburner, W. H. Ashurst,
Elizabeth Duchess of St. Albans, Madame de Balzac, Comte Bobinsky,
Marquis de Belmont, Messrs. John Bright, Blumenthal, Bellew, Berto-
lacci, Mrs. de Burgh, Messrs. Bulkeley, Bordiska, Bronnell, Beales, Burr,
(a picture from daguerrotype showing hand, see p. 33), Brookes, Lady
Burton, Mr. Increase Carpenter, Hon. Mrs. Cowper-Temple, Serjeant
Cox, Messrs. R. Chambers, S. C. Clemens, J. W. Carrington, Bishop
J. M. Clark, Emma Cheney, Messrs. Ward Cheney, Crookes, A. M. de
Cardonne, Princesse de Mingrelie, Elizabeth Lady Dunsany, Lord
Dufferin, Mrs. Ely, Mr. Edgeworth, Dr. Elliotson, Lady K. Fleming.
Messrs. C. T. Fuller, Fenzi, Mme. Grisi, Messrs. Gugert, Gully, Lady
Gomm, Dr. Hawksley, Mrs. Hall, Messrs. Hinard, Hull, Heaphy,
Heward, Lord Howden, Messrs. Hoefer, Hope, Duchess of Hamilton,
Mr. Seymour Kirkup, Comte de Komar, Miss Lockhart, Lavigerie.
Madame Lamuniere, Lord Lytton (the first), Baron Meyendoff, Prince
Marat, Mr. Matthews, Sophie, Queen of the Netherlands, Messrs.
B. Nixon, William Noble, Nubar Pasha, Countess Orsini, Mr. Dale
Owen, Pius IX., Mr. Powers, Countess Panigai, Comte de Villa Franca,
(Duke of Parma), Baron de Pontalba, Duchesse de Tascher la Pagine,
Pere de Ravignan, Mr. Rymer, Lord Odo Russell, Mrs. Scott Russell,
Mr. Ruskin, Count Schouvaloff, Count Steinbeck Fermor, Duchess of
Sutherland, Mrs. Sinclair, George Prince of Solms, Lady Shelley, Mrs.
Senior, Messrs. Sauer, Tiedemann (Martbeze), Monsignor Talbot,
Alexis Tolstoy, Miss Hope Vere, Miss Whitman, Helen Webster,
Prince Wrede, Mr. Wason, Captain C. Wynne.
APPENDIX B.
Our colleague, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, author of Principles of Equity
has kindly furnished us with the following review of the case of Lyon
v. Home. Mr W. M. Wilkinson was good enough to lend us most of
the printed depositions.
1, New-square, Lincoln's Inn.
October 19th, 1888.
I have looked carefully into the case of L.yon v. Horne as reported in the
Law Reports (6 Equity, 655), keeping in view the questions to which you
direct my attention, and perhaps the following comments may be useful
to you.
1. It is certainly the fact that the judge discredited the evidence of
Mrs. Lyon. He said, "Reliance cannot be placed 011 her testimony. . •
it would be unjust to found on it a decree against any man, save in so far as
what she has sworn to may be corroborated by written documents, or
unimpeached witnesses, or incontrovertible facts."
Having, then, eventually decided against Home, it follows that the judge
must have considered that her evidence was corroborated in some or other of
the ways mentioned.
Digitized by GOL
118 Jou1'nal of Society fol' Psychical Resenrch. [July, 1889.
2. It is true that Wilkinson's evidence went to the extent of saying that
the plaintiff always assured him that she was "attached to Home for his own
sake apart from any spiritual pllenomena or communications." There was
also an admitted letter from Mrs. Lyon to Home, in which she stated that
she presented him with the £24,000 "as an entirely free gift." This, she
said, was written by her at Home's dictation under magnetic influence.
3. What t.hen was the corroborative evidence which Jed to the judge's
final opinion?
(1) The evidence of Mrs, Jane Fellowes, who not only testified to the
fact that Mr. Home and Mrs. Lyons had seances together, stating that
during one of them she heard Mrs. Lyon exclaim, "Oh, my darling, let me
look at him!" but she swore that Mrs. Lyon told her a few days after the
seance at which those words were heard, "that her husband's spirit had
communicated with her through the mediumship of Home," and that on
subsequent occasions Mrs. Lyoll "spoke of further communications to the
effect that she was to adopt defendant as her son, and that he was to have
£iOO a year." She goes on in her affidavit: "Plaintiff used frequently to
talk to me about defendant and hill wonderful powers as a spiritual medium,
and her adoption of him, and her transfer of property to him, both under the
direction ofher husband', spirit com1l!lmicated thrOl/lIh defeildant."
(2) }lrs. Key deposed that on the 8th of November she heard defendant,
who was then alone with the plaintiff, say, " Write lchat I tell you," and some·
thing about a will and taking the name and arms of Lyon. "On several
~cca,ioll' when she had been listening witness heard defendant say, 'Let us
consult jelthel',' and thel'e lcould tlten be I'aps, and he l/:Quld repeat the letter,
~f the alphabet very quickly."
(3) Mrs. Tom Fellowes said: "On the 11th November plaintiff was very
open and communicative in telling me in the presence of the defendant of
her disposition of her property, and he (defendant) continually checked her,
saying it was unnecessary to go into particulars. Plaintiff said she wished
me to know exactly what she had done, aB ,he had only obeyed her hlU/band',
commands aB communicated tllroll{}h the mediumBhip of the defendant. He
however, twice denied that he had anything to do with the matter."
(4) Mrs, Pepper's evidence was to much the same purpose-viz., that
plaintiff ascribed her action to the communications from her husband
received through Home.
(5) There were memorandum books in Home's writing containing
accounts of the spiritual experience with the plaintiff, and communications to
her in the form of a dialogue between her and her deceased husband. This
book was full of extravagant expressions of affection on the part of Charles
for his darling Jane; and Home was in those dialogues alluded to as "our
beloved son."
(6) Now it must, I think, be admitted that considering the extraordinary
character of Mrs. Lyon's conduct, and the swiftness with which she reached
her decision to transfer her property to Home, such evidence as the above
may reasonably be deemed corroborative of her assertion that she was
induced to act as she did by the effects of Home's Spiritualistic pretensions.
Technically, indeed, some of the statements above quoted were not ~
Digitized by Google
.July, 1889.] JO'U1'nal Of Society for Psychical Research. 119
.against Home, the admissions of Mrs. Lyon not having been all made in his
presence; but there was sufficient in the remainder and especially in the
memorandum book, in my opinion, to establish the plaintiff's case. It is not
then true that "Home was made to restore the money, because, being a
professed medium, it was likely that he should have induced her» in the way
she alleged. The court held the law to be that such transactions as those in
question cannot be upheld, "unless the Court is quite satisfied that they are
acts of pure volition uninfluenced." The burden of proof of sustaining what
is prima facie utterly unreasonable is 011 those who seek to benefit thereby.
This proof of the voluntariness of Mrs. Lyon's gifts was certainly not forth-
coming. Apart from her evidence, there was evidence of considerable weight
that as a matter of fact (not as a mere matter of inference from the fact of
his mediumship) Home did work on the mind of Mrs. Lyon by means of
Spiritualistic devices, and further that he did so by suggesting communications
from her deceased husband. Whether this is to Home's discredit or not of
course will be decided according to one's belief in Spiritualism and the
reality of her husband's interference. Such is my opinion of the case; any
further particulars of which I shall be happy to supply.-Yours faithfully,
H. ARTHUR SMITH.
On this letter Mr. W. 1\1. Wilkinson comments as follows :-
44, Lincoln's Inn-fields, London, W. C.
7th May,1889.
I have read Mr. Smith's comments on the case of Lyon v. Home, and of
the judge's summing up and decision. I have compared the comments with
the report in the Equity cases, Vol. 6.
Mr. Smith appears to me to have made a fair synopsis of the report and
to have bronght out the reasoning 011 which the judge decided the case.
I have no data by which I could impeach the testimony of the plaintiff's
principal witnesses, of the truth of whose statements the judge was satisfied
It was on the face of that evidence that the judge decided that the defendant
had not proved to his satisfaction that the case was free from defendant's
influence.
011 the other side was a body of evidence that the plaintiff throughout
declared that she made the gifts without any such influence, but though
these witnesses stated truly what she said, the judge disbelieved her
statements to the witnesses.-Yours faithfully,
W. M. WILKINSON.
APPENDIX C.
A well-known amateur conjurer and writer on Natural Magic, a
member of our Committee on Physical Phenomena, writes as follows:-
February 13th,1889.
I have l"eIId and considered Home's Life from the conjurer's point of
view, but find it extremely difficult to give any safe opinion upon it.
Assuming the general good faith of the witnesses, I should still make very
large deductions for mal-observation and looseness of description. Many of
the facts assertedare not, as described,explainable by any conjuringexpedients
Digitized by Google
120 Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [July, 1889.
within my knowledge, but this is by no means conclusive; experience
teaching that, upon any question of the marvellous, ordinary observers are
absolutelyuntrustworthyas witnesses. I have frequently had minute accounts
of admitted conjuring tricks which, aI deacribed, I could not explain; though,
when I have subsequently seen the thing done, the solution has been
perfectly clear. People describing magical illusions tell you not what ~Oal
done, but what they thinlc Wal done, which is often a totally different matter.
Referring to a remark of Mr. Myers, anent the "accordion" manifesta-
tion it seems to me clear that, in some, at any rate, of the instances given,
Home did not use an accordion of his own, but this would not nece88&rily
exclude trick. One of Dr. Monck's stock feats was to place a musical-box on
the table, and cover it with a cigar box, after which it played or stopped
playing at command. Suggested explanation, "Spirits." Real explanation,
that the box in question did nothing at all, the sound being produced by a
second box strapped to Monck's leg above the knee (inside the trouser), and
set in motion by pressure against the uuder surface of the table. It is
poB8ible that the accordion-playing might in Home's case have been produced
by some similar expedient. To a~sert that it waa so produced, in the absence
of fuller information, would be childish, and the same difficulty meets one
throughout the book.
The item to which I attach most importance is Mr. Crookes' experiment
of the board and spring-balance. Had the apparatus been devised and
constructed by Home himself the experiment would have had very little
value, but as described (and putting aside the hypotheses of untruthfulness
or hallucination on the part of Mr. Crookes), it seems to me to be distinctly
outside the range of trick, and, therefore, to be good evidence, so far as
we can trust personal testimony at all, of Home's possession of some special
power of producing motion, without contact, in inanimate objects. This
does not, of conrse, involve the admission of the Spiritualistic hypothesis.
Possibly a series of sufficiently delicate tests would show that the operative
force (whatever it may be) is common to all persoll!!' in a greater or less
degree. ANGELO LEWIS (" Professor Hoffmann.")
APPENDIX D.
The following is the statement referred to on p. 102. The writer is
known to us as a gentleman of character and position, and his reason for
anonymity is the wish to avoid giving pain to the friends who
introduced him to Home, and with whom he did not discuss the matter
at the time. The account represents a recollection 34 years old.
I made the acquaintance of the late D. D. Horne in 1855. I was then
staying in the neighbourhood of the house in which he was for the time
domesticated, and I was invited to an evening seance. There was the
usual table-moving and rapping out of answers to questions-failures in
the case of myself and of the lady then engaged to me and now my
wife, who ,vas of the party. Anxio!l8 desire haying been expressed by
several to see the "spirit hands," we were told that it was yet too
light, and were, after it was as dark as it ever is on a moonlight night-
Digitized by Google
July,1889.] Jou?'nal of Society for Psychical Research. . 121
in July, told that we must wait until the moon had set. This having
-QCcurred-at about 11 p.m.-I think we were not long before a "spirit
hand" appeared. We were assembled-about 14 in number-about a round
table, occupying the whole circumference of it except a space on the part of
it Ilearest the window, which went down to the floor, or nearly so. Home
sat at one end of the horse-shoe formed by the company, in a low easy chair.
By-and-bye, in the open space between him and the other end of the
horse-shoe, a tiny hand-considerably smaller than that of any adult person
~ould be seen outlined against the faint light of the window, the object
rising from the edge of the table, and descending and rising again, and so
011 several times. It appeared to me that it showed itself mainly at two
different points-one about corresponding to the length of Home's arm, the
other more distant-about the place of his foot. Some of the company
became much excited, and begged, leaning forward, that they might be
allowed to "kiss the dear hand." In response to these entreaties the object
rose higher and came nearer (still always rising from the edge of the table,
the "arm "-apparently in a loose baggy sleeve-rising with it, never
suspended in the air), and I thought I could see slight movements in the
shoulder or upper part of Home's arm corresponding with the rr.ovements,
on these occasions, of the "spirit hand." The outline of the upper part of
Home's arm seemed, as the "spirit hand" advanced to meet the persons
far from the window, and who were leaning towards it, to approach nearer
to the" arm," or whatever it was that supported the "spirit hand"; the
movements of both plainly corresponded, and at length the whole edge of
the table between the two objects, as outlined against the light, disappeared,
and I saw continuous connection in the upper outline of Home's arm and
the thing, whatever it was, that supported the" spirit hand." The situation
at this point struck me so forcibly-the trick so plain to my eyes and the
reverential and adoring expressions of t.he company-among whom I think,
there were only three, induding my wife and myself, who were not firm
believers, that I was seized with a strong impulse to laugh. I restrairied
myself from making any sound, but I felt my shoulders shake: we were
wedged closely together, I being next to a lady who must have felt the
movement, and clearly did so, for she immediately said that she thought
they had enough now; and it was suggested that lights had better be brought
in, which was done.
.At a later period of the evening the same lady asked me what I thought of
it, and I told her that it was remarkable, which she evidently understood,
for no more was said. I have no doubt she was a firm believer herself.
These are the simple facts, which I am ready to confirm personally if the
necessity should arise; but the affair is associated with persons and events
in a way that would make it more than undesirable that it should be a
subject of public discussion, and therefore I omit names, and for the same
reason do not desire my name to appear. I give the facts simply for the
personal information of your two friends who, by the kind of investigation
they are making into this matter, may fairly claim, I think, to be t4us
:assisted.
27th.•January, 1889.
Digitized by GOL
122 • Jou1'nal of Society for PBYchical Resea?·ch. [July. 1889_
P.S.-I may add that several of those friends who were present at this
and similar "manifestations" about the same time, though believing that
Home had some power over what they called the spirit-world, and, I think,.
so believing still, have owned to me since that they thought he did on
occasion resort to trickery.
APPENDIX E.
44, Lincoln's Inn Fields, London, w.e.
February 7tA, 1889.
As you ask me to write to you of what occurred at our house in K.ilburn~
where we were living ill 1869, with referellce to the halldling of red-hot coal,
I will merely say that one Sunday evening, in the winter of that year, I saw
Mr. Home take out of our drawing-room fire a red-hot coal a little leas in
size thall a cricket ball, and calTY it up and down the drawing-room. He
said to Lord Adare, now Lord Dnnraven, who was present, "Will you take
it from me 1 It will not hurt you." Lord Adare took it from him, and
held it in hiB hand for about half a minute, and before he threw it back in
the fire I put my hand pretty close to it, and felt the heat to be like that of&
live coal.-Yours very truly, W. M. 'WILKINSON.
APPENDIX F.
Dr. Hawksley, of Beomands, Chertsey, Surrey, sends us the
following addition to his printed evidence. Some of the following
paragraphs were taken down by Mr. Myers from an interview, but all
bas been revised by Dr. Hawksley.
October 23M, 1888.
I have a few points to add to my evidence given in Madame Home's book.
pp. 186-9.
1. On the occasion (p. 188) when I took Mr. Home to dine with
Lord--, we sat in a large salooll. Raps were at once heard travelling all
round the cornice of this large room. Lord--, who sat at the opposite
side of the table from Home, deposed that a hand grasped his beneath the
table. Bome could not have reached 80 far. It was a large table, and quite
impracticable for Home to reach the noble Lord by hand or foot.
2. On one occasion I received in my o"n house a telegram announcing
the sudden death of an old friend at a distance, Mrs. Slingaby Shafto. I
did not mention this to anyone, and went out. Happening to paas Cox's
Hotel I looked in on the Homes, and found them with some friends en Mance.
They askl'd me to come in, which I did, but I did not put my hAnds on the
table. Rape came, announcing a friend for me, and the name Slingsby
Shafto was spelt out. Meaaagea followed, but nothing which my own mind
might not h.ve supplied. I cannot say that I ever heard meaaages given
which contained infolmation certainly unknown to all the sitters j and my
own theory is that Home's OWIl spirit, or some spirit po88t'asing Home, was
able to acquire the knowledge in the minds of persoua present, and to
reproduce it, with physical movements superadded. Personally, I believe
that any communications received by me were such &8 could be indited or
given by an agellcy which could read my own UIluttered thoughts or feelings.
Digitized by Google
July. 1889.] Journal of Society /01' P8ychical Research. 123
3. As regards the way in which Home was supported, I knew him
intimately, but had never any reason to think that he received money for
his seances. I believe that Mr. COll, the hotel-keeper, used not to send him
in any bill, the Coxes being much attached to him. He appeared to me as if
received and treated like a member of the family at free quarters, but I
never was told the fact. My belief is that Mrs. Home had an income. I
never heard of Mr. Home receiving or taking money.
The physical phenomena, which were often more considerable than any
one man could produce, such as the lifting a heavy centre table with a
12-stone man upon it so that I could sweep my arms freely beneath the
castors of the claws; others highly artistic, such as the playing of musical
instruments, and psychically exhibiting a more than human capacity, as when
it played the airs and songs suggested only by the unuttered wish of a
person present ;-1 say that these facts, seen in the broad light of day, in
rooms, and on occasions when preparation or collusion of any kind was
absolutely impossible, brought me to the belief that in Mr. Home's case there
existed in or about his person an invisible agent, capable of going out of
his person and operating at a cousiderable distance from it. The subject or
host occupying one space, talking, or doing all that is usual and natural to a
healthy man, the invisible agency which accompanied him often performing
on ml18ical instruments at a considerable distance, exhibiting rare ability,
or rapping on fumiture at distant parts of walls or ceilings, or moving about
the furniture.
Dr. Hawksley adds :-
Recalling the superlative and gross degree of the physical manifestations,
which carried the evidence so far above any possibility of doubt, I feel just
as much confidence in the truth and reality of what I saw as I do of my own
existence. THOMAS HAWKSLEY.
APPENDIX G.
Mr. Hawkins Simpson writes as follows to Mr. Hensleigh Wedg-
wood, who has kindly placed the letter at our disposal :-
Corfe Castle, Wareham, Dorset.
July 7th, 1888.
In 1868 I was investigating D. D. Home's phenomena-ou one occasion
in good light and in centre of the room, I tested his elongation and contrac-
tion repeated several timea in rapid succession, Lord Crawford (then Master
of Lindsay) helping me. I placed D. D. Home,-in trance, but talking all the
time,-facing me, his heels on the floor and his toes on my insteps, and a large
ml18ic book stretched over our two heads. Whilst I observed his face Lord
Crawford carefully handled ml18Cles, &c., of legs, and observed the waistcoat
rise two or three inches above the trousers' tops, and fall again. We then
changed places, and I tested muscles of legs. The changes his face under-
went, first larger, then smaller, then normal size, were extraordinary. First.
his face seemed gradually to be inflated, and enlarged at all point!!; then it
gradually became small in face and features, and deeply wrinkled and
puckered. After this he was levitated, slowly, and swaying from side to side in
air (very unlike Pepper's ghost) on to the sofa, n.o one near him or lIlyself.
Digitized by Google
124 Journal of Society for P8ychical ReBearch. [July, 1889.
011 coming to himself he rushed into the garden and vomited. Whilst these
things took place he spoke as if he Were 8Omeone else or Be1Jeral Blwwing off
IJaniel, thus; "We will now get Daniel to. . . . &c."
J. HAWKINS SIMPSON.
APPENDIX H.
In 1870 Home visited Scotland, and in Edinburgh stayed at the
bouse of a Dr. Doun. Here General, then Colonel, Boldero first met
Home.l On February 4th, 1870, Colonel Boldero attended a seance at
Dr. Doun's house, and took some notes at the time; which I [W.F.B.]
have seen and compared with a full account of the seance that he wrote
to Mrs. Boldero the next day. Mrs. Boldero has kindly given me per-
mission to make the following copy of the original letter from her
husband, which she fortunately had preserved. It agrees with the notes
and also with the account given me by General Boldero from recollec-
tion; he was not aware that this letter was still in existence until
.after he had given me his verbal account.
COpy OF LETTER FROM GENERAL BoLDERO TO HIS WIFE.
We had an excellent seance last night, although some of the manifestations
were, they said, not so good as they had had there before. Now to relate
what took place. I reached the house, a most excellent one, at about 20
minutes to eight, found the host and hostess old people :-he had been an
army doctor and entered the service in 1809, was at the taking of the Cape,
and at Waterloo in the Greys, and is a hale old gentleman of 86. His wife,
an old lady, two nieces, Misses Jamieson, and another lady whose name I did
not catch, I will call her K., Home, and self, and a Mr. Maitland came later.
The young ladies' Christian names were Susan and Elizabeth. We sat round
a rosewood round table (it was heavy and had one leg in the centre with three
feet) in the following order :-Home, then on his left the hostess, next to her·
Elizabeth, then self, then Susan, then the host, then K., so back to Home.
After about 10 minutes the trembling commenced and the table began to
move, much cold air was felt. I forgot to mention that the table was covered
with a ordinary drawing-room table cover, and on it rested apiece of paper
and pencil and an accordion of a large size-raps then commenced; one or two
simple questions were asked and answered. Then Home proposed to try
the accordion, he· held it in his right hand by the bottom, i.e., upside down
under the table, and it began to play chot:ds. By his desire I looked under
the table, and distinctly saw it open and shut as if some one was playing upon
it. It first played an air which no one knew, then" Still so gently" was
lIn the LveofHome, p. 316, Dr. Doun is referred to as awell-knownmedicalman,
a relation of Sir James Simpson, and at first an entire sceptic on the subject of
Spiritualism. Some of the incidents that occurred in Dr. Doun's house are related in
a small volume by Mr. P. Alexander, M.A., entitled Spi7'itualiBm, published by
Nimmoin1871,andarequotedinHome'sLife, pp. 317·324. The book isinthelibrary
i>fthe S. P.R. Mr. Alexander himself, I find, died a year or two ago, and Dr. Dounis
also dead. .. He was," writes Mr. Alexander, .. a man of venerable age, but retained
all the powers ofanaturallystrongandthoroughlycultiv&tedintelligence."-W.F.B.
Digitized by Google
July, 1889.] Joornal of Society for P8ychical Re8ea1'ch. 125
asked for and played. Also" Home, sweet Home." Elizabeth then held the
instrument and it played some beautiful chords. Home again took it and
held it out from under the table and music came from it. It then played an
air of Moore's, and ended by a discordant chord. Home said that represented
"earthly music," the table gave three jumps. Accordion then played very
softly and beautifully-" That is heavenly,"-the accordion gave three deep
notes. Five raps were then heard, which signified the desire for the
alphabet. Susan took the pencil. Home repeated the alphabet, and as soon
as he came to the letter required he was stopped by the" spirits" who rapped
three times, sometimes raps under the table, sometimes the table gave three
raps on the floor, and sometimes the accordion played three notes. After a
little I said something about fear to Susan, who had been writing; all of a
sudden she said, "My hand is paralysed, I cannot write." "Give me the
pencil," said I, and directly five thumps took place, meaning alphabet. The
following was then spelt Ollt, I writing it down :-
" Fear not, Susan, trust in God."
"Your father is near."
There was a question about her father, and I said perhaps they mean the
Heavenly Father. Instantly there was a great commotion in the table, and
this was then spelt out, I still writing :-
" He is the Great Father."
Elizabeth's pocket-handkerchief was on her lap; I saw it move, and it
was gently drawn under the table and placed upon the doctor's knees, who
sat opposite to her. Susan's pocket-handkerchief and gloves were also lifted
up and down.
Home's chair was moved about the room, and the screen which was
placed in front of the fire moved at least a yard by itself. The ladies'
dresses were cOl1stantly pulled, and they said, or at least two of them said,
that they saw hands. I myself saw something, but cannot exactly describe
what it was. Home was most visibly effected, but was struggling against it,
as the host and hostess did not want to see him in a trance. Presently he
roused himself, and .id to Susan, K., and myself: "Will you come into the
library, and see wb.'at will happen there 7" The library opened into the
landing, where there was a bright gaslight, but the room itself had no light.
The door was, however, left wide open; we were round a little table, the
rest seated, and I on my knees. In an instant the table began to rock, and a
very weird sound was heard in the corner of the room. An immense shifting
bookcase, that would at least require four men to move, began slowly to come
towards us. This rather frightened Susan, who was very plucky notwith-
standing and she gave a little start. In a few minutes Home went off into
"trance. He got up and walked about a little, and then came to me and
took me by the hand, saying, "Will you look at Dan's feet and see that he
does not move them oft" the ground, and tell the others to look at his head 7"
I watched, and saw his whole body elongated as much as nine inches or a foot.
I went and felt his feet, and found them on the ground. I must tell you he
was standing where the light of the gas on the landing fell UpOIl him. It
was an extraordina.ry sight. He then said, "Come here," so I went back to
him. He was still of prolonged stature. He took both my hands and placed
Digitized by Google
126 Joul'1tal of Society lOT Pllychical Research. [July. 1889•
.
them on each side of his waist above his hips j there was a vacuum between
his waistcoat and trousers. "Feel Dan, that you may be satisfied" j and
surely enough he came back to hisown size, and I could feel the flesh shrink.
He again was elongated, and I could feel his flesh stretch and again shrink.
It was most extraordinary to see him gradually lengthen. He then walked
about a little and went up to his bedroom. I followed and saw him put his
hand into the fire and take out a burning coal. I foolishly perhapscalled the
ladies, not wishing them to lose the sight, but they seemed to have a bad
effect, for ae they were coming up he told them not to come and put back tht'
coal he had been carrying into the grate, and said that something was wanting
on the part of the ladies,-that they were afraid he would be hurt. He then
returned to the library, and began talking. He told sonle curious things that
I will tell you to-morrow, as this is long enough.
Altogether it was most curious, and I so wish that you had been there.
Certainly there was nothing devilish in what took place.
After he was out of the trance, he appeared both fresher and better than
before he went into it. Altogether it was a weird and curious spectacle in
the library.
In the same month, Febnlary, 1870, Mrs. Boldero, together with her
husband, had a sitting with Home at Dr. Doun's house; General
Bulwer (then Colonel) accompanied them. On entering Home was
seen at. the far end of the drawing-room; there was also present Dr•
. and Mrs. Doun, Miss E. Jamieson, and two other ladies, nine in all,
including Home.
The following is Mrs. Boldero's account of this seance :-
We all sat at a table in the drawing.room for an hour, and nothing
happened. Home then said to me [Mrs. Boldero], "This is dull work." I
replied, "I feel the iufluence of a lady present prevents the manifestation."
So to avoid appearing nlde, Home proposed an adjournment to the dining-
room. and on our way thither asked Mrs. Doun if she would mind sitting
out of the circle with the lady in question. This was done, and we seven
now sat at the oblong table in the dining-room in good light. Immediately
noises began, an accordion, held with one hand by Home, played. I felt a
tapping on my foot, and looking down saw a round hassock standing up on
its edge and untouched by anyone tapping my foot. .I clearly saw it l'lBe
and fall several times, then it rolled itself away from me and went to another
of the sittel's. Shortly after, It. valuable bracelet I was wearing unclasped
itself from my wrist, opened and fell to the ground. This was my first
introduction to Home and to Spiritualism.
Subsequently Colonel Boldero invited Home to stay with him at his
house, Belfield, Coupar Fife, N.B., for at that time the Colonel held a
military appointment in the North. Home arrived at Belfield on
Sunday evening, February 28th, 1870. He had never entered the
hOllse before, and he arrived from Aberdeen only just in time to dress
for dinner. Upon re-entering the drawing-room, he was asked at once
to take Mrs. Boldero into dinner; shortly after dinner, they all threo
Digitized by Google
July,I889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 127
retufned to the drawing foom, and agreed to sit at once by a card table
neal' the fire, so that no time was afforded for Home to make any
preparations if he had required such. Mrs. Boldero wrote an account
of what occurred some time afterwards, but before reading this I
obtained General Boldero's independent evidence, and then compared it
with his wife's account. 1 give both accounts, and upon reading Mra.
Boldero's evidence to her husband he agreed that where a diff~rence
existed his wife's account was probably the more correct.
GENERAL BOLDERO'S ACCOl'NT.
It was at the end of Febl'Uary, 1870, Home came to visit me by invitation,
at my house in Cupar Fife. He arrived immediately before dinner, and
after dinner we, Mrs. Holdero, Home, and myself, sat in the drawing-room for
any manifestations that might occur. The room was quite light, the glt8 being
lighted and a bright fire burning. Home sat with his back to the fire, at a
small table with a cloth on,it. I was opposite to him, and Mrs. Boldero was
on his right hand. A piano and Mrs. Boldero's harp were at the end of
the drawing-room some 10 or 12 feet away. Almost immediately some
manifestations occurred; in a little while the table moved towards the piano.
lilaw a hand come out 011 my side from under the table, pushing out the table-.
cloth and striking notes on the piano. Afterwards I saw a whole hand as far
as the wrist appear without the tablecloth and strike the notes, playing some
.chords 011 the piano. At this time Home was some distance IIff, and it was
physically impossible for him to have struck the piano. It was equally
impossible for him to have used his foot fo\' the purpose. I was perfectly
confident at the time and am now that trickery on the part of Home was out
of the question. After that some chords were faintly struck on the harp
standing immediately behind me. We asked for them to play louder, and a
reply came by raps, " We have not power." Then voices were heard speaking(
together in the room, two different persons judging from the illtoulltion. Wt'
.could not make out the words spoken, as Home pereisted in speaking to us
all the time. We remonstrated with him for speaking, and he replied, "I
spoke purposely that you might be convinced the voices were not due to any
venttiloquism on my part, as this is impossible when anyone is speaking in
his natural voice." Home's voice was quite unlike that of the voices I.eard in
the air.
Mas. BOLDERO'S ACCOUNT OF THE SAME SEANCE.
On February 28th, 1870, Home arrived at our house shortly before
dinner. After dinner we agreed to sit in the drawing room at a square card
table near the fire, the following being our positions (see sketch). III a few
minutes, a cold draught of air was felt 011 our hallds and kllockings occurred.
Several messages of no consequence came, questions being asked and
answered. I was exhorted to pray more. A rustling of dresses WRll heard, "
as of a stiff silk dress in the room. [General Boldero recollects th"s also.]
My gold bracelet was unclasped whilst my hands were on the table and fell
llpon the floor. [General Boldero agrees to this.] My dress was pulled
.several times. I think I asked if the piano could be played; it stood
at least 12 ft. or 14 ft. away from us. Almost at once the softest music
Digitized by Google
128 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [July, 1889.
sounded. I went up to the piano and opened it. I then saw the bys
depressed, but no one playing. I stood hy its side and watched it, hearing
the most lovely chords; the keys seenled to be struck by some invisible hands;
1--·
I
I
1-.,u-
1/ TT771
HO:llE.*./. /. / ..*. COL. B.
I I /*1 /
-MRS. H.
SOFA.
PIANO.
all this time Home was far distant from the piano. Then a faint sound was
heard npon my harp, as of the wind blowing over its strings. I asked if it
could be played louder: an answer came there was insufficient power. Later
on in the evening, we distinctly heard two voices talking together in the room
the voices appeared to come from opposite corners, from near the ceiling, and
apparently proceeded from a man and child, but we could not distinguish the
words. They sounded far oft'. Home was talking the whole time the voices
were heard, and gave as his reason that he might not be accused of
ventriloquism. During the whole of this seance, .the whole room seemed to
be alive with something, and I remember thinking that no manifestation
would surprise me, feeling that the power present could produce any-
thing. Home himself remarked that he had rarely had so satisfactory a
seance, attributing it to the fact that the conditions were unusually genial,
being undisturbed by any conflicting elements. Throughout, Home seemed
to be intensely, and very genuinely, interested in the whole seance. I am
perfectly sure that Home could not possibly have played the piano himself;
touching is wholly out of the question. General Boldero saw a hand playing
on the piano, but I did not see this.
At one seance with Home, General BoJdero states he saw a large
round table, on which the hands of the sitters were placed, rise clean
off the ground to a height as great as the upstretched arms of the
sitters would allow, Ilnd then the table came down quite gently,
On another occasion, the table was tilted to such an angle that all
the glasses and a lamp that was on it would ordinarily have fallen off,
yet they remained undisturbed. (See Life of H~, p. 369, &c.)
Another seance General BoJdero clearly remembers. It was
at the. Northern Hotel, Aberdeen. Home was giving some recita-
tions in Aberdeen, and the reporters of the local newspaper
having come to the hotel to see Home,before preparing their report,
Home asked them to stay and have supper. General Boldero, arriving
at the time, joined the party. A loud rap on the sideboard frightened
July. 1889.] Journal of Society fO'1' Psychical Research. 129
the waiters; then raps were heard on the cornice of the ceiling. The
table quivered so violently and the plates rattled and moved so much
that Glmeral Boldero states he was obliged to stop eating. The table
was cleared, and a message came by raps to one of the reporters,
present, purporting to be from a dead brother. The reporter told
General Boldero that it was perfectly correct, and was much
moved. During the seance a large arm-chair near the fire-
place rushed across the room and up to the table, placing itself
near .one of the reporters at SOlDe distance from Home. General
Boldero states that all felt this to be a most remarkable manifesta-
tion, as Home had not been into the coffee-room, where they were at
supper, till they all entered it together, and no thread or trickery of
any kind could have moved lohe chair with the precision and velocity
with which it left its place and abruptly joined them at the table.
APPENDIX I.
The next account, somewhat abridged, is written by a gentleman,
Mr. Edward --, who wishes his name not to be published. It records
what took place at some of Home's seances in London, probably about
the year 1861. The account itself was given in a letter to the writer's
brother, and written immediately after the seances.
MR. EDWARD --'s ACCOUNT OF HIS SEANCES WITH MR. HOliIE.
I have been introduced to Mr. Home: he is a very nice, quiet., unassum-
ing man, and I go to his hOllse sometimes in the evenings. I have had four or
five seances, one of them at Mrs. Parkes' house. I have had my hands taken
and my leg grasped over and over again, and handkerchiefs and bells, &c.,
carried from my hand across the table to other people and back again. I
ha\'e also seen the most touching and consoling 1D6IIsages rapped out to people
from tbeir departed friends, urging them to trust in God and assuring them of
their own felicity, and these coupled with allusions to periods and things known
only to the people themselves alld their spiritual visitors, and which have
made them go away perfectly convinced of the truth of these manifestations.
The seances begin by our sitting round Mr. Home's table, which is rather
large, as it holds 10 people sitting round it. We lay our hand" flat on the
table before us. After a while there is usually a trembling of the table and
often a strong tremulous motion of the floor and our chairs, and loud raps
sound about the room and under the tahle. Then the tahle usually heaves
up with a steady motion, sometimes clear off the floor, sometimes on one side
to an angle of about 45deg. Mr. Home makes a practice of asking anyone
present, llsually the last COlDer, to sit under the table to be enabled to assure
his friends that no trickery was possihle. I have sat so several times and
heard the raps about my head, some loud, some soft, and have seen the table
rise from the floor and have passed my hand liud arm clear through between
the floor and the pedestal of the table wItile it was in the air. It has
happened several times when we have been sitting in this way that some
one of the company has been drawn back in his chair from the table, and once
Digitized by Google
130 Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [July, 1889.
Mrs. Parkes, who wllSsittillg next me, was drawn at least a foot back and
then sideways abont six inches. A bell, bracelet, or pocket handkerchief, or
anything taken in one hand and placed nnder the table is takeJ;l by the
"spirit" hands, which are palpable warm fingel s of various sizes aud feeling,
but which when attempted to be grasped always seem to dillsolve in a curious
manner and leave airy nothing.
* * * * * * *
Mr. Home has an accordion; it is not a mechanical one, for he left it by
accidentat Mrs. Parkes' house one day, and I carefully examinl'd it. He takes
this in one hand by the side of it which is furthest fronl the keys and places
it jqst beneath the edge of the t"ble. In that position I have watched it
attentively as I stooped with my head and shoulders thrust under the table,
and.have seen the bellows begin to rise and fall, and then faint sounds to issue
•which, gaining in strength, at last swell out into the most beautiful spiritual
airs of a strange and fantastic character. On any particular air being called
for it is played, sometimes beautifully, sometimes in a very fitful uneven
manner. On any question being asked during the playing of the air the
sound swells out into three hard distinct strokes to mean " Yes," or one to
mean "No," or two to mean "Perhaps." I have several times sat next
Mr. Home when" the spirits" are playing the accordion, and he always holds
one hand on the table and supports the accordion with the othl'r. Sometimes
"the spirits" remove the instrument from his hand and carry it to some
other person, when the same result is the consequence. I have hever held it
myself, but Mrs. Parkes has, and an air has been played the same as if she
were Mr. Home. I have been present when the accordion was dropped by
the spirits under the table and played by them without anyone bolding it, and
Mrs. Parkes bas seen it play, suspended of itself from the bottom of the table.
All these phenomena wbicb I have been enumerating ha.ve been done 1Wt
in the dark, which some people SHY is necessary in a seance, but in bright
light. I should also say that I have seen them in Mrs. Parkes own house,
where she invited Mr. Home one evening and I was present; it was the first
time he had ever put his foot in her house, and the tilting a.nd rapping and
music was just the same, and the table travelled along the floor, turning and
pushing chairs and stools about, right up to one side and along the side of a
sofa. Mr. Home also stretched up his hands above his h~ad and rose in the
air 3ft. from the floor. Mrs. Parkes was sitting next him, and she looked at
his feet ancl then he descended.
I have separated the following facts because of their extraordinary
nature; they occurrecl in the last seance bnt one, and I must preface them
by relating an adventure which happened to Mr. Home which bears very
much upon what follows. When he was in France he resided for some
time at the ChAteau de Cel'9&Y, about two hours' drive from Paris. There
he llsed occasionally to go t.o the park for the purpose of shooting birds.
There was a particular angle of this park where, as it was very secluded, he
found that he could often g.et a shot by creeping behind a hedge and waiting
his opportunity. Once he found himself near an enormous tree, a northern
poplar, "peuplier dll Nord," 9ft. in circumference at the base, and as he
stooped forward he suddenly heard some voice cry, "Here I here I" Sur-
Digitized by Google
July,1889.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8ea1'ch. 131
prised to find himself addreBl!ed in English he was going to turn when he
found himself seizerl by the collar of his coat and waistcoat and lifted
into the air and dragged away about 6ft. Recovering from the first sur-
prise he saw a mass of leaves and branches where he had just been standing,
and soon saw that an enormous branch had fallen from the tree and that the
end had penetrated a foot into the ground on the spot where he had lately
been, and that he owed his life to the miraculous interference of the spirits.
The bough still rested against the tree. The same evening during a seance
it was rapped out, "Go to the bough." He proceeded there with most of
the party, and going to the end of the branch he said, "I wonder if the
spirits would move it." He placed his finger at the end and felt three touches
of a spirit hand, and at the third touch the enormous branch fell! The
people of the vicinity rt'ligiously preserve twigs of this miraculous tree, which
has a.ttracted immense attention, and Mr. Home, after his arrival in England,
sent for a piece of this bough, and his request being complied with,'
his drawing-room is decorated with an enormous rough piece of this bough
standing on end in the window about 4ft. high and a yard in circumfel'ence,
and so heavy (it is remarkably hard wood) that it takes two men to lift it.
ReVe7!O'M Ii no, mouton8.
On the evening in question we had been laughing and joking with Mr.
Home about a number of Once a Week, contaiuing diagrams, &c., supposed
to explain how spirit-rapping "was done," and certainly if they were right in
their elucidation it would be a shocking, clumsy piece of business, but we
who had been familiar with the thing could see at once the fallacy of their con-
jectures; we sat round the table and the spirit-rapping explanation was
thrown aside on a chair. Presently we heard a rush and saw t,his paper
whisked oft' the chair and dropped under the table, where we soon heard it
crumpled and torn into a thoulI&nd bits, and morsels flung round the room and
on to the table. Five raps having sounded the words were spelt out. " A
little leBl! earthly light." I put down the gas. (This is the only occasion iu
DIy presence of darkness being a requisite.) The fire was burning with a
bright flame, 80 we thought we might witness some extraordinary nllUlifesta-
tions were the lights tmned completely out, 80 we did so. I forgot to say
th~t before we touched the light a chair advanced to the table from one side
of the room, and that most of those present witnessed a spirit haud playing
about it, but I did not, though I have often seen them under a pocket-
handkerchief or under the edge of the tablecloth or in my lap. When we
put out the light the table began to turn quickly and to travel to the side of
the room up to the branch; when distant 2ft. it stopped, and the shutters
opening of themselves, we ascertained distinctly our po~ition, which before we
had known but'by the firelight. Mr. Home then said he felt a human hand
lying on his lap, and many of Uil began to feel the hands; presently one
appeared over the edge of the table, black and shadowy; this we all saw.
Someone wished we could keep small twigs of the miraculous log, when we
heard a wrenching (the wood is tough like wire), and a piece was laid in his
hand, and all of us holding out our palms received each a pi~ce. I felt the
fingers distinctly as I stretched out mine above the table on a line with Illy
chest, but could not see the fingers. The branch then beglln to oscillate and
Digitized by Google
132 Journal of Society for P8ychical R,e,sea1·clt. [July, 1889.
ad,,·ance towards the table, and then the branch lifting itSelf in the air was
laid of its own accord Hat on the table, where it rolled once or twice, and then
the table rising about a foot in the air supported itself and the branch. I gave
a glance at the pedestal; there was light enough to see, but nothing was there!
Mr. Home now rose up and moving slowly along the room began to ascend
near the wall, rising gently with his hands above his head; when he was near
the ceiling he Hoated diagonally across the roonl, passed the chandelier and
dropped on his feet close to the table. He spoke several times when in his
tlight, which was made perpendicularly. The furniture in the room was
moving frequently during the seance, and when we lit the gas it was in an
extraordinary condition-the heavy sofa turned with its face to thewall, chairs
in every possible position, everything higgledy-piggledy. I assisted in
replacing them, which proves it is not hallucination. The spiritsdeserted us,
for we had no other manifestation, and we founel replacing the log a heavy
job.
I should tell you that at one of the seances the alphabet having been
called for, the word "Frank" was rapped out. I was surprised, because I
did not expect anything of the kind; but I instantly felt a hand touch me,
and the words, "I am very happy; I wish papa would believe," were
made out, for I was stroogly touched at the requisite letters. I think
I forgot to say that Mr. Home always finishes the seance by going into
a mesmeric trance, and in that state tells the most astonishing and
astounding thiogs to the people present, sometimes bringing out incidents
in people's private history quite as extraordinary as the spiritual manifesta-
tions, and which do not leave the slightest doubt of his being a seer.
Mrs. Parkes has experienced this, and related a wonderful thing he told
about her family, and which was perfectly convincing.
Of course, Mr. Home receives no fees for these seauces, and they are not
in any way public.-Ever your affectionate brother, E. T. P.
APPENDIX J.
The next account is from an officer in the Royal Engineers, who
does not wish his name published :-
A uguat 5th, 1888.
If I were to give you merely a brief outline of the various experit'nces I
have had in connection with so-called Spiritualism, I should require some
hundred pages of foolscap, because some 30 years ago, when the subject
was first brought to my notice, I was determined to thrash the matter out,
and took every opportunity for close investigation. I had, therefore, more
than 50 sittings with Home, certainly 100 with Mrs. Marshall, a dozen
or more with Foster, half a dozen with Squire, some 20 or more with
Katie Fox (Mrs. Jencken), a dozen at least with Mi88 Hardinge, and
more than one hundred with a lady who never, except to friends, exhibited
her powers. This lady stayed in my house more than once for over a mouth,
and every chance of trickery was eliminated. Besides, the facts were beyoud
the power of trickery, to say nothing of there being no object in practising
tricks. When I divide my experiences I should be disposed to place the
results under two heads, viz.: (a) physical, (b) mental
Digitized by Google
July,1889.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. 133
Under (a) I have seen chairs, tables, boxes, &c., &c., suddt'oly rise in
the air, or move from distant parts of the room to positions close beside me.
I have heard a locked piallo ill my room playa piece of music. I have seen
in Home's presence, at the late Sir W. Gomm's, an accordion carried rouud
the room playing a tune when no visible hand held it. I held Home's hand,
between the fingers of which he held a pencil, when the pencil flew from his
fingel'S and struck a wall 65ft. from him with tlUch force that the end of the
pencil was spread out like this
This occurred at Mr. Nassau Senior's.
At my brother-in-Iaw's, the lat.e Sir S. E., I saw in the presence of the
late Robert Stepht'nsoll a dining table, at which 12 people had been
dining, rise fully 2ft. from the flOOl', at the request of Robert Stephen-
son, the medium being the young lady to whom I have referred. When
alone in my own dining-room, lone night saw a round table about 2ft.
in diameter, at which I had been sitting with the young lady, glide along the
floor and come close to my side, the distance it had moved being more
than 12ft. These are some among many of the physical facts.
In a subsequent letter the same correspondent writes :-
In a brief letter it is of course impossible to deal with all those minor
details which cause one to be cOllvinced that any imposition or delusion
was impossible, but when I state that I had over 100 seances mostly in my
own house before I found it impossible to retain my former opinion of
materialism, you can imagine I did not come to a hasty conclusion. At
present I have decided [for private reasons] to have nothing published
under my name in conuection with these phenomena.
APPENDIX K.
The next account is from the Rev. H. Douglas, rector of Edmond-
thorpe, Rutlandshire. Our colleague, Mr. Barkworth, to whom this
account was sent, writes :-" Mr. Douglas is a man of acute and
scholarly intelligence, and of wide and varied acquaintance with the
wurld and society. I mention this to enable you the better to form a
judgment on his testimony."
EdlUondthorpe RectOl'y, Wymondham, Oakham,
April 11th, 1889.
DEAR MR. BARKWORTH,-Tbe incident I related to you, to which you
refer, happened some 25 years ago, or perhaps 26 or 27. It took place at
the home of Lady Poulett, in some square out of Regent-street. I cannot
recollect where, but Lady Mount-Temple and the late Lord Mount-Temple
were there also. Mr. Home was there. We all saw the supper-table, on
which there was a quantity of glass and chioa full of good things, rise, I
should say, to an angle of 45deg. without anything slipping in the least,
and then relapse to its normal position. There was also a so-called centre-
Digitized by Google
134 Journal of Society for PBychic(tl Research. [July, 1889.
table ill the room, round which we were seated-it had nothing upon it--
and as we joined hands it moved and we followed it. There was Baron
Reichenbach, the discoverer of paraffin, present, who laughed at us, and
challenged us to move the table if we would let him get under it and hold
it. He was a. rather tall and powerfully-built mall, and he got under the
table and clasped it with both his arms, but it moved as before, dragging
him all round the room. Another thing happened which I callnot forget.
A friend of mine, also present, doubted the evidence of hell. The" spirits"
rapped out, "Put a Bible under the table!" and when we had done so, we
all heard a distinct, rapid, sharp turning over of the leaves, alld it was
rapped out again, "Let Mr. Douglas take up the Bible. No one else!"
011 taking it up we found the leaves turned down at Psalm ix., exactly at
verse 17, "The wicked shall be turned into hell," &c. Collusion was, it
seemed to us all, impossible.
I went to this seance, and to others, because I felt it a duty to examine
what seemed to me a supernatural phenomenon. But I have been told so
many utter falsehoods [not, however, by Home, as Mr. Douglas explains in
a later letter] that I am persuaded of its Satanic origin, ~f it is supernatural.
I have no objection to my name being used, if it is of any good, only I
I!hould like it to be understood what I believe about it.-I remain, yours
very sincerely, H. DOUGLAS.
In a subsequent letter Mr. Douglas writes :-
April 22nd, 1889.
I have not kept my note of the occurrence in quetltion. as I dismissed the
subject from my mind as useless; and what I wrote to you il! simply what I
remember. But Illy memory has been very good, aUtI the circumstances
were too remarkable to be forgotten. I cannot recall the date with anything
like precision, but think it must have been about 1862-4. I believe there
was no cloth 011 the table, but the Bible was not in view. It was the celltre-
table under which the Bible was placed, not the tlupper table. It must have
been, I should say, some 7ft. or 8ft. in diameter, and was massive and
heavy. This was the table which moved and dragged Baron Reichenbach
round the room. .
We were perhaps 10 or 12 persons whOl!e hands were on the table, and I
think Mr. Home was one of us. He was not in a trance, but ill a perfectly
normal condition. H. DOUGLAS.
APPENDIX L.
We subjoin a few references to some of the more striking
phenomena recorded by Madame Home in this Life:-
1. "Spirit-hands." As a fraudulent origin has been suggested for
this phenomenon in Appendix D, we cite a few cases where application
is more difficult.
One of the phenomena frequently recorded is the melting or
dissolution of hands while firmly grasped, or under immediate observa-
tion. Thus (pp. 32-34), Mr. Burr reports that, "in the full light of
the lamp," a hand, not visibly attached to any arm, shakes hands with
him, then tries to withdraw itself. "Then it pulled to get away, with
a good deal of strength. When the hand found it could not get away
Digitized by Google
July. 1889.] JO'/J/rnal Of Society for pljychical Research. 135
it yielded itself up to me for my examination, turned itself over and
back, shut up its fingers and opened them. It ended at the wrist."
Mr. Burr pushed his finger through it; the place closed up, leaving a
scar; the hand then vanished.
Mr. Robert Bell (p. 54), writer of the article in the Oornhill
Magazine, which made much noise at the time, says of a large hand:
" I seized it, felt it very sensibly, but it went out like air in my grasp."
Dr. Carter Wilkinson (p. 57) says of a soft, warm, fleshy, substantial
hand. "I had no sooner grasped it momentarily than it melted away."
Mr. Powers, the sculptor (p. 61), says of a "little hand": "I took
hold of it; it was warm, and evidently a child's hand. I did not
loosen my hold, but it seemed to melt out of my clutch."
"Hands laid themselves in my hands," says Count Tolstoy (p. 162),
"and when I sought to retain one it dissolved in my grasp."
Dr. Hawksley (p. 187) describes a seance at Mrs. Milner Gibson's:
" It was a summer's evening, about eight o'clock; and I sat near to a
large window, against which stood a table, and on the table an
ordinary large bell. Sitting very near to the bell, I distinctly saw a
well-shaped hand appear on the table, and after resting there a ShOl·t
time the hand rose, grasped the bell, and carried it away, we knew not
where. While the hand rested on the table, I rose from my seat, went
to the table, and without touching the hand examined it by careful
inspection. It looked like a grey, gauzy substance, exactly the form of
a human hand, and it terminated at the wrist."
2. Objects brought from a distance. Life, pp. 165, 182, 187.
3. Rising of table, &c., in the air. Life, pp. 167, 188, 217.
4. Levitation of Home. Life, pp. 168,298-307.
5. Modifications of heat. Life, pp. 281-6, 289.
6. Apparitions seen in Home's presence. Life, pp. 288, 291.
7. Phenomena originating in Home's presence persist in his absence.
Lift, p. 384. Incidents, Part 11., pp. 146, 185.
APPENDIX M.
Mrs. Honywood, of 52, Warwick-square, who was well acquainted
with Home for 25 years, and attended many seances and took notes of
most of them at the time, has been kind enough to give to one of us
rF.W.H.M.] the following particulars orally, in further explanation of
her testimony printed in the Life, and in answer to questions :-
Throughout the many years during which I knew Mr. Home, most of my
friends were complete disbelievers in Spiritualism, and would frequently
repeat to me rumours to his discredit; but I never once heard any first-hand
account of any kind of trickery 011 his part. So far as my own experience
went, I found him always anxious to give the fullest opportunities of investi-
gation. He was a man of open, childlike nature, and, so fnr as I ever
saw, thoroughly honest and truthful. His utterances in the trance state
were much superior in thought and diction to his ordinary talk.
As regards communications showing the identity of @pirits, I believe that
very many of these were never mentioned by the persons receiving them. I
have often seen Home entranced whispering to persons present, who after-
wards said that they had received messages proving identity. Often, too, he
Digitized by Google
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July. 1889.
would imitate the gestures of persons whom he could· not have seen, which
gestures were recognised as characteristic.
I myself received few proofs of identity. I may mention one, which,
though not very striking to others, was convincing to myself. I knew Mr.
Colley Grattan, and had once or twice talked with him about a Mrs. X., of
whom he thought highly, but whom I distrusted and did not wish to know.
One day, however, I met him in the park, walking with Mrs. X. and
another lady, and he introduced me to Mrs.:x. I said a few ordinary words,
and the incident was over; and I think it most improbable that Mr. Home,
who did not know Mrs. X., could have known anything of the matter.
Shortly afterwards Mr. Grattan died; and at a sliance soon after that date
the name Grattan was given with a message for me, " You were right and I
was wrong." I ask him "Where did we last meet 7" "In the park," was
the reply.
In quoting my account of the fire phenomena, Mr. Veitch (Madame
Home's secretary) has slightly abbreviated my words in a way which makes
the occurrences seem rather less wonderful than they actnally were. I should
like to give a few additional details:-
1. As to the burning coal placed in my hand. I saw Mr. Home take this
coal from the fire, moving his hands freely among the coals. It was about
the size of a coffee cup, blazing at the top, and red-hot at the bottom.
While I held it in my hand the actual flame died out, but it continued to
crackle and be partially red-hot. I felt it like an ordinary stone, neithel'
hot nor cold. Mr. Home then pushed it off my hand with one finger on to
a double sheet of cartridge paper, which it at once set on fire.
I am quite certain that I was in my usnal condition at the time. I have
myself often mesmerised other people, and believe that I could have
mesmerised Mr. Home easily, but that he could not have done the same to
me. I never saw anyone at his sliances in an odd or entranced condition.
We used to talk to each other and discuss what went on. I have sometimes
seen Home make passes over someone with the object of relieving pain, and
have heard the person say that the pain was thus dispersed.
2. As to the hot lamp-chimney which I touched. There was a row of
four or five persons sitting side by side, and Mr. Home asked us each in
turn to touch the glass. When I touched it, I felt as though a wave of
heat were receding before me. Mr. Home did 1I0t turn entirely away before
offering the glass to Captain Smith; he merely turned his head, as though
speaking with some unseen person, but remained standing in front of us all
the time.
I have repeatedly taken Mr. Home in my own carriage to the houses of
friends of mine who were strangers to him, and have there seen the furniture
at once violently moved in rooms which I knew that he had never entered
till that moment.
I have seen heavy furniture moved; for instance, a heavy sofa in my
own drawing-room, with myself upon it, and a heavy centre table moved
several feet away from Home, and then back again in the light, while his
hands and feet were visible. Not horsehairs, but ropes would often have
been necessary to pull the furniture about as I have seen it pulled.
BARBARA HONYWOOD, June, 1889.
Digitized by Google
