{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v10_n5_may_2014.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V10 N5 May 2014","mylang":"de"}
138
F
Amalgamation of Societies
—~§~—
—~§~—
139 – Healing the Soul – Book Review – Jim Pym
142 – The Accordion Playing of D. D. Home – Herbert Thurston, S. J.
156 – Update on the PHCP conference
157 – Spiritualist Ambulances in the Great War – note L.P
158 – An “Apport” Medium, Mr. T. Lynn – Psychic Science
166 – Article Photographs
171 – Some books we have reviewed
172 – How to obtain this journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 10, No. 05: May 2014
139
Healing the Soul; the lives of Samuel
Hahnemann and William Lilley
by David Lilley.1
This is a very difficult book to review. It is
absorbingly written, and contains so many facts
and insights that it is hard to know where to
start. So I will begin at the beginning.
It is really two books, the first of which is
primarily of interest to students and
practitioners of homoeopathy and other forms
of complementary medicine. This book, which
takes up almost exactly half of the printed
work, features the life, teachings and
discoveries of Samuel Hahnemann, who is
considered to be the founder of homoeopathy. It
makes fascinating reading, but can be difficult
at times for the non-specialist. Although the
author makes it clear that Hahnemann was
inspired, with definite spiritual links with
forerunners such as Paracelsus and Galen, there
is little or no psychic content in this half of the
book. (an interesting sideline that might be
recorded is that Galen was purported to be the
healing guide of M H Tester, healer and author
of a number of books on spiritual healing and a
regular contributor to Two Worlds magazine).
This section also provides a well-reasoned argument in defence of homoeopathy and other
forms of energy medicine, which certain militant atheists and materialists seem determined to
discredit. As their target seems to be anything that they cannot pin down in their laboratories,
this can include Spiritualism, parapsychology and psychic research. In analysing the role of
subtle energy in the therapeutic process, we are given a well-reasoned consideration of the
whole subject, and this also prepares us for what follows in the second half.
This is a different story. It features the life of the author’s father, the medium and healer
William Lilley, and the work and teaching of his spirit inspirer, known as Dr Letari. Their
work together featured many forms of mediumship, spiritual healing, and even psychic
operations, but it also included the training of the medium in many branches of medical and
herbal practice, which led to our author’s medical degrees and pioneering work in
homoeopathy. It is an amazing story of co-operation between two worlds.
1
.‒Published by Saltire Books, 18 – 20 Main Street, Busby, Glasgow G76 8DU www.saltirebooks.com Price
£45.00, hardback, 574pp. Special price, direct sales only, £39.99. ISBN 978-1-90812-705-1.
140
William Lilley was born in 1914, and was psychic from an early age. His mother, Sarah Ellen
Lilley (known as Sally) was a gifted medium in her own right. The story opens with an
account of the séance where the ten-year-old William first manifested the gift of trance
mediumship, and goes on to tell of his development at home with his mother, all carefully
supervised by William’s guides. By the time he was sixteen, he had experienced many forms
of psychic phenomena, and had developed the ability to slip seamlessly into the trance state.
His principle healing guide, Lejan Tari Singh, was a Hindu Brahmin medical doctor who had
been trained in both Calcutta and London. In addition, there were a team of spirit helpers,
chief among which were White Hawk, William’s doorkeeper, and the Ramesoye, an ancient
Egyptian, who came from a higher sphere, and was in overall charge of the whole project.
There was also a team of spirit doctors, each of whom contributed specialist skills in the
healing work and the training of the new medium. William was trained by them in diagnostic
skills, and in the preparation and use of herbs.
The talents of this young healer began to be more and more manifest, and his reputation grew
as he achieved mention in the local, national and psychic press. He attracted the attention of a
local businessman, who soon proved his genuineness, and went on to provide a space for the
first healing sanctuary dedicated to this work.
Soon afterwards, Dr Letari commenced teaching his young “mediator” the science of
homoeopathy, “which he regarded as the most vital of all the disciplines essential and central
to healing the sick”. He built this teaching on the foundation of herbal medicine which he had
already taught, and William soon began building a large and detailed homoeopathic library.
He also included a study of basic medical sciences. “He was a psychic who became a
scholar, and through both gifts developed into an ardent homoeopath”. The sanctuary soon
became more, with a dispensary, specialist treatment couches and diagnostic equipment,
detailed notes and records, and highly trained staff. By the time he was 25 years old, he had
treated some 5000 patients.
I could go on quoting more and more examples of the way in which this two-world co-
operation grew and grew. There was an ever-expanding list of absent healing patients from
all over the world. William Lilly spent more and more time in trance, diagnosing,
prescribing, healing; dictating letters, and, at the same time, managing to train as a
homoeopath who came to be respected in orthodox circles.
But this work was, as could be expected, not without its critics, and these were not all within
the realm of orthodoxy. As the use of remedies and other therapeutic procedures grew, it was
inevitable that there would be a conflict with those who recommended that spiritual healing
should be a simple dependence on the power of the Spirit, allied to “laying on of hands” or
similar techniques. The Doctor seems to have become more critical of these, and this led to
conflict with other well-known spiritual healers such as Harry Edwards, and this in spite of
the fact that both Edwards and Lilley had their work endorsed by well-known guides in the
Spiritualist movement, chief among whom was Silver Birch, the guide of Maurice Barbanell,
who also happened to be the editor of Psychic News.
One major area of controversy focussed on whether ectoplasm from the medium’s body
could be used to replace damaged tissue or bone within the patient. Harry Edwards – who the
author dismisses as a “well-known non-trance contact healer” (in spite of the fact that he had
141
a huge absent healing postbag, and much experience in researching physical phenomena) was
quite clear that:
To assert that ectoplasm can be dissociated from the producing medium and intelligently
maintained within the body of a second party is outside all known experience . . . it is
incomprehensible according to known facts.
Dr Letari maintained that this was not only possible, but had actually been done, but Harry
Edwards remained unconvinced. This is one question among many raised in this book that
others will have to answer. This reviewer refuses to take sides.
It would be easy to fill many pages with examples, both illuminating and controversial, from
this absorbing book. It is a complex and fascinating work, featuring not only healing, but also
the life stories of the author and many others involved in this unique work. It warrants a more
detailed analysis of the reported facts than is possible in a short review, a closer look at the
philosophy – a mixture of Spiritualism and Vedantic Hinduism – which underpinned them,
the implied proofs of personal survival, and the possibilities opened up by the idea of
education from discarnate sources. Last, but not least, it has implications for the future study
of ways in which science and spirituality can co-operate and not be in conflict..
For the moment, I can only heartily recommend this book to anyone who has the slightest
interest in homoeopathy, complementary therapies, Spiritualism and psychic phenomena. It
embraces the vision of a future where co-operation between the worlds fulfils the promise
which has often been glimpsed but never fully realised, and this is more than enough
recommendation for any book.
JIM PYM
—~§~—
142
THE ACCORDION PLAYING OF
D. D. HOME
Herbert Thurston, S. J.2
Note by LP: Visitors to the Society for Psychical Research
(SPR) office in Kensington may see an accordion which
traditionally belonged to D.D. Home. This may have come to
the Society via Russia, as indicated by a note in JSPR March
1927:
“Certain letters and other manuscripts which had
belonged to the medium Daniel Dunglas Home, together
with photographs and a model of his hand, were offered to
the Society by a nephew of the late Mr. Alexander N.
Aksakof, now unfortunately a Russian political refugee.
The Council welcomed the opportunity of acquiring these
documents and relics, not only for their intrinsic interest,
which is considerable, but also as being in some way a
link with Mr. Aksakof, who at his death bequeathed a
large legacy which was the basis of our Endowment Fund. Many of the documents
have never been published, and throw an interesting light on the career and times of
D. D. Home, a fact which members who attended the Conversazione in November,
when Mr. Dingwall exhibited and explained some of the more important ones, will
appreciate.3
With them was presented to the Society a large bronze bust of D. D.
Home. A catalogue of the documents has been compiled, and can be consulted by
members in the Society’s rooms.”
Dr Gauld has kindly consulted his photocopy of the Dingwall catalogue, and reports:
“The final item (900) is written in by hand and is “D.D. Home's accordion.” That is
all it says, and furthermore it is not part of the main catalogue, but at the end of two
additional typed sheets entitled “Supplementary Catalogue.” This contains items
some of which postdate the 1926 Dingwall catalogue up to 1936 but many obviously
predate it, and are probably things the SPR had before 1926. So it is quite uncertain
when the accordion arrived.”
Dr Gauld goes on to make some suggestions for further research into provenance.
Meanwhile, readers may like to read the paper below by Herbert Thurston. This makes it
clear that different accordions were used in various places, that the music varied, and that the
phenomenon was far from rare with Home. Although the accordion is often mentioned in
accounts of Home, not least in the Wikipedia account which offers several explanations,
Thurston’s paper has been neglected, and the diversity of the evidence not appreciated.
LP.
2
.‒Taken from his book The Church And Spiritualism, originally published in 1933 Chapter IX pages 167-187.
3
.‒Dr. Eric J. Dingwall: Noted researcher for over fifty years, former Research Officer of the Society for
Psychical Research.
Herbert Thurston, S. J.
143
The Church and Spiritualism – more or less?
A West Country reader has reported that the last paragraph of the Thurston chapter
on Home and Rome, as printed in Psypioneer, April 2014, is not in his copy of the
book. The explanation appears to be that we reproduced that paper, not from the
first edition of 1933, but from a second printing (also called therein, the second
edition) by the same publisher in 1935, to which the author had made changes and
additions. Our reader’s copy of the book is a 1999 hardback reprint by Roman
Catholic Books, evidently made from the first edition. We notice that other reprints
have since become available, and we caution readers to establish before purchase
which edition is being reprinted.
The version below of the accordion article is from the first edition:
THE name of Father C. M. de Heredia
has already been mentioned, and many
of my readers will probably be familiar
with his book, Spiritism and Common
Sense, which, published in 1922, went
through two editions in six months and
has been translated into German, Dutch,
and Portuguese. It is to be noted that
this distinguished Jesuit Father does not
reject all physical phenomena
indiscriminately as fraudulent. On the
contrary, in his later work, Los Fraudes
Espiritistas (1931), he expressly
declares (p. 238) that he is inclined to
believe that the levitation of such
inanimate objects as tables and stools
does take place. But the general
impression left by his lectures and
writings would undoubtedly lead the
unobservant to conclude that his point
of view does not notably differ from that
of Dr. Liljencrants, who, as we have just
seen, looks upon D. D. Home as no
more than an exceptionally clever
impostor. It would be a great simplifica-
tion of many problems if one were able
to say that all the varied manifestations
of Spiritualism were merely tricks. But the strength of the evidence seems to me, as
previously explained, altogether inconsistent with such an easy solution. The “common
sense” which is appealed to on the title page of Father de Heredia’s book, must compel
reasonable men to recognise the validity of human testimony when that testimony
remains uniform under very varied conditions, and when the possibility of mal-
observation owing to defective light, etc., is excluded by the circumstances of the case.
Moreover, I repeat that from the logical point of view, Christians who accept the miracles
and other historical incidents recounted in the Gospels, are in an exceptional position.
144
They cannot consistently throw overboard the reiterated statements of modern witnesses
of credit who relate what their eyes have seen and their ears heard, in circumstances
which apparently exclude the possibility of deception. Our whole system of apologetic is
based upon the belief that the evangelists spoke truly when, for example, they recorded
that our Lord walked upon the waters or appeared suddenly to His disciples in a chamber
with closed doors.
To discuss the entire range of Home’s spiritistic phenomena would need much space
and is manifestly impossible here. I propose, then, to confine my present remarks to a
simple type of manifestation, not because it seems to me the most conclusive, but partly
because it is lightly dismissed both by Father De Heredia and Dr. Liljencrants, and partly
because it is particularly well attested by a great variety of witnesses. Father de Heredia
refers to this particular matter three times, but the principal passage runs thus:
“Father Ugarte de Ercilla makes much of Sir William Crookes’ famous experiment
with medium Home4
in which an accordion held by the medium was played, supposedly,
by the spirits. The accordion is held in one hand by the keyless end and the other end
allowed to hang untouched toward the floor, so that manipulation by the medium is
impossible. A wire netting is placed around the suspended accordion so that no hand can
reach the other end to move the instrument to admit the air necessary for making the
sound, or to press the keys to play the notes. Yet, after a few minutes, a tune is heard.
This demonstration produces an extraordinary effect on the sitters. It can be done in full
light. Usually the accordion is suspended under a table which is a haunt for spirits, or is,
at least, so considered. This is generally held as one of the best spiritistic phenomena.
“I offer the same demonstration in my lectures. After a few minutes of expectation, I
give a signal to a friend behind the partition, who plays a tune on another accordion. As
he is invisible and as the source of the sound is not discoverable, especially when
attention is riveted on the simple instrument, the effect is as convincing as the humbug is
simple”5
Dr. Liljencrants, following Podmore, suggests a quite different explanation. He writes:
“The experiment with the accordion was considered by Sir William Crookes and his
assistants as a crucial test. It is evident that Home could not have played the accordion
under the circumstances. On the other hand, the alleged phenomenon is so extraordinary
that we cannot accept its genuineness unless all possibilities of prestidigitation or other
forms of trickery can be eliminated. This, we think, cannot be done. . . .
“The music consisted of a few sounds, several notes in succession and a simple air.
What could have been easier for Home than to produce this quantity of music by a music
box carried concealed on his person? The most natural conclusion is, then, that the
accordion did not play at all, and that the experimenters simply took for granted that the
4
.‒This observation refers to a book entitled El Espiritismo Moderno, p. 168, and to a series of articles
contributed by Father Ugarte de Ercilla to the periodical Razón y Fe in 1922.
5
.‒De Heredia, Spiritism, pp, 67-68; cf. pp. 63 and 138.
145
sounds from the concealed music box issued from the accordion. There is nothing in Sir
William’s account to suggest that he ascertained the exact source of the music.”6
Dr. Liljencrants proceeds to discuss the matter further in some detail, but apparently
with no fuller knowledge of the facts than might be obtained from Sir William Crookes’
brief summary printed in his article and from Podmore’s Newer Spiritualism. He
entirely adopts the latter’s suggestion that “no other apparatus was required for the trick
than a small musical box, a loop of black silk, and a hook with a sharp end.”7
Reading the account given by Fathers de Heredia and Liljencrants, one would be led to
suppose that the accordion phenomena had only been produced in the séances with Sir W.
Crookes in 1871. In point of fact they were constantly exhibited by Home during a period
of nearly twenty years, and they have been described in detail by a variety of witnesses
far too numerous to specify here. The earliest account I have met with belongs seemingly
to March 17, 1855, before Home had ever come to England. Mr. Rufus Elmer states:
“An accordeon [sic] held under the table in one of Mr. Home’s hands, the other
being on the table, with the keys downward was played in strong tones, three parts
being maintained, and any tune performed that was called for—even foreign music.
The instrument was played upon while held in the same manner by each person
present—all hands except the one which held the accordeon being upon the table in
sight. These manifestations were all made in a room well lighted by gas.”
I quote this, not for its evidential value—all that I know of Mr. Rufus Elmer, in whose
house these manifestations took place, is that he was a gentleman of some social standing
at Springfield, Massachusetts—but for its early date. The account is printed in Professor
R. Hare’s book, Experimental Investigation.8
But assuming the truth of the statement that
the accordion played in a private house, not only when held upside down by the medium,
but also when similarly held by each person present, it would be difficult to suppose that
either a musical box and a black silk thread or a confederate provided with another
accordion in the next room could adequately account for the music heard.
For a second witness let us take Mr. R. Bell, the lifelong friend of Thackeray, and
himself a man of letters who has earned a place in the Dictionary of National Biography.
Mr. Bell contributed to the Cornhill Magazine (August, 1860) an article on Home, under
the title “Stranger than Fiction.” Thackeray, in printing it, guaranteed “the good faith and
honourable character” of the writer. The description of the accordion playing is far too
6
.‒Liljencrants, Spiritism and Religion, pp. 136-137. He pursues the subject, pp. 138-39. But surely it is not easy
to believe that a musical box can be made to sound like an accordion.
7
.‒Podmore, The Newer Spiritualism, pp. 50-57.
8
.‒Experimental Investigation of the Spirit Manifestations. I quote from the fourth edition of Professor Hare’s
book printed at New York in 1856, p. 84, What we do know of Mr. Rufus Elmer is that scientists from Harvard,
like Professor David Wells, and men of letters, like William Cullen Bryant, attended séances at this house.
*For more information on Robert Hare see Leslie Price’s “Tate” lecture to the SPR in London on October 2nd
2008, published in Psypioneer Volume 5. No 11. November 2009:—Early survival research, is it still relevant –
Leslie Price:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.11November09.pdf
146
long to quote in full. Mr. Bell grows eloquent regarding the beauty of the music: “We
listened with suspended breath. The air was wild, and full of strange transitions; with a
wail of the most pathetic sweetness running through it.” Then he goes on:
“That an instrument should be played without hands is a proposition which nobody
can be expected to accept.... The story will be discarded as a delusion or a fraud. . . .
But we need not speculate upon what might be done by skilful contrivances, since the
question is removed out of the region of conjecture by the fact that upon holding up the
instrument myself in one hand, in the open room, with the full light upon it, similar
strains were emitted, the regular action of the accordion going on without any visible
agency. And I should add that, during the loud and vehement passages, it became so
difficult to hold, in consequence of the extraordinary power with which it was played
from below, that I was obliged to grasp the top with both hands. This experience was
not a solitary one. I witnessed the same result on different occasions when the
instrument was held by others.”9
When a newspaper controversy arose, occasioned by this article, Dr. Gully (of whom
more anon), who had also been present, fully corroborated Mr. Bell’s account. The séance
had taken place in the house of a cabinet minister, Mr. Milner Gibson.
But let me turn now from Mayfair to a country house in Hampshire. This is what Captain
Chawner declares to have occurred in his home at Newton Vallence in May, 1864:
“An accordion was played in the most ravishing manner in Mr. Home’s hand under
the table, but we had full opportunity of looking under the table while it so played. He
held it in one hand, keys downward, the other hand being on the table. I asked for the
“Last Rose of Summer,” and in that position, with no human or visible touch of the
keys, it entranced us with its sweet notes, which appeared to grow fainter and fainter,
and at last died away in the distance, ending with a mournful echo that seemed out of
the room. I requested that the instrument might be played upon whilst in my hand. I
held it upside down with one hand. With no visible agent near, it was first gently
shaken, then pulled, and a few chords struck. Afterwards the pulls and jerks were so
forcible that it was with difficulty I could hold it. Another note or two was sounded and
then it remained quiet. I was sitting three feet off Mr. Home when this occurred,
between my wife and sister. Mr. Home had both his hands on the table. The accordion I
had borrowed a few hours previously in our post town, and Mr. Home never saw it
until that evening. My wife then took it, but though distinctly feeling something
pulling, no sounds were elicited.”10
Captain E. H. Chawner, of whom an obituary notice maybe found in The Times of
December 23, 1916, was a justice of the Peace, and a well-known county magnate. In the letter
just quoted, which is dated May 24, 1864, he declares: “Collusion is out of the question;
delusion I equally repudiate. Every facility was offered us for examination. We looked under
9
.‒Cornhill Magazine, August, 1860, pp. 221-222.
10
.‒Spiritual Magazine, August, 1864, p. 378.
147
the table and some of us even sat under it. I am as convinced as I am of my own individuality
that Mr. Home could not have caused by any human agency the phenomena we witnessed.”11
Mr. Frank Podmore, in his final discussion of the accordion phenomena, makes two very
astonishing statements. “I know,” he says, “of no instance in which it is recorded as playing in
a good light”; and he adds, “I am not aware of any good evidence that the keys were ever seen
to move, and any conjurer, in a light of his own choosing, could make the instrument contract
and expand while he held it by a loop of strong thread.”12
For a man whose life was spent in
the minute scrutiny of evidence this is a surprising misrepresentation. Take, for example, such
testimony as the following. Writing of Dr. Carpenter’s article in the Quarterly Review for
October, 1871, on “Spiritualism,” G. S. Thompson, M.D., of Clifton, Bristol, remarks:
“He [Dr. Carpenter] seems to express a desire that the experiment be tried in open
daylight, and above instead of under a table, and in the presence of trustworthy
witnesses. I think I can satisfy him on all these points.... At a séance in my own house,
the accordion, while suspended by the lower end from one of Mr. Home’s hands (while
the other hand rested on the table), by which he held it at least two feet above the table,
did play, and the whole party consisting of seven persons, heard it, and, moreover, saw
the keys and the bellows move simultaneously. . . . I may also add that the room was
fully lighted, every part of it being distinctly visible.
“I should also like to state that Mr. Home did not see the accordion till it was given
him after we were seated at the table, and that during the time the accordion was
playing, I passed my hand all round it, in order that I should be perfectly satisfied that
nothing was attached to the keys.”13
But let us take a more scientific witness. Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., speaking of a
séance held at the house of Miss Douglas, 81 South Audley Street, London, W., on May 9,
1871, records in his contemporary notes:
“I took particular note that Mr. Home’s feet had boots on and were both quiet, at
some distance from the instrument, and that although the keyed end was rising and
falling vigorously and the keys moving as the music required, no hand, strings, wires or
anything else could be seen touching that end.”
He goes on to remark that the room. was lit by four candles, one on the table, two on the
mantlepiece, one on a side table, and that there was a wood fire in the grate, though this was
rather dull. The accordion was then given to others, Home’s two hands remaining on the
table, and while they held it, it played for a time.14
Similarly Crookes’ notes of another sitting
at the same house record that “we then heard and saw the keys clicked and depressed one
after another, fairly and deliberately, as if to show that the power doing it had full control
11
.‒Ibid. Cf. Capt. Chawner’s report of another seance with Home, printed in the Spiritual Magazine, January,
1865, p. 47.
12
.‒Podmore, The Newer Spiritualism, pp. 50-51.
13
.‒Spiritual Magazine, January, 1872, p. 42. Dr. Thompson gives his full address.
14
.‒Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, Vol. VI, P. 102.
148
over the instrument.”15
On this occasion three spirit lamps were used to examine the
phenomenon at close quarters.
I have already made reference to Dr. J. M. Gully, MD., a physician living at Malvern, who
maintained close relations with Home for many years. Dr. Gully, of whom an account is
given in the Dictionary of National Biography, was the father of the well-known Speaker
of the House of Commons, who, before his death, was created Viscount Selby. In a series
of articles contributed to The Spiritualist in 1873, Dr. Gully describes at great length the
wonderful music played by the accordion on different occasions when Home was staying
with him at Malvern.16
These enthusiastic appreciations must be omitted here, but the
following precise statement deserves to be quoted:
“Frequently the accordion was played whilst lying on the floor or on the sofa, not near
to any of us; and once I recall how it was played whilst in the air over our heads, but very
soon it fell, in consequence of our movements to observe, and the consequent
disturbance of the conditions. I have myself held the instrument close to a bright lamp,
Home only standing by the side, but not touching it, and marked the bellows’ movements
and those of the keys while the spirits were executing the chords.”17
Dr. Gully was 65 when he wrote this and he lived for another ten years. In view of the
other independent evidence of precisely the same kind, it is difficult to believe that in so
writing he was either hallucinated or insincere. One striking piece of testimony by Mr.
Serjeant Cox is in effect identical with Dr. Gully’s. Home had been spending the day at
Mr. Cox’s house. After supper, on leaving the dining room, Serjeant Cox tells us:
“As Mr. Home and myself were entering the drawing-room lighted with gas, a very
heavy chair that was standing by the fire, thirteen feet from us, was flung from its place
through the whole length of the room and fell at our feet. No other person was in the
room, and we were crossing the threshold of the door. Mr. Home seated himself at the
piano and commenced to play and sing. As I was sitting by his side listening, it occurred
to me to try if the accordion would play in my own hand as in his. I took from the box in
which it had been sent, an instrument I had that day purchased at the Soho Bazaar, and
re-seated myself, holding it by the end opposite to the keys, and suspended thus between
myself and Mr. Home as he continued to play the piano. Presently I felt the accordion
lifted up and down, and then some notes were sounded, and then it joined, though but
imperfectly, in the tune he was playing. This was in the light, and, therefore I am sure it
was not, indeed could not be, touched by him, for he was playing the piano with both
hands. I then requested him to hold the accordion with his left hand (I was sitting on his
left),and play an air on the piano with his right hand. He did so, and immediately the
accordion held by him with the keys under, played beautifully in accompaniment to the
piano, for at least a quarter of an hour, three or four tunes. The accordion was then
15
.‒Ibid., p. 119.
16
.‒Note also Dr. James Gully’s involvement with the photographs of “Katie King” see Psypioneer Volume 8.
No 7. July 2012:—The Katie King Photographs Four “Katie King” Photographs – Psychic Science, and also
Paul Gaunt comments:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.7July2012.pdf
17
.‒The Spiritualist, March 1, 1873, P. 125.
149
passed to my hand, and while I held it by the end opposite to the keys, played a tune
perfectly. The force of the upward pressure of the bellows was so great that it required all
the strength of my arm to resist it.”18
Naturally, here again, everything depends upon the credibility of our witness. Who was
he? The Dictionary of National Biography will tell us that he was a successful barrister, as
his legal distinction of Serjeant-at-Law implies. He a wrote many books on jurisprudence,
he founded and edited the Law Times (as well as several other newspapers), and down to
the time of his death, in 1879, he retained the important official posts of Recorder of
Portsmouth and Chairman of Middlesex Sessions. As he was a wealthy man, he could have
had no conceivable interest of a pecuniary kind in lending his support to Mr. Home.
Serjeant Cox was keenly interested in psychology. He founded and was president of the
Psychological Society and was a member of the Dialectical Society. He never became a
spiritualist, but, like Sir William Crookes and some others, he ascribed the phenomena he
witnessed to what he called “psychic force.” All things considered, one would be inclined
to say that no better testimony could be offered with regard to any strange happenings than
that of this keen and successful lawyer, who was also a shrewd man of business.19
An apology is undoubtedly due to the reader for this dull reiteration of statements
identical in purport. I can only assure him that the number of the witnesses to Home’s
accordion phenomena who are crowded out for lack of space, is considerably greater than
that of those for whom I have found room.20
But I must still beg indulgence for two more
citations. The first of these is from The Times of December 26, 1872. After the issue of the
Report of the Dialectical Society on Spiritualism, in 1871, The Times, then at the zenith
of its prestige, felt constrained to take some notice of the subject. A commissioner was
appointed by the editor to investigate the alleged phenomena. He attended some séances
and drew up a statement. But the article was kept back for more than a year, and was
eventually published in a much edited form, so as not to jar too rudely upon the prejudices
of unsympathetic readers.21
Still, the commissioner was allowed to say that he was utterly
at a loss to explain the manifestations he had witnessed. The most important séance took
place in a private house, at first in good light. Mr. Home and Miss Kate Fox acted as
18
.‒What am I? A Popular Introduction to Mental Philosophy and Psychology, by Edw. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law, Vol. II, pp, 388-89 (London: Longmans, 1874).
19
.‒For Edward William Cox see Psypioneer Volume 2. No 11. November 2006:—Was Sergeant Cox a
Spiritualist?:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.11November06.pdf
20
.‒For those who may pursue the subject, I set down, without by any means exhausting the list of first-hand
testimonies to Home’s accordion phenomena, more than a dozen more references: (1) Robert Owen in
Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph, June, 1855, Vol. I, p. 30; (2) Garth Wilkinson, M.D., in the Morning Advertiser,
October 12, 1855; (3) T. D. Barlee in Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph, 1856, III, p. 20; (4) “A Plain Man” in
Sunday Times, February 17, 1861; (5) J. Enmore Jones in Spiritual Magazine, February, 1861, p. 69; (6) James
Hutchinson, Spiritual Magazine, February, 1861, p. 90; (7) E. T. P. in Journal of the Society for Psychical
Research, July, 1889, Vol. IV, p. 130; (8) General Boldero, Ibid., Vol. IV, pp. 124-125; (9) Lord Dunraven
(père), Experiences with D. D. Home, p. III; (10) Professor von Boutlerow, in Mrs. Home’s The Gift of D. D.
Home, P. 345; (11) F. N. Brodrick in Spiritual Magazine, 1871, PP. 383-84; (12) P. P. Alexander, Spiritualism,
a Narrative with a Discussion, 1871; (13) Dr. Philip Davis, La Fin du Monde des Esprits (Paris, 1892), pp. xiii-
xiv. Several more testimonies will be found in the Dialectical Society’s Report on Spiritualism, and in Home’s
Life by his widow.
21
.‒See, regarding this, The Spiritualist for January 1, and January 15, 1873.
150
mediums. “On the table,” says the commissioner, “was an accordion which we took to
pieces and tried and found to be in every respect an ordinary instrument.” I pass over all the
other interesting manifestations and confine my extracts to what concerns the accordion.
While the light was still good:
“Mr. Home holding the accordion under the table in his right hand and by the end
farthest from the keys, it played a distinct tune, Mr. Home’s left hand being on the table
and his feet so raised as to be visible. All other hands were on the table.”
After the dark séance began:
“Presently, Mr. Home’s and Miss Fox’s hands and feet being in strict custody, we felt
the accordion pressing against our knees. We put our hand under the table, when the
instrument appeared to be moving round till its wooden base was placed between our
fingers. In that position we held it with its keys downwards; it seemed to be pushed up
towards our hand and played a few bars.”
Finally, the commissioner reports in general:
“Mr. Home seemed to wish to conceal nothing, and gave us every opportunity
consistent with the above conditions for satisfying our scepticism. Yet we need hardly say
that we were unable to satisfy it. At his request we got under the table with a lamp a great
many times, insisted always on seeing his hands and feet, or on having them, as well as
those of Miss Fox, held firmly. As to the hand with which Mr. Home held the accordion
under the table, all we know is that on one of our sub-mahogany expeditions with the spirit
lamp, we saw the hand quite still, and we saw the accordion moving up and down and
playing music.... We tried our best to detect imposture, but could find no trace of it. We
searched Mr. Home and found nothing upon him but his clothes.”22
The last occasions known to me in which the accordion phenomena were exhibited with
Home in England occurred in April and May, 1873. The sittings took place in Miss
Douglas’s house, 81 South Audley Street. Mr. Stainton Moses, Sir William Crookes and his
wife, and Mr. Serjeant Cox were present. The first named, in some contemporary notes
published later by the Society for Psychical Research, records how:
“He [Home] took the accordion up in his right hand and held it under the table. Soon it
played. . . . Finally it played ‘Home, sweet Home,’ very sweetly. At one time Mr. Home’s
hand was withdrawn from under the table, and he allowed it to go where it was impelled,
still holding the accordion. It drew steadily towards the reading lamp and in full light we
saw it playing, expanding and contracting steadily. Mr. Home held it by the bottom, the
keys being downward. After this it was replaced under the table, still in Mr. Home’s hand,
and Serjeant Cox was told to look under the table. There he saw the hand—a full-sized
man’s hand, apparently—playing the accordion. About that he is absolutely certain. It was
light enough to be quite visible.”23
22
.‒The Times, December 26, 1872, in an article of three and a half columns. The commissioner who wrote the
article was Mr. Broome, afterwards, Sir F. Napier Broome, Governor of Western Australia and later of Trinidad.
23
.‒Proceedings of the S.P.R., Vol. IX, p. 307. The hand here spoken of was a spirit hand, with no arm attached.
151
At a similar meeting held on May 7, 1873, “the accordion (held as before) played a
strange weird melody unlike anything earthly I ever heard.”24
A still later séance at Florence is described in The Medium and Daybreak (August 7,
1874), where we have first of all a letter from Cavaliere Sebastiano Fenzi, dated Florence,
July 27, 1874, and, as an enclosure, a letter from Mrs. B. Webster. Cavaliere Fenzi pledges
himself to its truthfulness and he himself assisted at the first séance mentioned, which
took place in his own house. Mrs. Webster names the witnesses present, seven in number, all
people known in Florentine society and one of them a senator. The phenomena included the
apparition of many materialized hands which were felt and grasped, a candle all the while
burning on the table. Two features, however, are of special interest. In the first case “the table
was tilted up at a very sharp angle, a pencil laid on the cloth never stirring, nor an accordion
and a glass candlestick that stood on the table making the least movement, which at such an
inclination would have been impossible in ordinary conditions.” Further “the whole table rose
horizontally from the floor to the height of several inches.” Later on, Mr. Home, we are told,
“took the accordion in his hand, or rather the harmonicon,25
this being the only substitute
that Mr. Fenzi had been able to procure in the city. It was a most unwieldy instrument,
too heavy almost to hold in a single hand, and nearly unmanageable, the bellows being
so long that the keys, which were downwards, nearly touched the floor, Mr. Home
holding it by the bellows end upwards, his other hand resting on the table. Presently the
bellows, unwieldy as it was, began to move, and a few long-drawn notes were sounded.
Count Finocchietti was then requested to look under the table and endeavour to see the
spirit hand playing. At first he only saw the keys playing apparently untouched, but at
last he vaguely distinguished a hand on the keys. Others looked but failed to see the
hand. When it came to my turn to crouch under the table, after a while I distinctly
descried three fingers that looked as if they were transparent and made of gray gauze
pressing down the keys.”
A second séance took place in Home’s apartments in the Pension Anglaise. Here again there
was a company of seven, including the “Director-General” of the Tuscan prisons, as well as
two prominent Florentine ladies—the Countess Passerini and the Countess Parrigai. Apart from
other phenomena of materialized hands, and moving chairs and tables, we are told that:
“The accordion, a more moderate-sized one, brought by one of the visitors, was held
by Mr. Home bottom upwards under the table, his other hand, like everyone else’s, on
the table. The influence being so strong, I was permitted to crouch under the table, and
with a candle throwing its full light on the instrument, I distinctly saw a very large
masculine hand, looking like very robust flesh and blood this time (and, by the way, as
unlike Mr. Home’s hand, whose fingers are thin, tapering and wan, as anything could
possibly be)playing on, and pressing down the keys. Nota bene that the keyboard nearly
touching the ground, it would have been necessary for any human hand to so touch the
keys, that the person to whom it belonged should have been lying or crouching on the
floor, or that the hand should have come through the floor itself.”
24
.‒Ibid., p. 310.
25
.‒In the newspaper the word is printed “harmonium,” but it seems more probable that the writer must have
written “harmonicon.”
152
Finally, Mrs. Webster gives some account of a third séance at which she was not present,
but the details of which she heard from those who were. She tells us among other things that:
“Count Corbelli, at whose house it took place, having asked for his wife’s favourite
air, the accordion played throughout one of the airs of ‘Marta’ which was precisely the
one asked for. It would have been as impossible for Mr. Home to have guessed what air
this gentleman’s wife preferred, as to play it with one hand.”
No doubt the writer means to play it with the one hand which held the accordion.
Finally it would be unreasonable to omit
any mention of the test experiment carried
out by Sir William Crookes, the more so that
this seems to have been the only account of
which Mr. Podmore and Dr. Liljencrants
thought it worthwhile to take notice.
Crookes tells us that the room was lighted by
gas, that the accordion used was a new one
which Home had neither handled nor seen
before the experiments began, and that the
wire cage, provided to exclude the
possibility of contact from outside, just fitted
under the table at which Home sat. Dr.
Huggins, afterwards Sir William Huggins,
F.R.S., was also present with two of Crookes’ assistants. Held by Home with the keys
downwards in the manner so often described, the accordion inside the cage began to expand
and contract and to play several notes in succession. The hand by which it was held was quite
still, and Home’s other hand lay flat on the surface of the table.26
Then a simple air was played.
“But the sequel was still more striking, for Mr. Home then removed his hand altogether from
the accordion, taking it (i.e., his hand) quite out of the cage and placed it in the hand of the
person next to him. The instrument then continued to play, no person touching it and no hand
being near it.” Later on, as Crookes tells us,
“I and two of the others present saw the
accordion distinctly floating about inside the
cage with no visible support. This was repeated
a second time after a short interval. Mr. Home
presently reinserted his hand in the cage and
again took hold of the accordion. It then
commenced to play, at first, chords and runs,
and afterwards a well-known sweet and
plaintive melody, which it executed perfectly in
a very beautiful manner. Whilst this tune was
being played, I grasped Mr. Home’s arm, below
the elbow, and gently slid my hand down it
until I touched the top of the accordion. He was
26
.‒Both photographs are taken from Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism by William Crookes
published by James Burns circa 1874. Article titled “Experimental Investigation of a New Force,” reprinted
from the “Quarterly Journal of Science,” July 1st 1871.
153
not moving a muscle. His other hand was on the table visible to all, and his feet were
under the feet of those next to him.”
Here then is a selection of the evidence, extending over nineteen years. It will be noticed
that every sitting which I have cited took place in a private house, a fact which seems to me
fatal to Father de Heredia’s theory of a confederate with another accordion, even if we could
believe that an observer under the table could be mistaken as to the source of the sound which
he judged to proceed from an instrument only a foot or two away from his ear. As for the
musical box suggestion, the nature of the music described in many of these experiences is
utterly inconsistent with the theory of a mechanical origin, while the silk-thread hypothesis is
preposterous in the case of an apparatus which passed into other hands round the table and was
often visible in a strong light.
Then, as to the good faith of the witnesses, it is impossible to suggest any serious doubt. Out
of more than fifty independent testimonies to this phenomenon which I have read and for which
I am prepared to supply accurate references, the majority come from well-known men who
could have no interested motive for misrepresenting the facts. Apart from Count Tolstoy and
the distinguished Russian scientist Butlerov, nearly a score of these witnesses find a place in
the Dictionary of National Biography, and its supplements. They are, to be precise: Robert
Owen, Robert Bell, Dawson Rogers, Sir William Crookes, Sir William Huggins, Dr. Garth
Wilkinson, Dr. Gully, Robert Chambers, W. Stainton Moses, S. C. Hall, two Lords Dunraven,
Serjeant Cox, Sir F. N. Broome and the 26th Earl of Crawford. Others, like Mr. James
Hutchinson, for many years chairman of the Stock Exchange, and Dr. Lockhart Robertson,
editor of the Journal of Mental Science, were not so widely known, but were deeply
respected within their own circle of acquaintances. It is as impossible to believe that these men
were speaking untruthfully as it is to suppose that they were in each separate case hallucinated.
If Home’s manifestations had taken place in his own rooms, and with his own accordion, and in
such darkness as that demanded by the Davenport brothers, we should very reasonably suspect
some imposture, but it seems certain that he always offered every facility for thorough
investigation.
Could anyone suggest a plausible theory as to how the accordion trick is worked by
mechanical means, I should be only too glad to accept a natural explanation of the marvel,
but meanwhile, one’s trust in the validity of human testimony when founded on the
simultaneous evidence of three senses—sight, hearing, and touch (I refer to the tugging
of the accordion when held)—constrains me to the belief that in Home’s presence the
instrument did play without any normal human agency. Whether the influence at work
was psychic, or spiritistic, or ectoplasmic, or diabolic, is a problem which I can make no
attempt to solve.
I must add at the end of this chapter that I feel I have not half done justice to the strength of
the evidence for the phenomena here discussed. To appreciate its full force one must read for
oneself the testimony of witness after witness to the fact that in a well-lighted room the
accordion moved of its own accord from place to place, that it played, even when lying at some
distance when no one was near it, and that the beauty and variety of the music performed were
something much beyond what anyone could expect from so unpromising an instrument. When
Mr. Podmore speaks of “some simple air” and suggests that it was produced by a musical box,
he can never have read, or at any rate must have failed to remember, the description given by
more than a score of independent witnesses. No doubt the accordion often played familiar tunes
154
like “Home, sweet Home” and the “Last Rose of Summer,” but we also hear repeatedly of a
quite different style of music.
From the one book which records Lord Adare’s experiences we obtain such references as
these: “The accordion then played something like a voluntary on the organ. The peculiarity
being that the last few notes were drawn out so fine as to be scarcely audible—the last note
dying away so gradually that I could not tell when it ceased” (p. 55). “The accordion was now
played with great power, like a sort of jubilant hymn. It was pulled with such force that Mr.
Home was obliged to hold it with both hands” (p. 268).“The harmony could be heard dying
away and then swelling again. The accordion was drawn out from under the table, Home still
holding it, lifted over his head, and brought round to Miss D. R. It was lifted up and presented
towards her; the same was done to me, and it was rested on my left shoulder, and while there,
close to my ear it breathed out the softest sounds” (p. 67). “I expressed a wish that it might be
played without being held by Mr. Home, upon which he withdrew his hand, placing it on the
table; the instrument was just touching the under edge of the table, where it remained, as it were
suspended. It began playing very gently. He clapped his hands several times to show he was not
touching it. Later ‘Oft in the stilly night’ was softly played” (p. 193).“A sort of prelude was
played with tremolo effect. We then had the following message, the letters being chiefly
indicated by notes on the instrument: ‘There is spiritual discord, we pray for harmony.’ The
word ‘discord’ was given by a horrid discord being played; while ‘Harmony’ was expressed by
beautiful soft chords” (p. 267). Mr. Home must have had a wonderful musical box in his pocket
if it would do all these things. On each of these different occasions a variety of people were
present, and it is to be remembered that when the account was printed and submitted to each of
them, they all testified to its correctness. The references here indicated are to the edition of the
Dunraven book printed in the Proceedings of the S.P.R., Vol. XXXV.
Again, when Dr. Gully wrote to confirm the account given by Robert Bell in the Cornhill
Magazine article (1860), he said:
“Then the accordion music. I distinctly saw the instrument moving and heard it
playing, when held only at one end, again and again. I held it myself for a short time,
and had good reason to know that it was vehemently pulled at the other end, and not by
Mr. Home’s toes, as has been wisely surmised, unless that gentleman has legs three
yards long, with toes at the end of them quite as marvelous as any legion of spirits. For,
be it stated, that such music as we heard was no ordinary strain, it was grand at times,
at others pathetic, at others distant and long drawn, to a degree which no one can
imagine who has not heard it. I have heard Blagrove repeatedly, but it is no libel upon
that master of the instrument to say that he never did produce such exquisite distant and
echo notes as those which delighted our ears. The instrument played, too, at distant parts
of the room, many yards away from Mr. Home and all of us.”
This letter is reprinted in the Spiritual Magazine, Vol. II,(1861), p. 90.
What perhaps is even more curious, there were definite occasions when the accordion
played very ill and seemed to be in the hands of some bungling performer. There is one
example of this in the Dunraven book (p. 67), and another perhaps even more striking in a
Dutch account of a séance with Home at the Hague (Berigt van Manifestatien, 1858,
p.12—the anonymous author only styles himself Oogetuige—“Eyewitness”). When the
“harmonica” began to sound, someone called out that this was surely the performance of
155
a beginner, whereupon a chorus of spirit raps heartily endorsed the remark. But those present
saw the keys moving, no one touching them, and we are told that there was good light from
lamps in the room. At Edinburgh in 1871, Mr. P. P. Alexander records that a clumsy rendering
of “Auld Lang Syne” was quickly followed by a perfect repetition of the piece on the same
instrument.
As a rule, however, the tributes paid to the manner of playing of the accordion were most
enthusiastic, and in many cases the music seems to have been of the nature of an improvisation.
More than one auditor professes to have been spellbound by a realistic musical imitation of the
tramp of feet, ending after a pathetic interlude in strains of triumph. It is described by some,
seemingly on the ground of references made to it by Home himself, as “the March to
Calvary.”
What lends a certain importance to all this is the fact that extreme sceptics, who reject all
psychical phenomena, are content to refer to the accordion experiences as a matter too foolish
to call for notice, or else, like Dr. Liljencrants, appeal to Mr. Podmore’s discussion of the
subject as if the whole question were settled by the suggestion of a crooked pin, a black silk
thread, and a small musical box in Home’s pocket. I can only invite the reader to examine for
himself what is said on the subject by Professor Alfred Lehmann in the third German edition of
his Aberglaube und Zauberei(1925), or by Graf Karl von Klinckowström in Der
Physikalische Mediumismus, popularly known as the Dreimänner Buch. These critics brush
the whole matter aside with a mere reference to Podmore and without a pretence of argument.
—~§~—
156
Leslie Price will deliver a paper at this conference about the
impact of the Psypioneer project.
—~§~—
157
SPIRITUALIST AMBULANCES IN THE
GREAT WAR
Psypioneer readers will recall that members of the SNU now have their own
journal The Pioneer, also edited by Paul Gaunt, which offers further
information on the history of the Union.27
In the April 2014 issue of
The Pioneer, the editor
recalls the successful efforts
made by Spiritualists to
collect funds for motor
ambulances to be sent to the
Front.
Subscribe free pioneer@snu.org.uk
There are also fascinating features on how healing began to be taught in the Union, and on
Robert Owen’s contribution to the Movement.
L.P.
—~§~—
27
.‒The Pioneer Journal:—http://www.snu.org.uk/spiritualism/pioneer.html
158
AN “APPORT” MEDIUM, MR. T. LYNN
By the HON. PRINCIPAL of the College28
Note by LP: In Encyclopedia of Psychic Science (1934), readers find a short article
about Lynn, T. who is also mentioned in the entry on “Apports.” The full account of
the experiments there described, had appeared in Psychic Science, and is reprinted
below. Major Mowbray published his own recollections in his booklet Transition.
There is some uncertainty as to the author of this paper. Mrs Barbara McKenzie had
taken over the post of hon. principal by the time of publication, but the report (with
its grammatical omission of articles) may be notes by her husband, Hewat.
Of all the physical happenings manifested through psychic powers, “apports” are perhaps
the least well verified to the mind of the critical student, not only Sir Oliver Lodge but many
others holding their judgment in suspense regarding these, perhaps through lack of
opportunity for observation, perhaps from a disbelief in the idea that a solid object can be
disintegrated, or be made to disappear, and can subsequently be brought into a closed room
and reintegrated or made visible in its original form, apparently none the worse for the magic
handling, although in many cases it has been noted that the object so produced is warm and
even on occasions hot.29
The recent articles on the “Direct Voice in Italy,” (see January and April PSYCHIC
SCIENCE, 1929) bring this phase into great prominence, and the incidents of apports in this
mediumship provoke interesting comments from Professor E. Bozzano,30
supplemented by
explanations from Cristo D’Angelo, the “guide” in the Centurione mediumship, as to how the
wonders are achieved; notes as to similar happenings which have come under the Professor’s
notice with other mediums are added. Those who have not read his remarks would find it
well worth while to send for these two issues of PSYCHIC SCIENCE, still available at the
College.
Some mediumship seems to be rather closely confined to this aspect as in the case of
Charles Bailey of Australia, and of Herr Melzer of Dresden; both of these have been proved
genuine mediums on many occasions, although like so many physical mediums they have at
times been under grave suspicion, and sometimes not without reason. Many other physical
mediums have on odd occasions produced apports. It might not be going too far to say that
28
.‒Taken from the Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science Vol. VIII.—No. 2. July,
1929 pages 129-137. Mrs McKenzie had recently become hon. principal reported in Psychic Science October
1928,Vol 7 No. 3 page 184.
29
.‒Apports see also: The Physical Phenomena of the Past ... (Apports Flowers, Birds and Precious Stones
Brought into Closed Rooms) – W. Leslie Curnow, B.A. See Psypioneer Volume 8. No 6. June 2012:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.6June2012.pdf
See also the British College’s negative experiments with the Flower Medium—Hilda Lewis. See Psypioneer
Volume 6. No 6. June 2010:—The Flower Medium — Mrs. Hewat McKenzie, Oct 1935:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.6June2010.pdf
30
.‒For Professor Ernesto Bozzano see Psypioneer Volume 5. No 10. October 2009:—The strange case of the
Marquis’ transportation – Massimo Biondi:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.10.October09.pdf
The book review of this case by Theodore Besterman would cause Sir Arthur Conan Doyle just prior to his
death in 1930 to sever his long connection with the Society for Psychical Research. See Psypioneer Volume 5.
No 8. August 2009:—Conan Doyle's resignation from the SPR:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.8August09..pdf
159
probably all physical mediums have this power. John Sloan of Glasgow, chiefly a voice
medium,31
and Evan Powell in his earlier mediumship in Wales,32
had such experiences.
Aaron Wilkinson of Yorkshire, a clairvoyant and trance medium, who has also some physical
power, speaking recently at the College, told several incidents of “spontaneous” apports
which arrived in his presence, and presumably through his psychic power in a fully lighted
room while in a social company of friends. One such apport was a ring which fell into his
hands, and which seemed to have been brought from a distance of a mile from the house of
one of the guests who had omitted to put it on his hand when dressing. On another occasion
an old silver coin, the size of a sixpence, was dropped; its origin was never traced. In the
early history of the “Margery” mediumship, some incidents of this kind were noted. The
element of spontaneity, taking advantage of unexpected appropriate conditions, is frequently
noted in the production of apports.
The work undertaken at the College with Frau Silbert, the Austrian medium, gave many of
our members an exceptional opportunity to realise that objects marked and placed in the same
room in which the sittings were held, could, in her presence, under conditions of good light
and excellent control of the medium, be moved inexplicably from their carefully marked
place on the floor, disappear completely from view for a long or short period, and reappear in
the air or in the outstretched hands of the medium during the séance. On one occasion I saw,
with four other witnesses, a heavy gold cigar case, which a moment before had been verified
to be under the table, appear five feet over the table, and fall into the outstretched hands of
the medium in a curving direction. It came into view at a distance of at least two feet from the
hands of the medium. This was only one of many remarkable happenings.33
If then, articles in the same room as the medium, can, under conditions which preclude all
conjuring, be hidden from our view and reappear without injury of any kind―watches were
frequently used in these experiments without harm or stoppage―we may surmise that if
another dimension or grade of matter of some kind at present unknown to us is utilised for
such experiments, the walls of a room need form no impediment. Mr. Bligh Bond postulated
something of this kind in an article on Frau Silbert’s mediumship, (see “PSYCHIC
SCIENCE,” April, 1923, Vol. II, No. 1). On the other hand, we find a statement in the
Bozzano notes, referred to above, that the guide stated on occasions that the articles, if small,
were disintegrated and recomposed for purposes of apport, and that on these occasions they
might be hot on arrival, but if large, that a wall or a door could be dealt with in the same way,
and the article be transported in its integrity.
31
.‒See Psypioneer Volume 8. No 12. December 2012:—John Campbell Sloan (1869-1951) – Paul J. Gaunt and
also A Scotch Materializing and Voice Medium – Mrs Hewat McKenzie:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.12December2012.pdf
32
.‒See Psypioneer Volume 7. No 7. July: 2011:—Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Evan Powell – Paul J. Gaunt and
also Evan Powell’s Mediumship - Leslie Curnow:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.7July2011.pdf
See also Psypioneer Volume 7. No 8. August: 2011:—Evan Powell the Welsh Physical Medium – Psychic
Science:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.8August2011.pdf
And also Psypioneer Volume 7. No 10. October 2011:—Evan John Powell and Sherlock Holmes – Paul J.
Gaunt, and also Last of a Great Line (Evan Powell) – Psychic News:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.10October2011.pdf
33
.‒See Psypioneer Volume 9. No. 09-10. (double issue) September – October 2013:—The Mediumship of Frau
Maria Silbert 1866-1936, and – A Record of Frau Silbert’s Work at the College in June and July, 1922 –
Psychic Science, and also: Frau Silbert and Ectoplasm – Arthur Conan Doyle:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP9.9-10September2013.pdf
160
A physical medium has always, presumably, a certain amount of loose psychic force
within him, and it is possible that in cases when apports are brought from outside the séance
room, that at some period prior to the séance, the medium may, while in the neighbourhood
of certain articles, quite unconsciously magnetically attract them by the use of this etheric
matter, and hold them in suspension in some manner in his neighbourhood, thus enabling the
“guides” later at the séance, when conditions are right and more psychic force available, to
draw the articles into the focus of the circle and make them visible. I do not know that the
apport medium is ordinarily aware of what may be brought at any given séance, although it is
noticed that each one seems to have an attraction for a particular kind of article―flowers,
stones, curios, live animals in some cases, but if I can argue from observations with Frau
Silbert, it was noticed on dozens of occasions that she knew intuitively a few minutes
beforehand what manner of article would appear on the table or in the air, and became
distressed if the object was long delayed in transit. It was judged that already etheric force in
the shape of an ectoplasmic extrusion, both seen and photographed with her at the College,
had gone out and touched a particular article, and in so doing, registered the action in her
consciousness. The disappearance of the object, followed this cognition. Did this etheric
force form a cloud of invisibility―such a cloud has often been noticed in séances―which
shielded the object from view, until it was ready to be returned; if so, it is not necessary to
postulate disintegration of objects in Frau Silbert’s case.
In 1927, there was brought to the notice of the College, the work of an apport medium in
the North of England, a miner, Mr. T. Lynn, and Mr. Hewat McKenzie and Major Mowbray
went north to investigate the claims made. Mr. Lynn has been a medium for sixteen years, but
has only exercised physical mediumship since 1926. He developed this gift in his home
circle, first sitting in the dark, and later using a degree of light. He offered himself for full
stripping and examination before and after the séance, and in addition was dressed in fresh
clothes and then placed in a bag of black material, tied and sealed at the neck. The
examination at the close of séance, of bag, clothes and person, disclosed no interference, but
on several occasions, small red marks were noticed on the body, on front and right side of
abdomen. Similar marks have been noticed on the flesh of other physical mediums after
phenomena; Evan Powell, Franeck Kluski,34
and “Margery,” have all reported and shown
discolourations on body and limbs, presumably at points where there has been an extrusion of
ectoplasm. In Lynn’s case there are certainly such extrusions, taking the form of small coils
or rods of varying shapes issuing from the neighbourhood of the solar plexus, which are
strong enough to lift small articles, and to rap clearly on a table, or pluck the strings of and
play a simple tune on a harp placed in front of the medium, or rhythmically swing bells
suspended from the curtain rod of the cabinet. I have seen the end of this rod striking the
table; it seemed to the eye to end in a round luminous patch.
34
.‒Mostly spelt Franek Kluski (Teofil Modrzejewski) was born in Warsaw in 1873; his profession was in
banking, journalism and also a poet. His mediumship was active 1918 – 1925, taking a break due the Polish /
Russian war in 1920. He gave up mediumship due to poor health, a heart condition due to being shot in the chest
apparently due to a duel around 1900. Kluski was a married family man; he was not a professional medium and
accepted no fee. He died in January 1943 of tuberculosis and was buried in Warsaw. PJG
161
Mr. McIndoe of Glasgow,35
Secretary of the Spiritualist Association, in reporting a visit
from Mr. Lynn in “The Two Worlds,” November 9th, 1928, says, “The psychic rod which
taps the tray was plainly visible to all the sitters, though not actually tapping it.” On several
occasions, Mr. Hewat McKenzie has stood close to the tray and directly over it, and heard the
strings plucked and played, but saw nothing. The explanation of such variation would be that,
as the “guide” states, on some occasions and depending on séance conditions, the extrusion
can be made solid and visible to the naked eye.
Mr. J. Stewart of Croydon, made careful and detailed observations at several séances
with Lynn, and says, “Something in the shape of a small luminous butterfly was seen
moving about cabinet. It did not seem to have any connection with the medium.” Again
he says, “Apports” are held suspended above tray for twenty seconds in some
instances.”
It is stated that in earlier Lynn séances, when held in the dark and sitting round a
table, apports of small bottles containing wax in various shapes, and sometimes
coloured and stoppered in wax, were received. Some were very crude, but others I have
seen seem to have moulded images inside, one a bird which it would seem difficult to
achieve by any pouring of melted wax into a bottle. According to Mr. E. E. Noble, a
careful observer, one such small bottle, which had arrived as an apport and out of which
coloured scent had been dropped on the sitters, was, later in the séance filled with wax
apparently taken from a piece of candle, also an apport; how this was achieved in the
empty bottle, previously seen and smelt by the group, I do not know, but as these bottles
are freely shown by the mediums as apports, it is well to mention them. Since the
séances have been held with a degree of light, no bottles with wax have been apported.
Photographic Experiments, with “Apports.”
That apports are not on all occasions simply dropped from nowhere, will be seen by
study of some of the remarkable photographs illustrating this article. These and the fine
enlargements accompanying them, which reveal so much detail, I owe entirely to the
skill and devotion of Major C. H. Mowbray, a member of the College Council,36
who
has spared no expense and pains and trouble to get these as perfect as possible. On two
occasions cameras, plates, apparatus, smokebag, etc., were transported to Lynn’s home
for this purpose, and with Patrick, the “guide’s” consent the first pictures were taken.
Patrick first asked for one trial flash upon the medium, in order to understand the
reaction of the medium to the brilliant light. It has been so often stated and proved, that
a sudden flash of light thrown upon a physical medium while in trance, has had serious
physical effects, that care is necessary in the use of the photographic flash and
cooperation with the guide, who seems to be able to produce extra strength for the
occasion and furnish some kind of protection so that no harm results. At one early
35
.‒ President of the Spiritualists’ National Union 1930-1938 see Psypioneer Volume 7. No 10. October 2011:—
The Glasgow Association of Spiritualists – Paul J. Gaunt, and also Historical Notes (Glasgow Association of
Spiritualists) – The Two Worlds:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.10October2011.pdf
See also Psypioneer Volume 8. No 8. August 2012:—Mr. J. B. Conklin and the Founding of Glasgow
Association of Spiritualists – Paul J. Gaunt, and also Early Glasgow Spiritualism – The Medium and
Daybreak:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.8August2012.pdf
36
.‒The Quarterly Transactions of the BCPS Vol. IX No. 3. October, 1930 reported Major Mowbray had
resigned his position as Research Officer at the College.
162
experiment after Patrick had said that he understood the matter, several flashes in
succession were signalled by him against our judgment. The medium reported
later that he had suffered from swelling on the temples after this séance. After this
experience we limited the taking of photographs at our own discretion, and no further
complaints were made.
The first visit North for photography was made in July, 1928. Mrs. Lynn had kindly
removed all furniture from a bedroom and fixed up a corner cabinet with a rod and two
curtains. A few chairs completed the furnishing. Several members of the medium’s
home circle were present, but neither they nor Mrs. Lynn approached the medium after
he was searched, clothed, put in bag and placed in cabinet. Major Mowbray, myself and
several College workers controlled the conditions entirely on this and all subsequent
occasions, and were satisfied with the conditions provided. A small white night lamp
was used for illumination, quite sufficient to see each other by, and to see the cabinet.
This was maintained during the séances, and was only lowered slightly on one or two
occasions. The medium becomes entranced within ten minutes or so, after some singing,
and Patrick then makes himself known and takes control throughout, though there are
others in the band of guides said to give assistance with the phenomena.
Two cameras were used, one whole plate ordinary lens, and a half plate camera with
quartz lens. The flash is timed to one-thirtieth of a second. On July 28th, the result
shown in Fig. 1 was secured, and a cheap pearl necklace picked up immediately after
from the tray placed on table in front of medium on which the apports usually fail,37
showed us that this had probably been successful, as the photograph shows. Fig. 1A, a
fine enlargement of this result, shows some of the larger beads on the necklace, which is
held by some kind of extrusion. The medium is seen in the bag sitting in the cabinet.
Other apports at this séance consisted of a small reel of cotton, a button, a shell and a
screw nail. The medium always drinks a glass of water with salt in it immediately after
the séance―this on instruction of guide, it is said. This may replace some fluidic
element drawn from the body during the phenomena. I have known other physical
mediums drink thirstily after a séance.
On July 29th, the same conditions prevailed, and in addition the medium’s hands
were bound to his knees firmly with tape previous to his being placed in the bag. This
binding was found intact at close of sitting, and did not seem to interfere with
phenomena, but the medium complained of discomfort. The apports on this occasion
were two thimbles―a hair slide, followed by a second which fell on my head as I
picked the first off the tray. Two photographs were taken, both showing a small patch of
luminous material gathered apparently at end of a “rod” suspended over the harp placed
on the table, and probably used for striking. This luminosity was seen by all the sitters
-see Fig. 2 and 3. A third flash, which resulted in Fig. 4, presents puzzling phenomena, a
finger-like projection is seen as if extending to strike harp (see enlargement of this, Fig.
4A). In addition, when photograph was developed, there is seen in the medium’s nose
what looks like a bone ring, and hanging from his lips a cord or appendage with a teat
almost like that used in a baby’s bottle. The medium’s features seem slightly
transfigured (see enlargement Fig. 4B), Nothing of this was known at the time, as the
plates were not developed till we returned to the College, but on our next visit, when
37
.‒The original says “fail” but could it mean “fall”?
163
Patrick was asked about the appearance, he said a Maori guide of the medium might
have had something to do with it. Lynn and his circle said they had never had anything
of the sort before nor has it occurred in any other result.
Criticism has been offered by some groups with whom Lynn has sat as to the trivial
nature of the apports, many of which have a Woolworthian aspect. It was reported on
one occasion that a paper bag crumpled into a ball was given as an apport, and that this
was identified as a paper bag used by a local Woolworth. The triviality is immaterial; a
sixpenny necklace is of as much value as a diamond one, provided the conditions of the
séance, and the search of the medium, are satisfactory. It may, as I said before, depend
on some magnetic attraction of which we are ignorant.
A second visit to continue the experiments was paid by the same College
investigators in September, 1928, The same strict examination and conditions were
observed. At a sitting on September 15th, the first apport was a two-barbed, one inch
fish hook (a sufficiently difficult article to conceal in any way), a small ring followed,
and then after a photographic flash, a small glass bead bangle was picked up from tray
and found quite cool and dry. Fig. 5 shows this, and Fig. 5A shows the curious round
attachment in the region of the solar plexus of the medium, to be noted in so many of
the photographs. A cord or “rod” seems to issue from this, and a similar mass appears to
grip the article. The looping of the rod in this case is curious.
On September 16th, 1928, conditions as before produced a steel bolt, a watch key, a
ring of beads and a thimble, all at separate intervals. Tapping was heard on the table, as
if made with a light rod, and the patch of luminosity was seen. Several photographs
were taken, all showing extrusions apparently used for tapping. Fig, 6, and enlargement
6A, and Fig. 7, and the remarkable detail given by its enlargement in 7A, give some
idea of the formation of these “rods.” They are not straight, but coiled in a fine way. On
this occasion, while examining the bag previous to the medium being placed in it, I held
it up to the daylight, and found a considerable number of small holes, about the size of
perforations which could be made with a stout knitting needle. These were in both back
and front and in the region of chest and abdomen, though several were placed lower. I
pointed these out to another worker who was examining with me, and we spoke to Mrs.
Lynn about it. She said they had never noticed anything of the kind, though they had
noticed a white mark occasionally in inside of bag after the séance. actual wording
After the séance I spoke to Lynn on the matter, saying that it was well that
everything should be noted if further light was to be gained on the subject. Dr.
Crawford found with Miss Goligher that the moulds of ectoplasmic rods often had the
pattern of her stocking upon them, showing that the exudation had assumed this
formation in its way out.38
The bag used by Lynn is of close black material, sateen, and
could not give same escape as a woollen fabric. In the process of return to body of
medium, some such aperture as the holes may have been formed, but few know
anything of the nature of ectoplasm and its methods, and I cannot dogmatize. If any
reader has any knowledge of similar appearances after physical phenomena, I should be
glad to hear.
38
.‒See Psypioneer Volume 9.No. 12. December 2013:—Five Experiments with Miss Kate Goligher by Mr. S.
G. Donaldson, and also The Confession of Dr Crawford – Leslie Price:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP9.12December2013.pdf
164
When later Lynn came to the College, a new bag was provided, and though the
strictest examination was made of the bag before and after the phenomena, nothing of
this nature was again noticed. On this visit Lynn announced that he intended to give up
his mining work and devote all his time to mediumship. For a few months he did this,
visiting Scotland, Ireland, Croydon, Southampton, Portsmouth and many other places. I
have various reports of these visits from competent observers. During this period he
agreed to pay a visit to the College as we were naturally desirous, before reporting upon
his work, to examine it in the College séance room, although the conditions in the North
were quite satisfactory. The visit took place, in March, 1929, and on arrival, he reported
to me that he had been consistently losing weight since he had devoted his whole time
to séance work, and was somewhat concerned about it; he had on the average been
giving three séances a week. The stoppage of muscular work might partly account for
some of the loss, but not for all, so we took occasion to weigh him before and after each
séance. Readers may be interested to see the results:
Date: 12.3.29.
Stone 1bs. ozs.
Before séance (ready to go into bag) ... 10 4 6
After séance (without bag) ... ... 10 3 12
Loss ... ... ― ― 10
Next morning, after supper and breakfast intervening, his weight was 10 stone 41bs.
8 ozs., a gain of 2 ozs. on his original weight.
Date: 14.3.29.
Stone 1bs. ozs.
Before séance ... ... ... ... 10 3 12
After séance ... ... ... ... 10 2 10
Loss ... ... ― 1 2
Morning after ... 10 2 12
showing that 1 lb. had still to be made up in weight. On this occasion, one of the sitters at
the séance, a College member, Mr. M., who sat on Mr. Lynn’s right, was weighed before and
after, and we found that he had lost 8 ozs. during séance. Mrs Lynn weighed also, had gained
2 ozs. during the séance. Mr. M. above, reported to me during séance, that just before an
apport arrived, both his hands to the wrists became intensely cold with a sensation as if he
were wearing rubber gloves. This frozen feeling has often been noticed in physical séances
where sitters are giving force.
Date: 16.3.29.
Stone lbs. ozs.
Before séance 10 4 0
After séance 10 3 2
Loss 14
Mrs. Lynn lost 2 ozs., and on this occasion Mr. W., a sitter, lost 8 ozs.
165
Professor Crawford of Belfast, who made many careful experiments on loss of
weight with Miss Kathleen Goligher of Belfast, reported a constant variation in weight,
varying from several stones to several ozs., according to the phenomena produced (see
Psychic Structures (Crawford)). Even a slight tap, he observed, could not be produced
without a variation in weight in the medium, and sledge hammer blows meant a loss of
pounds, but quite regularly when the phenomena was over, the medium’s weight
adjusted itself to its pre-séance standard. He noticed too that the sitters contributed in
varying degrees, though only slightly as compared with Miss Goligher.
On March 14th a photograph of a curious extrusion was obtained, see Fig. 8, and
enlargement 8A, which shows a projection striking table, and gives a very good
example of a rapping rod with enlarged end, which is curiously indistinct, as if
weakened by flash, as compared with rod.
A small salt spoon was picked up after a second photograph was taken, and in Figs.
9, and its enlargement 9A, photograph taken with ordinary camera, and Fig. 10, and
enlargement 10A, taken with quartz lens, exposed simultaneously, a fine picture of the
arrival of this apport is seen. The curious gripping appendage as shown in Fig. 8A, is
very remarkable. Many small apports were received at these séances, in addition to
those photographed. On one occasion a large rather rusty fish hook, 2½ inches in length
appeared; on another seventeen small brass curtain rings and 4 pieces of a manicure set,
all sharp pointed. Levitation of the table was attempted, but an attempt to photograph
this was not successful.
At the séance of March 16th, an apport of a penknife with two blades open was
apparently dropped at the extreme edge of circle of sitters, and near the medium’s wife.
A photographic flash taken at this juncture reveals a blurred small object about three feet
above the head of the medium in cabinet. An enlargement shows a faintly marked cord
extending from this object to neighbourhood of medium. This is the only record I have of an
article falling so far away from the medium, and it may be imagined that the flash caught the
object prematurely, with the result that it was projected into the circle instead of falling as
usual on tray or table. This photograph is hardly good enough for reproduction in these pages,
but enlargements and lantern slides show above condition very clearly. The College is
indebted to Mr. and Mrs. Lynn for their hearty co-operation in these experiments, which were
quite new to them, and which in my estimation have added considerably to our knowledge, as
to what may take place in some of these strange manifestations called “apports.”
I am indebted to a business man, Mr. E. E. Noble, who has sat with the medium on many
occasions in the medium’s house and in his own home for very interesting reports regarding
the apports. On several occasions he mentions that small piles of soot and of flour were laid
neatly on the table on a paper previously marked by sitters. Milk and salt water have also
arrived in receptacles on table previously empty; the dripping of the latter was clearly heard,
and the former bore no trace of having been carelessly poured into the vessel. On one
occasion Mr. Noble provided some carmine, and asked the control to dip end of a “rod” into
this and make marks on a paper provided. This was done, but examination of marks obtained,
showed no definite structure; Mirror-writing on paper provided by Mr. Noble has also been
produced, showing occasional clairvoyance for certain sitters.
166
ARTICLE PHOTOGRAPHS
—~§~—
167
168
169
170
171
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages
294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan the Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ – a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback
ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry
H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45Psypioneer references by
Leslie Price pages 39-42:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009.
ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-056667-
1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
172
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.comor “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
