{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v10_n8_aug_2014.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V10 N8 Aug 2014","mylang":"de"}
231
F
Amalgamation of Societies
—~§~—
—~§~—
232 – Séance Photography – Paul J. Gaunt
234 – Spiritualism through the Lens – Colin Evans
247 – Paul J. Gaunt comments on Colin Evans
249 – Sitters See His Body Floating in the Air- A. W. Austen
249 – “The Link” Triumphs Again – Two Worlds
254 – In Conclusion …
256 – Concerning Infra-Red and Ultra-Violet Rays – Dr. R. A. Watters, Sc.D
260 – “The Link”—The Association of Home Circles & “The Noah’s Ark Society”—for
Physical Mediumship – Paul J. Gaunt
263 – Some books we have reviewed
264 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER
JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST
Volume 10, No. 08: August 2014
232
SÉANCE PHOTOGRAPHY
From the early days of Modern Spiritualism the
movement has produced some remarkable photographs
of its physical phenomena and for well over a century
they have been published in our journals and history
books etc. One example is the photographs showing
the alleged full form materialisations of the spirit of
Katie King through the mediumship of Florence Cook
during William Crookes’ researches in the early
1870’s. In Psypioneer July 2012, it was shown that
numerous photographs credited to Crookes were not
actually taken by him. For example, the well-known
picture of Dr. Gully holding Katie’s hand was not
taken at Crookes’ residence at Mornington Road but
by the editor of The Spiritualist newspaper (1869-
1882) William Harrison, at Hackney in 1873.1
We have also quite extensively covered spirit photography from its start to the more recent
times of William Hope and Mrs Ada Deane.2
In the early 1930’s it was considered by some
Spiritualists and researchers that the problems of photography in the séance room was behind
them with the introduction of infra-red photography. Psychic News, stated it: “opens up
tremendous possibilities” and published on their front page (April 7th 1934) according to the
paper, the first séance photograph taken in the dark, with the physical medium Dorothy
Henderson.3
Leon Isaacs would pioneer much of the infra-red séance photography, working with
Spiritualists and researchers. He secured a position as honorary photographer to the
International Institute for Psychical Research (founded in 1934).4
Isaacs invented and
manufactured all his own apparatus. We have published some of the work at the International
Institute with Nandor Fodor and the transfiguration medium Elizabeth Bullock.5
1
.‒Psypioneer: Volume 8. No 7. July 2012:—The Katie King Photographs Four “Katie King” Photographs –
Psychic Science, – Paul Gaunt comments:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.7July2012.pdf
2
.‒A Brief History of Spirit Photography, by James J. Morse is serialised in Psypioneer starting in Volume 9. No
06. June 2013:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP9.6June2013.pdf
Use our online search engine for Hope, etc at:—www.woodlandway.org
3
.‒Psypioneer: Volume 8. No 5. May 2012:—Infra-Red Photography and the Physical Mediums – Paul J. Gaunt,
– Materialised Form Photographed – S. G. Donaldson, – Infra-Red Rays in the Seance Room – Psychic News,
– His Infra-Red Séance Pictures were Foretold by Mediums – Psychic News:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.5May2012.pdf
4
.‒Psypioneer: Volume 7. No 2. February 2011:—Whatever happened to the British College? – Psychic
Science, – *The International Institute for Psychic Investigation (IIPI) (*formed from the British College &
International Institute for Psychical Research in 1939):—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.2February2011.pdf
5
.‒Psypioneer: Volume 8. No 6. June 2012:—Transfiguration – Infra-Red Photography and the Physical
Mediums Continued – Paul J. Gaunt, – Mrs. L. Bullock of Manchester – The Two Worlds, – New Research
Method – Light, – Transfiguration – Light, & – She Became a Chinaman – Nandor Fodor:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.6June2012.pdf
233
Later in 1947 Isaacs would hit the Spiritualist press with some impressive séance
photographs with the medium Ronald (Cockersell) Edwin, who later confessed it was a fraud.
The ectoplasmic rods were likened to the séance photographs of Jack Webber, taken some
years earlier. The story of Ronald Edwin Cockersell, Fraudulent Medium – Genuine Psychic?
was published in Psypioneer July 2013.6
Psypioneer has also previously published its research into the photographs of the various
forms produced in the Helen Duncan materialisation séances, which go some way in
explaining the rather grotesque, sometimes referred to as papier-mâché, image of Peggy. The
article also contains some previously unknown photographs. Psypioneer holds a considerable
amount of reliable well documented original material on Helen Duncan.7
In the 1930’s photographs were produced by infra-red on the two well-known mediums Colin
Evans, and Jack Webber. Leon Isaacs was involved in the large public demonstrations of
Evans’ séances, and some of Webber’s physical séances. In the July issue of Psypioneer we
published some material on the Direct Voice of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in connection with
the The Link Association of Home Circles founded in 1931. The Link held large mass
meetings for Psychical Phenomena. Mrs. A. E. Perriman, was the first voice medium for the
Link in 1934 at the Æolian Hall. A year later Leslie Flint, a friend of co-founder Noah
Zerdin, gave a large direct voice séance at Bloomsbury’s Victoria Hall.
Colin Evans’ home circle was a member of The Link Association of Home Circles, and
reports were circulating of remarkable physical phenomena in Evans home circle of which
Evans was already a well-known clairvoyant. The Link decided to centre some large mass
séances around Evans’ home circle. This was in late 1937; arrangements were made for
Nandor Fodor, research officer for the International Institute for Psychical Research, to
record any the phenomena which might occur. Several photographs of levitated trumpets
were secured; one of these was published in the Two Worlds for December 10th 1937. This
led to Evans’ circle demonstrating direct voice, materialisation, spirit lights, and levitation
etc., at some of The Link’s mass meetings. In the February 11th 1938 issue of the Two Worlds
further reports of séances emerged of Colin Evans (not his real name), with the medium
“floating over sitters’ heads in his aerial trips round the room.” and the paper published
probably the first photograph of Evans being levitated during a séance the previous week in
London under the auspices of The Link Association. The report of the séance was given by
the well-known north-country medium Susie Hughes. However the photograph published in
the issue was of very poor quality.
6
.‒Psypioneer: Volume 9. No 07. July 2013:—Ronald Edwin Cockersell, Fraudulent Medium – Genuine
Psychic? – Paul J. Gaunt:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP9.7July2013.pdf
7
.‒Psypioneer: Volume 9. No 05. May 2013:—Victoria Helen McCrae Duncan (née MacFarlane) – Paul J.
Gaunt, – Impressions of Mrs. Duncan’s Mediumship – George F. Berry, – Early materialisations photographed
through Duncan’s Mediumship, – Later materialisations photographed through Duncan’s Mediumship, – Fine
Materialisations – The Two Worlds, & – The story continues – Britten Memorial Museum:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP9.5May2013.pdf
Use our online search engine for Duncan at:—www.woodlandway.org
234
Below is a report given by Colin Evans himself on his mediumship, which will also give the
reader a good overview of the photographic techniques employed by Leon Isaacs in the early
days of infra-red photography. The article was published by Photography, Vol. 7 No.77
January, 1939:
SPIRITUALISM THROUGH THE LENS
COLIN EVANS
Colin Evans is well known in the Spiritualist movement as a medium, and as
a speaker and writer. Some of the most famous mediums have not been men of
literary or academic education, and although it may reasonably be argued that
the case for the genuineness of their mediumship is strengthened by that fact, it
has handicapped them in meeting opponents on the platform.
Mr. Evans is a university graduate who only discovered or developed his
mediumship and active interest in Spiritualism some six years ago, since when
most of his activities in that connection—and the whole of them during the
greater part of the time—have been as an amateur medium, in spare time taken
from professional literary work quite unconnected with Spiritualism, though he
occasionally uses his mediumship professionally.
The publication in Spiritualist and general newspapers of photographs taken by
infra-red light at his seances, has largely been the means of making him so
widely known.
—~§~—
IN view of the enormous divergence of views regarding
the reality or the explanation of psychic phenomena, the
appropriate tone, from a journalistic point of view, to
adopt in an article of this nature, in a journal neither
spiritualist nor anti-spiritualist but devoted to an utterly
different subject, would probably be a non-committal
one. Such an attitude, however, would be a mere
affectation in a contribution by a known spiritualist.
If, therefore, I write “such-and-such a thing occurs,
the spirits often do so-and-so,” instead of the possibly
less controversial “such-and-such a thing is claimed by
spiritualists to occur; the spirits, or the subconscious ego
of the medium, or some unknown terrestrial force, do,
or appear or purport to do, so-and-so,” it must be
understood that I expect such readers as find the latter
reservations necessary from their own point of view.
I am confining myself to an attempt to indicate a little of what has been done or attempted in
the way of using photography to throw additional sidelights on the subject.
Modern spiritualism has just celebrated its hundredth anniversary—though the same
phenomena, and, to a large extent, the same inferences drawn from those phenomena, have a
COLIN EVANS
235
continuous history as old as history itself.8
But attempts at systematic study and research have
to a large extent been handicapped till very recently by the necessity for every newcomer to the
subject to “start all over again.”
Psychic phenomena, evidential communications from the “dead,” all those manifestations
summed up by St. Paul as “spiritual gifts—the discerning of spirits, prophecy, the working of
miracles, the gifts of healing, divers kinds of tongues,” etc. (1 Cor. xii, 8-10)—might occur
again and again before large and small groups of witnesses; but, the next moment, there would
simply be the memory and testimony of those witnesses, which would become less and less
convincing, as time went on, to others who had not been present.
This is where permanent records, or at least illustrations by which to check reports, in the
shape of verbatim shorthand notes, gramophone records, and (especially) photographs, have
made a very real difference.
The difficulty with regard to photographic evidence at one time seemed almost insuperable.
The mental phenomena of mediumship—trance control, whereby a person who has discarded
the physical body at “death” is able to express his own personality through another man with a
specially developed sensitivity, resulting in apparent “impersonation” of the dead person by the
living medium, with the former’s mind and knowledge and mannerisms evidentially
reproduced—clairvoyance and clairaudience, by which sensitives or mediums are attuned
to see and hear spirit forms and voices imperceptible to the ordinary physical senses—
obviously are not things that can be photographed.
But there are the so-called “physical” phenomena which do produce tangible, audible,
physical effects external to the medium’s own body—material objects, even the medium’s
body itself, are moved without visible physical manipulation or mechanism; parts or the whole
of physical bodies reproducing the earth-bodies of the dead are made temporarily material so
that they can be felt, touched, seen, heard.
If these things are true, as such scientific investigators as Sir William Crooks, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Prof. Lombroso, etc., have testified, they should be photographable.
Photography depends on the chemical reaction of emulsions to etheric oscillations of certain
wave-lengths or frequencies which definitely alter the chemical and physical constitution of the
earlier and simpler (dye-less) photographic emulsions—hence the picture.
This is but one of the facts that lend credibility to the at first startling modern theories of the
constitution of matter as essentially consisting of etheric vibrations , and to Sir Oliver Lodge’s
theories of the etheric body, and some types of psychic phenomena, as dependent on, and
consisting of, certain manifestations of the luminiferous ether. But if this be so, it is
understandable that (as those with personal experience of psychic experiment have always
claimed) etheric oscillations of certain frequencies are definitely liable to interfere seriously
with unusual manifestations of the etheric “substance,” so that many of the most “material” or
quasi-material phenomena can seldom be obtained in light, or if light is suddenly flashed during
their production grave injury may be done to the medium.
8
.‒“Modern spiritualism has just celebrated its hundredth anniversary …” This presumably should read ninety
years 1848 – January 1939!
236
In spite of the basic difficulty here involved—that photos need light, and light hinders
phenomena or injures mediums, Sir William Crooks secured large numbers of photographs—
some still extant—of the materialised form of a girl dead many years before,9
under conditions
eliminating every possibility of error or trickery, and Schrenck-Notzing obtained many
photographs of “ectoplasm”—living substance normally not “material” but temporarily given
“material” qualities—coming from a medium, and partially built up into materialisations of
hands and other portions of a body.
These photographs were taken by flashlight—a sudden shock of white light, strong in the
ultra-violet and blue parts of the spectrum, which would in most cases be mortally injurious to
the medium and often did cause violent hӕmorrhage.
Personally, I would not risk it. I have known what it is to have a week’s illness as a result of
a little light through an imperfectly darkened glass roof at night, when I have been used for
materialisation or there has been levitation of my body to a height above the floor.
Fortunately, however, increased knowledge, and increased development of photographic
materials, have partly—only partly—solved the difficulty. It appears that it is the shorter
wave-lengths and higher frequencies of oscillations or “light” that do most harm in psychic
experiments. The longer the wave-length, the less the interference caused by light’s oscillations
with the etheric vibrations on which the phenomena depend, and the less the repelling effect on
the ectoplasm.
Hence phenomena are often obtained in fairly strong red light which even a feeble blue or
“white” light would render impossible. The development of infra-red-sensitive emulsions
opened a new door in séance photography.
Pure infra-red light is, of course, invisible to the human eye—pictures taken by it may be
said to be taken “in the dark”; but it should be clearly noted that it is not the visibility or
invisibility to the eye that matters. Strong ultra-violet light, with all visible light filtered out,
would take photographs much more easily, on much cheaper materials, and the room would
still be “pitch dark” to the eye—but it would probably stop all phenomena, and/or kill the
medium! Strong visible red light, would be far less harmful.
For much pioneer work in the taking of spiritualist séance photos by infra-red photography
and psychic research are indebted to Leon Isaacs, now a staff photographer on one of the
national dailies, who for a long time was mainly responsible for work on these lines carried out
for the International Institute of Psychical Research, and by whom, later, most of the
photographs illustrating phenomena through my own mediumship were taken—at meetings of
the Link (an association of home circles for the development of amateur mediums) and
elsewhere.
He uses a wooden box closed on five sides, the sixth side consisting of grooves within
which slides an Ilford standard infra-red screen, about 10 in. by 8 in. (gelatine cemented
between glass). Inside the back of the box is a reflector, inside the base a miniature lamp-holder
to take photoflash bulbs, wired to a torch-battery outside the box, thus giving, when the switch
is pressed, a flash—about 1/50th of a second—of light of which only the infra-red rays and an
9
.‒Should read: “Crookes” not “Crooks”. Re-Crookes photographs please see introduction “Séance
Photography,” page 232.
237
unavoidable minimum of the visible red can get through the screen. The camera, of course,
must be loaded with infra-red plates, but needs no infra-red filter in front of the lens.
By using a camera of his own construction, with a very fast (large aperture) wide-angle
lens, but taking small negatives (two exposures on a quarter-plate), he is able to get pictures at a
reasonable distance, taking in a wide enough field of view to cover the whole séance-room,
virtually, and well exposed despite the slowness of the infra-red negative stock and the amount
of light lost through the infra-red screen. He focuses the camera before the ordinary lights are
extinguished for the séance.
Development, of course, must be done either in total darkness or by a special yellow-green
safelight.
Even this infra-red light is not perfectly harmless for psychic work, and should be “flashed”
only when the spirit guides operating through the medium give permission. One of my own
spirit guides at one séance explained that the wave-length chiefly involved in the phenomena
was one of about 2,000 Angstrom units—which would correspond to the ultra-violet band—
and that the light used in taking these photographs was mainly about 8,000 Ångstrom units, the
“second sub-harmonic” of the former wave-length, and therefore did interfere perceptibly—and
that if and when photographs could be taken by using only light of as low a frequency as about
20,000 Ångstrom units much more advanced phenomena could be subjected to the “shock” of
the flash of light.
This, however, in the present state of photographic materials, would almost mean a
reversion to a “wet-plate” process!
And, even so, whether suitable filter screens would be available is doubtful.
One of my disappointments up to now has been failure to secure a photograph of a
complete materialisation of the human form of a “dead “person, though such materialisations
frequently take place. The “dead” friend is seen by the faint light of a plaque covered with
luminous paint, and often embraces or touches sitters.
My guides have, however, promised this—a materialisation fully photographed—
eventually. Meanwhile, several photographs by infra-red have been taken showing the
238
ectoplasm, of which such materialisations are built up, “oozing” from my, body—either in
small “thick” bulk, or sometimes in considerably greater quantity.
In two pictures, taken by one camera in front and one at the side, a considerable
mass of this ectoplasm is seen in front of me. The photograph taken from in front shows it
apparently issuing from my nose, and “swirling” upwards to a height of some feet above head-
level—a physical impossibility had it been a piece of any normal material, in a completely
draughtless closed room, with no wind to raise it [Photo.1▲].10
The photograph taken from one side by the same flash shows that it has completely
left my body and is some perceptible distance in front of me with no visible connection with
my own person and no visible support in the air, and one may vaguely discern the beginnings
of the suggestion of an outline of a human form, indicating that what was photographed may
have been the first stage towards a complete materialisation such as did, in fact, take place a
few minutes later.
To obviate the difficulty of the photographer judging the best moment to take a “snap,” or
the difficulty of his being prompt enough if he awaits a signal from the medium or from a spirit
entity controlling the medium, the switch, which closes the circuit by which the photoflash bulb
is ignited from the torch battery, is attached to a considerable length of flex, and held in my
own hand or attached to my chair, it having been reasonably presumed (and proved correct)
that, just as a medium in trance and not conscious can be made by spirit control to talk and
move intelligently, so he could be “controlled” to press the switch at the right moment.
The camera shutter is left open the whole time; only after the flash (perceived by the visible
red light which accompanies the infra-red through the standard infra-red screen) does the
photographer close the shutter, change the plate, and change the burned-out bulb for a new one
in the light-box, ready for the next exposure.
Other photographs taken by the same means have shown the levitation of a seance trumpet.
This is a hollow cone, or megaphone, of metal, celluloid, cardboard, or almost any other
material, used to facilitate the production and amplification of spirit voices. A “voice-box” or
larynx substitute, something at any rate having a quality of life in it, and capable of being
used to vibrate the air as a gramophone sound-box does, and make audible speech possible
without having to use the medium’s vocal organs, is apparently built up by spirit operators,
with ectoplasm drawn from the medium, in the narrow portion of this hollow cone, which
serves as an enclosure to assist the process.
The cone, or “trumpet,” also amplifies and gives a directional quality to the otherwise
possibly feeble and imperfectly audible voice of the communicating spirit. Almost invariably,
the “trumpet” is supernormally raised in the air when spoken through (though I have known
spirits to speak through it as it lay on the floor without raising it—this is unusual, however) and
while numerous gramophone records have been made at my séances, giving permanent
records of the spirit voices and messages, infra-red photographs have been taken showing the
trumpet in the air, without “visible means of support.”
10
.‒“Ectoplasm issuing from Colin Evans, nose and ears; photographs by Leon Isaacs”
239
In some of those taken on earlier dates when the spirit guides were apparently a little
uncertain of what risks they could take with the infra-red light, the trumpet is quite close to my
face—“shadowing and shielding the actual ectoplasm extruded from the medium, against the
direct rays of the infra-red light,” as one guide explained—but still evidential enough. My
hands were, of course, held usually, and there was no projection or handle on the trumpet, but it
had a band of luminous paint on the trumpet by which as many as three hundred people on
several occasions (six hundred, once, at the Conway Hall) were able to follow its gyratory
movements in the air up to the moment when the photograph was taken, so that no doubt can
arise as to whether, in my trance, I might have been in some way supporting the trumpet
against my face [Photo.2▲].11
Later, however, when the spirit people had got more used to the infra-red flash light,
photographs were taken while the trumpet was at much greater distances from me and much
greater heights in the air. The allegation sometimes made by those unable to be convinced of
such phenomena, that a photograph might be taken while the trumpet was thrown into the air,
has been disposed of by the band of luminous paint on the trumpet, enabling all the sitters to
follow its movements while it floated slowly round, and up, and all about the hall, up to the
moment of the flash, which shows it—after some five or ten minutes of such “floating”—20
feet up, in one picture.
Less obviously relevant to the great thesis of human survival and spirit communication, but
even more striking as evidence of the super-normal in action, from the point of view of the
materialist, is the phenomenon of human levitation. I am only one of many mediums who have
many times been levitated, or made to float to a considerable height in the air, with no physical
support.
The most famous instance, and one of the best attested, is that of D. D. Home, though this is
now rather a number of years ago. But there are several contemporary instances besides my
own. I only know of one other medium besides myself, however, who has been photographed
during levitation.
The first conclusive photograph of my levitation, not a very good one technically, was taken
by an amateur photographer; the second one, at home, by myself. I had placed and focussed my
11
.‒“Levitation of a seance trumpet. Photograph on the left by Leon Isaacs, and on the right by Dr. Nandor
Fodor, courtesy International Institute for Psychical Research”
240
camera before the séance and retained the switch while sitting instructing somebody else in
advance to close the camera before lights were lit when the séance should end.
Many subsequent pictures were secured by Leon Isaacs, and one by another Press
photographer sent by the Daily Mirror to a public séance at Conway Hall, when the Editor of
that paper preferred the photographic evidence of a completely disinterested member of his
own camera staff who had not any previous knowledge of spiritualism, rather than that of Mr.
Isaacs, known to be a spiritualist! [Photo.3▼].12
That paper devoted a whole page to the photo and column eye-witness report by a Mirror
reporter.
Prior to any of these efforts,
however, Dr. Nandor Fodor, former
research officer of the International
Institute of Psychical Research, had
been given permission to take some
infra-red photographs at a séance at
which I was the medium, on condition
that he gave me prints of all
photographs taken, and he informed
me that one of the photographs showed
me levitated, apparently, though in it
my legs were hidden by a sitter (my
wife) standing between me and the
camera. He hoped to verify the
levitation by comparison with a
photograph taken, by the same flash of
light, from the side, with another
camera.
That side view photograph,
however, was never given me, and by
some misunderstanding or other I was
led to think that ordinary film instead
of infra-red had been loaded into the
second camera in error giving no
negative. Only a year later did I learn
that the second camera had functioned
and get a print of the photo taken by it—showing that the lady in question was not standing, but
seated like everybody else, and showing also that I am, in that picture, not at the height from
the floor misleadingly suggested by the front view. I still don’t know whether I was levitated or
not, when that was taken—but if I was, it was only a few inches.
The later photographs show me a considerable distance above the floor, with a clear view of
and under my feet—in an attitude as if supported under the armpits by an invisible “life-belt.”
Two “snags” would make the evidence of these photos slightly inconclusive if not taken in con
junction with the “living” testimony of persons present.
12
. ‒“Levitation of the human form—medium, Colin Evans; photographer, Leon Isaacs”
241
One “snag” is that although I am frequently levitated to a very considerable height—often
“bumping” against the ceilings of lofty rooms and halls, often alighting lightly with my feet on
sitters’ heads and floating off again—the spirit operators will not permit the risk of injury by
flashing the infra-red light till I am down to within three or four feet of the floor—a distance
from which I can safely fall if the flash destroys the conditions of the phenomenon and abruptly
ends the levitation, as it sometimes does.
The second “snag,” if it were not for the testimony of those present, might be the fact that
usually, though not always, my legs and feet seem to twitch or dangle in such a way that they—
my feet—are often blurred by movement, though the rest of my body is sharp and evidently
supported motionless for the duration of the exposure. This has led some people to wonder if
the photographs showed more than a “jump”—though I am told by more expert photographers
than myself that a much faster exposure than the duration of the flash would be needed to
“arrest movement” of my whole body in that case. One or two of the levitation photos show no
such movement even of the feet.
On the other hand, some spiritualists interpret the “transparency” of lower legs in a few
levitation photos, as partial dematerialisation for a short time. I am by no means convinced of
this, myself.
One rather interesting set of infra-red seance photographs was taken by Isaacs at a séance at
my house attended by some twenty odd people, on the birthday of a “dead” little boy who has
been a very frequent communicator at our séances and who was born near Christmas. A
Christmas tree loaded with toys was in the centre of the circle—a large, heavy tree, standing
some four feet high and imbedded in earth in a heavy wooden box.
We had held a similar “party,” the year before. On that former occasion, the principals of the
Phonodisk Co., who are keenly interested in spirit phenomena, had been present with electrical
recording apparatus. Many spirit children spoke and materialised and played with toys from the
tree and even pulled crackers with earth-people in the room (all sitters’ hands and feet and my
own being controlled to obviate suspicion of mental control of the medium leading to
movements that might be mistaken for physical phenomena), and the gramophone records
made during the séance, when played back afterwards, showed over twenty different and easily
distinguishable and identifiable child voices chattering away, at times simultaneously.
This year, no gramophone records were made, but infra-red photographs taken. Two, taken
at short intervals, show, first, the circle as seated at commencement of séance, with Christmas
tree as it then was; and, next, the tree thrown by discarnate spirit hands to one side, and toys left
scattered all over the floor.
A third photo shows, instead of the tree, a curious mere blur. At the moment of its being
taken, all the sitters testified to seeing a great flash of light from (apparently) the centre of the
tree—quite unconnected with the dim red flash, from across the room, of the infra-red light by
which the picture was taken—and, at the same time, the tree was both seen and heard by sitters
to soar up into the air to a height of several feet, whence it fell with a crash [Photo.4▼].13
13
.‒“The seance pictures referred to are taken by Leon Isaacs by infra-red light. The start of the seance is seen on
the left (Colin Evans, centre of the picture); the middle picture shows the “spirit disturbance” of the toys and
Christmas tree; and on the right is the “curious blur” referred to by Colin Evans in this article”.
242
Whether the blur, which represents the tree in this picture, is the result of rapid movement of
the tree, or of the flash of supernormal light over it, or of a partial dematerialisation, is a matter
for argument by photographic and by psychic experts. Another picture taken at this séance
shows a flow of ectoplasm from the nostril, and another shows me levitated.
It is believed that the movement of objects like trumpets is usually if not always effected by
a system of rods or levers built of ectoplasm drawn from the medium—this is only sometimes
visible or tangible, sometimes merely theoretically inferred from what it does. Several
photographs of other mediums, not of myself, have shown the ectoplasmic rods in use.
One such photograph, which I have permission to reproduce, was taken at a séance with the
Welsh miner medium, Jack Webber. He is in the habit of being securely tied up with ropes,
with cotton threaded through the knots and through his buttons and button holes that would
break at any interference, and of having white light flashed on suddenly at signals from his
guides the very instant after and before phenomena, so that it can be seen that he has not
moved, instead of being controlled by other sitters holding his hands or sitting very close to him
as in my own case.
This picture shows two ectoplasm-rods coming from him, one from the solar plexus (a
common source of extruded ectoplasm) and supporting two large heavy iron séance trumpets.
At another seance with Jack Webber an infra-red photograph was secured showing the “voice-
box” mentioned above, used for “direct voice” communications [Photo.5▼].14
So far, I have spoken only of normal photographs showing or illustrating supernormal
occurrences.
Another aspect of the use of photography in spiritualistic experiments, however, is the
supernormal production of photographs—or skotographs—or the supernormal super-position
of images on a photograph.15
Probably most people have seen, or at least heard of, some “spirit
14
.‒“Ectoplasmic rods controlling seance trumpets. Medium, Jack Webber; photographer Leon Isaacs. Picture
reproduced by courtesy of Harry Edwards, Fellowship of Spiritual Service”
15
.‒Some of the best known “skotographs” (the term is said to have been proposed by Felicia Scatcherd) were
produced by Madge Donohue, some showing the guides of well-known mediums. In 1932 she produced the
guide of Estelle Roberts “Red Cloud”; other images included Arthur Conan Doyle on a “conducted tour of
Hades,” 1934. Much of her work is illustrated in Experiments in psychics, by F. W. Warrick published around
1938 by Rider & Co, London,
243
photographs” in the ordinary sense of the term. In most cases—though there are exceptions—a
mere inspection of the photograph itself is quite inadequate to determine whether we have to
do with a genuine spirit phenomenon or with a piece of crude or clever trick photography,
double exposure, double printing, or other “fake.”
To determine this question, collateral evidence of some kind is needed. This may take
various forms—the plates or films may have been bought straight from a large independent
photographic dealer by a trustworthy, disinterested, and perhaps sceptical, person; marked for
identification; sealed; and handled under the eyes of independent witnesses from that moment
to the completion of the finished print, under test conditions obviating any possibility of faking
or substitution.
There are many striking photographs showing the faces or forms of “dead” people in
addition to the photographs of the sitters, taken under such well-attested test conditions. But
without such collateral evidence, they would be quite unconvincing, for any photographer
could—and many have done so—easily imitate them by trick methods, with a resulting picture
that would look just the same. There is, however, another class of evidence to authenticate
spirit portraits—an evidential likeness of a known individual, whose appearance was not
known to the medium, and of whom there was not available any ordinary normal portrait that
could have been copied.
I have had a limited personal experience of actual spirit photography—have made
about fifty exposures under psychic conditions with a hope of obtaining spirit portraits, and
with complete success on two negatives only, incomplete success on about half of the other
negatives, and nothing supernormal at all—just normal photographs of the “living” sitters—on
the remainder.
244
One of the two completely successful spirit photos was the first one, or one of the first batch,
I ever attempted. A number of persons were at my house, and I “snapped” each in turn twice, in
slightly different poses, sitting in an armchair, against the ordinary background of my
rather light-coloured room (no special dark background). I used a Piccochic roll film camera,
taking sixteen exposures on V.P.K. film (each negative 3 by 4 cm.), with an f/2.9 anastigmat
lens of 2 in. focal length, and compur shutter, giving a1second exposure by the light of a 100
watt gas-filled electric lamp.
Having made fourteen exposures, I held the camera in my hands and was in trance for a
moment twice, each time winding on the film without making any exposure, in case of the
possibility of “skotographs.”
This is a name used for photographic images impressed on any plate or film or photographic
printing paper by spirit agency, without exposure through a camera lens to anything external.
I posted off the roll of film the same night to a large firm that extensively advertises
developing service for miniature films, with whom I thought it safer to entrust it than to my
own clumsy handling or the local “d. and p.” shop; on its return, developed, still uncut in the
roll, I got a local professional to make enlargements from the negatives.
Twelve of the fourteen exposures showed normal portraits of the sitters, with no
psychic “extras”; one of the two unexposed portions of film remained blank. But two of the
exposures showed, a little distance from, and above, the sitter’s head, a white cloud like a
cushion of cotton wool with, apparently imbedded in it, a recognisable human face. One of
these exposures was of a Mr. C., a middle-aged business man whose acquaintance I had but
recently made.
The spirit face was that of a woman with a coquettish-looking kiss-curl over one side of the
forehead and with very high, almost Chinese-looking, cheekbones. This he unhesitatingly
identified as his mother, “dead” many years before, who wore that “kiss-curl” all her earth-life
owing to her sensitiveness as to a blemish on the skin of her forehead, and whose cheekbones
were of that peculiar Mongolian type. His brother, a business man in South Africa, confirmed
the identification, though the brother is very sceptical of spiritualism.
Apparently, the rays emitted by spirit forms which affect the photographic emulsion when
invisible to the eye, are of a different intensity from the normal light by which the visible is
photographed—for the spirit face was much “over-exposed” by comparison with the rest of the
picture, and some local shading—giving the spirit face longer exposure in the enlarging camera
than the rest of the negative—was needed to get the features distinct without the rest of the
picture being all black, or nearly so.
The other successful spirit photo on this spool was of similar character, but a different sitter
and different “dead” friend. Similar experiments on later dates resulted in the same sort of
white cushion with very imperfectly distinguishable faces in some cases—all, apparently, cases
of what would have been successful spirit portraits, spoiled by undue density of the
supernormal portion of the negative.
Of the two unexposed portions of that first roll-film, the one that should have been blank,
and was not, proved to contain what looks like a photograph of a stone tablet with ragged thick
edges, inscribed with what I am told is correct but quite modern-style Hebrew lettering.
245
[Photo.6▼]16
When the only Jewish member of the
company took it to a Rabbi to see if it
could be read and translated, it proved to
be a message urging him to study the
Hebrew language, the sacred tongue of his
race, and promising that his incipient
mediumship would be most strongly
developed with the help of eminent Jewish
divines of past generations, if he did this,
but not unless—a message, it seems, that
had been given him in other forms, by
various communicators, during his sittings
with mediums, though I had no knowledge
of this.
After this incident one sitter, without
consulting or informing me, thought of
getting me to experiment further with
“skotographs.” To this end, he bought a packet of quarter-plates at Boots, and, as their
darkroom was not available, went to Kodak House, Kingsway, I believe, where he knew
somebody in the firm, and got a member of the staff there (in his presence) to take the box of
plates into the darkroom and wrap each plate separately in light proof black paper.
He brought the parcel of plates to my house, and gave me one wrapped plate at a time to
hold for a few moments while I was in trance, immediately taking them back, and took them
the same day to Kodak’s to be developed at once, himself being admitted to the darkroom to
watch.
Each showed a clear design in shimmering white on black ground—one, the two linked
triangles which are the Jewish national symbol, one a Cross, and one the Crescent, symbolic of
Islam. Spirit guides attached to me representing these three religions had just been using me for
propaganda work in connection with a reconciliation of their various creeds.
It may be interesting to note that the spool of film which resulted in two successful spirit
photographs and one successful skotograph, was developed the day after exposure—the
unsuccessful attempts on other spools were on spools that I allowed to remain undeveloped for
some weeks because only a few exposures at a time were made.
I have heard from others with more experience of spirit photography that spirit guides have
frequently insisted on the importance of prompt development, as “extras” impressed on the
plate or film tend to be evanescent, otherwise—though how this can be so, is beyond me.
A usefully economical device for experimenting with skotographs in home circles of friends
trying out what psychic power they may possess, is the use of pieces of gas-light paper, each in
a light-proof envelope made of black paper, held in the hand by each sitter during the circle,
and developed later. Using gas-light paper, rather than plates or films or bromide paper, has
several advantages—in smallish sizes it is so cheap that one can afford not to consider
16
.‒“The “stone tablet” skotograph taken by Colin Evans and referred to”
246
material’s cost in trying repeatedly, in case no results at all appear for a time; by its low
sensitivity it is not easily fogged by a little light-porosity of the black-paper envelopes, and
needs no special darkroom facilities or other precautions in handling and developing. I have
seen interesting indications of supernormal power on what should normally have been pure
white unexposed pieces of gas-light paper used in this way by amateurs.
Perhaps the greatest future possibilities in serious photographic aid to psychical research,
however, lies with infra-red cinematography. In this Leon Isaacs is probably the pioneer—the
first man to take successful cinematograph “shots” lasting for some minutes of the various
physical phenomena under test conditions.
With more photographers interested, mediums better developed to withstand light and
longer wave-length infra-red materials, the phenomena of spiritualism will be lifted more
completely from the controversial to the exact science stage of investigation.
—~§~—
247
Paul J. Gaunt comments:
Given the impressive claims of the mediumship of Colin Evans it is most surprising to find
there is almost no information on him. Most of the reports in publications and on the internet
show some of the photographs reproduced in this article and claims of fraud. However, the
claims are not based on original information, and appear purely speculative and apparently no
research has been done. The general claim is given in a couple of internet quotes:
“… photographs merely depict Evans
jumping into the air. His movement was
freezed by the flash, which he himself
activated with that cord, but not entirely, as
his feet are blurred. The next question is
then, how that packed crowd didn’t
denounce the hoax?”
“Colin Evans managed to fill a room
with a crowd, but he could only “levitate”
in complete darkness! That’s why nobody
is looking at him levitating, that is,
jumping. They didn’t see a thing. The
photos were captured with a momentary
flash. The photos were all Evans wanted”
It appears the medium was not independently
investigated outside The Link Association of
Home Circles. This may of course have been
his own choice, but rejecting further
investigation would in itself be expected to
cause some negative headlines. Evans is not
explicitly mentioned for example by the British
College of Psychic Science, or in the Proceedings or Journal of the Society for Psychical
Research. The only brief negative headline found to date is in Harry Price, Fifty Years of
Psychical Research, published in 1939, on page 199:
“Another unsatisfactory séance was that held at 61, North Gate Mansions, Regent’s
Park, on May 27, 1938, with Mr. Colin Evans. This medium claims that, in complete
darkness, he is ‘levitated.’ Mrs. A. Peel Goldney, Mrs. Henry Richards and others were
convinced that at this particular test no levitation took place and the cheque paid to the
medium was returned to the sitters.”17
Evans criticisms mainly focus on the photographs of his levitations; blurred feet in some
photographs, his partially crouched position as in jumping mode, and the camera flash, which
he himself activated with that cord, and the photographs taken in complete darkness – do these
facts apply to all conditions and photographs? [Photo No.7▲]
17
.‒Harry Price makes reference:— How photographs can be obtained of a man assumed to be levitating, but in
reality jumping, is graphically recorded (with illustrations) in Proc., SPR, Vol. XLV, Part 158, pp. 196-8. Evans
was not named in PSPR. These were not infra-red.
248
A séance with 200 people is reported at the Rochester Square Temple, London on Saturday
March 12th 1938 published in the Two Worlds (March 25th). There is a photograph of a
levitation with two ladies standing on a chair, which describes a levitation process:
[Photo No.8▼]
The two ladies seated one each side
of the medium then announced that he
was “going up.” He seemed to float
upwards from his chair, while they
held his hands, until they had to stand
on their chairs and stretch their arms
upward to retain hold of his hands,
which were drawn slowly but
irresistibly right out of their reach, so
that they had to let go—and a moment
or two afterwards, sitters in different
parts of the circle at some distance felt
his feet drop fairly heavily (Mrs. Jackie
Kruze said very heavily—others, not
heavily enough to hurt them, but
heavily enough and long enough to be
distinctly felt and recognised) on to
their heads and then float upwards
again. The two ladies who occupied
seats next to his, and who had been
holding his hands till he “floated” up
beyond their reach, were then made to
take each other’s hands, while still
standing on their chairs in order to strengthen the power by completing a circle of
linked hands. At this point an infra-red flashlight photograph was taken, which
proved to be a picture showing him apparently about to be returned to his chair, but
in the meanwhile “suspended” some distance above it in front of the two ladies’
linked hands. Immediately after the flash, the medium was felt separating the ladies’
hands and taking their hands again himself and a moment later falling downwards
gently into his chair again.
A week earlier on May 7th at the same venue it was reported in Psychic News (May 14th 1938)
by the assistant editor A. W. Austen (unfortunately the last few words of the article quote are
missing) who was present and writing of his personal experience:18
18
.‒There had been two official stenographers for the teachings of Silver Birch (first known as “Big Jump”); the
first was A. W. (Billy) Austen, assistant editor at Psychic News. Austen had been with the paper since its
inception in May 1932, and would later become its editor. The first book, Teachings of Silver Birch, was issued
in March 1938, edited by A.W. Austen, with a foreword by Hannen Swaffer.
249
SITTERS SEE HIS BODY FLOATING IN THE AIR
“AN unwelcome intrusion of light provided visible proof of the medium’s levitation at
The Link “mass séance” at the Rochester Square Temple, North London, on Saturday.
At previous seances, Colin Evans has frequently been lifted into the air but, as the
sittings are held in the dark, the evidence has hitherto been inconclusive. Sitters have
felt the medium’s feet touching their heads, those sitting on either side of him have felt
their hands raised as he was lifted, until his hands were dragged out of theirs.
But, while these experiences went a long way to convincing those concerned of the
genuineness of the phenomena, other people could quite easily imagine the results to
be obtainable in other ways. Perhaps, for instance, Evans put his shoes on his hands
and touched the heads of the sitters. Perhaps he was able to raise his hands above his
head and give the impression his whole body was being lifted.
DAYLIGHT LEAKS IN
These objections were effectively answered on Saturday. As it was still light when
the seance started, daylight leaked in through the glass in the roof. This fact enabled
me, when Evans was levitated, to see his body floating at a considerable distance from
the ground—I should think about ten feet. Others saw him too.
Before the séance, the medium had put on the soles of his shoes some luminous
tape, so that it was quite easy to follow his movements in the dark. He went up several
times and on one occasion, just as he was coming down, an infra-red picture was taken
simultaneously by two cameras. These pictures clearly show him in the air, his feet
about three feet from the floor, and some distance in front of his chair.
The flash that is necessary to take the pictures always upsets the psychic conditions
to the extent of causing him to fall. On this occasion he came down in the middle of
…”
Below is the full séance report of the above séance attended by Psychic News assistant editor
Billy Austen, and quoted from Psychic News. The report is by the Vice-President and Secretary
of the “Link,” Mr. I. S. Byerley which was published in the Two Worlds May 13th 1938:
“THE LINK” TRIUMPHS AGAIN
300 PEOPLE SEE COLIN EVANS FULLY LEVITATED. MATERIALISATION, SPIRIT LIGHTS,
DIRECT VOICE, INFRA-RED PHOTOGRAPHS TAKEN WITH TWO SEPARATE CAMERAS BY
LEON ISAACS. GRAMOPHONE RECORDS OF SPIRIT VOICES.
Further advances in the scientific control and recording of physical mediumship
were made at the May monthly gathering of the “Link” Association of Home
Circles, held for the third time at the Rochester Square Spiritualist Temple,
Camden Town, London, on Saturday, May 7th. Photographs were taken from
different angles and gramophone records made.
Some twenty-odd people, including experienced investigators, formed an inner
circle, in which sat Colin Evans between two ladies, one a well-known platform
clairvoyante (Mrs. Orme), and the other an experienced psychic investigator, who
250
is also a business woman, proprietress of two important textile and dress-making
firms, while other sitters close to the inner circle included the well-known
medium, Bertha Harris, and an eminent West End consulting physician, and the
Vice-President and Sec. of the “Link,” Mr. I. S. Byerley and Mr. Jay.
Experienced sitters placed immediately behind Colin Evans included the
Assistant editor of a London paper.
Several luminous trumpets and a luminous slate were placed on the floor in
the centre of the circle.
Owing to the large attendance, about three hundred people, and the amount of
space that had to be cleared to make room for the placing and operation of sound-
recording apparatus for making gramophone records of voices, and of two
cameras placed at widely different angles—one directly in front of the medium at
a sufficient distance to take in almost the whole hall, and the other directly to one
side of the medium, at an equal distance, but placing him in profile to the lens,
and of the infra-red lighting apparatus by which photographs were taken, seating
was very cramped indeed, and the sitters in the inner circle, including the medium
were “almost on each other’s laps,” their chairs pressed close together, so that no
movement was possible without the full knowledge and even disturbance of
adjacent sitters, while the second circle of chairs outside the inner circle was
crowded in equally close to the backs of the chairs of the inner circle, again
allowing no movement of any sitter in the inner circle or of the medium to go
unfelt by sitters in the chairs behind.
Unfortunately, recent weather conditions had largely washed away the black
paint which some months before had been put on the glass roof of the Temple to
exclude daylight, and this was only discovered at the last moment. A man was
sent for to restore this, but when the lights were extinguished it was found that a
great deal of daylight came through various patches and streaks of clear glass
that had been left, and a guide during the seance complained that all this white
light pouring right down on the inner circle necessitated a much greater drain on
the medium’s and sitters’ powers to produce the same phenomena and prevented
the production of more and stronger phenomena. As it was, however, this
unwanted light did incidentally serve the purpose of giving visual confirmation
usually not so clearly given of levitation, etc., that occurred in spite of it.
The movement of the luminous trumpets commenced almost immediately the
sitting began (a few minutes later than the advertised time of 7.45 p.m.), actually
during the opening prayer (given by Mrs. Bertha Harris). Then, while the
medium’s and all the other sitters’ hands were controlled, one trumpet. liberally
daubed with luminous paint, was levitated to a great height above sitters’ heads,
and moved freely all over the inner circle and for some distance outside it, as far
as the third row of seats outside the inner circle, and for a long time waved in
time with the singing, etc., and also went in the direction of, and up to, sitters to
whom other sitters asked for it to be taken, tapping several sitters at a great
distance from the medium as well as near him.
Then the trumpet moved towards a sitter and addressed him by what he
recognised as the Gaelic form of his Christian name, and a woman’s spirit, in
251
direct voice, speaking through the trumpet, carried on with him a brief
conversation in Gaelic, which the sitter (a medical man, whose family belong to
the Scottish isles, and who speaks Gaelic, which was the only language spoken by
his grandparents) was able to understand, and reply to, but failed to get her name
through or to identify herself definitely, the trumpet falling as she was making the
attempts. Neither Colin Evans nor any other sitter who could have been used for
this communication has any knowledge of Gaelic or any Celtic language. The
name “Colin Evans,” by the way, is only a platform name, adopted for public
work by this medium, who has no Celtic blood or connections, and has no
knowledge even of Welsh, which might be of help in getting the kindred
Highland Scottish tongue through his mediumship.
On this occasion, strips of gummed paper painted with luminous paint had
been affixed to the medium’s shoes, outlining the shape of the feet, to make
levitation easier off observation for sitters at a distance.
He was several times levitated for short distances from his chair, and then
twice for prolonged periods was bodily levitated to such a height that his feet
were seen to be about twelve feet above the heads of the sitters, where he
appeared to float about for some distance all round the inner circle and outside it
as far as the second or third rows scats, sometimes upright, sometimes it a sitting
posture as if seated on an invisible chair, and sometimes apparently extended in
the air horizontally, his body being visible to a number of people, including the
London journalist already mentioned seated just behind the medium’s chair, when
it came against the gaps in the black paint on the glass roof and showed up
against the daylight filtering through these parts of the roof.
The guides, however, did not allow the flash of light necessary for the taking a
photograph till he was brought down to a safer distance from the floor, when a
photograph was taken showing him suspended in the air some distance in front of
his chair and with his feet some feet above the floor, where he was apparently
suspended for a moment motionless, from the dead-sharp appearance of the
photograph showing no movement in the upper part of his body, though the lower
limbs seem to have been twitching slightly with a slight convulsive tremor
common in the trance state [Photo No.9▼].
A large number of sitters in the inner circle and in seats some distance outside
the inner circle were touched firmly and for appreciable lengths of time, and their
heads stroked and shoulders patted, by materialised hands, while the medium’s
and all other sitters’ hands were controlled and held.
Several attempts were made at visible materialisation, which were partially
successful, the luminous slate being several times raised and moved about in the
inner circle and once or twice carried outside the inner circle to more distant
sitters, to show materialised hands of small child-like form, and an arm in a
sleeve or draping of white gossamer-like shimmering material. The spirit
draperies which, without any clearly seen bodily form, were repeatedly seen by
the light from the levitated luminous slate, were, at sitters’ spoken requests, taken
from one sitter to another in different parts of the hall, and allowed to be felt.
252
The lady seated next to the
medium, who by many years of
business connection with textile
fabrics has a wide expert
knowledge of dress and other
fabric, reported that when
handled by her this ectoplasmic
drapery was quite unlike any
fabric known to her, feeling
more like a very finely woven
fabric of some such substance as
spider’s webs are composed of
than like any silk, cotton, or
woollen texture known to her.
In a position close in front of
and between her and the
medium himself, there was built
up one apparently complete
materialisation, which moved
round from sitter to sitter for a
little distance round the inner
circle, raising the luminous slate
at intervals, but only one or two
sitters were able to see the face
at all clearly, and they were
unable to identify it except as a
clean-shaven face.
Direct-voice messages spoken through the trumpets on this occasion were
more fragmentary and less evidential, in most cases, as to their contents, than on
other occasions when Colin Evans has sat with the “Link”—One woman spirit,
however, called to a “Doris” at some distance in the audience and was claimed.
During the seances of Colin Evans’ circle it is customary to sing secular songs
with a quick, brisk rhythm to keep up light vibrations to assist physical
phenomena, but a request had been made that songs with a war time association
should be avoided. Somebody, however, started singing “Keep the Home Fires
Burning” and almost immediately a trumpet went up into the air and a rough but
very powerful, somewhat Cockney male voice (the clearest in enunciation of any
of the voices produced through the trumpet on this occasion) cried, in tones of
some bitterness and apparent irony, “That’s right, practise it! You’ll need it to
keep you going that extra mile or two when you’re ready to drop, before they
blow you to - - - bits! Practise! You’ll need it, soon enough.”
Spirit Lights
Very striking objective spirit light, first shaped apparently like a small globe
or little “golf ball” seemed at one moment to come from some point in the
medium’s body—rested a moment on his lap and then (while all hands, including
the medium’s, were controlled) floated to a good height overhead, and moved
253
about from sitter to sitter, changing its shape and elongating into various shapes,
strips and tongue-shaped filaments, and heart-shaped parches, and every now and
then, being apparently extinguished to flash into luminosity again a moment later.
This was immediately followed by two objective lights of greater intensity, but
much smaller and more compact form—almost points, like tiny eyes—which
moved about simultaneously with great whirling rapidity, sometimes about three
feet apart, sometimes only a few inches apart and circling about each other like
gnats or fireflies in rapid motion.
Three separate exposures were made in two cameras together each time,
giving six pictures in all; the first a Guide through Colin Evans, described as the
nearest they had ventured or managed to get yet to allowing and enabling a
photograph to be taken showing the actual process of materialisation; the second,
the medium levitated, and the third when apparently no supernormal phenomenon
was in progress, but concerning which, the same Guide said they wished to take
it as part of an experiment which might then be more interesting to them (the
spirit operators who were experimenting) than to the sitters, but he hoped they
would not grudge them the plate used for it! It apparently shows a partial attempt
to transfigure over the medium, by a Chinese Guide was really a Guide attached
to a young medium now in spirit and who was a friend of Colin Evens.
Benedictions
Colin Evans’ French Priest Guide, “The Abbé,” speaking by trance control,
gave a little “sermonette” of apparently a rather reproachful nature to those who
were “prepared to crowd a hall in their hundreds to see a tin trumpet beating time
to a silly tune in the air without physical means, but not more than a dozen or so
of whom would trouble to come if the same amount of power were used to enable
spirit friends to communicate abundantly and clearly through the much easier
forms of mental mediumship” but added: that nevertheless, the physical
phenomena were legitimate and useful, otherwise the spirit operators would not
be allowed and encouraged to co-operate in their production.
The seance was closed with Catholic, Buddhist (or Sikh) and Jewish
benedictions by the Abbé Ram Lal Singh and Rabbi Davids, three controls of
Colin Evans, and the Abbé then ordered Colin Evans to leave the seance
immediately even if other sitters liked to continue a little longer for other
mediumship, Colin Evans was greatly exhausted and faint, attributed to the effect
of the white light coming through the glass roof.
I.S.B.
—~§~—
254
In conclusion:
Given the information published in this issue of Psypioneer it can be seen the sweeping
statements of fraud given earlier in this article referring to Evans levitations need more
explanation. For example in the first quote it states:
“… photographs merely depict Evans jumping into the air. His movement was
freezed by the flash, which he himself activated with that cord, but not entirely,
as his feet are blurred. The next question is then, how that packed crowd didn’t
denounce the hoax?”
But knowledge of infra-red photography is required, and the information needs to be clear
in the case of each photograph e.g., the camera aperture and speed; some of this
information is given in the reports, for any reader with experience in infra-red
photography.
Possibly one of the first to announce Evans’ levitations were simply a man jumping was
the American magazine Life that ran from 1883 to 1972, and stated “Magicians point out
that Evans’ blurred feet indicate that he has simply jumped high into the air.”19
The
photograph used is shown on Photo 7; note Leon Isaacs holding the flash in the left hand
corner of the picture.
The republished information in this article sheds some light on the mediumship of Colin
Evans, especially on the alleged levitations and their photographs. The large séances
given by the Link enabled thousands of people to witness physical phenomenon which
was usually for the few in the home circles. Many testified to Evans’ public mediumship
for example former Spiritualists’ National Union, President Harold Vigurs; he was also
the speaker with Swaffer at one of the meetings.
This article shows:
Evans states that he does hold the camera/flash release and he gives the reasons why.
The lead is evident on some of the pictures. But this lead was not always the camera/
flash; according to the Two Worlds March 25th 1938 “Medium Floats Holding
Microphone.” [Photo 8]
It should be noted that Jack Webber on occasion held the camera/flash release.
Generally the mediums/guides I have looked at, referring to infra-red or normal flash
photography, were in full and complete control of the flash in some way.
The photographs are criticised as Evans feet are blurred, but this is not always correct.
We can note in photo’s 3 & 8 this is not the case.
Reports state the levitations were performed in complete darkness, so the sitter saw
nothing. But it should be pointed out that the articles reference Evans: had put on the
19
.‒See LIFE page 35 “London Medium snaps His Own Levitation”:—
http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=Tk8EAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA35&dq=%22COLIN+EVANS%22+MEDIUM&hl=en&sa=
X&ei=Wf09UcOkD-
G57AaPlIDgAg&ved=0CEoQuwUwBA#v=onepage&q=%22COLIN%20EVANS%22%20MEDIUM&f=false
255
soles of his shoes some luminous tape, so that it was quite easy to follow his movements
in the dark.
Note also The Link “mass séance” at the Rochester Square Temple, North London on
May 7th 1938 where Psychic News assistant editor A. W. Austen stated: “As it was still
light when the seance started, daylight leaked in through the glass in the roof. This fact
enabled me, when Evans was levitated, to see his body floating at a considerable distance
from the ground—I should think about ten feet. Others saw him too.”
Furthermore in the Two Worlds report it states: 300 People See Colin Evans Fully
Levitated. On photo’s 1 & 9 it appears as stated in the report and by comparing old
photographs we can confirm the man directly behind Evans chair is A. W. Austen.
These re-published reports do not show Colin Evans as genuine, any more than him to
be a fraud. As it appears there were no controlled investigations into his psychic abilities
and mediumship, questions will always remain, even about simple matters like, was the
medium searched before or after the séance? And were the sitters searched (e.g., the inner
circle)? If, or not Evans was escorted during his stay at the Temple; or if he had access to
the hall before and after the séance etc.
Being dressed in a three piece suit for his séances is unusual given the heat which
would have been generated with so many people in such close proximity. We can note in
the reports, that the inner circle where Evans sat was on occasion very crowded, as can be
seen on photo 9. It would be difficult for him to blindly jump and land in a small area
without injury to himself or the sitters, given the article quote:
“seating was very cramped indeed, and the sitters in the inner circle, including
the medium were “almost on each other’s laps,” their chairs pressed close
together, so that no movement was possible without the full knowledge and even
disturbance of adjacent sitters, while the second circle of chairs outside the inner
circle was crowded in equally close to the backs of the chairs of the inner circle,
again allowing no movement of any sitter in the inner circle or of the medium to
go unfelt by sitters in the chairs behind.”
I have found no authoritative reports directly challenging Evans’ mediumship except
for some possible concerns over the technical production of a photograph. It was noted at
the beginning of this article “February 11th issue of the Two Worlds further reports of
séances were emerging of Colin Evans with the medium “floating over sitters’ heads in
his aerial trips round the room,” and the paper published probably the first photograph of
Evans being levitated during a séance … the photograph published in the issue is of very
poor quality.” It was this photograph which prompted an article in the Two Worlds on
April 29th 1938 pages 260 & 266, by Dr. R. A Watters, Sc.D which is published below
with the photograph:
256
Concerning Infra-Red and Ultra-Violet Rays
REFERRING to an infra-red ray
photograph, published in The Two
Worlds, issue of February 11th,
1938, an article in the March 11th
issue of the same journal says: “The
infra-red ray used for taking
photographs is not really safe or
suitable for mediumistic phenomena
of a physical order, except with
many precautions and safeguards.”
The article goes on to say that “The
wavelength the guides worked on
for phenomena was about 2,000
angstrom units, and the infra-red in
use was somewhere between 7,500
and 9,000. Much more interesting
work could be done with greater
safety if photographic experts could
produce photographic emulsions to
work at a wavelength of at least
20,000 angstrom units, and with a
screen to transmit no limit below
that wavelength.”20
SAFEST WAVE LENGTHS
If, as the guide says, the safest wavelength for photography is about 20,000
AU., one is immediately prompted to ask whether or not there may have been
an error, typographical or otherwise, in the guide’s purported statement, for if
the guide has been misquoted due to a typographical error, it seems obvious
that he was trying to say that since mediumistic phenomena occur at 20,000
A.U., it is much safer to try photography with light or approximately the same
wavelength; but if there has been no error in the report, then the statement
made by the guide should be most carefully investigated.
If the guide was correct, then phenomena that occur by virtue of light with
wavelength of about 2,000 A.U., which is the beginning of the far ultra-violet,
should be photographed with light rays of about 20,000 A.U., which is in the
invisible infra-red. The light previously used in these experiments was, as I
understand it, between 9,000 AU. and 7,500 A.U. Since the red portion of the
spectrum is in the neighbourhood of 7,600 A.U. to 6,500 A.U. (depending
upon the observer), it is evident that there was some dim illumination in the
seance-room, due to the infra-red generators, if the minimum wavelength
was7,400 A. U. The intensity of the light would depend, of course, upon the
number of burners in operation.
20
.‒The Two Worlds, March 11, 1938, page 149: “Infra-red Ray Photographs Criticised by Spirit Operator.” The
Two Worlds, February 11, 1938, page 81: “Floating Medium Photographed at Seance: Infra-Red Ray Camera.”
257
Since the guide requested that the wave length be changed from 7,500 A.U.
to 20,000 A.U., it is evident that his request will be criticised by some on the
grounds that the wavelength requested does not furnish sufficient illumination
for visual observation. If, however, we assume that the published photograph
is genuine, then the argument that darkness is desired for questionable
purposes is invalid, for the simple reason that it can be said that photographs
had been actually taken in red light at 7,500 A.U. A request, therefore, for a
change of wavelength is not objectionable, provided, of course, there were-
enough lamps in operation in the first place to provide visual confirmation of
the pictured levitation, thus ensuring the validity of the photograph. It is
permissible, I think, to raise this criticism, because a study of the published
photograph suggests that only enough infra-red rays were used to ensure
minimum lighting of the seance-room, which, if true, means that with a
minimum wavelength of 7,500 A.U., there was scarcely enough light in the
room for visual confirmation of the levitation as pictured in the photograph. If
this reasoning be correct, then the validity of the photograph is open to
question; for not only was there insufficient illumination for visual
confirmation of the phenomena, but there was no evidence put forth to ensure
that the plates or films were always handled in the presence of witnesses, or
that the photographic work in the seance-room was under the supervision of
more than one photographer. In recording a phenomenon as important as the
levitation of a human body, it is very desirable that no detail be overlooked
which could possibly leave any doubts in the mind of the reader.
For an infra-red ray photograph of the type published to be valid. I should
say that (a) there should be enough light in the seance-room for the sitters to
visually confirm the phenomena; (b) that if the photograph must be made in
the dark, then the plates or films should be bought, manipulated, and processed
in the presence of witnesses; (c) that all photographic procedure in the seance-
room should likewise be conducted in the presence of capable witnesses,
otherwise the photograph is open to question. It is not a question of accusing
anyone of dishonesty, it is a matter of conducting the experiments in such a
careful manner that neither the medium, sitters, nor investigators can be
accused of error or fraud—unconscious or otherwise; for photography in the
dark is as open to suspicion as are the phenomena themselves!
ULTRA-VIOLET RADIATIONS
Assuming that no error was made in the article published in the March 11th
issue of The Two Worlds the guide’s statement that “The wavelength the
guides worked on for phenomena was about 2,000 angstrom units . . . ” is, it
seems to me, of some importance. It is not quite clear what the guide meant by
this statement, but in view of the fact that living organisms have their own
spectra, which includes ultra-violet radiations, it might not be amiss to include
an hypothesis based upon certain inferences which may be logically deduced
from the guide’s statement, in the hope that it will stimulate the “Link”
investigators to look further into the matter with a view to learning more
about the modus operandi of mediumship.
258
There are many different kinds of radiation depending on the wavelength.
The shorter the wavelength the more energy is contained in a given unit of
radiation. Infra-red rays do not contain enough energy to effect ordinary
chemical reactions. Ultra-violet rays can produce chemical reactions, as can
also visible light, particularly in the blue end of the spectrum. Since, therefore,
it is possible for visible light to produce chemical effects which may be
undesirable, it is not as difficult to understand why it is preferable for a
seance-room to be illuminated with a dim red light.
It is a well-known fact that in the presence of certain gases visible light will
produce photochemical effects quite as readily as will ultra-violet: a Wilson
cloud-chamber filled with hydrogen iodide plus hydrogen makes an excellent
medium for the observation of the photochemical effects of light. Because of the
instability of many substances in the presence of light, it might be supposed that
while visible radiations are undesirable to the seance-room, the presence of ultra-
violet rays indeed would be out of the question, that is, if there is anything to the
contention that light is harmful to mediumistic phenomena.
Light of 2,000 A.U. is, as has been said, in the far ultra-violet; it is capable of
producing chemical reactions, and it is readily absorbed, even in a few
millimeters of air. If the guide meant to infer that light of this character could be
produced at will for the production of mediumistic phenomena, the inference is
rather far-fetched; but if he meant to convey the idea that he could impress the
medium’s organism in such manner as to cause him (the medium) to react to his
(the guide’s) thoughts and impressions, then the inference is that the guide
assumes control of the medium’s brain-function through the product of that
organ’s oxidation, which process results in the generation of ultra-violet
radiations of about 2,500 A.U. to 1,990 A.U. Oxidation in living matter produces
its own spectrum: beginning at about 20,000 A.U. is the infra-red, it extends
through the visible spectrum into the ultra-violet. down to something like 1.990
A.U.; hence, when the guide stated that for phenomena a wavelength of 2,000
A.U. was employed, his statement was not without some foundation in fact.
If, then, we agree that the guide operates on a wavelength of 2,000 A.U., still it is
not clear why he has chosen the product of oxidation rather than the phenomenon
of oxidation itself; for oxidation, as is well known, controls the organs’ functions.
Oxidation produces radiant energy, that is, ultra-violet, visible and infra-red
radiations; the ultra-violet radiation, control the organs’ chemical activity; the
chemical phenomena control the electric potential or, cellular structure; the electrical
potential controls the activity of protoplasm; protoplasm controls the manifestations
of cellular life; the growth, health, and cellular function determine the well-being or
the organ; the proper growth, development and functions of the organs determine the
activity of the organism; the health, functions, proper physical and psychical
relationship, together with the co-ordination of the organism’s physiology determine
the behaviour of the organism as a whole.
259
To account for the phenomenon of oxidation Crile21
has postulated a new
atom, which he has called a “Radiogen,” a discussion of which would serve no
purpose here; but since a variation of any factor cited in the above paragraph
may, either singly or in conjunction with another, promote oxidative changes in
one or more organs, it is plain that if it were at all possible for the guide to in
some way affect the short-wave radiations of the organism, he would be in a
position to affect decidedly the oxidation of, let us say, the brain, regardless of
the “Radiogen”—or better, perhaps, in spite of it! If this hypothesis were proved,
then it would be shown that a guide contacting the brain’s radiant energy in such
manner as to alter its power to produce photochemical effects would in fact so
alter the organ’s function as to make it come under the domination of the guide,
thus making it possible for him to use the medium’s body and brain to achieve
whatever results he might desire.
Although the above hypothesis is founded on fact I do not suggest that it is by
any means the correct one; but since the guide has given what appears to be
definite information regarding his point of contact with the medium for the
production of phenomena, and since it is one of the few times that an apparently
definite statement has been made that can be connected up with definitely
established physiological facts, certainly the statement is worthy not only of
mention here, but the Link investigators should press their investigations with
utmost vigour; for they may be able to uncover new data., capable of laboratory
verification, which would indeed give a new impetus, to mediumship.
—~§~—
21
.‒Crile, G. W., “The Phenomena of Life.” Pp 71-77.
260
“The Link”—The Association of Home Circles &
“The Noah’s Ark Society”—for Physical Mediumship
—~§~—
NOAH ZERDIN
1889-1972
When in April, 1927, a
terrible disaster robbed me
of my dear wife and the
mother of my seven
months’ old baby, life to
me became valueless,
purposeless.
An atheist from the early
days when I began to think
for myself, death to me was
the end, without a glimpse
of hope. My loss was
complete. My dear love
was dead, and death was
the end. – N.Z.
Noah Zerdin was born into a strict orthodox Russian-Jewish family in 1889. A month
after his wife Bertha’s death in 1927, with a few intimate friends and relations, he carried
his own investigations into Spiritualism at his own home, without any help or assistance
from any professional medium or Spiritualist resulting in his conviction of spirit return
and the development of his home circle. Within a few years he began pioneering a general
awareness and the safe practice of physical mediumship, a form of mediumship generally
restricted to home circles. Around 1930, Noah began to exchange reports of his home
circle with those of Harold Chibbett; the following year in 1931 Light published an appeal
in its March 21st issue:
HOME CIRCLES-AN APPEAL
Sir,—A group of private circles, sitting for physical phenomena, would like to get
into touch with other home circles for physical phenomena, for the purpose of
exchanging reports and pooling experiences for mutual benefit.
Will those interested please communicate.
32, Sandringham Avenue, N. ZERDIN.
Merton Park,
Wimbledon, S.W.20.
261
The Link—the Association of Home Circles, was founded by Zerdin and Chibbett, and it held
its first Conference in 1931. This represented 21 home circles, and the following year it
increased slightly to 26. The new association was no doubt boosted by Hannen Swaffer, when
on Sunday January 3rd 1932, more than a thousand people attended the Marylebone
Association at the Queens Hall, London to hear Swaffer speaking on the subject of “home
circles”—he said:
“… it was in such circles that the strength of the spiritualistic movement was to be
found. That very evening, there were probably 100,000 circles sitting in this country,
most of them quite unknown except to the sitters—their existence not even suspected
by the people next door or in the flat below. It was in these gatherings that really
convincing proof of Survival was to be found. Public clairvoyance was necessary,
but it could do little more than arouse the interest and curiosity of the people who
heard it, as intimate details must be withheld.”
By the third Conference held on October 15th 1933 in London it had reached 156 affiliated
home circles (1934 - 187 home circles). Chibbett was then Hon. Secretary, (providing it is
the same gentleman). Chibbett is referenced in the “Encyclopedia of Occultism and
Parapsychology,” by Gale Research Inc., edited by Leslie Shepard (third edition) which
states: 22
Founder of The Probe, a pioneer British group of investigators of psychic and
occult phenomena, Chibbett was born February 19, 1900, in England. He was a
member of the first London science-fiction club and a friend of Eric Frank Russell,
whom he met in 1942 and with whom he shared an interest in Fortean phenomena.
Chibbett spent some fifty years meeting occultists and collecting data on unusual
phenomena. At his own expense he maintained a postal chain letter to spread
information on Forteana, and during his investigations he met such famous
individuals as occultist Aleister Crowley, psychical investigator Harry Price, and
Kuda Bux, a fire walker. His correspondents included scientists and occultists.
He suffered from ill health for some years, and died February 23, 1978, after a
heart attack.
In 1934 the Link published a booklet on The Modern Home Circle, by Zerdin; later in 1957 a
more comprehensive booklet was produced. Zerdin would also publish a booklet entitled
Spiritualism in a Nutshell (third enlarged edition 1952).
22
.‒Originally taken from: Encyclopedia of Occultism by Lewis Spence, published London 1920 & Encyclopedia
of Psychic Science by Nandor Fodor, published London 1934, substantially revised by Leslie Shepard and
supplemented by new material. For more on Harold Chibbett see:—Tom Ruffles blog – Preserving the Archives
of Psychical Research:—http://tomruffles.blogspot.co.uk/2013/11/preserving-archives-of-psychical.html
Lis Warwood also notes: Just to confirm the information: Harold Stanley W. Chibbett was born 19 Feb 1900
(GRO Births Mar Q 1900 Islington 1b 353). He married Lily M Walters in 1929 (GRO Marriages Sep Q 1929
Islington 1b 545). Died GRO Mar Q 1978 Enfield 12 0748.
262
In 1960 Noah retired from the Link due to poor health; he died in March 1972. His cremation
service was conducted by SNU Minister Maurice Barbanell, editor of Psychic News and the
Two Worlds.23
In a home circle in Ilkeston, Derbyshire on April 25th 1990 it is said:
“The people sitting in attempt to communicate heard an independent voice
message (heard apart from any of their member’s speaking), that urged those present
to form an organization specifically devoted to the promotion of physical
mediumship and the development of mediums in whose present physical
mediumship occurs. The voice identified himself as Noah Zerdin, …”24
The message had been given on the anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the Link. The
Noah’s Ark Society for Physical Mediumship was begun by Robin Foy and the other
members of the circle formed the first committee. The Noah’s Ark monthly Newsletter, first
appeared in August 1990, and January 1991 saw its first Seminar, a one day event at the
Sleep Inn at Nottingham, Derby with over 70 delegates attending. Their first AGM followed
in April 1991. The Society had early success by June of this year when membership had
passed 500 Associate Members, and around 150 Member Circles internationally.
The Society Chairman, Robin Foy, built a séance room in the cellar of his home at Scole,
Norfolk which was completed in February 1992. The séance room was dedicated by holding
a séance for the committee with the physical medium Stewart Alexander who later became
President of the Society.25
Scole would become the focus of some astounding documented
investigations involving senior members of the Society for Psychical Research asking to
observe, test and record what took place. See Psypioneer 2008 for an exclusive report by Dr
Alan Gauld A sitting at Scole.26
The Noah’s Ark monthly Newsletter became The Ark Review in 1998; some of the original
material is still available on-line.27
The final double issue of the Ark Review was
November/December 2004 and the Society closed.
[NAS history is taken from the societies “An Introduction”]
23
.‒Lis Warwood notes: Noah Zerdin’ died in Mar Q 1972 Sutton 5e 636. His date of birth is given as 24 Oct
1888. There is a marriage for him to Bertha Goldesgeyme in 1923 (GRO Mar Q 1923 Southwark 1d 172a). She
died in a fire in his furrier business in 1927 (GRO Deaths Jun Q 1927 Pancras 1b 38), and a second marriage Sep
Q 1935 Westminster 1a 1679 this time to Golda Goldesgeyme, Bertha’s younger sister.
24
.‒Noah’s Ark Society for Physical Mediumship:—http://www.answers.com/topic/noah-s-ark-society-for-physical-
mediumship
25
.‒Stewart Alexander would hold various positions in the Society starting with Archive Officer. For more
information on the Noah’s Ark, and physical mediumship see Stewart’s book An Extraordinary Journey:—The
Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart Alexander; this is available at Amazon with the “Look Inside”
feature at:—http://www.amazon.co.uk/Extraordinary-Journey-Memoirs-Physical-Medium/dp/0955705061
The book is reviewed in Psypioneer: Volume 6. No 11. November 2010:—Stewart Alexander’s Journey – Book
Review – Leslie Price:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
26
.‒Sitting at Scole 24th Jan 1997 – Monty Keen, Donald West, Alan Gauld, Robin and Sandra Foy, Alan and
Diana. See Psypioneer: Volume 4. No 7. July 2008:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.7July08.pdf
27
.‒The Noah’s Ark Society home page:—http://homepage.ntlworld.com/annetts/ark/index.htm
263
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages
294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan the Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ – a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback
ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry
H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45 Psypioneer references by
Leslie Price pages 39-42:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009.
ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-056667-
1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
264
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
