{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v10_n12_dec_2014.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V10 N12 Dec 2014","mylang":"de"}
331
F
—~§~—
332 – Conan Doyle, Houdini, Rinn, Geller: and ‘Paranormal Powers’ – Garth
Willey
341 – D. D. Home and Darkness – David Fontana
342 – Fairies should be seen but not heard of – Nandor Fodor
346 – Kidnapped by Fairies – Nandor Fodor
351 – The College of Psychic Science – Change of name – Brigadier Roy
Firebrace
353 – Physical Mediums in the USA 1950 to 1996 - Gerald O’Hara
354 – The Prime Minister – Grace Cooke
364 – Leslie’s Seasonal Quiz
365 – Some books we have reviewed
366 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
Psypioneer would like to extend its best wishes to
all its readers and contributors for the festive
season and the coming New Year
PSYPIONEER
JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 10, No. 12: December 2014
332
Conan Doyle, Houdini, Rinn, Geller
And ‘Paranormal Powers’
By Garth Willey
This article began with reconsideration of an occasionally contemplated study by the
Psypioneer team of the historic origins of “The Psychic Press” and an attempt to
follow not only the baton of proprietorship but also the publications made under its
banner and imprints. The current owner is the J.V. Trust. And the first proprietor of
the name The Psychic Press was, of course, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (ACD) when he
set it up as the publishing house aspect of his Psychic Bookshop, Library and Museum:
but once one enters that portal, there is a wealth of trails and intrigue to side-track the
interloper!
On 9 December 1925 ACD had occasion to write the following letter to the editor of
The Daily News1
regarding criticism which had been levelled at the authenticity of the
physical phenomenon behind the of production of ‘wax gloves’2
on display in the then
recently opened Museum below the Bookshop:
The Psychic Museum
SIR, – The article by your representative upon this museum is so genial that I
should be churlish indeed if I were to take serious exception to it.
In it he couples my name with Sherlock Holmes, and I presume that since I am
the only begetter of that over-rated character I must have some strand of my
nature which corresponds with him. Let me assume this. In that case I would
say (and you may file the saying for reference) that of all the feats of clear
thinking which Holmes ever performed by far the greatest was when he saw
that a despised and ridiculed subject was in very truth a great new revelation
and an epoch-making event in the world’s history.
There are many more now who would subscribe to this opinion than a few
years ago, and I am convinced that a very short time, at the rate of its present
progress will bring about the considered comprehension of it on the part of the
whole human race.
1
Letters to the Press, Arthur Conan Doyle, 1986, edited and introduced by Gibson & Green, pp312-4.
2
SNU Britten Memorial Museum, Booklet I, Spirit Wax Moulds, Paul J Gaunt, 2012: What are Spirit
Wax Moulds? “If a hand or foot is dipped into melted paraffin-wax and withdrawn, a thin layer of wax
adheres to the appendage and creates a thin glove-like waxen mould. The thickness of the mould is
increased by repeated alternate paraffin-wax and cold water immersions. It was generally claimed by
Spiritualists that a human hand or foot cannot be withdrawn from the waxen mould without distorting
and rupturing it, especially if fingers are crossed or interwoven. Spiritualist mediums have demonstrated
that a full or partially formed materialised spirit could produce such a mould by using their ectoplasmic
limbs. Once the mould was complete, the appendage could simply be removed by dematerialising it;
thus leaving a fragile, but detailed mould of their hand or foot.
333
My great difficulty with inquirers who come to my museum is that often they
know nothing of the subject – worse than nothing in many cases, for they may
be filled with prejudices and misrepresentations. Then in a few minutes I have
to try and convey to them the elements of a great science. Fancy a man coming
to a geological museum who knew nothing of the science and imagined that he
was competent to correct the curator upon the order of the fossils. That is a fair
analogy to what is a constant experience.
To show the untenable nature of the views which they put forward I will take
those of your correspondent concerning the experiment which produced the
original Geley gloves. Let us take the facts as recorded in the Journal of the
Institut Metapsychique, which is the organ of that body – a scientific and not a
spiritualistic institution in Paris.
First of all we will take the fact that the report of what occurred was signed by
Charles Richet, Professor of Physiology at the University of Paris, Gustav
Geley, who was the head of the Institute, and of European reputation, finally by
the Count de Grammont, an experienced investigator, none of the three a
professed Spiritualist.
They observed what occurred under a fair red light, and all were agreed as to
their observation. Their scientific reputation depended upon the truth of their
statement. Now I ask your representative for a fair answer to this question.
Were these three men deliberately and senselessly lying? I will assume, as he is
a sane man, that his answer is no.
Then the only alternative is that they were deceived. Let us see if this is
credible. They had locked the door, and as the room was their own (I know it
well, and it is in a basement) there was no secret entrance.
When Kluski, who is a Polish banker, had sunk into a trance, and when the
ectoplasmic figure was formed from him in a fashion already recorded and
photographed on many occasions with other mediums, it was asked to dip its
hand into a pail which contained warm paraffin. All the observers saw it do so,
and controlled the medium at the same time.
When the wax had encrusted the hands of the phantom it was asked to
disappear. It did so, leaving the wax gloves which had formed over its hands
upon the table.
And now comes the point which your correspondent has overlooked, and which
is fatal to his theory of impersonation. The wax gloves, as anyone can see for
themselves, are in one solid piece, and are much narrower at the wrist than
across the hand. How, then, could the hand have been withdrawn save by
dematerialisation inside the glove. No one has ever yet suggested any feasible
way in which this could have been done.
To show the care taken by the researchers, Geley had put cholesterine in the
pail of wax. An independent chemist analysed a portion of the glove and
334
reported cholesterine. This, of course, is proof positive that the glove was not
brought ready-made into the room.
Impressions were taken of the spirit hand and of that of the medium, with the
result that a certificate was obtained from M. Bayle, of the Paris police, that
there was no resemblance.
The experiment was repeated with various sitters, Mr. and Mrs. Hewat
McKenzie being among those who obtained the gloves at the Psychic Museum.
Some 28 impressions were taken in all on different occasions. Is it to be
supposed that in every case these observant circles were unable in a red light to
see that a stranger had come through the locked door and was walking about the
room?
It is a foolish thing to be too credulous, and it is an equally foolish thing to be
too incredulous. The balanced judgment holds its poise between.
I can well understand that a reporter may find it impossible to attain in half an
hour the experience and knowledge which 38 years of work have given to me.
That is natural. But it is not natural or reasonable that a novice who was not
present should ascribe to fraud or folly events which were observed and
guaranteed by some of the first intellects of Europe.
ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
—~§~—
Harry Houdini, in ACD’s presence in America in 1923, had proclaimed that he could
do anything which a medium had ever done. I don’t know of any public attempt
Houdini may have made to replicate the phenomenon of ‘wax gloves,’ but he certainly
made a valiant attempt to find a way to do so… at least to be able to replicate the
exhibition of wax gloves, let alone replicate the physical phenomenon of producing
them before reliable witnesses. Houdini’s long-time pal and fellow (amateur)
conjurer/magician, Joseph F Rinn,3
wrote of it many years later.4
The following is the 2 page chapter5
he wrote regarding the production of wax gloves:
WHILE Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was lecturing here in 1922, Houdini paid
me a visit and, in the course of our conversation, said: “In talking with Doyle
about the wax gloves mentioned by Richet and others as having been produced at
3
See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_Rinn and http://www.skeptic.com/eskeptic/13-01-30/ He was born in
New York 31 July, 1868 of Irish parents and his year of death is shown in Wikipedia as 1952, but both
as 1962 and as 13th October 1952 on another website
http://www.geniimagazine.com/magicpedia/Joseph_Rinn Presumably he died 1962 since Searchlight was
published 1954. He was born 1868 so he was either 84 or 94 when he died (and we are still working on
ascertaining which date is correct). Comparatively, Houdini was born 1874 – 6 years Rinn’s junior –
and died 1926, aged 52.
4
Searchlight on Psychical Research, by Joseph F Rinn. London, Rider & Co, 1954 (revised edition of
footnote 6).
5
Searchlight Chapter 36, pp278, 279.
335
séances through psychic power, I asserted that they had been produced through
fraud. Doyle challenged my statement and dared me or any other magician to
produce similar hands by trickery.”
“Doyle is quite gullible,” I
replied.
“I’m not so sure of that when it
comes to the wax hands,” said Houdini
in a serious tone. “I’ve tried and failed
to make them. What do you know about
that stunt?”
“About everything necessary to
produce them, Harry,” I replied, as I led
him into a laboratory I had in my office.
“Well, I tried at ﬁrst to make one
by putting my hand in heated wax—and
look at my hand,” said Houdini
ruefully.
“I’ll bet you put your hand in the
wax without soaping it,” I said
laughing.
“Yes,” said Houdini, “I did, but I know better now. I tried tying a cord to
my ﬁnger and pulling it through the wax on the back of my hand, but I could
never get my hand out of the cast without breaking it.”
“Well, Harry, forget those old methods; they’re not used now. They
produce wax casts now with rubber gloves.”
“With rubber gloves, eh?” said Houdini, as he looked at his burnt skin. “I
wish I had known that.”
“I was going to make a wax hand for
you, as, fearing I might some day be
challenged to do the trick, I have all the
paraphernalia here, but I had better explain the
method to you and let you practise making
them. The rubber glove must be filled with air
to duplicate a hand. Fill in the part of the glove
at the wrist with a solid piece of wood with a
hole in it, so that with a bicycle pump you can
ﬁll it with air. Put a peg in the hole to keep the
air in. Dip the glove in the hot wax several
times to give it a body, so that it will not
collapse when you dip it in cold water, and let
the air out of the glove.”
Joseph F Rinn
336
“But such a cast would be a straight hand,” said Houdini, after a moment’s
thought, “and Doyle’s pictures show a clenched ﬁst.”
“Oh, that’s easy also,” I said. “Instead of ﬁlling the glove with air, use a
syringe and ﬁll it with hot water. Then, after dipping the glove in the hot wax
several times, let the hot water out, and while the wax cast is still soft, you can
press the wax ﬁngers into any position you wish. After that, dip it in cold water,
and you are all set with a perfect cast of a clenched ﬁst.”
“I can fool Doyle easily with that stunt,” Houdini replied. “Oh, no I can’t,”
he added despondently, “for Doyle had photographs of many unclenched hands
that showed perfect ﬁnger-prints of the spirit or medium.”
“Well, what of that? I know that Albert Welde, a Chicago engraver, had
perfected a method of engraving whereby he can duplicate the ﬁngerprints of
anybody perfectly.”
“But nobody could fake ﬁnger-prints on a wax cast,” protested Houdini.
“For a mystery man, Harry, you’re quite dumb,” I replied, with a laugh. “If
you make a mould of a hand in dental wax or in plaster of paris, it can easily be
transferred to a wax cast.”
“But you couldn’t get your hand out of such a mould without breaking it,”
protested Houdini.
“You could if you made a mould of half your hand at a time, ﬁrst the palm
side and then the back-of-the-hand side. Join the two halves together and seal the
cracks. With that mould any rubber manufacturer could make you a rubber glove
having on it all the ﬁnger-prints.”
“I get you. What a medium you’d make!” said Houdini admiringly. “Just
wait until Doyle gets back, and I’ll have the laugh on him. He certainly is an
easy mark for any trickster. Sir Arthur still believes what Dr. Crawford wrote
about Kathleen Goligher’s psychic powers, in spite of the fact that Dr. Fournier
d’Albe exposed her as a fraud. I met him in England in 1920 and had a letter
from him to-day. I brought you a copy, as it may be of use to you some day
when that business of yours permits you to ﬁnd time to write about your
experiences with psychic fakers.”
Dr. Fournier d’Albe’s letter read as follows:
“Kingston-on-Thames,
Oct. 10,
1922.
Dear Houdini,
Yours of the 26th ult. just received. Yes, the Goligher legend has lost its
glamour. I must say I was greatly surprised at Crawford’s blindness.
Sincerely yours,
D’ALBE.”
337
“When was the nearest time in your career, Harry,” I inquired, “that you were
close to being defeated?”
A grim look appeared on Houdini’s face and he replied: “I’ll never forget the
agony I went through in one test in Europe. A group of locksmiths got together
in an endeavour to trip me up. They constructed a lock without a keyhole, and it
could not be opened with any jemmy I possessed. They had me sweating for
hours trying to get out of my bonds, and I thought I was licked. Sometimes a
performer gets a lucky break, and that time I got mine. In my struggle to release
myself, the lock, without any help from me, sprung open. Of course I got credit
for opening it.”
—~§~—
Rinn had struck up a friendship with Ehrich
Weiss (a.k.a. Houdini) when they met in 1889
as members of the Pastime Athletic Club in
New York City. Rinn, being Captain of the
Club, its champion sprint runner and 6 years
Houdini’s senior, undoubtedly would have
mentored (as we would refer to it these days)
the talented 15/16 year old. And, apart from
personal fitness and strength, they both had an
interest in magic.
Rinn had witnessed many of the spiritualistic
‘goings on’ – good and bad mediumship and
the shenanigans of fraudsters – of the 1880s
era, including the declining years of the Fox
sisters; and he would have broadened
Houdini’s awareness of these matters.
Amongst the extensive documentation of Rinn’s experiences and views given in
“Searchlight” – he was an inveterate diary-keeper and scrapbook-er of documents,
newspaper cuttings, photos, etc. – there is a wealth of information relevant to the
development of the American Spiritualist Movement. It is well worth reading, but with
a rather jaundiced eye to Rinn’s scepticism!
It will also be observed that Joseph Rinn was an earnest but egotistical and arrogant
fellow. In an SPR Review of an earlier edition of Searchlight,6
W H Salter gave a
pretty good assessment of Rinn’s character and how he became so disenchanted by all
that he witnessed that he became extremely cynical. I’ve no doubt Rinn’s character
rubbed off onto Houdini who himself also became not only most egotistical and
arrogant, too, but an enigmatically complex character to say the least!
Rinn’s vernacular account (above) of how he helped Houdini with his attempts to
reproduce the wax gloves phenomenon demonstrates his personality and clearly shows
6
Sixty Years of Psychical Research: Houdini and I among the Spiritualists, by Joseph F Rinn, New
York, Truth Seeker Company, 1950. Reviewed in 1951 JSPR pp 431-438 by W. H. S.
338
he continued as a friend and confidant for Houdini through 37 years until Houdini’s
death.
The final statements of the Searchlight Chapter given above, whilst not at all relevant
to wax gloves, have been left in because the last disclosure is an interesting
circumstantial indicator that Houdini had paranormal powers – as strongly suspected
by ACD and Hewat McKenzie.7
Compare that last paragraph with words written by
Uri Geller in his 1975 autobiography:8
There was a bicycle in our garage that my stepfather promised to give me as a
bar mitzvah present when I became thirteen. I used to long for it, to be able at
least to cycle around the big parking lot next to the hotel, where there were no
cars and I would be close enough to the hotel to be safe. But there was a big
combination lock on the bike, and I was not allowed to ride it.
But the temptation was too strong. One day, I said to myself: ‘If I can bend
keys and tell what my mother is thinking or has done, or move watches or
clocks, I’ll bet I can open that lock!’ It was an exciting thought. I couldn’t
resist it. I tried the lock several times, but it wouldn’t open. Then I
concentrated very hard on the lock for about two minutes. I tried it again. It
immediately opened. I still remember the feeling of pulling the lock open it
was amazing.
I sneaked the bike out of the garage and tried to ride it. I must have fallen
ﬁfty times, but I ﬁnally got the knack, and I had this wonderful feeling of
freedom. Of course, it wasn’t long before my stepfather found out I had
opened the lock and was using the bicycle. He was absolutely amazed that I
had found the combination for the lock. He didn’t ask me how I did it; He just
said, “Well, I don’t know how you opened it, but as long as you have, you can
have the bicycle.’
I guess I was lucky to have such tolerant parents. This was perhaps the ﬁrst
time that I had put the powers, whatever they were, to what you might call a
practical use, as mischievous as it was. There was much more of this to
come—sometimes, as with the bicycle lock, when I tried deliberately to do
something, and other times when I would have no intention of making things
happen, but they would anyway. In either case, I would be reminded of the
fact that things were happening that were very far from normal, and this was a
condition that was to stay with me for the rest of my life.9
Could Houdini, whilst not having conventional psychic gifts, particularly those
regarded as physical phenomena mediumship, have had paranormal powers
similar to Geller’s?
7
J Hewat McKenzie: Spirit Intercourse – Its Theory & Practice, 1916, Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton
Kent & Co, pp 86-7.
8
Autobiography Uri Geller: My Story, 1976 edition, Hamlyn Publishing Group, p115.
9
Autobiography Uri Geller: My Story, 1976 edition, Hamlyn Publishing Group, p115.
339
“The Magician Annual, 1909-10” contained an autobiographical article “Harry
Houdini” by Harry Houdini – and about 10 years ago, I found that article available on
the internet… but regrettably I cannot find it there now. However I did take a few
notes and extracts for a paper I was doing on Houdini at the time. My notes
concerning his early life from that autobiographical article were:
Worked as a ‘Jack of all trades’ and became apprenticed to a locksmith.
Police brought man in handcuffs with key broken off in lock. Locksmith could
not get open and told Ehrich (Harry) to cut them off. After breaking half a
dozen hack-saw blades, Harry picked the lock (how could he with a broken off
key stuck in it?) – using a “basic principle which I employed in opening
handcuffs all over the world. Not with a duplicate key, which seems to have
been the only way others had of duplicating my performance.”
In other words, is he saying they could not employ his method because the “basic
principle” he used was of a mental concentration nature: i.e. paranormal powers which
others did not seem to have?
1893, at age19, he acted the part of an old man in a play. During rehearsal, he was
unable to remember a single line; but when the show opened:
“strange to relate, I was the only one who knew his part perfectly!”
Did he have help from ‘other sources’, perhaps not recognising it as such?
That year in St Louis, cold and with no money, he saw a discarded packing case in a
crowded street:
“no police officer would permit me to break it apart in so crowded a
thoroughfare, so I conceived a method of taking it noiselessly apart, and used
this same method when I presented the packing-case mystery for the first
time.”
This was a year or two later when, after escaping from a jail (using his padlock trick)
they laughingly roped and nailed him into a linen packing case and challenged him to
escape – which he did. No pre arranged confederates or even practice, planning other
than the method he had used to noiselessly dismantle his firewood box! ….and so
commenced his reputation.
Did magic, clowning and a ‘second sight act’ with Mrs Houdini through until 1900
when his trunk trick eventually brought him his first fame and fortune. He had offered
to do his handcuff trick for £1 per week extra but it had been rejected. Why???
Maybe because they suspected genuine paranormal phenomena!!! But Houdini’s
blinkered mind could not accept that it was not HE, HIMSELF, performing the feat.
The normal modus operandi when Houdini performed his escape stunts precluded the
audience from seeing what he was doing; he was inside a crate, a tank or behind a
curtain or an illusory trick was employed. But, in contrast, one occasion when he
340
opened a padlock in full view is narrated by Conan Doyle in a paragraph from his
“The Riddle of Houdini”:10
Handcuffs might have been made of jelly, so easily did his limbs pass through
them. He was heavily manacled at Scotland Yard, and placed behind a screen
from over which a shower of manacles began to fall until he stepped out a free
man. These things he could do in an instant. When I was lecturing at the
Carnegie Hall in New York, my wife and Houdini walked down some side
corridor after the lecture in order to rejoin me. They came to a padlocked
door, and my wife was about to turn back. To her amazement, her companion
put out his hand and picked off the locked padlock as one picks a plum from a
tree. Was that a trick, or are all these talks about sleight of hand what Houdini
himself would call “bunk” or “hokum”?
And the last accusation of “hokum” – goes to Conan Doyle! As he concluded after 38
pages of building his case in “The Riddle of Houdini”:
Be his mystery what it may, Houdini was one of the most remarkable men of
whom we have any record… He had many outstanding qualities, and the world
is poorer for his loss. As matters stand, no one can say positively and finally
that his powers were abnormal, but… there is a case to be answered.
GW
—~§~—
Harry Houdini and Arthur Conan Doyle
10
The Edge of the Unknown – The Riddle of Houdini. John Murray, 1930, October 1930 reprint pp 24-
25
341
D. D. Home and Darkness
Introductory Note by LP: David Fontana, who died in October 2010, made many
contributions to psychical research. The remarks below appeared in his response to a
book review in the Journal of Parapsychology.
Correspondence – David Fontana – JP Spring 2006 vol. 70:
Home seems to have been without
parallel, but the point is often
ignored that semidarkness did in fact
play a signiﬁcant part in his work. In
virtually all the Home séances
reported by Crookes in the SPR
Proceedings and in his papers in the
SPR archives, the sittings were held
in the evening and by candlelight and
ﬁrelight (see, e.g., the collection of
Crookes’s reports compiled by
Medhurst, Goldney, & Barrington,
1972). The Home sitting that
Crookes described as “the most
exciting and satisfactory meeting . . .
I have ever known” (p. 157 – that of
April 12, 1871) took place in
complete darkness. The same
emphasis upon semidarkness is true
of the Home sittings reported by
Lord Adare (later the Earl of
Dunraven; Dunraven, 1924) in which
details of lighting are given. In
addition, the Home materialisations
reported by Lord Adare all occurred
at night and in the absence of
artiﬁcial light. Speculations as to
why darkness or semidarkness
appears to assist the production of physical phenomena abound but without clear
conclusions, although it is perhaps worth noting that some of the activities in
nature — such as the germination of certain seeds — also require darkness.
—~§~—
342
Fairies Should Be Seen But Not
Heard of
Nandor Fodor.11
Had Arthur Conan Doyle
heeded the advice that fairies
should be seen but not spoken
of, he would have saved his
reputation from the reflection
that the fantastic story of the
Cottingley fairies cast upon it. In
folklore or in romantic stories
fairies cut wonderful ﬁgures and
the Fairy Godmother—whether
considered a Jungian archetype
or not—is beloved by all of us,
but try to prove that fairies really
exist and millions of people will
shake their heads in compassion.
The author of Sherlock Holmes
did make such a try in the
Christmas number of the Strand
Magazine, of London, in 1920
and in a subsequent book, The
Coming of the Fairies, in I922.
He boldly stated that the series
of incidents set forth in his book “either represent the most elaborate and
ingenious hoax ever played upon the public or else they constitute an event in
human history which may in the future appear to have been epoch making in
its character.”
A heroic declaration, indeed! The background was furnished by two
children, 10-year-old Elsie Wright and Frances Griffith, 6, in a small village
called Cottingley in the summer of 1917.12
The two girls consistently claimed
that they were seeing fairies and gnomes in the woods. Borrowing their
father’s camera they took two snapshots in the woods, allegedly for the first
time in their life, and got some astonishing photographic support of their
stories.
The first photograph showed Frances with a group of four fairies dancing
in the air before her. The next showed Elsie, seated on the grass, with a quaint
gnome dancing beside her. The fairies appear to be a compound of the human
and of the butterﬂy, while the gnome looks more like a moth. Under
11
Quoted from Between Two Worlds first published 1964 pages 190-194.
12
Cottingley Fairies & images see: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cottingley_Fairies
Nandor Fodor
343
magnifying glass, the hands of the fairies seem to be ﬁn-like and the beard of
the gnome is an insect-like appendage.
The publication of these
photographs created a sensation,
promptly followed by the accusation
that they were faked. However, expert
examination could discover no
positive evidence of tampering with
the negative. When Edward L.
Gardner, of the Theosophic Society of
London (who first called Conan
Doyle’s attention to the story),
presented the girls with a good
camera, some more pictures were
obtained of leaping, ﬂying fairies and
a fairy bower. The latter—something
between a cocoon and an open
chrysalis lightly suspended amid the
grass with several fairy forms about—
was declared to be beyond the
possibility of faking. But attempts to
secure more photographs at a
subsequent period resulted in failure.
Elsie Wright passed the pubertal age
and with that, it was said, she lost the
power that may have helped the fairies to “materialize” in her presence.
Conan Doyle thought that the fairies represent a separate line of evolution
and noted that children often claim to see them; which was factually
established by Dr. Evans-Wentz in Fairy Faith in Celtic Countries, in 1912,
10 years before Conan Doyle’s book, by a record of 102 first-hand cases in
which living individuals claimed to have seen these legendary creatures.
I can subscribe to fairy visions both from my analytic and my
parapsychological experience. One of my patients from Boise, Idaho, stated in
all earnestness that she had seen fairies in her childhood. They were tiny
people, running up her extended palm, dressed like human creatures. She took
them for granted and used to tell them all she learned in school that day.
Nothing could persuade her in later life that the experience was not real.
In England I used to have a friend who organized a Faery Investigation
Society.13
He was the late Capt. Quentin C. A. Crauford, R.N., a man of
considerable scientiﬁc acumen combined with a mystic disposition. Lady
Molesworth was the President, and the program of the society was to
accumulate knowledge and to classify the various orders of nature spirits.
According to Crauford, research of this kind was much like making friends
with the wild creatures of the woods.
13
Later known as the Fairy Investigation Society. Relaunched in 2014, with a new survey of fairy
experiences planned. See: – http://www.fairyist.com/
344
A spiritualistic touch could be added here from a statement of “Feda,” the
child control (infantile regression?) of Mrs. Osborn [sic] Leonard,14
a famous
trance medium:
Yes, they do exist. They are the nature spirits and there are many
classes of fairies. Clairvoyance is needed to see them. They belong to
another vibration. They don’t have quite the same soul as we do. But they
have spirits. All forms of life are used again. Nature spirits don’t die like
us. Some are created out of earth or fire or friction. They are all activity
and movement.
The honorary secretary of the Faery Investigation Society was herself a
trance medium by the name of Mrs. Claire Cantlon.15
I have interviewed her
in my journalistic days for the Sunday Despatch and she picked for me out of
the amazing letters that the society had received this priceless statement:
I was staying at an old house in Gloucester, and the garden at the back
ended in the forest of Birdlip Beeches which covers part of the Cotswold
Hills. It was before the days of the “shingle,” and I had washed my hair
and was drying it in the sunshine in the forest, out of sight of the house.
Suddenly, I felt something tugging at my hair and I turned to look.
A most extraordinary sight met my eyes. He was about nine inches
high, and the most dreadfully ugly, dreadfully misshapen, most wrinkled
and tiniest mannikin I have ever seen.
He was the color of dead aspen leaves, sort of yellow brown—with a
high, squeaky voice. He was caught in the strands of my hair. He was
struggling to escape, and he grumbled and complained all the time, telling
me I had no right to be there, troubling honest folk, and that I might have
strangled him with my hair. Finally, be freed himself and disappeared.
I mentioned my experience afterwards to a professor of Bristol
University. He was not surprised and told me that Birdlip Beeches was
one of the few places left where there were fairies, and no one could go
there because of it.
I enjoyed the story and was even more delighted when Mrs. Cantlon added:
I need not go to strangers for testimony. My house and garden in
Putney are overrun by fairies and gnomes. The other day, Robin, my boy
of ten, ran to me in great fright. He thought there was a pig in the room. It
14
Should be Osborne Leonard.
15
In the January issue we will be looking at Claire Frances Cantlon who was accused under the
Vagrancy Act of “professing to tell fortunes”, and Miss Mercy Phillimore, secretary of the London
Spiritualist Alliance, for “aiding and abetting”. Sir Oliver Lodge, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle along with
Dr. Hector Munro gave evidence in support of the facts of psychic science.
345
was a fat gnome, sitting on the chair, looking very cross and grunting. A
few days after I heard the noise myself. It was a blend between the
growling of a dog and grunting of a pig. I thought it was the dog going at
the cat. Last week I saw the gnome. Just as I was putting out the light, I
noticed a queer shape trying to climb up the blind cord and fall with a
fearful ﬂop. He glared at me, for I had an impulse to laugh, and vanished.
June, my 11-year-old daughter, who is very psychic, saw some little
time ago a gnome in a circle of light, sitting on the knob of a bedpost and
hammering at a ring. He wore a cloak and had a long, white beard.
Needless to say, I was fascinated by this extraordinary story. I thought of
Andrew Lang who considered fairy belief “a complex matter from which
tradition, with its memory of earth-dwellers, is not wholly absent,” though he
was more inclined to consider the survival of fairy belief to “old imaginings of
a world not yet dispeopled of its dreams.”
So let us have more of these dreams.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, musician, singer, elocutionist, later a well
known inspirational speaker and medium, quotes in her Nineteenth Century
Miracles (New York, 1884) a compatriot of mine, Mr. Kalozdy, a Hungarian
author on mineralogy and teacher in the Hungarian School of Mines.16
He was
a kind of folklorist and had collected many narratives of knockings in
Hungarian and Bohemian mines. He and his pupils often heard these
knockings. The miners take them for signals of the kobolds, a warning not to
work in a certain direction. The materialized appearance of these kobolds was
seen by Mme. Kalozdy, an authoress, in the hut of a peasant called Michael
Engelbrecht. Lights the size of a cheese plate suddenly emerged; surrounding
each one was the dim outline of small human ﬁgures, black and grotesque,
ﬂitting about in a wavering dance and then vanishing one by one. Such visits
were announced to Engelbrecht by knockings in the mine.
A pretty story, with the suggestion of a psychic element. Going back
further into the past, we come across increasingly great wonders. The great
authority on fairies was Robert Kirk, M.A., whose MSS, The Secret
Commonwealth of Elves, Forum and Fairies, is dated 1692. In a 1933 edition
we read of women who had been taken away to nurse fairy children. The prize
story, however, is that of a midwife from Sweden. Her husband, Peter Rahm,
a Swedish clergyman, made a legal declaration on April 12, 1671 that a little
man, swarthy of face and clad in grey, begged for help for his wife in labor.
Peter Rahm recognized him as a troll, blessed his wife and begged her in
God’s name to go with the stranger.17
“She seemed to be borne along by the
16
See Psypioneer: Volume 5. No 12: December 2009: Spirits of the Mines – Emma Hardinge Britten: –
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5%2012December09.pdf
17
Peter Rahm story is repeated: Readers will excuse the repetition here and later in the two accounts
quoted from Fodor.
346
wind. After her task was accomplished . . . she was borne home in the same
manner as she had gone.”18
This story takes us back right into the mediaeval lore of fairies that were
said to be responsible for teleporting people, kidnapping them and holding
them prisoners in a fairy mound and permitting them, ﬁnally, to escape after a
supernatural lapse of time.
Hartland suspects that the idea of the supernatural lapse of time in Fairy
Land was invented by the Catholic Church to frighten people from
unhallowed contacts. I have written a chapter, Kidnapped by Fairies, in my
book, Mind Over Space. In it I developed a totally different idea. It is based on
the symbolism of the Fairy Mound or Fairy Ring. I consider it an excellent
representation of the pregnant uterus. He who is teleported by the diminutive
creatures living in the underground kingdom, is reduced to their size, which is
anywhere within the size of the fetus. The enduring feasting, dancing and
merry—making in which he joins is also descriptive of the life of the unborn,
for whom everything is provided bountifully and without effort on its part.
Time does not exist in the womb. It is a postnatal concept. The unborn, at the
very best, could feel the rate of its own growth as a form of biological time.
Hence, the supernatural lapse of time in Fairy Land is a fetal characteristic,
and the motive for fairy fantasies is a psychological one: projection of strength
unto the weak (the Little People) whom, in our inadequacy, we wish to
dominate, and use thereafter as substitutes for the fulﬁlment of unattainable
dreams of power.
—~§~—
Picking up on Fodor’s reference in his book, Mind Over Space – “Kidnapped by
Fairies”:
In mediaeval Ireland and Scotland fairies had a strong hold on human
imagination. Accordingly, whoever rose up in the air or was mysteriously
carried away had a perfectly acceptable explanation. He had only to claim that
he accidently fell in with fairies, spied on them or for some reason inspired
their enmity. Since such things were believed to happen, he succeeded in
safeguarding his own reason and avoiding accusations of being in league with
the Devil.
The Rev. Joseph Glanville cites a typical case of levitation attributed to
fairies which does justice to the spirit of scientific inquiry by naming some of
the parties concerned:
A butler of a gentleman unnamed, who lived near Lord Orrery’s seat in
Ireland, fell in one day with the good people, or fairies, sitting at a feast.
The fairies, therefore, endeavoured to spirit him away, as later they carried
off Mr. Kirk, Minister of Aberfoyle, in 1692. Lord Orrery, most kindly,
gave the butler security of his castle where the poor man was kept “under
18
From The Science of Fairy Tales, by Edwin Sidney Hartland, London, 1891, p. 39.
347
police protection” and watched, in a large room. Among the spectators
were Mr. Greatrakes himself, and two bishops . . . . Late in the afternoon
the butler was perceived “to rise from the ground, whereupon Mr.
Greatrakes and another lusty man clapped their hands over his shoulders,
one of them before and the other behind, and weighed him down with all
their strength, but he was forcibly taken up from them; for a considerable
time he was carried in the air to and fro over their heads, several of the
company still running under him to prevent him receiving hurt if he
should fall.”19
This case shows a good deal of agreement with ecclesiastic levitations. For
transportation let us quote Robert Kirk, M.A., the great authority on fairies.
Writing of a man with second sight, he says:
His neibours often perceaved this man to disappear at a certane Place, and
about one Hour after to become visible, and discover himself near a Bow-
shot from the first Place. It was in that Place where he became invisible,
said he, that the Subterraneans did encounter and combate with him.20
John Aubrey gives the magic word which accomplishes the miracle. A
predecessor of Lord Duffus was transported to the French King’s cellar and
was found there asleep with a silver cup in his hand. Brought to the king, he
told the story that the day before he was walking near his house in the Shire of
Murray when
he heard the noise of a whirlwind, and of voices crying Horse and
Hattock (this is the word which the fairies are said to use when they
remove from any place) whereupon he cried Horse and Hattock also, and
was immediately caught up and transported through the air by fairies to
that place where, after he had drunk heartily, he fell asleep and before he
awoke the rest of the company were gone, and had left him in the posture
wherein he was found. It is said the King gave him the cup which was
found in his hand, and dismissed him.
The correspondent who sent the story to Aubrey interviewed Lord Duffus
and was told that
there has been, and is such a tradition, but that he thinks it is fabulous,
and this account of it His Lordship had from his father, the present Lord’s
Grandfather. There is yet an old silver cup in his Lordship’s possession
still, which is called the Fairy Cup, but has nothing engraven upon it
except the Arms of the Family.21
19
Sadducismus Triumphatus, 1668 p. 131.
20
The Secret Commonwealth of Eves, Fauns and Fairies. Ms. dated 1692, 1933 edition.
21
Miscellanies, 1721. P. 158.
348
Robert Kirk writes of having spoken to several women who claimed that
they had been taken away to nurse fairy children in Fairy Land. From Sweden
comes a remarkable account of such a case. According to a legal declaration
by Peter Rahm, a Swedish clergyman and husband of a midwife, made on
April 12, 1671,
a little man, swart of face and clad in grey, begged for help for his wife in
labor. Peter Rahm recognized him as a Troll, blessed his wife and begged
her in God’s name to go with the stranger. “She seemed to be borne
along by the wind. After her task was accomplished . . . she was borne
home in the same manner as she had gone.”22
Glanville mentions that Robert Kirk, the chronicler of the fairies, himself
was, in the end, carried away by them. Kirk died in 1692 at the age of 51. His
tomb, in Sir Walter Scott’s time, was to be seen in the east end of the
churchyard of Aberfoyle, but his body was said to be absent. According to the
story told by his successor, the Rev. Dr. Grahame, in his Sketches of
Picturesque Scenery, Kirk was walking on a dun-shi, or fairy hill, and fell
down in a swoon which was taken for death. After the ceremony of a seeming
funeral
the form of the Rev. Robert Kirk appeared to a relation, and commanded
him to go to Grahame of Duchray. “Say to Duchray, who is my cousin as
well as your own, that I am not dead, but a captive in Fairyland; and only
one chance remains for my liberation. When the posthumous child, of
which my wife has been delivered since my disappearance, shall be
brought to baptism, I will appear in the room, when, if Duchray shall
throw over my head the knife or dirk which he holds in his hand, I may be
restored to society; but if this is neglected, I am lost forever.” True to his
tryst Mr. Kirk did appear at the christening and was “visibly seen”; but
Duchray was so astonished that he did not throw his dirk over the head of
the appearance, and so to society Mr. Kirk has not yet been restored.23
The fairies also are said to be responsible for the vanishing of Merlin, the
wizard, said to have been the son of an elf or fairy, and of King Arthur.
Neither of them was to see death.
Thomas of Erceldoune, called the Rhymer, a 13th century Scottish poet, is
the hero of a similar legend. His romance with the elf queen apparently is
based on a poem which may have been his genuine work but, according to the
most widely accepted opinion, is a translation of a French original. At any
rate, the story grew into a legend, according to which Thomas encountered the
fairy queen under the Eildon Tree, which stood on the easternmost of the three
Eildon Hills.
22
Edwin Sidney Hartland: The Science of Fairy Tales, London, 1891, p. 39.
23
Sir Walter Scott: Demonology and Witchcraft, pp. 21-22.
349
Having got him into her power, she took him down with her into Fairy
Land, where he abode, as he deemed, for three days, but in reality for
three years. At the end of that time the lady carries him back to the
Eildon Tree and bids him farewell. He asks her for some token whereby
he may say that he has been with her; and she bestows on him a prophetic
tongue that cannot lie, and leaves him with a promise to meet him again
on Hauntley Banks.
Here both the old ballads and the older romance desert us; but if we may
trust Sir Walter Scott’s report of the tradition current in the neighborhood,
Thomas was under an obligation to return to Fairyland whenever he was
summoned. Accordingly,
while Thomas was making merry with his friends in the tower of
Erceldoune, a person came running in, and told, with marks of fear and
astonishment, that a hart and hind had left the neighborhood forest and
were, composedly and slowly, parading the street of the village. The
prophet instantly arose, left his habitation, and followed the wonderful
animals into the forest, whence he was never seen to return.24
No supernatural lapse of time is noticed between the disappearance and
reappearance of a person experiencing transportation. But things are different
in Fairy Land. There universal tradition permits such a lapse. The effect is as
if the transported person were shifted in space and time simultaneously.
Instead of being deposited at a distance in the present, he is deposited in a
future time.
How did this idea of supernatural lapse of time in Fairy Land arise?
Hartland’s view is that it is a penalty invented by the Church to frighten
people from unhallowed contacts. My own View is that journeys into Fairy
Land are fantasies of return into the maternal womb in search of Eve, the
bisexual component which Adam had lost in the Garden of Eden when out of
his rib God fashioned a female companion for him.25
The Fairy Mound or Fairy Ring is an excellent symbol for the pregnant
uterus. He who is transported by the diminutive creatures living in this
underground kingdom is reduced to their size, which is anywhere within the
size of the fetus. The enduring feasting, dancing and merry-making in which
he joins also is descriptive of the life of the unborn for whom everything is
provided bountifully and without effort on its part.
Fairies have no power over iron. That is why Kirk’s apparition requested
the throwing of a knife or dirk over his head. The prohibition in the Old
Testament that in erecting an altar of stone to Jehovah no iron tools should be
24
Child: Thomas of Erceldoune, Vol. 1, p. 318, quoted in Edwin Sidney Hartland: The Science of
Fairy Tales, pp. 203-204.
25
The Search for the Beloved, Hermitage Press, New York, pp. 276-280.
350
employed upon it (a prohibition which was observed in the building of King
Solomon’s Temple) originated, in my view, in an unconscious symbolization
by the altar or the temple of the maternal womb, the Holy of Holies of human
generation. In the silence and peace of the womb no instruments are used for
the building of the human body. Hence the use of iron in fairy lore breaks the
prenatal spell, and the captive of the fairies automatically is restored (re-
transported) to human society.
That he is unaware of the passage of time during his captivity is to be
anticipated. Time does not exist in the womb. It is a postnatal concept. The
unborn, at the very best, could feel the rate of its own growth as a form of
biological time. Hence, the supernatural lapse of time in Fairy Land also may
be a fetal element, while the romance with the fairy queen is a fitting
representation of a union with the Beloved whom we lost at that remote
evolutionary period in which the separation of the sexes in the proto-human
had taken place.
—~§~—
351
THE COLLEGE OF PSYCHIC SCIENCE
– CHANGE OF NAME.
Introductory Note by LP: In his book Spiritualism a Critical Survey, (1966) Simeon
Edmunds included a critique of the College of Psychic Science.26
Simeon wrote:
“The London Spiritualist Alliance ceased to exist as such in 1955, when it
became the College of Psychic Science.27
The exact reason for the change is
somewhat obscure….”
In fact, an explanation had appeared in their journal LIGHT at the time, signed by
the president, Brigadier Roy Firebrace. We reprint this below from Light March
1955 LXXV No. 3419:
Editorial:
Psychic Science
ON the proposition of the Council of
the London Spiritualist Alliance, an
Extraordinary General Meeting of the
members has by an overwhelming
majority of votes passed a resolution
changing the title of the Alliance to that
of the “College of Psychic Science.” A
further resolution, amending an article
of our Memorandum of Association to
include a definite provision that the
aims of the Society should include the
study of the subject of survival after
bodily death, was carried unanimously.
It is a big step to change the name of
an old Society but it was only taken
with the object of improving the work
and of enlisting further members to the
study of psychic phenomena and their
meaning.
The word “Spiritualist” has in the eyes of many taken on a religious
signiﬁcance, a standpoint which was never adopted by the old Alliance. The
passing of the recent Fraudulent Mediums Act seemed to conﬁrm in many
26
Psypioneer: Volume 10. No. 03: March 2014: The College on the Eve of Paul Beard’s Presidency –
Simeon Edmunds:⎯http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP10.3March2014.pdf
27
Under that name, the College had only a short existence; it became the College of Psychic Studies in
1970.
352
ways this implication. Members of the Alliance have not in general been
Spiritualists in this sense, although there are some who profess Spiritualism as
a religion. Membership has thus always been open to all, and will continue to
be so. We need the help of all men of good will who are anxious to investigate
both psychic and spiritualistic phenomena, to study them and to find out the
laws under which they work.
Our justification for the use of the term “Science” in connection with
psychic phenomena is that we are convinced that these manifestations are
indeed subject to Law, even though they do not follow the laws of physical
science as known today, but rather belong either to a different order of being
or are in themselves an extension of existing laws. The interest in these
phenomena has greatly grown in recent years and there are men of science
now engaged seriously in their exploration. There is, however, a regrettable
tendency to seek a physical and materialistic explanation for all phenomena, a
disposition towards a mental blackout when investigation produces evidence,
which can be explained on a spiritualistic basis more readily and
understandably than on a purely materialistic basis. In plain language the
spiritualistic concept of survival and communication with the discarnate does
not always receive the full consideration by some investigators which the
evidence warrants.
The College, following on the traditions of the Alliance, holds the opinion
that many cases confirm the belief that the spiritualistic hypothesis is
deserving of equal consideration with the materialistic when psychic
phenomena are being investigated. These phenomena should be studied with
an open mind without the a priori assumption that certain things are
impossible or, to put it another way, “antecedentally improbable”. The task of
the College will be to afford facilities for an individual or a collective
investigation of psychic phenomena to place before enquirers such facts as are
known, so as to enable them to determine according to their own judgement in
which direction the evidence points.
The College recognises that many phenomena can be rightly explained on
the hypothesis of interaction between incarnate minds and does not claim that
it is necessary in all cases of evidence through mediumship to claim discarnate
intervention. The phenomena are many and varied and it is not necessary to
invoke one explanation to cover all of them. True to our aims, however, we
shall seek, by an examination of existing evidence and by research for new, to
study the subject of Survival and Communication, which is so intimately
bound up with any open-minded work in the field of psychic science.
R.C.F.
—~§~—
353
A request from Spiritualist author Gerald O’Hara see page 364 “Books
we have reviewed”:
Physical Mediums in the USA 1950 to 1996
The readership of this Journal is amongst the most knowledgeable in the field
of Physical Mediumship; and yet I see you scratching your heads? Yes, you
will have heard of Ethel Post Parrish and Keith Reinhardt but who else?
The Reverend Dorothy Flexer 1914 to 1996 for one. Dorothy was the founder
of the Sarasota Fl, Shrine of the Master (now the Sarasota Centre of Light)
and an independent Direct Voice Medium of 40 years experience. But who
were her “Great Contemporaries”? An intriguing book by Jeanette Strack -
Zanghi called I Walked with Spirits (pub. Createspace) gives accounts of her
Mother’s and Father’s (Gerda and Eddy Slater) sittings at Camp Chesterfield,
Maple Grove and Camp Silver Belle with a number of powerful Physical
Mediums. Mediums, of whom it has to be said, are unknown outside the USA.
The sittings took place as recently as 1974 to 1992.
In 1972, Dorothy Flexer was able to have built at the Sarasota Shrine a
circular séance room without windows! I am asked to write the biography of
Dorothy Flexer for the 20th anniversary of her passing and I am looking to
place Dorothy in the context of other mediums of her standard.
Can any reader direct me to information on the following, William (Bill)
Donnelly, a Materialising Medium, Warren Smith a Trumpet Medium and
another Trumpet Medium Rev. Virginia Falls. There was Rev Gladys Strohme
a Materialising Medium. There were two Sisters Mildred Curran and Mamie
Brown who were Direct Voice Mediums. To continue, Direct Voice and
Trumpet Medium Sally Jones and the same with a Harold Abrens and again
the same phenomena is reported with Rev Stoelting. There was a
Materialising Medium, Ray Browning. An Apport Trumpet Medium Bill
English. Another Trumpet Medium was Evelyn Bennett and again Direct
Voice and Trumpet Medium Doris James. The names flow on Jim Delbert
(Materialisation), Joe Riley (Trumpet), Ernest Cole (Materialisation) and
Franklin Roberts (Trumpet) and finally Apport Medium Ann Keith.
I have personal connections with the Sarasota Centre Florida and can voucher
for the truth of Dorothy Flexer’s Mediumship; can anyone help throw light on
the twenty one named mediums above? Any information would be
appreciated, I would be most grateful, you can contact me on
gohar2702@gmail.com
Yours truly
Gerald O’Hara B.Sc.
—~§~—
354
THE PRIME MINISTER
Grace Cooke.28
Introductory Note by Leslie Price:
Many years ago I read somewhere that
David Marquand was writing a biography of
Ramsay Macdonald, so I wrote to him about
Plumed Serpent. He replied with great
interest, and went to see Mrs Cooke. In his
book Ramsay Macdonald (1977), the author
quotes Plumed Serpent and says “her
account has the ring of truth” (p.692).
It seems possible that Macdonald was
himself psychically sensitive. He and
Margaret had also lost their youngest son in
1910, to diphtheria. In 1933, Macdonald
writes in his diary “I wandered over Lossie
roads holding the hand of my little boy in
his dark blue jersey. Very saddening.” This
was not some senile delusion, for in 1910 he
had written “Constantly since he died my
little boy has been my companion. He comes
and sits with me especially on my railway
journeys & I feel his little warm hand in
mine.” (Marquand, p.131.)
Unfortunately the present whereabouts of
the Macdonald correspondence with Grace Cooke are not known. We must hope they will turn
up in the archives of the White Eagle Lodge.
—~§~—
WOULD that I were able to tell in vivid words one of the most moving
experiences which have been given to me from the heaven world. Earthly
minds are crude and harsh sometimes when depicting a man’s character,
perhaps because the opportunity is not given to many people to see behind the
scenes. The public concentrates upon one angle of the life of a public man,
and this is often distorted out of all proportion to truth by political, religious or
intellectual bias.
Although I did not meet Mr. MacDonald in life—earth-life—I once made a
beautiful and unexpected contact with him on the higher planes, which
revealed to me a man of advanced spiritual evolution, a great gentleman. I pay
this tribute, for it has been through him that I have been inspired to write for
you memories of my other-world life. I hesitated a long time before deciding
to make this story public, and do so now hoping that it will be sympathetically
received and reverently regarded. May it be the means of helping thousands to
28
. – Taken from the Plumed Serpent by Grace Cooke: Chapter XVII pages 69-80 Published Rider &
Co, London 1942.
Ramsay MacDonald
355
catch a glimpse of the possibility of the loving help and lasting companionship
from those who have passed into the great beyond.
What I have to tell reveals Mr. MacDonald as possessing a deep perception
of the reality of life beyond the grave. It was not so much what he said in his
letters to me which reveal his understanding, but rather his trust and
conﬁdence in the truth and sincerity of the message. He responded to the
appeal of the Higher Self, and always acknowledged my correspondence with
courtesy and appreciation. So many men in a similar position would have
feared to risk the misinterpretation of the public.
From the time the Labour Government took ofﬁce, following the boom
years of I928 and 1929, England was faced with some perplexing economic
problems. It was indeed a stormy sea on which the Labour Government had
embarked, and most of the responsibility and much criticism fell upon the
shoulders of the Prime Minister, Mr. Ramsay MacDonald. Undoubtedly he
was the man chosen by God to demonstrate to the people of Great Britain
certain vital lessons in the economic life of a country, perhaps the one man
who possessed qualities of character essential for the particular burden Great
Britain was destined to shoulder.
When the great slump of I930 was approaching, it was a shock to most of
our countrymen to learn of the declining value of the English pound sterling. I
remember being on a holiday in the French Pyrénées in July 1930, and hearing
with blank amazement the hotel clerk say that they had received information
that the English pound was regarded as so unstable that they must be
extremely cautious. I felt outraged and incredulous—the English currency,
which we had always regarded as impregnable as the Rock of Gibraltar, could
not possibly be unstable or unsound!
One Saturday evening early in
August 1930, when the Labour
Government was in power, I was
entertaining some close friends at
home. We were indulging in the
usual political speculation when
suddenly, and inexplicably, a hush
fell upon the party and we all felt
the presence of an invisible guest. In
the same manner as on former
occasions I felt the gentle inﬂuence
of White Eagle like a radiance
ﬁlling my soul as I surrendered
myself to the spirit messenger, who
had come to speak of grave
happenings in our country. “The
Labour Government is crumbling,”
he said; “great changes are about to
come. A new Government will be
formed, of a character your country
356
has not yet known. It will be neither a Liberal, nor Conservative, nor Coalition
Government, but will be National, composed of chosen representatives of the
people. Ramsay MacDonald will continue as the Prime Minister, and be given
the strength to save your country. Look towards him for wisdom and
guidance, for he is chosen by God and is being inspired by a group of Spiritual
Beings, advanced Souls, known as the White Brotherhood.” Here the voice
ceased. All was quiet, and the party sat on in amazed contemplation of the
grave words they had heard.
In the late news on the following day (Sunday) the country was electrified
by an announcement that the King had suddenly left Balmoral for London, to
consult with the Prime Minister on matters of grave urgency. The country
waited in suspense for the news which followed. England stood on the verge
of the gravest financial crisis for centuries, and the Labour Government was
faced with the unpalatable task of straightening out the confusion.
To restore ﬁnancial equilibrium it seemed the Labour Government had to
impose heavy additional taxation and effect substantial economies. It must tax
people, both rich and poor, and by so doing denounce the principles and
policy upon which it took office. Alternatively, the Government might resign,
and this was the course of action the majority decided upon. It seemed the
only course open to men whose conscience guided them to adhere to the
principles of their party. But to Mr. MacDonald the crisis and the need of his
fellow countrymen, irrespective of party or politics, had the greater claim. His
mission was now beyond the limitations of any party. His country needed all
the wisdom, all the courage and strength of action which was his to give, and
braving the condemnation and criticism of his party he faced the situation.
With courage and determination Mr. MacDonald, together with a few
remaining colleagues, set to work.
Many who before had criticized and condemned were now ready to
applaud—such is the way of men; others, formerly his friends, now called him
a traitor to his party, and hurled the cruellest accusations. He became the
object of bitter attack. Even those compelled to respect his courage and
strength during such a crisis gave very grudgingly of their approval. Some of
his old colleagues deserted him. What bitterness must he have tasted as the
result of the position in which his conscience had placed him, amidst the
condemnation of the very party he had given his life to build up and save! His
position was, to say the least, most unenviable. As the Rt. Hon, Neville
Chamberlain said in Birmingham when he was Premier, it is the man with the
knowledge and the responsibility who has to act, and endure the criticism of
the irresponsible and ignorant.
On August 24th, Mr. Ramsay MacDonald was entrusted with the formation
of the National Government, a fortnight after such a Government had been
predicted by White Eagle! Mr. MacDonald saw where his course lay and
without hesitation took the helm, steering clear of the rocks ahead which
threatened the stability of Great Britain. During those fateful hours he stood
357
above either praise or blame. These are events known to all and are only
restated here because the public memory is short.
To come to more personal matters. During the ﬁrst week of September
I931 I was awakened one morning by the presence of a beautiful spirit woman
standing at my bedside. I remained silent and as still as possible, waiting for
her to speak.
“I am Margaret,” she said. “I want to communicate with my husband.”
“Margaret who?” I asked, still ignorant of her identity.
“Margaret MacDonald,” she replied,” and I particularly wish to get into
communication with my husband. He so needs my help and comfort. My
Guides on this side of the veil have told me that you will help. Please do as I
ask, and write to him as I dictate.”
I was simply nonplussed. In the first place I doubted if a letter from an
unknown like myself would ever reach the Prime Minister, guarded as he was
by secretaries. At that time he must have been the recipient of literally
thousands of letters each week. He would, I thought, have no inclination to
read letters purporting to come from his wife, who had died over twenty years
before. Moreover, up to this time I had been very little interested in politics
and politicians. J. Ramsay MacDonald was to me little more than a name. I
was vaguely aware that he was a widower and had a daughter, or daughters,
and that was all. However, she earnestly begged me to consider her wishes,
said she would return again when I had had time to adjust my mind to the
idea.
I thought long and hard, for it seemed a tremendous task. I was far, far
outside the magic circle and had no political, or any other kind of inﬂuence.
How could I, a nonentity, approach the Prime Minister of England on such an
errand? What would he think? Or, worse still, would the letter ever pass
secretaries who would probably hold up such letters as mine, and who might
jeer at that which to me was sacred! And then a curious incident turned the
balance. Quite accidentally, apparently, I switched on the wireless one
evening soon after the visit of Margaret to hear the announcement that the
Prime Minister was about to make what was subsequently regarded as an
historic speech. It was shortly after the formation of the National Government.
As I sat listening, his voice, and the personality of the man conveyed by that
voice, seemed to strike a queer note of harmony and affection in my heart. I
lost sight of the fact that he was the Prime Minister, and only recognized him
as a man, a very human person like myself—as someone who had known deep
sorrow, great disappointment and, possibly, disillusionment and who was
very, very lonely. I felt that he was a man determined to do his duty, and that
position and place held no attraction for him. It was then that I became aware
of the same beautiful woman standing beside me.
“Do please write,” she urged. “Write as I dictate.”
358
I could withstand her urgent entreaties no longer. I seized pen and paper
and wrote just as she dictated, page after page of an intimate and sacred letter.
My pen seemed to ﬂy across the paper. The wording was not mine, nor should
I have expressed myself as did she. The words were so tender, so intimate, so
intensely for his eyes alone that I felt no copy should be kept by me. I was no
more than her channel, her means of expression, much as a telephone may
convey a vital message. I cannot tell what proof lay in those written words.
There was no attempt to give proof or tests as to identity, as far as I could see.
The proof lay in the intrinsic value of her message—the quality or sufficiency
of Margaret herself which it contained. The truth and validity of her message
depended on how much of her personality, traits of thought and modes of
expression it conveyed to her husband. . . factors which only he could verify.
Nor is it words alone which can convey truth to a soul, but sometimes a subtle
spiritual quality read or sensed between the lines of the written word which
carries its own conviction to the recipient. I could hardly bear to read the
words as I wrote them, for they were not for my eyes. . . .
When at last it was finished I felt spiritually spent. A great power had
overshadowed me, and now had left me; I knew that a mighty effort had been
made to get that letter written. It was passed through to me as a sacred trust. In
spite of my own reluctance, I knew that it must be sent. I prayed for further
guidance and was told to write a short personal note to Mr. MacDonald
explaining how the message had been written, saying that I wrote to him as
from one human soul to another, hoping he would understand and accept the
letter in the spirit in which it was sent. I was further instructed how to address
the envelope, so that the letter would reach him safely and be unopened by
anyone other than himself. In passing, and as a point of interest, I understand
that the letter reached him on or about a special anniversary in his private life,
but this I did not know until afterwards. Had I been he, truly it would have
seemed like a letter from heaven, sent to one who perhaps needed sympathy
and help more than anyone could know; else why had the effort been made
from the beyond?
Then the letter was posted with a prayer that he would receive it safely. I
hardly hoped for an acknowledgment. However, it came without delay . . . a
kindly, appreciative letter, not typewritten, but in the Prime Minister’s own
handwriting, written from Chequers, Princes Risborough, on September 13th,
1931. The letter said that he (the writer) was greatly obliged to me for both my
letter and the messages; he knew but little about these things, and therefore to
them he could say neither yea nor nay. His mind, was, however, open and
receptive. He was prepared to believe, and in any case he confessed to
receiving with happiness everything that made him feel the benign and helpful
presence of the dead. He was grateful, the letter concluded, to those who in
sincerity and in friendliness afforded him that experience.
This was no formal or stereotyped letter of acknowledgment by some
secretary. Mr. MacDonald himself had written. I was at that time blissfully
unaware of what that precious little note meant, beset as he was by a thousand
worries and responsibilities, but on maturer thought I began to realize its full
signiﬁcance. A link had been established between those behind the veil and
359
those still in the darkness of earth. He had said that he was very happy to
receive that communication from Margaret at a time when he needed her
conﬁdence and companionship. The communicating door had been opened by
the Christ love which dwells deep in the heart of every man—that spirit of
Christ which is the common denominator of life, making crooked places
straight and rending the veil of the life beyond. By his letter Mr. MacDonald
had shown a gentleness, simplicity and courtesy which helped in the building
of a bridge between the two worlds, thereby enabling the contact—which
Margaret MacDonald had so earnestly sought—to be established for the
remaining years of her husband’s life on earth.
She continued at intervals to send him the messages, and each time they
were received and acknowledged kindly—one might almost add, gratefully. It
is not permissible to quote, even in part, any of these messages, for they were
wholly private; but, as was subsequently proved by events, they were always
timed to give help and inspiration through difficult periods.
The text of Mr. MacDonald’s letters to me might seem both restrained and
cautiously worded. But I always realized that much more lay behind them
than was apparent. I remembered he was first a Scotsman, a man of
exceptional reserve, unlikely in any circumstances to commit himself by
admitting frankly what his own private views were on such a subject.
Nevertheless, I felt strongly from his letters an unexpressed appreciation and
acceptance of both the messages and my own sincerity. I realized also that he
held a position of enormous responsibility, and one which called for
unsleeping discretion and discrimination. I think that the very fact that he
often wrote personally, penning the letters himself, revealed an understanding
of my motive and his happy acceptance of the messages. Sometimes I wish
that I had kept careful copies of all Margaret said, because prophecies and
points of remarkable evidence were often contained in her later letters, which
points I checked up afterwards from items of news in the daily press. It never,
however, occurred to me at the time that the correspondence would ever be
used to help others and, as before stated, I felt the communications were of so
private a nature that they were hardly my
property.
Looking back now on the correspondence, I suppose it would have made
interesting copy for some newspaper. Had it been published then it might have
done grave harm. Mr. MacDonald himself was doubtless aware of this. It
indicated a great faith in the integrity of the writer that he so far committed
himself as to write so kindly and appreciatively. This I always knew. Because
I wanted to justify his trust in me I have mentioned this correspondence to
very few people, and indeed many years passed before I agreed to write this
story. I do so now believing that it is by desire of my two friends on the other
side of death (Mr. and Mrs. J. Ramsay MacDonald), and that it may bring
inspiration and hope into the lives of many who are lonely and searching for
light.
During the Election of 1931, when the country was in an uproar and doubts
were strong as to whether the Prime Minister would be returned by his former
360
constituency, Margaret sent a reassuring message. The general opinion was
that while the country acclaimed the Prime Minister’s courage in attempting
to retain a Labour stronghold, his chance of success was meagre. The Election
was one of the wildest and most stormy. Margaret’s message was that he
would be returned, but only by a small majority: as events showed, he held his
seat. Even during the overwhelmingly busy period of the election he found
time to pen a postcard of acknowledgment, written from his constituency, and
forwarded via Downing Street. Mr. MacDonald thanked me for my letter, and
asked me to excuse the brevity of his reply, as he was in the full stress and
burden of the Election. The card was signed J. R. M.
Some months passed, and with sorrow I learnt that the great
responsibilities and labours the Premier had undergone were undermining his
health. His eyes were giving trouble. There were, if I remember, several
operations, after one of which he went away to recuperate. His destination was
not revealed. In the following February I wrote to Mr. MacDonald at
Margaret’s request, when he was convalescing at some unknown seaside
resort, to ask if he would let me know where he was, so that I could send to
him direct a message which had come to him from Margaret. I promptly
received a reply addressed from the Headland Hotel, Newquay, Cornwall,
saying that although the writer was still under doctor’s orders and supposed to
see no letters for the present, if I sent my message to him at the address given,
marking it “Private and Conﬁdential”, he would receive it safely and
unopened.
When the message was sent I received a friendly and appreciative picture
postcard from Cornwall. Quite obviously the message had pleased him, and I
venture to hope that Mrs. MacDonald’s letters brought help and comfort in his
illness and partial blindness. I think it was a striking demonstration of God’s
love that just at this critical time of his life, as also of the country’s history, the
gateway between earth and heaven was opened and a messenger sent to give
both consolation and inspiration to the man, and perhaps help to the country. I
write this because the later messages contained many predictions about world
affairs which have since proved correct. They foretold, if my memory is
reliable, the war between the Yellow races, the outcome of the Indian
question, the alliance which would come between England and America, now
in process of fulfilment. A message would nearly always precede some crisis
which called for special effort on the part of the recipient, indicating that the
powers on the other side of death were cognizant of the progress, or
otherwise, of the affairs of the world. I remember how a particularly ﬁne
message was sent to Mr. MacDonald just before he went to Geneva for some
crucial conference in April 1932.
Miss Rose Rosenberg, the Prime Minister’s secretary, wrote saying that
Mr. MacDonald had asked her to acknowledge the safe arrival of my letter
and its message, and to thank me for it. My letter had arrived just as the Prime
Minister was leaving for the Conference at Geneva.
361
A kindly thought, do you not think, to acknowledge my letter at all at such
a juncture?
Many family affairs were referred to in the messages, concerning things
impossible for me to have known at the time but which were subsequently
proved correct by announcements made in the newspapers.
Our correspondence continued for several years.
In November 1931 the Prime Minister’s secretary wrote again to
acknowledge and to thank me very cordially for my letter and its message,
which he was glad to receive.
Some eleven months later Mr. MacDonald himself wrote, saying that after
some delay my letter had followed him to Dunrobin Castle, Sutherland. He
thanked me for writing, and expressed his appreciation of the messages and
his understanding of my purpose and sincerity in thus sending them on to him.
During the years 1933 and 1934 we were receiving teaching from the late
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle regarding his experiences in the beyond. In March
1934 a certain message came through from Sir Arthur which is printed on
page 204 of Thy Kingdom Come.29
Referring to J. Ramsay MacDonald, Sir
Arthur said:
In passing through earth life the ego is, according to his capacity, linked by
a ﬁne “thread” to every phase and plane of spiritual life. We mean this when
we talk of the Harmony of the Spheres, not only the harmony of the spheres
discarnate, but the harmony of all spheres of existence. According to capacity,
so man absorbs from these spheres of spiritual being knowledge—Wisdom (I
prefer the word “wisdom” to “knowledge”), Power and Love, the three
fundamental Creative Life Forces. As man by life and choice aspires, so he
becomes linked to the particular plane or sphere of spiritual activity
wherefrom he receives his food, his sustenance. It is as the child in the
mother’s womb draws life and growth through the umbilical cord; so also is
the spirit of man attached to these centres of spiritual sustenance and draws
his power to think, to act and to be.
To have knowledge of this opens to man’s mind a light to illumine the
darkness of his earthly way.
For instance: I have in mind a politician in the British Government,
destined to accomplish a very important work. His way can be made easy or
remain difficult according to his freewill choice. The choice has been given to
open his mind to the knowledge that he is being reviviﬁed and inspired from
that plane of spiritual activity, already described to you as the first plane of
mental being—the “Halls of Wisdom”. He is shown how he is linked
consciously with that Hall of Wisdom. If he choose to accept this light, his
29
For more information see Psypioneer: Volume 1. No 5. September 2004:–The Final Conan Doyle
Mystery:–http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP5.pdf
362
pathway, instead of being beset by anxiety, fear and difﬁculty, will be
illumined by the light of the Cosmic Christ, and he will accomplish, not
through struggle, bitterness and difficulty, but with ease, with poise and joy,
that work which it is his destiny to fulﬁl.
So it is with every individual, according to his capacity to receive. So God
helps His children.
After some thought I sent to Mr. MacDonald a copy of this book, with the
passages marked, together with a long personal message to him from his wife.
Mr. MacDonald replied from Downing Street, thanking me for my letter and
the enclosure, and expressing appreciation of my consideration in thus
sending the messages. The letter acknowledged the safe arrival of the book,
which the writer would certainly read; the letter concluded, and was signed
“Yours very sincerely, J. Ramsay MacDonald.”
I grew to appreciate these brief and kindly letters and to read into them the
real warmth and feeling I believed their sender meant them to contain. I never
failed to realize the restraint which his position and responsibility enforced.
The story of my experiences with the late Prime Minister would be
incomplete without reference to the work which the Group known as the
White Brotherhood is doing to help forward the cause of peace and goodwill
amongst the nations. A later chapter deals more fully with this subject. For
some years these Groups have been devoted to service for humanity. They are
trained to receive, concentrate and project the power of the Christ Love to
selected men in high political circles, so that the latter may be helped and
inspired by the White Light of Christ to work for the promotion of peace and
goodwill at home and abroad. I wrote to Mr. MacDonald and explained about
the work of the White Brotherhood, so that he could consciously open his
mind to the spiritual rays of power then being directed to him. Mr.
MacDonald answered from Downing Street, thanking me for my letter, saying
how much he always appreciated what I wrote to him and how he hoped that
all good would attend the work which we had just commenced.
I shall always be glad that I acceded to the request of Margaret MacDonald
and sent that ﬁrst letter. Years afterwards I read a beautiful book written (for
private circulation) by J.R.M. as a tribute to his late wife, and realized how
splendid a wife and woman she had been. But then I never doubted that. My
contact with her had shown me her quality, much as the response of the
recipient of her messages showed to me his qualities.
So the years wore on. I watched with a sad heart the tremendous
responsibilities and labour entailed by J.R.M.’s office gradually wearing down
his health and strength, and I was glad when he was able to relinquish office.
My life also had become busier and more strained, so that towards the end
Margaret’s messages became fewer, but never lacked, I believe, affection and
sympathy. In her last message was one sentence which stands out in my
memory: “I shall be waiting for you,” she wrote, “ . . . at your journeys end.”
363
Little did I realize when sending this message how near the journey’s end
the weary traveller had drawn. Nor did this foreboding strike those who read
in the press of James Ramsay MacDonald’s retirement, and learnt that he had
refused all honours or acknowledgment of his great services to his country—
surely a sufficient answer to those critics who had so often asserted that
honour and praise alone had incited him to abandon his former party. We read
that James Ramsay MacDonald had gone for a long sea voyage, “seeking for
rest”, he had said, “for I am greatly tired . . . seeking for rest!” We read of his
sudden seizure, his sudden death.
Then indeed I remembered. “I shall be waiting for you,” Margaret
MacDonald had said, “at the end of your journey.” True: at the end of the
journey. May it be that this wearied man who, I believe, has truly spent health
and strength and finally life itself for his country as any soldier on the
battleﬁeld, found a blest and wondrous reunion in the life beyond.
A few weeks ago I went to my desk and took out a bundle of letters,
already yellowed by time. When I re-read them they brought back so much to
me. I remembered the timidity and even fearfulness with which I had posted
that ﬁrst letter to the Great Unknown, the Prime Minister—and the joy his
letter of acknowledgment, written by his own hand, brought to me.
Thenceforward he was no longer the Prime Minister to me, but a lonely and
bereft man—perhaps a man terribly lonely, to whom my letters—or rather
Margaret’s messages—meant more than anyone can realize.
I re-read the letters one by one, noting how the early “Dear Madam” with
which they commenced, and the “Yours faithfully” ending them gave place to
more friendly and appreciative terms. I noted a sincerity, warmth and
friendliness in those letters—brief as they are—which reveals much to me in
these later days. There are several picture postcards also, views of
Lossiemouth or of the seaside resort to which Mr. MacDonald went to
recuperate after an operation to his eyes. The Lossiemouth cards usually
brought New Year greetings to me. Certainly they were brave letters to be sent
to a stranger whom he had never met, of whom he knew nothing, and who
might have published Margaret’s letters and his replies in the press while he
held office, and thus given his political foes yet another weapon. Of course
such a thing is unthinkable! Only with heart-searchings and after much
thought do I give this to my readers, because I feel that Mr. MacDonald would
wish it done now that it can harm no one and may help many.
Some of my readers may criticize me for making this story public, and to
these I would reply: If the added impetus of a great name can drive home the
message of truth with greater force, then this fact is the reason why the power
of God drew Ramsay MacDonald into the picture.
—~§~—
364
SEASONAL QUIZ
As in previous years, there is one question for each issue, but only eleven questions
this year because of a joint monthly issue.
January
Which Spiritualist organisation was overrun by cats?
February
Who considered Harry Price a first class public entertainer?
March
Who suggested Helen Duncan had a secondary personality who misbehaved?
April
Which medium’s troubles abroad were raised in the House of Commons?
May
What distinguished five motor ambulances in the Great War?
June
Why did a Dutch Spiritualist group call itself Oromase?
July
What was unusual about a recording of Conan Doyle speaking at Camp
Chesterfield, Indiana?
August
Who was the other founder of the Link besides Noah Zerdin; and why is he
otherwise celebrated?
September/October
In what sense did Psypioneer make a new beginning for this issue?
November
What became of the Newcastle Psychological Society, England?
December
What medium’s home in Putney was over run by fairies and gnomes?
Answers in the January 2015 issue of Psypioneer.
—~§~—
365
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price
pages 294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan the Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer
review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press
Publications, England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available
at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ – a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald
O’Hara & Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England
2007. Paperback ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry
Edwards, Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul
J. Gaunt pages 106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by
Barry H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-
945296-50-9, available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45
Psypioneer references by Leslie Price pages 39-42:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After
Death, by Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA,
U.S.A) 2009. ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at
Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by
Barbara Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback
ISBN: 0-06-056667-1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt
pages 9-10:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
366
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the
web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian
friends for hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by
sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.com or “Unsubscribe”
to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
