{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 5292","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n63_oct_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N63 October 1889","mylang":"de"}
No. LXIII.-VoL. IV.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New .Associates .,
Meeting of the Council
General Meeting . . . . . . . .
<lases Received by the Literary Committee
oCorrespondence :-
Mr. Angelo Lewis and Dr. Monck
Mnltiplex Personality
Crystal Gazing •• .. . 0
Do Animals see Apparitions? 00 0 0 0 0
International Congre88 of Physiological Psychology . 0
The Use of Hypnotio Treatment in Insanity 00
Library Catalogne
NEW ASSOCIATES.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
WALWYN, Mrs., 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol.
ASSOCIATE8.
BLUM.;NTHAL, MADAME, 43, Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
BUXTOX, MRS. SYDNEY, 15, Eaton Place, London, S.W.
DEVLIN, RICHARD THEODORE, Poste Restante, Monaco, France.
MEETING O~' THE COUNCIL
PAGII:
.. 187
•• 1U7
•• 188
188·148
•• 148
•• 146
•• 149
•• 150
.. lIll
.. 161
•• 152
A Meeting of the Council was held on July 8th. The President
was in the chair, and the following Members were also present:-
Professor W. F. Barrett, Dr. A. T. Myers, Lieut.-Colonel Hartley, and
Messrlil. T. Earkworth, F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore, and H. Arthur
Smith.
On the proposition of Mr. Podmore, Mrs. Walmyn was elected as
an Honorary Associate.
Three llew Associates, whose names and addresses are given above,
were elected.
Report was made that the rooms not required by the Society had
been let to Mr. H. O. Cresswell, Architect, 31, Spring-gardens, from
Midsummer, at a rent of £25 per annum.
It was agreed that General Meetings should be held on the
afternoon of Friday, the 25th of October, at four o'clock, and in the
evening of Friday, the 29th of November, Oat 8.30 o'clock. It was also
agreed that tea and coffee should be provided at the close of the
afternoon meeting on October 25th, in order to afford more opportunity
for conversation, and for Members becoming better acquainted with
each other.
Digitized by Google
138 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Oct., 1889.
Some other matters ofroutine business were attended to, and the next
Meeting of the Council was fixed for Friday, October 4th, at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town Hall, on
Monday, July 8th, at 8.30 p.m., the President, Professor Sidgwick, in
the chair.
The PRESIDENT made some remarks on the census of hallucinations
now in progress, describing the objects and methods of investigation
and the progress so far made. The number of answers received
amounted at that time to about 1,600. He concluded by asking for
the co.operation of all interested in the work of the Society, whether
as believers or disbelievers in telepathy, stating that he would be glad
to send the necessary papers to anyone willing to help.
MR. MYERS read a paper on" Recognised Apparitions Occurringmore
than a Year after Death," quoting several cases in which the phantasm
conveyed information previously unknown to the percipient, or in
which it was seen by several persons, or on other grounds could not be
classed as a purely subjective hallucination. The paper will appear in
the next number of the Proceedings.
MR. WHITE, commenting on Mr. Myers' paper, objected that he
took for granted the question of a future life, and that the evidence of
intelligent people about ghosts was not more valuable than that of
others, since they were equally subject to hallucinations.
MR. MYERS replied that he did not assume the existence of
disembodied spirits, but that the evidence under discussion went to
prove it, and that the cogency of the evidence was not affected by the
question whether the experiences were hallucinations or not, but
depended on there being some coincidence with objective fact, or other
characteristic, to distinguish them from ordinary hallucinations.
MR. BARKWORTH remarked that though it seemed most probable
that apparitions, even when veridical, were to be regarded as hallucina-
tions and not as objective phenomena, still this should not be too
hastily assumed. We must keep our minds open and not reject evidence,
in whatever direction it might point.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
COLLECTIVE CASES.
The following case was sent to us by Mrs. Wood, of 4, The Avenue,
Colchester, who obtained it in course of collecting answers for the
Digitized by Google
Oct.. 1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 139
hallucination census. A less complete account of the incident was
sent to us in 1883.
U. 4, Collective. [1889]
In 1852, betweeu 8.30and 9.p.m., in either the last week in July, or the first
week in August, on a fine, clear, light:evening, I, (Mrs. C.) then 14years ofage,
and my sister, Mrs. H., then aged 12 years, were shutting a window looking
out on the drive up to the front of our father's house, and on to a large open
lawn; my first cousin, a lad aged 141, was in the next room, in which was a
window with the same view. We three clearly saw the figure of a small
woman or young girl, dressed in white, with a white covering over her head
like a hood, coming acr088 the lawn in front of us, and then, passing through
a field the figure disappeared. Her mode of progre88ion struck us as being
very strange; she made a slight pause occasionally, and then resumed her
fonner pace with a jerk. Her hands were somewhat raised and clasped, but
she sometimes unclasped them, making a movement that seemed like wringing
them. Two old ponies were tethered at some little distance from each other
OD the lawn; she paSlled between them; they were both much frightened and
ran wildly round and round ; this was seen by a fourth person who came into
the room just as the figure disappeared. The ponies were in the habit of
seeing people pass them and never took any notice of strangers or others.
My sister, my cousin, and myself were in good health and good spirits. The
only girl or persOIl of the same stature as this figure living in the nei!(hbour-
bood was the tlaughter of my father's bailiff, and at the first sight of the figure
my cOllsin exclaimed "It must be---ill her night-dre88!" I knew the
girl was not likely to be there at that hour, and on inquiry of her mother
the next morning, we were told the girl was not well and had never left her
bed the previous day. I may add, the figure came from an opposite dh'ection
to that of the bailiff's house.
In the year 1854 my sister and I heard for the first time that there was
an old legend connected with the house and grounds. We were told by a
lady (now deceased) that in a book, giving an account of some of the--
counties, there wasa historyattached to thegrounds of--Hall. This history I
have never read, but I was told that its purport was, that a girl in the reign
of Henry VIII. had been ill-treated, and ill her novice or nun's dre88 dragged
acros" the land and drowned in a lake that had been partially drained, in fact,
was a mere bog, long before my father bought the place.
My sister is living, my collsin is dead. He became an officer in the army,
and when serving in the West Indies (or Honduras), he met with the son of
the gentleman who owned--Hall before my father bought it. This young
man happened to relate the apparition of the nUll to a third person in the
presence of my cousin, and there could be 110 doubt he was speaking of that
which my cousin had ~een.
As the legend refers to a curse invoked by the nun on the po88es80rs of
the land, and as that land has now paBBed out of the p08lle8Bion of our family,
it is not desirable that any names should be mentioned in relating the story,
as a belief in it might cause anxiety and probably diminish the value of the
property. I once related the story to Mr. Justice Wightman in the presence
Digitized by Google
140 JO'Umat of Society for Psychical Research. [Oot., 1889.
of Mr. Matthew Arnold, and the judge croued-questioned me closely, and he
expressed himself to the effect that it was one of the most inexplicable and
yet one of the beat authenticated stories of the kind he had ever heard.
The house was purchased by my father in 1851. We saw the figure in
1852, and never heard of the legend till the summer of 1854. I cannot now
give the date when my cousin saw the BOn of the former proprietor, but it
was several years later. (Signed)--
Mrs. C.'s sister, Mrs. H'I adds:-
"My first cousin . . . was in the next room . . . We called to
him to look at the figure, and he saw just what we did. . . . I have
read the account Mrs. C. has written, and it tallies with my recollections."
G. 184, Collective.
From Mrs. Willett, Bedales, Lindfield, Haywards' Heath,
COpy OF ENTRY IN BoOK.
Bedales, December, 1886.
On Saturday, December lith, about 4, or 4.15 p.m., my eldest child Dorothy,
aged nearly thirteen, was standing in the hall talking to MiBB 8 - , the
schoolmistreBB at Scaynes Hill, when they both saw what appeared to them to
be a little child in a white pinafore running along the gallery, but they heard
no BOund of footsteps. MiBB S---was just going away, and went towards
the garden door. Dorothy, thinking her little cousin, Ralph Bagnell, aged
nearly three, who is now living with us while his parents are in India, was
on his way downstairs from the nursery, and might fall downstairs, went,
expecting to meet him: but neither the child nor anyone else was ill the
gallery, or on the stllirs. Subsequent inquiry in the nursery proved that the
child had not left the room between his going upstairs about 3 o'clock,
and coming down again about 5. Dorothy came into the morning-room
where I was sitting, talking to a friend. She told me what she haei seen as
soon as this friend had left-about 4.30; I asked her for a description of the
child. She said it seemed to have fair hair like Ralph's and had apparently a
dark frock and white pinafore, and ran along the gallery very quickly, only she
heard no sound. I did not understand from her at first that Miss S---
had been with her until this evening (Sunday, December 12th,) when at tea-
time Miss 8-being here, I told her what the child said she had seen,
when Miss S---said "Oh I I saw a little child in a white pinafore run
quickly along the gallery, and mllcIe sure it was Master Ralph; I saw the
head of the child with fair hair, and he had on a white pinafore. It was as
I was standing talking to Miss Dorothy in the hall, just as I was going away,
about 4.15. She went upstairs and I went out at the garden door."
I wroteout this directlyafter tea [i.e., on Sunday, December 12th, 1886. F.P.]
Dorothy has a very great objection now to anything being said about this,
and as I found she was so averse to saying anything if asked, I prevailed on
her to make a note in my book. It is this-"On Saturday, December 11th,
1886, about four O'clock, I was standing in the hall talking to MiBB S---
I looked up and saw, as I thought, R. Bagnell rnn along the gallery. It
had a dark frock and white pinafore on. MiBB S---was just going and
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1889.] JO'Urnal of Society for P8'!Jchical Research. 141
went out of the side door; I went upstairs quite expecting to meet Ralph,
but no one was there. Kate told us he had not been out of the nursery.-
D.M.K.W., NO'/Jember 9th, 1887."
July 25th, 1888.
Dorothy, who bas seen the child I told you about, is the most matter-of-
fact, practical, and unimaginative girl possible. I see you ask me if she has
had any other hallucination. When we were living at the Vicarage, West
Bromwich (Dorothy was, I think, abont five at the time this happened), she
went out of the dining-room to go into the drawing-room to fetch a wool-
needle, but came running back in great alarm, saying she had seen a
"grinning ugly face" looking at her over the top of some curtains that
divided the half from the entrance lobby. I went with her at once, expecting
to find some one had been hiding behind the curtain, but no one was to be
seen, and when she showed me where the face was, I saw at once that no one
could possibly have been up at the top, looking over the curtain-pole, unless
they had been on steps. I asked Dorothy only a short time since again
about this, and she said she should never forget that face, and his horrid
wicked look. At the time, of course, I made light of it, but for a long time
she wonld not go upstairs past those curtains alone-also I remember soon
after we came here in 1881, Dorothy told me she had seen a white figure going
along the gallery; near where she afterwards saw the little child. I did not
think much of this at the time, as it was dusk when she saw it.
Yon ask me how our hall was lighted that December afternoon at 4.15.
It is a very large hall, and at the end is a large bay window running the
whole height to the roof and admitting, of course, much light. I was sitting
in the morning-room at the time, and it was light enough for me not to
require any artificial light-this room faces north, but the hall window is
south-the gallery runs along the north side of the hall.
There have been very curious sights and sounds in this house. Much all
I have wished it I have never seen any thing-but I have twice heard quite
unaccountable noises, like the breaking of crockery. I make a rule now of at
once writing down any of these strange things.
MARY WILLETT.
In reply to a letter from us, asking for an independent account, Miss
S-- writes :-
"St. Augustine's House, Scaynes Hill, Lindfield, Haywards' Heath.
" September 3M, 1888.
" I have not time now to say more than that my account would be almost
word for word the same as that which Mrs. Willett sent you; since she wrote
the account in her journal in my presence directly after the occurrence, and
I saw the copy sent to you."
Afterwards we sent Miss S--- a copy of the account sent by Mrs.
Willett, which she returned with" Quite correct, Eleanor 8-," written
below. In another letter she says: "I am a very ma.tter-ot-fact person,
and never had any hallucination in my life."
Digitized by Google
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1889
UNCONSCIOUS IIIIPRESSIONS REVIVED IN DREAlIIS.
The following account received from Mrs. Bickford-Smith seems to
be a very clear case of an impression, unconsciously received or
forgotten, being revived in a dream. Such latent memory has been
mentioned in some of the discussions in the Procedings as a probable
explanation of certain dreams, and we think that from this point
of view, the following case will be found to have very considerable
interest:-
February 4th, 1889.
On reaching Morley's Hotel at 5 o'clock on Tuesday, 29th January,
1889, I missed a gold brooch, which I supposed I had left in a fitting room
at Swan and Edgar's. I sent there at once, but was very disappointed to
hear that after a diligent search they could not find the brooch. I was very
vexed, and worried about the brooch, and that night dreamed that I should
find it shut up in a number of the Queen newspaper that had been on the
table, and in my dream I saw the very page where it would be. I had
noticed one of the plates on that page. Directly after breakfast I went to
Swan and Edgar's and asked to see the papers, at the same time telling the
young ladies about the dream, and where I had seen the brooch. The papers
had been moved from that room, but were found, and to the astonishment of
the young ladies, I said, "This is the one that contains my brooch"; and
there at the very page I expected I found it.
A. M. BICKFORD-SIUTH.
We received a substantially similar account from Mrs. Bickford-
Smith's brother-in-law, Mr. B. A. Smith, who was a witness of the
trouble taken to find the brooch, both at the hotel, and by sending to
Swan and Edgar's on the previous evening.
The following, though less clearly so, is probably a case of the
same kind. We have the independent account of the dreamer himself,
written two years later, but as it is somewhat disjointed we prefer to
give that kindly sent to us by Miss Ada Hunt, of Pen Villa, Yeovil,
which has the further advantage of having been written at the time.
The following rather remarkable dream took place on the 20th November,
1886. On that day I gave to our gardener, G. Wilmot, his wages, 15s., in a
half-sheet of paper, some letters to post, and two parcels and a note to leave
at various houses on his way home. This was at 6 o'clock in the evening.
. . . About an hour after, the gardener returned to tell me he had lost his
wages. I advised him to carefully retrace his steps and make every inquiry,
but this he did without success; and as it was" fair" night and the town
full of people, he at last gave it up as hopeless and returned to his home
quite a mile distant. During the night he dreamt that he went to one of the
houses where he had left a note, and, crossing the road after leaving it, he
walked into a mud heap, and that there his foot strock the paper containing
Digitized by Google
()ct.. 1889.] J01J,r'TWl Of Society for Psychical Re8earch. 143
the money; the half-sovereign rolled away and the 5s. remained under his
foot. He told his wife the dream, and falling asleep again he dreamt the
same dream again. Early in the morning he went to the place a.nd found
his dream fulfilled to the letter, even to the roIling away of the gold, and
the silver remaining in its place.
He is a most intelligent, truthful man. . .
The gardener's own account differs from t.his in gtvmg fewer
details as to the dream; his account of it is: "I dreamt I had found it
and kicked the half-sovereign off the heap." Miss Hunt thinks that
his nervousness at writing himself made him forget to say that he
dreamt exactly where the money was found. He had so little belief in
his dream that he tossed up as to whether he should go to look for the
money again or not.
CORRESPONDENCE.
MR. ANGELO LEWIS AND DR. MONCK.
To t"e Editor of tile JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL REsEARCH.
SIa,-ln the last number of the Journal you print a letter from Mr. Angelo
Lewis in which occurs the following passage: "One of Dr. Monck's stock
feats was to place a musical-box on the table, and cover it with a cigar-box,
after which it played or stopped playing at command. Suggested explanation,
, Spirits.' Real explanation, that the box ill question did nothing at all, the
BOund being produced by a second box strapped to Monck's leg above the
knee (inside the trouser), and set in motion by pressure against the under
surface of the table."
Now, as you refuse to accept any evidence of spiritual phenomena on
vague hearsay, I think you should equally refuse to accept or print such vague
accusations as this. Does Mr. Lewis mean by "real explanation" that he
himself actually discovered a box tied to Dr. Monck's leg in the way described1
Or, merely, that in his own imitations of the phenomena he uses one
BO tied 1 If the latter, I submit that he bad no right whatever to use the
term "real explanation," or to treat Dr. Monck as an impostor in this
matter. I happen to have witnessed the phenomena myself, and I can
declare positively that Mr. Lewis' ReCount of it is incorrect. The following is
an extract from my notes made at the time: "September 21st, 1877. seance
at Mr. C. Reimers', 6, Manor-villas, Richmond. Present-Dr. Monck, Mr.
and Mrs. Bennett, Dr. Malcolm, Mrs. Firman and sister, Mr. Reimers, Mr.
A. R. Wallace." (The last of an extraordinary series of phenomena is
described as follows.) "A musical box, or rather the working part taken
out of its box, was placed on the table laid on a sheet of white paper. It
then played and stopped when requested, and this took place when I placed
my hand lightly on it. Under these conditions it played and stopped just aa
I desired, Dr. Monck's hands being at a considerable distance on the table.
Each person in succession placed his hands 011 the box and f"" it play or stop
Digitized by Google
144 JO'IJI1"1I4l of Society fOT Psychical Research. [Oct., 1889.
when desired, thus proving that it was not another bo.1; under the table which
played."
On this occasion, then, there was no cigar-box to hide the musical-box and
mume its sound., while the hands of the spectators assisted their eyes and
ears in declaring that the actual box before them played and stopped at
command.
ALFRED R. WALLACE.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
DEAR SIR,-In reply to Mr. Wallace's letter, my informant as to the
musical-box matter was Mr. H. B. Lodge, of Huddersfield., the gentleman
who was the instrument of the crushing exposure of MOllck, in October,
1876. Not caring to rest entirely on my own recollection of facts which took
place 13 years ago, I have submitted Mr. Wallace's letter to Mr. Lodge, who
replies as follows :-
"Your statement as to Dr. Monck's musical-box trick is quite correct.
I put the .cigar-box over the working part of the mnsical-box with my own
hands, and Monck did not get a sound from it till this was done, and even
then only in a very dim light. At first I was puzzled j then it struck me
how it was done, and I was so certain about it that at the end of the seance
I offered the doctor a handsome sum (whether £20 or £50 I cannot now be
certain, but I think the latter) if he would allow me to search him and I did
not find both a duplicate musical-box and a 'spirit hand' we had seen in the
course of the manifestations. I further told him that if I failed to do so I
would not only make him the most abject apology, but would become a
Spiritualist and work for the cause to the very utmost of my power. All the
sitters except myself and one other gentleman were Spiritualists, and they
agreed that my offer was a fair one. In fact, his host (Mr. Hepplestolle)
said to the doctor, 'If you have nothing concealed, why not allow Mr. Lodge
to see for himself 1 We are believers, and we also believe Mr. Lodge to be
an honest investigator,' or something to that effect. The other Spiritualists
present also urged Monck to consent, but instead of doing so, he struck me
in the face, and then rushed up to .his bedroom and locked himself in. After
some time a policeman was fetched, and the uoor burst in j and if it had not
been for an open window and a couple of sheets tied to the waterspout, I
have no doubt some of us would have thought the doctor had been' spirited'
away. The Rev. Dr. Monck had certainly 'Hown,' and without either hat
or overcoat. No doubt he took many things with him. A small box (about
10 or 12 inches by six), which he had brought into the seance with him was
miBSing, and the' hand' and duplicate musical-box used a.t the s4lance would
naturally be on his person j but he left plenty of other evidence behind, for
in two lock-up boxes and a large-sized bath (locked and strapped) we found
scores of things such as 'spirit hands,' 'spirit faces,' , Hoating rods,' , illumin-
ated names,' 'spirit lamps,' and any quantity of white gauze, in fact, all
sorts of things to produce so-called 'mallifestations.' We also found some
60 or 80 keys, some of them being skeleton keys.
"The drum in the musical-box which was supposed to play never mOf)ed, or
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1889.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. 145
if it did, the spirits must have moved it back again to the point from which
it started.
" We made every endeavour to trace the small box which Monck had
carried off with him when he escaped out of.the window, but without effect.
When he was admitted to bail, I went to the railway statioll and saw him
off. He waved his hand by way of 'good-bye,' and when the train had got
perhaps 30 or 40 yards out, he held this very box out of the window,
shook it, and laughed, as much as to say, 'I have done you here, at all
events.'''
The sequel will he in the recollection of most of your readers, or may be
found recorded in the local newspapers. The matter was taken up by the
Huddersfield Superintendent of Police, Mr. Hilton, and after one or two
appearances before the magistrates, Dr. Monck was sentenced (with the
hearty approval of the local Spiritualists) to three months' imprisonment as
a rogue and a vagabond.
So stands the evidence as to the musical-box matter. It is only circum-
stantial, it is true, but amply sufficient, I think, to satisfy auy unprejudiced
person. The charge was clear and precise. A definite assertion was made
that this" manifestation" was produced by means of a duplicate musical-box
on the person of the medium, and he was challenged to disprove it by
submitting to a search. If he was innocent, he had everything to gain and
nothing to lose by doing so. He would not only have pocketed a handsome
money 8olatium, but increased his own prestige, and poured shame and
confusion upon the head of his accuser. He was surrounded by friends and
believers, only too eager that he should justify himself, and pressing him to
comply. Can any sane person doubt that if he could, he would have done
801 Instead of this, he fiies panic-stricken, leaving behind him damning
evidence of habitual imposture, in the shape of a whole arsenal o.f fraudulent
machinery.
Mr. Wallace argues that my explanation is incorrect, because nearly a
year later he was present at a ~llce with MOllCk where an uncovered
musical-box movement played and stopped at command, and Mr. Wallace
adds: co Each person in succession placed his hands 011 the box, and felt it
play or stop when desired, thus p1"O'IJi1'1J that it was not another box under the
eahle which played."
Is this remarkable 1 The wonder would rather have been if Monck, after
the undesirable publicity given to that second box up the leg of his trousers,
had not amended his modus operandi. He must have ~adly wasted those
three months of inforced seclusion, if he did not come fortI1 with a few new
devices for the confusion of the unwary, and probably an improved musical-
box trick was among them. Mr. Walmce's own note shows that he knew all
aboutthesuggested box under the table, and was!prepared for that contrivance;
but probably he was taken in by some device equally simple. "Each person
in succession placed his hands on the box, and felt it play or stop when
desired." Why felt f Obviously because there was not light enough to 866 it
play or stop. Does any man ever put out his hand to.feel whether a thing is
in motion, when his eyes assure him that it is so 7 It is therefore a mere
Digitized by Google
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. [Oct., 1889.
figure of speech to say that" the hands of the spectators &8sisted their eyes
and ears," for their eyes could have had no real share in the matter. With a
far less degree of obscurity than is here indicated, a black silk thread is
perfectly invisible, and the use of such a thread would be amply sufficient (to
anyone having the most elementary knowledge of conjuring expedieuts) to
account for the playing and stopping of the actuRI box on the table.
The only real marvel ill the facts stated is that a gentleman of the
scientific eminence of Mr. A. R. Wallace Mhould, after the overwhelming
exposure of October, 1876, again be found sitting with a proved humbug
like Monck. The fact illustrates the weakest point of the Spiritualist creed:
viz., the willingness of believers not merely to hush up proved fraud, but again
to give credence to the quasi-supernatural powers of thl' imposter. There is
hardly a medium known to fame who has not been detected in flagrant
trickery, but the most scathing exposure does not shake the firm faith of
thorough-going Spiritualists. However grossly the offender may have
deceived others, so long as they themselves have not detected him in fraud
(as they probably would not till the end of time), they still fraternise
with him, "sit" with him, take grave notes of his" manifestations." What
wonder, then, that less credulous persons are chary of accepting their evidence !
ANGELO LEWIS (" Professor Hoffmann ").
MULTIPLEX PERSONALITY.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RF.SEARCH.
SIa,-It would seem from the discussion which has broken out on this
subject that Mr. Myers will at length be compelled to formulate more
precisely the ulterior theories that underlie much of his writing, and which
he has, in my opinion wisely, not needlessly obtruded hitherto.
The question that has been raised may be broadfy stated as beiog:
What must be the inner constitution of the self so as to include the phenomena
of multiplex personality, and in what sellBe can we speak of "secondary
selvell" 1 And the interpretations of the phenomena thus classified would
naturally fall under two heads.
I. The first kind of interpretation, which Mr. Myers and Mr. Barkworth
agree in calling the matrialistic, would seek to explain the facts of
" multiplex personality" as co-ordinate effects of peculiar physical conditions,
neither related to one another, nor correlated manifestations of auy higher
motive force. The different personalities on this theory would simply be
different p6r801ll, that happened to share in, or, more accurately, to be the
results of different conditions of, the same body and this fact would serve to
explain also their general similarity. The bond of union between the
different personalities would, in other words, be purely material. In terlllB
of Mr. Myers' metaphor of the factory, the looms would on this hypothesis
supply their own motive forces, form their own connections, and thelllBelves
change their modes of linking. The" selves," therefore, i.e., the modes of
coupling the looms, are only related in their material, i.e., as modes of
linking the same looms, and to speak of "secondary selves" is decidedly
Digitized by Google
<>ct.,1889.] Journal 0/ Society /01' Psychical Research. 147
misleading, as suggesting some sort of subordination to a primary which has
itself to be explained as the resultant of a common arrangement of certain
particles. It is perhaps necessary to add that this materialistic interpre-
tation must aim at definitely localising the cerebral centres corresponding to
every" personality," and would be greatly facilitated if the pheuomena of
multiplex personality can be, as Mr. Barkworth desires, reduced to minor
varieties of "duplex personality," and brought into connection with the
duality of the brain.
But it is becoming more and more doubtful whether so summary an
interpretation is capable of doing justice to the intricacy of the facts, and
whether the limited areas of our cerebral hemispheres can find room for all
these different chains of memory and sets of personalities. For, on a materi-
alist hypothesis, any memory must mean a certain definite arrangement of
physical atoms, a change in the relative positions of which would involve loss
of memory. It is impossible therefore to admit the assumpti. ,n that our
brains can contain an infinite or indefinite number of such memories, or
systems of particles independently preserving themselves intact and
increasing by the addition of other particles. Yet there seem to be an
indefinite number of "secondary selves," and indefinite potentialities of
multiplex personality inherent in each of us, and our present methods seem
not to have exhausted their numbers so much as to have limited their
available paths of externalisation. If, e.g., we put a pen into the right hand
of an automatic writer, we get one secondary self manifested concurrently
with its primary; if we put another pen into his left hand, we get another
and it almost seems as if it merely required an automatist capable of writing
with his feet to get two more of these" secondary selves." Or, again, on the
materialistic interpretation, what are we to make of the strange glimpses
afforded us that nothing is ever forgotten, and that the atomic combinations
that had passed out of conscious memory had not really been dissolved, but
persisted unimpaired in some mysterious corner of the brain 7 Hitherto
materialism might have seemed to derive support from the phenomena. of
memory, and have seemed able to explain oblivion by the necessity of
dissolving the combinations of particles constituting memory in order to
make room for more recent impl·essions in the limited area of the brain, but
now the brain appears to be an intelligent phonograph of inconceivable
delicacy that has stored up in its records far more than ever entered into the
conscious life of its owner.
II. These and similar difficulties seem to impel a candid investigator
towards the second interpretation of the phenomena by means of an under-
lying non-material principle, that would represent the bond of union of the
multiplex personalities, and stand towards the physical organism in the
relation rather of a cause than of an effect. For not the least important
point about hypnotic experiments is the weird power which the" unconscious
self" seems to possess over the bodily organism. When a hypnotic suggestion
can destroy something so physical as the pain of organic disease, or produce
structural changes, to say nothing of the as yet doubtful powers of lucidity
and clairvoyant prescience, we seem by its aid to have influenced the
principle which actually build8 wp the bod!! and regulates the growth of the
Digitized by Google
148 Journal of Society f01' Psychical Research. [Oct., 1889.
organism. And at the sam!! time this principle that sways the body.
apparently at will, and is able to make matter, seems like the long.sought
scientific illustration of idealist philosophic theories that declare spirit alone
to be the ultimate reality. And though it is, of course, still possible to
take divergent views of this ground and unity of the manifold psychical
activities within us, I hope I shall not tie myself down to anything mis-
chievously precise if I venture to offer some criticisms of the phraseology to
which Mr. Myers seems inclined to give the weighty sanction of his authority.
The term "individuality" ought surely to mean the property of being an
" individual," i.e., something possessed by every stOlle and every atom of a
stone as well as by conscious beings, and hence something less and not more
than" personality." Though, tht'refore, it might improperly be used, instead
of the more precise term" body," to designate the relations of the multiplex
personalities on the materialistic hypothesis, it would bt' decidedly misleading
to mean thereby such a higher alld deeper principle of union as we seem
likely to require. I would suggest rather the adoption of a term about
which the metaphysicians have dreamt much, and which psychical research
now seems to bring for the first time into the purview of exact science. If
we call this underlying unity the Tramcendental Ego, we shall, I think, acquire
an unobjectionable term to express the most striking characteristics of the
phenomeua ill question. It ""ell expresst's both its transcendence of the
limitatiolls of our ordinary cOllsciousness and also the connection aud funda-
mental kinship with it which it possesses in virtue of its individual selfhood.
We should thus be able to distinguish precisely, firstly, the phenomenal selfor
normal consciousness; secondly, the "8econdaf'!/ 8elve8"; and thirdly, their
uniou and harmony in the Tran8cendental E,qo, the realisation of which in a
fully developed consciousness might be represented as the ideal or aim of the
evolution of the other two. I have already occupied too much of your
patience to touch upon the metaphysical superstructure that might be
erected upon this basis, but it will be evident that Mr. Barkworth's fears as
to the effect of modern researches into "multiplex personality" upon our
prospects of immortality are justly declared by Mr. Myers to be entirely
groundless. For if our normal self is but one ont of many imperfect and
partial manife_tatiolls of a transcendent personality, we Ileed no longer
fear that our true self possesses an amount of reality varying with the
chances of this mortal life; that it is crushed by disease, curtailed by loss of
memory, subverted by insanity, suspended by sleep, and finally dissolved by
death: on the contrary,the grave difficulties that any rational eschatology must
as yet continue to present may, perhaps, here receive an ultimate solution.
C. ScHILLER.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL REsEARCH.
SIR,-In the Journal for May last Mr. Barkworth invited me to set forth
some of the accumulating evidence which makes (as I hold) for the conception
of Multiplex Personality. I have thought that this could be best done in the
course of notices of certain French books and pamphlets of which it was
thought desirable that reviews should appear ill the forthcoming Part XV. of
our Proceeding8. To those reviews, therefore, I beg to refer Mr. Barkworth
Digitized by Google
Oct.. 1889.] Journal of Society for P8ychical }lp,llearch. 149
Turning to Mr. Schilll'r's letter, with which I am in substantial agreement,
I understand hill objection to be to the use of the word individualityas meaning
a unity pervading or expressed by an indefinite number of minor individu-
alities. If one wisbes to imply that this larger unity antecedes and underlies
whatsoever masks or "._ it. may lUl8ume in this or ot.her existences, the
term Transcendental Self or Tranll".endental Ego is more directly expressive.
But have we a right to borrow terms which seem to transcend experience for
our use in Experimental Psychology 1 Should we not rather seek our
analogy from the natural history of animals otht-r than ourselves 1
Yet much the same difficulty as ours seems to be already felt by naturalists
in describing what would he our truest parallel ;-namely, those inferior
animal forms which consist of a co-operating aggregate of millor individuals.
To call a hydrozoon a "colonial aniDlal" sounds rather as though we could
not conceive of any organised community except in Queen~land or Canada.
We ought, perhaps, to adopt the term in psychology, and to speak of our-
selves as "colonial 8Oul8." Yet I fear that we should thus be exposed to
misapprehensiouslike that of the gentleman who, seeing "Colonial Animals"
8{h'ertised as the subject of a discourse, offered the lecturer the loan of a
kangaroo.
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS.
CRYSTAL GAZING.
To ehe Editor of the JOURNAL OF THII: SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RII:SIl:ARCH.
Lieut.-Colonel Fraser writes :-
DEAR SIR,-Being the person alluded to by Professor Barrett in the
Journal for June, p. 83, I mlly mt'ntion that the whole lIeries of these gazing
methods are known to the natives as "Unjamu." The experiments I made
with care, and on very nllIllerous ocC&iJions, with an illiterate native, who, how-
ever, saw 11I1lch more clearly than he was able to describe, were with a pit.chy
substance made up with castor oil ; a spot--ahout the size of a wafer-of
which on a green leaf stuck against the wall being what the man looked into.
That pictures are seen under these circumstances is a thing I found no nath'e
acquainted with these matters would dispute, and I suppose the composition
is given in the Sanllkrit Atharvn. Veda. Of course all the pictures he saw
and I identified already existed ill my recollection, just as they do in every
one's who, if they see a photograph of a place they have been at, will tell in
a moment where it is, not by one or two but the whole of the features ;-
they might therefore be produced by thought-leading. The impre88ion I
got, however, from repeated trials. was that even clairvoyam'e had nothing
to do with the picture-, and it must be by actual pel'ception of the objects in
some indefinable way. Both this man and another who aillo used to see, but
gave up the att.empt for several yeal'8, stuck out that the property was in the
black composition, and that though there wall more than one kiud, any black
8tuft' would not answer.
• * * • • • *
Calicut, India. A. T. FRASER.
Atlfltut Stll, 1889.
[Colonel Fraser adds some suggestions towards a physical theory of the
Digilizedby Google ~
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1889.
phenomenon described; but these appear to us to be at least premature, and
Ollr space scarcely permits of our including them.-Eo.]
00 ANIMALS SEE APPARITIONS 1
To tke Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Sut,-I see in the June number of the Journal, Mrs. Sidgwick's sugges·
tion that the dogs, in General Barter's case,if. probably saw nothing, but
merely heard a bewildering sound, while observing their master's attitude of
expectatiolJ, &c.
I have a remarkable case to forward with my census paper, which
decidedly bears out the theory that apparitions are not always merely
subjective, but that animals are capable of apprehending apparitions in
common with man.
ALYX M. WOOD.
4, The Avenue, Colchester.
June 16th.
[The calle forwarded by Mrs. Wood is printed in the present number of
the Joui·nal, p. 139, and is numbered G. 4.-ED.]
To tke Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-Among the suggestions in the June issue of our Journal, as to the
reason of the action of the dogs accompanying General Barter, at the time
of the apparition in India, I do not find auy similar to a.n impression I had
on first reading the account and which may be worth discussion or considera-
tion, viz., that the terror of the animals was derived from that of their
master; impressed telepathically and shared by them as a tranaferred idea
only, not in their case the result of, or accompanied by, any" pictorial basis,"
-- phantasmal or hallucinatory.
As these animals have often been known to seemingly act in anticipation
of t,he wishes of their masters, before utterance, command, or even gesture
ftom the latter; and are noted for intelligence in such capacity, I do not·
think it should be considered extravagant to assume that strong mental
excitation allied to fear on the part of the General, was reflected, as
" undefined" terror, in the perception of the dogs, instead of arising in
them as a result of any direct 86naory impreB81:on, either visua.l or auditory-
and thus purely as a transmitted mental" percept "-quite unconnected with
any "sight of the alarm depicted on their master's countenance," as
suggested by Dr. Klein. With regard to Mrs. Sidgwick's hypothesis I
callnot conceive that a mere confused sound of shifting gravel could have
been so rhythmical in its nature, as to cause the dogs by a process, as it were,
of mental induction, in themselves to postulate the sounel of a horse galloping
and thence anticipate (" ex pede Herculem") the necessary sequence of a
visible pony to such a degree as absolutely to become so terrified thereat as to
run away in consequence of the said pOlly'S non·appearance.
* It will be remembered that General Barter heard sounds as of an approaching
horse, and saw an apparition of a man on a pony and two grooms. His dogs.
exhibited signs of alarm. The case is published in Proceeding8 XIV., p. 469.
Digitized by Google
Oct.,1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 151
Should my idea of the possibility of receptivity in animals for telepathic
impressions from human beings be true, the same may exist also between
ammals of the lower orderll, and would also apply to hundreds of recorded
cases of the behaviour of dogs, in face of supranormal occurrences.
H. VENJIIAN.
June 15th, 1889.
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF PHYSIOLOGICAL
PSYCHOLOGY.
The meeting of this Congress, which was annollnced in previous Journals,
took place at Paris in August, and was considered to be a decided success.
The Congress took up the statistical inquiry into the frequency and nature
of hallucinations which we bad already begun, and this inquiry will be carried
on in various countries of Europe, and in the United States of America. We
hope that an interesting report on the subject will be presented to the
Congress at their next meeting, (which is to be in London ill 1892,) and if
we are right in our belief in the telepathic origin of many hallucinations, it
cannot but lead to a considerable addition to our knowledge of this, and,
perhapsofother psychicalsubjects, as well as to a wider acceptance of our views,
and interest in our researches. Though telepathy did not form one of the
main subjects of discussion by the Congress, we were struck with the amount
of interest that seemed to be taken in the subject, even by persons who do
not yet consider it to be an established fact.
We do not give any report of the Congress here, as one will appear in a
few weeks in our Proceedings, Part XV.
THE USE OF HYPNOTIC TREATMENT IN INSANITY.
At the meeting of the British Medical Association, which was heldat Leeds
last August, a remarkable paper was read by M. Auguste Voisin, physician to
the Salplltriilre Hosp-ital, Paris, on the treatment of cases of insanity and of
backward and imbectle children by hypnotism. Such an attempt had not been
seriously made till within the last few years, but some very good results had
been reached ill Paris by patient treatment. It had been used on some cases
of insanity with hallucination and delusion, with success and also on some
very serious cases of suicidal and acute mania. In some cases in which there
wel'e recurrent attacks of acute mania, it had been found possible to keep the
patients asleep for as much as six or eight days, and thus to tide over the times
of crisis, and induce recovery. Some chronic cases of dipsomania and
morphinomania had als(> been cured. Several English doctors expressed
their surprise; but Dr. Langdon Down had seen some similar good effects
of hypnotic control; and Dr. Lloyd Tuckey had found hypnotism very useful
in some cases of dipsomania, and also drew the attention of the Association
to the records of the Rev. Arthur Tooth, of Woodside, Croydon, who had
established a most successful institute for inebriates and others of bad habits,
ill which hypnotism had been of use in 79 per cent of the cases. Dr. Percy
Smith related the use of hypnotic treatment by Mr. G. A. Smith, with the
assistance of Dr. A. T. Myers, at Bethlehem Royal Hospital, on 16 patients,
where not much success had been as yet attained, but further trial would be
made; and Dr. Hack Tuke mentioned that he had suggested such an attempt
as far back as 1865, and was very glad to hear of M. Auguste Voisin's success.
He hoped that soon there might be more results to show for it in England.
Digitized by Google
152 JO'U1"Tlal of Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. [Oct., 1889.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOOUE.
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
Additiom Bince the laBt list ("JO'I.IIf"TI,(J," for Jla:/f).
BERNHEIM (Prof. H., M.D.), Suggestive Therapeutics: A Treatise on
the Nature and Uses of Hypnotism. From the French, second
edit., byC.A. Herter, M.D., of New York. N6'W Yorlc and London, 1889.
BINET (Alfred) and F'd (Charles), Animal Magnetism, second edition.
From the French.................. ...................................London, 1888.
JACKBON (J. Hughlings, M.D., F.R.S.), The Croouian Lectures: On
the Evolution and Dissolution of the Nervous System..London, 1884
--, Remarks on the Evolution and Di88olution of the Nervous
System, No. I..........................................................London, 1888
BERTRAND (Alexandre), Du Magnlitisme Animal en France........Pari", 1826
BINET (A.) Les Perceptions inconscientes de I'Hypnotisme (Revue
. Scientijique,29rd Peb., 1889, p. 241)..... ...........................PariB, 1889
DUFRESNOY (l'Abbii L.), Recueil de Dissertations, Anciennes et Nouvel-
les, sur les Apparitions, les Visions et les Songes. 2 'Vol". PariB, 1752
FERE (Ch.), De l'Etat des Forces ches les Epileptiques...................... 1888*
--, Note sur les Temp~ de Reaction chez ler Hystliriques et chesles
Epileptiques.................................................................... 1889*
JANET (Prof. Pierre), L'Automlltisme Psychologique...............Paru, 1889
LIiBEAULT (Dr. A. A.), Le Sommeil Provoque et les Etats Analogues,
Pam, 1889
REVUE DES SCIESCES HYPNOTIQUES, Vol. I.. ..........................Pam.1887-8
.sIMONIN (AmMee H.), Solutioll du Problilme de la Suggestiou
H,Jpnotique.......................................................... ......Pari8, 1880
DESSOIR (Max), Das Doppel-Ich (2 cOPlea)..............................8erlin 1889+
Du PREL (Carl), Das Zweite Gellicht............................. .....Brealau, N.D.
FOREL (Prof. Dr. Aug.), Eiuige Therapeutische Versuche mit dem
Hypnotismus bei Geisterkrallken. (Correapondenz.Blatt f#I'
Schweizer Aerzte, 15th Aug., 1887)............................ ........BaBle, 1887
--, Der Hypnotismus, seine Bedeutung und seine Handhabung
Stuttgart, 1889
·GESELLBCHAFT FUR EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGIE. Ersten Jahres
BERICHT............................................... .....................Berlin, 1889
HERING (Dr.), Ueber Hypnotismus......................................Berlin, 1888
H UCKEL (Dr. Armand), Die Rolle der 8uggestion bei gewissen
Erscheillul1gen der Hysterie und des Hypnotismus.......... ...Je1la, 1888
KRAFFT·EBING (ur. R. von), Eil1e experimentelle Studie auf dem
Gehiete des Hypnotismus. Second edition..................Stutt,qart, 1889
MOLL (Dr. albert), Der Hypnotismus.................................. Berlin, 1889:1:
ST. J., Die Psychologische Bedeutung des Gedankel1lesens Leipzig, 1885
WESERMANN (H.M.), Der Magnetislllus und die Allgemeine Welt-
sprache............................................................ ........Creveld, 1822
WETTERSTRAND (Dr. Otto G.). Om Hypnotismlls anwandande iden
Praktiska Medicillen...................... ........................Stoclcholm, 1888
'OTTOLENGHI (S.) e LOMBRoso (C.), Nuovi Studi sull' Ipnotismo e sulla
Credulita...................................................................Turin, 1889
*Extrait deB Compte. rendu~ des Seances de la Societe de BioloJPe.
t One copy prpsented by Author. ::: Presented by the Author.
Want ofapace compel. UI to defe.. the liBt ofadditiom to the General Library
till N 0'IJe'I1Ibff0. .
Digitized by Google
