{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v11_n4-5_apr-may_2015.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V11 N4-5 Apr-May 2015","mylang":"de"}
111
F
—~§~—
—~§~—
112 – Conan Doyle Proves His Survival – Maurice Barbanell
Direct Voice Phenomena – two views
119 – Mercy Phillimore
124 – Brigadier R. C. Firebrace, C.B.E.
129 – S.N.U. Pioneer – Leslie Price
130 – Some adventures of Bishop Leadbeater – Clara M. Codd
134 – Waite and spiritualism
134 – Mr. A. E. Waite – Charles Richard Cammell Editor of Light
135 – Arthur Edward Waite: An Appreciation – Lewis Spence
137 – L.S.A. Comments and Records – Mercy Phillimore
138 – Shadows of Life and Thought – Arthur Edward Waite
143 – Some books we have reviewed
144 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
“Double Issue”
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
Established 2004
Volume 11, No. 04: April & No. 05: May 2015
112
CONAN DOYLE PROVES HIS
SURVIVAL
Note by LP: As a leading Spiritualist, Conan Doyle has often been reported as a
communicator. The summary account below omits one of the most striking cases, that through
Grace Cooke1
but raises the question – who was the mystery Scottish lady who impressed
Lady Conan Doyle?
—~§~—
Across the Gulf – by Maurice Barbanell, Psychic Press, 1940, pages 49-62:
A FEW minutes after he died, Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle announced that
fact in a dramatic fashion to one of his
daughters.
Mary Conan Doyle was in her
father’s psychic library and bookshop
in Victoria, South West London, when,
to her surprise, the charwoman became
entranced. Sir Arthur spoke through her
lips and told Mary that he had passed
on a few minutes ago.
This was her ﬁrst news of his death.
She knew of course, about his illness,
but his passing was not then expected.
Conﬁrmation of the spirit message
through the charwoman reached Mary a
little later on.
Since then, the great champion of
Spiritualism, the author who created in
Sherlock Holmes one of the greatest
characters in ﬁction, the man who
dedicated years of his life to
propagating Spiritualism in England
and abroad, has returned again and
again from beyond the grave, and proved his own survival to his family, relatives and friends.
He has continued to lavish affection and to give guidance to his family, and his messages
have always been accompanied by incontestable proofs of his identity.
Much of the evidence of Conan Doyle’s survival can never be made public. It consists of
intimate matters too sacred to be recorded in cold print.
1
The White Eagle Publishing Trust: http://www.whiteaglepublishing.org/_books/conan_doyle.htm
113
Doyle, knowing the value of cumulative testimony, has scoured the world for mediums,
and has succeeded, again and again, in sending spirit messages that leave no doubt as to the
communicator.
Familiar with all the objections raised by critics against Spiritualism when he was on
earth, his ingenious mind has devised tests to overcome these suggestions. He has sought out
new mediums and given them messages which they did not understand, but were of vital
importance to members of his family.
The medium chieﬂy used by Lady Doyle was sent to her at her husband’s spirit
instigation. This woman, a friend of mine, knew little of Spiritualism until a series of curious
events occurred shortly before Sir Arthur’s passing.
She is a woman of culture and intelligence, a Scot with all the qualities of caution
associated with that race. Her mediumship has in no way impaired her business acumen, for
she is still the head of a commercial undertaking. Although a widow twice bereaved, she was
not interested in psychic matters and knew nothing of her own mediumship until she had a
curious conversation with a stranger.
Seated one day in the tea-room of a large West End store, she noticed that a woman at her
table seemed anxious to get into conversation with her. She resented this approach from a
stranger, but her newly-found companion was insistent.
“I am a Spiritualist,” she said, “and I saw you in a vision this morning.”
That remark aroused the resentment of the Scotswoman, who regarded the stranger as a
crank. But the stranger was persistent, for she went on to describe a spirit she could see there.
That made the Scotswoman sit up, for it was a perfect description of her dead husband.
She was determined to make her own inquiry into Spiritualism, and spent years attending
séances with all sorts of mediums. Finally, she discovered that she herself possessed a
psychic gift.
Unmistakable voices would speak to her, giving deﬁnite messages. Often these voices
would give her information on matters unknown to her, but on inquiry she always obtained
conﬁrmation.
About a month after the passing of Conan Doyle, she heard a voice declaring in clear
tones, “I am Arthur Conan Doyle. I want you to get into touch with my wife and send her a
message.”
This surprised the woman. She had never met Doyle. She did not know his wife, nor
indeed any member of his family. Being a Scotswoman, full of reserve and caution, she did
not feel inclined to approach Lady Doyle unless she were sure of her ground.
“Give me some proof of your identity,” she insisted.
The voice replied by giving the initials of every member of his family. These she found
were correct when she made inquiries later on.
114
Still hesitant, she said to the Doyle voice: “Where shall I ﬁnd your wife?”
The answer came quite clearly, for the voice gave her a telephone number, told her she
would not ﬁnd it in the telephone book, but said it was the private number of the Doyle
cottage in the New Forest.
This was a test. Still she thought that before approaching Lady Doyle, she would try to
ﬁnd out whether the number was correct. She inquired at the telephone exchange, but was
told: “We are not allowed to give such information.”
When people ask for their names not to be printed in the telephone book, the exchange
will not usually give you information about them.
Here was a deadlock. She paused for a few moments, and then asked the operator to call
the number the voice had given her.
Well, the voice was right, for soon she was talking to Lady Doyle.
At that time the Doyle family were being ﬂooded with alleged spirit messages from all
over the world. Lady Doyle and her sons rightly insisted they could not accept spirit
messages claiming to emanate from Sir Arthur unless they were accompanied by evidence to
prove their authenticity.
The Scotswoman told Lady Doyle her story. She was listened to very politely, but Lady
Doyle insisted: “I must have more proof.”
This was a rebuff. She had carried out the instructions of the voice and had met with
failure.
But Sir Arthur was not dismayed. A few days later she heard his voice again. He knew all
about the rebuff, he said, but he was going to prove himself through his new medium.
“What shall I do? ” he was asked.
“Go and have a séance with Mrs. Deane,” Conan Doyle said, “and I will appear on a
photograph.”
This sitting with Mrs. Deane, a medium for spirit photographs, was arranged
anonymously, and no hint was given as to its purpose. When the plate was developed, and the
print taken, there was a striking photograph of Conan Doyle above the head of the
Scotswoman.
This picture was shown to Lady Doyle, who admitted that it was a remarkable one and
certainly bore an unmistakable likeness to her husband. But even then she demanded still
more proof.
If her husband was going to send her messages through this new medium, who was a
stranger, she must be absolutely convinced that he was the spirit communicator.
And Doyle provided complete proof in a startling fashion.
115
The medium was in her London ﬂat a few days later. She had not long awakened and had
gone into another room. When she returned to her bedroom she found a key lying on her
pillow. She looked at this key in amazement. It did not belong to any door in her ﬂat. How it
had got there, she could not explain. She stood there wondering. Then once again came the
voice of Conan Doyle.
“That is my key,” he said. “It comes from the door of my study, which is always kept
locked at Crowborough. Send for my son, Denis.”
Here was a test—if the statement were true.
She telephoned Denis at Crowborough in Sussex, and told him what had happened.
He jumped into a motor-car and drove down right away to see her. He took the key back
to Crowborough, and telephoned the medium later on to say it was certainly the key of his
father’s study.
Using some unknown power, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle had transported his key a distance
of forty miles. That convinced Lady Doyle, and thereafter the medium became the instrument
through whom spirit messages regularly came from Sir Arthur to his wife and family.
These séances were so successful that Lady Doyle was able to say: “My children and I
have had the most marvellous evidence of my husband’s continued love and care of us. My
boy’s lives have actually been saved through his warnings of the dangerous condition of
certain parts of their racing-cars, which they had intended to drive—warnings which were
later proved to be well founded. It has been amazing how he has been able to demonstrate his
closeness to us.”
Denis Conan Doyle has also given his testimony.
“Since my father passed on,” he said, “I have been in extremely close touch with him. In
common with the rest of my family, I never undertake any important step in any aspect of my
life whatever, without the advice and concurrence of my father from the Other Side. He has
given me splendid and most helpful advice on numerous occasions, on many different
matters, and he has shown that his love for, care of, and closeness to his family is fully as
great as when he was with us in the physical body.”
At séance after séance through this medium, whom Doyle had found for his family, the
great champion of Spiritualism continued to demonstrate that he could still guide them. The
sittings took the form of reunions.
And using his extended experiences, Sir Arthur showed that his interest in his family had
not been disturbed by “death.” He proved that he knew everything that was going on in their
lives.
As Denis himself said: “He has shown himself aware of every feature and every detail of
our lives. He has positively proved, again and again, that it has indeed been my father himself
who has continued to ﬁll in my life the place which he ﬁlled when on earth—that of a most
loving and greatly loved father.”
116
Not long ago Doyle sent a spirit warning to his son which prevented him from being
involved in a crash in a racing-car.
Denis was undecided which of two cars to purchase. Finally he decided on one. Then
came a message from Sir Arthur warning him that this car had an unsuspected weakness on
the left side of the cylinder blocks.
Later, Denis was able to conﬁrm the truth of the spirit message.
He bought the second car. Then came another warning cautioning him against a
mechanical defect. When the car was tried out at Brooklands, it was found that one of the
master bolts was not gripping by half a turn of the thread.
Recently Lady Doyle was ill. To prove that “death” had not robbed him of his medical
skill, Sir Arthur, who was a practising doctor before he turned to authorship, gave a detailed
diagnosis of his wife’s complaint before any X-ray examination was made. The spirit
diagnosis was recorded, word for word. After the X-ray plate was taken, it was found that the
diagnosis was absolutely correct.
I could ﬁll the whole of this book with accounts of Sir Arthur’s many spirit messages
given through mediums in different parts of the country, and indeed through mediums
abroad.
One of the most dramatic returns occurred in an aeroplane whilst it ﬂew a mile above the
lights of New York City.
This story really began with a lecture given by Conan Doyle in Washington in one of his
lecturing tours in the United States of America. Sir Arthur was interviewed by a newspaper
man who put this question to him: “Why is darkness necessary to the production through a
medium of some psychic phenomena?”
Doyle replied: “It strengthens the psychic vibrations through which the communications
come by reducing earthly distractions and thus aiding concentration by the medium.”
That answer produced a question which made Doyle wonder. The journalist asked: “Have
you ever considered experimentation with a séance in the cabin of an aeroplane, high above
earthly distractions?”
Doyle paused. Then he said he had not thought of such an experiment, but the suggestion
was interesting.
Years later, this journalist was invited to attend a séance at which the voice of Doyle
addressed him. There was no mistaking the tone, for it had the famous author’s distinctive
intonation and diction which once heard could not be forgotten.
Doyle reminded him of the conversation at their last meeting in Washington. Thereupon
the journalist repeated the suggestion of attempting a séance in an aeroplane.
Would Doyle try to speak if it were arranged he asked. Sir Arthur promised to do his best.
117
After many difficulties the newspaper man succeeded in inducing American Air Lines to
let him charter an aeroplane for his purpose. The only preparation made for the séance was
the darkening of the windows to exclude moonlight and starlight.
Beside the medium, some friends were invited to be present. Soon spirit voices were heard
speaking through trumpets that had been placed in the darkened cabin.
The climax was reached when they heard the unmistakable voice of Conan Doyle declare:
“I want to congratulate you on having arranged this experiment. This is an epoch-making
ﬂight. This is an adventure more fantastic than death itself! To think that we are all together
here ﬂying high above the night lights of your great New York City. It is quite wonderful.”
The voice trailed off.
Soon Doyle was heard again.
“Is Ford here?” he asked.
Arthur Ford, the well-known American medium, was one of the passengers.
“Yes, Sir Arthur, I am here,” he responded.
“Good evening, Ford,” said Conan Doyle.
“This is a marvellous experience isn’t it? ”
Ford recognized Doyle’s characteristic voice, but inquired whether he could put a test
question.
“Where did I last speak to you and who was present?” he asked.
The reply came without hesitation.
“I remember very well,” declared Conan Doyle; “at lunch the last day of the Cantlon trial
at my hotel. David Gow was among those present.”
“That is quite right,” Ford replied. “Thank you, Sir Arthur.”
The last time he had met Doyle was at his hotel on the last day of a trial which had
aroused interest amongst Spiritualists. And the man mentioned, David Gow, was present.
Another striking spirit test given by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was the reproduction of his
earthly signature.
When I was recently in America, I stayed for some days in the Boston home of Dr.
Crandon, whose wife, Margery, is the most famous medium in the world. She has in her
possession Doy1e’s spirit autograph, which came through her mediumship.
Sir Arthur, as a gift, had sent her a copy of his book, The Edge of the Unknown. It arrived in
Boston on the day he passed on. It had not been handled by Doyle, but was sent straight from
his publishers.
118
At a séance this book was placed on the table, together with a pencil and fountain pen.
Everyone present clasped the hand of his neighbour, until no one in the circle had a hand
free. When the lights were put on, there, on the title page, was a perfect signature by Conan
Doyle.
Yes, death could not silence the greatest champion Spiritualism ever had, the man whose
interest in this fascinating subject was aroused when he was twenty-seven years of age, and
who devoted the last thirty years of his life to pleading its cause in the Press, in books and
from the public platform.
Ever since he passed on, the voice of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has continued to speak from
beyond the grave, carrying on the propaganda which was his chief interest for nearly half his
earthly career.
—~§~—
Sir Arthur and Lady Conan Doyle
119
DIRECT VOICE – TWO VIEWS
Note by LP: Direct voice is a puzzling phenomenon; after all, how can a disembodied voice
be heard in the air? We present below two views from the London Spiritualist Alliance.
Mercy Phillimore was its secretary, who retired in 1952; she also edited LIGHT just before
that. Who was the medium to whom she took exception? She certainly disliked Leslie Flint
and elsewhere wrote a negative private report on him. Roy Firebrace, late of Military
Intelligence, had the advantage of his own voice circle for a time, about which more in a later
issue. At the time of the 1944 Duncan trial he was particularly associated with the
International Institute; I met him once or twice and wish I had dared to ask him to explain his
role in her case.
—~§~—
Light November 26th 1942 front page-379
DIRECT VOICE
SOME DIFFICULTIES AND A WARNING
By MERCY PHILLIMORE
THE passing of Mrs. Etta Wriedt at Detroit, U.S.A., on July 3rd, at the advanced age of 83,
has just been brought to our knowledge. The direct voice mediumship of Mrs. Wriedt has not
been equalled during the last twenty-ﬁve years. This is the opinion of those who knew her
well and who have sat with other Mediums of the same type.
Direct voice mediumship is as remarkable as it is rare. A few people who have had
excellent results through direct voice mediumship have published their experiences. The most
popular books are Glimpses of the Next State and The Voices, by Admiral Usborne Moore
(Mrs. Etta Wriedt, Medium). Towards the Stars, by Dennis Bradley (Valiantine, Medium)
and On the Edge of the Etheric, by J. Arthur Findlay (Sloan, Medium). The Dead Have Never
Died, by E. Randall, of U.S.A. (Mrs. French, Medium).
These books and many articles on some other notable direct voice Mediums have created
an immensely keen desire on the part of nearly every investigating Spiritualist to have this
unique experience. Not only have we this intense and persistent desire for direct voice
mediumship amongst ourselves, but an interest purporting to be from the spirit side was
shown some years ago for the cultivation of this form of mediumship. The Control of one of
our most famous Mediums caused the formation of a number of circles. She selected and
grouped together many people with the request that they should sit for direct Voice: but, as
far as I know, no success resulted. I myself sat by request for many months in one of these
circles.
There is no doubt that good direct voice is one of the most dramatic and arresting forms of
psychic manifestation that can be experienced. As I have said, it is, however, very rare.
Furthermore, really satisfactory results are infrequent among those who have the opportunity
of participating in such circles. This is a statement which will be rejected, I know, by many
who are very enthusiastic about direct voice mediumship. I am prepared to offer an
explanation for this statement, for we are constantly being asked for introductions to direct
120
voice Mediums with questions about special features and advantages of this form of
mediumship.
For fear that I should be thought to undervalue direct voice, let me say quite clearly that I
have had not only numerous sittings of the kind spread over nearly thirty years, but that on a
few occasions I have been the fortunate recipient of just those extraordinarily striking results
which cause the enthusiasm to which I have referred.
What I am anxious to do is to point out an exaggerated idea commonly held about direct
voice and to show the disproportion of favour attached to it for offering communication with
the departed as compared with other forms of mediumship. This opinion is based upon my
own experience and from hearing the experiences of hundreds of people who have sought
evidence of Survival through all available types of mediumship.
Direct voice is due to a combination of both mental and physical mediumship. All forms
of mediumship fall into one or the other group, for manifestations are either subjective
(mental) or objective (physical). Direct voice mediumship may perhaps be regarded as the
finest example of the meeting ground between the two types, where the maximum ability is
shown to harness and to direct the forces which are available. Fine quality mental
mediumship is required because ﬁrst-class evidence of identity is possible. Fine quality
physical power is required because voices are objective, and for that an intelligently moulded
instrument, or voice-box, is necessary. It must be presumed that for the production of sounds
of speech and articulation a finely constructed instrument is required, an instrument
constituted in accordance with the principles of construction of a human thorax, throat, mouth
and tongue, otherwise articulated speech would be impossible.
A person possessing the psychic qualities suitable for voice mediumship is mostly found
also with powers favourable for materialisation, lights, sounds, levitation and telekinesis, the
latter being the movement of objects without apparent contact.
MORE COMPLICATED
If there is the willingness to direct physical power to the production of voice, the other
forms of physical manifestation will be less. If power is used with the intention to encourage
the variety of physical manifestations, the voices must necessarily be less in frequency and
volume. For good voice phenomena concentration of power on voice is essential. The other
types of manifestation must be permitted to take a minor place. Each type of mediumship,
mental and physical, has its snags and difficulties, and so direct voice, being a combination of
the two, is beset with the full range.
Thus, it is a fallacy to suppose that voice phenomena, being produced outside or away
from the Medium, come free of the usual inﬂuence associated with the mental phenomena,
as, for instance, in trance. Far from being a simpler and more direct method of
communication with the departed, it is more complicated, and, hence, probably more
susceptible to interference. But “interference” arises from meagre power, or more power
insufficiently developed, or from a state of mind of Medium and sitter which instead of being
passive and selﬂess is dominantly active and persuasive. The open mind which is free from
entangling domination is necessary for the least-inﬂuenced results. This applies equally to
mental and physical mediumship, for ectoplasm active in physical manifestations is amply
proved to be ideoplastic, i.e., subject to the inﬂuence of mind.
121
This fact helps one to realise the supernormal composite nature of ectoplasm as a material
substance, for it appears to combine the elements of matter and some aspect of the life-
essence of the soul, since it is directly inﬂuenced by mind. Presumably, in order for
ectoplasmic forms to be rapidly constituted during a sitting, it is an advantage for the “sphere
of inﬂuence” to be free from active thought of all except those who are, by desired intent,
operating on the ectoplasm, such as the Guides of the Medium and the communicators who
may be able to manipulate it. The sitters can help negatively by keeping their minds to
themselves. Sitters do not often think of this, but mentally invade and incidentally inﬂuence
the operations. It must be by understanding and an act of will that a sitter refrains from
interference. We do not ordinarily realise to what an extent our feelings, thoughts and auras
invade our environment and impinge upon those around us.
Amongst the many who sit in direct voice circles only a very few are the recipients of
sustained conversation capable of giving that mass of ideas and fact which is possible
through mental mediumship, and particularly trance. The majority who get anything at all
receive only fragmentary utterances, often very difficult to hear. Were a trance Medium never
able to give the average sitter more than is generally obtained through voice mediumship,
very few trance sittings would be held, but one has to recognise the remarkable phenomena
and the results obtained by particular people.
Here and there a sitter is found who evidently provides “conditions” very helpful for voice
phenomena, and one suspects also that, added to this element, there must be a communicator
who excels at this particular type of communication. It is on the strength of these rare
instances that the tremendous reputation of voice phenomena is built. Voice mediumship is
ordinarily very difficult to develop. Mrs. Etta Wriedt spent nine years before she considered
herself sufficiently developed for professional work, but what a reward was hers, and,
incidentally, for those who experienced her power!
To-day it seems that the few who are favoured with this form of power are disinclined to
give sufficient time and energy to development before starting on a professional career. There
are circumstances which relieve the Medium of some of the responsibility. There is this
insistent demand which to some extent is based upon false ideas regarding the average voice
mediumship. The public wants voice mediumship. Some people are fascinated by the meagre
phenomena of the moderately good but insufficiently developed voice Medium, and, in the
failure to appraise its value, they become hopelessly credulous. That is a misfortune for the
struggling Medium, for such people not only reduce his will and effort to improve his
development, but they may lull him into a false sense of security, and, at the same time, drive
away others who would be prepared to help him ﬁt himself for the better use of his gifts. Also
bad habits in a séance room remain unchecked, and all this adds difficulty to the Spiritualist
Movement to win and hold within the Movement the public with ordinary sense and
sensibility.
122
A REGRETTABLE EXPERIENCE
I have recently had an experience which can only be deeply regretted by anyone who
knows what properly developed voice mediumship is, and, moreover, who would guard the
bereaved inquirer from those elements in the Movement which hinder instead of help.
In order to sit with this particular Medium for direct voice, it is required that the applicant
shall ﬁrst have a private sitting for mental phenomena. A private sitting was arranged for me
by a lady known to the Medium. Trance was not permitted, I was told, without the Guide’s
previous consent, and so the Medium remained normal and attempted clairvoyance, etc.
Nothing transpired of a nature that could be attributed to the psychic faculties. We had a
pleasant chat, and the Medium talked very sensibly about sittings in general, saying that
power was intermittent and could not always be counted upon, and, unfortunately, this was
one of the occasions when little could be done. I was agreeably impressed with our talk and
truly welcomed the candid confession. Always we advise our Mediums to inform a sitter if
on any particular occasion the power is not forthcoming; this is the honest and correct thing
to do. Such variability is inevitable with all Mediums, however gifted. With the most gifted
and properly developed, of course, there are fewer occasions on which it is advisable to
cancel the sitting.
PRELIMINARY SITTING
At the sitting I have referred to we talked for about an hour, and then I was told by the
Medium that the Guide would be willing to admit me to a circle for direct voice, and that I
was to arrange a time with the secretary. My friend, who arranged the sitting for me, had a
similar experience. Neither of us had satisfactory results. We had, in fact, merely been
“vetted ” by the Medium as a preliminary to admission to a circle for direct voice. For our
private sittings each of us paid a fee that is ordinarily only charged by very few of the leading
trance Mediums.
The practice of seeking assurance that a prospective sitter is a bona ﬁde inquirer is
perfectly right and advisable, but commonsense suggests that it is hardly wise for a self-
respecting Medium to undertake this work himself. Very few people, especially
inexperienced inquirers, would come through such a meeting without giving away many
points about themselves which, if referred to at subsequent sittings, would have to be
discounted as possible evidence. I can claim that I was careful to give away nothing during
the preliminary sitting, and I was assured by my friend that she also did not.
We went together to the circle for direct voice. We sat in a very small room, just large
enough to seat some twelve or thirteen sitters in the usual complete darkness. A luminous
cross was placed upon the mantelpiece, on the ﬂoor were laid two trumpets, two luminous
plaques and a bell. We sat for nearly two hours, during which nothing of a psychic nature
occurred. Uproarious singing was maintained the whole time, dozens of airs followed one
after the other; an occasional hymn, the favourite songs of the last war, a selection of musical
comedy and music hall refrains popular to-day and during the last thirty years; a regular jolly
pandemonium. Had we been an hilarious party at an old-fashioned music hall, night club or
rather rough road-house with beer mugs, we should have felt at home, and possibly quite
cheered; but, having regard to the purpose of the occasion and to the effect it would have on
anyone introduced as an inquirer into Spiritualism, either through bereavement or intellectual
interest in the subject, I can declare that it was an outrage to decent feeling.
123
We know that often, at voice sittings, singing is necessary. The “voices” ﬁnd it easier to
speak on the sound vibrations of the human voice, which are judged to be better than those of
mechanical music. But if such a performance as I have referred to is necessary for this
Medium, I should certainly suggest that, assuming the possession of voice mediumship is
genuine, prolonged development is advisable before further public work is attempted.
At the end of the voice circle the Control purported to speak, admitted failure, and invited
the sitters to another circle at a later date. The invitation was accepted.
WHO WAS JOHN?
The second circle was composed of many of the same sitters, with others to make up the
number. I judged the second group of people to be a more favourable one than the first from
the point of view of obtaining psychic results. The procedure was the same; the singing was a
little less continuous, as manifestations occurred this time. The trumpets with the luminous
rings were vigorously swung immediately in front of the Medium. The bell was thrown
across the ﬂoor and voices were heard in the trumpet. Habitueés of the circle had messages
which they declared were evidential. A voice addressed me announcing that he was John, my
husband! I was urged to respond to him. I did so in a non-committal way, but could elicit
nothing of any value. The Guide seemed to be sorry and towards the end of the circle invited
me to come again. Afterwards the secretary repeated the invitation, which I did not then
accept. I decided to reﬂect upon the episode, and, later, I decided to write this account for
LIGHT in the hope that the many who have the interests of Spiritualism at heart will consider
ways and means of minimising the less desirable displays and activities which offend good
taste and common sense.
In the course of the three sittings with this Medium I can only say that I witnessed nothing
at all which could justiﬁably be accounted due to psychic activity. On the other hand, there
was nothing to prove that it was not genuine. That an inaccurate message was given to me
proves nothing beyond the fact that that particular effort at communication, if it were such,
was unsuccessful. All Mediums at times make inaccurate statements, and one would be
foolish to expect any kind of activity to be perfect continuously.
At the two voice séances the proceedings were brought to a close with prayer, which
seemed to me to be out of place on account of the tone that had prevailed throughout, there
having been a complete absence of any indication of reverence, devotion or good taste.
Two points emerge from such an experience, and they indicate what is needed. One, the
need for adequate training and development of psychic power before a Medium is launched
into professional work; the other, that in the séance room methods and habits should be
encouraged which do not hinder the best interests of Spiritualism, but help to build it up and
make it a Movement of which ordinary sensible people have no need to ﬁght shy.
—~§~—
124
Light August 1947 pages 227-231:
Direct Voice Phenomena
By BRIGADIER R. C. FIREBRACE, C.B.E.
From an Address given at the London Spiritualist Alliance on Thursday, June 26th, 1947.
THE Direct Voice is one of the most
interesting and at the same time one of
the most perplexing types of
mediumship. In fact, so great are the
difficulties which arise in connection
with it, that there are some psychical
researchers who consider that it has not
been proved that such a phenomenon
exists. I hope to show you, however, that
there are good grounds for my own
opinion that the Direct Voice is a genuine
phenomenon.
I would like ﬁrst to describe, in some
detail, one particular Direct Voice circle,
as it will serve, on general lines, as a
description of most circles. And I have
chosen the circle for which John Sloan,
of Glasgow, was the medium, as recorded
by Mr. Arthur Findlay in his book On the
Edge of the Etheric. Sloan was a working
man who all his life had been aware of
supernormal happenings in his presence.
The sittings took place in darkness and
began by Sloan taking his place at a
harmonium. On this he began to play
hymns, but before the last was over he would be controlled by an entity named
“Whitefeather,” but usually known as “Whitie.” In the centre of the circle were two trumpets
which, as the séance proceeded, ﬂoated about the room continuously, touching the sitters, and
on request touching any part of the body, such as a ﬁnger held out, without any fumbling. I
have tried to do this in darkness by normal means, and have watched other sceptics try, but
the sure touch of the trumpet cannot be imitated by fraudulent means. At times the trumpets
would ﬂy round the room at a great speed, often apparently very near the noses of the sitters,
but never hitting them. It seems that the intelligence moving the trumpets could see in the
darkness.
At times a trumpet would poise itself in front of a sitter, and he would be addressed by a
voice which, when conditions were good, would succeed in identifying himself by giving his
name and other evidential particulars. Mr. Findlay kept careful notes of 39 sittings he had
with Sloan. From these, at which 83 separate voices spoke to him or to personal friends, he
made records of 280 separate communications. Of these, he classiﬁes 182 as A.1; i.e., neither
the medium nor any person present could have known of them. 100 he classiﬁes as A.2, being
125
information which the medium could have obtained from reference books. I consider that
this is a remarkable level of accuracy and one which is not easy to attain in any form of
mediumship. Included in the evidence are items which were unknown to any of those present
and which therefore had to be veriﬁed by subsequent inquiry.
There is no doubt, to my mind, that the information given was supernormally obtained.
The question now arises as to whether it was delivered supernormally. It could have been
obtained clairvoyantly by Sloan and given out by himself in trance, or normally, a pretence
being made that it was being given through the trumpet by the alleged communicator. In
order to clear up this point, Mr. Findlay many times held the hands of the medium and put his
ear close to his mouth. He could feel his breath, but even with Findlay’s ear just touching
Sloan’s lips no sound could be heard. To exclude the possibility of collusion between Sloan
and his friends, this precaution was carried out in the rooms of the Glasgow Society for
Psychical Research, when no one was present but the medium, Mr. Findlay, and the latter’s
personal friends.
My own Direct Voice circle, which I have previously described here at some length, was
of the same general type; that is, it took place in complete darkness and the voices used a
trumpet, but there was difference, in the fact that the medium, unprofessional, was never in
trance. It took us nearly two years to develop the ﬁrst sound, although we were fortunate in
having movements of the trumpet early on. At first the voice could only make sounds, then
short words, then long words, then short sentences. After a year we arrived at a point when
we had lectures of about a thousand words, spoken clearly by the communicator; lectures on
intricate subjects beyond the powers of any of the sitters.
In his book The Blue Room, Mr. Clive Chapman describes a Direct Voice circle in New
Zealand which was always held either in daylight or in strong artiﬁcial light. At ﬁrst the voice
only sang, while Mr. Chapman played the piano. He recognized the voice, a woman’s as that
of an old friend who had had a ﬁne contralto voice in life. One evening he stopped playing in
order to hear the voice better. It sang on for a little while and then faded slowly out, and was
not resumed when he began playing the piano again. Later, other voices came, and it was
discovered that they were singing messages. Two or more voices would sing together, and
instrumental music was added; some of the instruments being unknown, and not recognized
by experienced musicians. Finally the circle obtained spoken voice communication in full
light. Chapman was instructed to play a certain piece of music, and towards the end of it the
voices would begin to speak. One feature of this circle was that voices were often heard
making asides to each other, carrying on a conversation and at times talking about the sitters.
An interesting case of voice mediumship is that of a Mrs. Blake, of America. She
normally sat in daylight for voice phenomena and used two trumpets, rather thinner than
usual, and constructed so that the broader ends ﬁtted into each other. The sitter put one end of
the joined trumpets to his ear and the medium the other to her ear, or at times against the
palm of her hand. Voices were then heard in the trumpet, at times of a strength that could be
heard at a distance of a hundred feet. Dr. J. H. Hyslop, the famous investigator, sat with Mrs.
Blake and was satisﬁed that the evidence given was supernormal. In an endeavour to discount
the supernormality of the voices, the theory was produced in certain quarters that Mrs. Blake
talked out of her ear, although it was admitted that there was no evidence that such a thing
was possible. This is an example of the lengths to which some investigators will go to avoid
the hypothesis that spirit is involved. If Mrs. Blake talking through her ear is admitted as an
126
hypothesis, I feel that I may be allowed to formulate the more credible one that some
investigators at times talk through their hats!
I think I have said enough to show that this disputed phenomenon of the Direct Voice does
really occur. It is a different and more difficult question to say how it is produced. Mr.
Findlay was told⎯and I quote from On the Edge of the Etheric: “From the medium and those
present a chemist in the spirit world withdraws certain ingredients which, for want of a better
name, is called ectoplasm. To this the chemist adds ingredients of his own making. When
these are mixed together a substance is formed which enables the chemist to materialize his
hands. With these, he then constructs a mask resembling the mouth and tongue. The spirit
wishing to speak places his face into this mask and ﬁnds that it clings to him; it gathers round
his mouth, tongue and throat. At ﬁrst difﬁculty is experienced in moving this heavier
material, but by practice this becomes easy. The etheric organs have once again become
clothed in matter resembling physical matter, and by the passage of air through them your
atmosphere can be vibrated and you hear his voice.”
This is one explanation, and there are other accounts which seem to conﬁrm it. But such
partial materializations present a difficulty. Where does the sound come from? An
explanation was given to Mr. Findlay in reply to an observation by him that he had on
occasions heard a slight hissing sound issuing from the lips of the medium. His
communicator said that from the medium’s mouth is projected a materialized ectoplasmic
tube to carry the vibrations of his larynx to the spirit speaking. The medium’s larynx is used
to vibrate the atmosphere, the spirit’s materialized mouth, throat and tongue to form the
words.
There are other statements which tend to show that the medium’s breath is used to aid in
the production of the Direct Voice. The control of a well-known Direct Voice medium, Mrs.
Everitt, claimed that he used the medium ’s breath in speaking. If Mrs. Everitt held her hand
over her mouth the volume of the voice diminished, and if she completely covered it with her
palm the voice stopped. Mrs. Everitt could never speak simultaneously with the spirits. Other
mediums have found no difﬁculty in this respect.
Archdeacon Colley relates an amusing incident with the medium Dr. Monck. The medium
was awakened from sleep to greet a materialized fellow-student. They had to speak in turn, as
there was an impasse if they tried to speak at once. Evidently they were both using some
common factor for the production of their voices. Mrs. Etta Wriedt once gave a sitting to
seven deaf mutes, with no one in the room besides herself who could utter an articulate word.
No voices were heard! That might be held to show that the vocal organs of the sitters are
drawn on for the voice, and it is true that many sitters complain that their vocal cords are tired
and hoarse after a sitting.
Other accounts of the production of the Direct Voice speak of a “voice-box,” without
going into details of exactly what is materialized. The earliest mention of such a box was by
Stainton Moses, who said: “I did not observe how the sound was made, but I saw in a distant
part of the room, near the ceiling, something like a box, round which blue electric light
played, and I associate the sound with that.’’ This description is interesting to me, as I have
seen, at a voice sitting, what purported to be a voice-box. It was ﬂoating high up in the room,
was of a luminous blue colour, and in general resembled Stainton Moses’ description. To me,
however, it seemed to be vibrating, and not so much a box in the literal sense of that word. I
have always thought of it as resembling a nautilus, or argonaut, that curious sea creature of
127
the mollusc type, which can sometimes be seen in hot waters. It seemed to be in a constant
state of pulsation.2
The voice-box in the Margery Crandon sittings has been photographed as a white mass on
the medium’s shoulder, attached to her left ear and nostril with ectoplasmic tubes. It has also
been photographed hanging from her breast. This box is certainly intimately connected with
the organism of the medium, being attached to the ear and nostril. In the case of Margery
Crandon a control machine was sometimes used. This necessitated the medium’s tightly
grasping a mouthpiece with her mouth and tongue. If she failed to do this, a luminous ﬂoat on
the top of a column of water fell, and could be detected by the observers.
So far, as regards the production of Direct Voice, we have discussed the dark sitting, in
which it is possible to imagine the creation of some materialized ectoplasmic form of
apparatus. At sittings held in light, when the trumpet is used, we may consider that the
interior of the trumpet provides sufficient darkness for the materialization of the voice-box or
mask. It is, however, in sittings of the type of the Blue Room manifestations, and with Mrs.
Blake, that I ﬁnd it difficult to credit any explanation of the mask type. So far as we know
ectoplasm it cannot stand light, at any rate for a prolonged period, and it would seem that
some other method must be used. The problem would be to devise an apparatus which could
transform vibrations of a frequency which does not affect our atmosphere into those of one
which does, and which are within the band of vibrations which we can hear. The only clue we
have is the fact that in such sittings as those of the Blue Room great stress is laid on the
necessity for vibrations of sound, e.g. music. But how these physical vibrations are used to
render audible those of the communicators we simply do not know. It is a scientiﬁc problem
which has not been solved, and one which is probably beyond the power of the amateur to
solve.
What are these voices which speak to us? Are they, as they nearly always claim to be, the
voices of the dead? I think that a study of the evidential messages which have been given by
the Direct Voice will persuade most people that there is strong evidence for the supposition
that these voices originate from what is known as the Other Side. At its best, the Direct Voice
produces evidence of the very best quality, equal or superior to that of any other form of
mediumship. Even though the voice itself may not be recognized—and it is often claimed
that the voice is recognized—the form of speech as well as its content can be most
convincing. Let me give an example.
I took a friend in the Royal Artillery with me to a sitting. He had been stationed in
Waziristan. A voice spoke to him calling him Jo and giving his own name, which was that of
a subaltern who had been shot by the Waziris. He had been in the same regiment as Jo, and
my friend is only called Jo in the regiment; it is not his name. The voice went on to ask if Jo
remembered the little girl in Murree. The communicator and Jo had spent their last leave
together in Murree, and Jo did remember the little girl! The next query as to whether he
remembered the incident with the sponge defeated Jo, who denied all knowledge of the
sponge. Three months later he wrote to me and said that he had remembered all about the
sponge. I think that is good evidence.
2
Can anyone identify where Mr Moses spoke of this box? LP
128
I have said that Direct Voice, at its best, can provide ﬁrst-class evidence of survival. It is a
very attractive form of phenomena because, for one thing, there is the hope of hearing the
actual voice of a discarnate friend. But I would like to issue a warning. The cases I have
quoted are exceptional, and really good Direct Voice mediums are very scarce. In relating
these cases I do not want to give the impression that it is easy to obtain evidence of this kind.
It is better to seek evidence through trance and other forms of mental mediumship than to
hanker after the Direct Voice simply because it appears more spectacular. The inexperienced
sitter would perhaps do better to keep away from it.
—~§~—
129
We have several times drawn the attention of readers to what is now a free on
line journal, appearing every other month from the S.N.U. and also edited by
Paul Gaunt, The Pioneer.3
This deals more particularly with the history of
the Union and its workers. Among the items in the
March 2015 issue4
is an account of Spiritualism in
Blackburn, and of Tom Tyrrell, an outstanding
mental medium little known outside Northern
England; and a discussion of local variations in
the wording of the Seven Principles, which draws
on material preserved in the Britten Museum at
Stansted.
Subscribe free:
pioneer@snu.org.uk
—~§~—
3
The Pioneer Journal: http://www.snu.org.uk/spiritualism/pioneer
4
Volume 2. No. 2 March 2015: http://www.snu.org.uk/documents/pdf/SNU%20PIONEER%2002_02.pdf
Paul J. Gaunt
130
SOME EXPERIENCES OF C.W.
LEADBEATER
Note by LP: Charles Webster Leadbeater, who died in 1934 in Australia, was perhaps the
most influential clairvoyant of his time. His books, such as The Chakras have been widely
read by Spiritualists as well as Theosophists. In 1982, Gregory Tillett published a biography
of him The Elder Brother which challenged the account he gave of his life, and the Ph.D.
thesis later awarded for this research is available in line.5
The thesis includes material not found in the earlier book. Except where stated, the thesis is
the source for the notes appended below to the account by the international Theosophical
lecturer Clara Codd of stories she heard Leadbeater tell.6
—~§~—
Reaching Sydney, I was once again in the
beloved Manor.7
Bishop Leadbeater was still
there, though older and frailer than of yore.
Lectures and meetings were soon in full
swing for me. Bishop Leadbeater was still
holding his usual Monday nights, when we all
gathered in the Refectory and he sat in a big
armchair in his red Bishop’s robes, with his
little boy pupils draped round him and his
little girls all sitting on the ﬂoor demurely
sewing. We older people sat round outside
them and were clearly not nearly so
important.
A Swedish doctor was in the Manor just
then and one Monday he asked C.W.L. about
a hunter friend of his who had had a dog he
was very devoted to before he died. The
doctor wished to know whether the dog was
‘individualized’ that is, whether through the
influence and companionship of the hunter,
his dog had developed enough to be put in
touch on the other side with a divine ego
waiting to commence a physical evolution.
For once C.W.L. said he would look and see,
though he did not generally exhibit his
5
Charles Webster Leadbeater 1854-1934 – A Biographical Study by Gregory John Tillett:
http://www.leadbeater.org/
6
So Rich a Life by Clara M. Codd 1951 pages 370-374: Pretoria, Institute for Theosophical Publicity, 1951.
7
The Manor was a private Theosophical centre in Sydney. An excellent history was lately been published as an
Occasional Paper by “Theosophical History”: The author is Nicolas Van Gelder.
https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=VoeaoAEACAAJ&dq=the+manor+theosophical+history+van+gelder&hl=en&sa=X&e
i=ITAtVfL6OoSWavHSgcAH&ved=0CCAQ6AEwAA
Charles Webster Leadbeater
131
clairvoyant powers in public. He did not pass into a trance state, he merely looked up and
waited some time. Then he exclaimed that he had found the hunter, and investigating, found
that he was not a sufﬁciently evolved man to bring about such a mighty change in his dog,
but the devotion of the dog was so complete that he would not be able to rejoin his ‘group-
soul’, the origin of collective animal instinct, until his master had returned to the next earth
life.
Sometimes, generally at the instigation of one of his children, C.W.L. would tell us
marvellous tales of his adventures when a boy in South America. His parents seemed to have
let him do whatever he wished for he told us of one occasion when he tried to go across some
peninsula alone through the jungle, as a boy of twelve. He made friends with the natives and
one of them in Peru showed him where the lost treasures of the Incas were hidden. When the
depredations of the Spanish conquerors became too frequent the Peruvians hid their treasures.
All these centuries the secret has been kept. C.W.L. told us that he was taken under water in
some big river where the mouth of a great cave was situated. Inside the cave stood great
golden ﬁgures of the ancient Incas, and piles of money and jewels. He also saw at night one
of the ancient ceremonies still performed annually by the lineal descendant of the Incas who
in daily life was a housepainter. On this one night he dons the feather cloak and the ancient
insignia of the Peruvian rulers and C.W.L., watching from the top of a hill, recognized, in
after life, that many of the symbols and signs were Masonic. Everyone knows the story of the
cruel death of his little brother8
when his father, who was building a railroad, had taken the
two boys with him on a far journey.9
They were attacked by a band of half-caste rebels. The father and servant escaped, but the
two boys were made prisoners. For refusing to stamp on the cross the little brother was cut
down by the leader, and the older boy was hung up between two saplings and had his feet
roasted by ﬁre. His father and the servant rescued him that night, as all the guards lay round
in drunken sleep, and the story of their escape through the jungle is as wonderful as any Jules
Verne tale. To the end Bishop Leadbeater carried the scars of that torture on his feet and the
marks of the bullet wounds in his leg.
He always acquired a large library, and one section was full of ghost stories. I asked him
to lend me some and he told me to come in whenever I liked and help myself. I have heard
him tell the tale of the were-wolf he saw in Scotland when a boy several times. It is so
remarkable that I will tell it again shortly here. As a youth at St. John’s College, Cambridge,
he went on a reading vacation with three other boys to the Shetlands or the Orkneys, I forget
which.10
They put up at a little hotel, and used often to wander along the high cliffs. As is common
in that part of Scotland, one day a heavy mist suddenly descended, and Mr. Leadbeater found
himself separated from his friends. Advancing cautiously he came to a cave which was full of
bones and remains of fresh meat. He supposed some crofter used it as a slaughter house. All
at once a queer-looking girl appeared. He asked her if she knew where he could put up for the
8
No historical trace of this brother has yet been found. However a Charles Leadbeater does appear with his wife
and one child arriving in Brazil in a shipping record discovered by Pedro Oliveira:
http://www.cwlworld.info/html/bio.html
9
Census data indicate that his father was a clerk or book keeper.
10
No record has been found of C.W. Leadbeater attending a university.
132
night, return to the hotel being too hazardous. She motioned him to follow her and led the
way down to a tiny two-roomed cottage on the shore. At ﬁrst the old mother would not hear
of his staying, but when, his curiosity aroused, he produced a gold coin, she could not resist
that. She began to prepare supper, and C.W.L. and the daughter sat down at the table. He
thought it must be the lengthening light for it seemed to him that he saw the girl’s face
suddenly shoot out like an animal’s snout. Supper over, the old woman shook down dried
bracken fern in the corner of the room for him to sleep on, and taking up the candle prepared
to retire into the other room, the girl meanwhile having left the house. On C.W.L.’s enquiring
where her daughter would sleep the old woman said that she would be all right.
In the middle of the night he was awakened by a great grey wolf, scrabbling at his chest.
The cottage door was wide open, and the full moon was shining in. His ﬁrst thought was
astonishment that wolves still existed in Scotland. Then he drew a bowie knife he carried and
struck at the wolf in the chest. With a savage howl the animal bounded out, and C.W.L. at
once barricaded the door with everything available. In the morning he thought the mother
looked at him very curiously, but they all sat down to breakfast. Reaching over for
something, the shawl which the girl was wearing fell apart, and C.W.L. saw a bloody mark
on her dress. The sun was now shining brightly and paying the old woman he set off on the
cliff walk to regain his hotel. As he neared the cave he heard bounding footsteps behind him.
There was the wolf. He lost consciousness and fell and the next thing he remembered was
ﬁnding his three friends bending over him. They took him back to the hotel and he was ill
with brain fever for some weeks. On recovery they all went round to the cottage on the shore,
but the occupants had ﬂed to some other part of the islands.
Another story I heard, him tell was of a queer happening when he was a little boy of ten.
His father knew very well the Victorian occultist, Bulwer Lytton, who would often come to
dinner. One evening when Bulwer Lytton was expected C.W.L. ran down to the dining-room
hoping to be able to take a sugarplum and escape with it before the elders came in.
Unfortunately he was not quite quick enough, and so had to hide under the table. Unable to
escape, he had to stay there all during the dinner. But he said he was properly punished, for
dinner being ﬁnished, his father and guest sat down to wine and cigars by fire. The subject of
their conversation he did not remember, but suddenly Bulwer Lytton rose and placed some
letters on the sideboard, and going back to his seat by the ﬁre, beckoned the letters, which
falling off the sideboard apparently by their own volition, then wriggled their way to Lytton’s
feet! Petriﬁed with fright, the small boy had to wait until the others left the room before he
could seek asylum in his nursery.11
—~§~—
Footnote from “The Masters and The Path” by Rt. Rev. C. W. Leadbeater Theosophical
Publishing House, India 1925 pages 40-41:
Madame Blavatsky has often told us how she met the Master Morya in Hyde Park,
London, in the year 1851, when He came over with a number of other Indian Princes to
attend the ﬁrst great International Exhibition. Strangely enough, I myself, then a little
child of four, saw Him also, all unknowing. I can remember being taken to see a
gorgeous procession, in which among many other wonders came a party of richly-
11
Leadbeater’s father died in 1862 from T.B., after a long illness, when the boy was about 8. It is difficult to see
how Lytton would have known the Leadbeaters. This story should be considered in relation to the one quoted
below it.
133
dressed Indian horsemen. Magniﬁcent horsemen they were, riding steeds as ﬁne, I
suppose, as any in the world, and it was only natural that my childish eyes were ﬁxed
upon them in great delight, and that they were perhaps to me the ﬁnest exhibit of that
marvellous and fairy-like show. And even as I watched them pass, as I stood holding my
father’s hand, one of the tallest of those heroes ﬁxed me with gleaming black eyes, which
half-frightened me, and yet at the same time ﬁlled me somehow with indescribable
happiness and exaltation. He passed with the others and I saw Him no more, yet often the
vision of that ﬂashing eye returned to my childish memory.
Of course, I knew nothing then of who He was, and I should never have identiﬁed
Him had it not been for a gracious remark which He made to me many years afterwards.
Speaking one day in His presence of the earlier days of the Society, I happened to say
that the first time I had had the privilege of seeing Him in materialized form was on a
certain occasion when He came into Madame Blavatsky’s room at Adyar, for the
purpose of giving her strength and issuing certain directions. He Himself, who was
engaged in conversation with some other Adepts, turned sharply upon me and said: “ No,
that was not the ﬁrst time. Do you not remember, as a tiny child, watching the Indian
horsemen ride past in Hyde Park, and did you not see how even then I singled you out?”
I remembered instantly, of course, and said: “Oh, Master, was that you? But I ought to
have known it.” I do not mention this incident among the occasions when I have met and
spoken with a Master, both parties to the interview being in the physical body, because I
did not at the time know that great horseman to be the Master, and because the evidence
of so small a child might well be doubted or discounted.12
—~§~—
About Leadbeater’s death, Lis Warwood told Psypioneer:
The West Australian (Perth, W.A.) on Friday 2 March, 1934 p. 18, noted that Leadbeater
had died, after an illness of 16 days, in the afternoon on March 1, 1934 at St Omer’s
Hospital, West Perth. Leadbeater had been travelling from India to Sydney on the ship
Mooltan, but on becoming ill, had left the ship at Fremantle and immediately entered the
private hospital where he ultimately died.
The Daily News (Perth, W.A.) March 2, 1934, p. 4, also noted that a special Requiem
Eucharist for the repose of Bishop Leadbeater was to be held on Sunday (March 4) at the
Liberal Catholic Church in Brewer Street, East Perth, and that the celebrant would be
Rev. Harold Morton, who had travelled to Perth from Sydney on learning of
Leadbeater’s illness.
The Sydney Morning Herald recorded on 22 November, 1934 (p. 6) that Leadbeater left
an estate of just £69, and that it had been necessary to take out probate on Leadbeater’s
will, as he was trustee of certain church land in New South Wales. Leadbeater
bequeathed his ecclesiastical vestments to (Rev.) Harold Morton (of Mosman, a Sydney
suburb) and his rights to royalties on certain books to Curuppumullege Jinarajadara, of
Adyar, Madras, and to the Theosophical Headquarters at Adyar.
—~§~—
12
Leadbeater consistently represented himself as being born in 1847, the same year as his colleague Annie
Besant, but his birth certificate shows he was born in 1854 in Stockport. The Great Exhibition was in 1851.
134
WAITE AND SPIRITUALISM
Note by LP. The mystical writer Arthur Edward Waite is largely forgotten today, despite a
wonderfully researched biography by R.A. Gilbert: Magician of Many Parts (1987). But he
has some claim to be a pioneer of Spiritualism.
Light June 4th 1942 page 180:
MR. A. E. WAITE
So the leader has left us! The
Master-mind has ascended: to what
lofty spheres of intelligence who
will venture to hazard an opinion?
But we do not hesitate to state our
opinion as to Waite’s legacy to
mankind. It is a very great
inheritance, and one that (we are
convinced) will continue to
appreciate largely in value as time
passes.
To the eloquent appreciation of
this great man from the pen of Mr.
Lewis Spence, which we publish,
we would add only this: That
Waite achieved before the close of
his long earthly life the reward of
his labours in that exalted mental
atmosphere to which he had toiled
and attained. The latter chapters of
the great book, Shadows of Life
and Thought, which is his
autobiography, point clearly to his
achievement of the Quest.
C.R.C.
(Charles Richard Cammell Editor of Light)13
13
For more on Mr Cammell’s editorial fate, see Psypioneer June 2011:
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.6June2011.pdf
135
ARTHUR EDWARD WAITE: AN APPRECIATION
By LEWIS SPENCE
Page 181:
THE greatest British master of the Occult in our time has passed beyond the pronaos of
that temple with whose mysteries he was so familiarly occupied while still in the ﬂesh.
The witness to his vast knowledge of the psychical and supernatural remains with us in
what may be described as a veritable treasury of personal literature, rich in distinction,
remarkably individual expression, and disclosing a ripeness of erudition which might
cast lustre on the mystical exposition of any age. Regarding this monumental
performance as a whole, one need not hesitate to hail its begetter as equal in arcane
fellowship with the most celebrated exponents of British mysticism, with Roger Bacon,
Robert Fludd, and Thomas Vaughan, whose writings, indeed, his own equalled in
profundity and spiritual authority, while in genuine expository trenchancy and value they
frequently surpass them.
For it was as a demonstrator of occult philosophy, a guide among the labyrinthine
windings of mystical literature, that Arthur Edward Waite chieﬂy surpassed. Early in life
he acquired by patient study and meditation that extraordinary and seemingly flawless
knowledge of arcane literature which was to stand him in such stead when later he
approached editorial and critical labours of a scope which only a long life of arduous toil
and devotion to his subject could have carried to fruition. So various, indeed, are the
occult themes at which he wrought that their totality seems more the work of a body of
scholars, than the single efforts of an individual writer. Rosicrucianism, the vast and
tormented problem of the Holy Grail, the mysteries of Freemasonry, the Kabbalah,
mediaeval magic, to mention only a few of the topics with which his researches were
associated, were all treated with that illuminating perspicuity and masterly touch which
revealed itself in all he wrote, and his conclusions were invariably sound and responsive
to logical sentiment.
Doubtless we have all experienced a momentary sense of disappointment in perusing
certain works of the master, have felt midway in his pages that we have arrived at an
impasse where it was either impossible to follow his argument, or to penetrate the
profundities of a style which certainly had preferences for the obscure. It is, indeed, the
bane of mystical literary performance, that it must continually remain in dread of a
revelation which it dare not make. By critics in a hurry, Waite has been charged with
obscurity and preciosity. These censors have, of course, defeated their own case by an
argument so jejune, manifesting a lack of knowledge of the tendency of occult revelation
with which an acquaintance with the writings of the masters of arcane science would
have equipped them. What is so often mistaken for obscurity in Waite’s writings is
brought about by the supreme difficulty of linking up those passages which convey such
material as may be revealed, while veiling or omitting that which cannot, in its entirety,
be included, but which must still be suggested in order that coherence may be achieved.
It is as though the translator of a work in a foreign tongue were prohibited from
rendering important and even vital parts of his original into the equivalent English, and
must content himself with unsatisfactory generalities. Waite’s ability to triumph over this
difficulty has never been equalled in the annals of arcane writing, and those who attribute
to him a wilful or affected obscurity can realise little of his extraordinary aptness in
abridgement and what might be called the précis of occluded essentials.
136
More accurate is the claim that he fails to enlighten his reader, even a knowledgeable
reader, as regards the tendency and fundamentals of his argument. In nearly all his works
we reach a point when he seems to be marking time, where the keenest disappointment is
occasioned by the manner in which he keeps us in anxious suspense, while he marches
onward in almost incoherent processional prose. His grip is not to be questioned. He
knew his material far too well for that. It was his inability to present a clear and well
built up picture of a movement, an epoch, a philosophic or mystical ideal which here
betrayed him. Had he had in his composition even a suspicion of Moteley, Prescott or
Gibbon, the ‘pictorial’ historians, many of his pages would have been greatly more
perspicuous. He is essentially and by nature the least exact and perspicuous of writers.
Even so, his summaries and conclusions are most excellent and valuable. He is not
wilfully obscure. He is merely caught up in a turgid, stylistic meandering of his own
devising.
In no place is this lack of the visual and the panoramic so noticeable as in his two
works upon the Holy Grail, The Hidden Church of the Holy Grail and The Holy Grail, its
Legends and Symbolism. The narrative concerning the texts which compose this corpus
is not well-knit, and its operosity is apparent in the poverty of its exegetical conclusions.
The long drawn nature of these accounts and summaries, and the occasional inexactitude
or indeﬁniteness of entire passages, especially those which are comparative or
analogical, rob the subject of its native mystery. Across the landscape of both books
there hangs a fog which is not that of mysticism but which arises out of lack of creative
purpose, and absence of synthesis. A comparison of Waite’s work in this ﬁeld with that
of Miss J. L. Weston reveals his inferiority in exegetical expertise, rambling as much of
Miss Weston’s output certainly is. An apprenticeship in a more or less exact science,
such as Folk Lore, would have served him well when he came to deal with such topics.
If I cannot ﬁnd myself in agreement with Mr. Waite’s conclusions in his The True
History of the Rosicrucians—believing that body to be of much older provenance than he
considers it—I am at least able to admire wholeheartedly the profound erudition it
manifests, as does its sequel, The Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross. Nor may I speak of his
encyclopaedic works on the subject of Freemasonry, to which sodality I have not the
keys. Of capital importance to the study of Magic are his translations of the works of
Eliphas Lévi, The History of Magic and Transcendental Magic, the second of which is
the most illuminating compendium extant of the processes and rites of ritual Magic
which we possess. No better guide to the intricacies of the thaumaturgic art exists.
Mr. Waite also enriched the study of Alchemy by treatises which not only have
removed obstacles from the path of many a student, but which remain monuments of
alchemical exposition. The Lives of the Alchemists, an early essay, is at once the most
romantic and the most illuminating study which we possess in English, not only of the
material and spiritual processes of the grand quest, but as regards its notable
protagonists, while. The Turba Philosophorum, a symposium of ancient alchemical
writings, is explanatory of much that would remain otherwise vague and baffling.
Lesser, but by no means unimportant works, are The Magical Writings of Thomas
Vaughan, which is prefaced by a most valuable introduction upon the history and
development of Western Magic since Alexandrian times, and Devil-worship in France, a
delicious parody of the ﬁn-de-siècle French publications which dramatically presuppose
the existence of Satanism in alcoves the most unlikely and preposterous.
137
Nor must the vast adventure of making plain the philosophy of Paracelsus, The Life
and Writings of Paracelsus, be forgotten. This immense task, accomplished with address
and the graces of scholarship, remains, I think, the most achieved work of English occult
literature which has appeared in these latter days.
In his Collected Poems, published in two volumes, Mr. Waite gathered the poetical
output of a long and devoted career. Graceful, endowed with purity of form and
marmoreal in line and sculpture, these are, as might be expected, chieﬂy on themes
mystical and arcane, white ﬂowers blossoming out of the sacred soil of devotional
meditation.
For generations another such as Arthur Edward Waite may not appear upon the
English occult scene. Let us thank God who gave him to us. He was a great mystic, a
great master and exponent of Magical Science, and a great man.
—~§~—
However, for his significance to Spiritualism, we must turn once more to Miss Phillimore.
Light June 25th 1942 page 207:
L.S.A. COMMENTS AND RECORDS
BY MERCY PHILLIMORE
ARTHUR EDWARD WAITE
ALTHOUGH a most interesting appreciation of Arthur Edward Waite has appeared in
this journal from the pen of Mr. Lewis Spence, I cannot refrain from making a further
reference to such a dear friend of LIGHT and of the Alliance as A.E.W., now that he has
passed beyond.
The aspect of his personality which I knew so well, was other than that which is
revealed in his literary work. Arthur Edward Waite was a delightful human being, serene
in manner, with a disposition to approach ordinary things, and comment on them, with a
tender humour. His voice and laughter had that quality that instantly brings out the
sweetness of human association.
One of my earliest recollections is of a winter about the year 1916, when he was
writing, by request of a publisher, a book on the Philosophy of Andrew Jackson Davis.
This book does not bear his name as author. He was not sympathetic to the seership and
writings of Davis, and pretended to be overborne with weariness at the task. He used to
come fairly often to our library to borrow and consult the Davis books. This was at our
old rooms in St. Martin’s Lane. The Davis books were housed in a room on the top shelf
close to the ceiling. He usually came late in the afternoon. The room was lighted by low-
hanging, shaded lamps. He would climb dangerously to the top of a none-too-robust
ladder, and perched, high up in the dimness, would browse on the books; from time to
time deep groans would amuse us, groans to remind us of how bored he was. Although
Davis was not for A.E.W., he was and is a storehouse of knowledge and wisdom for
others.
138
Once again let me recall Mr. Waite’s gay remark, made with a big sigh, in comment
on something peculiarly surprising: “The universe is not without an element of
waggery.’’
Knowing that he could not long be with us, I went down to Canterbury, as recently as
March this year, to see him, as I guessed, for the last time. An artist, too, should have
gone to put on canvas what I saw. Mr. Waite was wearing a bright-coloured ﬂowered
dressing gown; his handsome features had become more sharply deﬁned, and were set
off by longish, silvery hair. It was, fortunately, one of his good days. He was prepared to
talk, and I have kept notes of the conversation. This is one of the things he said which
will interest our readers: “The most important and desperate need of the time is the
proving of Survival. If only a Spiritualist would begin a chronological production of
attested cases of evidence. I should like to see one old and one new case of evidence of
Survival each week in LIGHT!”
It is not at all easy to get attested cases of evidence, so please let this be a reminder to
those who can give such information that to do so is a service to others.
Waite’s autobiography was somewhat discursive, but below are the main passages on
Spiritualism:14
Shadows of Life and Thought
Arthur Edward Waite
Pages 57-58:
“.......my wanderings had taken me once to the crowded purlieus of Edgware Road,
and in the side-window of a corner pork-butcher’s shop I had seen displayed to my
astonishment a few copies of the Medium and Daybreak, a journal devoted to Modern
Spiritualism. Having long contemplated the columns of a front page, I went in to
purchase a copy, taking care to address him whom I assumed to be the master rightly, a
tall, broad, expansive personality, with goodwill inscribed upon him. My youth and
nervous hesitation must have drawn him towards one shewing thus early an interest in
subjects which were evidently near to his heart. He told me of trance orations, of spirits
assuming material forms, of dead men coming back, and probably gave me two or three
elementary pamphlets, brought forth from a drawer beneath one of his counters. It is
remembered to this day that I emerged from that talk with a vague feeling that all this
was like a story of which I had heard previously; that it was not strange and new; that it
was rooted in the likelihood of things rather than abnormal and far beyond the ken.
I had been referred evidently for means of further knowledge to the offices of the
Spiritistic paper in question, and thither I fared accordingly, namely, to Southampton
Row, where I made a speaking acquaintance with James Burns, proprietor, printer and
editor of the Medium and Daybreak. It proved among other things that he had begun to
reprint Anacalypsis in crown octavo and had contrived a first volume, when the
enterprise was held up for want of funds. My visit was repeated on several occasions,
and I was like one beginning to awaken, while many hands beckoned me, as if from
doors ajar. Is it because of the rapid things which followed hereon that dates and times
14
Shadows of Life and Thought by Arthur Edward, Waite Selwyn & Blount, London 1938.
139
and places are confused together in memory? There must be a leap in the dark no doubt
over certain moons to reach another stage.
Page 60-62:
There came a time when I could almost say that I was acquainted sufficiently with the
whole output of Spiritism, so far as England, America and France were concerned. I
speak of books chieﬂy, but there were Journals also, La Revue Spirite in France, sub
nomine Allan Kardec, who founded that monthly and it is still, I believe, flourishing. In
the States there was the Banner of Light, and many others came after it. Light had been
founded in England, with Stainton Moses as Editor,15
while W. H. Harrison, a born
journalist of his period, evidently owned as well as conducted The Spiritualist. I met him
once only, at the rooms of Captain James, about whom I shall speak later, and liked him
well. But his enterprise came to grief, having exhausted whatever funds were collected to
start it. I was seven-league boots’ distance from anything like belief, either in the alleged
facts of Spiritism or in its super-mundane revelations; but certain works carried a fairly
strong appeal; and if there were time for everything I should like to read them again, far
as I am from any living concern in “veridic hallucinations”, or whither they lead
recipients in hypotheses of the other life.
The Footfalls on the Boundaries of Another World, by Robert Dale Owen, has really a
happy title; and though I do not know that it carries much better warrants than the
delightful Night Side of Nature, by Catherine Crow, [sic Crowe- Pp.] it is written with
utter sincerity in a very pleasant manner, while its general appeal is illustrated by the
eloquent fact that the London Journal, that Queen of the Byways, almost a twin-sister of
the Family Herald, took French leave, owing to the rottenness of copyright law, and ran
it from week to week in its columns. No doubt it rejoiced the parlour-maids and
shopkeepers’ wives by thousands; and it is not unlikely that the “cause” itself was
helped.
But there was also “From Matter to Spirit,” a very different work, prefaced by
Augustus de Morgan and said to have been written by his wife, in which case I should
think that the Master Mathematician overlooked those pages. Surely they savour a little
of him who wrote a certain Budget of Paradoxes.
It was another kind of satisfaction to make acquaintance with Napoleon B. Wolfe and
his Startling Facts in Modern Spiritualism, because of its caustic wit and trenchant
criticisms of trance orators, like Emma Harding [sic Hardinge – Pp.] and Cora Tappan.
Their number was legion in America, even in those days. Wolfe, however, had a comedy
on his own side, owing to a group of spirits testifying continually from the other side, at
his own séances, that they and no others were arranging to produce in materialised forms
the whole deceased Napoleonic Dynasty in the face of day. But Napoleon B. Wolfe
crossed over willy-nilly and met them possibly there, for they never came here.
Finally, to make an end of these pleadings for the time being, there was the notable
and rather beloved personality of Colonel Olcott, who, before he became the Founder
and ﬁrst President of the Theosophical Society, had produced his People from the Other
World—in or near 1870—assuredly more amazing and more startling than the diatribes
and promised pageant of N. B. Wolfe. In the wide world of phenomenal records there is
15
Psypioneer readers will not need reminding that Moses did edit LIGHT for a time, but not initially. LP.
140
nothing to compare with the materialisations of that volume. One after another, séance
after séance, in the homestead room for circles or in the open air of the violet nights,
those “people” came in crowds. And dear old Olcott took it nearly all in good faith and
told it in all simplicity.
“That is best which lies the nearest” is an old adage, and perhaps for this reason
Spiritism was for long my chief concern, in case I could “bring it to book”, as the Hon.
Roden Noel, another inquirer, termed it. It seems to me that I had a considerable faculty
in my studies for extracting the quintessence of books, and it remained with me. I
followed a star also, which took me to the best of their kind, though forgotten now for
the most part by all. One among many such was by another American, Dexter, seriously
reﬂective on phenomena, careful and even acute. He was to be preferred before Judge
Edmonds, who attracted greater notice.
On the other hand, I misdoubted from the beginning, and for long, the chief prophet
of the subject across the Atlantic, namely, Andrew Jackson Davis, always excepting one
curiously pregnant fact, that whether or not he dictated Nature’s Divine Revelations in
deep trance, as claimed, it is quite clear that some few years prior to the epoch-making
Rochester Knockings, a complete theory and presentation of the hither hereafter, or life
on the other side, was set forth in those volumes. When the dead came back at
Hydesville and otherwhere, when a hundred weekly and monthly journals seemed
insufficient to contain the messages given forth in circles and in controlled discourses,
their pictures of the other world did nothing but reproduce, underscore and perchance
extend the Davis unfoldings about the Summer Land. I have not heard that anyone save
myself has noticed this; but it stands beyond question. The sin of the Poughkeepsie
Seer’s later days was that he wrote anything further. His life was passed in spoiling the
Divine Revelations, much as Philip James Bailey, a born poet of his class, expended
some ﬁve and thirty years of his subsequent span in spoiling Festus. I am prepared even
now to affix his thesis to the portal of the first Spiritist University—wheresoever built
and opened—and to maintain it against all comers. It does not signify that there is any
brief in my hands for the Revelations as such; but they made Spiritism before it
happened to be born. The rest of the sorry Davis output can be thrown over among the
rubbish, with his Diakkas, and “their earthly victims” as first and chief in the condemned
pile.
It remains to be said that the horizon opened by Spiritism, as of another world and its
prospects, and of the possibility in earthly life of belonging in a sense to both, led me
further away from the notion of an Infallible Church which offered Hell opened to
Christians in place of Eternal Hope. I beheld on the further side, in the so-called hither
hereafter, a place where men can dwell and healed by slow degrees of all their hurts can
find new life in new and other work, world without end, because of endless worlds.
Page 68:
My detached but somewhat earnest concerns in Spiritism, because of its bare
possibilities, did not change or diminish: they grew unawares within me, as I was drawn
further in the direction of that occult lore to which I have alluded brieﬂy. If the putative
occult sciences covered by that ﬁeld were paths leading to experimental knowledge, then
Spiritism belonged thereto and was perchance the key thereof, even as the magnetic
trance was a key to so much that passed under the name of Spiritism. Now it happened
that much as I hated my odd volume of Isis Unveiled, for the reason given, it was helpful
141
as an omnium gatherum of esoteric claims and pretences, a miscellany of magic and its
connections, with the sole exception of Alchemy, in which I cannot recall that H. P. B.
ever evinced any personal interest.
Pages 71-73:
Is there anyone, I wonder, in England, who has met with an American book which
was called Ghostland, being the unﬁnished biography of a certain Chevalier de B., and—
for the rest—the record of alleged “Researches into the Mysteries of Occult Spiritism”.
This was the after-title, and this had a spell of power which worked wondrous well in my
particular case. Did I not know Spiritism at ﬁrst hand, so to speak, in respect of what
may be called its memoirs, having never had much chance or proﬁt among its visible
signs and happenings? But my dear old friend, J. M. Watkins, a beloved publisher,
whose shop is emblazoned all over, within and without, on the hither side and the
further, with Signs, Sigils and Talismans, telling of Great Mysteries, will assuredly
remember Ghostland. It may be he alone, since Mead left us to explore more deeply the
approximate hereafter on its own ground. There is a record that, according to Mead,
Ghostland was the inward side of the life of Lord Lytton, the Chevalier de B. answering
obviously to Bulwer. You will remember, some of you, those age-old ribald lines:
“And Bulwer-Lytton, Lytton-Bulwer erst,
Unseen amidst a metaphysic fog,
Howls melancholy homage to the moon.”
If Watkins wishes, it can rest for ever at this; but Mead’s explanation will not work in
fact. The character sketch in Ghostland which passes for the Chevalier de B. is that of a
“poor creature”, after all is said, and does not respond to the ﬁrst Lord Lytton, however
we choose to regard the once “familiar face” of him whom Tennyson called in his terriﬁc
derision, “the padded man that wears the stays”. This was long prior to Zanoni and
doubtless also to a certain evocation on the roof of the London Pantheon.
Lytton Bulwer’s son, Owen Meredith, ﬁrst Earl of Lytton, told me too brieﬂy about it
in a letter long after 1881 and his father’s death. I hoped that Zanoni and the Strange
Story were not ﬁction utterly, but if they were that there might be a kernel of fact in the
“Records of Occult Spiritism”, notwithstanding the utter absence of local colouring to
encourage the notion that Chevalier de B. had ever lived in India, to say nothing of other
places. I am brought in this manner to recall that the alleged records are a story with a
past, and firstly that its appearance in print was sponsored by Emma Harding Britten,
whom we have met with prior to her marriage, in connection with certain diatribes of
Napoleon B. Wolfe, when she was Emma Harding only, ﬁguring as a trance medium and
reproached for such pretence in the author’s Startling Facts.
It is just to add that some years after, and when all concern over the occult triad under
notice had ﬁnally passed away, I heard—at its value—from Dr. Maurice Davies that he
had known the lady in England when she was ﬁguring badly as an actress. Later on he
came across her again, when she was speaking under “spirit inﬂuence” and was almost
disposed to believe in her trance-obsessions because of the vital difference between her
two rôles. However this may be, the supposed “autobiographical sketches” produced in
Ghostland appeared originally in “The Western Star”, a magazine published at Boston,
U.S.A., under the editorship of Mrs. Britten. This was in 1872, and the periodical in
question lasted for six numbers, when “disastrous Boston ﬁres” put an end to its
142
existence. The activities of the Chevalier were suspended also till circa 1874, when there
was issued by subscription, under the same auspices, a substantial volume entitled Art
Magic, otherwise, “Mundane, Sub-Mundane and Super-Mundane Spiritism”. A crowded
title-page explained further that the twenty-three sections dealt—among other subjects—
with the different Orders of Spirits in the Universe and gave directions for “invoking,
controlling and discharging spirits”.
The sections mentioned are grouped into three parts. The ﬁrst embodies an account of
the Jewish Kabbalah, being the work of a person who has not an elementary notion of
what he is talking about. It affirms also that the Songs of Orpheus, the doctrines of
Pythagoras and Plato’s philosophy are “digests” of Kabbalistic Wisdom. The second part
discusses Magic in Egypt, Magic in India, Magic in China and elsewhere. It is
preposterous rubbish throughout, in so far as it does not include citations from readily
accessible sources. The methods of invoking, controlling and discharging spirits are
reserved for the third part, the originals being Cornelius Agrippa, Peter de Abano,
Paracelsus, and the notorious magical Grimoires. Such are the qualiﬁcations of the
Chevalier dc B.; of such are his “Mundane, Sub-Mundane and Super-Mundane
Spiritism”. Finally, Mrs. Britten has told us, in her preface to Ghostland (I) that its
autobiographical sketches were “written originally in German”, but, as she did not know
that language, the Chevalier put them for her beneﬁt into “rough English”; and (2) that
they were written, like Art Magic, partly in French and partly in English, for the same
reason. In the dilemma of this lapsus memoriae I am content to leave the question
whether the Chevalier lived only in the second-rate and typically feminine imagination
of Emma Harding because, in the universe of evidential things, there was no room for
him anywhere else.
—~§~—
143
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages
294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan the Mystery Show Trial,by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ – a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback
ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry
H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45Psypioneer references by
Leslie Price pages 39-42:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009.
ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-056667-
1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
144
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue, or to contact Psypioneer please e-mail:
psypioneersub@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
