{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v11_n6-7__jun-jul_2015.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V11 N6-7  Jun-Jul 2015","mylang":"de"}
145
F
—~§~—
—~§~—
146 – Spirit Drawings by Georgiana Houghton – reported by Garth Willey
150 – Georgiana Houghton, Medium and Daybreak – sourced by Lis Warwood
152 – William Crookes and Madame Blavatsky – Notes by the Way – Leslie Price
156 – The Russell Connection – Reuniting Parents with their Children in the Spirit
World through Physical & Trance Mediumship - Gwen Byrne (Book review by
Steve Hume)
158 – A Voice from Beyond - Séance Conversation in Icelandic – Sigurdur Arnalds
160 – Stainton Moses Returns, Painfully – Katharine Bates
163 – Association of Art Historians 41st
Annual Conference Session 19: Modernism,
Occultism and Evolution – Lynda Harris
165 – William Oxley – The Two Worlds
172 – Paraffin Wax Moulds – Campbell Holms
176 – Wax Gloves Procured from Materialized Hands – Hewat McKenzie
179 – Wax Spirit Moulds – Reviewed for the SPR by: Tom Ruffles
181 – Some books we have reviewed
182 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
Psypioneer is now being published every other month
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
Established 2004
Volume 11, No. 06/7: June – July 2015
146
Spirit Drawings by Georgiana Houghton1
Featured in an exhibition portraying Spiritualist practices:
‘BELIEVE NOT EVERY SPIRIT, BUT TRY THE SPIRITS’2
Monash University Museum of Art, Melbourne
Report by Garth Willey
Photo courtesy of Monash University Museum of Art
Various articles on, and references to, have been made regarding Georgiana Houghton and
her art in past Psypioneer Journals (please use the Search facility on Woodlandway.org if you
wish to check them out).
One of the intriguing things about Houghton’s art was its ownership and dispersal after her
death on 24 March, 1884. She had exhibited 155 works at a London art gallery in Bond
Street in 1871 and one might safely assume that there were many more fine works produced
subsequently. A little research by Lis Warwood has turned up an article in The Medium and
Daybreak, No. 732 Vol. XV April 11, 1884 and the full transcript follows as a separate item.
With reference to Houghton’s estate, it states:
“It is to be regretted that she made no disposition of her effects. Some steps should be
taken to have the full collection of her drawings preserved in some public institution. They
1
Georgiana Houghton (1814-1884)
2
Monash University Museum of Art (MUMA), Melbourne, 21 April – 27 June
http://monash.edu/muma/exhibitions/2015/believe-not-the-spirits.html
147
are well worthy of such care, and as an example of highly artistic work, produced without
the usual artistic effort or experience, they are truly wonderful, and a great psychological
curiosity… The relatives not knowing her spiritualistic friends, and the most intimate
being abroad, but little notice could be given to the Movement of the decease and funeral.”
In 1910, 26 years later, some 35 of her drawings were shipped to Australia. It appears that no
significant public exhibition ever occurred and the works were never returned to England.
The drawings became the possession/property of the Victorian Spiritualists’ Union (VSU – a
1930 amalgamation of The Victorian Association of Spiritualists and the Melbourne
Progressive Spiritualistic Lyceum3
) but trace of whether they came by them directly or
indirectly has not been discovered.
For many years the pencil drawings and watercolours apparently remained in their boxes
until the VSU displayed them along the walls of its upstairs chapel sometime after it acquired
new city premises in A’Beckett Street around 1960. In 2014 the drawings were boxed up
again and sent to Monash University for an exhibition in the shorter term and then safe
keeping pending the sale of the VSU’s premises and their eventual relocation.4
Monash University Museum of Art (MUMA) staff had noted that the drawings had been
preserved in amazingly excellent condition – likely due to the thick stone/concrete walls of
the upstairs chapel that was left in darkness when not being used.
MUMA Director, Charlotte Day, and her guest curators Lars Bang Larsen and Marco Pasi
were also amazed that such work should have been done some 40 years or more ahead of
abstract art becoming recognised in the art world. Bang Larsen and Pasi’s interest in
Houghton’s drawings was the impetus for an exhibition of “contemporary and historical
painting, sculpture, video and photography that both explore and adopt Spiritualist practices.”
Although Leslie Price had paved the way for me to arrange a private tour with Charlotte Day
(he’d had a meeting with her at the College of Psychic Studies in May) I went along to
inspect the Exhibition on 10th June without an appointment: And rather synchronistically, I
walked in the front door to find Charlotte just about to begin a very private and personal tour
for a party of 5 people (including her own mother and sister) into which she welcomed me.
We were both delighted!
Houghton’s drawings are quite amazing. By far, they outshone most of the supporting
exhibits, many of which were not done under spirit control (nor claimed to be). The fine and
flawless detail is incredible. And, unknown to me before the sighting, the backs of about half
of them are covered in automatic writing by the spirit controls: introducing themselves and
describing and interpreting their drawings. The deliberate display of the drawings on plate
glass stands (see introductory photo) enabled viewing of both sides – and MUMA is to be
congratulated on the presentation.
3
See http://vsu.org.au/history
4
See http://www.smh.com.au/business/victorian-spiritualists-union-to-sell-historic-sandstone-building-20150324-
1m6gfz.html and http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/property/vic-office-sale-71-73-abeckett-street-melbourne/story-
fnitinnf-1227353068277
148
Some of the texts are quite long. The control authors/artists vary – as do the styles – and it is
unknown if Houghton was the automatist or, perhaps, the inspirational writer. Inspection and
comment by an expert on handwriting may be quite revealing.
The drawings are presented in date order; and the reverse side writings reveal the changes of
control over the 20 years or so that she worked with them (1860s onwards).
I’m sorry I did not take any photos, if indeed I were allowed, especially of the automatic
writings. But when I enquired if they had all been digitalised, Charlotte said she would be
interested to do so if the VSU hadn’t, and with their approval. However, a few of the photos
are available, courtesy of the VSU, on http://artguide.com.au/articles-page/show/believe-not-
every-spirit-but-try-the-spirits-2 and 2 of them are reproduced hereunder:
The Glory of the Lord (detail), c. 1861–1869 The Eye of the Lord (detail), c. 1861–1869
The experience of seeing these abstract Spirit Drawings once more (I’d seen them before at
the VSU but not seen the backs nor pondered the intent) was somewhat of a revelation. To
me, now, they portray patterns of energy – frequencies, vibrations, wavelengths – and
immediately struck a chord (no pun intended!) with my recently coming to a much better
understanding of “post-material science5
.” That is, sub atomic quantum mechanics/quantum
theories, the holographic universe principles, multiple and parallel universes, warped two-
dimensional planes even, etc.! Indeed, one is coming to the inescapable view that everything
that is, is a ‘web of existence’ overseen by Consciousness and experienced by our personal
consciousness – which in turn is capable of self-generating progression… and resulting in
generating things like synchronistic experiences!
5
See the Scientific and Medical Network’s Manifesto for a Post-Materialist Science at
https://www.scimednet.org/content/manifesto-post-materialist-science
149
And having experienced what might well be a truly synchronistical meeting time with
Charlotte Day, and then been bold enough to write of it, what do I subsequently read in The
Medium and Daybreak article but:
In all spiritual affairs Miss Houghton saw coincidents, which were to her mind highly
significant. Days, events, times, seasons, forms, &c., were to her the alphabet of a
language from which she derived great instruction…
Had Carl Jung preceded her, Georgiana might well have used the word ‘synchronicities’
instead of ‘coincidents.’
And I don’t doubt that wherever Georgiana is now, she is chortling over the bonus play on
Charlotte’s surname Day, the use of the word ‘Days,’ in the weekly newspaper Medium and
Daybreak over 130 years ago!
GAW
Postscript:
With this issue of PP about to be finalised, I chanced to read, a little belatedly, in the Society
for Psychical Research’s quarterly Paranormal Review Issue 74 for Spring, 2015 (pp32,33)
an article Ghosts in the Machines by Brandon Hodge6
– a foremost authority on planchettes
and automatic writing devices. Lo and behold, in tracing the early origins of planchettes, he
refers to Georgiana Houghton’s Evenings at Home in Spiritual Séance7
wherein she wrote of
having purchased a planchette in 1861 from a Mr Welton “who was then the only maker [of
planchettes]” in March of that year.
Now, one of the supporting exhibits portraying Spiritualist practices in the MUMA exhibition
was a jumbled array of the letters of the alphabet and numbers 0 to 9 – beginning with ‘yes’
and ending with ‘no’ and in sizes varying from about 40cms to 80cms and at non-uniform
angles – and spread around the corner of one of the rooms. Charlotte Day explained that it
portrayed a Ouija board; and I detected she had pronounced it ‘Ouiji.’ So I regaled our little
group that it was ‘Ouija’ – being the French ‘oui’ meaning ‘yes’ in English and the German
‘ja’ being ‘oui’ in French. That is: the “Yes, Yes” board – and that it may have been because
board ‘communicators’ had a reputation for feeding the enquirers just whatever they wanted
to hear. Maybe, also, the French realised the English connotations of calling it a ‘oui oui’
board! Understandably, some participants may wet themselves!
In tracing the origins of the devices Brandon Hodge notes that ‘planchette’ is French for
‘little board’ – and so is a clue that the origins were French; and indeed his trail ends with the
Baudin family in Paris in 18538
. But unfortunately he does not conjecture as to how the name
‘Ouija’ was a composite of French and German: perhaps he is more discreet than me.
—~§~—
6
Brandon Hodge is a collector, historian, and occult researcher residing in Austin, Texas. He curates the
world’s largest collection of planchettes and automatic writing devices (www.mysteriousplanchette.com).
7
Georgiana Houghton’s Evenings at Home in Spiritual Séance7
, London: E W Allen, 1882, p.7.
8
Alan Kardec, Spiritualist Philosophy: The Spirits Book, trans. Anne Bkackwell (Boston, Colby & Rich, 1893),
p. x.
150
The Medium and Daybreak 9
‘Notes and Comments’
The late Miss Georgiana Houghton’s funeral took place at Highgate Cemetery on Monday.
Next week we will give a memoir, which space would not permit our doing justice to this
week.
The Medium and Daybreak 10
Georgiana Houghton
This well-known Spiritualist passed away on the morning of Monday, March 24th, nearly
seventy years of age, after having lain for several weeks in a hopeless state of paralysis. For
the last six days of her existence in the body she was unconscious and incapable of action.
From the first the stroke was regarded as fatal by the medical attendant, but Miss Houghton
had such a strong hope in being able to complete her literary task by the publication of
another volume, that she would not hear of any such a thing as immediate transition from the
body.
It is not necessary that we give a detailed account of her experiences of Spiritualism, as these
may be abundantly gleaned from her recent volumes, ‘Evenings at Home in Spiritual
Séance,’ and her work on ‘Spirit Photography,’ which we noticed at length at the time of its
publication. But Miss Houghton in addition to being a most remarkable medium, was a very
public-spirited woman, and her name and influence in the Cause were known far and near. A
letter from her pen appeared on the first page of the MEDIUM as a weekly paper, fourteen
years ago to-day, so that we have to regard her as one of our very earliest contributors and
correspondents. In all other public phases of the Movement she was equally active.
It was as a drawing medium that Miss Houghton was most distinctly known. Her style of
drawing has never been exactly attained by any one, though some of her pupils have in a
great degree succeeded in the production of similar pictures. They are chiefly monograms,
consisting of a labyrinth of involved lines of different colours, producing a remarkable and
highly pleasing appearance. Many years ago, she made an exhibition of them in a gallery in
Bond Street. The effect of the whole when contemplated was of a very soothing character.
Miss Houghton was in the habit of holding a developing class or circle, for the impartation of
this drawing ability to suitable persons. Some of these pupils have attained to great
proficiency; they will greatly miss their preceptress.
To the subject of spirit photography through the mediumship of Mr. Hudson, Miss Houghton
paid undivided attention all the time that Mr. Hudson was in practice. Her experiences,
illustrated with upwards of fifty examples of spirit photographs, are fully given in the volume
bearing on the subject.
9
No. 731 Vol. XV April 4, 1884 p. 216.
10
No. 732 Vol. XV April 11, 1884 p. 234.
151
In all spiritual affairs Miss Houghton saw coincidents, which were to her mind highly
significant. Days, events, times, seasons, forms, &c., were to her the alphabet of a language
from which she derived great instruction, though few could follow her expositions. Her
drawings she interpreted in a similar manner, giving them a theological symbolism. It is to be
regretted that she made no disposition of her effects. Some steps should be taken to have the
full collection of her drawings preserved in some public institution. They are well worthy of
such care, and as an example of highly artistic work, produced without the usual artistic effort
or experience, they are truly wonderful, and a great psychological curiosity. Her dove,
brought to her by the spirits, and which she had stuffed, was placed in the coffin with her, on
the top of which was also interred some wreaths of willow and flowers carefully framed, and
which are described in her volumes. Her relatives, not knowing her mind on these matters,
thought they were better placed thus away, than to become desecrated by passing from hand
to hand or into wilful neglect. It was to be regretted that Mrs. Tebb was absent in Algiers,
who knew the deceased so well, and who might have gained some of her intentions towards
the last.
The relatives not knowing her spiritualistic friends, and the most intimate being abroad, but
little notice could be given to the Movement of the decease and funeral. It was announced at
Neumeyer Hall, on the previous Sunday, and Mr. Burns, on the part of the Movement, was
invited to the funeral, which took place at Highgate Cemetery, on Monday, March 31, 1884.”
—~§~—
152
Notes by the Way
WILLIAM CROOKES AND
MADAME BLAVATSKY
William Crookes, readers of this journal will acknowledge, was an eminent pioneer of both
physics and psychical research. He also joined the Theosophical Society in 1883 and is
believed to have remained a member until his death.
In 2008, William Brock published a weighty biography William
Crookes and the Commercialization of Science. This was
reviewed at length in JSPR by Andreas Sommer in January
2010. I wrote a note for Theosophical History Jan/April 2008
(double issue) “A Theosophical Scientist” correcting some
inaccuracies in Brock, making a misprint of my own (saying the
former British T.S. passed under the control of Crookes, when I
meant of Sinnett), and asserting in the first paragraph “True, we
do not know of any meeting between H.P.B. and Crookes, even
when they both lived in London…”
In reality, we (the theosophical history community, excepting
me) were well aware of at least one private meeting, and another
private meeting was also on record, as noted below.
Embarrassingly, I had overlooked basic sources.
Josephine Ransom’s A Short History of the Theosophical Society appeared in 1938, and is
still in print. The author used the archives at the Theosophical headquarters in Adyar, India,
and despite her strong admiration for its leaders, including Mr Leadbeater, gives a valuable
framework. Speaking of HPB’s visit to London in 1884, she writes “One day she went to
Professor William Crookes’ laboratory to see his experiments.” (p.198).11
The Ransom
reference was also given by Boris De Zirkoff, in the appropriate HPB Collected Writings
volume for 1884. Jean Overton Fuller mentioned the visit in her biography Blavatsky and Her
Teachers, and doubtless there are other authors who allude to it.
Another visit was recalled by Bertram Keightley in his paper “Reminiscences of HPB” which
appeared in The Theosophist September 1931. This time Crookes came to her, after her return
to London in 1887. Keightley writes:
“She never at any time “did” phenomena, except once, when I recall her producing the
“astral bell” sound for Mr Crookes, the eminent scientist, and even passed the “current”
through his hand and made a finger-bowl ring and the water in it to “shiver”.”(P.715-6)
Brock notes that Crookes and his wife were present on 21 July 1884 at the farewell reception
in Piccadilly, London for Olcott and Blavatsky who were leaving England. This event for 500
guests marked the high water mark for fashionable Theosophy, and for Sinnett.
11
Crookes was not a professor nor any kind of academic, but a jobbing scientist of genius, who had to work for
a living, without security of tenure.
153
After Crookes died, many of his papers were destroyed, and they may well have included
references to other visits. Crookes does not seem to have been affected by the SPR Hodgson
report which had pronounced adversely on Theosophical phenomena.
When a Theosophist passes, the obits will often identify their lodge. George Arundale,
paying tribute to Crookes ‘On the Watch-Tower’ in The Theosophist June 1919, noted that he
was a member of London Lodge, which was the former B.T.S. This however was no ordinary
lodge, being chiefly a vehicle for A.P. Sinnett. It was for a time affiliated direct to
Theosophical headquarters at Adyar, India, and there was even a spell when Sinnett and
friends broke away and formed the Eleusinian Society. Did Crookes follow him, one
wonders. I must confess I had not fully appreciated how much Crookes’ membership was
bound up with Sinnett, from the time when Sinnett brought him into the T.S. Sinnett sat with
various mediums, an interest he shared with Crookes. Crookes was a very great scientist, and
Mr Sinnett did well to retain his friendship. Their cooperation deserves further exploration.
Professor Brock’s biography of Crookes is a good place to start.
Was Crookes a Spiritualist? He was certainly convinced of survival in his later years, after
Lady Crookes died, but seems never to have made Spiritualism his religion. He was an
Anglican churchwarden but his outlook was also influenced by Eliphas Levi and occultism.
Here is an extract from the indispensable Medhurst and Goldney paper in PSPR vol. 54
(1964) about Crookes and the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism. Unless stated, the
footnotes are theirs. They write (p.130-1):
Crookes’s belief in the existence of ‘invisible intelligent beings, who profess to be
spirits of deceased people’ but fail to prove their identity, is consistent with his interest in
Theosophy. He joined the Theosophical Society in 1883 and remained a member until
his death. It will be worth quoting, in this connection, a very interesting passage in a
letter12
from C. C. Massey (an S.P.R. Council member at the Society's inception) to
Colonel Olcott, dated December 17, 1875. Massey writes:
“I sat next to Crookes at dinner the other night and had a very interesting conversation
with him. Indeed neither of us spoke a word to any one else all the time. He is an
Occultist, and a pupil of Eliphas Levi, whom he met in Paris. He has himself produced
results, but told me that like all profound Occultists there were secrets which he was not
permitted to reveal. Is he an initiate in Madame’s lodge? Probably not, for he does not
appear to believe in human spirits and says that Magic is almost altogether bad and
dangerous. He asked me much about you and Mme. Β. and Felt, to whose work he
wishes to subscribe. He is going to write to you, being more interested in finding the
similarity of results at which you have both arrived. He excused himself as well as he
could for not having written to you earlier and personally acknowledged your book.13
I
did not conceal from him that you were offended, nor that in my opinion you were
rightly so. He told me a good deal about the scandals, but only as regards Miss Showers
and himself.
12
Preserved in the Theosophical Archives at Adyar, Madras.
13
Presumably People from the Other World, American Publishing Company, Hartford, Conn, 1875.
154
“The compromising letters I understood him to assert or suggest were forgeries by a
fiend who had escaped temporarily from his control.14
He says that Katie King at her last
appearance offered to submit to his embraces15
but begged him to take no advantage of
her which a gentleman should not do — a somewhat ambiguous or inconsistent request
which he appears to have construed and complied with, with self-restraint in the interests
of morality.”
Massey’s description of Crookes as a ‘pupil of Eliphas Levi’ is of considerable
interest; if it has any basis of truth it would go far to explain Crookes's apparent
readiness to accept non-human forces and entities in the séance room. Levi’s own
attitude is made clear in his La Clef des Grandes Mystères, Baillière, Paris, 1861.16
He
discusses D. D. Home’s phenomena at some length, and while believing them to be
paranormal, he takes a familiar Occultist’ attitude when he insists that they do not
originate from deceased human beings.
In his obituary for LIGHT April 12 1919 it is significant that Crookes was not said to be a
member of the London Spiritualist Alliance, though Miss Scatcherd who helped him in his
final investigations was very active in the LSA. But it happened that the funeral of Sir
William took place on the day of a scheduled social gathering at the LSA, and the LSA leader
Henry Withall (he always disclaimed the title of president) took the opportunity there to pay
tribute to him (LIGHT April 26 1919 p.130) whom he had first met 50 years ago when
Crookes was investigating Miss Cook. He had met Crookes again 10-15 years ago:
“by becoming a member of a little society with which he was connected. He then had
a personal opportunity of discovering what a lovable man Sir William was, so simple-
minded, so ready to do kind actions and help inquirers. One day they were talking about
how far he had been helped in his researches and Sir William said. “There have been
occasions when just before awaking in the morning I have seen before my eyes some
perfected instrument, and I have known no rest till I have made an instrument like it. I
have experienced this help in many of my researches.”
The society in question may be The Ghost Club. Dr Molly Youngkin, who has been studying
Ghost Club records at CPS and the British Library told me:
I have notes about Crookes’s presence at the Ghost Club from 1899 to 1917 and
Withall’s presence at meetings from 1916 to 1919. Here are my notes about a meeting on
Oct. 3, 1917, which is recorded in the Club’s minutes in Add MS 52264 at the British
Library and which you might find especially helpful.
14
Massey is surely in error here! The ‘compromising letters’ are evidently those which, in his letter to Home,
Crookes asserted to be forged by Mrs Showers. Possibly Massey is confusing two stories, that of the forged
letters and that of the ‘fiend’ whom Crookes believed to have manifested through Florence Cook (see p. 68).
15
This, no doubt, refers to the celebrated episode described by Crookes in his Researches, 1st edn, p. 106. He
says: ‘Feeling, however, that if I had not a spirit, I had at all events a lady close to me, I asked her permission to
clasp her in my arms, so as to be able to verify the interesting observations which a bold experimentalist has
recently somewhat verbosely recorded. Permission was graciously given, and I accordingly did — well, as any
gentleman would do under the circumstances.’ This was not, as Massey says, at her last appearance, but two
months earlier.
16
Translated by Aleister Crowley as The Key of the Mysteries, Rider, London, 1959
155
P. 264 Oct. 3, 1917 meeting. Yeats not at this meeting. But, Withall (the current secretary)
talks about SM’s presence at last meeting:
“he had been in communication he believed with W Stainton Moses who told him that
at our last meeting he and the Ghosts who had passed on were able to get in closer touch
with us than was usually the case as the spiritual and psychic atmosphere of our
president’s [Crookes’s] home was less difficult to penetrate than that of a public
restaurant. He and the passed on members of the Club attended our meetings and it was
pleasant to them to feel that we remembered them when their names on the roll were
called.”
On a related matter, Brock claims that Crookes joined Golden Dawn. I consulted Dr Robert
Gilbert, who kindly explained.
	  
“Yes. Crookes was briefly a member of Isis-Urania Temple. He joined in June 1890 but
never went beyond the 0=0 Grade of Neophyte. He is No. 81 on the Order Roll, with the
motto ‘Ubi crux, ibi lux’. The address book gives his address as '7 Kensington Park Gardens,
London W.' and records him simply as 'demitted', but gives no date. I imagine that he simply
found that the GD had no appeal for him.”
LP.
—~§~—
156
The Russell Connection
Reuniting Parents with their Children in the Spirit World through Physical
& Trance Mediumship – review by Steve Hume
This is the second book by Gwen Byrne.17
Her first,
Russell, told the story of how she and her late
husband, Alf, became convinced of the post-mortem
survival of their nine-year old son following his tragic
death in 1963. This volume may be regarded as a
continuation of that story, but it also contains lengthy
accounts from other bereaved parents who became
similarly convinced of the survival of their own
offspring by virtue of a mixture of ostensible
spontaneous psi events and various modes of
mediumship.
I have to confess here that, not being familiar with the
author’s previous book, I find myself at a
disadvantage because it (doubtless) contains most of
the details of the survival evidence by which the
Byrnes reached the conclusion that Russell had,
indeed, survived death. As related in the present
volume, though, this appears to have happened after a
series of odd coincidences and evidential information
gleaned via mental mediumship, over a lengthy
period, eventually led the couple to sit with the
physical medium Rita Goold for a number of years
during the 1980’s. Byrne appears to credit Goold with having supplied the final proof of
Russell’s survival, starting with her first séance in 1982.
Readers may, or may not, be aware that Goold’s mediumship has attracted a great deal of
criticism from researchers and Spiritualists alike. Byrne refers to this in the book when she
tells of how, following a demonstration by the medium at Stansted Hall, and ensuing negative
comments, she (Byrne) decided to stop referring to herself as a Spiritualist. She also alleges
that the late Maurice Grosse (a sympathetic researcher, if ever there was one), at a séance at
which Byrne was not present, shouted to Russell ‘cut out the big act! Why are you talking in
such a silly voice?’
It would be beyond the scope of this brief review to delve into Goold’s mediumship in any
depth. But a few respected commentators, including a noted physical medium, have provided
(not entirely negative) critiques of séances with a medium that match in every respect
(location, names of alleged communicators etc.) the particulars of Goold’s mediumship,
albeit without actually naming her (e.g. Wilson,18
1987; Cornell19
2002; Alexander,20
2010).
17
Published by Psychic Book Club Publishing ISBN: 978-0-9575007-2-3 £11.99. Available from Amazon:
http://www.amazon.co.uk/The-Russell-Connection-Reuniting-Mediumship/dp/0957500726
18
Afterlife, by Colin Wilson: London, Grafton Books (1987). Pp. 267-273.
19
Investigating the Paranormal, by Tony Cornell: New York, Helix Press (2002). Pp. 347-352.
157
That said, taking the author’s account of how she became connected with Goold at face value
(that Russell dictated the Byrne’s phone number at a séance, when no one present knew the
couple, and asked that she be contacted), then I think that she could be forgiven for giving
Goold more than a little leeway. But I still found it a shame that Byrne’s defence of Goold in
this book, in my opinion, lacks substance. Although, it should be noted that, according to her
account, Russell’s survival does not rest solely on evidence provided by Goold, I still found
myself struggling to disentangle Byrne’s entirely positive endorsement from the observations
of others. Not for the first time in my career as a commentator on these matters I found the
perplexing subjects of mixed mediumship, and other irksome factors nagging at me
throughout.
Nevertheless, the aspect of this book that I found most interesting (and readable) were the
accounts given by the other bereaved parents. These are interspersed throughout the general
narrative, which tends to meander around further descriptions of Russell’s communications to
the author by various means – both by spontaneous phenomena (e.g. the well known
phenomenon of spontaneously sensing the presence of the deceased) and also via the
mediumship (largely trance) of mediums other than Goold.
Byrne relates how, following the publication of Russell, she was contacted by other grieving
parents, mostly mothers, and was encouraged by Russell to form a support group called
‘Russell’s Pink Panther Society’ (RPPS), after a Pink Panther toy was apported into a Goold
séance.
The accounts given by members of the RPPS are valuable in that they provide an insight into
how ordinary people, i.e. not from the research community, approach the subject of
mediumship and judge survival evidence from the unenviable position of having lost a child
– surely one of the worst fates that can befall any human being. These accounts speak of
people who, with the guidance of Byrne, do not appear to have allowed grief to completely
cloud their critical acumen, and who have obviously gained a great deal of strength and hope
from the exercise.
In sum, this book should be read by anyone seeking an insight into how mediumship, and
survival evidence of varying quality, can provide what is obviously genuine emotional
support to the bereaved. Inevitably, questions will be raised by some as to the means by
which individuals in such a position may be apt to misinterpret ‘evidence’. But I feel that it
would be inappropriate and unfair to judge the results of mediumship in its most natural
social context, as demonstrated here, against the highest standards of academic
parapsychology which, let’s face it, have often produced challenging veridicality mixed with
obvious error themselves.
—~§~—
20
An Extraordinary Journey, by Stewart Alexander: Beaconsfield, Saturday Night Press Publications (2010).
Pp. 208-211.
158
A VOICE FROM BEYOND
SÉANCE CONVERSATION IN ICELANDIC
By SIGURDUR ARNALDS
Note by LP: One of our readers, Erlendur Haraldsson, was in London recently and I drew
his attention to this incident from LIGHT. He told me. “A translation of this Light article
from 1933 was published in MORGUNN”, [the Icelandic Spiritualist publication] It appeared
also that Sigurdur Arnalds had reported on this incident at one of the meetings of the
Icelandic SPR.”
The medium Hazel Ridley had a mixed reputation. Dennis Bradley, for example, wrote a
negative chapter about her in his book And After (1931). We include the incident in
Psypioneer because of the rarity of Icelandic messages.
—~§~—
Below is taken from LIGHT, March 17th 1933, page 166:
I COME from the smallest and most isolated nation in Europe, a nation which has its
own independent language—a language which is not taught in this country or in any
other. I have never during my four years’ stay abroad come across any foreigner who
could say a single sentence in my native tongue. I come from Iceland.
In Glasgow, I became acquainted with a Scotsman, Mr. Alexander Cumming, who
invited me to a séance with the American Medium, Miss Hazel Ridley. We arrived rather
late for the sitting—the Medium was going into a trance—consequently I was not
introduced to Miss Ridley or to any of the sixteen people present. The spirits came
through and addressed the sitters one after the other till I was the only one left.
Then there was a pause which I thought indicated the end and I felt disappointed.
Suddenly, I was addressed by my ﬁrst name, Sigurdur, and then again my pet name,
Siggi. The following conversation took place between the voice and myself in Icelandic:
Voice: Do you hear me, Siggi?
Myself: Yes, can you tell me your name?
Voice: I am Gisl-o-o.
Myself: Is your name Gislina? (An Icelandic woman’s name).
Voice: I am a man very recently passed over.
Myself: Perhaps it is easier for you to tell me in English who you are.
Voice: I do not speak English.
Myself: Are you a relative of mine?
Voice: No; Helga, Helga! (An Icelandic woman’s name).
Myself: Is your name Helga?
159
Voice: No, I am a man.
Voice: Polly, Polly!
At last it struck me who it might be, but until he mentioned the name “Polly,” this
person had not come into my mind at all during the sitting and I said: “And now you can
tell me your name.” The ice was broken and the right name came: “Gishi Olafson.” “At
last I could say it, Siggi,” he added.
This Mr. Olafson had died two months before; he was a friend of my family, had a
daughter whose name was Helga and his widow’s pet name was “Polly.”
I asked him if there was anything I could do for him, to which he replied: “Tell Helga
that she must not be so sad.” I promised to write that very evening and he thanked me.
Then he asked me to use every opportunity to attend sittings as there was so much he
wanted to tell me and ask me to do for him. Then he thanked me again and said “vertu
bless,” which is an Icelandic slang expression for “good -bye,” and the conversation was
over.
The first words were said with difﬁculty and with a strong foreign accent; but, after he
had succeeded in bringing through his name, the conversation proceeded more easily and
the last sentences were pronounced nearly as if they had been spoken through Icelandic
lips.
Was it the individual, Miss Ridley, who happened to be the first foreigner to talk to
me in Icelandic? Or, was it the spirit of Mr. Olafson? Personally, I am convinced that it
was the latter—that two Icelanders in two different worlds had spoken together in their
own language through a foreign Medium.
—~§~—
160
STAINTON MOSES RETURNS,
PAINFULLY
Note by LP: Katharine Bates was a Christian Spiritualist who claimed the friendship of F.
W. H. Myers, Archdeacon Basil Wilberforce and Stainton Moses. In her books she has some
interesting material, though normally without corroboration. By the time of the 1920 book
from which the extracts below are taken, she had some unusual ideas about a new kind of
children, to which we will return in a later edition of Psypioneer.21
Pages 105/6:
I belonged once to an occult society, and went through several degrees in it, wasting a
good deal of time over purely mechanical knowledge which burdened the memory
without illuminating the understanding. When I complained that I could see no
advantage likely to arise from passing Class II. to Class III. as the result of spending
hours in mere feats of memory, I was told that this was only discipline. “My next move
would certainly give me some key to the situation.” So I spent more time and went, by
degrees, to Classes IV., V. and VI., but that key was never forthcoming, though it was
hinted that if I persevered I might at last rise high enough to gain some power over
elementals! Now as my only desire is to give elementals a very wide berth, I thought it
was time to resign, and asked to be “read out” of that “galère.” There were some pleasant
and kindly people in it, and if their desire was “elemental” I hope they have succeeded
by this time and are none the worse for the experience.
Robert Gilbert kindly explained this to me. “Yes, she was in the Golden Dawn, a member of
the Isis Urania Temple. She joined in May 1891 but left in 1894. What she means by ‘class 6’
I don't know; she reached the Grade of Philosophus (4=7) which is the fifth in the sequence.
It looks as though she balked at the prospect of taking the Portal Grade and proceeding to the
Second Order.”22
	  Pages 122/26:
Some years ago and within a year of the transition of Mr. Stainton Moses (whose
name will be recognised by all psychical researchers), I was dining in the house of some
very old friends of his. Two young American wives and their husbands were also dining
there, and when the ladies had left the men to their wine, one of these ladies was most
eager that we should try to hold some communication through a table. I did my best to
veto this, feeling afraid that Mr. Moses might take advantage of the opportunity—which
I knew would be painful to my friend and hostess. However, the American lady gained
the point, and when I whispered to the hostess “would you not rather give this up?” she
said quietly, “No, it had better go on now. It is the discussion I dislike most.”
As I feared, Mr. Stainton Moses came almost at once, and said I was the medium of
this occasion.
21
Children of the Dawn by E. Katharine Bates published by Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co., Ltd, 1920.
22
Readers will note in this same issue, that Crookes was also a member briefly of the GD.
161
He gave a very appropriate message about the improved opportunities he had from his
present Home for helping on the movement to which he had devoted his life and he was
giving up the control when I began to feel the most excruciating pains all over my body.
I never thought of associating these with Mr. Stainton Moses. I knew he had not been
very strong for a year or two before his death, but had no idea that his illness was
associated with such severe physical pain. The other three ladies were so absorbed by a
new control that no one took any notice of my condition, so I joined the hands of my
neighbours on either side and escaped to a Chesterﬁeld couch where I lay groaning and
in very severe pain for about half-an-hour when, by degrees, the pains lessened and I
became normal. My hostess said afterwards, “How brutal they had been to take no notice
of my sufferings,” and I gathered that they had not altogether realized these at the time.
We asked for no explanation of it because no one connected it in any way with psychic
conditions.
Moreover, some rather amusing, but very pertinent advice, had been given to one of
the young married women, whose husband was in the dining room, on the subject of
taking a new house, which she desired and certainly had every right to possess, as the
money was on her side. An old great-uncle—evidently a shrewd business man was being
consulted as to whether she should “try to persuade” Louis (a pseudonym) to purchase
the house. Hitherto they had inspected many houses, but all those in desirable quarters
were condemned at once by Louis as insanitary! The inspectors seemed to have been
most unanimous in their verdicts on this head; judging by the husband’s account. “Great-
Uncle Richard” gave his advice with no uncertain sound!
“Don’t try to persuade tyrants—rather use your own judgment and see the inspectors
yourself.” I think he hinted that the latter would be greatly surprised on hearing how
many proposed houses they had declared unhealthy.
It was two years later before I found for the first time a solution of my “Problem of
Pain.” When my hostess had asked me where I felt the pain I had answered at once “all
over. There is not a bone in my body that is not racked by pain.”
Two years later, I met at a quiet dinner in Sussex Gardens the lady who was Mr.
Stainton Moses’ masseuse during the last two years of his life. She was telling a doctor
who sat next to her, and opposite to me, about Mr. Moses’ illness. We were a small party
and I heard all she said. Curiously enough, she used the exact words I had used in trying
to describe my sensations two years earlier. She said: “Well Doctor, I was with him
constantly for two years, and I have no hesitation in saying that during my acquaintance
with him and speaking from the point of view of an expert masseuse, there was not a
bone in his body that was not racked with pain.”
Those who have not studied psychical phenomena deeply will doubtless say: “How
horrible to think he should still be suffering in that way.” Of course, we know that this is
not the case. It was not a very harmonious circle—two of us were intensely eager “to see
the table do something.” The Other two—my hostess and myself—were rather resenting
this view of things, i.e., the sort of parlour game atmosphere, induced always by
investigators more eager for amusement than instruction. No doubt these were factors in
the earthly atmosphere which Mr. Moses, as a Sensitive, would feel keenly in taking on a
rather uncongenial milieu. His great wish to console his friend on earth would,
nevertheless, induce him to take control with this object in view. I am sure he never
162
supposed that he would unconsciously transmit his earthly sufferings to the most
sensitive person in the room and a former friend of his own.
There is no reason to suppose that he was actually suffering those pains at the time. In
fact, we have good reason to think the contrary. As an inhabitant of the Ethereal sphere
he would be in a different rate of vibrations; but I, still on earth and conditioned by earth
vibrations and very sensitive to them, happened to be the victim on this occasion.
—~§~—
William Stainton Moses
November 5th 1839 – September 5th 1892
163
Association of Art Historians 41st
Annual
Conference Session 19:
Modernism, Occultism and Evolution.
Note by LP: We are very grateful for art historian Lynda Harris for providing a report
on this conference session. There is no area of psychic studies today which is attracting
such interest as art:
—~§~—
This conference, held in Norwich 9-11 April 2015, was probably the first in 41 years to
include a session on esoteric art of the late 19th and early 20th century. Presumably it won’t
be the last, as art historians are now increasingly appreciating the numbers of artists who
were involved during this time with occultism and esotericism. New scientific discoveries of
the period, including x-rays, radioactivity and radio waves, appeared to support the existence
of invisible worlds and energies. The relevance of these scientific concepts to the modernist
movement in art was discussed by LINDA DALRYMPLE HENDERSON (University of
Texas). As she pointed out, occultism in fin-de-siècle art can no longer be dismissed by art
historians as a ‘fringe’ topic.
In addition to the new physics, Theosophists such as Blavatsky, Besant and Leadbeater were
influenced by Darwinian and Lamarckian concepts of evolution. Syncretic religions from the
Far East and elsewhere were also important in Theosophy. The synthesis of these various
ideas in fin-de-siècle Paris was discussed by FAE BRAUER (Universities of East London
and New South Wales). Two of the painters involved in this Parisian world, and influenced
by Theosophy along with other occultist ideas, were František Kupka and Hélène Dufau.
Both were especially interested in the trajectory of human evolution, which they believed
could lead to almost magical changes in the physical and psychological characteristics of
future humanity.
In Sweden, the individualistic Spiritualist painter Hilma Af Klint took her own approach to
what TESSEL M. BAUDUIN (Radboud University, Netherlands) described as ‘these various
occulted scientific concepts’. Believing, for example, that the true essence of atoms is on the
astral plane she painted the atomic structure of flowers in both their astral and physical forms.
Klint was also deeply impressed by C.W. Leadbeater’s Man Visible and Invisible, which
discussed and illustrated Theosophical concepts of spiritual evolution and the ascending
planes of nature. She diverged from Leadbeater, however, in that she thought that
consciousness could travel up, down, and in and out of the planes. Her spiritual works
expressed these ideas through a series of abstract shapes, including triangles which pointed
up and down. Colours were also significant in expressing the darkness and light through
which we pass, with yellow also representing the masculine and blue the feminine.
SERENA KESHAVJEE (University of Winnipeg) discussed the attempts of experimenters to
understand and capture what the science populariser Flammarion called the ‘Mysterious
Psychic Forces’. These included thought forms, magnetic energy, and the ‘unknown forces’
used by mediums to levitate tables and move objects. Experimenters, including Karl van
Reichenbach, Hippolyte Baraduc, Albert de Rochas and Yakov Narkevich-Iodko developed
processes which would make the ‘odic’ or ‘vital’ forces’ visible. While spirit extras and
ectoplasm were usually photographed with traditional cameras, experimental camera-free
systems were used to capture phenomena such as thought forms and the aura. The new
164
systems included images made by objects placed directly on photosensitive paper,
‘Rayograms’, which were projected onto gelatinous plates, and electro-graphic images
projected directly onto the photographic plate by means of an electrical discharge. The early
results tended to be misty, but the later images were much clearer, with some (in my view)
resembling present day Kirlean photographs. Concepts of the vital force appealed to fin-de-
siècle Symbolist painters and writers as well as scientists, and influenced their works. The
moving and entwining strands of hair in Munch’s paintings, for example, are likely to be
affected by these ideas.
Munch’s friend August Strindberg, best known today as a playwright, was also active as a
painter and photographer. MARJA LAHELMA (Universities of Helsinki and Edinburgh)
discussed the influences of Swedenborg, alchemy and occultism on his ideas. Sharing the
current interest in invisible energies, he photographed the aura, and even tried to prove the
existence of the soul by taking pictures of it. He used further experimental techniques in his
‘celestographs’, or long-exposure photographs of the night sky. The mystical themes of
Strindberg’s photographs were paralleled in his paintings, which explored the poetry, depth
and changeability of the natural world.
Other talks in the session included a look by PASCAL ROUSSEAU (Université de Paris) at
ways in which concepts of non-sensory, mind-to-mind communication influenced the
development of abstract painting. TANJA POPPELREUTER (Ulster University) discussed
the modernist belief that old traditions can be altered, and changes in housing can lead to
changes in the ways people behave. These ideas were applied by Mies van der Rohe to plans
for affordable housing. NEIL MATHESON (University of Westminster) then looked at
occultism in the Surrealist movement before and after World War II. André Breton, who was
the most attracted to these subjects, took a particular interest in Tarot cards and magic. Max
Ernst, Kurt Seligman and Maurice Baskin all produced works on Alchemical themes, and the
darker subject of diabolism also appealed to several members of the movement. Finally, in
the last talk, MARK BARTLETT (independent scholar) discussed Paul DeMarinis, a
contemporary American electronic composer. Some of his sculptures and installations are
influenced by occult concepts of the late 19th
-early 20th
century, including certain
Theosophical ideas. His approach to these subjects is generally ironic and humourous.
Though some artists have continued to be influenced by occult ideas up to the present day,
the heyday of the modernist movement came to an end during the 1920s. Why was this?
Some would suggest the shock of the World War I, but this is probably only a partial
explanation. Another important cause, suggested by DALRYMPLE HENDERSON, was
Einstein’s Theory of Relativity. During the modernist period, occultists believed in the
existence of an all-permeating substance known as the ether of space, which acted as a
medium for the transmission of thought, light and other vibrations. The discrediting of this
apparently essential component of occultist science by the new Theory of Relativity had a
disillusioning influence on occultist thinkers and artists. Nevertheless, it is clear (as I see it)
that Flammarion’s ‘Mysterious Psychic Forces’ have not vanished along with the ether. They
are still unexplained, but this does not mean they do not exist.
—~§~—
165
Note by LP: The Manchester businessman William Oxley was a significant investigator of
physical mediumship, not least in relation to wax moulds made by spirits.23
He was interested
in becoming a disciple of the Theosophical Mahatmas, but was turned down as described in
“The Mahatma Letters.”24
He founded however another group, the Angelic Order of Life, based on teachings received
by a medium, whose last known member left the records to the Theosophical Society in
London about 1990. On July 2 2012, Marc Demarest posted on his blog “Chasing down
Emma” some valuable research into Oxley’s family, which links to Oxley’s own account of
his life.25
The first article below was written when Oxley was still alive,26
and the second is an
obituary.
Mr. Oxley
The following sketch has been written
for us by a friend who has intimately
known Mr. Oxley for a great number
of years. Mr. Oxley is not in any way
responsible for what we have
published.
IN BRINGING our thoughts in
touch with the personality whose
portrait ornaments the front page of
this magazine is a pleasant and
proﬁtable experience for the mind,
and our memory is refreshed by many
incidents in which his face and voice
helped to cheer and carry us through
the mists which enveloped the mind in
the early days of our investigation into
the mysteries of the spiritual
philosophy; so that, in writing this
sketch, it is something of the nature of
a letter to a friend, and must embody
the heartfelt utterances of the soul,
along with the characteristic features
of the noble and fearless life of this
spiritual scientist.
23
See Michael Coleman, M. H. (1994) Wax moulds of ‘spirit’ limbs. JSPR 59, 340 - 346, and Psypioneer
editor’s remarks below.
24
William Oxley: http://www.theosophy.wiki/mywiki/index.php?title=William_Oxley
25
Chasing Down Emma – William Oxley: http://ehbritten.blogspot.co.uk/2012/07/william-oxley-1823-1905.html
26
The Two Worlds December 16th 1898, front page & page 830.
166
Mr. William Oxley was born at Doncaster in Yorkshire on May 1, 1823, and his father’s
ancestral line extends back for several generations, some of them ﬁlling important positions,
manifesting strong mentality and useful business habits.
In these modern times it requires the sharpest wit, along with good calculating powers, to
stand the same ground which in the good old days was easily and comfortably occupied. The
ﬁrm with which his name is associated, and is so well known in the city of Manchester, has
executed in its time large contracts, in the production of small machinery for the manufacture
of ﬂax, cotton, and other textile industries; also ﬁtting up gasworks, and tackling the
execution of large Government orders, so that one paying a visit to the works at the
Parsonage, Manchester, was at once struck with the complicated nature of what was going
on, as it appeared to be a perfect hive of industry, and every corner animated with workmen
carrying out the several details of the manufacturing process.
Mr. Oxley has virtually retired from business, which has been consigned to his son, who
for many years was the representative of the ﬁrm in India, and who has now removed the
works to larger and more commodious premises, called the Tudor Works, Pendleton, where
there still goes on the throbbing industrious centre, which for so many years was inspired by
the mind of our friend, whose dearly loved personality is now deeply enshrined in our own
spiritual consciousness.
His visits on business matters led him regularly to visit Scotland, and while making one of
these journeys as far back as 1877, a mill proprietor in the district where we resided told him
that some people of his persuasion (as he always dropped a seed of truth when he considered
it suitable) had been carrying on meetings to hold communion with spirits, and on this
information he sought out the little group and brought with him the experience he had
gathered himself, and gave out freely what he then possessed of the knowledge of the truth.
Mr. Oxley has been prominently successful as an investigator of spiritualistic phenomena
from the fact of his entering the ﬁeld with scholarly attainments, as he had a fairly good
education, and being deeply religious, as well as scientiﬁc in his natural organisation, there
was all the physical and natural conditions for a patient and candid survey of the facts then
presented for his mental acceptance. It might be only a coincidence that he was led, previous
to his touching the vital ground of Spiritualism, to join the obscure sect of Swedenborgians,
as he was brought up in the teachings of the Wesleyan Methodist Church, and no doubt this
fact gave depth and colour to the whole aspect of his future work in regard to spiritual
manifestations.
For 25 years a close alliance in thought, sympathy and action with the spiritual movement
has existed, and during that period he has been a stalwart champion of the facts, and also a
zealous exponent of the principles as far as his own mind leads him to perceive, and a really
earnest sympathy led him actively to provide the beneﬁts of mediumship at much expense to
himself for those living in different towns where he was visiting, and we have known him
bring physical mediums from remote parts of England to Dundee in Scotland, and then bring
together a company of representative men of the city to witness the phenomena, and so there,
and many other places, laid down a knowledge of Spiritualism which has gone on generating
a liberal inﬂuence on he minds of the people. And although time claims its right of
ascendancy over every structure, including the earthly temple of the soul, it is truly wonderful
how this veteran in the ranks of the reforming army holds possession of his mental sharpness
and acumen in knowledge, as we can judge from those articles recently published in this
167
magazine on mediumship and materialization of the spirit form. It is evident his hand has not
lost its cunning, although his physical energies have somewhat abated.
We have always recognised a deep underlying principle of being in the constitutional
elements of this one’s life and movements since we came in contact with him. Outwardly in
action he is kind, generous, and obliging, reﬁned in manner, and commanding respect, so that
no one, in meeting with him, is not the better for it, but it is that power which has brought
him to the front and given him originality, and a representative character in all that he does. It
is this power in the constitution of his mentality that has led him into ﬁelds of thought and
inquiry quite fresh and original, as, for instance, the publishing of that volume, ‘The
Philosophy of Spirit,’ where he renders the old sacred poem of India, the ‘Bhagavat Gita’ into
the English language in a new dress, which really makes the language speak the spiritual
aspirations of the student of spiritual philosophy in our own day, and a zest was given to the
study of Aryan literature, which has grown into a strong thirst and inclination, and born fruit,
say, as manifested in the growth and development of the Theosophical Society.’
Again his attention was drawn to the study of Egyptian antiquities and literary stores of
knowledge to sustain the inﬂux of light which from time to time entered the region of
thought. He was led at this period, along with a literary friend, to take a journey to the land of
the Nile, and during that sojourn in Egypt he was deeply imbued with the knowledge attached
to these ancient memorials of past greatness, and the sculptured faces of the tombs revealed
to him a vast library of knowledge about to be opened up for the good of mankind, and would
give practical demonstration of the falsity of those literary and religious gods which the
civilised-nations are actually worshipping at the present day. A volume published in 1885 by
Mr. Oxley, entitled ‘Egypt, and the Wonders of the Land of the Pharaohs,’ and those who are
in possession of this volume have a key to many puzzling and knotty questions which have
vexed both Church and State. For publishing this book, and in recognition of its worth, a
literary and scientiﬁc society of London presented him with the gold medal of the Society.
Since that time the light of Egypt has streamed in upon his soul; and I feel sure no one living
has a more perfect understanding of the esoteric nature of the religion and social life of the
ancient Egyptians, and how interwoven their peculiar type of thought is with the religious
expression and experience of this country.
Besides the publication of other works on the fundamental principles of spiritual thought,
he was the Editor of the matter given at a private circle in Manchester, and these alone
comprise ﬁve large octavo volumes. There is so much in these books, entitled, ‘Angelic
Revelations,’ to awaken the conscious life of the readers, suggesting serious and thoughtful
enquiry into boundless regions of investigations, which can only be grasped by the studious
and contemplative. In fact, these volumes are a biblical encyclopedia, manifesting the
involution and evolution of the spiritual being of man. The language is chaste and beautiful,
and the imagery and symbolism conveying these profound truths are really sublime. These
books are not given in the style of a popular treatise to command a large circulation, but as
the gift of a devout and earnest spiritual circle, who came in contact with great thinkers and
revelators on the spiritual plane of existence, who by methods original and unique, conveyed
the great fact of human existence on the physical, psychical, and spiritual planes by the
inspirational breathings of disembodied beings on these several planes of beings. The idea of
the representative character of manifesting spirits is clearly deﬁned in the pages of these
books.
168
The true value and ﬁtness of these volumes in the domain of spiritual thoughts will be
better understood in the incoming age of growth and spiritual development, and the patient
work of the circle and sacriﬁcing efforts to put the communications into book-form will yet
come to be duly appreciated as well as the position of the Editor, who must have spent many
weary hours to bring into light and existence this mass of literature, altogether new and
original in the English language. It was no feeling of curiosity, but allegiance to truth and
devotion to the highest wellbeing of his fellow-men, which prompted these actions and
conquered the insuperable difficulties which stood in their way.
I remember the late editor of a Spiritualist paper saying to me after he had got one of the
volumes to print, that although he did not fully understand the nature of the communications,
he inwardly knew that they were all true, and this sense is a general estimate of the position
of the reader, because, truly, the facts are the embodied utterances of truth on the spiritual
plane, and have a power and force to lift the mind into contemplative regions of spiritual life
and light.
The circle which met for seven years to receive the Angelic Revelations (now out of print)
was dissolved, and after the lapse of seven years a new circle was formed to enter on a more
pronounced and objective series of communication. And as the outcome of this new
organisation there has been issued two large volumes, entitled ‘Life, and its Manifestations,’
and matter for two other volumes await the time for further publication. These books form a
sequel to the former series, and deal with the same truths in a more objective and illustrative
form, and to our mind they make manifest the clearer organisation and divine order of the
guiding intelligences on the spiritual disembodied plane, and there is a distinct intention in
making clear those points on which controversies and disputations might arise in regard to
the ultimation, growth, and destiny of the human ego, and to the plain sailing Spiritualist he
could ﬁnd no better interpretation of these knotty points than is laid down in the
communications, which are not published for general circulation.
We cannot enter into the details of this stupendous spiritual outbirth and intellectual life-
force, further than record the close affinity of Mr. Oxley’s mind with all that has been
evolved; and we can in no better language condense the meaning from all that remarkable
literature than in his own words: ‘What the Christian sects regard as God—viz., a perfect
human being in one personal form,—must henceforth be regarded as the central life in every
human being, and consequently that universal personality, or the totality of all persons, is the
most external manifestation of God, and the same is true of all spheres of being. This, and
vastly more, is summed up in our philosophy, thus: There is only one life and one substance
by which the one life is manifested in an inﬁnitude of forms, inhabiting an inﬁnitude of
worlds, spheres, and suns.’
From this ﬁeld of philosophical enquiry into which our friend naturally leads us, we wish
to take a glance of our friend at his home, and one feature is his abiding dwelling-place as a
quarter of a century has always found him in the same place a comfortable home, which was
a while ago in the suburbs of the city of Manchester, but is now a point where miles of
buildings stretch beyond, yet he finds conditions for the highest and fullest evidence of
spiritual intercourse, and within his own sanctum or study the true picture of this modern
apostle of spiritual thought is found; and from his writing-table to look around the apartment
you at once perceive the genius and source of inspiration which has fed those ﬁres of
enthusiastic ardour for so many years past.
169
The spiritualism of the man is not like that of many who pose as leaders, for in many
instances you cannot ﬁnd a trace of their allegiance to the truth; it is actually hidden away in
their own home, not so that of this earnest and truthful man, for there is disclosed to your
view books, pictures, object lessons from séances, moulds of the feet and hands, and
carefully preserved bits of the garments of materialised spirits, and samples of spirit writing,
making you feel in very close proximity to the denizens of the vast beyond. Then, again, you
observe the memorials of his Egyptian tour, and these spiritual symbols in bronze of Osiris,
Isis, and Horns, the Egyptian trinity, and many carved amulets or charms which have played
a part in the life drama of that ancient nation. There hangs a chart portraying his earthly
descent, and parentage as well, showing that the individuality of the man is a known factor,
and his position amid the myriad forms of life is well deﬁned to himself, and the
representative character of his teaching a well understood principle. A photograph of that
study would be an object lesson not easily forgotten, and would convey a meaning of the
man’s life and work. It is not merely a hobby all this with him, but well-connected experience
and living part of the living whole.
After what we have said, it will be seen that he is not inaccessible, and no one who desires
to meet with something good and true but will love to hear this story, and feel their own life
made better in knowing that Spiritualism has such a truthful representative, who is sound in
faith as well as the embodiment of many sterling virtues, for during these many years he has
been as true to his convictions as the needle is to the pole; and more than that, he is social,
kind, and hospitable, so that all this mysticism is based upon a stratum of good human nature.
One point we omitted, which shows his desire for his fellows around him, that in which he
sought election and got it to the Corporation of Salford, sitting for three years, and by that
means obtained an insight into the working methods of the civic system, so that Mr. Oxley is
an all round man, and holds the facts of the spiritual philosophy in a well-balanced brain, a
kind and genial heart, and altogether, a clean and unimpeachable life.
A. D.
—~§~—
170
Obituary published below is taken from The Two Worlds July 14th 1905, page 355:
WILLIAM OXLEY
WILLIAM OXLEY was born on May 1st, 1823, at Doncaster, with which town his ancestors
had been associated from the year 1561. His parents, Thomas and Jane Oxley, and his
grandparents were staunch Methodists, being among the earliest adherents of the Wesleys
(about 1780). Thomas Oxley, his father, was a lay preacher for the Wesleyan body during the
greater part of a long life, and known far and wide as an earnest, zealous, indefatigable
worker, faithful to his convictions and loyal to his church, in spite of the constant indignities
and petty persecutions to which the Wesleyans were subjected in the early days of the
movement. His son, William, who seems to have inherited an untiring energy and staunch
devotion from his worthy father, was ‘converted’ in his twentieth year, and ﬂung himself
heart and soul into the ‘work of the Lord,’ teaching, ‘leading’ classes, and discharging a great
number of official duties.
About 1864 he became acquainted with the doctrines of the Swedenborgian Church,
which made such an impression upon him that he forthwith relinquished his connection with
Wesleyanism, and attached himself to the followers of Swedenborg, the New Jerusalem
Church as they styled themselves. Eight years passed—years of diligent study of his newly-
adopted religion, and enthusiastic work amongst his new co-religionists.
In 1872 an old friend whom he had not seen for many years introduced him to the
phenomenal phase of Spiritualism, and although the manifestations he first witnessed were
crude enough, he felt satisﬁed that there was ‘something in it’ which was likely to prove
worthy of investigation. Fortiﬁed with the enlightenment derived from Swedenborg’s
teachings, whose system of philosophy, based upon the science of correspondences, he
considered to be ‘the only key to unlock all the mysteries pertaining to spirit and matter,’ he
boldly entered upon this new ﬁeld of research at a time when to be known as a Spiritualist
was to be an object of ridicule, and cheerfully devoted time, money, and energy in the pursuit
of truth.
Patiently, persistently, undaunted by a great variety of obstacles which were encountered
from time to time, Mr. Oxley made himself acquainted with nearly every form of
phenomenal Spiritualism. Mrs. Firman, Dr. Monck, Miss Cook (Mrs. Corner), Miss Fairlamb
(Mrs. Mellon), Mrs. Esperance, Mr. Hopcroft, Mr. David Duguid, and Messrs. Sadler (the
brothers by means of whose mediumship he introduced Spiritualism to Dundee) may be cited
as the best known of the mediums with whom he had sittings. Bringing to bear upon his
research keen intelligence, careful observation, unremitting patience and honesty of purpose
be acquired a personal acquaintance with Spiritualistic phenomena and deep insight into the
underlying causes of them such as were possessed by few, very few of his contemporaries. It
was the philosophy of Spiritualism that had the greatest attraction for him, and it was in the
study thereof that the most important part of his life’s work lay.
At the outset of his career of investigation Mr. Oxley became connected with a circle of
friends who met regularly with a medium named Mrs. Lighfoot, whose utterances while in
deep trances seemed of such vital import, albeit couched in symbolic phraseology, that he
took it upon himself to record them. From time to time the records were collected and
published under the title of ‘Angelic Revelations, concerning the Origin, Ultimation, and
171
Destiny of the Human Spirit,’ forming ﬁve large-volumes.27
For this work Mr. Oxley only
claimed to be the amanuensis, but it by no means marked the limit of his active pen. Even
while it was in progress, he translated the well-known ‘Bhagavat Gita,’ and published the
translation, which was accompanied by his own interpretation of the spiritual teachings of
that beautiful poem, under the title of “Philosophy of Spirit.” Later he visited Egypt, studied
the ancient history and religious systems of that remarkable land, and embodied his
acquisition in a work entitled, ‘Egypt, and the Wonders of the Land of the Pharaohs.’
Regarding the peculiar manifestations of those remarkable personalities who have claimed
or had claimed for them the position of ‘Messiah’ as the result of powerful spiritual inﬂuence,
he naturally included them amongst the objects of his attention, and in 1899 published a most
instructive little volume, entitled, ‘Modern Messiahs and. Wonder Workers,’ giving faithful
accounts of Emanuel Swedenborg, Ann Lee, Johanna Southcott, Joseph Smith, Edward
Irving, Thomas Lake Harris, Mary Ann Girling, James White, ‘The Mother, the Woman
Clothed with the Sun,’ Helena Petrovus Blavatsky, and Keshub Chunder Sen. Two booklets,
‘The Rise and Development of Religious Beliefs and Systems’ and “Materialisations and
Their Alleged Exposures,’ were also from his pen, as well as numerous articles in the current
spiritualistic press.
Thus he maintained a constant activity, while avoiding the publicity and personal
prominence which might easily have been accorded to so zealous a labourer in the cause of
truth. Referring to this in the Medium and Daybreak of Jan. 9th, 1885, he says: ‘I have taken
no active part in public work because that was not my forte; for however well meant the
efforts of others to form societies and establish places of meeting for worship, etc., yet, to my
view, they savoured too much of the old style, of which I had had enough; and I therefore
thought I could be more useful in doing my own work in the way which seemed pointed out.’
How well that work has been done, how faithfully he has discharged his trust is apparent to
all who have had the privilege of knowing him.
During the last few years of his sojourn here the inevitable weakening of old age gradually
prepared him for the change, and on the morning of June 29th he passed peacefully out of the
frail tenement of the ﬂesh into that beyond which had engaged his earnest attention
throughout a long well-spent life.
The interment took place on Monday afternoon, July 3rd, at Bowdon Parish Churchyard.
On Sunday evening, the 2nd inst, special reference was made to Mr. Oxley’s passing on at
the Central Association by the speaker for the evening, Mr. Walter Howell. A special
programme of music was also performed, including the ﬁrst movement, Mozart’s ‘Jupiter’
symphony and Haydn’s ‘Surprise’ symphony. The orchestra consisted of the following
gentlemen friends of Mr. J. H. Bury: Piano, Mr. Varley; principal violin, Mr. Harmer;
violins, Messrs. Kelsall, Shaw, and-Bury; viola, Mr. F. Seymour; ’cello, Mr. Truman; bass,
Mr. Hine. The violin solo so beautifully rendered by Mr. F. Harmer was composed by Mr.
Arthur Varley, F.C.M., specially for the occasion, Mr. Varley feeling that the ‘Dead March’
was not in keeping with Spiritualist sentiment. This solo is a work of the highest merit, and
the Central Association is to be congratulated on having obtained the services of such an
accomplished musician as Mr. Varley.
—~§~—
27
The whole of his work, numbering several thousand books, was published by Mr. Oxley and his friends at
their own charge, and distributed to the public entirely free of cost.
172
Paraffin Wax Moulds
Paraffin Wax Moulds were a rare form of physical mediumship; a detailed report was
published in Psypioneer February 2012 issue with the medium Catherine (Kate) Wood.28
In
the December 2014 issue Garth Willey turned attention to Arthur Conan Doyle and Harry
Houdini. The Facts of Psychic Science by Campbell Holms published in 1925, later re-
printed by 1965 by University Books, New York gave a brief referenced history on pages
444/447 of the phenomena, published below:
A very beautiful manifestation that spirits have frequently given is the formation of
paraffin-wax moulds of their materialised hands, feet and face, and even the head. If we dip a
hand or foot in melted paraffin and withdraw it, it will be clothed with a thin waxen glove,
the thickness of which may be increased by repeated dippings in the paraffin and alternate
immersions in cold water. If, now, the hand or foot could be withdrawn from the glove, the
latter would form a very perfect mould, which, if filled with liquid plaster of Paris, would
result—when the plaster solidified and the paraffin melted off—in an exact replica in plaster
of the hand or foot, on which the fine texture of the skin would be reproduced. A human hand
or foot cannot, however, be withdrawn from an adhesive wax mould without distorting and
rupturing it (and more particularly if the fingers are crossed and the wax glove is thin), but
that of a materialised spirit can be, merely by dematerialising it. Moulds so obtained form a
permanent and convincing proof of the actuality of the materialised spirit, for no human
being could produce the same sort of thing.
Paraffin moulds have been produced by many mediums; they appear to have been first
obtained through W. Eglinton in London, in Jan., 1876,29
and in the same year by Mrs. M. M.
Hardy, of Boston.30
Mr. Robert Cooper of Eastbourne describes Mrs. Hardy’s procedure in
Light (1897, p. 459). On the occasion he saw her she sat in a public hall in Boston, before
four or five hundred spectators. There was a table on the platform, the cloth on which reached
the ground. Under it there were placed two vessels, one containing melted paraffin and the
other cold water. Two well-known Bostonians supervised the proceedings on the platform.
Mrs. Hardy sat at the table, the lights were turned down, but there was sufficient for the
spectators to see the medium sitting motionless. After waiting a quarter of an hour raps were
heard, and on the vessels being examined a paraffin mould of a hand was found in the water.
The dish of paraffin had been weighed as a preliminary, and when weighed again its weight
was found to be reduced by exactly the weight of the mould. The performance was then
repeated. Mr. Cooper saw beautiful plaster casts of hands made from the moulds.
On other occasions, in 1896, moulds of spirit hands were produced in Mrs. Hardy’s
presence under peculiarly rigid test conditions. For the pails of liquid paraffin and cold water
were placed in a securely-locked box, made with wood and wire netting, which precluded the
medium, who sat near them, from herself touching the contents. The light was lowered, but
28
Update: See Volume 10. No. 11. November 2014 – Catherine Elizabeth Wood & Annie Fairlamb –
Correcting the record – Lis Warwood: http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP10.11November2014.pdf
Also: Volume 11. No.2. February 2015 – Catharine Elizabeth Wood (1852-1884): The final two years – Lis
Warwood: http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP11.2February2015.pdf
29
Twixt Two Worlds, p. 5
30
Sargent, Proof Palpable, 2nd ed., p. 220.
173
there was sufficient to see the time by a watch and the medium sitting motionless near the
box. After forty minutes’ wait a wax mould was found floating in the pail of water. An
account of a séance conducted in this way is given in The Spiritualist, for 1878, p. 168, and
the names of seven of the sitters who signed it are appended, one being Epes Sargent.
Some excellent moulds of spirit hands and feet were obtained through the mediumship of
Dr. Monck, and a detailed description by Mr. W. Oxley, of a séance held on April 11, 1876,
is recorded in The Spiritualist (for May 24, and July 26, 1878), in which illustrations are
given of a plaster cast of a hand and foot made from the moulds.31
Both of these were
evidently remarkably perfect casts; for the fingers are stretched asunder; the toes are of
peculiarly bulbous shape and one is elevated above the others. Mr. Oxley says that on
examining the plaster casts with a magnifying glass the pores of the skin and tortuous skin
markings were clearly visible.
In Paris, in 1877, many moulds were obtained of spirit heads. Descriptions of the séances
were published by Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan, who was one of the sitters, in The Spiritualist, for
June and July, 1877. The other sitters were the Count and Countess de Bullet, M. Levoff, a
well-known Russian gentleman; Mr. A. H. Firman, the medium, and Mrs. Firman.They were
all experienced investigators, and as their séance were entirely private and methodically
conducted, they obtained fine results (218).
The controlling spirit was the well-known “John King.” He often showed his materialised
form to the sitters and spoke audibly at all times. In his capacity as controlling spirit he did
little beyond directing the proceedings and assisting other spirits to materialise. The modus
operandi at each séance was arranged with John King at the previous séance. A galvanised-
iron bucket, eighteen inches in diameter, by twenty-four deep, was filled with melted paraffin
and ten per cent. of wax, heated to a temperature of 158 degrees Fahr. Also another large
vessel was filled with iced water. These were placed together just outside the cabinet
curtains. The medium having been entranced within the cabinet, the lights were extinguished
and soon John King walked out, showing himself by his well-known lamp, which illuminated
only himself.32
Soon the materialised spirit who intended to make the moulds was heard splashing with
the hot wax and cold water. From five to seven immersions in each were usually needed to
make a substantial mould. The Count de Bullet was then asked to take hold of the spirit head
encased in the wax mould, whereupon it was evacuated from the mould, which remained
empty in his hands and was at once immersed in the iced water, where it floated. One of the
moulds was estimated to weigh about four pounds.
Two or three spirits, male and female, gave their services for the production of these
moulds. One purported to be “Alexandrine,” the sister of M. Levoff, who died thirty years
previously. At first, only moulds of the face were obtained, and there were many failures due
to distortion through the use of unsuitable paraffin at too high a temperature. It is stated that
in the successful plaster casts the plaits of hair were beautifully reproduced. In some the eyes
were closed, in others, open. In some the mouth was shut, in others there was a smile,
showing the teeth. From the descriptions given by O’Sullivan the heads appear to have been
31
Reproduced in Light for 1882, p. 225.
32
See Volume 7. No. 06. June 2014 – The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations in England:
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.6June2011.pdf
174
beautiful and life-like. In 1879, similar wax models were obtained through Firman in London
(see article by Mr. W. Oxley, in Medium and Daybreak, 1879, p. 709, which illustrates the
plaster casts of the heads).
An account by W. P. Adshead of the formation of moulds of spirit feet through the
mediumship of Miss C. E. Wood, at Belper, is given in the Medium and Daybreak, for March
30th, 1877, and also in Smedley’s Some Reminiscences, p. 121. The séance was one of a
series held in February, 1877.The whole operation was seen in good light, for the two pails
containing hot paraffin and cold water were placed outside the cabinet. The medium was
enclosed in a wire cage within the cabinet. First a male spirit, “Bennie,” came out and sat on
a chair in full view of about thirty sitters. Talking humorously, he lifted up his white robe and
dipped his left foot about ten times alternately in the pail containing melted wax and that
containing cold water; he then put his left leg across his right knee, tapped the mould all
round, took it off and handed it to Mr. Smedley. Then a female spirit, “Maggie,” came out,
bowed gracefully and, proceeding in the same way, made a wax mould of her left foot and
handed it to Mr. Adshead. She then began to do the same thing with her right foot, but after
two or three dips the power failed, and she rose, bowed and disappeared into the cabinet. The
two moulds, which are illustrated in Smedley’s book [as shown], were quite different, one
was 9 inches by 4, and the other 8 by 2¼. They were preserved in a glass case for some years
and then plaster casts were made.
In The Spiritualist, for March 1877, Mr. Thomas Ashton published an article describing a
séance held on the 2nd of the same month in Newcastle-on-Tyne with Miss Annie Fairlamb,
as medium. The medium sat outside the cabinet in good light, Mr. Ashton holding both her
hands. Almost immediately, the medium’s spirit guide “Minnie” was heard splashing within
the cabinet with the paraffin and water; and finally, on the signal being given, the cabinet was
entered and found to be empty, but on the floor lay two paraffin moulds, representing the
spirit’s right and left hands.
Similar experiments were made in 1920 and 1922 in Paris and Warsaw by Dr. Geley, Prof.
Richet and others, with the Polish medium, M. Franek Klusky. Accounts of these are given in
the Revue Métapsychique, No. 5, for 1921, and Nos. 1 and 5 for 1922, with reproductions of
photographs of the moulds and plaster casts. A bath of hot water with melted paraffin floating
on it was placed on a table close to the medium; no cold water bath was provided. The room
was darkened but not completely, both the medium’s hands were held, and then the usual
splashing was heard. A large number of moulds have been obtained through M. Klusky; of
hands, feet and parts of the face. After a séance he was found well smeared with the wax, just
as Crawford’s medium was found to be smeared with clay. On one occasion, the paraffin was
specially coloured and the chemical cholesterine secretly added by Dr. Geley, and the
substance of the moulds was seen to be similarly coloured and was proved by chemical
reaction to contain cholesterine.33
The moulds, unlike those obtained by earlier investigators,
were very thin and fragile, less than one-tenth of an inch thick, which, of course, is a good
guarantee of their transcendental origin. Plaster casts representing hands of adults are usually
of diminutive size, some being only five inches long. A number are preserved in the
International Metapsychic Institute in Paris. The wrist is not well represented, but in some the
33
A similar test was made in February, 1876, by T. P. Barkas with the medium Miss Fairlamb. He mixed
magenta dye with the paraffin, unknown to anyone, and obtained three moulds of hands and feet all tinged with
magenta (Light, 1886, p. 29).
175
fingers are in various attitudes and some represent two hands clasped together or with the
fingers crossed.
It is interesting to note that the presence of
spirit operators during these experiments was
often indicated otherwise than by the produc-
tion of moulds, for Dr. Geley records that an
illuminated hand was actually seen to plunge
itself in the liquid paraffin; also that raps were
heard, objects were moved about without
contact, and the bath of hot water and paraffin,
weighing about eighteen pounds, was lifted
from the table, carried over the heads of the
medium and sitters, and deposited gently on
the floor beyond, the medium’s hands being
held continuously.34
Accounts of a séance held by Mr. and Mrs.
Hewat McKenzie with M. Klusky are
published in Psychic Science, the Quarterly
Review of the British College of Psychic
Science, No. 1, for 1922. It took place in
Warsaw in May, 1922, and within five minutes
of extinguishing the light five paraffin moulds
were made and were found lying on the table
still warm. The medium was stripped
before the séance, his clothes were searched,
and both his hands were held during the
phenomena. The five moulds are illustrated in
Psychic Science. Like most moulds,
unfortunately, they are rather curtailed and ex-
panded at the wrist, but the pose of the fingers
is such that no mere withdrawal of the
materialised hand could have occurred, i.e., the
evacuation of the moulds must have been
accompanied by dematerialisation of the hand.
—~§~—
Photograph shown Dr. Geley records in his book “Clairvoyance and Materialisation” 1927
pages 232-233 re: Fig 79-
This is a cast from a flattened mould, which was obtained under the conditions now to
be described. It was formed at the same sitting as the seventh and eighth, and was placed
on the back of my left hand, which was holding the medium’s (Kluski) hand.35
It was
very warm and still soft. I did not move, and at the end of the sitting I saw that it had
subsided.
34
Revue Métapsychique, No. 6, for 1921, p. 300.
35
Note the different spelling Kluski – Campbell Holms incorrectly calls him Klusky.
176
Evidently this placing on my hand was intentional. This would be a fresh proof (if
such were required) that it had been made then and there.
From this point of view it has a special interest. By reason of the flattening the
anatomical details are less distinct, though visible. The cast was unfortunately cracked
across by an accident.
Below is the James Hewat McKenzie Psychic Science report referred to; readers will note the
more usual spelling of “Kluski.”
WAX GLOVES PROCURED FROM MATERIALIZED HANDS
By the Principal.36
HERE we have indisputable evidence of the corporeal reality of ghosts in solid form. These
wax gloves, or moulds, have been produced by the insertion of ectoplastic [sic] hands into a
bowl of molten paraffin wax, through the mediumship of M. Franck Kluski, of Warsaw,
Poland, at an experiment conducted by myself in May, 1922.37
The medium’s right hand was held by Mrs. McKenzie's left, and the medium’s left hand
was held by another sitter. The five wax gloves illustrated were produced within about five
minutes of the time when the first was laid lightly upon my hand and coat sleeve, and while
still in the hot molten state. As it was laid upon my hand several drops of hot wax splashed
from it upon my clothes. The remaining four were placed upon the table in close succession,
at about one minute interval between each.
The medium, previous to the experiment, was stripped naked and examined by me, in the
presence of my interpreter, a gentleman who had never before sat with M. Kluski. The
medium then put on another suit of clothes after same had been carefully examined. After the
medium and six friends were seated, I was requested to lock the door. A 60-candle power
electric lamp illuminated the room for some minutes after the séance began. Soon after this
was extinguished, splashing was heard in the molten wax, which was contained in a basin
upon the table immediately in front of me, creating a sound similar to what one might expect
if a hand or hands were being actively moved amongst the liquid paraffin.
These gloves were without doubt freshly constructed, being soft to the touch when the
first one was laid on my arm. Professor Geley, of the Institut Métapsychique of Paris, has
carried out several experiments with Kluski, particulars of which can be found in the “Revue
Métapsychique” of January and February, 1922, which conclusively prove the ability of this
medium to produce these wax moulds by abnormal means.
36
See Volume 3. No. 08. August 2007 – A Knight Errant of Psychic Science James Hewat McKenzie:
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.8August07..pdf
37
Franek Kluski was born in Warsaw in 1873; his profession was in banking, journalism and also a poet. His
mediumship was active 1918-1925, taking a break due the Polish / Russian war in 1920. He gave up
mediumship due to poor health, and had a heart condition after being shot in the chest apparently in a duel
around 1900. Kluski was a married family man; he was not a professional medium and accepted no fee. He died
in January 1943 of Tuberculosis and was buried in Warsaw.
177
The moulds are now on view at the College to members and their friends, and it will be
seen on examination that they are one piece throughout.38
Nos. 1, 2, 4 and 5 have been
filled with plaster of Paris to
protect them from damage, No.
3 alone being left in its virgin
state, to show the interior
structure, which is a fine
example of the exceedingly
intricate webbed walls that
surround the finger extremities
where they touch the palm of the
hand within, and while the
ectoplastic hand was in solid
form. No ordinary human hand
could possibly escape from such
a fragile shell without shattering
it completely, and no known
substance could have produced
the anatomical structure of these
gloves except ectoplasm, which
has the peculiar quality of
rapidly solidifying exactly in the
form of human flesh and as
quickly melting into a gaseous
fluid.
Nos. 1, 2, 4 and 5 show the
front view of the hands, the
upper row showing the same
hands, some reversed and others
at a slightly different angle.
The lower mould, marked 3,
has the wrist end showing the
interior structure of No. 3
mould, which is a closed fist.
The interior cells of these gloves show the minute anatomical structure in all their detail,
exactly similar to the human hand, with skin, pores, palm lines and finger nails.
Manufacturers of wax moulds have been asked if they would undertake to construct duplicate
wax gloves by any process known to them; but all have failed to produce such objects and
have expressed themselves as completely mystified as to how these were constructed,
although they declare that they could only have been produced by living hands, as signs of
muscular contraction are clearly shown.
38
Glossy Photographic prints of the moulds, showing fuller details, can be obtained from the College; 1/- each
or 2/6 for set of three. Postage 1½d.
178
Each of these gloves is taken from an entirely different hand, both as to size and
anatomical structure, three of them being in all probability masculine hands, and the other
two feminine.
Anyone interested to try the experiment of producing such moulds may do so easily by
procuring ten lb. of paraffin wax from an oil and colour merchant. Place this in a basin with
about a gallon of boiling water, and allow the wax to melt until the whole becomes liquid,
with a temperature of about 120 degrees Fahr. Dip the hand into this liquid up to the wrist,
and then withdraw it and allow the wax to congeal. In a few minutes the wax will solidify
exactly like a glove. You will find the impossibility of withdrawing the hand from this wax
glove without completely destroying it, as the centre of the hand is larger than the wrist
through which it must pass.
It is important to note that these moulds are quite dissimilar from the hands of the
medium.
Many of the moulds that have been constructed during the past year through the
mediumship of M. Kluski are moulds of two hands clasped together, with the fingers
intertwined in various ways, and particulars of these may be given in a later number of this
magazine.
I am proud to be the custodian of such remarkable articles, and trust it may be the good
fortune of the College to one day have a visit from this famous medium.
—~§~—
Gustave Geley was born in 1868 at Montceau-les-Mines and died as a result of an air crash
leaving Warsaw for Paris on the 15th, July 1924. He had been conducting more experiments
with Franek Kluski, at Warsaw his last two sittings were on July 3rd, and 11th, (published in
Revue Métapsychique Jan-Feb 1925) prior to these more séances were conducted, the quote
that follows applies to a seance held on June 20th, 1924; Psychic Science, notes: “This glove
and all those obtained during the séances were in a little bag which Dr. Geley was holding in
his hand at the moment of this death. The aeroplane’s crash broke the moulds into tiny bits”.
179
Finally the Society for Psychical Research has recently reviewed the Spiritualists’ National
Union, Britten Memorial Museum booklet on Wax Moulds:39
Reviewed for the SPR by: Tom Ruffles.40
The Britten Memorial Museum,
named after Emma Hardinge Britten,
is housed in the Arthur Findlay
College at Stansted Hall, Stansted
Mountfitchet, Essex. The College is
administered by the Spiritualists’
National Union, and the museum
contains a wide range of exhibits
relating to Spiritualism. Among these
are a number of casts made from wax
moulds, artefacts said to demonstrate
the reality of spirits. The museum’s
curator, Paul Gaunt (also editor of
both the Psypioneer and The Pioneer
electronic journals) has compiled this
informative booklet which discusses
the museum’s collection of casts,
other instances of them in the
literature, and the debate that took
place within the Society for Psychical
Research over the evidential value
they provide.
The theory behind the moulds is that a
spirit would be able to produce one by
materialising a portion of itself,
usually a hand but also part of a foot
or even its face, and pushing it into a bowl of warm paraffin wax. The resulting wax sleeve
could be set in cold water, leaving a mould that would be undamaged upon the limb’s
dematerialisation. Repeated immersions, building up layers, would serve to increase the
thickness and strength of the mould. As wax is so fragile, it can be filled with plaster of Paris
which upon setting retains (leaving aside distortions and damage from handling) the shape
and detail of the materialised body part in a more permanent form.
Wax moulds date from as early as the 1870s, but those at Stansted Hall were donated by
Sutton-in-Ashfield Spiritualist church in Nottinghamshire, where they had been on display
since 1938. These, Gaunt suggests, may well have been the last done by mediums (as
opposed to researchers). An article in the 16 December issue of Two Worlds, which is
reprinted, describes their production through the mediumship of William and George Finney,
uncle and nephew, at Sutton-in-Ashfield.
39
The booklet is available from the SNU online shop: http://www.shop.snu.org.uk/new.html
40
Society for Psychical Research: http://www.spr.ac.uk/publication/wax-spirit-moulds . Reprinted by permission.
180
According to the Two Worlds article, the moulds were created by the pair in informal
conditions, not during a séance but sitting in the dark in a cupboard under the stairs with
buckets of melted wax and cold water. The booklet contains three colour photographs of the
museum’s casts, wax still adhering, showing them in all their strange beauty. One is of a pair
of hands with interlinked fingers presented in a way that, it has been argued, would be more
difficult to fake than it would a single hand.
The article is followed by an outline history of wax moulds, placing them in the context of
the development of Spiritualist phenomena. Wax moulds were preceded by impressions left
in putty and flour, but paraffin offered a more suitable material, and the technique was used
by a number of mediums. Gaunt gives a short overview of some of them, but notes that each
generally only tried the procedure for a brief period, and after becoming fashionable in the
1870s it went into abeyance until revived by the remarkable Franek Kluski, subject of a
recent book by Zofia Weaver.41
Weaver and Gaunt both mention that at least in Kluski’s case
it was a messy business, with splashes of wax everywhere, which perhaps made it
unappealing for sitters even though the results were startling.
Gaunt includes sections on experiments with Kluski at the Institut Métapsychique
International in Paris and in Warsaw conducted by Gustave Geley (three photographs, two of
hands and one of a foot, from Geley’s 1927 Clairvoyance and Materialisation are shown, the
hands revealing remarkable skin features), and on the rather fractious debate that took place
in the pages of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research in the early 1990s over
whether it was possible to reproduce moulds like Kluski’s by normal means.
Gaunt’s conclusion from the debate is that a living hand can be removed from a wax mould
IF the wax is of a reasonable thickness caused by repeated immersion; but the thinness that
Kluski is reported to have achieved through a single immersion, and without setting in cold
water, should make the operation impossible as the mould would be too fragile for
withdrawal without its destruction. His verdict is that, pending further research which
adheres to Geley’s precise method (which recreations so far have failed to do), Kluski’s
moulds can be considered good evidence for the return of spirits.
—~§~—
41
Other Realities?: The Enigma of Franek Kluski’s Mediumship by Zofia Weaver:
http://www.spr.ac.uk/publication/other-realities-enigma-franek-kluski%E2%80%99s-mediumship
181
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages
294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan the Mystery Show Trial,by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ – a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback
ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry
H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45Psypioneer references by
Leslie Price pages 39-42:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009.
ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-056667-
1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
182
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue, or to contact Psypioneer please e-mail:
psypioneersub@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
