{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v12_n4_aug_2016.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V12 N4 Aug 2016","mylang":"de"}
112
F
—~§~—
—~§~—
113 – Dr. John Lamond compiled by Paul J. Gaunt
Dr. John Lamond’s Passing – The Last Events in his Life – Two Worlds
Dr. John Lamond’s Last Bow – His Views on Spiritualism’s Future – James
Leigh
Dr. John Lamond—His Meeting with Rosemary - F. H. Wood
Memorial Service at Fortune Theatre
Ancient Egyptian Language Recorded – The Rosemary Mediumship – Two
Worlds
124 – Meurig Morris compiled by Paul J. Gaunt
A Medium Strikes Back – Harry Price
The Story of “Power” and his Medium – James Leigh
Endnote
135 – The Spiritual Athenaeum
138 – F W H Myers - Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death -
146 – Notes of resumed Third Materialization Seance with Mrs Duncan
150 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
Established 2004
Volume 12, No. 4: July – August 2016
113
DR. JOHN LAMOND
—~§~—
In the last issue of Psypioneer we published Joan of Arc and Dr. Lamond, taken from
Towards Eternal Day – from the psychic memoirs of a playwright Graham Moffat. In this
issue we draw attention to the life of John Lamond; below is taken from The Two Worlds,
July 22nd 1932 page 470:
DR. JOHN LAMOND’S PASSING.
THE LAST EVENTS IN HIS LIFE.
THE REV. JOHN LAMOND, D.D., one of the
most popular ﬁgures in English Spiritualism, passed
to the Higher Life on Sunday, July 17th, after a short
but severe illness.
He was feeling ﬁt and well when, three weeks ago,
our representative called on him to obtain what has
proved to be his last interview. This will appear in
THE TWO WORLDS next week as the third
contribution to the series of interviews portraying
“Spiritualism from all sides”—the second of which is
published in the present issue.
Dr. Lamond spoke to our representative for over two hours, and then rushed off to
attend a meeting of “The Seekers” He had been re-writing his autobiography when our
representative called on him, and had laid it aside to chat on “the old days.”
Then, a day or two afterwards, one of his friends wrote: “You will be sorry to hear
that shortly after your visit Dr. Lamond had a severe attack of angina pectoris, which
has left him very weak. He will write to you when he is stronger.”
Later Dr. Lamond wrote to our representative, thanking him for the loan of a copy of
Violet Tweedale’s work “The Cosmic Christ”—a book which, alas! he did not live to
read. He also enclosed an autographed photograph of Sir Oliver Lodge and himself.
“I am still very weak, but making some headway towards recovered health,”
he concluded.
Two days later he passed forward to the land of smiles. He was a great man, and
there is no one in Spiritualism who can quite ﬁll his place.
Dr. Lamond was another clergyman who investigated the case for Spiritualism, and,
becoming convinced, sacriﬁced all to stand by the facts. He sacriﬁced a comfortable
living in the Church to tour the country as an itinerant Spiritualist speaker, and endured
many hardships. Settling down in London, he became familiar to the congregations at
many Spiritualist centres.
He was a great follower of “Power,” the control of Mrs. Morris. He had also a great
respect for Joan of Arc and Arthur Conan Doyle, and wrote popular biographies of
each.
Rev. John Lamond
114
Given to our representative a few days before his passing, his last interview, in
which he told the story of his life, will be published exclusively in THE TWO
WORLDS next week.
—~§~—
The journal’s representative was James Leigh (1890-1962), a pen name for James
Cumberbirch; he took his pseudonym from his mother’s maiden name of Sarah Leigh.1
He
authored numerous books including the “Manual and Who’s Who of Spiritualism and
Psychic Research,” published in 1936. He was editor of Prediction and during his career he
was assistant editor of the “Two Worlds”. Leigh was one of the first to undertake a detailed
report into the alleged powers of the materialising medium Victoria Helen Duncan; the
investigation took place on the invitation of the Manchester Central Spiritualist Church in
1932. Psypioneer has previously published Leigh’s interview with Helen Duncan’s control
“Albert,” please see Vol.6. No.2: February 2010.
Below is taken from the Two Worlds Friday July29 1932 front page & pages 482-483:
DR. JOHN LAMOND’S LAST BOW.
His Views on Spiritualism’s Future.
BY JAMES LEIGH.
On Monday, July 18th, Dr. John
Lamond passed to the Higher Life. A
few days previously he gave this—
his last—interview to our
representative. Two days before his
passing he autographed the adjoining
photograph, and sent it to Mr. Leigh.
It shows him standing with his friend,
Sir Oliver Lodge.
Not only is this the last interview
with Dr. John Lamond, but the
portrait is the last one taken.2
His passing came very
unexpectedly, and was preceded by a
very short illness. We, however,
publish the interview as it was
written—before Dr. Lamond’s brief
illness, and at a time when he was
feeling exceptionally alive and well.
DR. JOHN LAMOND, who was one of the most loved figures in London
Spiritualism, has certainly sacriﬁced much to advance its work. I was glad to hear,
when interviewing him recently, that he is at present engaged in writing an
autobiography, for it is good to know that, whether they are ever published during his
life-time or not, the many important facts concerning his distinguished career are being
put on record.
1
James Cumberbirch: http://www.cumberbatch.org/index.php/people/154-james-cumberbirch-private-dm2-168524
2
This photograph often carries the caption: Sir Oliver Lodge (left) and John Lamond leaving the Meurig
Morris trial (April 5-19 1932).
115
Sitting in the study of his ﬂat at Earl’s Court, Dr. Lamond unfolded to me, very
frankly, the story of his life. As a young man he wandered all over the North of England
and Scotland as a Temperance advocate. Ever since he was 16 he had spoken in public,
and on one occasion, when visiting Glasgow, he was allowed a week’s holiday from his
usual platform work to hear the speeches of the most accomplished orators.
“It was then that I first came in contact with Spiritualism,” he said. “I saw a little bill
which advertised a ‘trance oration’ to be delivered at the Trongate, Glasgow. It
interested me deeply, but it was more out of curiosity than anything else that I
wandered up several flights of stairs, and found myself at length in the hall where the
lecture was to be given.
“A man came on the platform, and afterwards I learned he was Mr. J. J. Morse, the
renowned trance medium, and former Editor of THE TWO WORLDS. He delivered an
oration which probably lasted an hour. It was one of the most extraordinary addresses I
have ever heard, not only from the literary and constructive standpoints, but also on
account of the deep insight and knowledge displayed. At the close I went up to discuss
with him certain points which had arisen in the course of the oration. To my great
surprise he told me he did not know a single thing about them, and certainly our
subsequent conversation conﬁrmed that view.
“I did not know what to make of it all. When he was normal, I felt I was at least as
learned a man as Morse, but when he went into trance and passed under the inﬂuence of
a spirit whom I later knew as ‘Tien Sien Tie,’ he was intellectually far the superior.
They saw I was interested, and I was invited to attend that night a seance at James
Bowman’s house, where Morse again went into trance.
“Another surprise awaited me, for, far from hearing the philosophic address which I
had anticipated from my earlier experience, I was greeted by a personality whose wit
and spontaneity were marvellous in the extreme. This was the ‘Strolling Player’—
another control.3
“The upshot was that I became so interested that arrangements were made for me to
attend a seance at which David Duguid was to be present. I saw him tied to an old-
fashioned arm-chair, and the knots were sealed with wax. Then the lights were lowered,
but there was always sufficient illumination left to see the medium’s arms tied to the
chair. Sitting by his side, I had a remarkably good view of the whole of the
proceedings.4
SPIRIT PAINTINGS PRODUCED.
“Previously a palette and brushes had been placed on an adjacent table. I was asked
to tear a corner of the card on which a painting was to be executed, to ensure no
duplication, as only my piece would ﬁt into the space. I do not remember exactly what
time the phenomenon occupied, but I saw the brushes stand up and I heard them
dabbing on the card. They produced this beautiful picture which I have here on my
3
James J. Morse, Tien Sien Tie etc please see: Psypioneer Vol. 8 No. 10 October 2012:
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.10October2012.pdf
4
Ernest Thompson donated numerous items to the Britten Memorial Museum, for example a spirit painting
through the mediumship of David Duguid, done in five minutes in complete darkness independently of the hands of the
medium. Information on David Duguid can be found in “Pioneer”, Vol. 2, No. 4, July 2015: Trance & Direct Spirit
Art – David Duguid: http://www.snu.org.uk/spiritualism/pioneer
116
mantelpiece. I remember that James Bowman and Hugh Nisbet, the publisher, were
present at this seance. After the production of the picture they went on with the
dictation of some book about Egypt.
“I went out and bought four books on Spiritualism, and I remember I was very
fortunate in my choice—‘The Arcana of Spiritualism’ (by Hudson Tuttle). ‘The Seers
of the Ages’ (by Dr. J. M. Peebles). Cora L. V. Tappan’s ‘Discourses,’ and David
Duguid’s ‘Hafed, Prince of Persia.’
“These four books I bought, and I never again entered a seance room for thirty-seven
years. However, during all this time I studied the subject deeply, and was never without
a book on Spiritualism. I studied Davis’s ‘Harmonial Philosophy,’ ‘Divine Revelation,’
and ‘Penetralia.’ Then I thought I would like to have some personal experience. I sat
with Mrs. Etta Wriedt, but the most extraordinary manifestations I ever witnessed were
those I saw in the presence of Mrs. Harris-Kay. Every new seance I attended with this
medium seemed to be more brilliant than the last.”
Dr. Lamond proceeded to describe some of the remarkable evidences he obtained,
but lack of space prevents their inclusion. He spoke of his subsequent travels in France
where he went specially to obtain the material for his interesting biography of that great
medium, Joan of Arc.
So immersed did he become in Spiritualism’s work that eventually he gave up
his church at Edinburgh, and sacriﬁced a comfortable livelihood to tour the country
as an itinerant speaker on behalf of the Spiritualist Movement.
Settling down in London, he wrote a biography of the late Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle—and his book, published last year, met with warm commendation from
every quarter.
THE DESTINY OF SPIRITUALISM.
When I asked Dr. Lamond what deep conviction his Spiritualistic researches had
brought home to him, he said, “I believe we are living in a New Age. At the end of
every two thousand years there has always been historically a great uplift in humanity.
In another sixty years we shall have reached the two thousand. There are already many
indications of a great change. The dogmas of the Church are gradually dying away, and
so-called ‘new’ conceptions are springing up. Now, I believe very ﬁrmly that in ﬁfty or
a hundred years theologians will be talking about the ‘ether’ and ‘vibrations.’ and so on.
Survival and the possibility of communication with those on the other side will have
become a commonplace belief. The power of prayer and of love will be far more
emphasised than is the case to-day. All this will not come in a moment, mark you. I
may say that I see behind all dogma a great truth that has become stereotyped and lost
its potency through constant reiteration. Spiritualistic knowledge can bind us back to
many of these realities.
“Do you think Spiritualism will in due time be preached inside the churches?” I
asked.
“I don’t think the day is far off when a considerable section of the clergy will accept
Spiritualistic knowledge,’ said Dr. Lamond. “The tendency is now deﬁnitely in that
direction.”
117
“Do you think the Churches will swallow up the Spiritualist Movement?”
“Oh, no! I recognise the tremendous inﬂuence of the Church and the great work it
has done and is doing, but I believe that if you gave spiritualism over to the Churches
to-morrow they would fail to appreciate its true signiﬁcance. That is the value of the
Spiritualist organisation outside the Churches. But in a gradual fashion the Churches are
being brought to see the great value of Spiritualism, and once they realise its power and
commence preaching it from the pulpit with true understanding, it will never be lost.
The Church is always slow to act, but once it grasps a truth it never lets go. Once they
get a true appreciation of what Spiritualism is, and fully understand its vital message,
they will perpetuate it. It is bound to go on and on. But you always need the outside
independent organisation to agitate when injustice is done, and to stir up enthusiasm.
And to me Spiritualism is the sublimest fact of the present century.”
When a man gives up livelihood, cuts short old associations that have with the
passing of years become very dear to him, and even runs the risk of losing his material
happiness and his dearest friends—he is usually moved by some great power outside
himself, and to which he must needs be subject, unless he sells his soul.
For years Dr. Lamond studied Spiritualism, knowing all the while that he would
eventually have to choose between that humble, unpopular movement and his Church.
Few people know of his sacriﬁces, and he is himself the last to voice them. Yes, he
chose the most difficult path that is open to men—the way of self-sacriﬁce, but in so
doing he found redemption and a great peace of mind.
He is another of the clergy who decided to sincerely investigate Spiritualism before
superﬁcially condemning it. That simple decision changed the course of his life.
The issue continues:
DR. JOHN LAMOND—HIS MEETING WITH ROSEMARY.
By F. H. WOOD, Mus. Doc.
IT would be presumptuous of me to write an appreciation of the late Dr. Lamond,
for I met him only once; but that solitary occasion—palnned [sic], as I was told
afterwards, by our mutual spirit-guides—will always remain in my memory as one of
the most helpful in my psychic career.
On Sunday, November 18, 1928, Dr. Lamond addressed a public meeting in a
certain town in the North of England, and I was invited to support him on the platform.
Two days afterwards, knowing of my writings on Rosemary’s mediumship,5
Dr.
Lamond invited us both to tea at the house of a mutual friend. Those were the early
days of Rosemary’s development, but his kindly courtesy placed her at ease
immediately, and after tea we held a short sitting which even the noise of passing trams
did not seriously affect.
Lady Nona, Rosemary’s guide, whose sayings are well known to readers of this
journal, at once came through and wrote:—
5
Photograph shown of Rosemary is archived in the Britten Memorial Museum at the Arthur Findlay College,
Stansted. On the back it states: Portrait of “Rosemary,” a new writing and trance – control sensitive, of
Blackpool. To E. W. Oaten. Esq, with Dr. F. H. Wood’s compliments Sept 2. 1929.”
118
“It is a great privilege to be here to-
night, and to write in the presence of this
great teacher on your side. Dr. Lamond, I
have a message for you from a man whom
you knew in your youth.”
Nona proceeded to write the
message— an evidential one from Dr.
Lamond’s former minister, who had
taught him his earliest lessons from the
Bible. Much of it was personal and
private to Dr. Lamond, but the following
may be quoted from “The Rosemary
Records” as being of general interest:—
“His teaching in those days was of a
just and loving God. But one Who was
very severe rather than loving. Now he
says that he has long realised how wrong
was his conception, and how bitterly he
regrets the lost opportunities for helping
and comforting those he used to teach. He
is now with you as one of your guides,
and has every conﬁdence in the ultimate
success of this great movement.”
The written message was followed
immediately by Lady Nona’s trance-
control. She answered several questions
put to her by Dr. Lamond, especially on her earth-association with Egypt, long ago. No
useful purpose could be served, she told him, by resuscitating any bygone civilisation.
Egypt had been great in the material sense, as were most civilisations of former times.
If only people to-day could be made to realise how short their earthly pilgrimage was in
comparison to their spiritual development, they would think less of material and more
of spiritual greatness. Answering a further question by Dr. Lamond on the earth-
cataclysms which were at that time alleged to be impending, Nona replied that she saw
no indication of unusual physical calamities. There would be a tremendous mental
upheaval in men’s minds in the near future: a great shaking-up and readjustment of
ideas; and we ought to feel proud, said Nona, “To be living on the earth at this time.
The opportunities for service were so great, and the effects of our work would be so far-
reaching.”
As Rosemary returned to normal consciousness, she felt that Nona was disappointed
at not being able to hold control any longer under the noise of the trafﬁc outside. But
Dr. Lamond seemed most interested, and shortly afterwards bade us an affectionate
farewell. He spoke encouragingly to Rosemary on her great gift, which “would
develop,” he thought, “rapidly in country places where she could be among the quiet
hills.” It was altogether a memorable two hours, spent in the stimulating company of a
ﬁne soul and a real spiritual Greatheart.
119
On his return to London, Dr. Lamond sent me the following letter:—
“DEAR DR. WOOD,—The message given me last night by your friend was
altogether remarkable. I recognised the sender at once. This young lady has in my
judgment distinct psychic gifts. With all kind regards. Yours faithfully, JOHN
LAMOND.”
He was good enough to add, for postscript: “It has been a great privilege for me to
meet you: I trust not for the last time.”
Dr. Lamond’s hope has not been realised, for his passing on July 17 last has made its
fulﬁlment impossible on this side.6
That we shall meet again, either in our psychic
contacts or on the other side (or even both) I am as certain as that I write this record. He
sacriﬁced much, preferring to “lay up his treasure in Heaven.” God will see to it that he
has his full reward.
The issue concludes:
MEMORIAL SERVICE AT FORTUNE THEATRE.
A SPECIAL Memorial Service to Dr. John Lamond was held at the Fortune Theatre
on Sunday night last (writes our London correspondent). Mr. Laurence Cowen
presided, and special messages were read from Sir Oliver Lodge and Mr. Graham
Moffat. Nearly every Spiritualist of note in the London area was present at the service,
which marked a very impressive tribute to Dr. Lamond's memory.
The theatre provided a most impressive picture. Though the weather was dreadfully
inclement, the auditorium was packed, every seat being occupied and many standing.
The stage was also ﬁlled, as the several speakers and other of Dr. Lamond’s friends,
some ﬁfteen in number, occupied the chairs, forming a half-circle background to the
Chairman’s seat and table, on the right of which sat Mrs. Meurig Morris. A great
quantity of magniﬁcent lilies were banked up in front of the Chairman’s table and on
the organ. The view from the auditorium was superb, with its purple velvet curtain
stage background.
The atmosphere was noticeably electric, and many psychics present were enraptured
at the forces they felt. Dr. Lamond was seen by many, standing side by side with Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle, facing the congregation. It is interesting to note here that Lady
Conan Doyle sat next to Denis Doyle on the stage, but the other members of the Doyle
family occupied a private box, all having accompanied Lady Doyle from Crowborough
specially to be present, and returning there after the service.
It was a delightful assembling of the dear Doctor’s friends, and to listen to the
spoken tributes was a glorious experience. Even “Power,” who only stayed 20 minutes,
made signiﬁcant references to his passing and his continuance in the work he had been
doing.
6
A point of reference: We can note at the start of the article John Lamond died on July 18th, later July 17th is
given. Lis Warwood confirms that he died on July 18, 1932, not July 17. John Lamond: GRO Deaths Sep 1932
Kensington 1a 98. National Probate Calendar (Index of Wills and Administrations 1858-1966: “LAMOND the
Reverend John of 11 Coleherne-mansions Bolton-gardens West Earls Court Middlesex died 18 July 1932.
Probate London 8 September to Walter Oliphant solicitor James William Herries journalist and Alexander
Wallace Taylor solicitor. Effects £1987 3s 4d.”
120
“I am very proud to have provided such evidence of the love Dr. Lamond inspired in
all who knew him, and of the reverence in which we held him—and his continued
presence,” Mr. Cowen said to me at the conclusion of the service.
—~§~—
Some further information on the above article: “Dr. John Lamond—His meeting with
Rosemary,” by F. H. Wood may be helpful.
Lady Nona became Rosemary’s guide in October 1928, Nona’s utterances became known as
“The Rosemary Records” which were received by writing and trance through Rosemary. Six
series of the Records were published in the Two Worlds; an outline of Nona’s “Earth-story”
was published in the Two Worlds May 22nd 1932. Below is a short quote from an article by
Dr. Wood which gives some background to Lady Nona taken from the British College of
Psychic Science Quarterly Transactions Vol. XI. No.3. October 1932:
In an article on Evolution and Reincarnation, which appeared in this journal for
April, 1931, I quoted a number of statements given in trance-speech and automatic
writing by an Egyptian guide called “Lady Nona,” through an English girl called
Rosemary. The Editor added a note at the end of the article, in which he stated,
“We do not as yet know enough to determine how far the messages which come
through this medium represent the thought of the communicating Intelligence.”
Mr. De Brath’s comment was quite fair. The identity of spirit-guides is always a
difficult question, but when they claim to have lived their Earth-life thousands of
years ago, the problem becomes more difficult, for few or no records remain to test
their statements. Dr. Neville Whymant has, through direct-voice mediumship,
contacted a spirit, who might have been Confucius, speaking in a Chinese idiom
used about 500 B.C. “Lady Nona,” the guide of Rosemary, claims to have lived in
the time of the Pharoahs [sic], probably some 800 years before the time of
Confucius. If her statement be true, Lady Nona is probably one of the most remote
spirit-guides actively associated with modern research. Her alleged Earth-life
antedates that of Malachi, the famous “Imperator” of Stainton Moses, by nearly a
thousand years. Such a remote Earth-association might help to explain the mature
wisdom of Lady Nona, as shown in her teaching, and also her views upon such
issues as Reincarnation, both of which were quoted in my former article.
—~§~—
121
Published below is taken
from The Two Worlds,
Friday July 22nd 1938
front page; a lecture by
Dr. Frederick Herbert
Wood given at the
‘International Institute
for Psychical Research,’
on July 14th 1938. The
Institute was established
in 1934 for the purpose
of investigating psychic
phenomena, primarily by
the method of scientific
research. In 1939 the
‘British College of
Psychic Science,’ and the
‘International Institute
for Psychical Research,’ amalgamated forming the ‘International Institute for Psychic
Investigation’. For further details please see Psypioneer February 2011. The image shows
the International Institute for Psychical Research Ltd. Walton House, Walton Street, London
S.W.3
Ancient Egyptian Language Recorded
The Rosemary Mediumship
ON Thursday, July 14th, Dr. F. H. Wood and Rosemary visited the International
Institute for Psychical Research, where the former gave a lecture on “Some Features of
the Rosemary Case.” There was a large audience, and Shaw Desmond, who took the
chair, referred to his personal interest in the Rosemary case. It had challenged the
attention of Egyptologists and had so far received no answer to the challenge.
Dr. Wood said that the chief feature of the case was that it had proved the fact of
extended survival by restoring knowledge, which had apparently perished for all time,
of the lost speech of ancient Egypt. Since it began in 1931, a steady stream of Egyptian
had been recorded and translated, not with the help of Egyptologists, but by their
textbooks, which did not show the stupid prejudice some of these men had shown. He
himself had been forced to take up the study of the language a year ago, but not until
over a thousand phrases of xenoglossy had already been recorded. The earlier
translations of his colleague, Mr. Howard Hulme, recorded in their book, Ancient Egypt
Speaks, had been of the utmost importance. They showed how closely the xenoglossy
followed the known outlines of graphic or hieroglyphic Egyptian, which it
supplemented with the hitherto unknown or vocalised Egyptian.
He divided the xenoglossy into three sections. First, there was the unrelated kind,
which was fairly easy to translate, but showed no link with the circumstances of the
sitting; secondly, the responsive and related kind, which consisted of answers in
Egyptian to questions, both prepared and unprepared. A most interesting third type was
the “Bi-lingual” phrase, in which the English translation either preceded or immediately
followed. Language-test 1,001 was of this type. Nona had just said: “You see, Doctor, if
we were to give 100,000 such tests, they would have no more value as evidence than the
1,000 we have just completed.” She then spoke ten phrases, two of which, “ä-héfn” and
“ä-zoónt,” meant “100,000 would have the same value.”
122
Dr. Wood showed on the screen many other phrases of this Bi-lingual type,
including the latest recorded on July 2nd, 1938. He explained that some discussion took
place between Dr. Fodor and himself and Rosemary as to whether a new gramophone
record could be made to supplement that made on May 4th, 1936 and which forms the
basis of a chapter in Ancient Egypt Speaks. Rosemary and Nona were unwilling at first,
but on ﬁnding that Nona was ready to do it, Rosemary gave way. She said: “And now, if
you please, we will put the matter entirely out of our minds.” A moment later she spoke
three short phrases, “zä hämä têm. Deen oót, Kón.” These were translated the next day
and shown the following result: “Cause to tread out the whole thing—this other—That
is all.”
They had kept their mutual promise not
to discuss the new record again until the
experiment was made, and he was glad to
say it had been made that morning at the
Institute with complete success. No one
could tell what was on the record until it
was translated, but Nona had told him, just
after the experiment, that it contained,
among other things, a tribute to the work
of the Institute, a general statement on
psychic development, and of this case in
particular, and, ﬁnally, an expression of
indignation at the difﬁculties they had met
at the hands of Egyptologists. It would be
interesting to see how far this forecast
agreed with the subsequent translations.
At the end of the lecture, Dr. Fodor
relayed the new record on a loud-speaker
at the end of the room, and the audience
listened with close attention to this strange
language from Ancient Egypt.
Several questions after the lecture
showed how keenly the audience had
followed Dr. Wood’s points. Rosemary
herself answered most of them, quietly and
simply.
Dr. Wood concluded by extending an invitation to the British Museum authorities to
test the new record for themselves. He would like them to translate it if they could, and
to compare their translations with his own, which would be made during the next few
weeks.
—~§~—
123
Although a poor recording, part of the original record is available on YouTube thanks is due
to Raymond Donavan who was custodian of Dr. Wood’s papers and recordings in the
1960’s.7
Skeptic’s Dictionary on Xenoglossy (putative phenomenon in which a person is able to
speak a language that he or she could not have acquired by natural means) brings some
more challenging information.8
In later issues, we will give more information about the “Rosemary” controversy, the
disputed Ancient Egyptian, and the surviving gramophone record now at the College of
Psychic Studies.
—~§~—
7
“Rosemary”; The Speech of Ancient Egypt, 18th Dynasty: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6SM4lQ6BVqs
8
Xenoglossy: http://skepdic.com/xenoglossy.html
124
MEURIG MORRIS
Louisa Anne Meurig Morris was reportedly born in 1899 in the south west of England, but
there are few accounts available about her early development, and her work, given her
immense popularity as a well-known trance medium.
However our colleague Lis Warwood writes:
“The research I have done
establishes that she was born Louisa
Ann BAYLIS on 17 November
1899 in Evesham, Worcestershire
(GRO Births Mar Q 1900 Evesham
6c 343) the daughter of Frederick
and Ellen Baylis.
Contrary to certain statements she
made, her father was not a manager
of a market gardens, he was,
throughout most of his working life,
a market garden labourer (see for
example, 1901 & 1911 Census
records). He was also born in
Evesham, Worcestershire, while
Louisa’s mother was born in
Bidford, Warwickshire.
Confirmation that her maiden name
was Baylis is also contained in the
court records. I note that in the
Lincolnshire Echo of 13 April 1932,
it is recorded “. . . the judge
requesting the recall of Mrs Morris,
who was asked what her maiden
name was. She explained that it was
Louisa Ann Baylis, and that she began using her husband’s name of Meurig in 1928,
because there was another medium named Lilian Morris.”
She married William Meurig Morris in 1918 (GRO Marriages Sep Q 1918 Kings
Norton 6d 295). By 1930, William Meurig Morris and Louisa Ann Morris were residing
at 19 Archibald Road, Islington.
Interestingly, after the 1935 South African Tour, Louisa and her husband William
Meurig Morris actually lived for some years at the same address as Laurence Cowen:
In 1935 at 6 Ellerdale Road, Hampstead, in 1936 at 1 Campayne Mansions, Hampstead,
and in 1937 and 1938 at 60 Priory Road, Hampstead. Cowen died 7 October 1942, at
Hampstead General Hospital.
Louisa Ann Morris died age 92 in 1991 (GRO Deaths November 1991 Kensington &
Chelsea 13 1652: Birth Date: 17 Nov 1899).”
125
Meurig’s portrait and the four images of her trance control shown below are taken from
Psychic Science Vol. X No. 3. October 1931 and randomly placed. Quoted below is taken
from Gale Encyclopedia of Occultism & Parapsychology 5th edition:
“Some signs of Morris’s psychic
gifts were noticeable at an early age, but
they were stifled by an orthodox
education. However, she began to
develop rapidly after a first séance with
a direct voice medium in Newton Abbot
in 1922. Within six weeks she went
under control. “Sunshine,” the spirit of a
child, spoke through her, and “Sister
Magdalene,” the spirit of a French nun,
assumed charge as principal trance
control. The prediction came through
that Morris would be trained for the
delivery of teaching by a spirit called
“Power.”
“Under the control of “Power,” the
medium’s soprano voice changed to a
ringing baritone, her mannerisms
became masculine and priestly, and the
teachings disclosed an erudition and
sophisticated philosophy that was far
above the intellectual capacities of the
medium.
“In 1929, Laurence Cowen, well-
known author and playwright, came in contact with Morris. “Power” convinced him of
the truth of survival and filled him with a missionary spirit. Hitherto an agnostic,
Cowen became a convert to Spiritualism, associated himself with Morris, and arranged
a long series of Sunday meetings in the Fortune Theatre in London for the general
public.9
Wide publicity accompanied the sermons for some time in the press. Public
attention was further aroused by the provincial tours Cowen arranged at great personal
sacrifice.”
Nandor Fodor who is noted elsewhere in this issue in connection with the Rosemary
mediumship, most probably wrote the above account of Morris. Note in his book These
Mysterious People,10
published by Rider & Co, London quoted from pages 236-238:
I heard “Power” on many occasions. Once I have been sitting close to Mrs. Morris
on the stage. I was struck by seeing her eye muscles in continual play while her eyes
were shut. You cannot move your eyeballs without contracting and dilating the pupil. I
wondered what did it mean. Could “Power” see through the closed eyelids, so keeping
up with the audience that magnetic touch with which no great orator dispenses? A
paleontologist is able to reconstruct an extinct animal from a single bone. I wondered if
from a close study of Mrs. Morris’ mannerisms, but mostly from the remarkable play of
9
Later the Aeolian Hall, Bond Street, London was also used.
10
These Mysterious People contains twenty-five articles originally written for Northcliffe Newspapers, Ltd.
They first appeared in the Bristol Evening World in April and May 1934.
126
her facial muscles, the general movements of her body and the distention of her lungs a
physiognomist or a physiologist could not draw some deﬁnite conclusions as to the
physical appearance that they suggested “Power” to have had.
Mentally, Mrs. Morris appears to reap a
harvest from “Power’s” visitations. Though
she cannot remember the subject or
substance of “Power’s” address when she
comes out of trance, she receives
unconscious education. In ordinary
conversation, as she admitted to me some
time ago, she may ﬁnd herself uttering
answers which she could not consciously
think of and which apparently proceeded
from the subconscious stratum of her mind.
“Power,” in fact, is foreseeing the day
when it will not be necessary to entrance
her for public speaking. He says that when
the bridge between the physical and the
higher mind would be made, as it
eventually would, all the knowledge which
was uttered through her would become
accessible to her. He (“Power”) would then
become able to use her in a perfectly
normal way.
If this stage will be reached “Power” will have an added difﬁculty in convincing
people of his independent existence. His missionary efforts will stand out even then
undoubted. Why should they be thrust upon an unheeding world?
The question is deeply bound up with the fundamentals of Spiritualism. There is a
living force in the spiritualist movement which ﬁlls its workers with apostolic zeal.
They claim more than a belief in the teachings of the Nazarene. They claim to know
their truth. They take it as a sacred duty to convince the world of their practical
demonstrability. This mighty urge has never been sufficiently dwelt upon by the critics
of Spiritualism. Yet this is the sole secret of its growth and spread. Money there is none
in it, only labour and sacriﬁce. No fortune is made by famous mediums, just a bare
living. And if the best speakers, who have made a special study of their subject for
years, average £1 per lecture, they do quite well. The thing is not done for personal
gain. It is done for a Movement which, they fervently hope, will conquer the world and
make it a better place to live in.
—~§~—
In April 1932 Morris sued the Daily Mail for displaying a poster reading “Trance Medium
Found Out.” Harry Price in his Fifty Years of Psychical Research, published in 1939 by
Longmans, Green and Co under Chapter XII heading, “The Law and the Medium,” pages
229-231 gives a good overview of the case which brings out some significant points of law
– this case held none of the usual hallmarks of the Vagrancy Act – mediumship could be
genuine:
127
A MEDIUM STRIKES BACK
Another cause célèbre which
made history was the action of Mrs.
Louisa Anne Meurig Morris, a
trance medium, who sued the Daily
Mail for alleged libel. In January,
1931, Mrs. Morris began a series of
Sunday evening services at the
Fortune Theatre, London. Her trance
addresses, purporting to be delivered
through ‘Power,’ her ‘spirit control,’
attracted considerable attention. In
reporting these addresses the Daily
Mail had issued a contents bill
bearing the words: ‘Trance Medium
Found Out.’ The alleged libel was in
the wording of this bill, and in an
article recording the proceedings at
the Fortune Theatre.
The Daily Mail pleaded
justiﬁcation and fair comment on a
matter of public interest. Mr.
Norman Birkett, K.C., appeared for
the Daily Mail, and Sergeant
Sullivan, K.C., represented Mrs.
Morris. The case11
was heard before
the late Mr. Justice McCardie and
lasted eleven days, from April 5 to
April 19, 1932. Among the witnesses for the plaintiff were Sir Oliver Lodge and Lady
Conan Doyle.
The Meurig Morris case was remarkable for three things: Mr. Justice McCardie’s
summing up; the medium’s dramatic outburst on the last day of the trial; and the
wording of the jury’s verdict. The Judge ruled that the matters in question were of
public importance on which a defence of fair comment could be based. He asked the
jury to consider whether Mrs. Morris could in fact convey messages from the dead;
whether she was a genuine medium; and whether she honestly believed that she could
do what she claimed. If she were honest, she ought to be vindicated; if she were
dishonest, she ought to be exposed.
During the Judge’s summing-up, he happened to point to Mrs. Morris with
outstretched hand, whereupon she slowly rose and, apparently in trance, said in the
deep voice of ‘Power’: ‘Hearken to my voice, Brother Judge.’ Obviously astonished,
Mr. Justice McCardie ordered her to be removed from the court. When she was
approached the same deep voice said: ‘Do not touch her till I have left the body.’ Mrs.
Morris was carried to an anteroom where she remained unconscious for two hours. The
case was adjourned for ﬁfteen minutes, when the judge resumed. He said: ‘I hope I have
not upset the feelings of anyone unnecessarily, but as a judge I care not for all the
11
See The Times, April 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 1932.
128
incarnate or discarnate spirits in the world . . . though there may be ten thousand million
discarnate spirits around us.’
The jury’s verdict was: ‘We ﬁnd
for the defendants on the plea of fair
comment on a matter of public
interest, but we do not consider that
any allegations of fraud or dishonesty
have been proved.’ Whereupon the
Judge ruled that there must be
judgment for the Daily Mail. Mrs.
Morris appealed and, after a hearing
of four days, the judges (Scrutton,
Lawrence and Greer) dismissed the
appeal. The case was taken to the
House of Lords, where the appeal was
again dismissed.
The lay Press and legal journals
gave great prominence to the case.
The Law Journal12
regarded it as ‘a
notable event, and, quite irrespective
of the verdict, marked a tremendous
advance, not only in spiritualism, but
in toleration. . . .Another curious fact
appearing from the trial and in the
course of it is that the jury might be
expected to ﬁnd that a “discarnate
spirit” might transmit messages
through a medium.’ In the following
issue of the Law Journal,13
in an article ‘Evidence and Psychic Phenomena,’ it is stated
that the jury’s ﬁndings in the Morris case were being hotly discussed in legal circles as
to whether the verdict was legally sound. The article, which is entirely sympathetic to
Mrs. Morris, emphasizes ‘the astonishing interruption of the summing-up.’ The journal
continues: ‘We ﬁnd it frankly incredible that any litigant, if conscious, would have the
effrontery to attempt a “stunt” of that sort at such a moment. Apart from the gross
contempt of court which would be involved, it would be such singularly bad tactics. As
it was, who can say what inﬂuence it had in persuading the jury to a verdict, which,
whether technically correct or not, most people will probably think achieved substantial
justice?’
—~§~—
12
April 23, I932.
13
April 30, I932.
129
Harry Price notes, “The case was taken to the House of Lords, where the appeal was again
dismissed” the appeal hearing started on Tuesday February 7th 1933 the alleged libel was as
noted contained in a bill issued by the Daily Mail on January 26th 1931. The appeal was
dismissed with costs on Monday February 20th.14
The House of Lords appeal is covered in
The Two Worlds February 17th & 24th 1933; any reader wishing a copy in PDF please
contact the editor.
As a point of interest a short note appeared in The Two World, July 16th 1932 page 5:
MEURIG MORRIS APPEAL
J. ARTHUR FINDLAY
ONLY ONE TO OPPOSE
The Defence Committee which
met on Monday at the Fortune
Theatre decided to take the
Meurig Morris case to the House
of Lords. This meeting was
attended by several prominent
Spiritualists who were all agreed
on this course, with the exception
of J. Arthur Findlay, who opposed
it.
He pointed out, that if the
House of Lords reversed the
decision of the last Court of
Appeal, it would be almost
impossible even for Spiritualists
to publish the exposure of
fraudulent mediums.
Following Mr. Findlay’s
speech, Col. F. A. Wilson, who
was a member of the British
College, rose to support the
resolution taking the appeal to the
House of Lords. In concluding his
speech, he said, “We must fight
for the truth, ﬁght for it always. Truth will conquer in the end.” Just as he had said
these Words, he slipped back into his chair in a state of collapse and died.
14
The Two Worlds February 24 1933: “THE LAW JOURNAL COMMENTS. THE libel suit of Mrs. Meurig
Morris is the subject of some comments in the current issue of the Law journal. The newspaper observes:—
“The House of Lords are engaged in this difﬁcult case on innuendoes in a libel action, and though it would
be improper to express any opinion on the main issue, it is of interest to see how the case has got so far. . . . It
is, of course, for the Judge to say whether the words complained of are capable of defamatory meaning. If he
says they are, it was for the jury to decide whether on the occasion when they were used, they bore it. On the
report before us, the verdict of the jury did not seem to give a clear answer to this question which it was their
function and duty to return. It is certainly a nice point whether ‘Trance Medium Found Out’ means ‘her
methods are revealed,’ or ‘her methods are revealed and shown to be dishonest.’”
James Arthur Findlay 1883 - 1964
130
An announcement was made in The Two Worlds, February 17th 1933 by Laurence Cowen:
FORTUNE THEATRE SERVICES.
ANNOUNCEMENT OF TEMPORARY SUSPENSION.
On Sunday evening last (the 12th inst.)
Mr. Laurence Cowen, who presided as usual,
made an important announcement in respect
of these services, now in the third year of
their continuous operation.
After reading the Lesson, Mr. Cowen
said:
“This theatre, which I built a few years
ago, has just been sold, and my association
with it ceases from the end of this month.
This necessarily means the early temporary
discontinuance of the Sunday services, but it
will only be temporary. I hand it over to the
new proprietor as from the end of this
month, so the ﬁnal service in the Fortune
Theatre will take place on Sunday, the 26th
instant.
“This enforced transition provides the much-denied opportunity for us to give effect
to ‘Power’s’ promise to greatly develop our work and to provide a Centre from which
his teaching and campaign can be more efficiently and more appropriately carried out
than in a building generally devoted to such very opposite purposes.
“Matters are already well forward for the provision of ‘Power’s' new home—a
temple which shall be worthy of his lofty purpose and provide exceptional opportunities
to his followers, here and throughout the world, to meet, co-operate, and co-ordinate in
promoting that Universal Brotherhood among men, irrespective of race, colour, and
creed, which represents his mission to our world.”
Subsequently from October 22nd 1933 the meetings were taken at the Aeolian Hall, Bond
Street, London, which became the future venue for the meetings. Meurig’s long
uninterrupted series of meetings at the Fortune Theatre had ended in March. Below is
another interview by James Leigh which sums up the Meurig Morris story so far, taken from
The Two Worlds September 22nd 1933 page 733:
THE STORY OF “POWER” AND HIS MEDIUM
THE announcement that Mrs. Meurig Morris is to resume her propaganda work in new
headquarters situated in London is both welcome and surprising: welcome in so far as
her many followers will appreciate this further opportunity of hearing her discourse
under the influence of her famous control, and surprising in the form that her new
activities will take.
While one does not wish to make invidious comparisons, the fact is, however,
obvious that during the past few years Mrs. Meurig Morris and her colleague have done
more to spread the religious aspect of Spiritualism than any other propagandists. Their
131
work, while sufficiently sensational to be attractive, has yet displayed no evidence of
shallow-mindedness, and so far from repeating themselves, time and again Mrs. Morris’
inspirers have struck out into new ﬁelds of inquiry.
For days she was the centre of public interest. She takes her place alongside Emma
Hardinge Britten, J. J. Morse, and other notable Spiritualist speakers as one whose
addresses were sufficiently striking to merit recognition in the national press.
The circumstances attending the production of the Columbia gramophone record of
“Power’s” voice and message were such as to compel widespread attention, and the
record itself has circulated among many hundreds of homes.
Her remarkable “Movietone” picture created another sensation—but the sensation
was incidental, the message being broadcast in cinemas throughout the country. The
historic libel action and the world-wide comment which follow in its wake were
responsible again for turning men’s minds to the claims of mediumship, and they were
able to perceive from evidence offered in court that Spiritualism was a matter-of-fact
subject.
I have vivid recollections of the interview I had last year with “Power”—the first, I
believe, that he has given. My request was referred to the guides of the medium, and in
that way I was told duly reached “Power,” who consented to meet me. Accordingly, one
evening I was present at a small séance which commenced with the singing of a hymn,
during which the features of the fair young medium became transformed before our
eyes. Her face seemed to stiffen and become elongated; her hands impulsively sought
the lapels of her dress. Then in clear, ringing tones the voice of “Power” broke the
stillness of the room announcing that he was ready to answer questions. There followed
a dramatic interview.
Among other things, the personality known as “Power” announced that he had been
in touch with his medium since her early childhood, that he was but one member of a
group known as the “Power Circle,” and that he spoke as the voice not of one, but of
many. It was the purpose of that Circle to bring to the earth a realisation of the
universality of all religions, and a recognition of the “great Christ Spirit which has
manifested since the world began.”
They were interested also in securing the religious freedom for those who were
ﬁghting for the recognition of the truth of survival. In this respect they expressed
scepticism as to the result of the impending appeal arising out of the libel action which
had been instituted against the Daily Mail. “Power” said: “Although you suffer, you
will ﬁnd that the victory regarding religious freedom will ultimately be yours, for, as I
have stated this trial which has taken place stands as a landmark in the history of your
religion. You are taking this case, as I suggest, to the highest court your country can
offer. You will be faced by other powers, other judges and you will again suffer—but it
must be so.”
When at the close of the interview I asked “Power” what, supposing he were to
communicate with the earth for the ﬁnal time to-morrow, his last message to the world
would be, his reply was impressive by its simplicity . . . “Seek ye ﬁrst the kingdom of
Heaven.”
Mrs. Meurig Morris gives the impression of being very sincere and conscientious
regarding her work. She is, in fact, exceedingly sensitive, and I believe she ﬁnds the
132
constant publicity of her vocation a somewhat painful and arduous experience. She
informed me she has never read “quite through” any book or treatise on Spiritualism or
Psychical Research.
She is fond of sitting for meditation and has had, in this state, some unusual psychic
experiences, which may some day be elucidated for the beneﬁt of others. In this
condition she appears to inherit an extended range of consciousness, and sometimes she
has been inﬂuenced to speak in a foreign language. A Buddhist priest who was present
at one of her séances caused surprise by bending his head and joining with her as she
chanted in a peculiar tone and in a foreign tongue, and he subsequently stated that the
two had recited an ancient Thibetan chant used by the holy ones before an important
ceremony.
Her sponsor Mr. Laurence Cowen, is as different from his colleague as it is possible
to conceive. He appears as greatly concerned about the mundane as she is about the
spiritual. His is the enterprising spirit whose co-operation has made it possible for her
work to receive such widespread recognition. Indeed it is his forceful personality which
maintains an equilibrium.
—~§~—
Below makes further comment to the above James Leigh article. Taken from The Two
Worlds, February 24th 1933:
THE RESULT FORESHADOWED.
Speaking last Sunday night at the Fortune Theatre, “Power” dealt with the case, and
foreshadowed the judgment on the appeal, which was not given until Monday. He
declared, “We shall fail, but what may seem failure from a material point of view, is
actually success to those on higher planes.”
Eight months ago—in July, l932—“Power” predicted the result in an exclusive
interview to THE TWO WORLDS. Then he said to our Special Correspondent, Mr.
James Leigh: “Many express disappointment at the result of the trial. But tremendous
interest has been awakened. There is a widespread sympathy because the public see that
you have not been given justice, and that you are standing by principles that you
believe, and will not be moved by material powers and prejudices. You are going
forward. You are taking this case, as I suggested, to the highest court your country can
give you. You will be faced by other powers, other judges, and you will again suffer—
but it must be so.”
“Power" said that although the case might fail, it would stand as a land-mark in the
history of Spiritualism. “The victory regarding religious freedom will be eventually be
yours,” he added. “There will indeed be a change in due time—and that time will not be
long—of the law which does not give you the freedom and protection that you wish.”
—~§~—
Endnote:
To tie up two loose ends; James Leigh made reference to “The circumstances attending the
production of the Columbia gramophone record of “Power’s” voice …” and “Her
remarkable “Movietone” picture created another sensation …” Below is taken from Nandor
Fodor These Mysterious People, quoted from pages 235-236:
133
… The strange incident which occurred at the British Movietone Company when a
talking ﬁlm was made of “Power’s” oratory was declared by him a well-thought-out
demonstration.
The microphones were seen by seventy people high up in the air held up by new
half-inch ropes. A rope suddenly snapped and a terrific crash startled all present. Within
half an inch of Mrs. Morris’ face the microphone swept across the space and went
swaying to and fro. A foreman rushed up and dragged the rope aside to keep it out of
the sight of the camera. The camera man never stopped. Nor did Mrs. Morris. In spite of
the obvious danger to her life she never stirred and went on undisturbed with her trance
speech.
According to expert opinion the voice registering must have been a failure. Yet it
was found that the accident had not the least inﬂuence. The record was perfect.
According to “Power” the rope was supernormally severed so as to prove, by the
medium’s demeanour, that she was indeed in trance, as no human being could have
consciously exhibited such self-possession as she did when the accident occurred.
The Movietone recording can be seen on YouTube:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nxjewi39vzU
This is also available courtesy of SpiritualismLink with additional footage of Lawrence
Cowen, post séance observations but unfortunately it is cut short:
http://www.spiritualismlink.com/t1195-mrs-meurig-morris-and-her-control-power
Fodor continues:
A still more amazing incident, a veritable technical miracle occurred at the Columbia
Gramophone Company’s studio in the course of recording “Power’s” voice. According
to C. W. Nixon’s (of the Columbia Gramophone Company) publicly rendered account,
an incident occurred at the very commencement of the operation which, by all the rules,
should have soiled the first side of the record. Mr. Ernest Oaten, President of the
International Spiritualist Federation, was in the chair, and being unaware that the start
was to be made without the appearance of the usual red light, he told Mrs. Morris as she
stood up: “Wait for the signal.” These words were picked up by the microphone and
were heard by the engineer in the recording-room after the apparatus had been started. It
was believed that they must be on the record.
Later, when the second side of the record was to be made, there was confusion in
starting. Toward the end, as if to make technical failure a certainty, Mrs. Morris turned
and walked several paces away from the microphone. .
A week before the record was ready for reproduction Cowen rang up Nixon and told
him that “Power” asserts that notwithstanding the technical mistakes the record would
be a success, that Mr. Oaten’s words would not be reproduced and that the timing and
volume of the voice would not be spoiled by the later accidents. This statement was so
extraordinary and appeared to be so preposterous that Nixon had it taken down word by
word, and sent it in a sealed envelope to Mr. Oaten in Manchester with the request that
he would keep it unopened until the record was ready and the truth or otherwise of the
prediction could be tested. The record was played in the Fortune Theatre on April 25th,
1931. It was perfect. The letter was opened. The prediction was found to be true in
every detail.
—~§~—
134
Today the Fortune Theatre is still in operation, an
interesting history can be found with further
information relating to Laurence Cowen at:
http://www.arthurlloyd.co.uk/Fortune.htm Within its history
pages is a poster advertising Meurig Morris’ ‘Sunday
Spiritualist Services’. Matthew Lloyd has kindly given
Psypioneer permission to reproduce the image as
shown.
Though there is little available information on the next
few months, but shortly after the events covered in
this article Meurig entered into a religious retreat for
rest and development, under the work of the “Power”
group. Cowen procured a stately mansion in
Hampstead as headquarters for the “School of
Mezzantni” which is the name under which the
“Power” group would function in the future.
It was noted elsewhere in this article:
“Power,” in fact, is foreseeing the day when it will not
be necessary to entrance her for public speaking. He says that when the bridge between
the physical and the higher mind would be made, as it eventually would, all the
knowledge which was uttered through her would become accessible to her. “He
(“Power”) would then become able to use her in a perfectly normal way”
It was during this period of retreat and the founding of the school that Meurig Morris was
enabled to deliver her message in a condition of normality as opposed to trance. Hampstead
was officially opened in May 1935, but remained unoccupied for some time until Morris
and Cowen toured, Egypt, Palestine and
South Africa. It can be noted in LIGHT
March 7th 1940 the “School of
Mezzantni” was operational but at a
different address.
These later developments will be covered in a future Psypioneer.
Paul J. Gaunt.
135
THE SPIRITUAL ATHENAEUM
Note by LP. The Athenaeum was a significant attempt
at organisation, though short lived. In contrast another
medium Stainton Moses, in 1884 started a body (the
LSA) which persisted, perhaps because it did not
depend on his own mediumship, nor did he derive
income from it. The account below is taken from the
second series of D.D. Home’s Incidents in my life,
1872, p.140 ff. Marc Demarest of the Chasing Down
Emma blog, has made a special study of the council of
the Athenaeum.
In the latter part of 1866, a number of gentlemen
interested in spiritualism decided upon a formation of a
limited society, relating to which the following circular
was printed:
“MANY spiritualists and friends of spiritualism,
considering that a place in London is greatly needed
where they may frequently meet, have resolved to
establish a society under the name of The Spiritual Athenaeum, at No. 22, Sloane Street,
Knightsbridge. At present, many persons who have been largely gifted with ‘spiritual gifts’
are without the power to make them known for the general good; while it is certain that
several distinguished foreigners, thus gifted, have visited and left London without making
the acquaintance of a single spiritualist.
The society proposes to meet the difficulties that impede the progress of spiritualism, by the
establishment to which they draw your attention, where subscribers will have the advantage
of intercourse with mediums who may either be found, or who visit England from America,
France, and other countries; where books and periodical works in various languages may be
received and circulated; where occasional lectures shall be given (written papers being
sometimes printed, perhaps quarterly, as *Transactions; where a system of useful
correspondence may be carried out; where ‘experiences’ may be communicated and
recorded; where, in brief, there shall be a rallying point for spiritualists and their friends for
the interchange of information and for consultation; and where ‘sittings,’ under judicious
arrangements, shall be regularly held with Mr. Home and other mediums.
“It is proposed to appoint Mr. D. D. Home as resident Secretary at the Institution. He will
act under the guidance and direction of a council and an executive committee, one of whom
will act as honorary treasurer.
“We believe that Mr. Home’s mediumship (free of all conflicting influences) may thus be
made wider and more practical in its beneficial effects. We believe, also, that other mediums
may be thus enabled essentially to elucidate and advance spiritualism, and that, hence,
nations into the subject may lead to convictions of its truth.
“It will be a leading duty of the executive committee, acting with the council, to make such
arrangements as shall secure facilities for healthy, useful, and instructive communion to
those who seek, as well as those who are willing to give, information ‘concerning spiritual
gifts;’ while promoting social intercourse, aiming at loftier and holier objects, checking the
spread of materialism, upholding the truths and extending the influence of Christianity, and
136
bringing closer the bonds of peace and love among mankind, inculcating by another power
acting in accordance with Holy Writ, and co-operating with the Christian teacher duty to
God and to our neighbour.
“We therefore ask you to give effect to our plan, by agreeing to subscribe £5. 5s [i.e. five
guineas LP] annually, so long as it shall be satisfactory to you to do so, in order to establish
the Spiritual Athenaeum. No other responsibility of any kind will be incurred by
subscribers. We wish to limit the number of subscribers to one hundred, but we believe that
eighty will be sufficient to meet all requirements such as rent of rooms, the supply of a
library, moderate refreshments at conversazioni, and the expenses of the secretary.
“The following gentlemen have consented to act as the council; those who are thus indicated
(*) forming the executive committee. It will be observed that several of the members are
practical men of business, and therefore, that a wise superintendence will be exercised over
the proceedings of the society. With the council several ladies of position and influence will
be associated.
“PRESENT LIST OF COUNCIL.
(To which additions will be made.)
G. Brocklebank, Esq., Lombard Street, and Greenwich.
Dr. Elliotson, Davies Street, Berkeley Square.
Capt. Drayson, R.A., Woolwich.15
Count P. de Gendre, 68, Westbourne Terrace,
H. G. Gibson, Esq., 33, Mark Lane, and Mecklenburg Square.
John Hampden Gledstanes, Esq., London and Paris.
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D., Malvern.
*S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A., Barrister-at-Law, 8, Essex
Villas, Kensington.
Henry T. Humphreys, Esq., 1, Clifford's Inn.
*H. G. Jencken, Esq., (Honorary Treasurer), Barrister- at-Law, Kilmorey House, Norwood.
Ion Perdicaris, Esq., Gloucester Terrace, Campden Hill.
*H. Rudall, Esq., 9, Great Tower Street, and the Grove, Camberwell.
*H. W. Spratt, Esq., Walbrook Buildings, and South
Villas, Greenwich.
*E. C. Sterling, Esq., 104, Sloane Street.
The Rev. J. G. Wood, M.A., Belvedere, Kent.
22, Sloane Street, Knightsbridge.
[End of circular- LP)
During the perfecting of arrangements connected with the “Spiritual Athenaeum,” some of
the members of the council met, from time to time, in Sloane Street, and at times some
interesting manifestations occurred. Although each of these possessed its special interest for
them who witnessed it, few of them call for any notice. I shall however briefly relate the
circumstances connected with one which occurred at a preliminary meeting of the council.
On this occasion Mr. S. C. Hall, Mr. Jencken, Mr. Perdicaris, and Mr. Humphreys, with
myself, had met, and, after some time, while they were discussing matters of business, I saw
a spirit who gave me her name, and said she was the daughter of Dr. Robert Chambers. Mr.
S. C. Hall, who was acquainted with the family, did not believe that Dr. Robert Chambers
15
Is this the future General Drayson, who assisted Conan Doyle in his early Spiritualist investigations? LP.
137
had had a daughter of that name. I said that we might be certain that he had, and as I said so
three raps sounded on the floor.
As the object of communication was that Mr. Hall should write to Dr. R. Chambers
concerning certain matters, he undertook to do so, though rather unwillingly, and it was not
till several weeks later that he ascertained that the name was correct. Even then Dr. R.
Chambers was not communicated with, and at a seance at Mr. S. C. Hall’s, at Essex Villas,
Campden Hill, this spirit came to the circle and expressed to me her regret that Mr. S. C.
Hall had not written to her father as requested. She detailed the fresh position of affairs with
respect to what she desired to have done, and was accompanied by the spirit of a sister who
had left earth at an early age, and gave the words “Pa, love.” Dr. Robert Chambers was
written to, and in reply wrote:
“The whole of the communications accord with actual facts. The words, ‘Pa, love,’ were the
last words she pronounced in life.” In a letter to myself, written also about this time, Dr. R.
Chambers says, after relating an event which confirmed a message sent him, “So you see
Mary was right about the imminence of that step, of which I knew nothing.”
The formal opening of the Spiritual Athenaeum took place on the 4th January, 1867, and the
following notice concerning it appeared in “The Spiritual Magazine”:
OPENING OF THE SPIRITUAL ATHENAEUM.
The opening meeting of the Spiritual Athenaeum took place on Friday evening, January 4.
Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., opened the meeting by an excellent introductory address.
A brief paper by Dr. Gully was read; and Mr. D. D. Home Lyon lectured on, and described
‘Spiritual Drawings’ a number of which, by various persons, were laid on the tables. The
remainder of the evening was occupied by conversation concerning the prospects and
progress of spiritualism. The meeting was well attended, and highly gratifying to all who
took part in it.16
One result of the establishment of the Spiritual Athenaeum was to attract the attention of
spiritualists in various parts of the kingdom, and I received letters from several quarters
relating the progress which spiritualism was making, and giving accounts of numbers of
circles organised for the purpose of investigating the subject.
My own loss of health in 1867, together with other circumstances, fully explained in
connection with the Lyon lawsuit, led to the Athenaeum being closed.
—~§~—
16
Vivienne Roberts art curator of the College of Psychic Studies, comments. “Georgiana Houghton had two
works on the table and so this counts as her first public show. She also ended up giving the actual talk on spirit
drawings at Home’s invitation. I think he realised he wouldn’t do it justice with such as expert in the room.
Others exhibiting could have included Mrs Honywood, David Duguid, Mrs French, Mrs Acworth, Mr
Marshal, Mrs Wilkinson and Anna Howitt. There will be new information about these at the College
exhibition from August 14-20 2016.” https://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/events/view/id/554
138
F W H Myers
Human Personality
And Its Survival of Bodily Death
Introductory Note: Paul Gaunt, wearing another hat, is the Historian for the Spiritualists’
National Union, UK and the Editor of the SNU’s online historical journal The Pioneer –
which alternates month and month about with Psypioneer. The June 2016 issue contained a
very good article commemorating the centenary of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s public
acceptance of Spiritualism. In that article, Paul used a gravure portrait of Sir Arthur which I
had located about 20 or more years ago now in a publication The World’s Great Books.17
ACD’s entry was for the Sherlock Holmes canon; and with no mentions whatsoever of his
other literary works or his involvement in Spiritualism. But, because Paul had not had the
information to provide a credit for the source of the portrait, I revisited The World’s Great
Books to get the information for him.
Whilst there, I looked up some of the other names of people involved in psychical history:
e.g. Sir Oliver Lodge – who was there for his scientific works, Camille Flammarion – for
Urania18
and Emanuel Swedenborg – for Heaven & Hell.19
And F W H Myers was there,
not for his essays and poetry but for his production of Human Personality and its Survival of
Bodily Death. I thought our readers might appreciate the following synopsis of that “great
book”.
Garth Willey
A Famous Enquiry into Psychical Phenomena
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS
HUMAN PERSONALITY AND ITS
SURVIVAL OF BODILY DEATH
Outlined by J. A. Penman
THE works of Frederick [sic – Frederic] W. H. Myers may be divided into two categories,
his literary publications and his scientific investigations of the phenomena of hypnotism,
apparition and kindred subjects. As a poet he possessed no small gift, his best works being
St. Paul (1867), The Renewal of Youth (1882), and Fragments of Prose and Poetry,
posthumously published. Three volumes of his essays have been collected – Essays
Classical, and Essays Modern (1883), and Science and Future Life (1893). His lifework,
however, was the foundation of the Society for Psychical Research, and his scientific
observation of alleged occult occurrences. The results of his investigations are recorded in
Phantasms of the Living, the joint work of Myers, Podman [sic - Podmore] and Gurney, and
17
The World’s Great Books, Arthur Mee & J A Hammerton – “offers the pith and marrow of many famous
books in English literature, ancient classics and foreign masterpieces in [extremely] condensed versions.” 4043
pages in 7 Volumes, 1926-1927.
18
Urania, Estes and Lauriat Publishers, Boston, 1890, translation by Augusta Rice Stetson of Uranie, 1889.
(And not to be confused with The Urantia Book, 1955)
19
Heaven and its Wonders and Hell From Things Heard and Seen, 1758
139
in Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death, posthumously published in two
volumes in 1903. An abridged and revised edition in one volume is published by Longmans.
I – The Great Question
THE most momentous question man has to ask himself is whether his personality involves
any element which can survive the decease and decay of the body. It is around this problem
that man’s gravest fears as well as his stimulating hopes have centred. Yet men have never
yet sought to apply the scientific method to the problem of human destiny, although they
have found that Science has led to so much valid discovery and indisputable truth in other
forms of knowledge.
In most civilized countries there has been for the past two thousand years a distinct, tacit
belief that human survival has been proved by certain obscure phenomena recorded to have
been observed in Palestine. But there has been no serious attempt to correlate that belief
with scientific discovery and observation, for men have kept their convictions relative to
this subject in a sealed mental compartment consecrated to religion or superstition, but not
to experiment.
The object then of this work is to endeavour to break down that artificial wall of
demarcation which has thus far excluded from scientific treatment the problems which stand
in most need of all the aids to discovery which such treatment can afford.
Following upon the triumph of Christianity, the Christian Church became for Europe the
accredited guardian of all phenomena bearing upon the unseen world. But it was inevitable
that the enquiry should become wider and broader, and in the process of broadening
witchcraft, Swedenborgianism, Mesmerism, Spiritism all play their part as precursors. The
belief in witchcraft passed as human ignorance and folly, though to-day we feel that
witchcraft was based upon phenomena that were not understood, phenomena such as
hysteria, which when scientifically approached along the lines of psychology, may yield us
valuable information.
In the movement headed by Mesmer ‘suggestion’ – though not under that name – came into
prominence, but it was not till our generation that medical science took up the study of
hypnotism in which every well-attested fact of witchcraft or of mesmerism finds, if not its
explanation, at least its parallel, thus becoming a recognized and advancing method of
relieving human ills.
It was to Emmanuel Swedenborg first that the unseen world appeared before all things as a
realm of law, a region not of mere emotional vagueness but of definite progress according to
definite relations of cause and effect. Founded upon many facts of the supernormal, modem
spiritualism or spiritism has erected its edifice, a sectarian cult detracting from what ought
to be a branch of scientific enquiry rather than a sectarian creed.
The enquiry, then, with which we are faced, must be an enquiry resting primarily, as all
scientific enquiries in the stricter sense must now rest, upon objective facts actually
observable, upon experiments which we can repeat to-day, and which we may hope to carry
farther to-morrow.
It must be based on the presupposition that if a spiritual world exists, and if that world has at
any epoch been manifest or even discoverable, then it ought to be manifest or discoverable
now.
140
II – Disintegration of Personality
EACH man is regarded as at once unitary and also almost infinitely composite. The
multiplex organism inherited from earthly ancestors is ruled and unified by a soul or spirit
which has originated in a spiritual environment, a spirit which, even while embodied,
subsists in that environment and which will still subsist therein after the body’s decay.
Man has a consciousness the best line of proof for which probably lies in the memory of
past acts, when we arrive at the conclusion that even the hypnotised subject may be
conscious.
Now personality may be divided or duplicated and accordingly we must consider the
possibility of any given arrangement or division of the total mass of consciousness which
exists within us.
There occur, frequently, changes in the conscious life of individuals, changes which are
generally noxious to the physical organism. They seem to be separate from the primary
stream of conscious purposive life, and not infrequently are steps on the road to the breaking
up of personality and mental overthrow.
The process may begin with something which is to the psychical organism no more than a
corn or boil is to the physical. In consequence of some suggestion from without, or of some
inherited tendency, a small group of psychical units set up a process of exaggerated growth
which shuts them off from free and healthy interchange with the rest of the personality. The
result may be an uncontrolled, unmodified group of thoughts or actions developing in
various ways. It may become a fixed, insistent idea inducing hysterical convulsions, or it
may draw so many psychical elements to its centre that it forms a kind of secondary
personality co-existing secretly with the primary one.
Usually, these fixed ideas are at the outset but extravagant fancies – as that one is made of
glass or the like – and hardly one of us is wholly free from tendencies to certain types of
thoughts or emotions for which we cannot summon any adequate check. Some haunting
troubles have their origin in our childhood, but for some we must go even farther back. The
fear of darkness, the fear of solitude, the fear of thunderstorms speak of primitive
helplessness, and to these and such instinctive feelings a morbid development is easily
given.
These fixed ideas may readily pass into hysteria in which a series of phantom copies of real
maladies of the nervous system may occur or they may be determined by no physiological
mechanism and then be some form of self-suggestion. What is only a silly fancy seems in
some cases to produce an effect which is objective, measurable and capable of causing
serious disablement. This may be a restriction of the conscious field wherein, by a fixed
distraction, the subject may be incapable of attaching certain sensations to his personality,
although no physiological cause can be attributed.
For example, a hysteric may actually lose sensation in one arm, but on being told by a
doctor that there is a caterpillar on that arm the reinforcement of attention thus generated
may bring back the sensibility. In these and similar cases hysteria is a dissolutive process
where the elements of personality isolated.
Hysteria is undoubtedly a disease, but it is by no means an indication of initial mental
weakness, and it would be a great mistake to suppose that all psychical disturbances are due
to vanity, to anger, to terror, to sexual passion. Danger lies before us if we fix our
141
conception of human character too low. We must not form the idea that there is nothing
before us but a study of decay. It is his steady advance his occasional regression which
makes the chief concern of man. Martyrs, crusaders, nihilists, enthusiasts of any kind who
are swayed by impulses largely below the threshold of ordinary consciousness, these may
bring to bear on human affairs a force more concentrated and at higher tension than
deliberate reason can generate. They are virtually carrying out self-suggestions which have
acquired the permanence of fixed ideas. These fixed ideas, however, are not so isolated as
those of true hysterics.
Sometimes a secondary state intervenes, a kind of bewilderment overrunning the whole
personality. This state ranges from sleep-wakings [maybe ‘walkings] of all kinds and
includes all stages of alternation of personality, from brief somnambulism up to permanent
and thorough changes of personality.
The study of the phenomena of dreams is perhaps the best starting-point for the study of
these secondary states. In many cases our dream contains a conversation in which we await
with eagerness and hear with surprise the remarks of our interlocutor who must, of course,
all the time represent only another segment of ourselves. This in waking life may dominate
a being's mentality to such an extent that he is a changed person where there is marked
severance between the new and the old self.
There are many recorded cases of these duplications of personality in which a person may
believe himself to be other than he is and actually act the part completely. Cases of alleged
‘possession’ or ‘spirit control’ may come under this head. They are really cases of
duplicated personality in which suggestion has made its impression upon a hysterical type of
mind.
We see now that personality is of complex structure, with separable elements which may be
dissected and dissociated. Sometimes hysteria brings to light acquisitions as well as losses
of faculty – an integration in place of a disintegration.
III – The Normal and the Genius
GENIUS may be regarded as a power of utilising a wider range than other men can utilise of
faculties in some degree innate in all. The word ‘normal’ is ordinarily used to imply either
conformity to a standard, or a position as an average between two extremes. But there occur
instances in the life of everyone of us when a maximum of faculty is manifested, when we
do what we have never before even supposed ourselves able to do; a man, we say, outdoes
himself in a great emergency, as, for example, when he rescues his children from a burning
house, exercising a strength and agility which seemed beyond his own. The action is an
emergence of hidden faculty taking command of the man and guiding his action at the
moment when his being is deeply stirred.
Such an instance may serve as an illustration of a phenomenon which is constantly
occurring on a small scale in the inner life of each of us.
Sometimes there is a rush upwards as of a subaqueous spring, an inspiration flashes into the
mind for which our conscious effort has not prepared us. This so-called inspiration may in
itself be trivial or worthless, but it is the initial stage of a phenomenon to which, when
certain rare attributes are also present, the name of genius will be naturally given.
As an illustration of the workings of genius we may consider those cases of ‘arithmetical
prodigy,’ generally a boy of tender years capable of performing in his head, and almost
142
instantaneously, problems for which ordinary workers would require pencil and paper and a
much longer time. Generally this power shows itself in early years and tends to weaken in
later years. We may also consider the records left by eminent men as to the element of
subconscious mentation which was involved in their best work. For example, one
psychologist of repute has declared that he has sometimes understood a geometrical
demonstration made to him a year previously without ever having directed his attention to it.
The conception implanted in his brain seemed to have ripened spontaneously, bringing
about a novel grasp of the proof.
Observation then of many such declarations shows us that a very brief and shallow
submergence beneath the conscious level is often enough to infuse fresh vigour into trains
of thought. In some cases of deep and fruitful abstraction we see a slight approach to
duplication of personality. John Stuart Mill, intent on his Principles of Logic, as he
threaded the crowds of Leadenhall Street, recalls certain morbid cases of hysterical
distraction – only that with Mill the process was an integrative one and not a dissolutive one
– a gain and not a loss of power over the organism. Again, in some of these cases, we see
the man of genius achieving spontaneously and unawares much the same result as that
which is achieved for the hypnotic subject by deliberate artifice. He is in fact co-ordinating
the working and the sleeping phases of his existence.
These slight imperfect instances seem to point in a more useful direction than do some of
the facts collected by most anthropologists who hold that genius is a kind of nervous
malady, a disturbance of mental balance akin to criminality or even madness. Rather, the
man of genius is on the whole the completed type of humanity, and in a man such as
Socrates we see the ideal unification of human powers. Perhaps the promptings of the
Demon of Socrates are the manifestations of the subliminal self of a man of genius,
conveying to that great philosopher precisely the precognitive information which is the
privilege of the sensitive man of to-day.
We have, of course, assumed in man a soul which can draw strength and grace from a
spiritual universe. That which religions have claimed for their saints - and what is sanctity
but the genius of the ethical realm? –psychology must claim for every form of spiritual
indrawing, every form of spiritual response. That indrawing is healthy and full of joy and
shows us that genius is akin to the child and not to the madman.
Men of genius, then, are no eccentrics nor degenerates; they have made for us the sanest and
most fruitful experiment yet made by man; they have endeavoured to exalt the human race
in a way in which it can be exalted. They have drawn on forces which exist and on a Soul
which answers; they have dwelt on those things ‘by dwelling on which it is,’ as Plato has it:
‘that even God is divine.’
IV – Sleep and Hypnotism
SLEEP is a change of personality which is borne in on everyone's notice, not as a morbid
curiosity, but as an essential part of life. It is difficult to define sleep for its definition is
recognized as a crux of philosophy. Nor can we be content to deal with it in a purely
negative aspect, dwelling upon the mere absence of working faculties. We must treat sleep
positively as far as we can, as a definite phase of our personality, co-ordinate with the
working phase.
The break of consciousness in sleep is associated in some way with a powerful
physiological change and a few moments of sleep will sometimes bring a renovation which
hours of lying down in darkness and silence will not yield. There must be therefore, in sleep,
an increased control over organic functions at the foundation of bodily life.
143
Sometimes, however, we find that sleep is capable of strange developments, night
sometimes outdoing the most complex achievements of day. The somnambulist, like the
man of genius, brings into play resources which are beyond ordinary reach. Sometimes a
dream may be preserved in permanent results as for example, in cases where a dream has
led to 'conversion' or marked religious change, or where it has been the starting point of an
‘insistent idea’ or of a fit of actual insanity. M. Taine relates how a gendarme, impressed by
an execution at which he had assisted, dreamt that he himself was to be executed and was
afterwards so influenced by the dream that he attempted suicide. Thus it would seem that
the dreaming self may undergo sensory and emotional experiences apparently more intense
than those of vigilance, and may produce thereby lasting effects upon the waking body and
mind.
It is also possible, from observed data – such as the solutions of difficult problems in sleep –
to conclude that not only memory but power of inference and argument may be intensified
in sleep.
We are also conscious that in sleeping states the sleeping spirit is capable of perception of
distant scenes, of telepathic communications with distant persons, or even with spirits
unencumbered by the flesh. Here again, then, the inference of the phenomena of sleep
would point to the fact that the waking personality is adapted to the needs of earthly life; the
personality of sleep maintains the fundamental connexions between the organism and the
spiritual world by supplying it with spiritual energy during sleep and itself develops by the
exercise of its own spiritual faculties.
Closely connected with sleep is the hypnotic trance, which, however, may be roughly
characterised as self-suggestion. Such suggestion, as a systematic appeal to the deeper
subconscious powers in man, must be fitted on to the whole serious life of man. There must
needs be some 'scheme of self-suggestion –some general theory which can give the
individual a basis for his appeal, whether he may regard the appeal as directed to an
intelligence outside himself or to his own inherent faculties and informing soul.
Schemes of self-suggestion have been effective in all the superstition and all the religion of
man. Each form of supernatural belief has been utilised in securing the blessing of relief
from physical pain. Charms, inert objects, meaningless gestures and words have been
employed for the cure of disease. We know how long some forms of primitive belief
persisted in medicine, as, for example, the cure of some disease by some object bearing
some resemblance to its name or symptoms.
Even where persons are well aware of the intrinsic futility of charms these may nevertheless
exercise a real, practical influence as a reminder to the subliminal self, or serve to keep
some nervous disturbance in check.
All these, and our higher religious appeals, ate but attempts at a practical realization of the
essential truth that it is possible by a right disposition of our own minds to draw energy from
an environing world of spiritual life.
V – Phantasms of the Dead
FROM the actions and perceptions of spirits still in the flesh we pass to inquire into the
actions of spirits no longer in the flesh, and into the forms of perception with which men
still in the flesh respond to that unfamiliar and mysterious agency. In popular language, we
are looking out for ‘ghosts.’
144
Now a ghost is not what popular fancy imagines as such, ‘a dead person permitted to
communicate with the living,’ but rather a manifestation of persistent personal energy, an
indication that some kind, of force is being exercised after death which is in some way
connected with a person previously known on earth.
Now this definition may seem to imply an assumption we are not warranted in making.
Theoretically, at least, it is just possible that this influence which, after a man's death,
creates a phantasmal impression of him may indicate no continuing action on his part, but
may be some residue of the force or energy which he generated while yet alive.
However, we may say that now, for the first time, we are able to form a conception of
ghostly communication which may be presented as in some way a development of facts
already experimentally known.
We have already the conception multiplex personality, the possibility of the co-existence of
many states and many memories in the same individual; and we have also the conception of
telepathy – the action of mind on mind apart from any bodily organ, forming, as it were,
messages from men to men still in the flesh.
Wherever, then, there is any form of hallucination, some message is forcing its way upwards
from one stratum of personality to another. In post mortem cases we ought to expect some
similar general principles to those of phantasms of the normal, actual life of man, and most
conspicuous in this class are actual apparitions.
A phantasm representing a person whose death is recent is specially likely to arouse interest,
and the emotional state of a person may be considered a sufficient cause for the
hallucination. But there are calm, collected states of mind wherein there are recorded
instances of phantasms.
For example, take the case of Rev. R. M. Hill, who saw a tall figure rush into his room. He
was surprised and alarmed, but it vanished before he had time to recognize it. An uncle, a
tall man, died about that moment, and it is remarked that although Mr. Hill knew his uncle
to be ill, the anxiety which he may have felt would hardly have given rise to an
unrecognized and formidable apparition.
Sometimes the phenomena associated with apparition are dismissed extremely lightly, but
all our study of personality shows us that, whatever else a ‘ghost’ may be, it is one of the
most complex phenomena in nature. It is a function of two unknown variables – the
incarnate spirit's sensitivity and the discarnate spirit's capacity of self-manifestation.
There are few recorded cases where actual apparitions give evidence of any continuity in the
knowledge possessed by a spirit of friends on earth, though there are cases where a spirit is
recorded as appearing repeatedly – in guardian angel fashion – foreseeing and sympathising
with certain happenings. Sometimes apparitions do imply a perception of earthly events
such as moral crises, marriage, grave quarrels or impending crimes of friends left behind on
earth.
Many cases of alleged apparition have been investigated by the Society for Psychical
Research, and their findings recorded; findings which stimulate the acutely scientific
experimenter to further research.
Of course, in any such inquiry as the present we must often stand intermediate between
matters capable and matters incapable of proof. The secure discovery that there is a life in
145
man independent of blood and all material would be a dominating fact of all science and
speculation.
OUR researches have given hope that science will shortly recognize that the relation
between the material and spiritual worlds cannot be an ethical or emotional relation alone.
In the spirit world we become conscious of laws at least as persistent and identical from age
to age as the known laws of energy and motion.
No longer can belief in the soul's survival after death be supported by tradition alone. It
must be more and more tested by experience and inquiry.
In the age of Thales, Greece was given delight by the first dim notion of cosmic unity and
law. In the age of Christ, Europe felt the first high authentic message from a world beyond
our own. In our own age we reach the perception that such messages may become
continuous and progressive, that between seen and unseen there is a channel and fairway
which future generations may learn to widen and to clarify.
FREDERIC WILLIAM HENRY MYERS was
born February 6, 1843, at Keswick, and educated at
Cheltenham College and at Trinity College,
Cambridge, where he had a distinguished academic
career and in 1865 was appointed classical lecturer.
In 1872 he became an inspector of schools and also
engaged in literature, publishing some admirable
verse and essays. Becoming interested in
spiritualistic phenomena he founded the Society for
Psychical Research in 1882 in association with
Henry Sidgwick, Richard Hodgson, Edmund
Gurney and F. Podmore20
. Myers died at Rome,
January 17, 1901. Before his death he agreed to
make every effort to communicate with his friends
of the Psychical Research Society from beyond the
grave, and it is claimed that messages have been
received.
Photo credit Elliott & Fry
—~§~—
20
Readers will observe that this biographical summary, manages to omit the Spiritualist involvement in
starting the SPR, which we have often covered, e.g. Stainton Moses, Dawson Rogers.
146
NOTES OF IMPROMPTU SITTING
HELD THE SAME EVENING
With MRS DUNCAN from 8.52 to 9.32 p.m.
[Comment by L.P. In the typescripts, this
séance is regarded as a continuation of the third
one printed in our last issue, and page numbers
run on. It is of some significance. Albert the
guide says he prompted Mrs Duncan to seek it
because he was having difficulty controlling her
subconscious mind, due to the scepticism of
some sitters. This reminds us that Mrs Duncan
was a sensitive. It cannot be surprising that
when she went to work in the even less
congenial laboratory of Harry Price, some
weeks later, disaster resulted.]
While having refreshments Mrs Duncan suddenly said she would like to go back into the
cabinet for about five minutes and asked Miss Phillimore if she could do this. We who were
still there accordingly went up with Miss Phillimore, sitting in a semi-circle round her, the
medium being dressed in her ordinary clothes which Miss Phillimore had helped her to put
on just previously.
Order of sitters from left of medium: Miss Shafto, Mr Duncan, Miss Phillimore.
Time 8.52 to 9.32.
This sitting was held in excellent bright red light, by which one could see the time on a
small watch.
Movements were heard behind the curtain---the medium was being moved further back
inside the cabinet, and is heard breathing heavily. The sitters were sitting within easy arm’s
length of the cabinet.
Almost immediately a long unformed piece of ectoplasm is seen at the opening of the
curtains, the curtains close again, quickly re-opening showing a mass of ectoplasm falling
from the shoulder.
A mass of ectoplasm is seen coming to a narrow point at the left side.
Half a figure came out at the right side of the curtain, disappeared and was followed by a
full figure with a partially moulded face.
Sketch of “Albert” published
in 1932
147
ALBERT Got her back in the chair.
MR The net inhibits the phenomena?
ALBERT No, it is the effect on her mind. My reason for impressing her to come back
here is because I wanted to have a few words with you (Miss Phillimore and Mr Duncan).
ALBERT Look here, the thing is that by putting her into the net, she feels there is
something that you doubt, and we must get it into her mind that you do not doubt her, and I
must get the brain under my domination.
Mr D. We will do out best to impress on her the necessity of getting rid of that idea.
ALBERT Well, look here, I am very pleased to have made the acquaintance of you, but
look here, will you please give me your word that I have really tried to do my best, that I
have pleased you in every way?
MISS P. We are simply delighted to have met you and seen what you are able to do, and we
are hoping that you will be able to come to London again and have a series of sittings.
ALBERT Is this London?
MISS P. Yes, we are delighted with your work, and are hoping to co-operate with you in
the future, and we shall count upon your co-operation. We have to try to discover a plan
whereby there are satisfactory arrangements for your medium and her family, and we shall
do our very best I assure you, Albert.
ALBERT I think you are a very nice girl.
MISS P. I am glad you approve of me, as we approve of your work, and we are very
grateful to Dr Rust for bringing you.
A long full length figure of the ectoplasm is again seen in the centre of the curtains.
MR D. Is the light too strong?
ALBERT He is a terrible boy for the light. I was never fond of the darkness at any time. I
remember your name---Julia Baggallay.
MISS P. No, I am Miss Phillimore. Mrs Baggallay has gone home. You know I am in
favour of the light.
More ectoplasm showing, a full length form, with holes showing where the eyes should be.
MISS P. We shall look forward to working in the future and we hope you and ourselves
will be successful in interesting a great many people who want to study this matter.
ALBERT Well, I think I will go, Mercy, good night. God be with you till we meet again.
I do so feel how much easier it makes your work when anyone appreciates it, and just a
word of thanks makes you feel you have all the world.
MISS P. I can assure you, you have our gratitude.
148
ALBERT I always try to make myself affable to everyone.
MR D. I want you to bring people over here so as to prove your identity.
ALBERT Oh, but I will do that.
MR D. Then, another thing, Albert. It is proving one thing getting the medium out of the
bag.
ALBERT About matter?
Mr D. Yes, matter is a very important thing.
ALBERT (to medium) Don’t you rise up---sit down.
The medium is heard rising, the curtains open and a form is visible built up inside the
cabinet. This disappears and appears at the opening on the right of the cabinet.
The ectoplasm is plainly seeing coming from the medium’s mouth and a head and shoulders
being formed.
The curtains open again and a miniature form is seen just behind the curtain, resembling the
human form, sufficiently definite to recognize and about two feet high.
i.e. It could be recognized that an attempt was being made to mould a form similar to the
human. M.P.
The medium is seen in the centre of the cabinet and the ectoplasm is again seen coming
from the right hand side of the cabinet at the same time.
The medium is seen sitting in the chair and a tiny hand appears waving in from of the
curtain, the hand is a bright flesh colour.
Another warm coloured shape appeared and dis-appeared almost as quickly, the medium’s
breathing being distinctly audible at the same time.
The miniature hand again appears, like a baby’s, this is a bright luminous flesh colour.
At my position I saw a tiny double pointer like a thumb and forefinger. M.P.
This appears again---a larger size this time. The fingers are all sharply defined.
Groans and uneasy breathing heard from medium during this process.
Albert then instructs the medium to put her hand outside the curtain. She does so, and on
this he places a materialized hand which looks like a hand in a housemaid’s glove only it is
bright and flesh colour. (written in pencil) I recollect the large hand crudely formed as
appearing as white as snow M.P.
ALBERT I heard someone saying that they would like to see a stream coming from the
mouth, I am not able to get the full amount but I will do my very best.
MR D. Have you any helpers with you, Albert?
149
ALBERT If they are not sent I am not allowed to take anyone.
The curtains open again and the medium is seen standing with the ectoplasm reaching to the
floor---it disappeared and then re-appeared at the side of the curtain, then the medium came
just outside the centre of the curtain within eighteen inches of sitters and the masses of
ectoplasm were seen coming from the mouth and the nose. At the same time there was a
piece of the stuff, about 6 inches across at the side opening of the curtain which curled
round and round and disappeared.
The medium disappeared behind the curtain and reappeared in a moment with the ectoplasm
curled neatly in the form of a large ‘Sally Lunn’ bun at the left side of her face. Curtains
Closed.
The curtains again opened and the ectoplasm was swathed round the head in the form of a
wide bandage, ending in a curious round flat shape, like about half a dozen or more large
wafer biscuits with rough edges. The ectoplasm is seen constantly changing its form and
within a few seconds it has entirely disappeared and the medium is lying back in her chair in
deep trance, she gets up and walks out sitting in Mr. Duncan’s chair.
Mr Duncan then suggests that Miss Phillimore and Miss Shafto shall carefully examine the
medium as she comes out of her trance.
The medium returns to the cabinet, is heard breathing heavily, then again comes out and sits
in a chair which was behind the circle---this chair had not been noticed by the sitters,---and
the medium backed into without any fumbling M.P. and Mrs Duncan gradually woke. When
she sat down in Miss Phillimore’s room she looked at her clothes in bewilderment, not
being used to being dressed in this way for a séance. She stripped and was examined by the
two sitters who found everything quite satisfactory---the medium even taking off her shoes
again so that these should be re-examined.
—~§~—
150
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.organd we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue, or to contact Psypioneer please e-
mail: psypioneersub@icloud.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
