{"name":"The New Cheats Of London","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1792__anonymous___the_new_cheats_of_london.pdf","mytitle":"The New Cheats Of London","mylang":"de"}
f
T H E N E W
CHEATS of'To NDON
E X P O S E D ;
0 *»
T h e FRAUDS and TR IC K S of the T O W N
LAID OPEN TO BOTH SEXES.
BEING
A GUARD againft the iniquitous PRACTICES
of that M E TR O PO L IS.
CONTAINING
A N ew and Clear Difcovery of all the various Cheat», Fraud.«, Vil'alni>s.
Artifices, '[ricks, S editions, Stratagems, Imp
w hich are daily pradded in London, by
. litions ami D¿ccl^
Bawds, and Bullies, Lottery-Office- Keepers, Setters,
Duffers, Mock-Aui'tioncers, Spungers.
Fortune-Tellers, Mo-iey-Iboppers, *h.irpri j,
G am blers, Ring-Droppers, Svvin Jers,
Go flips, Pimps, Smugglers,
Hangers-on, Pretended Friends, S-iop lifers.
J ilts , Procurers, Stoctrobbsre,
intelligencers, ProcurefTes, 1tappers,
J jw-Deia ilters, Quacks, Way-la vers,
1 niolvcm i, Receiver* of ftolen '. aggoci hunters,
K idnappers, Goods, A’Lores, fco, ir .
IN
T
E
R
S
P
E
R
S
E
DW
IT
H
U feful Re&s&ions and Admonitions, Salutary Hints ar,d Ob'crv3'ions,
whereby Rogues and Cheats are not only expoled, but may be avoided«
by ihe-Inftruitions herein contained.
T h e whole laid dpwn in fo plain and ca4
V a Manner, as to enable the mo?,
innocent Conntry People to be completely on ;heir G-zrd h.<v/ to avoid
the bafe villainies of thofe vileaud abmdoned Wretches, who live by
Villainy and Fraud. *
*
Herein are fhown the various Feats
O f Whores and Ro; jim, and other Clients;
Here Vouth are taught hole >.-;aies to ilum,
By which tOo haht are undone.
L O N D O N :
f H I N T E D FOR» A N D SOLD B V W. C L E M E N T S , J. IADLIF,
A N D J. EVES. 1 7 9 1 .
* £ I G E O N S ,
THt NEW ÏOIK !
PUBLIC LIBRARY
335888B
ASTOS, L*iOX AND
XOAEN FfWDATltNS
B IMS h
P R E F A C E.
S no man can tejlify aflronger regard
for hisfellow creatures than by warn­
ing them of dangerous courfes, and directing
them to thofe which lead to virtue and happi-
nefs, fo the writer of thefe fa cts, the more
effeStually to accompliß fuch an ufeful de-
flg n , has exhibited that picture of infamy
which is daily prefented in this great metro­
polis, to the utter deflruStion of innocent
youth, and the heart-felt dißrefs of many
tender parents.
As, in a natural fenfe, guiding the blind,
and informing the ignorant, are efieemed the
moft exalted a£ts of humanity;fo, in a moral
fen fe, to point out to the innocent and un­
wary, the traps that are laid for them, and
the means by which they may ß u n their fa ta l
confequences, muß be allowed the greatefl
mark of benevolence. The author, therefore
influenced by thefe. motives, thinks it a duty
incumbent on him to expofe thqfe fallacies
which deprive fo many not only of their
putation, but even their very exijlence, <
as his intention is honejt, he hopes little
accuracies will be overlooked, as his labo
are calculated not for the peYufal of
carping critic, but the downwright ho:
man, who will embrace every opportunity
avoiding thofe direful delujions which n
lead to de/lruStion.— Regardlefs, therefi
of the fneer of modern wits, or the ridic
of the abandoned, he will efleem it an atr,
. compenfation for the pains he has bejlox
On this little performance, if it happily te
to. the detection and deflruStion of one V
or defence and promotion of one virtue,
fie begs leave, likewife, to acquit htm^
of any imputation which might be laid to
charge from his knowledge in thefe vari
fcenes of vice, by informing the ingenu
reader, that they were communicated to i
by an unhappy brother who had been a pr
cipal aStor in moft of them, and afpedta
in dll.
( iv )
Tl
THE
E X P O S E D , &c.
<
1 C H E A T S o f L O N D O N
I
N order to render the plan of this little trearife
fufficiently obvious to every reader, we (hall
rangethe various abandoned, and vicious characters
of both fexes under their refpettive heads; where­
inwill be given a fuccind; account of their detect­
ablepra&ices, and to which will be fubjoined the
ffioft eifeftaaFmethods to avoid their pernicious
tendency. By thefe means we (hall not only un­
dertake to guide the countryman of all rauks fafe
to London, but to preferve them when there ; nor
fcall we at the fame time be ¿efficient in endea­
vouring to keep inviolate the morals of our towns­
men. To puriue our intended plan, we will be­
ginwith the chaTa&er of
- HIGHWAYMEN or SCAMPS.
'J'HESE are generally perfons who have been ac-
cuftomed to extravagant living, and lewd wo­
men, and thus exhauiled their fubftance. If fuc-
cefsful in bufinefs they appear as gentlemen, and
Ret acquainted with the hoftlers on the road, and
fome landlords, to obtain intelligence. Gentlemen
travellers frequently call for thodphdiord to take a
glafg with them, and in the courfé of converfation
dMctftrer what caffi or notés they tÉrês a.vA'a'wew.
lie, the toad they are going, Wfk tVe ykw.
> life. When Mr. Scamp comes, he calls tot •
tie or bowl, and aiks, What news? when, pci
the landlord, undefignedly, informs him tha
or fach company are in the houfe, who have
intelligence concerning various particulars, i
he repeats it time permits. For thefe reafons
gentlemen are pnrfued on the road, though,
are met by chauce. Highwaymen generally
you before they falute; but I advife ail gent!
travellers not to divulge what fubftance they
with them to any landlord or hoftler, efpe
within forty milis of London? as they gen
difeover all the information they can get, <
through ignorance or defign.
S H A R P E R S .
T H E SE are the more delufive, as molt of
are men of reputable extra&ion, tole
education, and decent appearance; but thr
. vicious purfuits have fquandered their for
and loft their reputation. They range the
in the garb, and under the character of gent1
of independent fortunes; and make it their
nefs to find out young heirs of much wealth,
lefs prudence, who having left their rural ab
and being captivated with the novelty of a
life, often affett the company of tbofe who
cording to the common phrafe, are faid to ,
iife. ' They commonly refort to the billiard-1
the cock.pit, the race-coufe, the tennis-court,
the bowling-green, in the refpe&ive games be;
ing to thich they are generally well verfed
long, wee coifr experience.
Having been as they call jt taken in themfe
they faifely infer their right to take in otli
ztd accordingly turn their whgVe mvafo v*
|»fe purpófe. Conftant prafticc teaches them al.
moft at a glance to difcern the gamefter from the
take, as they term it; and fuch an one is no fooner
entered their place of refort, but they advife means
to draw him in for the plate; and generally (trip
bit pockets before he departs. So fallacious are
they, they will, even under the maik of friend-
fhip, draw an unguarded, generous man into the
moft deftruftive meafures, and (hare vith their
bale confederates the produtt of their treachery.
If'you hazard your money in betts with a (harper,
as cheating is bis infeparable qualification, you
have not only blind chance to deal with, but fuch
acombination of deceit, and fuch a train of tricks
and flights linked together, that even good fortune
isnot fufficient to guard and fecure you againft
them. Nay, if you could arife to a degree of
eminence in any particular game, he would even
then devile means, either by working up your
paffion, or eluding your infpe&ion, to fruftratc
yonr point and carry bis own.
He will inveigle you, from time to time, into
pnefport or another, amongft others of his dan,
vho are adepts in diffimulation, till they have
genteelly fleeced you of perhaps your all, and treat
you afterwards with as much indifference, as he
at firft affe&ed refpett. When you can no longer
adminifter to bis iniquitous purpofes, he will not
Pnly defert you, but make a feoff of your inex­
perience and credulity. To fum up the character
9f a (harper; he is one, who fupplies his exigen­
ces' by ftudying and praftifiug every means, that
pey deceive the credulous, allure the inexperi-
trepan the ignorant, and nvAs&d \Jcve,
'«polcd. His confeience is fcated, a& vv
( 7 )
witha hot iron, he is regardlefs of the laws of G<
and man, a* far as is confiilint wi;h his fecurn
and is fo abforhe. in vice, that he is 'nfufceptil
of every humane or honourable f:raiment. Ï
avoiJ the fatal effefts of condition wtth thé
fnake* in the grafs, if you have nacquaintance^
town, be very cautious of ke: piug company. '
any one behaves with extraordinary civility towa£
you, or afl'tcls to delire your fritndfhip, be<m
of him, liflen not to hiscntrance, for as you a
a ilranger to him, his defire of cultivating afrit
quaintance with you ntuft arife from bafe and fclf
views. If you are accoiled in the ftreet, parks
any place of public refort in the ordinary w*jr
converfe, concerning the topic of the time, or«
incidental fuhje&s, affeft cither not to heart
turn afide. This is a very common method
proceeding with thofe gtntlemen. ■
:v
In ihorr, take nothing on truft, nor mak#*1
'
acquaintance till allured cf their way of lift?;
moral character. *
K I D N A P P E R S .
•THESE are lazy vagrants of ruined charafl
who are employed to trepan ignorant ilr
ptfting young men to enter into the ftrvice of
merchants, or iu time of war into the arifi*
navy. They haunt night-houfes, petty ale-nôt
and the fkirts of the toivn. Their ufual met
is to accoll a countryman in the common q»'
of falutarion, and if pcfilble inveigle him ii^
■houft: to diink. If poor John cptches at the*
they thtn put the liquor about briikly, and it
find it begins to operate, they queftion hiflfl
ccrning the time of his being in town, the prafe
he follows, or intends to foWow, Uc.
( 8 )
( 9 )
kéerî bred to any trade, they imitate to him thfe
Superiority of a gentleman foldier’s life, who is in
She road both to fortune and preferment ; if of no
trade and in queft of a place of fervice, they allure
him they will provide him every requisite for a
gentleman w‘ 4 >ut the drudgery of a menial life.
It is very common at their places of rendezvous,
to have two or three fellows attired in ierjeants
regimentals, who are ready to allure them of their
fpeedy preferment, and that they need not doubt
of the fame; When he becomes intoxicated,
they frequently flip money into his pocket, and in
¿0.hour or two afterwards, falute him as a brother
{oldier ; if the poor countryman difeovers any
furprife at this falutatioti, they then apply to thèir
ÿerjured comrades, who are ready to atteft his ac­
ception Of bounty-money in conlideration of en-
lifting j and to prove it, he is referred to his own
feeling. The aftoniihal innoceit then puts his
hand into his pocket, if capable, finds money,
and isItriick with amazement. If the liquor ope­
ratesaccording to the bafe di fire of thofe, whoad-
iuinifter it, they fave themfelves further trouble
ifter they have palmed the money on the unfuf1
-
peâingmari, by conveying him to bed, locking the
noorof the room, and leaving him to his morning
refleftions.
th e reader may readily conceive the aftoni{h->
ment of thè honeft countrymain, when, he awakes
Inallrange placé, finds a cockade in his hat, or
the money in his pock t. In vain he expoftulatês
with the mércilels myrmidon, who is ready to
fwéarit'was an a<ftof his own free will, and if he de*
fatto be exempted from the obligation, \vo
£
tomb down fomething handfome. Thus the poor,
harmlefs honeft man is trepanned either Into a
ftate of flavery (for in many cafes it is no better)
or obliged to purchafe his deliverance at an ex­
tortionate rate. '
This is the common method in which thefe en­
slavers of the unwary commonly proceed; and fuch
the two general confequence ol their vile crafts,
and the credulity of the unexperienced youth.
To caution you againft thofe fedvcers of the
unthinking, obferve that many of them drefs in
the garb of officei s, and Hand often at the door oi
an alehoufe in order to accoft paflers-by; fomc
of them appear in other garbs« and their bufinefi
is to allure you to the houfe where the principal
villain is ready to receive you. The firft you may
know by their drefs, the latter you may fufpecS
from his impertinent addrefs, you have therefore
only to remember thefe defcriptions, and to avoid
whatever tallies in the leaft with them.
G A M B L E R S .
’T'HOUGH thefe are included, as well as many
others we (hall mention, under the character
of (harpers, we think it neccf&Ty to our purpofe
to confider them feparately, in order to difcover
to our honeft readers their various tricks and xe-
fources, for the better difcovery of them, and
their furer Cfcape.
As we before obferved, they are verfed in rnoft
games praitifed by men of principal for divetfion
only; we (hall point out their various methods of
cheating« trepanning, ¡and deluding the unwary,
and inexperienced, and begin ypsta ttut mwrc&ug
diverGon of. 2 etinii. \
( 1 0 ) .
t: * í r.-:
r - 5' ‘
Jiî :.;-*
n:r.::í r*
2:*:- - *
til* r
C
»'* .
p
&r ::
i ,
i l i : -
en: :
*
t : : i .
ài--
t'-i'r; -.
«
T
C
.
p ^ :; .
!tít-
\■?*-.-
4
take the wrong fide Jaft time, ’twas a tight mate
and no body could tell who had the bell of it t
the advantage came To draw him on Hill fu
ther they oiler him his choice, alluring him lh<
covet not to carry off his money. In this mann
the unguarded, deluded country gentleman
drawn on from fet to fet, and from fmall bets I
large ones, till they have Jiuck him as they call i
and then, according to their language, they fe
dom part with him till they fend him away
and clean. In moil of thefe matches, there
either a bribed marker, fome gentleman that h;
firil loll his ellate, and then his honour; or fon
fcoundrel that never had eftatç nor honour, bi
acquired the game by confiant attendance on tl
cour s. There are many in town who live mere;
upon the tenuis epurt ; and thpfe have fuch a pe
feét notion of a fet, and fi> many intricate m
(hods of turning their bets, that a perfon muff!
naturally accute, as wed as inured tp the game b
long experience, before he can be an adept in i
Upon the whole, 1 can honeilly affine the coui
try gentleman, that if he chances to fall in amor
them, they’ll cheat him if they can ; if they cai
not entice him to bet, they’ll endeavour tp enti
him to fome other houfe or game, and ’tis odds
he leaves them in the fame plight of pocket as 1
found the ...
BOWLING, as well as tennis, was formerly
game for-tew but gentlemen ; but it is how becou
too much a trade for cheats and {harpers. If tho
who live by this game get a ftranger to engaj
with them hand to hand, though the moll expe
bowler, ihey’ll dévife fome mea. s to defraud hin
Some will croîs the ground upon Ytvnv\ extant'«
( I2 )
)pwl to him juft upon the delivery of the bow],
er cunham-i him with impertinent advice, to
make him forget Ins le'igt’.s Perhaps one of the
gang wili pietend to have netted on liis fide, and
foamnie him with giving him falfe ground. If
thefe tricks fail, .m<l the Itratiger appeals a mafter
pf the game, tliere is a perion leady to ctoim a
right to the bowls then in hand : this afi'oids them
an opportunity to put faife ones into ins hand,
either black-biafled, pegged or leaded ; or tofofier
pnfoipe device, that will anfwer their purpofe in
the end. But what I have urged concerning the
games of Tennis and Bowls, I mean not to dif-
iuadc any perfon from the practice of them, as
they are both of them manly and innocent amufe~
ments of themfelves; but to caution the unwary
(iony the fnajes of gamblers, who proftitule tliem
to their fraudulent purpofes, by picking the poc­
kets of the honeft, but unguarded country gen­
tlemen.
To avoid thefe, never vifit a Tennis Court or
BowLng Green, without ftricfl enquiry into the
Company, who ordinarily frequent them; and then
it wou> .i be beft to take a friend with you, who is
accuftomei to the ways of the town.
COCK FIGHTING, though an ancient cuftom,
and pradlifed c-v the nobility and gentry of this
kingdom, is a ic-nd-dqus and barbarous diverlion,
and rehe<5to a difgt-ce on human nature; permit
me, thereroie, to ddfiiade my readers in general
from even appearing in fuch icenes of cruelty,
which . re e'er pi ¿hied to moft notations villain­
ies, and \viiic.i are lit for the attendance of Gafli-
Men a-one.
( *3 )
HORSE-RACING may at firft view be fop*
-nofed within the compafe o£ the country-naan's
Knowledge, but I apprehend I can difcover many
tricks in that diverfion, to which the greater part
are utter grangers. jU is pertain, thefe are all
frequented by a number of London Gamblers,
who take the rout from one courfe to another
throughout the kingdom; and have iludied the
various means of fraud in this branch of fport, as
a tradcfman does his art of profellion c It is often
in thefe matches pre-concerted who is to be the
.winner, by which means thoufands are taken in.
Gamblers getting together, pretend to make a
great buftle, and to be very ianguine for this or
the other horfe, by which means byrftepder$ ate
often induced to bet and lofe their money, as they
1cnow the winner before they come into the .courfe.
{Sometimes at a fair match, when judgment can
only decide the wagers, o.ne of the .clan having
made a bet, another fleps up, and the money fry
content of parties is depofited in his hands, if
the match goes in favour of the fair fportfman,
¿way pikes the kiddy with the money. The ftran-
ger flares, the gambler fwears, but all to no pur-
pofe; the former mull put up with the lofs, and
the latter flinks off with a hypocritical concern for
being acceflary to the money’s being depofited in
flie hands of a rogue; having taken down the re­
sidence of the deluded men, and promifed, on
dete&ion of the bilk, to give him immediate no­
tice. To infure yourfejf from this kind of cheat,
it is bcft not make any kind of bets; or only tri­
fling ones with thofe of your acquaintance.
BILLIARDS is a genteel ingenious game, and
requires much dexterity and *
, \j\ax
( »4 )
tthers is perverted with gamblers. 1 venture t#
iffirm, there are more idle fellows live by this
kind of diverfion in London, than by any other,
and the reafon is evident; becaufe it is more prac­
ticed. Thefe by hovering over tables from morn­
ing to night, acquire in time a tolerable proficien­
cy in the game; as well as a knowledge of the
various frauds pra&ifed in it. When a ftranger
enters the room, they all, tb ufe their own phnde,
Aagbim, and can foon, if he fpeaks concerning
the fubjedt, difcem if he is a pigeon. By a pigeon*
I mean a perfon, who is either a novice at the
game, or an obftinate conceited fool, who will
play with a fuperior to gratify his own vanity. If
they cannot by propofing great odds get the no­
vice to play, they will draw him on to bet, and
asat Tennis, let him win three or four times, till
at length the tables turn upon, him, and he is de­
cently fleeced of his cafh. The obftinate, vain
man, generally ferves their turn better than even
the novice. He thinks, becaufe he has been
deemed ah adept, at a table reforted to by gentle­
men and tradefmen for their diverfion only, he it
a match for any player, and therefore to ipread
his fame, vifits different tables. But fuch a one
caunot but be a dupe to his own vanity, and a
pigeon to the Gambler; becaufe the (kill of the
former is only the refult of playing occafionally
for his amufement, while that of the latter is the
effedt of daily pradtice and itudy as his foie liveli­
hood. The country gentleman, when in town,
may avoid the fnares of Gamblers at the game of
Billiards, by declining all bets, andaU ^asj viltk
hangers.
( *5 )
»
V
( .« )
ftAíÜNG HOUSES: Befide* the varloiis fpor
Í
irbftituted to the fraudulent purpofes oí tins i
ambus clan, there are hoiifes ¡u th.s ¡own :
apart for that vile ufe. The fe aré retepüdes 1
all forts bf gameílfers, and very incc<ii\e?uent m
feries, tb irain up yourigfters, and quaiify ti.cm
play awáy théir éílates when they cume into t!;<
hands. . The adepts at thefe hordes pietend
proceed to mathematteal tu es, and *ie doélrii
of proportion: and that ail th¡ngs aré theréfo
carried fairly and fquarely amor.git them ; b
liut many of them have ueen detected hi the v,
eft frauds; Hazard is théir chier game ; and tiii
have (if gamblers) a fort oF fade dice; ihat a
cut and (lamped fo exaétíy like the true, and wit
al marked with the fame mark, that it is impol
ble for fttangers, that do not fufpedl the cheat;
difeover it. The bbx-kéeper has coiumohly
readinefs, to put forth on a iign given. Whi
they have got a gentleman, whom they defign
rookin among them, while lome are lharping hi
out of hi; money within, others áre t^mperi
with his fervants without, to find out his circuí
fiances, and the place of his reiidence in ow
If they find his effe&s will infere them; and tl
he is a perfon,. who may be ventured on, as fo<
as they perceive he has loft his flock, one of t
gang calls him afide, and after telling him of 1
genteel appearance, ánd generous fpirit, to pi
vent his being expofed, offers him five or b
pieces. If he accepts of the favout, he tel.s hi
the cuftona, in fuóli cafes, if to take nine for te
and to allow .him a call,upon a good hand. Wb
this is loft too (as if always is tti a little tim
then they conclude he is fotedk. TVe yyrá&aca
( *7 )
fcho bas done him the favor to cheat of his motley
inviteshim-to the tavern, (under pretence ofcivility)
and when they have decoyed him thither, the
Î
ierfon that did him the extraordinary fervice to
end him the ten pieces, is fern for. He in the
tnean time has made up a new purfe, and is ready
to credit him with the other ten till next morning,
ifhe is difpofed to try his luck. If he contents,
that likewife is foon loft, and what refource has he
then? his worthy friend has no more caih about
him; but declares it at-his opinion, that lince they
havewon the gentleman's teady money, th„y ought
' togive him a cad or two upon honour. With
touch Teeming teluâance, this is complied with.
Thus begins the fatal cataftrophe ; if they think
hehas too much regard for his reputation, or too
touch modefty to make ufe of the ftatutc for his
defence, or is unwilling that the town lhould
know he has been a bubble ; then they (lick him
fodeep^vthat he mud cut off a limb of his edate
to delira* himfelf from their clutches. I have
been particular in defining this fpedes of Cam»
biers, as they are of all others mod injurious to
fociety, both from their deceitful appearance and
their views being directed to country gentlemen
of property. This very relation of their infamous
proceedings we deem a fuificient caution to avoid
them.
S E T T E R S .
'J’HESE are fervile, defpicable wretches, capable
of every aâion bafe and fordid, fuch as in*
nnnatiori, flarery, hypocrify, and
whatever may contribute to thevc ysa-
pofes. All the villainies and çYvcaxs vu, nasoxt
G
unite in their abjeft minds, and they (land evel
ready to profecute advantageous mifchief. Theit
common employ is to watch the motions of younfl
heirs, to draw and trepan them into mean and
unequal matches, and impofe upon .them jilts and
whor,es for women of character and fortune. Tbit
they practice with fuch art and dexterity, that it it
almoit impcflible, if you once fall into their manage'
menr, to ? (cape from it, without being totalb
ruined. Thofe who unfortunately attend to thei
guileful infinuations often fully their honour b;
marrying a harlot; and render themfelves the by
word and laughing (lock of their acquaintance
and the ignominy is brought on them through tb
means of a new afiociate, under the hypocritica
pretence of Angular honeity and Cncerity. If the!
fetters cannot palm a wife upon you, they wi
endeavour to draw you into Jham projects .an
chimeras. If you embark in any of their fcberne!
you are fure to be entangled ; and not only loi
all the ready money you part with, but are in gres
hazard of being drawn into future bonds, an
confequeotly ruined at la(t. The whole life of
Setter,'is, in a few words, a continued feene of dc
liberate villainy j his bufinefe confifts in betrayin
and trepanning, his fuftenance depends upo
fraud, and he may.be deemed a fnake in the grafs.
H A N G E R S O N o r S P U N G E R S.
r| TIESE are a kind of fottiih indolent wretche
• and though not fo mifehievious as the forme
are as trctublefome and impertinent, and inde<
more offenfive to a man of fenfe than either
them. They recommend themfelves to (u^exfici
perCons, by a pretence to a tahe for Vvttvaxw
stod a knowledge o f the humouta of vho to’
( '8 )
, By virtne of thefe qualifications, they think them*
felves companions for the beft gentlemen in the
i
- kingdom,, and will be fure, upon the fmalleit in­
vitation, to croud tbetnfelves upon them, if they
meet with encouragement; and it is much if by
degrees they grow not familiar, after that impudent,
i t andat lad intolerable. A Spunger's whole flock
i of entertainment, is generally, a bawdy fong or
two, a few drunken healths, and half a dozen
! dull puns; with thefe he will be perpetually grating
four ears till be has tired your patience, and you
arcobliged to rid yourfelf from him by very rough
treatment. The town fwarms with thefe drones ;
and a country gentleman can hardly fet his foot
into it, but he his furrounded by them. How
unreafonable, I may add, how infamous it is, to
[ pick up inch loofe and profitlefs peTfons and make
I them companions. I have often beheld with fur-
prize feveral of them (talking before a country
i gentleman, and crowding themfeivcs into all com-
; paoyand buiinefs with him, fucking and fpunging
’ upon him, and, in a literal fenfe, eating him up
alive. Thefe you may know by the defeription
given of them, and if you retain the lead inge­
nuity of temper, you will doubtlefs treat them
with the contempt they deferve.
M O N E Y . D R O P P E R S.
^H E rendezvous of thefe petty cheats, is in the
moil popular parts of the town, fuch as Moor-
fields, Covent-garden, and other public places be-
tWeenWdlminfter-Hall and Temple-Bar, efpecially
?he two former; and it is fome odds if a country­
man paffes through either of them but he is attack-
by a parry. The manner of vY
vt* cYveax \%
To make a compUat ftt, vY
vextt
q
m
ROo
*
( »9 )
three of them: one to perfonate a mercha
other a country gentleman, and the third a
man. When they hit off the cully, one
gang marches dire&ly before him, and :
follows clofe behind, till they come to a con
place, where the mouthy as they term binr
needs obferve. The fpark that is in the fro
drops the guinea: *
*faith (fays he, turning
(hanger) [ have found a piece of (none
“ I think it is a guinea.” Then if he tb;
the rear perceives he is infcnfible of the chi
he Heps and claims halves. After a Igtt
fquabble between the two cheats, fays tl
“ If any has a right to foack, it is this ger
“ who (aw me take it u p : but to prevent d
“ we'll all go to the tavern and (pend tl
** money, and then divide the remainder <
“ amongft ns.” The third (till continu«
diftance to obferve the fuccefs of their tr
ment, and in what tavern they houfe him,
is generally one to which they are accuf
when he is fixt, then in he comes in a
hnrry and pretended eonfufion for the lo:
bill, which he fays, he fnppofcs he dropp
now, in the very room where they are dr:
To give cpfour to the fraud, one of the tv
veys a fhg^; bill under the table, which
mediately takes up, and as a teftimony of l
calls for his pint.
After they begin to grow a little warm, u
one of them, and pretends to have difco\
pack o f cards, which he has before placed i
convenient part of the room for his pi
** Ha! vfays he) here’s a pack of cards;
ft I’
ll {hew you one of the imaneft.
( 20 )
( «« )
* was taught by a Frenchman a fetir days ago.’*
Then to poffefs their cully of their innocence,
they (hew feveral of their ordinary tricks upoq
the cards. At lad, he that is mod dexterous,
iUrts the grand trick: on which wagers enfue, and
the mouth is generally taken in. If tuis does not
pals noon him, they try him with fade dice, rug
ini « leather, or twenty other proje&s, which
they 'S.ve ready on fuch occafions. In (hort,
rather than fail they will knock him down, rifle
him, or pick his pocket. If you obferve the
manner in which this cheat is deferibed, you need
hocaution againd it.
P I C K P O C K E T S .
3 THESE rabble of cheats are fuch as from tbeir
* youth have been trained up to the bafe art,
which conlids of a kind of flight in picking youy
' property from you imperceptibly. Their chief
refort is Black-boy-alley, the ruinous buildings
i about Chick-lane, and fuch. like places. They
i attend on public occafions ; fuch as public days,
proedhons, extraordinary fights, &c. They
generally go in clans of a man, a woman and
fbtldren, each of whom have their refpe&ive de­
partments. In crouds they effedl a great ddire of
paiTtng, and the ufual method is for the man to
joftle the perfon pointed out as the mark, while a
foy or girl does the bufmefs, and conveys th^
plunder to a woman, and then make offfrequently
under a coach or two if there are any hand. They
alio frequent places of public worlhip, (hat are
{generallycrowded through fafhion,or the popularity
®
f a preacher, from which they frequently carry
off a good booty; and indeed embrace
PPportuaity, when there is likely to be z eotteooAe-
( =2 )
pf people. Thefe are the molt difficult of a
pheats to guard again!! in London, becaufe the
are more in number, and often in purfoit of prej
The moft effe&ual method I can preferibe, ist
avoid all crowd?, which are frequently railed b
thefe means, and if you go to' plapes of publi
refort, leave every thing valuable behir^l yot
and always be upon your guard. Ladies ii
particular fliould be careful of their watcMa “
am
tweezers, as thefe areeafily cut from their tides.
Q U A C K S . ' *
'"THESE are arrogant mifcreant6, thaj: rof> fhon
fands, not only of their money but thei
health. They pretend to a knowledge ip phyfi
and furgery, op the meer foundation, perhaps, f
having done menial offices of gentlemen of th
faculty; or perhaps a few receipts from fome o
■
their own fraternity. They have nothing to re
commend them to a confumate effrontery, and w
other means of palming their peftiferous pom
pounds upon the unwary, than puff, groundlel
affurances, and lnfolent detraction. They hay
alfo a convenient back door, and private room, •
regular furgeon and phyfician to attend, and
thoufand fuch like allurements, to entice you t
the ruin of yopr ponftitution.
Country people arp more efpecially liable to b
caught in their fnares, from want of acquaintanc
in town, and if their cafe is venereal, thro’ iham
of divplgmg it to thofe with whom they refide
to caution you againft thefe murderers of the con
litItution, I lhall lay before you their genere
method of treating the unhappy patient in venerpi
cafesparticularly.
When the infe&ed perfon applies, they judge
fef his circumftances generally by his appearance,
knd take care to make him come down before they
proceed to buGnefs. After examination, if they
‘
find him a novice, they endeavour to intimidate
him, by reprefenting the Hate of his cafe to be
much worfe than it really is, but yet, to extort
inoney, promife, notwithftanding the malignant
nature of it, afpeedy and effe&ual cure. Having
'given him fomeof tneir compounds with direiftons
concerning the application of them, they appoint
in interview at a certain time and difmifs him.
He muft then produce another prefent, and is
difmiffed as before. Their common method is to
dallywith you as long as polfible, and then either
decieve you with a patched up cure, or more dread­
fulfyinptoms than appeared on your firft applicati-
1on; but the former is the moll common cafe, of
. which there are daily inltances in this town. To
i avoidall connexion with thefe worft of deceiveis,
¡apply on all occaGons to perfons of eilablilhed
. ftpute from a regular education, and fair character.
T R A P P E R S .
1'HESE carry on their vile putpofes by the aflift-
ance of a pregnant whore, and the help of
’force letters and papers, they pick out of your
pockets, which give them an inlet into your affairs.
Ifthey once are fo fortunate to get a big-bellied
»hare into their confederacy, they carry her about
a kind of triumph among all their cullies and
novices; every one forfooth, under the notion of
being the true father, muft fubferibe an individual
toiintemnce for the ftrumpet and the c\\vV\, «t a
wnaat muft be got immediately, and t\\e-
Me pariih called in to th e ir aftitvaiu» to n *
( *3 )
( )
you to it. If you conteil the cafe with thetri, tl
jade is ready to fwear it upon you, and all is fettl
ed. If they get your papets and Idtters, thefe a
the credentials for them to commence theit villaii
ies; in fuch cafes they pretend that the harlot wf
rifled you, Was an honeft woman, and a perfon i
credit, and you mud either make fatisfa&on; an
compound the bufinefs, or they will expofe yo
firft, and bring their a¿lion agamil you afterward
In fuch dircumltances a man is at alofs how toai
If he compounds, he lays himfelf open to the
mercy, and renders himfelfa bubble and a proper!
for the future. If you conteft it with them, yo
injure your credit, as they will mifreprefent yoi
and abufe you in all companies and upon all occal
Ons; fo that this abominable unhappy connedlio
terminates but with your deftnuftion, To efcap
this embarraffment, you riiuft cautioufly avoi
petty brothels, and houfes frequented by the low
clafs of whores, bullies, fetters, 8cc. and ihuil a
converfe with fuch kind of men.
B U L .t I E S . ‘
'J'HESE are lewd blultering fellows, who havifl
rendered themfelves unfit, by a compliestio
of vicious adlions, for the fociety of fober ration
perfons, are forced to throw tbfemfelves upon baw<
and whores, and live upon their contributioi
Their rendezvous is among bawds and whorei
they eat their bread, and fight their battles; be6ti
and infult their cullies, gather fometimes' the!
contribution, and occafionfy pimp, betray and fe
If you unhappily fall into converfe with theu
they generally entertain you w'v'On s
lation ofthe murders arid tapes they have comx
cd, the battles they have tou^cn. ''fc'&vthe.cS
• night, the rencounters they have had with a
of bailiffs and their followers, or forne luch
□tic lies and forgeries^ If they can palm
tuff upon you for truth, it is much if they
you not into a quarrel, orfome other fcrape,
hen by a bafe ftratagein bring themfelves off,
fcave you to fhift for yourfelf. The main
jth pf a bully’s valour and'proweft depends
hi$ infolence, ignorance, and oaths; and if
inch iuffle him effectually, fo that he may
ive you know both his bufinefs and temper,
II fawn upon yoii afterwards like a fpaniel,
'Oil may life him at yoii pleafure^ If yoti
threaten to chaftife his infolence, he'll tell
pethaps, that he has a battle to anfwer for,
herefore iSat prefent redrafted from fighting,
'hen that obligation cfeafes; woe be to you«
fume none of my country friends will think
. converfable objeCt,- who for all hiS coward-
id ignorance, and though he is fo below the
Rer pf a man, can betray ybu into ¿amingj
els, into a bawdy-houfe, and into the com-
of rogues, thieves, and whores, as well as
ittieft (harper, or {touted fpark of the towm
:s are of two degrees: thofe who hover about
telong to petty brothels, and thofe who live
^whores of fafhion. The former are made
Ffp introduce country-men or ftrangers into
liaree with the extortionate demands of the
i and Whores. If, after you have regaled
elf with a filthy ftrumpet, and their poifpti-
quor, you call to pay, and finding they have
charged exorbitantly, fcruple their account,
>
r two of tbefe gentlemen vu \Jca
{ 25 )
room, and advife you to make.no diftufl
there, but pun&ually pay vrhat you know yoi
both called for and received, otherwife they
proceed to compulfive means; if you then
ply not, they will not only force from you
property, but tumble you out neck and heels
probably do you much- hurt.
Thofe bullies who live upon whores of fel
affect the drefs and airs of men of rank and
turn, and-by ftrutting occaiionally-by the fi<
a gay hdy, add a conference to her and t
felves, and induce the ignorant cully to
that mil's confers her favours on gentlemen <
and that htr cannot therefore-dream of a f
from her without an adequate return, whic
proportion to her fplencfid appearance, me
eonfid'erable. They alfo frequently call in b
pointnwent, when the lady has- a cully with
in order to trepan him to cards, and by that n
fend1him away- fleeced of his money. V«
are the fnares they lay for the ignorant and-u
rv, but thofe who are warned of them- in
plain manner, it ia to* be hoped, will be at
deteil, and refolute enough to Hum- them.
K r I D - L A Y E R S.
TN this cheat there are always two or three
pert concerned ?and it is generally pradif
nignt. One gpeff on1one- fidfc of the-ffreet
other on- the other;- and if they meet a- ebu
man witli a portmanteau, box, or bundle, th
low him until he refts it. One of them then
np to him, and fays, Eli give you a (hilli
carry this latter to that houfe, becaufe I d<
care to go myfelf, but do not ftays m th e i
time they pike oft with-the. booty. A i'h
( *6 ) '
«at q« the way, one of them will go ap to. hit*
audaflc him where he is going, and if unacquaint>>
«d with the trick, will gain from him certain intel­
ligence. He then informs his partner, who, he*
ing genteely <
dceiled, goes forward to the Jjpufe,
and- having left his hat with a .comrade, comes
from the door juft as-the countryman arrives, and
cries, what made you ftay fo long? then takes the
things from him, and bids him go over the way
to that honfe or tavern for fome beer, or a bottle
of wipe, aod fays, bring change for a guinea, or-
'I cannot pay you; while the perfon is gone over,
the things are brujbed, that is, carried off,to thp
'great furprife of the bearer.
If they fee a .countryman with a bundle afking
the way, they will accompany him, pretend to
lire# him, and carry tire bundle or box for him ;
*ndwhilft one takes the perfoo forward, the other
gives them the drop, down fome yard or ,all$v,
Uving previously agreed where to meet again with
thebooty .; fothe poor ignorant jnan is left in the
lurch,
D U F F E R S .
'jpUCSE Tons of rapine generally ply in public
places, and their ufual method of proceedr
ingis as follows: When they fee a novice or coun­
tryman pafljng, they beckon to t)im, apd, if he
'tiileiis, inform him, that tliey have various foreign
commodities to difpofe of at lefs than half price,
hatas they are ¿rut},, privacy is requifite, and they
®uft therefore beg the favour of him to ftep with
himto a plape convenient for the purpofef If the
cheat fucceeds thus far, the granger is coY>dx\&eA.
through fome hive, alley, or -bye-path, Vo aw <3^-.
•itreceraer provided for theif deli^n.
( *7 )
( =« )
is entered, And the Duffer begins to bring
commodities, in comes an accomplice, as pi
ed on the fame errand, and to carry on th
fion, cheapens and pretends to purchafe di
articles. Their cargo chiefly conflits of ha
chiefs; filk and cotton itockings, remnants
{ilk, 8«c.: which being flolen, picked up i
fair, or elfe bad of the kind, and therefore
jit t çheâp rate, they impofe frequently
novice as foreign, and thereby extort fro
treble the value. If fufpe&ing the cheat
tardy, and by his behaviour indicates an
tingftefs to deal, they begin to bounce an.
to wonder at his impudence in bringing
thus for to the lofs of their time, and per
good cuftomer, for nothing. If this prevail
threaten, which generally forces the intin
ftrangèr to deal for fomething ; if he féi
change, he feldom fees h'is money again)
they always lead him to intricate holes and
Can feldom get him redrefs, In ihort, if the
trepan an ignorant perfon into their clutchi
rare if he cfçapes without much còli or vile
Thefe, bèing defcribed, will be fhunn
turning a deaf ear to their felicitations.'
M O C K - A U C T I O N S ,
A UCTIONS, or Yelling goods of any ki
‘ advance to the highest bidder, are in g
dehifive, and feldom ahfwei the end of th
chafer, as he frequently obtains his commi
at an exorbitant rate. • , . .
The crédulîty, vanity, and ambition of
kind promtéd their institution, tò fùbOetx
piirpofes o f th'òfe whò inatte a. trade ot \N
?
o f others. If .the beft are fe\àotà îrée ^
vice», whait muft we fay of thofe we are about to
flefcnbe? a more palpable delufion prevails not in
London, that feat of fraud. I term them Mock-
Auctions, becanfe they are deceits throughout,
their advertifem.ents fet forth the lale of perfons
that never exifted, and owners that never poffeff-
isd fn.ch property, Thefe aiuflioneers.are gene­
rally fellows who have forfworn honour ami mo-
flefty ^ and being reduced to a crifis of fortune,
devife this bafe expedient for a living.
Having taken a petty {hop, they bring together
-their flock of goods, which, for the inpft pait are
faulty: they then employ three or four infamous
S
uffers of each fex. Thefe puffers are luch as.
tey find neceflary to promo;e trade on two ac­
counts, both affe&ing to purchafe, and thereby
Simulating iirangers to bid, and alfo by advanc­
ing, prevent many commododities from going off
under a certain flipulated fum.
Preparations thus made, up mounts Mr. Ora­
tor, and" the cheat begins by putting up part of
his {lock.
He harangues, perhaps, on the excellency of a
ilver watch made by an eminent hand, and piit
|P at the fmall rate of only two pounds ten (nil-,
ings,
To carry on the device, and attract the notice
f paffengers, the watch is handed'round the com-
^ny.,-tho’ confifting of puffers alone ; one bids,
pother advances; aud the bufinefs is carried on
ith great fpirit..
When the buille has brought in a few dangers,;
^d they find a novice difpofed to hie’, t\\e^ cvo.-
oufly avoid dallying when a snoutb vs
ari.
( »9 )
s
In like manner they proceed in other lefped«,.
and as their commodities are ever defective in fotte
point or other, and they employ the meaneft hirer
tings to delude the ignorant to bid their, utmoft
value, and often much more, they cannot fail of
deceiving all, who, through inexperience, are al­
lured to become purchasers at fo fraudulent 9
market.
• Many novices and countrymen have thocght
they have bought bargainsof this rabble; but time
as (bon convinced them of a palpable deluj(ion>
If my country friends, in the courie of a vifit to
London, are difpofed to pyrchafe any eotnmodir
ties it affords; I would advife jtlijet» to repair to
the fair tradefman, who icoms to to avail himfelf
of their inexperience, and will treat them on th.e
fame terms as the moil failful in the articles for
which they deal; they will (hun fraud, and enjoy
a future fatisfailion, in having expended ilifi*
money on a valuable acquifition,
W H O R E S and J I L T S ,
CO m^oy are the inftances of mifery, eonfequer»-'
on affociating with abandoned 'women, thto-J
few in the kingdom are ignorant that fuch depra-:
y.ty *
*incident to human nature, and produdjjtiv'-s
of fuch fatal effecls; It may thence, perhaps, bto
deemed needlefs to divert your attention fronal
shore important fubje&s by enlarging on this«»
But when we refleit that notwithftandiug the ge­
neral warning, fuch .is the impetuofity of youth­
ful pa(Eon, and fuch the chicanries of the vici­
ous, that not only the inexperienced countrymen,
but a iztty who have long relided wv town,
fo il viftims to the fam e; this ftibyeSV
( 30 )
d^ims particular regard, and defervfe -the mtfft
minute and elaborate difeuflion.
To treat of thefe with perfpicuity, it will be
Heceifary to range them into divers clafles, in
doing which I Unall invert the common method,
and begin with the Hackney-Strumpet, and then
proceed gradually to the whore of iafhion, refer­
ring at the fame time, particularly to thofe who
come under the denomination of jilts.
By the Hackney Strumpet, I mean the loweft
clafs of whores, who having been always accus­
tomed to low life, or elfe through extravagance,
the defcrtion of former charms, or other incidents,
»educed, to penury, and therefore ply in the com­
mon ftreets, and eudeavour to haul men by force
to their difguftful embraces.'
Thefe are a miferable compound of whatever
can naufeate and pall, loft to every fcnfe of fhairev
and, for the fake of bread, devoted to-every flagi­
tious purpofe, that heated luft can pollibly incite-
As their neceffity compels them to proftitute
their c?rcafes for the fmalleft confideiation, and t*
the very reptiles of the earth ; they aie Scarcely
ever free from a compilation of all the loathfome
difeafes incident to human nature, and are, in fine,
a mafs hideous even in the conception, and rather
antidotes than incentives to venery.
Tbe next elafe are! thofe who live in petty bro­
thels, and itried particularly the Strand, Fleet-
ftre.ee, Lndgate-hill,-Scc. Thefe arc little better
than the former, and differ chiefly in drefs, be­
ing arrayed in the paltry habit of the infamous
bawd, whofe flaves they aTc, and by whom they
are generally attended, left, as
( 3i >
fhouhl pipe off with the dudds, or carry the ¿til
ly, from their (hop of iniquity.'
As the former, they,' for the benefit of ab in
famous hod or hofiefs, fubdiit to ail that ¿an dif
grace their fex; or ihock a modeil ear,’ as well a
:
poifon their health by gorging themfelves with
pefliferons liquors. .
When they allure a perfon to their baneful refi-
dence, they endeavour, by plying him with thé
very dregs of drink, to deprive him of reafon, in
order to perpetrate their fraudulent defigns.
This done, he is wrought from one degree of
paillon to another, till he becomes a paffive dupé
to his doxy, who takes care to avail herfelf of thé
opportunity, by making as* profitable a cully of
him as poifible.
Thus he lofes his money, injures his health by
drinking the moil pernicious liquors, and may
think himfelf lucky, if he efcapes naufeous dis­
tempers.
The next clafs we (hall mention are thofè Whô
•refide, as they term it, in private lodgings, buf
in reality, only a genteeler fort of bawdy-houfefc
Among thofe we include thofe bagnio ladies, who
alfo wear the bawd’s apparel: but as the bawds
are of fuperior rank to the former, fo are the
whores in point of appearance and company.
Thefe rank of doxies frequent the park, the
play, jelly houfes, W—tli—by’s, &
tc. all of which
, we fhail fpeak hereafter. They are moftiy in­
debted for their tawdry habit to a woman who fur-
nifli ladies with fuits according to their value, at
îo much per fuit per day, alifo with occasional
Watches and trinkets.
Thefe are devoured by landlords* lervanVs* «t
( 3* )
%
favourite fellows, who hating induftry, and loft to
mH fenfe of honour, meanly live upon the contri­
bution of UBfdrtunate women.
In reality, they are as miferable as the former,
and obliged often to fubmit to as odious means of
procuring money.
If 'they can feduee a ftranger, they inlinuate to
bins their fuperiority to the common clafs of wo­
men of the town, the expence of their lodging,
fend genteel appearance, and thence, infer their
title to a much more confiderable gratuity for a
favour done him.
If you affociate with thefe through {he alnre-
aient of a filk gown, you will be more liable-to
wxpences, and equally to difeafes with the former.
The whore of falhion is generally the refufe of
a man of rank or fortune, who being left in toler­
able plight as to the cloaths and money, fupports
an appearance of grandeur, reiides in a gay part
of the town, and referves herfelf, for thofe alone
Who are capable of amply retaliating her favours.
She has generally a train of followers, is a
mighty toaft amoBgft the red coat gentry, her con­
vene is therefore claimed, as an inftance of tafte
and good breeding.
Her fnares are more bewithing than any of the
Former, as her embraces are certainly more eligi-
>ie, and confequently create a ftrong dtlire of
epeating them.
As the fmalfeft of her favours is not difpenfed
vithoat a confiderable acknowledgment, to keep
>p her acquaintance, in a fliort courfe of which,
b many incidental expences will occur, as require
a ample fortune.
... . . ■ i
< 33 )
titany country gentlemen owe their ruin t
Unfortunate connexion with thefe firft rate «he
who having difttieinhered their eftates, and
paired their conditutions, have only to lament
rtfidue of their lives, their want of knowledg
elude the art, or rcfolation to avoid the temp
on of thefe banes of their future peace of .mil
The J IL T , though a little more private
defigning, is as lewd and diflelute* and more <
gercus than either of the former. They woul<
counted, forfooth virtuous and religious whe
who defpife common creatures, and ailed: tob
at a fmutty joke.
By a demure look and oily tongue, they v
upon the credulous, who, if they obtain the fn
eft favour* rate it as an extraordinary conque!
If they vouebfafe to’become your occafi
bedfellow* they mutt have a handfome fettletr
elegaot lodgings, plate, china, and all things
able to a woman of rank. On thefe confide
ons ihe will he faithful to you, or at lead pro
fo to be; but her fidelity will laft no longer
you can or will maintain her in her extravasa
with which the obligation on her part will be
to fail. She can pray, cant, (hed crocodile t
(ham a fit as a token of her affe&ion for you,
in your abfence will ridicule you to her fav
man, as a foolifh, or impotent fellow, and a
him that as foon as fhe can perfuade you o
the fettlement, and the new furniture, flic wi
front and .hen leave you.
Sometimes fhe will pretend to pregnancy,
then natural afie&ion mud induce you to car
roar.littte one,, and allow the tuovVi«
for a lying in woman.
( 34 )
She Will remind you that Lord A ■■
■ *s, Sir
John B - “ -*
8 and colonel D—
—
—
*s Miffcs lay-
. in, with as much ftate as the bed lady in the king­
dom; nay Mr. F—, that, is but an ordinary cui-
. zen, prefented his midrefs with a new bed, and
. the furniture of a room, which cod him near two
hundred pounds. Alter this parade, Ihe will in-
■fiuuate, that her merit being equal to that of the
; bed, (he has a right to demand the fame ufage,
; and therefore will treat aoy paltry offers with the
contempt they deferve. Nay, (he will carry her
effrontery fo far, as to tell you, that as cafes itand
between you and her, you ought to cut off the
*, entail of your edate, and fettle a good part of it
- 1npon her for life, and from her 40 devolve upon
the child.
3 The tricks and devices of a jilt are number-
•' ids, and can only be paralelled by their ingrati-
* tudeand inhumanity. Nothihg can be more per-
r- (¡¡lions than tbefe creatures, who after a profuiion
j: favours, on the lead remiflhefs, will grow rude
*
- andinfolent, laugh at, revile, a n d fcorn you, and
‘ yonwill become no lefs their buffoon now, than
* youhad been their bubble before.
' ■
To fum up her character, we may, with truth
(aflert, that in a jilt are comprehended all the vices,
lollies,■and impertinence* of the whole fcx.
Having thus gone thr» Uih a biirf, but we hope
$i&urefque difplay of thofe chataftars. which, from
■
th
e nature of their.fraudulent purlunr, are more
immediately injurious to the male pan of our coun­
ty friends, we proceed to thofe. which will require
;usto give a caution to both, and \>auk.\iU\bj dae.
* (hall mention. ~
{ 35 )
( 36 )
B A W D S .
BAWD is a creature infamous and def
utC beyond delcription, a «retch, who b
loft to all fenfe of modefty and humanity, is <
ble of any a&ion bafe and injurious as it tna
to fociety, to leave her own infamous purp
Thefe ladies generally keep feraglios of their <
the entrances to which are conftantly graced
three or four painted harlots, that are read
. feize the unwary who pafs by them. If they
any ways trepan the inexperienced into‘their <
as they term it, (and rather than fail, they
haul you in) you mult then call for your bottl
bowl, after which a fmutty toaft is given to
quaint you with the nature of their occupaj
Soon after, in conies the governefs in a pretet
rage, that the gentleman is not (hewn into a
ter room, and fnatching up the candle, defires
to follow, and ihe’ll light you up herfelf.
When they hare got you up flairs, they
elude you are fixt: five or fix of her choice whe
therefore, are let 1'oofe to play upon you at t
diferetion. If by any lewd difeourfe or behavi
they can entice you into debauchery, the i
thing is, which of the ladies you pitch upon,
the terms. There’s Mifs Jenny is but juft c<
out of the country, and there being little di
ence between her and a maidenhead, her ft;
.terms are .ten .{hillings, befides a crown for the
of the room. Mifs Fanny, a good clean girl,
as harmlefs as a lamb, may be allowed at tl
half crowns, a rate ihe never went under. !
Betfy, Mifs Nancy, and Iweet Mils Sukey, art
three found and a¿live gitl»*, trad
rs dead and money is fcarce, and you look a civil
gentleman, and the bawd would encourage you to
come again, they (hall either of them divert you
for a crown, allowing another for the room, as
ufual.
With this edifying language, the old miftrefs of
iniquity entertains her gucils, whilit her ravenous
nymphs are devouring his fubftance in a beaitly
manner, and larding their dilcourfe with horrid
oaths and bhtfphemies.
. From this defcriptioo my country reader mud be
feqfible, that fuch wretches are more to be avoid­
ed than a peft-boufe, being in every refpe& as
contagious.
A P R O C U R E S S .
A S thefe monfters in iniquity are more particu-
larly the bane oi the fair-fex, I fliall, for the
fake of the boneft country girl, whofe lot it may
be to come up to town, prefent an account of a ■
notorious one as verbally related to me by way of
letter.
Dear Couiin,
OUR pious aunt has frequently warned us of
the dangers to which we muft be inevitable expofed
in this town. I have been convinced of the truth
of her reprefcatation, by an accident which threat­
ened my utter ruin, and from which I efcaped in
an extraordinary manner} the circumilance was
its follows:
Returning from a vifit to a relation, 1 was
overtaken in Cheap-hde by an elderly woman of
Creditable appearance, who having accgfted me ia
.# civil manner, alkcd, if I did uo\ corns.
( 37 )
to feek fome genteel place. Upon ray replyii
thac 1 di.i, (he informed me of a vacancy, whi<
file was certain would prove agreeable, and i
which, as die liked ray appearance, ihe wou!
recommend me. '
I exprefled my acknowledgment, took dire&
ons, and immediately inquired for a certain lac
near Soho. When 1 entered the houfe, 1 w;
ilicwn into an elegant parlour, where I had nt
long fat, before (he gentlewomaa .came in, I
whom having prefented my recommendation, 1
1
feemed well pleafed, and ordered a fervant 1
bring in a bowl of warm liquor, .called negu
confiding of wine, water, orange, &c. which ft
laid, was for fome friends ihe expr&cd ihortlj
but as 2 was warm with walking, ddired me i
drink fome of it, .telling me it was an innocen
pleafant liquor, and that file always ufed her wai
ing maids as herfelf. Pleafed with her condefcei
lion, and being warm and thirfty, I dranjt pi eti
freely. She then made me lit down by her, aflu
ing me of her averfion to pride; and that wh<
. lhe#
had no company, Ihe would always treat me i
like manner, if 1 behaved well. She then inquire
concerning wages, and was-fatisfied with my fir
propoial, Affairs thus fettled, J rofe up to tali
my leave, telling her I would wait on her any da
sh<* enfuing week, and bring mycloaths with rn<
Upon this I was not a little fiirprifed to find ht
snfifi: on my Haying that night, as her own mai
was gone away, and ftis hiid invited fevcral ladi<
to fpend the evening with her. Mindful of m
aunt's advice, I peremptorily refufed, and coul
- perceive di/piea.'un in her countenance, when H
i
ground me refohed. She again p\ied. me
( 3* )
which began to turn my head, and disorder my
ftomach. I entreated once more to depjrt. on
proinife of returning immediately, which cauferl
• my new miftrefs with fullen voice to declare, I
fiiould on no account itir out of the houfe; and
leaving the room in a pet, took the kty, in my
bearing out of the door. This circuinftanre greatly
alarmed me, and in the mean time a beautiful girt
entered the parlour, elegantly dreiled, and every
; W
aygenteel. Having gazed on me for fome time
: withfolemn aftoniihment, (he rofe from the chair,
) bolted the door, and breaking into a flood of tears,
i tbuiexprefleJ herfelf:
“ Dear young woman,
I cannot make you fenfible of the pain I feel
onyour account; and from a defire to ferve you,
I run the hazard of involving myfelf in greater
mifery, if it be poflible, than I have yet experi­
enced. But my heart will not fuffer me to draw
others into the (ante fnare with myfelf. You are
sowjo a notorious brothel! and if youefcapenot
>
oafew hours, you are inevitably ruined !-~L was
ooceas innocent as now you l'eem to be; my vir-
1 toe was unfpotted, and my mind as uncorrupted,
»hen I firft entered tbefe accurfed doors, whither
1was lent on an errand for the fame caufe that
brought you to them I was by force detained all
Bight, as you are defigned to be, robbed of my
rittue, and fearing the difpleafure of n:y friend',
for (laying without their knowledge, as well as
bring in the utmoft confufioo how to proceed, t
W
as obliged to repeat my guilt, and had hardly
. timeto reflefl on its fatal confequences. My liber-
ity I imploredin vain, and my gtirf ietvector
' *BcUport o f ail around me.
C 39 )
fo long confined, that I am afliamed to app
.among my friend? and acquaintance. In this dre
fui fituation I have been perplexed with difgufl
importunities every day from different men. T]
in ihameiul round of guilt and horror have I ]
gered out ten months, fuhjed to inconceiya
miferies. The fame fate awaits you; howev
as my wretchednefs Will fcarce admit of additif
I will affift you in what I can, and not, as the
famous procurefs, contribute to make you
unhappy as myfelf.
You may imagine the horror with which this I
relation ftruck me ; I was dnmb for iome tin
trembling every joint : but, recovering a litt
I thanked' the unhappy fair, and earneftly crav
the profered aififtante. The lucky moment fo
arrived, when a gentleman coming to the do«
(he ftepped up herfelf for the key, which the u
fufpeding procurefs gave her ; I took the opport
nity to run out of the houfe in fuch a hurry, tfe
I left my cloak and bonnet behind me.
I am afioTed you rejoice with me for my delive
ance ; and defire you would take an opportnni
of making it public, that others warned by t:
unhappy fare of the injured innocent, may gua;
aeamft the wiles of our own fex, as well at the
of the other.
I am your's, affeftionately,
, M. D;
The chief places of refort for thefe vileft
their fex, are the play-honfes, fome coffee-houf
and public places. They aflame various form
and are capable of atting divers parts; 6om
times they have the molt -¿shelve <
worldfor you, at other tunw a ta&yram «
s
( 40 )
lore of about fourteen, a perfed pattern of inno­
cence and modefty, and a pure virgin; befides (he
has one that fings like an angel, another that
dances to a miracle, a third that has an incom­
parable (hape and mien, and a fourth that is an
abfolute wit, and the only diverting companion of
her whole fe$.
In (hort, (he has them, or at lead pretends (he
ha them, of all forts and prices, from a guinea
tofive, and from five to a hundred; but let me
dure you, that if you deal with her for any, you
have better luck than mod men, if it does not
. prove a dear bargain on the making up of your
account
It is unaccountable to think, when they hear
of a fine woman, what (trange contrivances and
devices, what projedh and defigns they lay to get
Intoher company, and corrupt her. The delud­
ing and ruining both men and women, is their
wholebufinefc and occupation, nay, not only their
: ova, but the employ of feveral agents and faftors.
Thefe ate a fort of mercenary wretches, who haunt
thctown to try what game of either (ex they can
&d; and if they chance to make their fet upon a
country gentleman or ftranger, they will never for-
lake the haunt, till the miftrcfs find fome means or
other to entangle them. Country girls, to avoid
[ their fnares, mud turn a deaf car to any who may
i accoft them ia the (Ireet, or any place whatever.
! They fhould likewife be particularly careful to
! whom and where they apply for places of fervi-
tode, recommendation, &c. as likewife into the
charade»of thole to whom they are recommended.
F
( 4* )
X
W A G G O N rfU N T E K S f.
TH
Einfamous device contained in this title fr 1
pra&ifed by both iexes, in various manner^
and from different motives. There are always*
number of defpicable Hirelings, in the fervice of
bawds and procureffes, who attend at inns, to oh
ferve the number and (late of the paffengers, im
*
mediately on their arrival in the country waggon*.
IF they fix on a perfon, efpecially of the female
fex; whom they think fit for their bafe purpofe*,
they make it their bufinefs to watch her motion*}
and if they find, her difpofed to tarry at the inn,
ihfinuate themfelves into converfe with her, and if
poffible gain fome intelligtncerelating to her future
proceedings.
If they fucceed in the firft point, it furniihet
them with an opportunity of contraAing an ac­
quaintance with the poor country girl, and next
of offering their fervice to get her employ. The1
fraud is generally carried on by woiben, who are
capable of all the arts cf infinuation, as well as
perpetrating the bafeff defigns under a tnaik of
the mod difinterefted friendship. They will warn
the unfuipe&ing innocent of the dangers to .which
they are expofed in a ftrange town, and offer their
couiifel and dire&ioii from a pretended motive of
good will.
If their hypocrify prevails, and their proffered
fervice is accepted, then they recommend the poor
girl to fome infamous patronefs of iniquity, and
proffitution and mifery too frequently enfue.
I remember an inftance of an unhappy fair, w&o'
loil her virtue, and commenced' her deftru&ioi*
the very ¿ay of her arrival in Oas cnSnaxva^ \ovra»
( 4
*
2 )
y
la.-«
lie
me
n a
fes
WTi
COC
of
par
per
fire
fell
on
t h t
all
She had hardly alighted, when (he was accofted
by one of thefe fedqcers, under a pretence of
having feen her before in the country. The girt
expreffed her furprize, but the,1’
ole abettor of for­
nication perilled in claiming a knowledge of hei;,
and infilled on her taking a lodging and a bit of
mutton with her, till (he could .proyide herfelf
agreeably to her own mind. Tbe'girl ft'Hl expref-
fes much wonder at her, but being at length
wrought on by importunity, enforced by fome cro­
codile tears, which (he called forth as a teftimony
of her fincerity, accepted the kind offer, and de­
parted from the inn, under the guidance cgf tbn^
pernicious condu&refs.
As they were palling together through the
ftreets, by her vile hypocrify, Ihe infinuated her*
felf into the confidence of the girl, who, relying
on her friendihip, cheerfully followed her, till
they arrived at the deffruclive habitation, in an
alley adjoining to Bow lane. On their entrance
(he informed two young women, whom (he had
kept in bondage fome time, of the extraordinary
:ircumllance of her meeting with her couotry
friend, and of the pleafure (he had in being able
to entertain her till (he could change her refideace,
in a manner fuitable to her defigU of coming to
town.
Through fear of incurring the difpleafure of
the old caterpillar, the deceit is carried on, till .the
approach of bight, when a grave citizen enters in
eonfequence of notice fent him by thebawd, who
then informs the girl, that (he has procured her a
wealthy hufband, that the nuptials ihaH be (hortly
eonfummated, fo that the fame bed tnvj W A x
Jcassv
'ipththafi night.
i 43 5
The aftonifliment of the deluded fair on
occafion, is inconceivable; (he fell on her ki
let fall a flood of tears, and in the moil moi
accents, begged the liberty to depart.
' The hardened mifcreant, unafie&ed by
fcene of woe, plainly told her, that all refill;
was vain; for that though ihc contradifted her i
intereft, it was the duty-of a friend, who k
what courfe would bell tend thereunto, to con
her to profecute the fame.
She then repeated her importunity to dcp
which being again denied, ihe begged that
aflPair might be poilponed ; but all proved t
vailable. ihe was forced into the embraces of
lafcivious fpoiler of her virtue, but happily,
opt long furvive its fatal lofs.
There is a leries of male Waggon-hunt
whofe motives are purely to gratify their libidic
defires,
Thefe are generally debilitated fellows, v
tired of the proftitutes of the town, are font
afrefli countiy girl, from whom they have no i
fon to expeft injury; but much to apprehend
moil heightened degree of pleafure.
They walk feveral miles out of London, I
rowly obferving the paffengers of every wagj
they meet or overtake. If they lee a girl t
attra&s their fancy, they fee the driver, mo
and feat themfeives by the obje£t of their del
They then ule every deluding art they are ma
of, and fometimes prevail, to the ruin of the
experienced, unfufprdiog creatures, who ad
them.to a liberty, which they have reafon torep
the remainder of their lives.
( 44 )
INTELLIGENCE OFFICE.
R.E is not a more palpable fraud impeded
on the town, than that praftifed by molt of
■CCS.
y are generally carried on by perfonswhOlly
:e, or thofe of ruined fortunes and cha-
, whofe only recommendation, is a toler-
oat, a powdered wig, and a confummatc
*Y- . ,
ir windows are always filled with fictitious
in order to make a parade of-bufinels to
1 the unwary for intelligence-,
your entrance the book is opened, your
aferted, your (hilling paid, and you become
idate for a place of co&fiderable profit ac-
; to your capacity; or, if a mailer, (land
to a good fervant. If you are defirous of
money on an eftate, or any kind of goods,
ill help you to a coger, who (hall advance
dy at a trifling intereft and moderate pre*
In fhort, they will affift you in thediipofal
incumbrance of eftate or cffic&s, in the*
nteel and expeditious manner.
live by bubbling mailers and fervaots,
ing to do that for you which they never de-
and promifing that, which they are certain
3 never effeft. Country people, for want
aintance in town, have often been made a
thefe voracious animals, after dancing aU
; on them every day for feveral months to-
making a thoufand applications in vain,.
ig fooled out of fome pounds. -
tefe offices are attended with more deftruc-
fts. They hate often been
t 4
-5 )
«lie Pimp, Bawd, and Procurers, wbo hare re-
forted to them, .to fee what goods came in, and i
hear where a pretty country girl was to be found, ;
by means of the Rcgifler. It might with eafe be -
proved, that fonie of thefe gentry have been m i
fee with the pimping profeffio», and that many in­
nocent girl.-, owe their ruin to t-heir combined fraud.
Country people of neither fex can with reafon
propofe to themf: Ives any advantagefrom applying
to thofe offices, where they are liable, if cennefi-
ed with them, to be bubbled, cajoled, «id tre­
panned.
FORTUNE-TELLERS.
•J ’HESE gentry, by dim of aitrology, impiotuflf
pretend to prefcience or knowledge of future
events. With refped to aflronomical predi&ions,
we have had abundant proofs of their .verifica­
tion ; but every fobcr thinking man nauft be con­
vinced of the abfurdity, as well as .prefumptionof
a fhorufighted mortal's claiming a certain know-'
ledge of what fhall befal any individual, in tthe
courfe of a traniitory and uncertain life.
Such is the credulity of mankind in general^
that many live in this as well as in other countries,
by abfurdly amufing the curiofny of Ignorant
men and filly women.
In the country, the myfierious art is profeffed
and pra&ifed by gipfies, «id many have daily re-
courfe to their all-exploring faculty.
In town, the fupriiing myftery is arrogated by
a few noted profeiTors, whole houfes are as mnch
crouded on particular ,occafions as a courtier’s op
a levee day.
Thither repair a croud of £wain$,
< 46 )
fo be. allured concerning tbe afFe&iong of theif
'^reethearts ; thither flock a train of youthful
virgins to learn their future deftiny ; thither flies
the lofer ro recover darling property, and thither
the fend mother to know the fifuation of an ab->
fcnt child.
In fliort, to thefe repofitories of fate daily re­
pair the credulous, the inquifitive, the defpond-
:ibg, and'the doubtful.
Oh their entrance,- they are (hewn into a room
let apart for the reception of the cuftomers, as
but one at a time can be admitted into the Sanflttm
.Sandorum, where fits this prodigy of fcience.
When yon are admitted to an interview, you firfl:
Compliment him with a prefent; which, if yon
defire minute information, mull: be in proportion
to the importance of the event, and your anxiety
concerning it.- With folemn afpeft he demands
the fubjeft, and matter of your enquiry; whic htold
him, he paufes feme time, then- aflis you many
ctrcumftanflial queftions, and after another paufe,
teveals the important fecret, and diftnifles the cre­
dulous.enquirer, with the air of a' mod profound
philofopher.
The minds of thefe perfons are, doubtlefs, af-
fefted according to the prédirions of Mr. Infalli­
ble; which mull certainly have air influence ott
their future conduéL Many have been fo elated
by aflurance of future fuccefs, that, 'grown indo-
Bent in their flattons of life, they have lofl the
Very means of living.
Others, deprelfed by ill-fated prédirions, have
fbnk into delpair, and negle&edthe covatanucan*.
écras a i their rank and ftation.
( 47 )
At a proof of human credulity.. I (hall prei
reader with a lingular in(lance of dextent)
tiled with at lingular fuccels in the black art
A young gentleman falling in love wi
daughter of a wealthy merchant, but heir
prived of the confummation of it, throuf
ditagreement of their refpeftire parents, w
hit travels, and among other places went to
burgh,, where he happened to be in the coi
of a gentleman, who fpeaking of his broi
London, faid he was lately married to the t
ter of Mr. A----------, a merchant ip that cit
The* gentleman hearing a name mem
which was the lame with that of his forme
trefs’s lather, enquired where the perlon wi
lately married lived, and being certified <
name and place of abode, failed for Euglai
firft opportunity. On his arrival in Londt
went to the houle according to the dire&ions
him at Hamburgh, and enquiring for the {
man, found that he was in the country, and
not return that night. He then enquired fi
lady (whom be well knew, tbo’ (he remetr
not him, being much altered by the cutting
hair, and marks of the fmall pox) and prete
to have letters of recommendation from be
band's brother at Hamburgh, defired to t
renamed as afervant. The lady replied, th
hufband being abfent, (he could not give 1
decifive anfwer, but as he had a letter froi
brother-in-law, he Ihould be welcome to a n
lodging in the houle«
He embraced her offer with much ap|
checrfulncfs, and immedvaiely cntetcA
( 4» )
be Iid y pretended indifpofition, was for going
i b ed , in ord er to h u rry him aw ay fupperlefs,
hich he obferving, defired a little beer. W h en
ic m aid was gone to fetch it, he had leifure to
o k ab o u t, and efpied, am ongft o th er th in g s, a
oth laid in an am ple m an n er, as if for fom e ban*
jet, from W hence concluding th a t this prepara*
on could n o t be for the n ext day, b u t th at fom e
:rfon was to com e in h er h u ib an d ’s abfence to
» tak e o f the d a in tie s; h e determ ined to w atch
«ir m otions. N ow it proved according to. his
rmife,. this entertainm ent b eing provided fo r th e
gale o f a gallant w ho had m ade an aflignation fo r
latriig h t.
He acyrdingly came at the appointed hour, and
as received with marks of the mod end aring
:fpe<$. This caufed the firft lover to regtet his
ird fate; neverthelefs, he relolred to know the
rent of the affair. v '*
They had no fooner fat down to theii' regale«
an a knocking was' heard at the dcior> and the.
aid difcovered it to be her mafter. This put them
to fuels a confternation, that had fhe not been a
Oman of ready invention and extraordinary pre­
ace of mind, they muft have, been dete&ed; but
rutting her lpark, the provifion, tables, bottles,
id all into an adjoining clofet, fhe betook herfelf
her couch with her prayer book in her hand.
Her huiband entering, thought himfelf happy
a wife who was conftantly at her prayers, and
Id her, after fome little difeourfe, that he was
ring to Gravefend, to give orders about the lad*
J of a fhip, but had beard that fhe had fallen
ton to the Nore, and coming off Ve.
C 49 )
( $ * > }
thft hungry ahd msft hate foraething to foppef.
Mis virtuous wife told him, that he being abroad,
flie had prepared nothing.
The Granger now took atf opportunity to (be#
himfelf, and being demanded by the matter wha
he was, the lady informed him, that he was oae
who had tetters of recommendation to be a fervaal
from her brother-in-law at Hamburgh. The oil
Don then aiked him bis qualification*. .
I have (replied the other) been bfed a fcholar,
. and taken Tome degrees at the wniverfity; I cut
yrrite a good hand, and under(tend accounts welk
befide* which, during my refidehce at Oxford, 1
fpent fume time m the ftudy of magic, or the black
art, fot Which 1 was expelled. I can.,perform
fotrtething wonderful, yet without danger j I can
difcover private enemies, reveal robberies, help
right owners to goods ftolen or lott, and to (hips
becalmed procure a wind, that (halt bring them to
their defired port. I witti then, faid the old gen*
tieman, you could procure me a fopper to-ftigbf,
for nty appetite is very keen. With this wifii he
promrfed to comply, and the lady, (earing the d&
covery of the intrigue, oppofed it violently, tHt
rile Sham-conjurer, affaTed her by a private fig«,
(hat he would preferve her honour inviolate, (be'
eonfented, upon condition, that (he (houkl hart
nothing to terrify her.
Our magician then began his incantation, Jfi*
phvrbus / Mepborbus! Mepborbus$ thrice have t
invoked thee my familiar, be thou now at&ftaqt'
to my defires, fupply whatever a hungry appetite
Requires.
After nytkiog the twelve fifgus on. the
and muttering, iome unlnxe\^^Ae n
paufed, and flood as if lifteniag to an invisible
fpeaker; then told him that they might fall to and
eat heartily of the meat that was provided for them^
which ftood upon the table ready furofthedin inch
a clofet. When the mafter of the houfe had ap­
pealed bis hunger, he deftred to be informed, by
what means all this provilion was brought into thy
clofet, as he heard no aoife. Sir* fays the con­
juror, *twas done by a familiar that I have couv-
Btand of, and you mail fee him if you'pieafe. By
all means, fays the other, that i may thank him,
for I would, according to the old proverb, Giuf
the Devilbisdue; upon which the ftranger renewed
his invocations, thus Mepborbusf that lutkeft here,
put on human fhape, appear vifible to our eyev
and come forth in the likenefs of a fine well drc&
fed gentleman, fuch as may p.leafe this lady.
Upon this the young gallant catne forth, and the
4oor being opened for him, be pafled through the
room, making a'bow, and went into the ftrecjt...
Thus the pretended conjuror came cfiP with
applaufe on all fides. Th% mafter of the boqfie
was obliged to him for procuring an elegant repaft
at a time he wanted it; the lady for getting rid qf
her gallant, and the gallant for fetch a favourable
(Opportunity of escaping from her huiband.
Whether this relation be true or fabulous, it is
as well authenticated, as the present faculty» to
which our modern fortune-tellers pretend, notr
suithftanding, through the credulity and folly of
mankind, fuch infamous cheats are prote&ed and
encouraged.
As a further detection of thefe vile uwp&eaa*
l fa ll cite a particular inftauce, wbttciuNibe« vto*
trdjtjr appears.jaoft glaring,
C 5* )
There now lives in this town a famous w
ife
man, who is a great pretender to the art of for­
tune telling, and has acquired fuch reputation:
among the lower clafs of people, that he has for­
ty or fifty fools to attend hith every morning;
fome women to know when they (hall be married;
fume married women, whofe buibahds are at fea;
or in foreign plantations, to know if he can give
them any tidings concerning their (hte and circuit-
fiances; fome perfons to know whether they (hall
be profperous in their marriage, voyage, or bufi-
nefs in hand, and others about fiolen goods and.
the like. An ingenious married lady having heard
much of Mr. Telhruth’s name, refolved to be de­
termined whether his prefer,fions were well founds
ed, or his followers were fools. She accordingly
applied to the oracle, and on her approach to the
chair of infallibility, told him, in a fubmifflve
manner, that ihe dt fired to be informed When pro­
vidence would blefs her with a huiband: Having
examined her phyfiognomy, the piophet told her,
the man was yet unknown to her, who, would cer<
tainly marry her within a few weeks, by whom fix
fliould have three children, then bury him an(
marry a fecond time foon after, very much to be
advantage and faiisfaftion, and ihould live happ;
with him to a great age.
The lady then remonftrating with the impoito
bn his fallacy, and declaring'that (he. had had
huiband nine years, he deiired to fee. her has
once more; upon a review of which he cried,
was miftaken, for I now find thou haft a hufbanc
but be is inch a very fmall one, that I can wit
much difficulty difeem his figmhca.uow.vcv
Happening to guefs Tight _\u '
( 5» )
Jady buvfl into laughter, and being well pleafed
with the cunning of the cheat, went away con­
firmed in her opinion,, that there was' nothing in
his pretended Ikill, hut mere guefs and fubtlety.
A country gentleman, drartgely infatuated with
an opinion of adrology, had recourfe to this fa­
mous planet juggler, and refolved to venture feme
money in the lottery, gave him a guinea to aifign
J)im a lucky hour for that purpofe.
After the impollor had jumbled together a par­
cel of figures to amaze th-_ quered, he fixed on a
certain' time, wherein he ihould be fohuhate..
The gentlem’
an; purfuant to the dar-groper*s di­
rections, bought a ticket, which coming up an
hundred pounds, he presented the old fox with
ten'guineas^ and defired he would mention auother
•dajHii which again he might be fortunate.
' ‘ The bait Was greedily fwallowed, and the day
¡fixed, on which the gentleman purchafed ten tick­
ets, biit to his mortification, they all cafñe up
flank's, arid his only recouife was, to gó back and
curfe the philofaphcr, and his mifguiding .ftars.
' There lived a few years ago in the.county of
Surry, a famous adrofager, who, to deceive peo­
ple, had feveral bells placed in a dudy above dairs,
the ropes of which hung down a wall* of a dark
dzir-cafe; one fignifying lod flieep, another clothes
dolen off'the hedge, another dray'd or dolen
horfes, which were'the chief things about which
the country people repaired to him.
A butcher having l®d fomé ibeép, went to the
adrploger’s-houfe, and having acquainted the fer-
vant with the nature of his biifinefs, the dieep-betl
was tinkleé, típon which the Aofiox
put on his fur-cap,' and cobjutyu^,
( 53 )
He immediately addrefled hiqafclf to the butt*
dier with How now Friend, I’ll warrant you have:
loft foroe {beep, and you want me 10 give you -
tidings of them, Yes, noble do&or, fays tbe
naan. Come, (ays the doctor, walk into my par­
lour, and I will give you fatisfa&ion, T^e but­
cher followed, and happened'to have a dog with •
,
him, which crept qnobferved under one of the
chairs; the fervant, according to cuftom, had
drafted himfelf up in a bull’s hide, waiting for his
fumtnons to appear, Tbis'giveo he made his ap, j
pearance, and the dog being of the true .breed, j
feized the doctor’s ailiftant, and tpade him roar oat
like the beaft he reprefented. The conjuror in a
great pallion, cried out, take off your dog, you
rogue, take off your dog. The butche? having
difcovered the cheat, replied. Not 1, by my troth,
do&or, 1 know he’s as good as ever run, let them
fight fair, doctor, if you’ll venture your devil, PH
venture my dog. The dodtor at length was glad
to pay the man for his Qieep, to prevent a further
difcovery of his notorious frauds.
In Ihort, a train of mifadventures have attend­
ed this diabolical cheatv and many live to ¡rue theif
credulous regard to it.
I would therefore particularly admoniih my
country friends, to contemn fuch arrogant pr«r
tenders to an attribute of the deity; to banifti all
idle and groundlefs fuggeftions, and profecutinj*
the paths of honour and virtue, leave other cort
cerns to aa unerring providence.
PRETEN DEP-FRIENDS.
jDEFORE I lay $pen to my country readers the
J J fraud which often lies hid, in feigned
Com to frieadQiip, it will be ueeeSarj x.o tetoVoe
< 54 )
vni general properties of a knave or falfe friend»
tot they may be upon their guard, and avoidtheit
uileful infinuationsw
Though fome are of opinion that a knave may
ie known by his looks, and that the countenance
t an index to the m ind; there are hypocrites, who
ave art enough to manage their very faces, fo as
o indicate the drifted honefty, or profound flu­
idity, A knave 1 would diftinguim from a filfe
fiend, by observing, that thofe he wrongs are noi
uch as he profefles a friendlhip for; but he prac-
ifes upon all whom chance throws in his way;
rhereas a treacherous friend, after the molt folemn .
iroteftations, and ftrongeft obligations, breaks
hrough every bond, and evidently difeoven a
leant of confidence,. honour, and common honefty ;
R
e as much exceeds a knave in the attrocioufnefs
bf his ccnduft, as perjury and treachery are more
injurious than a common cheat. Meei pretention*
tofriendship are a combination of fraud and deceit
tf every kind, as well as the produce of the mean-
ift cowardice; for, as by their difguife they obvi-
tte the fufpicion of the open-hearted generous
«an, they frequently ftab him in the dark, with
refpeft to charaiier or property.
In ihort, in point of drift morality, they differ
aot*from the murderer, for though they evade the
totter of the law, they are guilty of violating every
facredtie, that can conneft the intereft of man­
kind, or promote focial happinefs.
Various are the methods which thefe pretenders
Jttwfce to infiouate themfelves with the ignorant,
w thegfeneeons.
’^They "havegenerally a confummate ,
arfSnftairon o f modefry, arc&cauaiiusae. ■
a
( 55 )
f
variety of looks to fubferve different purpol
They often feign an exceflive regard ¿>r the :
terell of another, who no fooner follows their i
re&ion, than fatal .experience convinces him
his own credulity, and the perfidy of a pretend
friend. ' %
■
In the., former eourfe of my life, being una
quainted with the treachery of mankind, llifieu
to the fmooth addrefs, warm proteftations, ar
fanguine counfel of one of this {lamp, and b
coming remarkably intimate with him,» made hii
acquainted with the particulars of. my circuit
fiances, referred to his opinion in all cafes of in
«-portance, anal at length entered into the clofe
cxtnne&ion with him. As an indolent difpofitio
induced him to prey upon the unwary, my littl
property was foon exhaufted, and my pretende
friend not only treated me with the vileft abuf<
but had well nigh entangled! me in a labyrintl
out of which I could never have extricated myfel
S W I N D L E R S .
, y l l S E like faihion is for ever fluctuating in ¡1
m odes, a ftale villainy becom es obfolete, ah<
is fup p iied by fom e en o rm ity o f a m ore nioderi
d a te ; it is therefore neceffary for th e informatioi
o f th e public, and to cau tio n th e u nw ary, to trao
it through its varieties, aYtd expofe ev ery attroci
ous in v en tio n in its p ro p er colours, as its beinj
n e w m ay m ake it fuccefsful, its being expofed ma;
p rev e n t th e m ifehief.
Swindling and th e Mace are th e new eft m othod
o f deceiving, and d efrau d in g th e incautious, an
in th e ir various form s th e m oft reigning m ode c
modern knavery: to pra& ife tVvefe a\\* \V \ \ w ece
fary to create th e ih a tn ap p eaian ce. o£
( J6 )
£ fubflance, in order to become mailers of the
&ua< property of the negligent, ignorant, or un-
vUTy tradefman.
•There are lifually a number of Swindlers con-
nefted together ; they hire a genteel houfe; one
appears as mailer, others as clerks; and fome as
menial fervants. They order all kinds of goods,
gaming credit from their apparent opulence, and
as foon as they are delivered, fell them for ready
money at perhaps 5 0 per cent» under prime coil,
to' fome tradefmen who are mean enough to en­
courage fuch wretches. An old provefb fays, with-
ntt a receiver-there could be nothief- And without
fuch tradefmen there could be no fwindler. How­
ever-among the Jews there is always a certain re-
ceptable for the fpoils obtained by every kind df
villainy. . ‘ *
• In the country they make ufe of forged bankers
checks, properly filled, and apparantly good; atid
•intown they ufually offer payment in promifTary
-notes, indorfed on the back with feveral names,
which make them appear extremely refpe&able,
by fuch impofitions, not only obtain goods,
but even ready money in exchange.
' Biit*the moll artful deception of. the fwindlers,
*ndtfhat the public ought to be more particular­
ly cautioned againft, is what is called goiug upon
the mace-, that is, anfwering advertifements in-
ferted in the public papers by tradefmen, who up­
on fome particular emeigency have an immediate
occafion to borrow money. The fwindlers trace
•out an object, of this kind, appear as gentlemen,
•feem to be poflefied of many valuable papers, pre­
pretend great humanity, and promife to raife the
•-( 57 )
money diredUy, provided the tradefman wil
liis note of hand payable in a prescribed i
the neceffitous and deluded peifon imtncd
complies and gives his note very readily; o
the fwindlers takes it and affures him tiiat h
be back within an hours time with the fum i
<ite. The tradefman waits impatiently, but n<
fees nor hears him again, nor indeed of his
till it becomes due, for the fwindler repairs
it in triumph to his companions. Now theft
tiles who cxift upon the ruin of families,
commit the molt attrocious villainies, prete
be confcientioufly Scrupulous with refpedt tc
jury, and therefore in order to avoid this c
which is their only bugbear, one of the fratei
in the fight of two others, as witnifies, fell
goods, it matters not of what kind, to the h
ler who has the tradefman’s note; the good
paid for with the note, and a trifle of chan]
ven: as foon as the note is due, the poor trade
'is arrefied upon it; if he gives bail, and trie
adtion, the perfon who arretted him fwears th
gave value for the note, the two confederate!
roborate his 'evidence, and the poor tradefnr
call and obliged to pay the debt with ecfts of
If trade is dead, juid no fu¡table advertife
Appears, the fwindlers themfelv.es advertife, f
times to borrow money, when they contm
fpecioas appearances to inveigle the lender c
his mOpey upon the note of the fwindler,
feema to have occafion to borrow if, and the
rity of two confederates* who appear in refj
ble ch«Hra<fters; when the note becomes due
feeurlties are not to be found, not
drajKr
ec-&etthef, . but if the lender Qaau\.dvra.<
< 4» )
out and arreft him, his comrades bail him* which
is called buck-bail, to wait the ifliie of a trial, but
at the time, neither principal or bad arp to bp
heard of. •
The gang of fwindlers are composed chiefly of
. Jews, fome Frenchmen and Germans. They;
Sometimes aflume titles, or at lead appear as ca- .
pital merchants, always wear the. face of bufinefs,
and give themfelves many consequential; airs, ’
However, they may be eafily obferved by the eye
of observation by over-a&ing their parts, for they
always are in a great hurry, appear to bC over-'
whelmed with bufinefs, and make a great parade
of feeming fubftantial perfons, frequently pulling
out their pocket-books* as if accidentally, ana
and difplay a great number of fi&itious bank notes;
they often vary the fubje# of their difcourfe, antf
always, keep their eyes fixed upon lire ejes of the
tradefman, or perfon they intend to impofe upon*
bafiHik-iike, to circumfcribe his attention, that
they may with the greater eafe deceive and deft-
roy him. ‘
G O S S I P S .
"THIS is the laft of the pernicious characters we
propol^d to. difplay to the view of our readers,
as of. injurious tendency to alt who are influenced
by them.
Tho’ at firft view thefe may appear harmlefe
and inoffenfive, yet their difpofition muft divert
them from thofe purfuits oh which depends their
jpoft important intereft.
Gofflps I confider as referring to the female fex,
aftd would underftand by the term, perfons, who,
through habit or inclination* ate addt&eA.
pgti&l chit-chat; and, therefore,. Yao«
C 59 )
moire of their neighbour’s concern? than their ow
Converfe with Goflips al'ays encourages
fpiri; of detra&ion, cherifhes envy, and fume;
animofities.
Goflips of all ranks, from my lady to Moll t
.kitchen ma’
.d, delights in idle ftòries, lying repor
and defamatory accufations.
They are led by their pradice to lie, negle
fheir dut), and fquander their time. Which co:
fequence will inevitably render the rich defpic
ble, and the poor deftitute ; and every confiderà
perfon knows, to what trying temptation penui
reduces, when charaders are ftained, or reput
tion loft. •
J mention this foible of tittle-tattle, efpeciall
as it abounds in this town, and has, to my certa
knowledge, been an infuperable obftacle to tl
preferment of many country girls, who havii
imbibed it by example, have acquired fuch qua
ties as have proved their difgrace if not ruin, ai
have incurred them tlie disapprobation of the w
and good. Shun 'therefore, all converfation w:
goflips, becaufe “ evil communication corni;
good manners.
c 6
o )
(renerai Remarks on the preferii State and Conditi
o f the Town, interfperfed w ith admonitions
Perfons o f both Sexes.
L QNDON has been juftly defcribed as a wor
by itfelf, in which we m-y difçover me
hew countries, and furprifihg Gngularities, th:
in all the univerfe befides.
It w ay ju ftly be compared to a Ioni
ivild beafts, whpye tbqufands rangp about at a ven­
ture, are. equally f^vage, and mutually deftrudive
pne to another.
It abounds with hurry and impertinents, fcram-
blings aud updertniijiqgs, villainies, cheats, and
impoftprs.
Survey it from the court Jo the dunghill, yob
will fee molt of its inhabitants appear in mafic;
even at noon day, affeding to bp pufy in the fer-
vice of fotiety, but bafely fubferviqg thpir own
pallions, a? if deceit was virtup. ;
Its Very pomp, the innumerable equipages,
end fplendid retinue we fee in every cprnpr, afr
ford but a melancholy token of an upiverfal po­
verty, and the difmal profped of crouds of mife-
jrable people, either tortured with the agonies of
jtheir own guilt and follies, groaning under the
wants of the neceiTaries of life, mad or infatuated
by oppreifion, or defperate from ap urgent fenfç
p f irretrievable Ioffes fuilained in confidence, re­
putation, or poverty.
In fliort, if one grand idea could contain a jpft
j-eprefentatjon pf dhe motley tribe, which daiily
exhibits in this fcene of adion, wé could not enr
jertain it without confufion and aftonifhme.it.
Here are dil played a pérfed draiba of human life ;
and a juft portrait of human nature, and a ftrik-
ing picture of men and things.
The court i? an epitome of this city, as well as
the world, and abounds with glaring inftances'of
the lawlefs fway of pride, ambition and avarice.
Tfre avenues leading to it ate agreeable to the
profped, and all enninate in the fame point, ho­
nour and felf-intereft.
At £rft view, thé énd îecms
( )
but experien.ee will prove, that before any c;
rive at the defirei gaol, jnany by-paths m
crofted, many intricate mazes explored,
convisions of right and wrong ftjfled, and
arts invented andpra&ifed.
At Weftminfter-hall you may hear hideous
plaints for want .of money and bufinefs,
'harangue to little purpofe, ¡effrontery and
getting the better of modefty and good fenfe
dignified rogues opprefling the helplefs but h
Obferve the fticklers for religion, and yo
find them inveterately bating, uncharitably
furing each other, and almoft every pait den
ing anathemas on the reft.
If we lead the countryman from one f<
a&ion to another, it will excite at once his .1
fity and furprize When he beholds the r,ev
robe of autliority, he will be difpofeft tp h<
the wearer ; but, when he finds it to be a far
for iniquity, it will incur hi« contempt.
The Park is famous for being the rende
of the gay and gallant, who aftèmble there I
and tp be feen, to cenfure and to he cenfi
the ladies to ihew their finery and the fru
touch pains taken at the tiolet, and beaux t
pofe tbeir fopperies, obferve the .beauties,
qx on a toaft for the approaching evening. I
one' here is curious in examining thofe who
and moft are malicious as well as cenforious.
In this place of general concourfe peoplet
join in the company of tbofe whom they e
ha^e or deride, for company is not fought
for the benefit of conversation, but joined t
quire a degree of confidence, and efcvboldw
ions agahiû thé common leftri&iom of vY
ve.
They talk chiefly to be taken notice of by thoffe
who pafs by them, for which reafon they rattfe
their voices, that thofe who know them, may
not meet without a bow en pajjunt. Here ladies
walk four Or five miles in a morning with all the
alacrity imaginable, who at home think it an in-
fupportablc fatigue tojourney from one end of their
chamber to another. You may obflrve a beafc
wconnoitering the Mall, as much divided in mind
asa lady in a lace chamber, determining what
company (lie fliould join, and to avoid the fatal
choice, ufe as much precaution as a prudent pa­
tent would do in the difpofal of a daughter in
marriage:
A plain lrijh lord (hall lead half a dozen laced
_coats up and down during his pleafure; and ano­
ther time be as much negleded as an honeft man in
dfftrefs, upon a fight of a ribbon, though every
ribbon bears attia&ion according to its colour.
The Park is likewife a refort for ufurers, who
ply there in queft of young fpehd-tbrifts, with
whom they deal in the cent, per cent, way, and
many of whom they eafe of the third part of their
eftate by the time it comes into their poffeifion.
Here aic alfo to be feen a number of tawdry
mifles, who are ambling up and down in queft of
a cully, a dinner, and a crown; at well as many
fharpers, lying in wait for a fool of fortune, of an
inexperienced countryman. In ihort, the Mall
exhibits a motley fcene of vanity, folly, and kna­
very; though it may afford recreation and imr
provement to the ftranger of either fex, provided
theyare' fufficiently guarded againil its fnares and
intrigues.
i would aJm oaiih the country
( 63 )
of frequenting that or any other place of ptibi
refort in this town, without proper company. '
I’he play-houfe under regulation, is a place!
rational entlrta lunent, .aid pleating inlitu&ioi
much of which is oil through the fel-interefl«
compliance of the managers, w.th the vitiate
tafte of the town ; 'I call it vitiated, bet aufe pei
pie in general delight either in the repieientatio
of obfcenity, or nonfenGcal operas, farces, &
<
which tend to corrupt and enervate the mindsc
the rifing generation.'
Here the indolent loll away their precious tin«
.the critic comes to indulge his vanity, the (harpc
to trepan, the courtezan to-allure and decay, th
. bawd and procurers to feduce, and beaux and belli
to fee, be feen, and mutually captivate.
In this epitome of the vorld, are four claffes
the firft is compofed of perfo'ns of quality, at*
are feated in the boxes; though fools and imper
tineuts too often intrude amongft them. The fe
cond clafs, whofe province is the pit, conGih o
citizens and their ladies, wits and critics, lharper
and courtezans; the third rank occupies the mid
die gallery, and is compofed of mechanics, am
the middling degree of people; the fourth and laf
Comprehend the refufe of the town, and is the .ea
of noife, impertinence, and confufion.
There are nightly in the play-lioufes, both i
the pit and middle gallery, a number of jiltin
whores, ready to feduce any perfon who has th
leaft appearance of a ftranger. When fuch-a or
¡¿feated, one of thefe ladies comes up to hi*
wRh a kind of formal impudence, and Gxes he
|§ C a s ' near him as poflibie, then begins for*
jUjpcrtineut prate to draw Vim unto
.( 64 )
/
ith hér. I f iiie finds a min fit for her turn,
lidoâ trué ’fqirii'e, with a.fubtle and infinuating
ivility, th e t eaves him a little;» perhaps, to ac-
üaint fomfc hanger-on, that ihe has a bubble in
)w; fome proper measures are then refolved on,
od ihe returns, and will be fure.to fiiclc by him
).the end bf ihe-play,'by frequently forcing her
ifcourfe to him,- ând contradüpga kind of. fami-
arity with him. ’When the entertainment is over,
iè will take cafe to march .out with him,; aqd by
» way contrive to let.hint have a glifapfe at lier
tinted face.
If this prevails not, and he ftiîl feems infenfi-
le of her defign, (he comes to clofe parley, and
efires to know which way he goes, which always
ire to be hers. Here Ihe takes ocCa/ipn to infi-
uatfe, that if he will call a coach, and fet her
3wn, the will give him a caft apothernighu
If this fucceeds, the bufinefs is half done} and
D
iVihe has got him to herfelf,. the begins to ca­
fe ând flatter, to commend his good nature and
vility-, but* above all, the kindnefs oi taking
t into his.coach ; ■
in confideration pf which, if
?Will do her the favour to go home with her to
t lodgings, ihe will do her. beft to make him
nendi'».’ '• >
When he arrivées there, fhe will fift him to
ow his circumftances, character in life, Sec,
ibh, if they anfwer her expectation, flie affeits
be fb captivated with his deportment, that he
ift nfefeds'dine with her to-morrow, and thus
!train iy effectually laid, and he is generally
en in for both.
( 6 5 )
I
The bawd and procnrefs alfb frequentl)
wait here for the Unwary of both fexes, am
rious are the arts which they pra&ife, to the u
of the one, and the rum of the other.
There are alfo a fet of male decoyen io
fceneot allurement, wbofe buGrtefs it is'to im
the ftrahger or countryman 'into definitive f
One of th'efe officious fellows will find
occafion to accoft him, and after a little com
as they feidom want confidence and inapud
and (land litt’e upon forms and ceremonies,
afk him after the play, to accompany him t<
tavern, and drink to the health of an hone!)
tleman of his country, whom he either kno
■has heard of. If he can wheedle him thitbei
. firft bufinefs is to make him drunk, draw him
gaming, and then rob him of his money.
Various alfo are the traps laid for the i
pe&ed fair in this enchanted place;' to
which, I advife my country readers of both
not to be immoderately fond of pleafuies
never tb ufe them without confidering their d
and the company of difcreet experienced fri
London cofifee-houfescomprehend a vaft v;
of charaiiers, and are frequented by good«
’ idle, and infignificant perfons.
Heie yon may find the man of bufiuef®
philofopnei, the critic, the beau, the (harper
the fpubger; fome tranfadrag their comm
concerns fome ruminating, fome difpt
their logical talents, fome lolling between
and (lumber, fome looking out Tor their
ami fome, by their vacant •\mV\ci.UT
emotion atalL
( 66. )
Frequently the coffee-houfes in the different
I parts of the towny «HI afford a ftranger a very
I good notion of the inhabitants in general, as well
L 99 a ftriking difplay of the different character* in
[ it ; and if he is on his guard, will not prove in
: theleaft, detrimental to him.
i So various are the avocations of this town, and
lb different the times of attending them, that
chère are feme houfes of entertainment open all
wçbt as well as day ; in order, according to their
u/original defigm, to accommodate tbofe, whofe
H calfiogs oblige them to attend at the earl¡eft hours.
But, as cuftoms degenerate in time, fo thefe
are likewife rendered fubfcrvicot to bale purpefes
and fraudulent dcftgns.
Thefe houfes are moftly frequented by loofe
diforderly fellows, who ply there in queft of per­
fect either intoxicated with liquor, or ignorant of
the town, in order to trepan them by various
artifice» into meafures, beneficial to the fedacer,
and deftru&ivc to the (educed. Nothing is more
common, than for perfons, after they have fuf-
feted themfelves to be detained beyond their ufual
hour of departure, to betake themfelves to one of
thefe kind of houfes, where they will find a cum­
ber of chairmen, coachmen, and others, the ic-
-fufe of mankind, together with feme of the fame
plight as themfelves. It is extraordinary, if pre­
tence is not found to quarrel, tfpecially with one
who feems to be a countryman, imlds you will
comply with their exorbitant demands, either in
gaming, drinking, or fpending your money la-
vifhly on them j in fuch cafes, the ftranger never
ftjJb of being foiled ; for if the cannot conquer
( 6 8 )
' • . * . • . .
him by dint of manhood, they will) by number
If you chance (as it is very probable) to fall aflcej
you mayexptffcto awake without your hat, watfi
money, ,&c. ahdit will be very difficult for.yo
to obtain indemnity for .property loft in fo ptyqji
cous a company.* . .[>
. ■.
In moft of thepafiages and!avenues leading t
tbefe night houfes, you..wilLbe..a&codcd by -tn
mod miferable ot all whores, who are either o
eluded a lodging, through wantoupefs. or poverty
if yon comply not-with their defire, they wjUri
vile yoli -
f and if you relent their abnie, it is muc
if you $fcape the rigorous..difeipline of fome a
tendant bullies; whereas cotripliaoce will aimo
certainly be attended 'with the mod pernicioi
confluence*.
To avoid thefe diladers, the dranger fhoul
regularly and pun&qally comply with the fora
and hours of thehoqfe in which he relides, wht
in town. .
Among the red of the many diverfipns aa
amufements contrived by the ingenious and n
ceflitous, to entertain the rich,, the fortunate, at
the foolilh; beiides, plays, operas, pantomime
cat’s operas, puppet, ihews, &c. there has be<
pra&ifed amonglt us a piece of old French galla
try called a mafquerade, an inditution, where
the mod abandoned may indulge the excefs of Iu
ury and lafcivioufiiefs, and wallow in the extras
gance of concupifcence.
To the honour of the prefent day, this ext
vagance of vice has been rather difcotintcnanc
than encouraged of late; but a$ it fofnetitnes
allowed under the difgutieA ux\e oi aw a{Jem
om experience, I am affured of its bane,
rpce, efpecially *oñ ftrangers; I think it
ut on. me, to txhibit a concife view of the
Iorder to excite the averfion of the rea-
in amufetnent,fo repugnant to the laws of
nd virtue,
in my youthful days with the many extra-
'éprefentaiions I had heard of this motley
refolved to be no longer ignorant of adi-
Which had been, honoured, as fame're-
by the pretence’of the.greatcil quality,
ngly I communicated my intentions to a
fen companions, and prevailed upon them
:ipate with me in the fame expetiiive folly,
certain night we took coach in the city,
>ur back on the honeft part of the town,
ri$d away tP the Ipng defired feene of
ig? according to cuftorn,' transformed our-
one of the ihops appointed for the pot­
to luch fort of uncouth figures, as might
m a.level with the whimfical mortals with
se were about to mix; pptwitbftanding our
to the aficmbly houfe, we thought proper
1 ourfclves into fedan chairs, to avoid the
if .the rabble, whowere'gathered in great
5 on important occafions. ‘
n we arrived at Cupid's new elyfiiim, and
Ted through a lane of foldiers; inffead of
loney, we produced pur printed tickets,
by parting with a piece at a time, carried
ugh three examiner's offices,' till we were
:ed by the mailer of the ceremonies into a
ill.
, ( 69 )
I cow began to look about me with as muck
furprize, as a countryman under the dome of St.
Paul's, being fnrrounded with fuch a- variety of
objcâs, as at once perplexed my very eyes.
Having araufed mvfelf awhHe with the-glitter*
ing pomp, and aftoniihing variety that furrouoded
me, I could not forbear thinking that ail thé vices
and follies in the uaiverfe, were here proanfcn*
tjufly huddled together.
Being at length reconciled to the many Rightful
appearances that were fanntering to and fro te
entertain each other, with an inexpreffible dhrerfity
of pa&eboard frees, old play-houfe robes, and
other fantaftica! difguifes j I began t<
o examine
particulars, and fix in my memory every occur*
ranee that might deferve public notice*
Purfuant to my defign, 1 took feveral turns,
the whole length of the grand aifembty room,
which was crouded with a vail variety of uncouth
mortals and appeared on the whole as a medfey of
all nations, ages, and profellions.
While the more Uprightly par* of the motley af.
fembly were diverting thctnfelve» with ¿halting
their ncels, others were Handing as fpeftators to
delight their eyes with the fine cuts and capers the
young gentleman, and the agility and deportment
of the nimble-footed ladies, who tried every art
and device to win hearts,
After feveral ihort confabulations with the fair-
fex, in Various forms, and on various fdbje&t, J
began to amufe my curiofity, with the nntnberlcfe
throng of fpe&ators that Were buzzing about me,
and found carried into ptz&ice every Ftantic ip-
( 7° )
nation, that could render human nature contemp-
ibly -ludicrous.
They are mfact together, kings and peafants,
rid and young, faints and daemons, the grave and
the gay, gbolU and living forms, and all cbara&ers
dnt could compofe a jumble of diverfities.
Thus variegated, they fallied forth in great
numbers into the hazard-room; I followed, and
beheld them purfuing their pail'nrte with the ur-
naoil decorum; the winners refraining from all
exiatic tranfports, and the lofers from frantic ex-
jdamations; no noifewas heard but the chinking
of gold, the rattling of dice, and the (lamping pf
the bote.
From the gameftet’s apartment, I eroded the
grand affembly room, to fome more private con­
veniences on the eight hand, where contenting
lovers retired out of the croud to confirm their
sffignations. I had no. focmer entered upon tbefe
premifes, than I found the feats all occupied by
the mod amorous part of both feces. Here all
the languiihing pollutes, alluring whifpers, and
engaging airs, that could poilible kindle the fire of
in the coldeil bread, were modeftly exercifed.
From thence I moved forward till l came to an
Pnrtment, wh.re all forts of rich drams and cor­
a l s were plentifully difpenfed to both fexes, by
'fe e or four female undet-ftrappers, wbofe foie
'ifinefs was to give their vigilant attendance on
his particular occafion.
Hither the trading part of the female quality
epair to (barpen their wits, elate their drooping
pints, and reader themfelves more acceptable
( 7* )
companions to fuch unfortunate cullies, as;
happen to engage with them. ,
Being rather averfe to didilled liquors*
dally at fecond hand, l. removed my qus
and retired' through the croud , into one. c
boxes, where I might fit at eafe, behold t
fembly at a distance, and ruminate upon th
cellent ufe, and public benefit of this mod
ous convention, where all degrees of pe
either had or might have recouife to play th
•without the danger of being’known, an<
difhonour of being expofed in fome public i
papen
Here 1gnfced a confiderable time with alt«
•tage and tranfport, till.upon a fignal given a
-tipper end of the room, mod of the compan
nillied in &minute, and tberfpacious place (
•ception W
ats left empty. ,
1 inquired ,fhe caule of this fudden defa
and the perfon, to whom I applied, perceivii
my quefiions, I was. a ilranger to the cudoi
this honourable.affembly, told,pie, that they,
all under ground at prefent, ahd bufily. enf
in regaling themfefvea.
Advancing to the upper ehd of the room
•nofe "was faluted with the fmeli- of various dai:
but l could not yet difeover from whence
fumes, arofp, till looking narrowly about in
length in an- obfeure, corner, on the right 1
I found a deep pair of dair$, .that defeende
mod perpendicularly to-afubtetancaft cave, w
as l entered, I was environed-by a,pack of
tnprants, contending for the faired dainties
nature could produoe. As the taw m vm ev
( 72 )
y inadequate to the numerous aflcmbly, withe
ch difficulty I procured a Efficiency to appeafe
keennefs of my appetite, and retired into one
the boxes, where I happened to find a lady
cb troubled with the hick-up, having made too
e with claret and citron-water ; I began to ad-
ailler what verbal comfort I could to a diftret
.lady in her daggering condition ; at firit fhe
med coy, but I loon made her break through
r diflembled modedy, and put on her natural
oper, as well as her fituation would admit.
After feme incoherent difeourfe with her, I in-
ired her name and lodging, made her fair pro-
fes, and a handfome apology for not waiting on
r-home, and fo returned into the crowd in qued
my companions, whom I foon found, being all
cmyfelf, well cloyed with their entertainment.
By this time, which was about five in the morn*
5, the mufic was ftlcnced, the dancing given
er, the company dull, and the lovers eager to
joy fool's paradife ; fo that, with the red of my
DtpaniOns, I took a final leave of this expenfive
:C
c of mummery, with increafed concern for
* prevalence of vice and folly in my native
antry.
Fromfuch aflemblies as thefe, I would diffuade
readers of both fexes, as they tend to give the
ids of youth a wrong bias, and divert them
iti the paths of moral and facial virtue,
ks the ctiriofity o f country perfons is naturally
ited by the various things that prefent them­
es in this town, and as many of them may be .
i both with amufement and improvements Co
r are other feenes at which hé tax«vot\s^ pxe.-
" K
( 73 )
Tent, without incurring much danger, if not fot
taining great lofs both in pocket and cooftitutioB.
Covent Garden, and its purlieus, have many'
fnares, which often intice the inexperienced heated ■
youth to his deftru&ion; and therefore fiiould be
entered with great caution and circumfpeCiion.
Here are a vaft variety of allurements, fiich as
tav&us, bagnios, jclly-boufes, and lodging-honfes,
fome adapted to the purpofe of afOgnatton, and
others to that of the ccnfummation of amorous
defires.
The jeily-boufes have, within thefe few years,
bt-en rciorted to by ladies of pleafure, who ply
there as cattle at a market, or fervants at a ftatnte
hall, where you may repair and choofe fuch goods
as belt luit your taftc. Thofe who frequent thefe
houfes have certainly loft that (hame and delicacy
which are the ornaments of the fair fex, as well ,
as contracted the moft bare*faced effrontery, be*
ing capable of expoling themfelves to the lewd
embraces of an abfolute (hanger for a trifling
confidention. They are likewife the refort of idle
fellows, who meanly live on the contribution qf
proftituted wretches, and are therefore bound to
appear there, in order to afieri their caufe, and
fight iheir battles.
In ihort, every fobtr perfon, who regards bis i
intereft or character, will avoid fuch places as are
mod frequented by perfons of indolent difpofiti*
ons, and tainted morals, and are in the higheft
fenfe d-Vogatorv to his honour, fubveriive of his
happinefs, and repugnant to his intereft.
From thefe houfes, the female «wvn, w&d
abandoned as well as deluded Sottow«*,
adjourn to other feeues of
4
( 74 )
is a nightly rendezvous of whites, pimps, fend«
oners, bullies, and cullies.
The bufy fcene generally opens about midnight,
and clofes about four in the morning. Here are
difeharged vollies of oaths and execrations, rib­
aldry and nonfenfe, blalphemy and obfeenity ; all.
that can ihock a modeft ear, offend a ferious mind,^
or difguft a rational obferver, is pra&ifed withoup^',
remorfe, refpetft of perfons or fex, or refpeft to
the fuperiority of the human to the brutal creation.
As the landlords of fuch houfes cannot but be
feippofed to have loft all fenfe of honour and juf-
tice, the gueft cannot reafonably expert fair treat­
ment or good liquor \ and indeed, as their view
of frequenting them proceeds from different caufes,
they are generally carelefs about the quality or
quantity of what they gorge, to the deftruftion of
their health, and the profit of the moft abandoned
if mankind.
The unguarded youth not only injures his con- -
ilitution, through means of intemperance, by fre*
quenting inch houfes, butalfotoo often contrails
uch acquaintance, as prove an eternal barrier to
lis future fucceis.
1 have an intimate friend who lives a melancholy
woof of the truth of this remark, arid dates his
uin from the very day he entered one of thefe
¡□chanting but deitru&ive places.
He was the only ion of an indulgent mother,
mt after a good education at fchool, being ap-
ircnticed by his guardian, to a menial trade, lie
bought proper to rclinquilh that, and apply to
cademical Itudies, to qualify him for a more i:n*
ortaat flation in life.
( 75 )
Thefe he profecuted with- fuccefs fome years,
during which he lived happy in hirafelf, refpe&ed
by • is friends, and endeared to a fond parent.
At length, on the clofe of a fummer’s evening,
he chanced to pals through the flrand, and ob-
fcrved a vail ingrefs and egrel's of divers of each ■
fex, at a certain houfe, his curiofity prompted
him to enter.
Here he beheld a motley tribe of beings, with
various countenances, geftures, and employs»
Some inflamed with liquor, were denouncing
horrid judgment on themlelvcs and others; fume
iimncrfe m fcnfelefs ftupidity appeared as beings
without rr flectionj fome were encountering with
the inoll profligate whores, in the mod indecent
difcou>fe, and others makiog allignations for amor*
ons dailiance.
Thv fe ftrangc fchemes induced him to fit down,
call for his bowl, and ftay to the full extent of his
ufual time from his lodging
In a. few days, urged by the fame fatal curio«'
fity, he repaired to the fame fatal houfe, where an
•unhappy female attrailed his notice, and capti*
vated his mind.
Determined however to maintain his reputation,
{he in Yain attempted to allure him to her embra«
ces feveral nights after each other; being not only
fenfible of the fufpicion he fhould incur, but alfo
of the danger inevitably refulting from fuch inter«
courie with a proflitute.
Neverthelels he kept up a correfpondeoce, vi-
fited her at her apartments, and came once or
twice a week in quell of her to thu bovs&. ^ v
be was tied to an hour, and thtteSote *csv
tu/t thefe feenes w hich now becam e a^tceaJcta xcs,
him, he began to repine at his iituation in life,
which laid fucli redraint on his conduit, and deter*
mined to allow himfelf a greater fcopeof pleafure.
He was then on the approach to a pretty fortune'
bequeathed him by an indudrious father, who
died in his infancy, and he therefore began to ic«
^ dulge the profped of enhanced pleafure without
redriltiou.
As reforting to fuch places commonly produce
intemperance, he frequently went home much dif-
guifed in liquor, which was at length reported to
his worthy patron, who font for, gently reproved
and difmiiled him, with an aflurance, that on pro-
mife of reformation, pail conduit ihould be buried
in oblivion.
This generous behaviour determined him to
abandon that part of the town, which (rad already
proved fo injurious to his character; and he again
purfued his dudy with renewed alacrity.
But alas ! the impetuoiity of paffion, and alure-
ments of vice foon conquered the refolutions of
reafon and virtue, and my unfortunate friend re«
turned to his former courfj.
His old companions in debauchery welcomed
him on his arrival, laughed at his fooliih deference
to his friends, and took every means to attach
him to their pernicious practices.
Wholly devoted to vice and folly, and tempted
by the little fortune to fall to him within a month,
without the knowledge of his friends, or aihgning
the lead caufe, he quitted his dudics, and betook
himfelf .to a life of unredrained pleafure.
His afll'dcd parent, and fmcere vwtfjesv-
tunately folicited his return •, but deai to \be\vHsv»
u caries, he rather accelerated bis cvceev tsceS*^
( 77 )
an] poverty, nor allowed himfelf a paufe io his
progrefs towards the goal of ruin.
Having received his fortune, much of which
was exhauiled by debts previouily contra&ed on
various accounts, he became not only a dupe to
his own paflions, but to thofe (harpers which in
this town are always ready to trepan the unthink­
ing youth. The circle of his acquaintance with
both (exes now enlarged, and his cxpences in pro­
portion, infomuch, that withiu the compafs of a
year, hiS ready calh was expended, and he was
obliged to have recourfc to mortgage his little
eilate, and from thence to abfolute fate; fo that
in about three years he was difencumbered of the
whole. TIis former midreffes oow eyed him with
referve, bis former companions affe&ed indiffer-
ance, an I many with whom he had pafled hours,
- of joiliiy, had forgotten both his name and face.
Thus bereft of his fortune, and abandoned by his
pretended friends, he drolled from place to place,
and often fauutered in the park to count trees,
for a dinner. Being at 'lad reduced to a date of
abfolute want, like the prodigal fon, he returned
to his doating parent, who received him with all
tiie warmth of maternal affe&ion, arrayed him in
decent apparel, and furniihed him with every rc*
quifite for the retrieval of his former fituation.
Affected by this indulgent treatment, he pro.
miffed fubmiffivcly to apply to his injured patron,
and if he could obtain his favour, refume bis re.
gular courfe of life.
But fee the infatuation of vice and folly, not.
witbdanding his experience of the fatal confe.
quences o f a diffbiution ot mota\s,
ktfs o f reputation, but griping penur'} uSsiS.\ Vr
( 7« )
had no fooner the lead power of tailing the bale­
ful vices, than his impetuous defires prompted him
to the purfuit of them.
As his finances were but fmall^ he could only
fee enough to inflame bis defires, wl}ich as, be'
could not accomplifh, he at length determined on
a foreign exploit, and accordingly embarked in a
privateer, amongfl the very rtfufe of mankind.
Here he found fome companions, who owed
their fituation to the fame caufe with himfelf, and
daily joined with him in lamenting the day they
were feduced to enter the habitation or refort of
harlots.
As he had now much time for reflexion, he
frequently ruminated on his pad life, the confe-
qucnces of folly and extravagance, and the akje&
flate to which he had reduced himfelf.
Happily he efcaped the lofs of life and limb,
and once more returned to bis native country, and
the carefles of the mod indulgent of parents«
Nor were his inclinations to vicious purfuiu
abated by a former feries of hardfhips and dangers,
as he difcovered in many indances the fame defires
as before, though the means for accomp’ifhing
them were wanting, fo that hi» abdiaeuce was
no virtue.
At length his unhappy mother, through, dif-
appoihjtment in her expe&ations of the conduif
and fate cf her ion, added to an admatic difor- .
der, clofed the fcenc of her life, and left my un­
happy friend to roam at large through' the dreary
maze of an unhofpitable world. . *
Time ami misfortune at length \vvwv\s*
ft-rious reStdioa, and though*
and ivdufiiy, he- procures i W tAht&tc
( 79 )
i
fclf and little family, he pafles not a day without
repining at his former unhappy fate, refulting
from an incident appirently trifling, but produc­
tive of a conftant fnurcr of difquiet.
Since thefe and worfe effects flow from the refort
of fnch hnufes. we have been fomewhat prolix,
in reciting a cafe, which our country readers may
rely on as matter of faft, and which, we hope,
will t fledually difluade many from the profecution
of fnch dcftruftive meafures.
The itranger cannot pafs any of the ftreets of
this fcene of luxury, without being expofed to
the temptation of lewd women, either in paflSng^
or from the windows. Through the force of white
and red paint, and the glaring of a few tawdry
rags, they fnme of them appear at a diftance, de*
Arable obje£ts, and have thereby allured to their
embraces many innocent inexperienced country*
men, who have had reafon to rue their unfortu*
nate captivity.
Beiides thefe dangers to which the honed coon«
tryman mult be expofed from this quarter of the
town, be will likewife, at' night, be liable to the
infults of banditti, whofe bufincfs is to feek occa*
fion to quarrel, ahufe, and thereby draw him be*
fore a juitice, and extort money by falfly fweariog
he was the aggreflor.
The very officers of juitice have availed them*
felues of the ignorance and timidity of a ftranger,
whom they have apprehended, carried to-a round
houfe, and obliged to fee them", to obtain difmif*
Aon, though detained contrary to all law of rca-
fon or the nation.
In Ihorc, fo numerous atvi vanews » t
trigue$, frauds and allutemenw piaftMeA,
( 8° )
[ 8 . ]
as the infults, abufcs and villainies committed on
the perfon of a ilrange countryman, that, w!|pn
ron this enchanting ground, we ihould admoniih
him to tread with the utraod precaution, to main­
tain a confiant guard on his pallions and temper,
and not to be extravagantly fond of any amufe-
tnent or objeil that may prcfent itfelf to his notice
and obfervation.
Having thus led our readers through a difmal
wilderaefs, and (hewn them what kind of wild
beads range therein, as well as related many oc­
currences and cuftoms, we prefume worthy the
attention of the ftranger and countryman, we (hall
indance fome of the prevailing follies of the times,
and fubmit the abfurdity of them to the bar of
reafon, and decifion of manly fenfe.
With refpe<5l to garb or drefs,- many are fo ri-
diculoufly extravagant, that this (ingle article en-
grolTes moll of their time, mpney, and thoughts.
Perfons of quality and refined taile, drefs three
or four times a day, and are fo fond of exotic fop­
peries, that not only mod trades in the date, but
mod nations in the world, are concerned in their
equipage. There are alfo in this town a kind of
butterfly fparks, or infignificant infeéts, that flutter
about a year or two, and are afterwards forced to
creep into holes and corners, in a garb as con­
temptible, wretched and loathfome, as thé former
was fplendid, fulfome, and ridiculous.
This pra<ftice vain and foolilh as it is, has been
adopted by numbers to their utter ruin, who hav­
ing expended their fortunes in a féw gaudy trap­
pings (in order to make a figure, as they term it)
become the contempt and ridicule niusàÀ
[ *»■ 1
town. There is alfo an Epicurean fed, aforfd <
nice palated Iparks, who can relilh nothing but >
dainties, and defpifing the unadulterated produc­
tions of their nat ive clime, as common fare, affefi
a tdile for ftudied mixtures, coftly fauces, and
foreign delicacies.
Thel'e have fiequently indulged their luxuriance
of tafte wi'h delicious moifels, till they have want-1
ed food convenient for the fupport of nature. |
Others in this town, alfedl the character of be­
ing generous and luciable, by making cofUy treat?
and entertainments; 1 have heard a fool boaftof
having expended a hundred pounds on an even­
ing’s entertainment for a few friends, who, after
all, only contemned and ridiculed his prodigality.
The extremity of this folly has frequently ap­
peared in the expences of giddy youth on jilts
and courtezans, whom they have indulged in
every whim of drefs, and caprice of tafte, that
pride can fugged, or luxury excite.
Such perlons are beneath even pity, and ve
cannot, when reduced, but feem to grudge then?
the very hulks to which their penury confine*
them, and wifh them fucli a fate, as might deter'
the red of mankind from their inadvertent condufi.-
By tliefe reflections, I would not inculcate mean
and narow principles, as I deteft alL morofenefs-
of temper, and Angularity of behaviour, and
heartily recommend a decent garb, and gemeel,.
friendly entertainments, upon proper occafiofls,
as equally neceflary and commendable in a gentle­
man; but to prevent country peopie of property
from being hurried into a compliance with this-
LrllFa cuitom which prevails m v\us Vowt*, M
asisvk
f * J J
■difgrace and impoveriihing of thofe who praxâiQs
them.
. Of ail the follies and fallacies which reign in
Condon, none is more glaring than affeflation. By
this term, I underhand, according to the defini- '
tion of a modern dramatic writer, endeavouring
to impofe ourfelves on the world, For what weare.
not ; or itriving to he, what we are perfaaded we
cannot. There is not in human life fo. trite a.
character as this.; as every man entertakta a gooji
opinion of himfelf more highly than he ought, fo
many are prompted by drefs, or fome extra mark,,
to give-themfelves an air of confequeuce, which
bey vainly imagine intilles them to a general
eûeem.
In promifeuous companies, I have frequently
known a (harper taken for a gentleman, and thé
mailer of a puppet-fhew for a man of fenfe.; fo
deluded are moil people by appearance.
A great wig and fignificant ilrut, have long com-
pofed a phyfician.; and the apothecaries, and very
quacks follow their example, Divinity, with re-
lpe& to the garb of many of its profefl’
ors, feema
:o be reverted ; our young clergy wearing fmart
curling locks, and prim (locks, more becoming
:avern waiters, than teachers of the people* .
I'hU .folly of affectation prevails in London
more particularly, becaufe, through its vail ex­
rent, and the multitude of its inhabitants, jperfons
can carry on a difguife with more plaufibilty,
than in towns where the character and oircuro-
flrnces of individuals are minutely enquired into,
Hence it comes to pais, tliat fo many vain, un­
thinking fops have maintained a.
Çffy the title of ’fi^uire^ at*d \\s aVteMwx
nities for a few months, and then faeaked from
' i
the bailiff’s clutches, and bilked all, on whole 1
credulity they would impofe by a little outfide 1
jhew and gaudy parade.
I therefore efteem it effential to my defign, to
admondh country ¡erfons of both fexes, to be­
ware of this delufion of affectation, nor judge'of
any perfoti here by appearance, Thoughmoft
by affectation gratify tneir pride, many fubferve
their intereft, indeed wholly live by it. Thefe
are painted whores, who when bereft of their dif- •
guife, difplay a figure odious to the beholder.
x
Thc fitnplity of (Grangers unaccuftomed to fop*
pery, induces them frequently to catch at the bait
laid for them by the enfnaring of both fezes.
Plain John is liable to be deluded by the pomp sf.
a train, or a glare of necklace, nor isjhoneft Sue
always proof againft a laced coat« aryl gaudy
fwordnot.
On the other hand, villains frequently perpe­
trate a£ts of injuftice, not only under the maik of
fimplicity, both in drefs and behaviour, but even
under the very fanftion of religion. We have
here many perfons fcupuloufly pun&ual ~in the
forms and ceremonies of religion; great church*
goers, would not fwear an oath on any account,
(qualities good in themfelves) but follow them in*
to the world, weigh their actions in the balance
of juftice, bring them to the (tandard of right and
wrong, and you will find their religion mere af­
fectation, their.devotion an abfolute lie, and their
precifenefs downright hypocrify.
Such is the prevalence of infidelity on the one
hand, and fanaticifm on the other, that. wvia.aV\.
our religion, more fefts of which there ocrex wex*
i 84 1
tlian at this time, common honeftly fepms banifh-
e d , and God-like benevolence to have, dcferted'..
every bread.
In a word,' fair as things may appear to afu-
perficiat eye, - this epitome of the world called .
Loodon, will' afford the minute infpedor but at- '
diftnal feene, in which he will difeover power op-
preifing merit, riches oyer balancing bonefty, and
afft&aiion trampling onfimplicity. -
Such is the prevalence of power and parade,^
■
that- real merit is with great difficulty afeertained, 1 :
efpecially in a place where difguife and artifice are- ..
daily praftifed. Writers may be poffefFed of ge­
nius in an equal degree, yet appear in different;
lights. Slender virtues may be highly efteemed, 5
becaufe they appear in certain places, or before.' ./
certain perfons. Many txercife exalted virtue; in' ,
pbfeurity. I remember a worthy country gentle--
man, painted at court in the blacked colours, ntbo4 '
at {he fame -time, was extremely beloved in the( •
country. The reafon was, that the country peo«: .
pie among whom he chiefly refided, had no cor*-
refpondence at court, and therefore bis reputation
extended no farther than bispariih j whereas fome -
potent perfons, againft wbofe oppreffions he' do* : .
fended the. common people, were intimate, with 1
principles at the capital. On the other band, to 1
verify our remarks, concerning charade«, we
may find fome who are generally i]l-treated in their •
own country, .but pafs for angels in the capital.
If we fhould really enquire into a man’s cha- "
rader, we fhould repair to the<place of bis abode^ - '
and there procure information* not ifrom his fu-
periors va the fpot, .but from but v-V
egaa/ raok^ with whom he haa Ywe& ,<sw>.
[ *J ] -
natural manner. Daily experience fhews hwr
wretchedly we are impofed upon by the falle at.
teftations of fotne to anfwer particular purpofet,
and that we, therefore, cap only have a man’s true
chara&er from tbcfe with whom he lives free and
twreferved.
Another very prevailing foHy in this town, it
an implicit compliance with what is called tafte
and falhion. Though tafte in the abftrafk, may
appear but a trivial thing, yet whoever examines
. hiftory and mankind, will find it a main fpriog of
buftncf» and a&ion,
Concerning tafte, we may find a rightjudgment
from children, who generally delight in milk and
fruita which nature mpplies in plenty, whence it
may be inferred, there is a native agrecablenels in
fueb things. Moft grown perfons arefo débauché
ed by cuftom, falhion, and fancy, that they ratr
ther efteem things according to genuine goodnefs.
"Ufe are often, by the fcarcity and prise of things,
indoceed to defpife what nature has marked fo r
good, and produced in abundance. We cootrad
an averfion- to things obtainable .with eafe or ftnaÙ
expence, and cultivate a fondncfs for wotfe thaj
pre dear, and obtained with difficulty. Te^ is
more fafhionable than milk, becaufe of the dif.
fcrence of price. Vegetable produ&ions of Chips*
and other eaftern countries, tafte fine, for the colli
of the long voyage to procure them; and men
generally fancy dear .'things mult be good. Nor if
fallir tafte lcfs- glaring in this town, ip drefs and
behaviour.
If the prince was to walk upon ftjlts, the cour­
tiers would follow him, and.maintain the pra&icg.
to -b e g e m c tland rational.
f 8
6 ]
Ires to the ufe of bad tailed things, and'trotibfeW
nae habit«,. in order to be diftjnguiftwd ftom the
ligar.
Surely oature and reafon have preferibcd tbe
le of medium, which dire& a juft value on every
tag, and forbids an immoderate attachment to
iy. Decency declares it abfhrd in the fair fex,
’ Ihort garments, to fhew their very knees, and
copomv exclaims againft traiKng the ftrests with
:b brocades. It is equally prepofterooa in the
her fex, to wear garments which will hardly
ver their pofteriors, or fuch a« fcarcely difcovec
sir legs.
By thefe brief remarks on tafte, I mean not to
courage a ridiculous affe&ation of Angularity, ax
it of the two follies is the word; but to prevent
implicit compliance with every ridicalous cu&
n or opinion,'that they may be broached by any
>
1 of quality, capricious coxcomb, or flirting:
rjuet.
the lad folly, incident to this town, I (had
at ion, .is caballing, and embarking with parties
1 factions. If a man reflr&s feeioufty on the
ibility of human nature, the effeft off prejudice,
I bias of intereft, he will- not immaturely de-
e in favour of any opinion, ft£fc, or party. A,
n over fanguine in this refpeft, indicates a want
underftaoding, or incurs ja fofpicton of venal».:
Beftdes, a perftm over atotens in tbe pro»l
ting the caufe of- a party, is generally negligent:
thofe affairs which immediately relate to htim i
; and to which, if he attends- nor, he wiBbc
hie to difebarge many relative duties incunv»
t upon hiro. 1 have known marry worthy mm
ted bf cabkh and fo&iousj w&ov v£urcu%
{ «? I
[ »» ]
parlies, both with their time and property, hare
dedroyed their cone&ions and credit, and at tail
been ireat 'd with the bafeft ingratitude.
Such cabals are in the higheft degree injurious
to commerce, friendihip, and fociety; as they
evidently tend to inflame the mind, deftroy good
faith betweeu men, and kindle difeord in thofe
breads, which were before the feats of'perfed
harmony. In fliort, party connections can never
improve the mind, nor obtain any folid good,
while they generally incur much detriment both
in point of temper and propriety.
Having thus exhibited a concife view of the men j
and things of the town, I prdume it will not be (
foreign to our purpofe, to add a few general di- '
reftions to fuch perfons as may be difpofed to.vifit ;
it, either for amuferoent or employ ; as much cau* •
tion is neteflitry, not only on their arrival, but (
alfo previous to their departure from the country. (
With refpett to the man of fortune,' his m
oil
important concern, is the oifpofal of his edite.
This is the grand btafis upon which all the red of
his affairs mult move, fo that uniris that is left to
the conduct of a ikilful and honed perfon, what*
ever fuccefs he may have in town, it will not com
*
penfate for the lofs he mud inevitably fudain..
To fettle this important aflair, with mod eafe,
and convenience to hitnfclf, lead trouble to his
friends and ferváms, and greated fatisfa&ion and
advantage to 'his tenants and neighbours, it will
be neetdary, in the firfl place, that he be his ovo
auditor, take a monthly furvey of his refpe&ive
accounts, balance his expences with his receipt!»
and proportion both according to the amount of
his revenue. Some of out
t 89 )
à reflection upon their characters, atid imagine
àt the overfight of their elta.es is not only a
iious employ, but a derogation from their dig-
ty ; but to a man of real honour ànd confidence,
is rather a diverfion, and advantageous method
difpofing of thofe lpare hours, which, unoccupi*-
1, would be burthenfome, inconvenient, or efc*
mfive,.
His next concern mult be, to procure if pot­
ile, an honelt ingenious man for a fteward, one
at will neither be tempted by avarice or intereft,
ir feduced by neceflity to betray his concerns,
•embezzle his effeCls. He ihould be neither
orofe in temper, nor rigotous to his tenants t
;t watchful to keep them within the moderale
milds of their leafes and agreements ; and above
1, careful to retrain them from running too' far .
arrears, which commonly terminates, not only
. the ruin of themfelves, but the lofs and in*»
mvenience of the landlord,,
A fteward ihould be remarkable for difcreet
ivemment of himfelf, and his own affairs ; he
ould be a tolerable mafter of accounts, and well
:rfed in the art of agriculture, and the method
r country dealing: but above all, he ihould be
vefted of feliihnefs and mercenary defigns, and
luated by principles of juftice, humanity and
atitude,
A provident houfe-keeper will alfo be requiCte,
ho (liould be difcreet, faithfejL affable, modeft,
eek, and compalfionate; and free from the little
mities of goijipping and tale-bearing, too com-
on to her fex. Her mailer’* houle ihould be
:r only empire, and the peaceable gpvexuTwsox.
of it lier higheft ambition s fiie flioûld have no
ends, nor butiliefs of her own- to divert her mindj
but be vigilant in obferving and restraining the
»1regularities of (lie family, not more by advice
and reproof, (ban the precedent of her decency
and moderation. If the country gentleman could
thus furnifli himlelf (wh'clr indeed will be very ,
difficult) he might then folace himfelf with a eon-
fideration, that when he bad tired himfelf with'
the vices and follies of the town, his affairs at borne
being in a good fituation, he could return and
repofe himf If with fatisfadlion out of the reach of
ks noifé and hurry.
The next thing worthy the confederation oflhe
country gentleman, is to manage himfelf wkh
advantage and fecurity when he comes to town.
He has been {hewn already the rocks he is moft j
lirbte to fplit upon, and the vices, follies, and
danger«, to which he will be perpetually’expofrd i
as a gentleman and ilranger. I ihall therefore
wave thofe already mentioned, and offer him a
few admonitions, whfch I hope will aeitber .be op-
acceptable or unprofitable. The firft point of
advice I would enforce is, not to hurry him into ‘
thé lociety of Ürangers. 1 his we have repeated
again and again; as the generality of the milchiels
of this town derive their origin from that four«.
I alfo again admpnifh him not to take, men tfii
things upon trail, but firft to weigh them fobtrly
and deliberately, to bring them home to the
tribunal of reafon, confidence, and experience/’
before he paffes judgment, or makes optiou This
town is moftly iwayed by falilioods and contradic­
tion, or by fadlioQ and imereft, fo that if he tak*»
things nakedly, without com^rno^
< 9 * J
\
I 9‘ )
:he rules of truth and probability, he will be fub-
je<5t to endlefs falihoods and impoilures.
Xwould alfo remind him of his charadler, his
birth, education, and eftate, and if he confident
himfelf as a gentleman, not nominal, but real,
he will doubtlefs deport himfelf confidently wit^
that title, and regulate his behaviour by the urn-
erring maxims of reafon and juftice.
With refpeit to ladies of fortune, as it is cuif-
lomary for them to receive good tuition in the
»untry, they may form a to:erableidea of the'
nature of the town t fylbce it therefore to admo-r
nilh them not to value the fopperies and pleafures.
>f it, in an inordinate degree, but to beware of
he devices and intrigues of rakes, fortune-hum*
tprs,
Perfons of inferior rank of both fexes, will be
gore liable to the fallacies of an enfnaring town,
»from their fituation in life, they are depriyecL
rf that knowledge of it which results from reading
indcouverfe; but it is prefumed, that a precife
idherence to the ru es we have laid down, and
)bfervations of the various arts, cheats, and tricks
ve have dete$ed and expofed, will prevent their
‘
ailing a prey tq the fame, and enable ihepi to
ender a town vifit both amufing and profitable.
.VYe would especially diifuade country perfons
'f all ' ranks from harbouring the lead defirc of
ui ting a rural refidence, for the noife,- hurry,
nd coufufion of a city life.
Any perfon of reflexion cannot behold, with-*
ut much corfcern, fq many (lately buildings
touldering into ruin In divers payts of V\y
v
^-
Jmfor want of inhabitants,
Iftke ruikl innabitapts urge divexfov^
for preferring a town refidence, we may certainly
with j'liuce iep!v, that hunting, fiihing, fowling,
and the like, are noble and manly recreations, and
do not cloy nor fatiate, hut are Hill improving and
growing daily more delightful. Thi:y are not
fpent or wailed by fruition a» ours are, for the
more tliey are purfued, the more they entertain .
?nd gratify.
Befides, it will be neceflary to confider the ex*
pencts which inevitably refult from the pnrfuit of
(he pleafures of this town, whereas thofe of the
country are free and open, and derived, as it were,
from the general grant of nature. Add to this,
that all the pleafures of the town may be run
through in the narrow fpace of two or three days;
which done, you do but traverfe the fame fooliih
road, and tread the lame ilage over and over
again,’ and what can be more ungrateful to ah in­
genious, enquiring mind, than the dull repetition
of the fame fcenes. If thcfe remarks are weighed ,
in ihe b.allance of fober reafon, their falutar. etiedi
heed not be doubted.
If education is the pretended motive, I wouldad?
what kind of education is fought after in London?
A genteel and liberal one may be obtained in '
(he country, and every neceflary qualification for
a tradefman or a gentleman,
Thofe perfons who hope to. improve in ev^ry
ufeful or ornamental branch of education, ih.ould
embrace precious, opportunities of quiet and
fedateners, which cannot be expected in a nojfv
town, the very bane of ftudy and meditation. In
the country, ajl things are generally calm-and
Hill; there you have fewer cares \.o \>erA
torment, the m i«d, and fewer dan<ger%\o
{ 9
* )
( 93 )
Mid difcompofe you. There are no hurrying«
nor fcramblings, no countermining of one ano*
iher; put all the bufy adors are innocently and
induitri'oufly proceeding in their proper ftation«,
and, as far ahnoit as human nature is capable of,
bulbed into perfect repofe, ..
Surely none of my country friends can thinfe
af thefe fuperior advantages, and retain their giddy
refolution of quitting them all for the fake of a
noify paltry city.
I am far from advjiing any to a reclufe life: I
»rant that tnufic, dancing, fencing and the-like,
ire very proper amufements to pais away an idle
interval; but I wouid not have thefe preferred to
ruch purfuits as tend to aggrandize the mind, and
jnoble the foul,
. There is. hut one thing, within the compafs of
any knowledge, by which this town can improve
heir education; I mean in point of. converf'at.ian.
[f you were well fettled both in judgment and
principal, if you could run through the different
Tocieties and humours of it, without being infe<ft-
;d or feduced by them, and withal, could extratff
from them fome good morals and ufeful obferva-
iotts, thefe confederations might juftify a vifit to-
London ; but to leave bufinefs.to the management
af fervants, and your boufe and gardens to go to
ruin; come up hither to wafte your time and
noney, meerly under pretence of better company,
diversion, and education, than your own country
;an afford you, is fuch a mixture of folly and
nadnefs, as cannot fail to expofe you to pity, (corn
ind wonder.
ff the deGre. of company arxq \o «>■-
(Change a country for a city life, l$t me affurs
them, from long experience, they will fopn fjnd
themfelves deceived in their expectations. They
may fonh what chimerical notions they pleafe,
concerning the men and things of the town, but
if they fondly imagine, that it exceeds the country
in thofe qualities, which are the ornaments of
human nature, they are greatly miftaken. It, in
reality, is fo corrupt and degenerate and fo ex­
ceedingly over-run with vice and folly, that little
improvement can be expelled“ from the fociety
found in it. There are, indeed, as in all places,
fomc perfons whole company and converfe.tend
to the edification of their aiTociates; but thefeare
fo rare, and withal fo hard to be difcerned, and
come at by a ftranger, that much time may be
fpent in fruitlefs fearch. I can allure him for my
own part, that after many years unavoidable re'
iidence in town, the ejcpence of much money, and
lofs of much time; there are very few within the
circle of my acquaintance on whom ( can con­
fidently rely, and with whom 1 can familiarly
converfe.
The general topics of molt companies here
are of a frothy infignificant nature, neither tend­
ing toanrufement nor inftrucftibn ; though aimoft
«very body ciaims a knowledge of politics, and
our very failors do arraign the meafures of the Hate,
1 am forry to fay, that our companies in general,
abound with ignorance and impertinence, ribaldry
and nonfence, noife and vanity, and therefore no
reasonable perfon can propofe to himfeif and ad->
vantage from frequenting them.
■Thefe remarks, though apparent'} Yrax&
v,,
( 94 >
.litterally true ; therefore if the countryman comas
hither, he mult expert to find men apd things
as they are, and not as he would have them ; and
it b e;has fenfe enough to defpile them, he will
incur the character of a proud ill-naturedj un­
mannerly fellow. «
V • Mow, upon tl>e whole, -if the advantages ofva
country life are fet in oppofition to thole of town
refideoce, ’refpeftirig the health of the body, and
the improvement of the mind; it only ¿remairts
to determine which on a folid foundation is mod
I eligible ; with refpeit to health, it will not admit.»
i -of controverfy, not only as it is dear air, and
I the falutary exhalations of the earth are produc-
I tivo of the fame, but alfo,;as in gênerai, perfons
I -in the country are not fb liable to debaucheries of
I every kind, as they ale in a depraved town becaufe
I whatever may be their inclinations, there are not
- fo many various precedents,
• With refped to the improvement of the miprf,
it is undeniably evident, indifpofition of bocSy
always affe&s the mental faculties, impedes their
exertion, and cads a gloom over thought in gener­
al; whereas health expands the reafoning power,
prompts their exercife, and accellerates invention,
Noife ar,d hurry ajfo attend <tpperplex the mind,
kaniih ideas, and confound ftudÿ ?whereas folitude
a n d retirement unbend the ibul, affift the memory,
a wd enlarge conception.
Befide.% in all parts of the kingdom, there are
^ e n of probity, genius and learning, who allured
the truth of what I am endeavouring to prove,
^av e fixed on a little rural fpot to enjoy the blef-
I &ngs of health and reflection,, and pals life, retired
( 95 )
from the buftle of carping mortals, in fweet folitude
and 'delightful contemplation.
• To- l'uch as thefe you may repair, with theft
you may converfe with p’eafure and advantage
•from thefc you will reap the higheft initriA$ion.
If fucli confiderations carry with theuf anj
weight, .fureiy we need not paufe a moment i<
decide the cafe.
The coun ry life mud as far exceed that of th<
town, as health is preferable to ficknefs, the mine
to the body, pleafure to pain, pr fubllance tc
Ihadtfw.
It only remains to affure our country friends,
that they may rely on the truth of the fevera de­
scriptions and definitions comprized in this litt e
work; that the characters are drawn from life,
without addition or extenuation, and that the
admonitions arofe from a real concern for the
welfare of mankind, and their progrefs to know­
ledge and virtue, wherein confifts the true hap-
pinefs, and fupreme dignity of human nature.
( 9$ )
F I N I S.
