{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v12_n5_oct_2016.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V12 N5 Oct 2016","mylang":"de"}
151
F
—~§~—
—~§~—
152 – Two Interesting Experiences in London – R. Fielding-Ould, M.A., M.D., M.R.C.P
155 – Book Review: Supernatural Entertainments: Victorian Spiritualism and the Rise
of Modern Media Culture – Sharon DeBartolo Carmack
157 – Stewart Edward White: An Obituary – William Oliver Stevens
160 – Voices at Surgical Operations – Helen Duncan & Eileen Garrett
163 – Book Review: Llewellyn’s Complete Book of Chakras: Your Definitive Source of
Energy Center Knowledge for Health, Happiness, and Spiritual Evolution, by
Cyndi Dale – Kurt Leland
166 – 2017 Dates – Britten Memorial Study Weeks at the Arthur Findlay College
167 – Dion Fortune – Bernard Bromage
177 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
Established 2004
Volume 12, No. 5: September – October 2016
152
Introductory Note by LP: Direct Voice was a short-lived high quality American Spiritualist
journal, which can be consulted on the I.A.P.S.O.P. web site.1
Dr Fielding-Ould, a Harley Street doctor, later president of the London Spiritualist Alliance,
is best known as the senior investigator for the LSA of Mrs Duncan. This article shows he
was not without experience of physical mediumship.2
TWO INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
IN LONDON
BY R. FIELDING-OULD, M.A., M.D., M.R.C.P
WE held a hundred seances in all. We were about ﬁfteen in number, a simple group of friends
banded together with the common idea of elucidating, if permitted, some of the elusive
problems of Psychic Science.
Fortunately we had at our disposal an excellent “materializing” medium, whom we
engaged to sit for us exclusively for the modest payment of $15 a week. He was a miner by
occupation, of humble origin and little education. The séances were held on Wednesday
evenings in a ﬂat we had leased for the purpose in Buckingham Gate in the City of
Westminster. The ﬂat we furnished to suit the needs of our projected research, a few chairs—
a table or two and a small organ was all we thought necessary. It will be noticed that, for all
ordinary residential purposes, the ﬂat was really unfurnished.
Our group was made up entirely of friends, all well known to one another and it was ruled
by a committee gradually of ﬁve. Every member of this committee was in one way or another
technically expert; one well known in the world of psychic research (Dr. Ellis Powell) was a
barrister-at-law, well versed in physical science and Editor of the Financial Times;3
another
was an expert electrician, and a third a doctor of medicine given to psychology and a
barrister-at-law of the Inner Temple. As a rule we did not admit more than nine sitters to any
one meeting, and strangers, i. e., persons not belonging to the group, were rigidly excluded.
On two occasions only, did we make exceptions to this rule, and what transpired on those
evenings shall now be brieﬂy recounted.
Inasmuch as the ﬂat was untenanted and locked up between the evenings of our meetings,
and as the medium arrived unaccompanied, we did not resort to the familiar bands and
restrictions which are in some quarters regarded as a guarantee against fraudulent practices.
The medium was always searched as a preliminary and it was held, after careful
consideration, that fraud was impossible under the conditions prevailing.
It should be remembered, that the medium was introduced into a room entirely strange to
him and to which in the intervals of sitting he had no access. Moreover, at every seance he
was surrounded by people of experience in psychic research, and whose one determination
was that whatever phenomena occurred fraud should be impossible. We were in fact always
watchful and wary. In one corner of the seance room we constructed a “cabinet” of black
1
http://www.iapsop.com/archive/materials/direct_voice/
2
The Direct-Voice: A Magazine Devoted to the Direct Voice and Other Phases of Psychic Phenomena No. 4
August 1930 (New York) pages 102-105.
3
That should be Financial News – Note that Powell died in 1922.
153
hanging curtains. In this the medium sat and on each side of the entrance to the cabinet it was
the invariable rule for a member of the committee to sit. The phenomena which occurred
varied, as might be expected, from week to week—some evenings were almost blank, but this
experience happily was rare. It was observed that the variety and intensity of the phenomena
were affected chieﬂy by the atmospheric conditions, but sometimes by the physical condition
of the medium.
When the nights were dry and frosty, phenomena were interesting and often startling, but
when the weather was damp or foggy the results, on the other hand, were sometimes
negligible. In the United States many of the brilliant results obtained may be ascribed to the
dry and electric character of the climate. We invariably commenced our sittings at seven
o’clock in the evening.
One night we were about to begin the seance when there came, all unexpectedly, a
knocking at the outer door. Investigation showed that a strange lady was waiting outside,
asking permission to enter and sit with us. She said she came from Edinburgh and had been
sent by a Scotch medium to visit us. She added that she had been told that at our circle she
would receive an answer to some question which was troubling her. Gently but ﬁrmly we
pointed out that we never admitted strangers; our visitor, however, pathetically pressed us to
allow her to join our circle just for one sitting only. After a hurried consultation the
committee gave its consent. We were reluctant, but largely influenced by the fact that the
lady had traveled a long way, with a deﬁnite and important object in view, and under the
precise instructions of a medium in her own town. Moreover, we calculated that we might
experience something of the nature of a test. The writer of these notes was deputed to sit next
the newcomer, and advised to be specially watchful that none of our precise and well thought
out rules was transgressed.
I should have said that we always sat in a fairly strong red light, whereby it was just
possible to see dimly the faces of the sitters in the circle. Luminous slates were also provided,
which as a rule lay face downward on the floor, but which could be raised at any moment for
special illumination. All being arranged, the sitting began, and in a few moments the medium
went into the trance condition. After a few preliminary remarks by the controls there
appeared in front of our lady visitor, at a distance of about two feet, the most beautiful head
and shoulders of a female ﬁgure. This form was draped in some sort of white material which
partially enveloped the head and flowed down on to the shoulders. It was lighted up and
made clearly visible by a luminous slate, which was picked up off the ﬂoor for the purpose,
by some unknown invisible agency.
Seated where he was, the writer was able to see the ﬁgure quite clearly at about two feet
distance, and he particularly noted the eyes, eyelashes and eyebrows which were perfectly
deﬁned, and also noted the glistening of the coating of the eyeball—the conjunctiva. No word
was uttered at ﬁrst, but the ﬁgure and face were kept under close observation until a minute
perhaps had passed. Then a curious change was noticed; very gradually the color left the face
and eyes, the deﬁnition of the features became blurred, and ﬁnally all resemblance to a
human face was lost; there remained only a uniformly brown mass, resembling an oval
football. It was impossible to estimate the time occupied in the transformation, but after
perhaps ten seconds a further change took place; gradually, just as they had previously
dissolved, the features, details and color of the original beautiful face reappeared and once
more one found oneself gazing into a countenance marked not only by its beauty but also by
the vital and natural appearance of the manifestation.
We were subsequently informed by the Controls that the changes described were due to
the ebb and ﬂow of the Power at work on the materialization.
154
The ﬁgure now drew nearer to our visitor and conversed with her in an undertone, which
was not audible to the other sitters in the circle. Finally, after about two minutes, the slate
dropped to the ﬂoor and the ﬁgure vanished.
At the end of the sitting our visitor was asked if she had received the information for
which she had been sent. She replied, “Yes, everything I wanted; I return to Edinburgh
perfectly happy.” This incident is interesting and remarkable; in the ﬁrst place, because of the
clearly visible changes that took place in the materialized form as the Power waxed and
waned, and secondly, because of the fact that the visitor had traveled from Edinburgh by the
direction of a medium unknown to all of us, for a speciﬁc object which was fully attained as
she had been promised.
Readers of The Direct-Voice will appreciate the signiﬁcance of the facts related and those
now about to be described and not less interesting.
Only twice during our long series of sittings did strangers apply to us for admission to our
circle. One occasion has been already described and it remains to relate what happened on the
second occasion which took place exactly a week later. Once more we were just about to
begin the seance when a knocking was heard at the locked door of the ﬂat. On opening we
descried a thick-set man, about forty-ﬁve years of age, of humble appearance as that of a
manual worker. In a gruff voice, with a marked North country accent, he informed us that he
had come from Hull, at the behest of a medium (unknown to us) in order to get some
information which would be for his good.
As before, with the same considerations in our minds, he was permitted to join the circle,
and having a lively remembrance of the previous week’s experience we awaited watchfully
for what might occur. After about twenty minutes the luminous slate was raised from the
ﬂoor and those sitting near our visitor saw the form of a man fully and perfectly materialized
to the waist. The writer of this account, who was sitting next the man from Hull and holding
his right hand, felt a shuddering movement pervade the whole body of our visitor. Not a word
was said, but the materialized form slowly nodded his head and exhibited a cold, sneering
sort of grin. The face of the ﬁgure was remarkably handsome, with an aquiline nose and dark
colored eyes, but his expression, grinning or in repose, was evil and sinister to a degree
difficult to describe. Suddenly the materialized ﬁgure gave vent to a loud, hollow, mocking
laugh and the slate was dropped and we saw no more.
But again and again, during the evening, that mocking laugh rang out; all those present
heard it, and will never forget the impression of horror it made upon them. A few other
materializations occurred, but throughout the remainder of the sitting that evil laugh could be
heard, at one time near the sitters and at another as if it were forty or ﬁfty yards or more
away. One of the Controls dryly commented: “We get strange people in here sometimes.”
When we broke up the circle, no questions were asked of the man from Hull and he himself
made no remark, but his livid face was eloquent of the emotion he was suffering. After
gazing, as if dazed, into space for a minute or two, he shrugged his shoulders, shook himself,
quietly took his hat and with a quiet “good-night gentlemen” left us.
Who was this ghostly visitor? That we shall never know: but those who saw that sneering
evil face and heard that hard, cruel laugh felt convinced that they had been, for once at least,
face to face with a veritable devil. It was horrid.
—~§~—
155
Book Review by Sharon DeBartolo Carmack:
Supernatural Entertainments: Victorian
Spiritualism and the Rise of Modern Media Culture
Simone Natale, a Lecturer in
Communication and Media Studies at
Loughborough University in the U.K., has
done extensive and exhaustive research to
bring a new understanding and awareness to
the history and pioneers of Spiritualism. In
Supernatural Entertainments: Victorian
Spiritualism and the Rise of Modern Media
Culture, Natale documents the rise of
Spiritualism as a religious and cultural
movement, demonstrating its strong affiliation
with the emerging media and entertainment
industry of the nineteenth century.4
The book is divided into three parts:
Part I: Configurations of Séances, which
covers séances performed on stage and those
held in private homes; Part II: How to Sell a
Spirit, which explores how Spiritualism spread
through the news media and in the process,
developed its own celebrity culture; and Part
III: Spirit and Matter, which delves into print
media (books and periodicals, including
automatic writings) and spirit photography.
Natale takes the reader from the story of the Fox sisters in 1848 and follows the movement in
both the United States and Great Britain through the early twentieth century. In his
Introduction, rather than focusing on the Hydesville rappings, however, as many histories of
Spiritualism so often do, Natale begins with the earliest public appearance by the Fox sisters
on 14 November 1849, when they demonstrated spirit communication in the largest theater in
Rochester, New York, Corinthian Hall. Some four hundred people attended, paying twenty-
five cents a person.
Natale consulted an abundant array of modern-day Spiritualist scholarship and, more
importantly, historical publications, both secular and Spiritualist, including Medium and
Daybreak, as well as a trove of books on mediumship and spirit communication. In doing so,
he reveals how Spiritualist mediums and pioneers embraced many of the same promotional
strategies and spectacular techniques common to the evolving entertainment trade. Like other
performers of their day, Spiritualist mediums had managers and agents, advertised in the
press, and even welcomed controversy and sensationalism in order to draw audiences and
spread the word of the movement. And spread it they did! Natale posits that if not for the rise
in public entertainment and print consumerism, Spiritualism might have never taken flight.
4
Supernatural Entertainments: Victorian Spiritualism and the Rise of Modern Media Culture, by Simone
Natale (University Park, Penn.: Penn State University, 2016; $79.95, £56.95 hardcover; $39.99, £32.29, Kindle;
248 pp., 31 illus., index)
156
Natale covers his subjects with sensitivity and balance. At no time did the author
mock Spiritualism, the movement’s religious beliefs, or the hundreds of thousands of
followers. It’s no secret that fraud is part of Spiritualist history, but in presenting cases of
fraudulent activity, Natale never condemns or dismisses the entire movement out of hand
because of the few who took advantage of their audiences and consumers. On the contrary, he
treats the movement with objectivity and respect.
The amount and depth of his research is impressive; the bibliography alone is thirty
pages with two columns per page of entries. He likewise exhibits a thorough knowledge and
understanding of Spiritualist phenomena, from physical and trance mediumship to automatic
and direct writing. For a scholarly treatment, Natale’s writing is refreshingly clear and
engaging, and he meticulously details, analyzes, and supports each of his chapter arguments,
all of which are solidly supported but easily followed by the average reader.
The only real disappointment with this book is the price the publisher set. The cost
definitely exceeds what the average consumer can pay, and it’s not likely many university
courses would use such a specialized text. Even the Kindle price is steep. It’s unfortunate that
such a worthwhile study that contributes so much to not only Spiritualist history, but to the
field of media and entertainment studies, is out of financial reach for most readers. In this
regard, the publisher did a disservice to the enormous amount of work this author put into this
book. Unlike the popularity and wide reach Spiritualist literature had, and still has, sadly, the
pricing of this book may limit its reach.
Those readers who can afford this book, however, or who can find it in a library or
through interlibrary loan, will not be disappointed. It is an engaging and enlightening history
of Spiritualism’s growth from a unique perspective.
—Sharon DeBartolo Carmack, MFA, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA
Spiritualists’ National Union International, USA Representative
—~§~—
157
Introductory Note by LP: Several of the books of S.E. White were well known to UK
readers a generation ago. Copies were imported by bodies like the MSA, and the Psychic
Book Club reprinted The Betty Book for example. The books continue to be of value to
serious students.
Below is taken from the Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research (JASPR)
Vol. XLI January 1947 No. 1:
Stewart Edward White: An Obituary
On September 18th last, the novelist
Stewart Edward White died at the
University of California hospital after
undergoing an operation. He was seventy-
three years old. The newspaper obituaries
spoke at length about his two-score books
on outdoor life, ranging in scene from
Alaska to Africa, books of wide popularity,
and described his adventurous career as a
hunter, explorer, and soldier in the ﬁrst
World War. His contribution to the realm
of psychic literature, however, was
dismissed by a line or two, such as “he
embraced spiritualism,” in The New York
Times, and in the Herald Tribune the titles
of only two of his books in this ﬁeld. This
notice, therefore, will concern itself with
only this aspect of his writing.
“Before March 17, l9l9,” Mr. White
says at the opening of The Betty Book, “my
own ‘occult’ background might have been
called average for a man who had lived an
active life . . . I suppose I would have taken my stand on the side of skepticism . . .
Spiritualism meant to me either hysteria or clever conjuring or a blend of both.” In his
explorations he had come upon the phenomenon of telepathy among primitive peoples, but
had not been interested enough to try to explain it to himself.
On the date given above, some friends brought a ouija board as a toy to try out. It soon
appeared that Mrs. White (Betty) had the best success with it. She was told on the board to
“get a pencil.” This message was repeated over and over. Later she obeyed and sat with a
pencil poised over a sheet of paper. It began to move slowly and formed a long continuous
script in which the words had to be deciphered and divided. When the sitting was repeated, in
order to make sure that she was not consciously manipulating the writing, she blindfolded her
eyes or looked away while her hand moved over the paper. Her husband sat in as the
“observer.” The phenomenon so excited the curiosity of both Mr. and Mrs. White that they
continued experimenting.
In this way began a long series of alleged communications. From writing, “Betty”
changed to the method described in Our Unseen Guest, of relaxing into a species of ‘‘double
consciousness,” or trance, from which she dictated words which came to her, and which her
husband took down.
Stewart Edward White, 1912
158
About a year and a half after this experimenting began, the Whites had assembled over
400 typed pages of MS. Some of this script was personal, such as instruction in technique,
but the rest of it expressed a philosophy which, says Mr. White, “had given us a new outlook
and a fresh grip on life.’’ But he waited seventeen years before any of this was offered for
publication.
Meanwhile, however, he issued two books that were a departure from the outdoor scene
that had made him famous: Credo (1925), a book designed to help the man with a scientiﬁc
background to deﬁne his beliefs, and in 1928 a discussion of the problems of everyday living
with the singularly unhappy title, Why be a Mud Turtle? But neither of these referred to
psychic experiences.
In 1937 the accumulated mass of scripts bore fruit in the Betty Book. This was followed
two years later by Across the Unknown. These contained a digest of the purported messages
from spirit-communicators called by the Whites “The Invisibles.” A third volume, The
Unobstructed Universe, appeared in 1940 after the death of “Betty,” and is a record of her
communications received through their friend “Joan,” the sensitive who had been the channel
for the text of Our Unseen Guest, which she and her husband published anonymously a score
of years earlier. The Betty Book, Across the Unknown, and The Unobstructed Universe
comprise a trilogy which forms perhaps the most important landmark in communication
literature since Stainton Moses’ Spirit Teachings. These books had a mounting sale; while
The Betty Book sold over 9,000 copies, The Unobstructed Universe topped the score of
32,000.
Subsequently, Mr. White issued The Road I Know, further notes on Mrs. White’s
messages; Anchors To Windward, a restatement of the philosophy or religion that the
communications had revealed; and ﬁnally, The Stars Are Still There, in January, 1946. This,
his last book, was inspired by the many letters that had ﬂooded upon him in consequence of
the “Betty Books,” especially The Unobstructed Universe. He scrupulously answered every
letter that bore a home address. These letters averaged 100 a month over the years. So many
of them asked the same questions that Mr. White selected a number of the most typical ones
and gave his replies.
As to their signiﬁcance in psychical research there will always be a difference of opinion.
Although Mr. White’s character and reputation leave no room for doubting his integrity or
intelligence, the habitually skeptical mind will not have the patience to examine the evidence
that convinced the Whites, but will shrug these books off as the product of honest but
credulous minds. It need hardly be repeated, however, that no one could have started off with
an attitude less favorable to “divulgences” than this practical, out-door man, who had the
typical agnostic mind of his time.
Finally a word should be added about Mr. White’s charm of personality, his talent for
friendship, his generous praise for the books of others, and his patience and tact in answering
all the thousands of appealing letters that were inspired by the “Betty Books.” It is a matter of
deep regret that the distance between his California home and New York deprived our
Society of his counsel and inspiration.
In the year 1919, when the Whites began their psychic experiments, as recorded in the
Betty Book, Mr. White made a trip East from California. He took advantage of the
opportunity that journey offered by arranging a consultation with Dr. J. H. Hyslop. Mr. White
was not then, apparently, a member of our Society. He was troubled and uncertain about the
strange experiences that he and his wife had been having, and wondered whether they had
159
enough validity to justify going on with the experiments. Dr. Hyslop reassured him and
encouraged him to continue. According to the records it was not until 1925 that Mr. White
actually joined the Society. He became a Voting Member in 1941, a position that he held
until his death.
It may be of interest, in concluding this sketch, to tell again a story which is signiﬁcant of
Mr. White’s profound belief in survival and of the deference paid to that belief by the editors
of Who’s Who in America. After Mrs. White’s death her husband made no alteration of his
biographical sketch in the line “m. Elizabeth Grant, of Newport, R. I., April 28, 1904” to
indicate that she was no longer living. The editors were about to make the usual notations as
to her death, when one of them, to quote Who’s Who in America’s Reference Service,
“recalled that he had only a few days previously received a copy of Across the Unknown as a
gift from a friend. He glanced through it. His eye was caught by the ﬁnal chapter—‘I Bear
Witness.’ Before he had ﬁnished the four pages of the chapter he understood why Mr. White
had not himself altered the reference to Betty. And he had reached a decision—he would
suggest that the usual notation be not made . . . There results a ‘ﬁrst’ among the 433,050
sketches published in Who’s Who in America since Mr. White’s sketch ﬁrst appeared nearly
four decades ago—a waiving of accuracy to make possible a gesture recognizing the
beautiful chapter in an unusual book . . .”
WILLIAM OLIVER STEVENS.
—~§~—
160
VOICES AT SURGICAL OPERATIONS
Introductory Note by LP: The
two incidents below happened
to two mediums at about the
same time- around 1930. The
first concerns Helen Duncan,
who was primarily a physical
medium, though accounts of her
mental mediumship are not rare.
Is it possible that the first
incident described below was a
case of independent voice?5
The second experience befell
Eileen Garrett, and is referred to
in more than one of her
autobiographies. Recently a
letter was discovered in the
archives of the College of
Psychic Studies (transcribed
here by permission of the
archivist of the College of
Psychic Studies.) Again, there is
a possibility that this was
independent voice. Mrs Garrett
was known to have physical
mediumship capacity; indeed
this was causing some conflict
in her life at that time. Her
mentor Hewat McKenzie had
been against such a development.
—~§~—
When Helen herself became ill and required a hysterectomy, she pleaded with Doctor
Harrison to be present at the operation himself. It proceeded as scheduled at 10.00 a.m.
one morning. To all present it seemed to be going well and everything appeared normal,
when a voice was heard to say, “I think you have gone deep enough.”
Quickly swabbing the wound, the surgeon saw that indeed he had. Another fraction
and Helen would have been in serious danger. After the operation was completed and
Helen had been removed to the recovery room, the doctors and the surgeon remained in
the theatre, discussing the remark about the cut being deep enough. Nobody seemed to
know who said it; everybody present denied having made the comment.
“I didn’t say it,” said the surgeon. “I thought it was you, Harrison.”
5
The Two Worlds of Helen Duncan by Gena Brealey with Kay Hunter published by Regency Press 1985 pages
65-66. Later re-published by Saturday Night Press Publications 2008:
http://www.snppbooks.com/two-worlds-of-helen-duncan.html
161
“No sir,” replied Doctor Harrison. “I thought the voice came from above us.”
“Nonsense, man. Impossible!” snapped the surgeon.
Yet Doctor Harrison thought he looked oddly puzzled as he walked away.
Doctor Harrison told this to Henry as they talked later of Helen’s operation. Henry
asked the doctor if he could describe the voice, and was told it had sounded well
educated, with a sort of “Oxford accent”.
“Oh, I think that could have been Albert,” said Henry, looking at the doctor to see his
reaction. Seeing the surprised look, he continued before the doctor had a chance to ask,
to explain about He1en’s remarkable gifts.
Far from being sceptical, Doctor Harrison said, “That explains how she always knows
when I am worried about a patient, and how she will tell me when things are all right, or
when they are going wrong. She is certainly a remarkable woman.”
From then until he went into the army at the beginning of the Second World War, the
Doctor and the Duncans remained great friends. Before joining the army, he brought the
new doctor to meet the family. This man, Doctor Burnett, was also to be a tower of
strength to Helen and a true friend to the family during the war years.
Sadly, Doctor Harrison was killed in action very early in the war.
—~§~—
162
2, Charles Street,
Knightsbridge,
S.W.7.
9/6/31
Tele. Kensington 3190.
Dear Mr. Saunders,
Respecting the incident of a voice being heard during the operation on Mrs. Garrett –
naturally one is interested in everything these days, and certain phenomena occur to me
personally almost every day which are difficult to explain.
During the operation for removal of the Tonsils she was taking the Anaesthetic, and
after some “excitement” stage, movements ceased, but when she was no longer
conscious began to talk, first in English, then in a language none of us present, including
Surgeon, Anaesthetist, Sister, a nurse or two and myself understood.
I have been surgeon for a short time on the P.& O, and knew a few words of
Hindustani but can’t say for certain I recognised any, nor was it like any European
language. We all commented on the strangeness of it all, the more remarkable when I
discovered the patient knew no foreign tongue.
I have given over 1,000 anaesthetics myself, and assisted at hundreds of operations,
but never heard anything like it, as before this “speech”, one might call it, she was
talking in English.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) Frederick Stuart.
Note. The patient was gagged and unconscious all this time!!
R.H.S.
EILEEN J. GARRETT (1893-1970)
163
Book Review by Kurt Leland
Ever since its introduction to the West by
the Theosophical Society in 1880, the
South Asian notion of cakra (“wheels”)
has exerted an enduring fascination. In
their original context in Hindu Tantra,
cakras were focal points for meditation
located along the spine of a seated yogi,
sometimes portrayed as lotus-like
mandalas. However, in the West, the
cakras came to be associated with
energetic “centers” within one or more
subtle bodies that appeared to clairvoyant
vision as whirling wheels of light. Hindu
Tantra saw meditation on the cakras as a
means of achieving not only liberation
from endless rounds of rebirth but also an
adept’s omnipotence and immortality. In
the West, the cakras gradually evolved into
a recipe for “health, happiness, and
spiritual evolution,” as in the subtitle of
Cyndi Dale’s new book.6
Dale begins her introduction by stating that
To explore the chakras is one of the truly great tales of the universe. I have spent
years uncovering its many twists and turns, an array of stories enfolded within the larger tale.
I wrote this book to present a compendium of these stories pulled together into a single
source, a definitive storybook about the chakras. (xlv)
The result is indeed an intertwining of many tales, ranging from the Hindu Vedas to
the Huichols of Mexico, the leading lights of the early years of the Theosophical Society
(including one of its founders, Madame H. P. Blavatsky, and one of its most prominent
clairvoyants, Charles W. Leadbeater) to the latest New Age pundits (including Caroline Myss
and Barbara Brennan). Weaving the narrative together is Dale’s attempt to make sense of and
coordinate information from such disparate sources while undertaking a personal quest for
the roots and developmental sidelines of what she calls chakra medicine, of which she is a
noted practitioner.
Compendious the book most certainly is; whether it is definitive depends on one’s
definition of the term. A definitive storybook may have a different epistemological status
than a definitive history. Each is by nature a narrative—one more personal and folkloric,
perhaps; the other more objective and factual.
The history of the notion of cakras in the West has known a number of definitive
presentations, which seem to appear every ten to twenty years. In these cases, definitive
means “defining.” Thus there was the American, Ella Adelia Fletcher, whose The Law of the
Rhythmic Breath of 1908 assembled the known cakra lore of her time, primarily from
6
Llewellyn’s Complete Book of Chakras: Your Definitive Source of Energy Center Knowledge for Health,
Happiness, and Spiritual Evolution, by Cyndi Dale. Llewellyn, 2016. 1056 pages.
164
Blavatsky and Swami Vivekananda. In 1927, Leadbeater, a British subject who spent years
living in India, produced his classic, The Chakras, coordinating ancient Hindu scriptures,
teachings of Blavatsky, and his own clairvoyant observations. In 1951, a British occultist by
the name of S. G. J. Ouseley compiled all that was then known about the connection of
cakras, colors, and metaphysical cosmic rays in connection with color healing in The Power
of the Rays, which remained in print for nearly forty years. And so it went until the 1987
publication of Anodea Judith’s highly influential Wheels of Life, which did for the 1980s
what Dale has done for the teen years of the twenty-first century—sorting and consolidating
all that was/is currently known about the cakras, ancient and modern, Eastern and Western,
factual and speculative, scientific and metaphysical, into a user-friendly system for personal
healing and evolution.
In Dale’s book there are sections on what the cakras are said to be; what cakra
medicine is and how to practice it; how the cakras show up historically and cross-culturally;
the scientific basis of the subtle energy that runs through the cakras; in-depth looks at how
the cakra system (or something like it) was/is taught in Asia, Africa, Europe, the Middle
East, the Americas, and the modern West. There are yoga poses, meditation and healing
exercises, diagrams galore, and color plates.
Perhaps as a result of the deluge of books on the cakras that followed Wheels of Life,
the only way now available to create a definitive compendium of cakra lore is to expand not
only the number of cakras (Dale uses a twelve-cakra system rather than the seven-cakra
system that is seen as traditional in many New Age books) but also the number of locations in
the world where the cakras are said to appear. Having once quipped that “if there are seven
of anything, they must be related to the cakras,” I was startled and chagrined to find pages
linking the ancient Zoroastrian notion of the seven creator spirits (the Amesha Spentas) with
the seven cakras. I doubt that original Zoroastrian sources would corroborate such a
correspondence.
Although the book contains a helpful glossary and over a hundred pages of endnotes,
there is no bibliography. This lapse is perhaps understandable given the book’s six centimeter
thickness. However, a quick browse of the endnotes reveals that a large number of sources
are websites rather than books, a nightmare to arrange in bibliographic form. Further
examination indicates that these sources may not have been chosen for scholarly reliability,
but because they supported the storybook’s premises or perhaps because they seemed like the
simplest way to make a point.
An example of the first problem appears in Dale’s use of the dates 400 BCE to 400
CE for the composition of the Upanishads. Though many scholars would concur with these
dates, Dale associates a number of the Yoga Upanishads with them, whereas they are usually
dated to the 1300s to 1400s. Many New Age books make similar assumptions that all Hindu
scriptures called Upanishads are equally ancient, hence equally authoritative.
Examples of the second problem occur on page 413. A chart attributed to Alice
Bailey, channel for a Tibetan Master named Djwal Khul, shows colors associated with the
seven cosmic rays whose various combinations determine our personality and evolutionary
path. The endnote points to an online article by Zachary Lansdowne (described by Dale as “a
former president of the Theosophical Society”—which is misleading in terms of his
authority, since he was neither the international president, nor president of any national
subsection, but only of the Boston branch). Close study of Bailey’s works indicates that rays
and colors may be lined up in various ways depending on the level of personal, soul, or
human evolution under discussion. Thus this listing could not be called definitive, but only an
interpretation by Lansdowne of one way of describing such a correlation.
165
A second list on the same page correlates cakras and rays. It is called “one of the
more commonly accepted renderings,” and is attributed to an article by Rowan Emrys, “The
Seven Rays Made Practical.” Though the article is based on Bailey’s teachings, the true
source of this correlation is a 1975 publication by British occultist Douglas Baker, Esoteric
Psychology: The Seven Rays (based on Bailey’s teachings, yet not mentioned in the
bibliography of Emrys’s article). And so it goes with page after page, reference after
reference.
Such quibbles may not matter to readers who share the beliefs touted in Dale’s book.
But what is a scholar to do with such a farrago? I suggest treating it as a time capsule. The
book is a goldmine of information about how cakra lore has been influenced by the spread of
information (and misinformation) on the Internet, and by what Olav Hammer calls source
amnesia, in which the original sources of spiritual beliefs are erased, stripped of cultural
context, and repurposed within an entirely different cultural context—such that, within a
generation or two (fifteen to thirty years), they are called traditional and often perceived as
ancient. For example, the “Hindu Chakras” section, comprising 130 pages, makes no
differentiation between genuinely traditional Hindu material on the cakras, such as the
number of lotus petals and the Sanskrit letters assigned to each, and correspondences added
hundreds of years later by Western occultists, such as glands and planets, which are now
considered traditional.
Severe as these criticisms may seem, we must recall that we are dealing with an
evolving body of metaphysical speculation within a quasi-religious, or at least “spiritual” (in
the New Age sense of the word) context. This context includes “health, happiness, and
spiritual evolution,” hallmarks of what Catherine L. Albanese has called “American
metaphysical religion.” Whatever may be the use of the book for spiritual seekers and
practitioners of cakra medicine, scholars of religious history might come to view it as the
Wheels of Life of 2016—definitive indeed in its comprehensive survey of contemporary New
Age thought and belief about the cakras.
—Kurt Leland
—~§~—
166
Britten Memorial Museum
& Library
RESEARCH – STUDY WEEKS
at the Arthur Findlay College
A Unique Opportunity
Exploring Spiritualist History
Studying for an S.N.U. Course, a degree, writing a paper or
furthering your general knowledge of Spiritualism and our history,
etc.
2017 RESEARCH - STUDY DATES
February 11th – 17th
July 22nd – 29th
November 11th – 17th
£25.00 per day 09. 30 – 20. 30
Your Research – study visit will be supported under
the guidance of the Museum Curator and Librarian,
Paul Gaunt. Students will have access to the
important major Spiritualistic journals of the day,
books and the Museum, where you can
study and research the many aspects of our history.
Scans/photocopies will be available on some material.
All those intending to book should contact Paul first
to make sure any specialised subject material is available
curator@snu.org.uk
MEALS & ACCOMMODATION AVAILABLE IF REQUIRED
Lunch £10, Dinner £12.50.
Bed & Full English breakfast is £90.00 per room per night for an ensuite room.
Bed & Full English breakfast is £70.00 per room per night.
Alternatively, accommodation is available in the village, a list is available on request
167
Introductory Note by LP: We have featured before in Psypioneer, the mediumship of Dion
Fortune, for example, Dion Fortune Magical Medium June 2011. Biographers of Dion have
used the account of Dion given by Bernard Bromage in Light.7
Since he wrote, much more
information about Dion’s work has been revealed, but it remains a valuable portrait.
DION FORTUNE
BY BERNARD BROMAGE
I FIRST met Dion Fortune in rather
unusual circumstances. At least they
were unusual enough for me to
visualize her as she was ﬁrst presented
to me with a singular clarity and
deﬁniteness, over twenty-four years
ago.
The scene: the big class-room of a
school under the aegis of the L.C.C.
and the main ﬁgure of attraction:
myself! In a small way I was making
history. I had been engaged by the
University of London to give a series
of lectures on “The Literature of the
Occult”. These “extension” lectures
were the first (and up to the present,
the last) lectures impinging on such a
recondite and deadly subject as
occultism to be given with the sanction
and under the management of a
university body in this country. Were
the august authorities becoming “broadminded?” I do not know. Perhaps I shall never know.
Sufﬁcient unto the day is the evil thereof; and there was I, as large as life if not half as
natural, standing on the rostrum prepared to hold forth on a multitude of speculations
contained in a library of books.
A veritable crowd of students had enrolled for the Course; many more than I had
anticipated. I had not imagined that there could be found in London so many persons alive to
the implications of the theme. It was gratifying! One wondered what was going to happen
next. I had evolved a phrase “The Extension of Consciousness” to designate the close
parallelism between the theories put forward by writers on occultism past and present and the
observations of the scientists with regard to the expanding telepathic, clairvoyant and
telekinetic powers of the twentieth century man. Had I underestimated the prevalence of this
“extension?” There seemed to be a respectable cross-section of average humanity assembled
here this January night in 1936.
It is always my habit to gauge the temper and type of my listeners. This helps to put one
en rapport with them and so avoid remarks which may give offence. In the midst of some
reﬂections about the foundations of my subject I did my best to sum up the perceptiveness
and intelligence of some ﬁfty students.
7
Light Spring 1960 Vol. LXXX No. 3442 pages 5-12
168
There was the usual complement of “earnest seekers after truth” whom one finds in almost
any university extension lecture. There were a few less earnest, but no doubt attracted by the
slightly sensational appeal of a subject decidedly out of the ordinary in these circles. A few
Communists. A few diploma-hunters, A few fortune-tellers, crystal-gazers, astrologers, no
doubt anxious to pick up tips.
But, without in any way disparaging the personalities of these individuals who constituted
this mixed bag, my attention was concentrated on two ﬁgures who sat right at the back; who
took no notes; but who carried around them that curious and practically unanalysable aura
which goes with practice and expertise in the occult and “magical” ﬁeld. I did not know who
they were; but I was certain that they were, in my sense of the word, professionals!
Now, it is always nice to meet professionals. They give a ﬁllip to what might otherwise be
conventional or even disheartening proceedings. They put one on one’s mettle. Their
presence inspires to speculation which might otherwise have lain dormant. The “feel” of
them about the place communicates itself to the less electrically-driven students and brings
out the best in their receptiveness and capacity. I thanked whatever gods may be, occult and
otherwise, for the presence of this pair.
A lady and a gentleman. The latter obviously some kind of professional man: he had the
air of competence; and the personality struck me as that of the medical man. My estimate was
correct.
It is the custom in these Courses for the lecturer to include in his syllabus a number of
questions to be attempted by the students, and for them to submit these to be marked in
earnest of their attentiveness and to import some proof of “educational value” into the
Course.
At the end of the second lecture, the interesting lady came up to my desk and handed me
an essay on the subject of “The Beginnings of Occult Literature”. I glanced at it. I could see
at once that it had the feel of competence about it. Then I looked at the lady. She was a
striking ﬁgure. She bore a remarkable resemblance to the well-known advertisement for
Sandeman’s Port. Her rather plump ﬁgure was swathed in a crimson gown of hieratic cut: on
her head she wore a black ﬂapping hat. There was an odd atmosphere about her of the sibyl,
the prophetess, the diver into deep occult seas.
She told me that although she had signed the essay Violet Firth she was best known as
“Dion Fortune”. Of course I recognised the name. I had read with much interest her Mystical
Kabbalah; and there had been a novel The Goat-Foot God which had intrigued me. I said that
I was very glad to make her acquaintance.
The lectures continued. After each one, Dion Fortune brought me an essay to correct and
assess. Although she expressed a great many opinions with which I found myself quite
unable to agree, her work revealed an intelligence of a high order and a very wide knowledge
of the entire occult ﬁeld. In particular she had an obviously more than nodding acquaintance
with magical techniques, and was no amateur in the strange and rather sinister world of
contemporary Kabbalistic speculation.
I can still see these essays. Some of them had been typed with more vigour than
correctness on an ancient “portable” (the letter “q" always jumped out of its place!) in the
course of train journeys; and they were all written with enthusiasm and penetration. They
were, no doubt, lacking in that kind of correct academic sentiment which is dear to the hearts
169
of University examiners; but the intelligence and thoughtfulness which inspired them was
indubitable. Dion Fortune was my “star student!”
One thing led to another. I was invited along to tea at Queensborough Terrace in the
Bayswater district of Hyde Park, and discovered, not entirely to my surprise, that Dion
Fortune (née Violet Firth) had already established herself as the leader and organiser of an
“Occult” Fraternity, that of the “Inner Light” with its own officers, helpers and followers.
I found the establishment at ﬁrst a little mysterious. There was an air about it of silent and
stealthy forces; of “study” controlled and supported by the importation of emanations from
other planes; of a slight mixing of the drinks! (This impression was reinforced later when I
discovered that the house consisted of a number of storeys, each of which was devoted to one
aspect of the Search for the Inexpressible. There was even a department for the study of
Christianity; of the “Arthurian”, “Holy Grail” variety.)
I was at this time engaged in the translation of some of the Hindu “Tantric Texts”, and I
found Dion Fortune an enthusiastic listener. She herself, she said, had come to the same
conclusions as had the Tantrists with regard to the interpenetration of the powers of mind and
body. She was kind enough to say that she thought my work signiﬁcant and important in the
highest degree. I had, she averred, much to teach her and the world. I returned the
compliment by saying that I was sure she had much to teach me!
She invited me to give a series of lectures at her house. After some thought, it was agreed
that I should concentrate on the exposition of works of fiction, mainly of this century which
had modes of the “extra-sensory faculty” (clairvoyance, telepathy, telekinesis, magical
operations) for their bases. After I had given my talk, she would “take over” and animadvert
on the purely “occult” signiﬁcance arising out of the themes.
There was much advertising, scouting, whisperings from mouth to mouth. The clans and
covens were convened (Dion always referred to my University of London “extension” group
as a “coven” and informed me, on evidence best known to herself, that I was a reincarnation
of a mediaeval German witch!) I myself solicited a few of my friends to act as “Chairman”
on these occasions.
These “Chairmen” surely acted as part of the draw. They included that almost incredibly
proliﬁc literary genius, Majorie Bowen, now alas, gone to her rest; Claude Houghton, most
loyal and generous of supporters; Berta Ruck, the celebrated novelist (both she and her gifted
husband, Oliver Onions, had been friends of mine for some time past); Christina Foyle of the
world-famous, book-emporium; Elliot O’Donnell the expert on haunted houses; Lt.- Col. C.
R. F. Seymour and several more.
I think these lectures were a success. They attracted large audiences from the most varied
ranks of the intelligentsia; and between us, Dion Fortune and myself threshed out many of the
problems which have preoccupied distinguished minds in the ﬁeld of occult speculation.
Whatever else we did we certainly made people think. And they came back for more!
I had become interested in the “Inner Light” Foundation. It intrigued me as a
manifestation of a certain type of modern consciousness trying to ﬁnd its way back to God. It
sought to explore not only the “religious” aspects of man’s equipment, but also those
reactions which can be more or less adequately measured by the yard-stick of the
psychologist and the psychiatrist. (Dion Fortune’s husband was, and, as far as I know still is,
a highly qualiﬁed medical practitioner. It was apparently the combination of their knowledge
170
which resulted in the quintessential “message” which the “Inner Light” had to give to the
world.)
Psychology
Dion Fortune never ceased to impress on me that she considered psychology to be the
operative word. She herself, she said, had attained the greater part of her knowledge of
magical techniques solely by a study of psychological principles. I, as it happened, was well
acquainted with the training of the Jesuits regarding fundamental psychological precepts; and
she was enormously interested to hear my account of this highly-skilled and severely
disciplined school of investigation.
She had attended many Courses at that highly “liberal” Institution, the University of
London, in such related subjects as psychology, psycho-analysis, mental therapy and the like
and she tended to use the terminology employed in these circles in what seemed to me a
rather over-facile and slightly too credulous manner. She was full of “ab-reactions”,
“compulsive neuroses”, “psychosomatic conditions” and the like. I saw her as essentially an
epigone of the Central European School which owed its main allegiance to Freud and which
dominated the minds, not to mention the morals (or lack of them) of so many of the young
and eager intellectual spirits of the twenties. She had fallen for a time under the inﬂuence of
the doctrines of the psychologist Aveling; but it was the triumvirate Freud, Jung, Adler, who
had awakened her extraordinarily intelligent interest in psychological principles and
orientated her towards a position in which she saw quite exceptionally cleanly, the close
connection between modern empiricism and tried and tested tenets of the great Tantric and
Kabbalistic ritualists.
I recall many discussions with her on these and kindred topics: on the nature of the love
technique and how it is the woman, the positive dynamism, who awakens the energy in the
male and so makes him positive; of the part played by the ancestral subconscious in the
formation of character and personality; of the tremendous and sometimes terrifying power of
suggestion and its use in propaganda; of the nature of the child and the perceptions of
animals.
At this time I read all she had written and admired the courage and the insight with which
she probed depths and stressed parallels which had not been sensed previously. A very active,
ceaselessly speculating mind, with touches of genius. I put at her disposal much material I
had collected on the subject of Eastern Religions: she, in her turn, opened my mind to much
that was going on in the “occult" world of London.
More speciﬁc still, she soon introduced me to the more “arcane” side of 3 Queensborough
Terrace! There were secrets within secrets in this Institution, as in many others. I was given
an opportunity to meet several of the students; and to learn how their individual needs were
catered for by special “courses”, adapted to what Dion Fortune regarded as their “grade” of
spiritual development. There was the “Grail” Chapel for comparative novices in matters
occult; there was, I think, a kind of “intermediate" department for the kabbalistically inclined;
there was a department for “initiates” given over, I understood, to research into the higher
regions of occultism.
I was invited, one Saturday evening, to a function which will always remain in my
memory as one of the best attempts I have ever witnessed to stimulate the subconscious by
means of “pantomime” drawn from the more ancient records of the hierophant’s art.
171
One was ushered very secretly into the house and then conducted up ﬂights of stairs to the
topmost ﬂoor where everything was bathed in deep sepulchral gloom.
One was given a seat with a few carefully handpicked “others” in a room at one end of
which was erected a platform before which hung a curtain.
After a period of meditation and speculation, the space behind the curtain became
illuminated and a “Rite of Isis” began. I am conversant with the celebrated Mysteries which
were held in ancient days at Eleusis in Greece; and happen to know by heart the equally
celebrated “Orphic Poem” which was recited by the Initiates of old. Dion Fortune had written
round the central episode of Initiation a “play”, mostly in dumb-show, in which she, her
husband and one or two friends enacted the principal parts.
It was a carefully-studied, conscientiously ritualised performance with excellent regard
paid to tempo, alteration of currents of energy and correct intonation of the sacred words. But
the costumes worn were much more Egyptian than Greek; and I had the feeling that it was
Egypt which Dion Fortune was seeking to explore and probe: not the more recent occultism
of Greece.
I was right. When, later, I discussed the performance with her she admitted that it was the
Ancient Egyptian overtones in the Greek symbolism which had always attracted her, and that
my own account of a period I had spent investigating the ancient cities of the Nile had thrilled
her imagination, For reasons best known to herself she said she was convinced that I had
some kind of occult affiliation with the great Cat-Goddess who sits enthroned in her “altar” in
the gardens of the Temple of Karnak; and, furthermore, she “accused” me of casting the
image of this dread Being athwart the calculated rhythms of her “Rite of Isis”. (I must say, in
defence, that if this “overcasting” had indeed taken place, it was without my conscious
knowledge or intent. But then, in the realm of occult conﬂicts, one just never exactly knows!)
External Rites
The whole matter of external “rites” is, of course, closely bound up with the projection
into the exterior world of forces endemic to various layers of the racial, national and personal
subconscious. To externalise these forces; to bring them out, as it were, into the open, is, if
the procedure is correctly gauged and apperceived, to effect a radical improvement in the
balance of the psyche and to readjust whole tracts which have been subjected to the
destructive chaos of modern life, with its idiotic insistence on continued movement, its
dislike of and contempt for repose; its huge and dangerous bluff of “material progress”
divorced from spiritual reality.
I met at different times a number of the faithful who had been put through various forms
of the mill at Queensborough Terrace; and one and all testified to the beneﬁt to body and
mind which they had received therefrom. They came from different strata of society; and I
had no reason to doubt their bona fide.
It was indeed, the curative aspect of the world of the Fraternity which principally
interested me, convinced as I am that occult tenets are of little avail if they cannot raise the
physical and spiritual nature of man to a higher degree of functional activity than is
manifested by those unresponsive to the “occult” appeal.
I had read with interest the Secrets of Dr. Taverner, a collection of short stories in which
Dion Fortune had expressed in ﬁctional form the knowledge at her disposal concerning these
subtle interrelations of mind and body which can effect both breakdown and revival. It was
172
clear that these readable, well-told stories embodied an extremely shrewd perception of some
of the most complicated activities of the forces of the subconscious and the unconscious and
that the authoress had much more than a layman’s acquaintance with the darker aspects of
obsession and possession as with their more constructive potentialities.
Highly intrigued, I had long discussions with her on the subject, discovering that she,
working in collaboration with her husband, had handled and cured some very severe cases of
collapse caused by what used to be commonly known as “diabolical agencies”. Serious
obsessions, admitted by all competent authorities to be the most difficult things in the world
to treat, she had, by the application of her own techniques, banished to where they belong.
She was remarkably alive to the importance of heredity; “work on their grandmother” was a
favourite maxim of hers!
There was also a “ray” ostensibly connected with interplanetary forces under which the
lame and halt could bask and so dispel their megrims, vapours and other disabilities. But I
never had an opportunity of seeing this phenomenon in motion and had to content myself
with conjecture. I gathered that this therapy was compounded of medical and “occult”
elements and that certain spiritual entities were contacted who had singular efficacy in
healing.
Dion Fortune had, very strongly-marked, one quality which goes to the making of the
successful healer. This was a superb and unﬂagging self-conﬁdence! If people can because
they think they can, then she was undoubtedly an adept. She not only thought she could: she
was convinced of the fact!
Watching her in contact with other people, particularly with those who needed some kind
of support from outside themselves, one was continually being struck by the power she had to
quieten agitation and still fears by her very presence. She had a kind of “maternal” strength of
receptiveness which led the most timid to conﬁde in her and (a most important advantage in
an Institution such as hers) to put themselves at her disposal and execute her behests.
This was probably, to some extent at least, a gift of nature. She had a powerful natural
intelligence, and an apparently vigorous and resilient physical constitution. These things go a
long way towards making self-possession easy for their possessor. Superior mental and
physical endowment constitutes a good start for the battle of life.
But, to the gifts of nature had been added an indubitable self-imposed system of training.
She had taught herself to manage her body with a maximum of economy and an avoidance of
all unnecessary movement. She was one of the most unﬂustered people I have ever met.
Nothing seemed to put her out: neither the stupidity of fools nor the thoughtlessness of the
thoughtless nor the advent of hostility put her off her stride nor did she ever lower the ﬂag of
her endeavour.
I had noticed her physical control when she sat by my side on the lecture-platform and
delivered herself of her “occult” interpretations of the books I had exposited. She had the
posture of some elected oracle proclaiming the Unescapable Law. I have rarely heard a
speaker less nervous, with a ﬁrmer grip on the reins of her audience, more in control of the
situation. (It was plain that she had assimilated some of the principles of the Yogic method:
her breathing was very correctly regulated too.)
173
What is more, she had her own sense of dedication. Within her own limits she looked
upon herself as sent in to this world to give to her own followers a heightened sense of
existence; an insight into occult and even spiritual truths which otherwise they may never
have contacted.
She always referred to herself as “a hermit"; and, although I took this with a grain of salt. I
could see that she apportioned out her routine with the idea of avoiding that inevitable waste
of time and energy which is the lot of most in this feverish, unbalanced civilisation in which
we have our being.
There was her afternoon walk in the near-by park. Enwrapped in the extraordinary
garment so reminiscent of Sandeman’s Port, and with the huge black hat resting witch-
fashion on her still sun-glinting hair, she took her pensive stroll, fondly imagining that she
was unobserved! (To run a movement successfully, one needs a touch of exhibitionism. Dion
Fortune had her touch!)
I think she went out otherwise very little. Occasionally she called on me. She liked my
Buddhist and Egyptian “collections” and was never tired of listening to what I had to say on
the subject of the Tantras. I once ran into her at a performance of that shattering occult play,
“The Golem”, by the unsurpassed Habima Players at the Savoy Theatre. We were both
jubilant about the same things: the display of “signiﬁcant gesture”; the tremendous command
of suggestion displayed by the troupe; the beautifully timed “team-work”.
In a word, she undoubtedly understood the virtues of silence and recollection. These
admirable disciplines she enjoined too on her more knowledgeable disciples. There had to be
no hanging-about in cafés after the lectures; no empty and frivolous conversation; no
scandalmongering; no waste of nervous energy.
All this pleased me. It was in an old and tested tradition. It was approximating to the roots
of the matter. It partook of the quality of decorum, of “one-pointedness”, of relation to a
centre.
Spiritualism
Came the Second World War. My own life was radically altered. From the leisure which
permitted me to devote much of my time to the study of Sanscrit and Tibetan I was plunged
into a host of new activities. I had to instruct a dozen or more Army Regiments in Russian,
German and French. I visited a number of Ambassadors on behalf of the British Council. I
took many courses at the Admiralty and for the London County Council. I had a taste of work
for Military Intelligence.
There was little time for visiting friends; nor, for that matter, for pursuing my own studies
in the world of “extended consciousness” which has always been so near to my heart. But I
did manage to ﬁt in some “talks” to various bodies concerning themselves with this and
cognate subjects.
These included the Spiritualists. I was not entirely surprised to ﬁnd that Dion Fortune had
entered this ﬁeld as lecturer and demonstrator. Previously I had gathered that her attitude to
the orthodox techniques of spiritualism was sceptical, if not a little contemptuous.
But times had changed; and she was spreading her gospel, it seemed, in any quarter in
which the seed might fall on fruitful ground. (I regarded this as a sign of the way the wind
was blowing. Spiritualism which had tended to ﬁght shy of the “scientiﬁc” approach to what
174
it calls its Reality has, in recent years, tended to look kindly on psychic research in its pure
sense; that is a factual investigation divorced from “other worldly” implications and foregone
conclusions This explained the presence of Dion Fortune in the ranks! I cannot imagine her
without her “psychological” background; her insistence on tangible validity and proof.)
I heard that she was giving “sittings" that she, like other mediums, had found her “guide”.
In her case I understood this entity to have been a Scots nobleman of a bygone century.
A few more years passed. I visited her once, during the period of the heaviest bombing of
London (the then Argentine Ambassador drove me round in his car) and found her ensconced
in the basement of another house further down the terrace. With typical optimism she
informed me that the place was a “fortress” and that we could talk undisturbed by the
attentions of the Nazis. The “Fraternity” she said had grown. She had extended her premises.
She had changed. In some curious way a change had come over her entire personality. As
far as I could analyse the transformation, she had surrendered some of her seclusion and had
taken a header into the world. She was meeting a more varied assortment of people: she was
trying out aspects of herself which had formerly lain dormant. In a word she was trying to
move with the times!
Her “reception-room” was now an exotic apartment rich in coloured silks and elaborate
hangings. A small girl, of indeterminate nationality, ran in and out with the tea-things. Dion
wore, for her, a considerable amount of jewellery; and the “Sandeman’s Port” gown of
hieratic cut had yielded to a more mundane (and highly becoming) toilette of black satin.
She had asked me to call because she had a project in mind. It would be an excellent thing,
she said, if the leading occultists in London (or, for that matter, in Europe) could “get
together”; that is, pool their knowledge and resources to enrich the common stock. What did I
think of the idea? Would I be willing to play my part?
A number of prominent names were mentioned, Alchemists, astrologers, sorcerers,
ritualists, writers of learned books and advocates of weird theories. But I have met a great
many occultists in my time; and I have never noticed that the capacity or the willingness to
“get together” is one of their characteristics. I remember telling her that I thought the project
might be tried, but that I thought it not particularly practicable and that one of the best ways
of impregnating the air with undying hatred and venom is to allow one occultist to glimpse
another.
She said she would notify me of the success or otherwise of her enterprise, I parted from
her at the door of her basement fortress with the thud of Nazi bombs falling in the distance.
(Some time previously she herself had a nasty shock when she had narrowly missed being
knocked ﬂat by a boulder when the enemy had scored a direct hit on one of the ﬂoors of 3
Queensborough Terrace. But she stood there dauntless and unbowed, like some Brunnhilde
or Freya out of remote Northern legend; and I later became convinced that she owed much of
her undoubted psychic energy to some Viking strain in the blood.) This was the last time I
saw Dion Fortune alive on this earth!
It was my friend the late Mrs. Tranchell-Hayes who told me of her passing. I had become
acquainted with this lady through a mutual friend some time previously. She is an important
link in the present story; for she was able to fill up gaps in the knowledge I had gathered
concerning Dion Fortune’s pilgrimage, and she was herself a walking encyclopaedia of occult
knowledge; she possessed a remarkable collection of books and manuscripts on sorcery,
necromancy and all ungodliness, and exercised, as well, a benevolent sway over a ﬂat, first in
175
Kingston House and later in the privacy of Kensington Square, bedecked with witches’
rosaries, a ﬁne array of occult amulets and charms and some very effective representations of
power-charged ancient imagery. (Later still she was to become the presiding hostess of a
small “group”, of which I was a member, for the weekly discussion of subjects of a
supernormal character. Dr. Sherwood Taylor, Director of the Science Museum, my friends
Marjorie Bowen and Charles Richard Cammell added their weight, among others, to the
elucidation of occult and magical problems.)
Mrs. Tranchell-Hayes had known Dion Fortune intimately since the latter was a girl. She
had detected in her from the start an individual of strong and talented personality, a poetess of
great charm and distinction and a potential occultist of discernment and cultivation in her
chosen province.
Dion Fortune (who had embodied the intriguing personality of Mrs. Tranchell-Hayes in
one the most powerful of her novels, The Sea Priestess) hailed originally from Llandudno
where her parents, I believe managed a high-class hotel. Mrs. Hayes spoke with great
admiration of Dion’s mother, who, she said, had been a most cultivated and religious woman
and had implanted in her daughter the principles of the Christian Science Creed (Dion
Fortune had often confessed to me that she owed her own life-long interest in regenerative
powers of the mind to an early absorption in the teachings of Mrs. Baker Eddy).
The elder woman had become the younger’s guide, philosopher and friend in the affairs of
the spirit. Equipped with wider experience and a more extensive knowledge, she had, by her
advice and stimulus, encouraged Dion to bring out the best that was in her as regards occult
prowess. Mrs, Hayes, among her other qualiﬁcations, was the widow of an eminent
psychiatrist; and, while residing with her husband in a big mental home near Northampton, of
which he was the director, she had availed herself of the opportunity of studying the various
forms of derangement which came under her husband’s care, and had built up therefrom a
very respectable acquaintance with the body-mind relationship with all its psychological and
pathological complications.
One of her convictions concerning her protégé was that Dion Fortune had made a grave
mistake in adopting the role of spiritualist medium. The “Magic Mirror” technique, the
drawing unto herself a “guide”; the lecturing to all and sundry, were, she thought, a forsaking
of her true path for that which far less distinguished people could have done on their heads.
Mrs. Hayes had a very exalted notion of occultism and its secrets, holding, rightly or
wrongly, that certain of these should be preserved like dear life and that the divulging of them
in any shape or form was to invite disaster.
The Golden Dawn
I should point out here that both Mrs. Tranchell-Hayes and Dion Fortune had been
members of the celebrated arcane society The Golden Dawn and that both had emerged from
it with their own individual ideas of what is valuable and what inessential in the vast province
of occult rites and inﬂuences.
Who was right? They are both gone now; and I do not know. It is pleasant to preserve the
memory of both these ladies in the corner of one’s mind which one reserves for the
incalculable, the bizarre, the eternal feminine.
176
But to me Dion Fortune will always represent one of the most interesting occult
personalities of this century if only because of her versatility, her impressive vitality, the
surging dynamic curiosity which she manifested towards all forms of psychic and occult
reality.
Her literary output, considering all the other activities which ﬁlled her life, was large.
Among her novels The Winged Bull and The Demon Lover will live as virtuoso pieces of the
occult “macabre”. Her “magnum opus” The Mystical Qabalah is surely one of the most
intelligent works in English on this intricate and highly controversial subject. And here are a
few titles selected at random, which illustrate a passionately intense interest and competence
in her chosen subject: Sane Occultism, Practical Occultism in Daily Life, Spiritualism in the
Light of Occult Science, The Esoteric Philosophy of Love and Marriage, Esoteric Orders and
their Work, The Training and Work of an Initiate, Mystical Meditations on the Collects; these
are all immensely readable and deserve a permanent niche in the Temple of Occult
Remembrance! (And to prove that she could turn her hand to anything, she once showed me a
cleverly constructed “thriller” which she had written under a pseudonym!)
She knew the “darker” side of her calling and was ready to warn the unwary of pitfalls.
One of her best works is, I think, the excellently-named Psychic Self-Defence, in which she
reveals a quite astonishing aquaintance with the occult wiles of the “black magician” and the
power-besotted, and provides appropriate prophylactics for the Pandora’s box of emanations
which they let loose on the universe.
Her sociological signiﬁcance? I would not care to assess it with any over-dogmatism. All I
will say is that she was yet another symbol of something new in the way of integration
struggling to break out of the clutches of an unimaginative materialism into a realm in which
spirit can interpenetrate matter to a fresh issue. In so far as she can be proved to have done
this, her work and personality will live.
—~§~—
177
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue, or to contact Psypioneer please e-mail:
psypioneersub@icloud.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
