{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v12_n6_dec_2016.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V12 N6 Dec 2016","mylang":"de"}
178
F
—~§~—
—~§~—
179 – S. G. Soal – A Personal Tribute – K. M. Goldney
186 – My Approach to Psychical Research by Hereward Carrington
190 – Obituary - Mercy Phillimore – Light
193 – Progress of Psychic Research in Europe – Dr. Gerda Walther
198 – From Peace To Power – Annie Besant, D.L.
201 – Some Recollections of Spiritualistic Investigation – Isabelle de Steiger
209 – Change of editorship
210 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
Established 2004
Volume 12, No. 6: November – December 2016
179
Introductory Note by LP: It is not usual for a former SPR president to be accepted by
another SPR president as fraudulent. But this happened recently when Dr Donald West
published his entry about Samuel Soal in the new online SPR encyclopedia.1
Although the charge related to ESP experiments, it does cast doubt over Soal’s work with
mediums, including his supposed case of a living communicator, Gordon Davis. The
reputation of the medium Blanche Cooper, a friend of Mrs Leonard incidentally, suffered
because of Soal’s claims.
There are more details of his life and of his work with mediums in the long obituary written
by Mrs Goldney for Parapsychology Review, which is reproduced below by permission of
Lisette Coly, president of the Parapsychology Foundation.2
S. G. SOAL – A PERSONAL TRIBUTE
By K. M. Goldney
On February 21, 1975, Dr. S. G. Soal died
at his home in North Wales, aged 85. Dr.
Soal was President of the Society for
Psychical Research, London, for the two
years 1950-1951 and over the preceding
years he had become Britain’s leading
psychical researcher.
I first met Mr. Soal (as he then was) in
the early l930’s, when we were both taking
part in investigations at Harry Price’s
private laboratory in London.
The subject of the investigation was a
Czech known as “Marion” (his real name
was Josef Kraus), who seemed to show
telepathic powers. The report on these
experiments was published by Soal in a
Bulletin entitled Preliminary Studies of a
Vaudeville Telepathist. In carrying out
these experiments Soal had displayed his
gift for devising varying experimental
procedures to establish whether or not
telepathy or some other hypothesis
accounted for Marion’s successes. I was
much impressed with Soal’s ingenuity,
patience and absorbed interest in the
subject. So when, some years later, he
asked me to partner him in what became his best known experimental investigation, that of
the sensitive Basil Shackleton, I was more than pleased to accept his invitation.
1
Samuel Soal: http://psi-encyclopedia.spr.ac.uk/articles/samuel-soal
2
Taken from: Parapsychology Review Volume 6, No 4. August 1975 pages 21-24
180
There was a very interesting prelude to these experiments with Shackleton.
After J. B. Rhine, in his laboratory at Duke University, had published the results of his
successful telepathy experiments with cards, Soal decided to carry out similar experiments to
see whether he could repeat Rhine’s success. To this end he tested 160 people and recorded
128,350 card guesses over a period of five years, only to report that “There seemed indeed
little evidence of a direct kind that the persons tested, whether considered as individuals or in
the mass, possessed any faculty for either clairvoyance or telepathy.” As a result Soal became
very skeptical regarding the validity of such experimental results elsewhere. But this
skepticism “received a shock,” as Soal described the sequel. Another leading SPR
investigator, Whately Carington, had been conducting experiments that consisted of showing
different drawings on each day of the week in his rooms in Cambridge and asking his group
of absent percipients to send back to him their day by day telepathic impressions of what
those drawings had been over the preceding week. Carington noticed that not only did some
of these percipients show signs of successful telepathic perception of the drawing on the day
of the week on which it had been displayed, but they were also recording it (more often than
chance allowed for) a day later than it had been shown (by which time another drawing
altogether was being displayed), and, still more curiously, on the day before it was to be
displayed. Carington wrote to Soal in London telling him what he had observed and asking
Soal to look through his own voluminous 128,000 guesses to see whether this postcognitive
and precognitive effect had been present, although Soal, failing to find significant direct
guesses on the card being displayed “now,” had counted the whole five years’ experiments a
failure. Soal was reluctant to spend time looking for what seemed to him so improbable, for
precognitive guessing had not been looked for in those early days of guessing experiments in
England. Luckily Carington persisted in his request and Soal finally complied and found two
subjects who seemed to guess precognitively and postcognitively (with time displacement)—
Basil Shackleton and Mrs. Gloria Stewart. He proceeded to carry out over two years’
experiments with Shackleton (1941-1943) and another four and a half years’ experiments
thereafter with Gloria Stewart. The history of these experiments with persistent significant
scoring in both cases is reported in detail in the book by Soal and Bateman (a fellow-worker
of Soal’s at London University) entitled Modern Experiments in Telepathy (1954).
Whately Carington wrote as follows in his book Telepathy (1945):
Mr. Soal is a most remarkable man, for whose work I have the highest possible
admiration. Possessed of a more than Jobian patience, and a conscientious thoroughness
which I can only describe as almost pathological, he worked in various branches of the
subject for many years with nothing but a succession of null results to show for it. So
markedly was this the case, and so sceptical had Mr. Soal become, that when at last in
1939 he announced a highly significant positive result, we all felt, as Professor Broad put
it at the time, “Is Soal also among the prophets?”. . . . Later, hoping to repeat Rhine’s
results in England, he tested 160 persons collecting 128,350 Zener card guesses single-
handed, and using the most elaborate precautions against every possible source of error;
but all he got out of this was one poor little result, of fifty to one anti-chance odds,
showing a tendency to score below chance on ostensible “pure clairvoyance,” a reward
hardly commensurate with the labour involved.
None the less, paradoxical as it may appear, if I had to choose one single investigation
on which to pin my whole faith in the reality of paranormal phenomena, or with which to
convince a hardened sceptic (if this be not a contradiction in terms), I should
unhesitatingly choose this series of experiments, which is the most cast-iron piece of
work I know, as well as having yielded the most remarkable results.
181
The Shackleton experiments took place in London during the war years 1941-1943. Soal’s
college had been evacuated from London to Cambridge and he had to come up by train, at the
end of a day’s work, for each experiment. I was working full-time in London at war-work
and during this period we were experiencing heavy bombing raids from German planes,
which made it difficult to get together the minimum of four persons we needed for each
experiment and five people, at times six, for the occasions on which we had one or other of
our twenty-one independent observers present. Shackleton was in poor health (he had just
been invalided out of the army) and in a tense state with personal worries; readers can
therefore appreciate that it seems to me now, looking back, almost a miracle that, in such
conditions, Soal was able to conduct his most famous series of experiments with such
remarkable results. As we reported:
Statistically the [precognitive] results on the whole series [were] highly significant.
Including every single experiment . . . at which an Agent was present, we have a total of
11,378 [precognitive] trials. This total includes tests in both “telepathy” and
“clairvoyance” and tests at all rates of calling and with all Agents; i.e., we include those
conditions which consistently led to negative results as well as conditions which
conducted to success.
The number of [precognitive] successes on this grand total is 2,890 compared with an
expectation of 2,308.17 by Stevens’ method. We thus have an excess of [precognitive]
hits amounting to 581.83 and equivalent to 13.6 Standard Deviations, with odds of more
than 1035
to 1 against chance.
From that time onward, until his death, Soal and I were in correspondence, year after year,
and I have a dozen or more large files filled with the letters we have exchanged and with
material connected with the Shackleton experiments, our joint report on which was entitled
Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy (SPR Proceedings, vol. 47, pp. 22-150).
A few years ago, at my request, Soal sent me some biographical notes about his life and it
is from these notes that I give, for those interested, the following details. Soal was born on
April 29, 1889, at Kirby Moorside, a small town on the edge of the North Yorkshire moors.
In 1895 his parents and his Uncle George moved to Essex where they bought a small
property consisting of a house with two or three fields, near the town of Rochford, about
forty miles from London. He attended Rochford School from 1895 to 1902, but then had an
illness which kept him at home for a year. As a result he almost missed the chance of
competing for a minor county scholarship to a secondary school, for he had just passed his
13th birthday and the regulations made him too old by a few days to send in an entry.
However, his headmaster saw the educational authorities concerned and pleaded with them to
allow Soal to take the examination and they agreed. There were 564 candidates from schools
all over Essex and only ten scholarships. Soal was fourth on the list and, with a scholarship
achieved, then attended the “Technical School” (as it was then called) at nearby Southend-
on-Sea. He was top of the 120 boys and girls at the end of his first year there and was told
that he could therefore skip the second year’s course and proceed at once to the third year
course. He has since regretted this, for he was well aware, he says, that he owed his success
to an excellent memory rather than to real ability in such subjects as chemistry, French,
English literature, etc. His chemistry master used to say, “Except for Harold Page, Soal is my
best student—on paper!” (his fellow-student Harold Page became a most distinguished
agricultural chemist). In 1905 Soal matriculated at London University and became a part-time
student-teacher at Rochford School, while still working at Southend Technical College for his
intermediate science examinations as an external student of London University. He passed
this examination in 1906, taking pure and applied mathematics, physics and chemistry.
Throughout 1906-07 he still worked half-time teaching small boys (a task he hated) at
182
Rochford School, but all his energies were directed towards getting a scholarship at one of
the Schools of London University. The two subjects he offered were chemistry and pure
mathematics, his interest steadily growing in the latter. He knew that in chemistry there
would be no practical examination (at which he would not shine!) so felt safe in taking this
subject. Afterwards he heard from one of the examiners that he had been awarded full marks
in chemistry, with the comment from the examiner that he could not understand why Soal
had not become a chemist. (He could have enlightened him, but did not, said Soal!)
Soal had chosen East London College (now Queen Mary College) to study for his degree.
Having been awarded the desired scholarship, he started work there in October, 1907,
traveling up from Rochford five days a week. He joined a small honors class of six young
men. In 1910 he was one of the only two in the whole university to obtain first class honors
in mathematics. He spent the year 1910-1911 at the Institute of Education and in November,
1911, was given the junior post in the Mathematical Department of his own college.
After the outbreak of war, in the autumn of 1915, he joined the Siege Artillery, where he
felt elementary mathematics would be of use and went to France with a 9.2 howitzer battery
of four guns in August, 1916. Here he found himself in the middle of the Battle of the
Somme and was fully occupied calculating ranges and corrections for the guns. On the
morning after the mines went up on Messines Ridge in the summer of 1917, he went up to the
old front line which was being shelled by the Germans. Here he was wounded in the head and
sent down the line to Rouen and ultimately back to England. When fully recovered he was
posted to the Isle of Wight to instruct cadets in the mathematics of gunnery, a task which he
enjoyed immensely, especially as nobody else in the camp knew anything about it!
When the war ended, Soal was appointed chief instructor in mathematics at the Army
School of Education, Oxford. There were large numbers of young officers who were getting
restive having nothing much to do. So it was decided to “educate” them! Soal realized it was
also necessary to amuse them at the same time. So he took a few practical problems of
everyday life and showed the men how to apply simple trigonometry or simple statistical
methods to their solution. This idea was a great success. Just before Christmas 1918,
however, he received an urgent letter from Queen Mary College saying they were extremely
short of staff and could he return as soon as possible. Soal showed this letter to the head of
the army school who said, “We are extremely pleased at the way you have been doing this
job but it is only right that you should go back to your university. I will arrange for you to be
demobilized at once.” So Soal returned to Q.M.C. in January, 1919, and found to his
amusement that on two mornings a week he had to arrive at the college at 8 A.M. in order to
teach mechanics to a class of young officers awaiting demobilization.
After a few years he was made a senior lecturer and was on the staff of Queen Mary
College until his retirement in 1958—a total period of 47 years, so that he was actually
associated with this college, either as student or teacher, for 51 years. This included the war
years during which he was still a member of the staff though away on active service.
We come now to Soal’s early work with mediums. When he was wounded at the front,
sent back to England and posted to the Isle of Wight, Sir Oliver Lodge had recently published
his famous book “Raymond,” following the death of his son Raymond in the war and
Lodge’s belief that Raymond survived death and had demonstrated this by veridical
communications through mediums to members of his family. A copy of this book was given
to Soal as a present by the cadets he was training and led to his first becoming interested in
psychical research. Soal comments, “I found it difficult to understand how [the medium] Mrs.
Leonard, in view of the precautions taken, could know in any normal way that the Lodge
family possessed a peacock called Mr. Jackson and similar out of the way facts.” Some
183
weeks after reading the book, Soal received a telegram saying that his youngest brother,
Frank Soal, had been killed on the war front near the Somme. He decided that as soon as he
was out of the army he, too, would contact Mrs. Leonard and other mediums in the hope of
receiving similar communications from his brother. He later joined a well-known spiritualist
society in London, the London Spiritualist Alliance (now called The College of Psychic
Studies), attended their meetings for “platform clairvoyance” and after some weeks himself
received a “communication” from the medium Mrs. Annie Brittain which impressed him. He
thereafter had some anonymous sittings with her and got interesting “communications” from
his Uncle George, delivered in the broad Yorkshire dialect which this uncle spoke during his
lifetime. This uncle was, of course, unknown to Mrs. Brittain. He also had two sittings with
Mrs. Leonard in 1922 and 1924, respectively, but neither was of any great interest.
Soal also developed automatic writing himself and the best-known reports resulting from
his automatisms are the “Oscar Wilde Scripts” produced in conjunction with the medium
Hester Travers Smith (Hester Dowden), reviewed by Mrs. Sidgwick in the SPR Proceedings
(vol. 34, pp. 186-196). Another interesting paper in the SPR Proceedings (Vol. 38) is entitled
“Some Automatic Scripts Purporting to be Inspired, by Margaret Veley, Poet and Novelist,
1845-1887.” Mr. V., the automatist of these scripts, is Mr. Soal, as this was the pseudonym
he used for his automatic writings. At that time he feared his college authorities might look
askance at such activities!
The most interesting material of this period came through a so-called “direct-voice”
medium, Mrs. Blanche Cooper, on the staff of The British College of Psychic Science (since
disbanded). Soal’s report on these 1921-1922 sittings with Mrs. Cooper was published in the
SPR Proceedings, vol. 35, pp. 471-594. It is, I think, one of the most curious and interesting
records in existence. He obtained, in the first place, much veridical information purporting to
come from his deceased brother, Frank Soal; then several other “communicators” followed
including one that Soal considered to be a fictitious communicator, giving back to Soal
details which Soal was making up in his own mind. But the “communicator” of outstanding
interest was Gordon Davis, a former schoolmate of Soal’s. He suddenly appeared with the
greeting, “Well, Soal, I never expected to speak to you in this fashion. . . . The dead to the
living. Queer world, what?” He spoke in a voice particularly like his own pedantic way of
speaking and gave many accurate reminiscences of their school days together. But he was
unable to give the address of his wife, merely indicating that it had two E’s and that he was
anxious to send news to her. At the next sitting much detail was given by Gordon Davis via
“Nada,” Mrs. Cooper’s control, about the house in the address with two E’s, its surroundings,
the pictures in the house and other contents of it. Thereafter he was spoken of by Nada only
once more, when she said he was “too far away now” to come again.
Soal had heard a rumor some time before that Gordon Davis had been killed in the war,
but lacking an address he was of course unable to contact Mrs. Davis. The typescripts of all
that Gordon Davis had said were therefore merely filed away, though shown to another
brother of Soal’s, C. W. Soal, who adds his testimony to this effect in the report.
Some three years later Soal heard indirectly that Gordon Davis was alive and practicing as
an estate agent in Southend-on-Sea, where he had been living for about two years on Eastern
Esplanade (note the two E’s given by him in his “communication”). Soal visited him at this
address, typescripts of the sittings in his hand. Mr. Davis told him that he had never been to a
medium in his life; indeed, he said he had always tried to “steer clear” of such things. He
always kept a most meticulous diary of his daily doings, times of interviews of clients, etc.,
and a check with this diary showed that he had never even seen the house in Eastern
Esplanade at the time the two E’s were first mentioned and was at that date living in London.
He inspected the house for the first time with a client two days afterwards, but did not himself
184
move into the house until eleven months later. The pictures he had described as being in the
house were practically all obtained after the dates of his “communications”; two of them
were obtained in 1924, two and a half years after the description of them had been given at
his first appearance in 1922.
Mr. Davis testified as follows: “This matter is extremely surprising to me, as I have never
dabbled in anything to do with psychic science. . . .” He further testified that, “Previous to the
evening of Mr. Soal’s [visit], he had never been in my house. He had never met my wife and
child until the same evening. No letters have ever been exchanged between Mr. Soal and
myself. The description of the house and its interior would not apply to any house in which I
have ever lived except the house in Eastern Esplanade, but this house fits the description
admirably.” Mr. Salter, the SPR Honorary Secretary, also visited Mr. Davis, studied his
diaries and checked for himself the details given in the “communications” to Soal at his
sittings with Mrs. Blanche Cooper. Readers will surely agree with me that this is an
extraordinary and unique record, and those who have not read Soal’s report in the SPR
Proceedings, vol. 35, should do so, as I have only been able in this short description to touch
on the many interesting details.
Soal soon gave up his interest in mediumistic work and dropped his own automatic
writing. He joined the Society for Psychical Research in 1922, shortly after the Blanche
Cooper sittings and thereafter devoted himself entirely to experimental parapsychology with
statistical evaluation. In 1945 he was awarded the D.Sc. by London University for his work
in parapsychology—the first time, Soal thinks, that this distinction was awarded in Britain for
this subject.
It is sad that I should have to end by saying that in recent months Soal’s integrity has been
called in question in a paper by Dr. C. Scott and Dr. P. Haskell in the current S.P.R.
Proceeding: (vol. 56, October, 1974), alleging fraud on Soal’s part during the Shackleton
experiments. Although they have argued to this effect in respect of only 3 out of the 40
sittings, they consider (rightly) that it would have been quite pointless for Soal to cheat in
those three sittings alone, since in all the rest there would remain an enormously high degree
of significance. They therefore conclude that Soal must have also cheated in the other sittings
by various undetected methods. Presumably he would then have also had to cheat in the
following years of experiments with Gloria Stewart, since his Shackleton and Gloria Stewart
experiments belong together. Eight papers in Soal’s defense follow the Scott/Haskell attack,
including those by myself, Dr. J. G. Pratt, Professor Ian Stevenson, Dr. John Beloff (SPR
President) and Professor Mundle (previous SPR President). It is the more unfortunate that
this attack on Soal came when both physically and mentally his condition did not admit of a
reply by himself—indeed, he probably was not aware of it, since his wife asked that the
reports in question and any correspondence on them should not be sent to him. Dr. Scott has
been a friend of mine for many years and I am sure there is no trace of malice or carelessness
in his attack. I think I am right in saying his attitude is one of almost complete skepticism on
all aspects of parapsychology. But I would agree that if he strongly believes there has been
fraud in Soal’s experiments, then it is his duty to the subject to say so.
It must be admitted that Soal has always been psychologically a strange and “difficult”
character. He was normally silent and withdrawn (his letters brought me far nearer to him
than did his company). Again, he stood almost alone in repeatedly obtaining such high
scoring subjects and such curious results as those described above in the Blanche Cooper
sitting; and some might question such extraordinary and repeated “luck” as a satisfactory
explanation. But if he was cheating, as Scott and Haskell maintain, he was asking to be
exposed, for no previous experimenter in Britain had gone to such lengths as Soal did in
inviting so many observers to his experiments and in seeking partners to share the
185
responsibility of devising the best experimental conditions. But one must also remember that
all Soal’s experiments ended as long as twenty years ago and that improved experimental
conditions have become possible since then. I find it difficult to believe that Scott and
Haskell could hold their views had they worked at his side and for so long as I did. Soal
“lived” psychical research throughout most of his waking hours. I was fortunate to have
worked with someone so single-minded and, I cannot but feel, so passionately and sincerely
devoted to his subject.
After Soal’s retirement, he and his wife, Rita, settled in North Wales and he took up with
enthusiasm the hobby of botany. He had always been a keen walker and climber of his
beloved Welsh mountains during holiday periods and could still walk many miles at a stretch
collecting botanical specimens almost up to the age of 80. But in the last few years of his life
his health deteriorated, he suffered from a strained heart, and his doctor ordered complete
rest. In the last year he could do little for himself and was devotedly nursed by his wife. Rita
has written to me two or three times since his death and told me that after a normal evening
supper he went to bed and the following morning she went into his room to offer him a cup of
tea and found him lying across the top of his bed, dead from a fatal heart attack.
Footnote: Lis Warwood adds:
“ I can confirm that the birth and death dates are correct for Samuel George Soal. He
was the son of Samuel Philip Soal (a watchmaker & repairer) and his wife Ellen
Yoward (they had married in North Yorkshire in 1887). In 1891 they and young
Samuel G were living in Kirkby Moorside in the home of George Yoward 56 a Baker
& Confectioner. This was the ‘uncle’ that with Samuel G’s parents moved to a
property called ‘The Apiary’ in Stambridge, Rochford, Essex, where S. G’s father
became for a time at least, a Poultry and Bee Farmer, but by 1911, now living at ‘Old
Rectory,’ Little Stambridge, Rochford, Essex, Samuel Philip Soal is again working
as a watchmaker. S. G. was still living at home, or at least was for part of the time,
although K. M. Goldney’s coverage would suggest otherwise by 1911. S. G. enlisted
in 1915, and did suffer a gunshot wound to his head. His brother Frank (Francis) was
killed September 5, 1918. S. G. Soal married Beatrice Annie Potter in Battersea in
1942. She was significantly younger than him, and died aged 92 in August 1996. It is
unclear why K. M. Goldney would call her “Rita” in the piece.”
—~§~—
186
MY APPROACH TO PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Introductory Note by LP: In
1939, Ernest Oaten secured a
coup for Spiritualism. He
secured permission to publish in
the UK an assessment of survival
evidence by a senior psychical
researcher, Hereward Carrington.
In this, the author gave a brief
account of his own evolution.
Below is taken from: Psychic
Science and Survival: An Essay
in Psychical Research by
Hereward Carrington – Two
Worlds Publishing Company
Ltd, Manchester 1939 pages 27-
33:
—~§~—
Inasmuch as it has so often been
contended, by those ignorant of
the facts, that the majority of
psychical researchers are
emotionally interested in proving
survival—usually for some
personal motive and that they
possess a strong “will to believe”
the spiritualistic theory, a brief
account should perhaps be given
of the manner of my own entry
into this peculiar ﬁeld of activity,
and my subsequent reactions and
attitude toward it—even if by so
doing a certain amount of autobiographical material must inevitably be introduced. In view of
the circumstances, however, I trust that this will be excused, inasmuch as it is rendered
inevitable by the very nature of the case, and the necessity of furnishing the psychological
data essential for estimating my own mental background, qualifications, motives and
reactions. With this necessary apology, therefore, I proceed to give these data as brieﬂy as
possible.
All my life, as long as I can remember, I have been interested in conjuring and magic. My
father had likewise been interested for some years before my birth, and had spent ten years in
India. When I was a boy he gave me a quantity of magical apparatus, together with several
books dealing with the subject. One or two of these dealt with fraudulent spiritualistic tricks,
so that I might say that I have really been indirectly in touch with the subject as long as I can
remember. However, at the age of eighteen, I became seriously interested, as the result of
reading The Revelations of a Spirit Medium, Robinson’s Spirit Slate Writing, and other
books of a like nature. The result was that I delved deeply into the fraudulent aspect of the
subject, and for many months thought that anyone who believed in this “stuff” simply did not
187
know how the tricks were done, and that I was particularly clever and did. Many magicians
today hold the same view!
Then, I happened to pick up a book by Miss X.3
—Essays in Psychical Research. Herein
were narrated a number of striking instances which had occurred, as personal experiences of
the author. Nevertheless they were told in a calm, objective tone, by one who did not in any
way stress the spiritualistic viewpoint, but on the contrary seemed rather to avoid it. At all
events, the book made a deep impression upon me at the time. I thought to myself, “If anyone
seemingly as sane and sensible as this can vouch for the genuineness of psychic phenomena,
and state that she herself has experienced them, there may be something in the subject after
all. I shall join the Society for Psychical Research, read, experiment and see!”
I accordingly joined that Society when I was nineteen, plunged into the Proceedings and
Journals, and metaphorically did not remove my nose from them for six months. I read every
available book upon the subject I could lay my hands on— pro and con—attended séances,
experimented with amateur mediums; and in short began that intensive investigation of the
subject which has continued without intermission ever since—a period of more than thirty-
nine years.
Looking back on this period of my life, I cannot but be struck by its apparent
incongruities, as well as by the promiscuous collection of books read by me at the time—
some of them, one might think, of no applicable value, but every one of them (I believe)
serving a useful purpose in the foundation of the ediﬁce of psychic knowledge which I was
attempting to build. Here was I, living for weeks at a time on five and ten cents a day, in
order that I might have free time to spend all day and all night in the library,4
reading such
books as Chaldean Magic, Isis Unveiled, The Gypsies, Rope Ties and Knots,
Swedenborg’s Arcana, Cælestia, The History of Imposture and Credulity, Spirit
Teachings, Juggling Secrets, How to Take Good Photographs, The Dynamics of
Magnetism, Psychotherapy, How to Train Animals, Life and Death, and a thousand-and-
one seemingly unrelated topics—every one of which, however, proved of interest and value,
as subsequent history showed.
My intensive reading of that period forced me to several tentative conclusions. These
were: (a) The earnestness, sincerity, candor and caution of the S.P.R. workers; (b) The
importance of the investigation, from any standpoint whatsoever; (c) the virtual certitude of
telepathy, and one or two related phenomena, and (d) the very unsettled and unconvincing
state of spiritualistic phenomena, taken as a whole.
My somewhat negative reaction to Spiritualism and spiritistic manifestations was, I think,
quite justified and quite natural, in view of my early training and my initiation into this
subject. A number of the mediums I investigated during that time were palpably fraudulent,
while the credulity of many of the devout followers disgusted me. Even an amateur training
in science makes one critical, and the trend of science at that time was, as we know, strongly
mechanistic.
Again, the character of one’s early religious training doubtless plays an important part—
probably largely subconscious—in one’s viewpoint and degree of receptiveness toward the
3
Miss X was Ada Goodrich Freer. She may have been less objective than she appeared. See the discussion of
her work in Trevor Hamilton’s Immortal Longings http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf; and F.W. H.
Myers’ Victorian Search for Life after Death, 2009.
4
Minneapolis, Minn.—by strange fatality remarkably well stocked with psychic and occult books, at that time
(1899).
188
idea of survival and the general doctrine of “immortality.” The majority of persons of the last
generation probably had had a more or less orthodox training in traditional Christian dogma.
They therefore tended to accept, as a matter of course, the general idea of the soul and its
survival; and if, in later life, they felt compelled to give this up, it was at the cost of much
inner suffering—necessitating emotional turmoil and inner wrenches of no mean order. Any
objection such individuals might have to the doctrine of Spiritualism probably rested, for the
most part, on Biblical utterances and religious bigotry.
In my own case, I am thankful to say, such inner turmoils had never been necessitated.
Both my parents were (I believe) Agnostics, and at all events no dogmatic Christianity had
ever been “forced down my throat,” during my early years. My father had spent some ten
years in India (in the service of the British Admiralty), and both he and my mother were, I am
inclined to think, more Buddhistic than anything else. At all events, they took the stand that,
just because I happened to be born in a “Christian” country, I need not necessarily be a
Christian when I grew up. I might become a Buddhist, or a Confucian, or a Mohammedan, or
anything else for that matter. The result was that I grew up quite detached from any religion,
seeing some good and much bad in all of them; more or less a rationalist at heart, with little
conﬁdence in the reality of any spiritual world. Moreover, perhaps on that account, I did not
feel, and have never felt, that deep longing for personal survival which so many experience.
To me it has always been merely a question of evidence, whether survival be a fact or not,
and I personally regard it from what I believe to be an entirely detached and impersonal
viewpoint—much as I should regard any problem in physics or chemistry.
It is merely a question of whether the facts prove survival or whether they do not. This
being so, I have perhaps an advantage over certain psychic investigators, whose subconscious
bent inclines them either in one direction or the other.
As a result of my investigations, however, I have become quite convinced that psychic
phenomena are for the most part real—that is, they are genuinely supernormal in character—
and that there is a superphysical world of some sort in which we are all immersed, and of
which we constitute a part. And this conviction is, I believe, shared by all those who have
investigated this subject at first hand, and for a considerable period of time.
Our critics are, for the most part, men who have read little or nothing upon the subject,
and who have not attended a single séance with a reputable medium. In this subject, one must
have inﬁnite patience. It is useless to attend a trumpery séance or two, and conclude that the
whole thing is not worthwhile. Personally, I sat with mediums producing “physical
phenomena” for eight years before seeing what I considered to be the first genuine case. I cite
this merely to show the amount of perseverance necessary; however, that ﬁrst genuine case
was worth all the years of waiting and fruitless experimenting—just as a chemist may work a
life-time before discovering some correct formula. No one would contend, in his case, that
the years of work had been “wasted,” or that he was a “fool” for devoting so much time to
fruitless toil. I believe it is the same here; and that this field also yields scientiﬁc results of
enormous importance, once they have been unearthed and discovered.
Many of our most eminent scientists have devoted a considerable part of their time to the
investigation of these phenomena, and the long list of ex-presidents of the parent Society is
an imposing one. Among these we may mention: Prof. Henry Sidgwick, Prof. Balfour
Stewart, The Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, Prof. William James, Sir William Crookes, Sir William
Barrett, Prof. Charles Richet, Mr. Andrew Lang, Prof. Henri Bergson, Prof. F. C. S. Schiller,
Prof. Gilbert Murray, Dr. L. P. Jacks, Prof. William McDougall, Lord Rayleigh, M. Camille
Flammarion, Prof. Hans Driesch, Dr. Walter F. Prince, Bishop Boyd Carpenter, Sir Oliver
Lodge, and many others known for their work in this special field.
189
It is, I think, safe to say that all these men were quite convinced of the actuality of genuine
psychic phenomena—though there are naturally quite differing opinions as to the ultimate
interpretations of these phenomena. That, however, is a matter of secondary importance.
Membership in the Society does not imply any particular attitude toward the facts, and widely
differing opinions are often expressed concerning them. This is also true of our American
Psychical Institute, the first one of its “Declaration of Principles” reading: “Membership in
the A.P.I. shall not be held to indicate any particular belief in or interpretation of psychical
phenomena.” It is greatly to be regretted that this spirit does not at present seem to pervade
the American S.P.R., where facts and opinions contrary to the beliefs of its officers are
sometimes debarred from publication in the documents of that Society.
The standard of evidence maintained by most Societies is, however, exceptionally high,
and is invariably subjected to the fullest analysis and criticism—largely from members.
—~§~—
190
MERCY PHILLIMORE
Introductory Note by LP: Mercy Phillimore has been a great help to students of the
pioneers, because as a typist she made many notes of séance and other events in the psychic
field, some of which are preserved in the CPS archives. Her younger colleague Ruby
Yeatman, who had also been librarian and principal, similarly took care of the CPS library,
deliberately collecting for example, fugitive pamphlets. It was Ruby who welcomed me to
the College staff in 1968 as a receptionist /clerk earning £750 pounds a year! I carried out the
day-to-day of the library and archives; and minded the Reception desk on two evenings a
week.
Below is taken from Light Autumn 1975 Vol. 95 No. 3 pages 135-138:
Obituary
On Tuesday, April 23rd5
, there passed from this world’s scene one of the most brilliant
women workers in the field of Psychical Research and Spiritualism—Mercy Phillimore—at
one time Librarian and subsequently Secretary of the London Spiritualist A1liance—now re-
named the College of Psychic Studies.
She came to the L.S.A. (as it was popularly known) in 1913 at the request of the late
Dawson Rogers, a well-known London journalist who, with the Rev. William Stainton Moses
(M.A., Oxon), was one of the Founders of the Alliance. She came, she told me, as a joke
intending to stay only six months. She remained thirty-nine years until she retired in 1952.
During those years the L.S.A. expanded steadily and became recognised as the leading
Spiritualist society, although at no time did the society regard Spiritualism as a religion but
rather, in the words of F. W. H. Myers, “as the preamble to all religions.”
“M. P.,” as she was affectionately known, succeeded Mr. Henry Withall as Secretary, but
only the older members amongst those who are left will remember the golden haired dynamic
personality of the young “M.P.” Others will remember her as the very digniﬁed Queen
Victoria ﬁgure of the thirties and forties; indeed, many members openly called her “Queen
Victoria.” The writer worked with her for nineteen years and knew her well, not only in her
official capacity but socially when together we enjoyed the many gay functions to which we
were invited.
Whilst moving with the times, “M.P.” steadfastly upheld the traditions of the Founders
and under her aegis the L.S.A. was recognised as a reliable organisation to which the
Authorities could turn with conﬁdence for information on all matters connected with psychic
phenomena. Her articles in Light, the journal of the L.S.A., were eagerly read by members
and enquirers alike. They dealt with many aspects of Psychical Research and Spiritualism
since her experience, as well as detailed knowledge of both physical and mental mediumship
was unsurpassed. Furthermore, she had the gift of being able to express her views easily and
lucidly. It was due to her foresight and acumen that Light, which had at one period been taken
over by the publishers, Hutchinson & Co. Ltd., became once more the property of the
Alliance.
5
Lis Warwood notes: Nat. Probate Cal. Index of Wills and Administrations records Mercy Phillimore of Mount
Alvernia, Bramshott Chase, Hindhead died 22 April 1975 – not April 23.
191
“M.P.’s” very deep understanding of the psychology of mediumship, coupled with natural
wisdom, stood her in good stead in handling all types of mediumistic problems, and many a
budding medium had cause to remember her with gratitude, whilst those fully trained and
qualiﬁed beneﬁted more than once from her wise advice.
The world famous medium, Eileen Garrett, was ﬁrst introduced to Miss Phillimore by
Mrs. F. R. Maude (whose husband was at one time a President of the College), and Mrs.
Garrett attended her ﬁrst Spiritualist meeting at the Alliance, becoming a member of the
Society. Miss Phillimore introduced her to Huhnli, the magician, so that he might help her in
the development of her psychic power. He gave her free development and training for a year.
Mrs. Garrett had regular sittings at the L.S.A., but Huhnli was the true discoverer and
developer of her mediumship before she ﬁnally went to Mr. Hewat McKenzie for further
development and training.
The lecture room was always ﬁlled to capacity when Mercy Phillimore was the speaker
and her prowess in argument and discussion was a source of delight and some amusement for
she had a great sense of humour. Mrs. F. E. Leaning, at one time a member of the Council
(and author of an outstanding paper on hypnagogic vision) told me that on one occasion when
she was present listening to Miss Phillimore in discussion with noted scientists arguing on the
Survival question, not only did she cap all their arguments but she succeeded in completely
silencing them!
She was one of those attending the Archbishop of Canterbury’s Committee on
Spiritualism. It was possibly largely due to her quiet but emphatic statements of facts, and her
wise answers to questions (in accordance with the Terms of Reference), which resulted in a
majority verdict in favour. In an article in Light of July 11th, 1940, Miss Phillimore
comments on the Bishops’ Decision Against Publication of the Committee’s Report.
During the course of her work she met many well-known people, amongst whom were: A.
E. Waite, W. B. Yeats, Mrs. Bernard Shaw, Stanley de Brath, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Sir
Lawrence Jones, Bart., Clifford Bax, Lord Charles Hope, Algernon Blackwood, Sir Cyril
Atkinson, K.C., Sir Wemyss Grant Wilson, Paul Brunton and one for whom she had the
greatest admiration and veneration, Sir Oliver Lodge, O.M.
Possessed of a fine intellect and great personal charm, which drew many people to her
who became life-long friends, she nevertheless did not suffer fools gladly and had no
patience with the muddleheaded and over-sentimental. She was an indefatigable worker and
never spared herself to help those in need, or to promote the best interests of the Alliance in
one way or another. One particular instance springs to mind when she, and the Hon.
Treasurer, Captain Arthur Carnell, gave unstintingly of their free time—after a full day’s
work—to organise the wonderful, unique bazaar held in the Caxton Hall. In addition to the
many colourful stalls, competitions and usual attractions of such an affair, a room was set
aside for exhibits associated with psychic work and psychic phenomena, many of these
exhibits having been searched for and brought from abroad. The bazaar attracted large
crowds of people and the months of hard work resulted in a great success realising the large
sum, for those days, of £1,000.
It should also be added that she ﬁrmly held to the truth of Survival and the possibility, in
certain conditions, of communication with the departed.
After her retirement as Secretary, Miss Phillimore was co-opted a member of the Council
on which she served for a time.
192
“M.P.” was indeed a bright and brilliantly shining star in the psychic ﬁrmament. In her
day she was without equal.
As one of her closest friends recently wrote me:—
“And all the trumpets shall sound for her on the Other Side.”
RUBY YEATMAN.
—~§~—
193
Introductory Note by LP: Between the world wars, psychical research flourished in Europe,
but as the 1930s went on, the sky darkened. [Note the early reference to “non-Aryan” descent
on p.194 Dr Gerda Walther survived the Nazi regime, and was active in post-war research.6
This article is also notable for its attention to higher education.
Below is taken from: American Society for Psychical Research Journal Vol. 28 March 1934
pages 61-66. Readers will note that some countries are not given their English names.
PROGRESS OF PSYCHIC RESEARCH
IN EUROPE
By DR. GERDA WALTHER
It was a very great honour and pleasure to me when Dr. Dietz of Leyden University asked me
to repeat my lecture on the development of Rudi Schneider’s mediumship and my
experiences with him (which I had delivered (in German) to the Dutch S. P. R. in the Hague
for his students at that university. He ceded an hour of his college time on physical
phenomena to me for that purpose. The college is held in the great auditory of the botanical
institute of Leyden, and Prof. Baes Becking, the director of that institute, kindly welcomed
me. He told me in ﬂuent English, that he was quite ready to accept psychical phenomena if
they were really established, and that he had even given an alleged magnetopath an
opportunity to show the inﬂuence of his “ﬂuids” on the growth of plants. Unfortunately the
result of these experiments was entirely negative, but he was quite ready to try again with the
same or another—perhaps better gifted person. Although I spoke in German about 80-85
students attended my lecture, among whom I noticed several Japanese, and their questions
afterwards showed me, how deeply they were interested, especially also in the theoretical
explanation of psychical phenomena, not only in their reality and the methods of control by
which they are established.
Now Dr. Tenhaeff, who has already been assistant of Prof. Roels at the psychological institute
of Utrecht University for some years, has been appointed as second official lecturer on
psychical research at the University of Utrecht, where he had already before delivered some
lectures on psychics. (Dr. Tenhaeff is also well-known as lecturer on psychical research in
the Dutch radio and Dutch People’s Universities.) On December 4th 1933 he delivered his
inaugural lecture on “the apparition of ghosts.” (I will review this in detail in my Continental
Notes.) So now Holland as the first country in Europe, nay, in the world, has already got two
official readerships on psychical research!
Besides some other professors at Dutch Universities are more or less interested in psychical
research, and—the same as in other countries—mention it in their lectures on other things
connected with psychics (theology, psychology, psychotherapy etc.). I have already
mentioned the benevolent attitude of Prof. Baes Becking. Another Dutch scientist, Dr. M. C.
van Mourik Broekman, professor of theology at the University of Utrecht, president of the
Dutch S. P. R., has often lectured on the importance of this new science, the same is the case
with Dr. A. H. de Hartog, professor of theology at Amsterdam University. Both regard
psychical research as an auxiliary science for theology.
6
Dr. Gerda Walther: http://womenandphilosophyproject.blogspot.co.uk/2013/04/gerda-walther-1897-1977.html
194
One of the founders of the Dutch S. P. R., late Prof. G. Heymans, the well-known philosopher
and psychologist of Groningen University, conducted some very interesting telepathic
experiments together with Dr. H. J.W. F. W. Brugmans in the psychological laboratory of
Groningen University already in 1920 with a psychically gifted student Mr. van Dam as
medium (published as communication No. 1 of the Dutch S. P. R. In 1921). Also Dr. G. van
Rijnberk, professor of physiology at the University of Amsterdam, who had the kindness to
invite me to his home in order to discuss psychics with me, is greatly interested in psychical
research, though very critical. In his “Nederl. Tijdschrift voor Geneeskunde” (a well-known
medical journal in Holland) he has published a series of articles on modern investigations of
mediums.
Thus Holland still is the only country in Europe possessing ofﬁcially appointed lecturers on
psychical research. In all other countries however there are also official scientists interested
in it. The development of occultism into scientiﬁc psychical research in Germany has already
been published in this journal in the articles of late Baron v. Schrenck-Notzing. As will be
remembered, Prof. A. Ludwig of the Catholic High-School in Freising near Munich was the
first to lecture on psychics in spring 1919, in the same year Prof. Osterreich of Tubingen
University also lectured on psychical research. Dr. Engert, professor of theology at the
Catholic High-school in Dillingen on the Danube followed this example in 1920, professors
at other Catholic High-schools or theologians (mostly catholic) at universities are also
interested in psychics (thus e.g. Prof. Scherer at the Catholic High-school in Passau, Prof.
Eberle at the Catholic High-schoolin Dillingen, Prof. theol. Walter at the University of
Munich, Prof. A. Mager, Benedictine, of Salzburg, Prof. A. Gatterer, S. J. of Innsbruck etc.).
As can be seen from the articles of Dr. v. Schrenck-Notzing there were also many non-
theological German professors, mostly philosophers, who interested themselves for psychics
and partly lectured on it. The present situation however is, that now Prof. Verweyen of Bonn
is the only professor who lectures on psychics in Germany. In 1933 his pupil Dr. Bender took
his degree as doctor at Bonn University with a psychic investigation. (It will be published in
the Dutch Tijdschrift and I will review it then.) All the other professors in Germany, who
treated on psychical research in their colleges have resigned their lectureships or been
dismissed last year out of various reasons, e.g. age, non-Aryan descent, “paciﬁst” views etc.
(thus Prof. Driesch, Prof. Osterreich, Prof. Dessoir, Prof. Messer).
In Switzerland, as far as I could ﬁnd out, there is no official lecturer-ship in psychics either.
But famous scientists, as the psychiatrist Prof. Bleuler of Zurich and the renowned
psychoanalyst Jung are deeply interested in psychical research and have themselves
investigated some mediums. The co-editor of the German “Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie”
Dr. Bernoulli, is lecturer at the polytechnical school in Zurich.
In Austria the protestant theologians Prof. R. Hoffman and Prof. Entz, both at Vienna
University, deal with psychical research as an auxiliary science of theology. Prof. Karl
Camillo Schneider (biologist, Vienna) lectured on psychical research in special colleges.
Recently he has been dismissed because he shot at a colleague of his at a funeral, whom he
thought to be his enemy (he was exculpated as not being quite sane). Other Austrian
scientists, as especially Prof. Thirring (physicist at Vienna University) are greatly interested
in psychics and have also investigated mediums without however lecturing on psychical
research.
In Czecho-Slovakia Dr. O. Fischer, professor of psychiatry at Prague University, well-known
through his investigations of the clairvoyant graphologers R. Scherman and O. Reimann, is
the only scientist who lectures on psychics in special colleges. Other scientists, such as
Mikuska, Dr. P fleger, Dr. K. Kuchynka also occupy themselves with this domain there.
195
In Yugoslavia there is a psychical research society of the Russian students of Belgrade
University, which also arranges non-official lectures and courses on psychics, and
investigates mediums. It intends to hold an exhibition this spring, which is to show the
progress of psychical research in the world.
In Hungaria the theologian Prof. Jos. Triklal, in 1930 dean of the theological faculty of
Budapest University, is deeply interested in psychical research and has recently published a
very good and objective book on “occultism and philosophy.”
In Greece three years ago Dr. Th. Voreas, professor of psychology at the University of
Athens, introduced experiments of thought transference into that university. The Greek S. P.
R. was asked to help him to ﬁnd some adequate mediums for this purpose and Dr. Tanagra,
president of the Greek S. P. R., brought him four of the best mediums of the society, so that
the telepathic experiments conducted in the psychological laboratory of the university were
very successful. Besides Prof. Voreas three other renowned Greek scientists and professors of
the University of Athens are members of the Council of the Greek S. P. R.: Prof. Katsaras
(neurology), Prof. Livieratos (pathology) and Prof. Bensis (pathology).
In Italy the late Prof. Santoliquido, successor of Prof. Pagliani as general director of Italian
public hygiene, president of the international hygienical office in Paris, technical counsellor
of the international Red Cross, for several years president of the Institut Métapsychique in
Paris, proposed officially to introduce psychical research into the Italian universities.
Unfortunately this was prevented by his premature death in November 1930. Strange enough
Sig. M. A. Marzorati, the late editor of the Italian psychical journal “Luce e ombra” (now
“Revista psichica”) was against this project, because he feared that a lecturer on psychical
research would be in danger of putting forth things in a too one sided manner, be it only from
the spiritualist, or only from the animistical point of view. (Cp. C.de Vesme “L’enseignement
officiel de la Métapsychie” in “Psychica” of Nov. 15th 1933.) As the case of Dr. Dietz and
Dr. Tenhaeff and other scientists lecturing on psychics shows, this danger seems to have been
very much exaggerated by Sig. Marzorati. The project of Prof. Santoliquido has not been
taken up again since his death, though, as in other countries, there are some official scientists
who personally interest themselves in psychical research in a more or less positive way, (e.g.
Prof. E. Sorge from the University of Naples) but they do not seem to have the inﬂuence and
energy of Prof. Santoliquido. Mussolini himself is supposed to have some sympathies for
psychics, so perhaps in some near future one may hope Italy will follow the example of the
Netherlands. Already now Prof. Cazzamalli, teacher of neurology and psychiatry in Milan
and Rome, with a special laboratory for the investigation of cerebral radiations of his own in
Como, also deals with psychical research in his colleges.
It is well known, that, with regard to France, Prof. Richet dealt with psychics in his lectures,
in fact his last lecture before his discharge was on psychics. Besides of course many scientists
are interested in the work of Dr. Osty and the Institut Métapsychique and assist at its
investigations, yet there is no official psychical readership in France. However a number of
well-known French scientists are members of the council of the Institut Métapsychique, e.g.
Dr. Calmetter, Prof. Leclainche (from the Institut de France, chief of the sanitary services at
the Agricultural Office), Dr. Cuneo (professor of surgery, member of the Medical Academy),
Dr. Fr. Moutier (chief of the Laboratoire la Faculté de Médecine, Paris) Dr. I (or J.). Ch.
Roux and others.
In Belgium there is no official readership on psychics either but some scientists are interested
in them, e.g. Prof. Bessemans, the present rector of the University of Ghent, who however
holds rather negative views concerning the reality of psychical phenomena.
196
In Poland, as I hear, the political leaders of that nation are sympathically interested in
psychical research, but here official scientists are against it, so that their prejudices would
have to be overcome even if the authorities would be inclined to establish readerships on
psychical research there.
In Lettonia Prof. Blacker (experimental chemist) of Riga University has investigated
psychical phenomena (especially apport mediums) for many years and also lectured on
psychical questions occasionally.
In Russia, as will be known, psychical research is strictly forbidden officially by the
government. When a renowned Russian scientist, a pre-war friend of Dr. Osty, wrote to him
and asked how psychical research was developing, Dr. Osty sent him his report of his
investigations of Rudi Schneider in the “Revue Métapsychique.” The parcel came back with
an official remark, saying that “such literature” was forbidden in Russia!
In Finland there exists a psychical research society, which was founded already in 1907. Its
first president was A. Grotenfeldt, professor of philosophy at Helsingfors University. His
successor was the Rector Uno Stadius. This society is collecting important material on cases
of spontaneous psychical phenomena in Finland, which is to be published in book-form some
day.
In the Scandinavian Countries also many scientists are interested in psychical research, but
there too no ofﬁcial readerships exist at present. At the University of Copenhagen Prof.
Rosin, director of the laboratory for experimental psychology, has often expressed himself
against psychics publicly. His (non-ofﬁcial, I believe) assistant Mr. Faustinus has lectured
and written a great deal on psychics, mostly against them. He played a great part in the
exposure of the medium Einer Nielsen in Oslo in 1922. Prof. Chr. Winther of the
polytechnical school of Copenhagen on the other hand has investigated several mediums in
his own laboratory. His interesting experiments with the medium Mrs. Anna Rasmussen have
been published this Journal. He has founded a Danish S. P. R. in 1905. In Iceland the
protestant theologian Prof, Haraldur Nielsson of Reykjavik University was greatly interested
in psychical research. He investigated some mediums (especially late Mr. Indri Indridason)
and published some treatises on psychical problems (partly in connection with religious
questions). I have not been able to find out whether other scientists in Iceland have followed
his example after his death.
In Norway one of the founders and for many years the president of the Norwegian S. P. R.
was Dr. O. Jaeger, professor of national economy at Oslo University, who died last autumn.
Owing to his activity the library and the rooms of the Norwegian S. P. R. are in the building
of Oslo university and several Norwegian scientists are members of its council, e.g. Dr.
Wereide (physicist at Oslo University), who is also the editor of the journal of the society.
In Sweden late Prof. Sidney Alrutz of Upsala of University was actively interested in
psychical research. After his death there was no professor who investigated psychical
phenomena as he did, though some of them are interested in them in a more platonic way.
However there has just been founded an international university-circle for the investigation of
psychical phenomena by members of “Svenska Centralen for Psykisk Forskning.” It is called
“Internationella Universitets-Kretsen” and Selma Lagerlof, the famous Swedish novelist, is
its honorary president. The international secretary of this new foundation is Mrs. Eira
Hellberg, the editor of the new journal “Ur det okandas varld” (cp. Journal Am. S. P. R.,
December issue 1933, p. 360). The purpose of this society is to spread psychical information
in all countries, and communicate with scientists interested in psychics there, who perhaps
don’t want their names to be published in connection with psychical research. Another
197
organisation, mostly consisting of academical graduates, called “Fritt Forum” is closely
connected with “Universitets Kretsen.” It has paying members and representatives in all
countries (e.g. Prof. Richet in Paris, Mr. Harry Price in London, Dr. R. Tischner in Munich,
Prof. R. Hoffman in Vienna) and a special fund—called “Schrenck-Notzing fond”—for the
investigation of mediums. It will also publish interesting reports on psychical experiments
now and then. (Nr. 1 by Mrs. Eira Hellberg has already come out with the title “Thought
engravings.” It deals with Dr. Osty’s experiments with Rudi Schneider and Mme. Kahl
Toucholka, Upton Sinclair’s experiments with his wife, Mrs. Silbert, Kluski, Prof. Fukurai’s
experiments with some Japanese mediums and contains many illustrations.) Members of
“Fritt Forum” are to be admitted to sittings with mediums in every country where there are
other representatives of this organisation. The future will have to show how much this new
organisation can achieve. Some continental researchers and societies did not join it, because
they say the Swedish group has elected itself as international representative on its own
account and because they regard Mrs. Hellberg as being over-active, very ambitious and
unreliable. (I don’t know her personally. G. W.) Such groups and persons standing aloof are
amongst others: the S. P. R. in London, the Dutch S. P. R., the Norwegian S. P. R., Prof.
Blacher of Riga, Dr. Sunner (editor of the “Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie”), and myself.—
Concerning other countries not situated on the European Continent I am not well informed.
Only regarding South-America the September-October-issue 1933 of the Revue
Métapsychique contains a short note saying that two renowned scientists of the University of
Buenos Aires, Prof. Joseph S. Fernandez (physicist) and Dr. E. del Ponte (biologist) have
founded a society called “Atman” there, which is to investigate psychical phenomena. Prof.
del Pote also deals with psychical research in his ofﬁcial lecture at the University of Buenos
Aires. It is to be hoped that other savants in South-America—and indeed, in the entire
world,—will do the same, so that in some near future there will also be appointed official
readerships on psychical research all over the world.
—~§~—
198
Introductory Note by LP: Spiritual experiences can alter the course of history. Spiritualists
will recall Joan of Arc, whom Conan Doyle regarded as second only to Jesus. But Annie
Besant, president of the Theosophical society whose headquarters are at Adyar, India, also
had a major impact – on India a century ago, a result of paranormal experiences, as can be
seen from the account below.
Taken from: The Theosophist 1929 vol. 51 pages 148-151.
FROM PEACE TO POWER
BY ANNIE BESANT, D.L.
LIFTING THE VEIL
THERE is a story in the Hebrew
Bible that when a servant of the
Prophet Elisha who fled with his
master from his enemies—two
against a host—cried out to him of
their defencelessness, the calm
Prophet prayed that the man’s eyes
might be opened. The prayer was
heard, and the servant saw, with
joyous amazement, that their place of
refuge was surrounded by horses and
chariots of fire. So is it to-day with
disarmed and therefore apparently
helpless India. She seems to be in the
grip of an iron grasp: but while she
only sees and feels the grip, were the
eyes but opened, she would see the
Devas round her, would hear the
Gandharvas’ joyous chant of victory,
for the rule of the Empire of Force is
crumbling, and the Day of the
Federation of Free Nations has
dawned.
When the Great Messenger from
the White Lodge landed in India, she brought in her strong hand the Charter of India’s
Freedom. Russian by birth, she had become naturalized in the Republic of the West, which
had, a century before, broken the chains that Britain strove to fasten on her mighty limbs. Her
colleague was American-born, and the constitution of the Society which was to become
world-wide, was framed by him on the model of that created by the Fathers of the Republic,
aided by Hands which had become liberated and immortal.
Helena Petrovna Blavatsky quickly began the great task assigned to her—the destruction
of triumphant materialism. Alone she stood in her unbreakable knowledge, a knowledge of
the Laws of Nature belonging to the subtler worlds. With these she fought her giant foe, and
slew him.
199
But a stronger enemy barred her onward way—the apathy of the people she came to
enlighten, and through them to enlighten the world. They admired her, they became proud of
their past, they held up their heads. But even she, aided by her Guru and His Brothers, could
not stir them to united action. In vain was the effort made to found a paper through which the
clarion note of Freedom might ring over India. Even one of her patriots said: “India is dead;
you cannot wake her.” At last, H. P. B.’s Guru, who in the past had ruled over India,
recognized the hopelessness of the task, and, as she wrote, “retired in deep displeasure.”
H. P. B. was practically driven from India, and went to Europe, seeking a colleague whom
she knew. She wrote her great work, The Secret Doctrine, and found her colleague, Annie
Besant, who became her pupil in their new bodies, and led her to the Guru who was also her
own. This colleague brought to the service of India trained political methods, guided by
experience and by fighting side by side with that great warrior for freedom, Charles
Bradlaugh. A little later she went Home, leaving her pupil to carry on the work of thoroughly
arousing the Indian spirit. Colonel Olcott had revived Buddhism and Zoroastrianism; he
encouraged his new colleague in the revival of Hinduism and passed away. His Guru
materialized by his bedside, ere he passed, and bade him name Annie Besant as his successor
in the Presidency of the Theosophical Society. She was loath to leave her educational work,
the Central Hindu School and College, for which she hoped to obtain a Royal Charter from
John Morley, the then Secretary of State for India, with whom she had discussed the subject,
but her Guru bade her accept the duty; and she, of course, obeyed, and was duly elected as
President in 1907.
A very important step forward is now being taken in the struggle for India’s liberty. India
cannot deliver her message to the world while she continues in subjection to a foreign rule,
and is looked down upon by all free peoples as a “dependency” of Britain. The preparation
was begun in 1875, when the great Messenger of the White Lodge, H. P. B., was sent out into
our world to perform her splendid work, the destruction of materialism as a philosophy of
life. With her brave colleague, Colonel H. S. Olcott, she the Teacher, he the organizer, the
work was carried on. In the Theosophical Society, color ceased to be a badge of inferiority,
and Universal Brotherhood was recognized as the Law of Life. The two colleagues associated
with Indians on an equal footing, and constantly taught that the World-Teachers were
Easterns. The men who planned the Indian National Congress were members of the
Theosophical Society. In 1891, I was sent by H. P. B. to America to meet W. Q. Judge there,
one of her best disciples, and he and I carried on the occult tradition in the E. S., the Heart of
the Society. Very soon I entered into the political life of India, working for her Freedom, and
in 1913 opened my part of the campaign with lectures on Social Reform.
It was in 1913 that I first came into direct conscious touch with the Rshi Agastya, the
Regent of India in the Inner Government. He desired me to form a small band of people who
were brave enough to defy wrong social customs such as premature betrothal and marriage.
This was done, and carrying out His wishes, I gave some lectures that autumn on Social
Reform, published under the title of “Wake Up, India”. These prepared the way for the
desired political reform, and this was started in that same year by the resolve to begin a
weekly newspaper, The Commonweal, in January, 1914. To guide me in its conduct, I was
summoned to Shamballa,7
where still abide the King and His three Pupils, the “four
7
This city is in the Gobi Desert. Its outskirts have been partially uncovered by an American expedition. But I do
not think they will find the White Island, with its great white marble Temple where abide “The Four”. It is there
the great gathering takes place every seven years that H.P.B. speaks of in Isis Unveiled, and which I have
attended.
200
Kumāras” of the Indian Scriptures, He the Eldest. There I was given what I always call “my
marching orders”:
You will have a time of trouble and danger. I need not say: have no fear; but have no
anxiety. Do not let opposition become angry. Be firm but not provocative. Press steadily
the preparation for the coming changes, and claim India’s place in the Empire. The end
will be a great triumph. Do not let it be stained by excess. Remember that you represent
in the outer world the Regent, who is My Agent. My Hand will be over you, and My
Peace with you.
These words necessarily mark out the policy I follow. India to be within the Empire, but
free. This is only possible by winning Dominion Status. To win it means that India becomes
free within her own territory, but in a Federation, not in isolation, as C. R. Das put it. It
means the avoidance of a War of Color, of Asia against Europe. It means the Peace of the
World, the necessary addition to Mr. MacDonald’s splendid efforts to make a lasting pact
with the United States. The two countries will be as the two pillars of Solomon’s Temple,
Boaz and Jachin. At present Britain’s Rule over colored peoples is an increasing menace to
the Peace of the World. In twelve years the “Awakening of Asia,” of which I spoke, in my
Presidential Speech in the Indian National Congress, has become “The Revolt of Asia,” the
significant title of a traveller’s book, recording what he saw as he visited Asiatic countries.
(To be continued)
[No continuation of this fragment was published. When this first part of it appeared
Annie Besant was very old and (some claim) already broken up by the defection of
Krishnamurti from his role as vehicle for the World Teacher. It can readily be seen
however that she had been guided in her political activities by some inner
experiences (possibly mediated at times through a third party.) Her hopes for India
were not entirely fulfilled, as a more militant Indian nationalism came to the fore.
For another account by her of how she was led to espouse Indian political work, see
http://www.anandgholap.net/AP/Work_Of_Ruler_And_Teacher-AB.htm
LP.
—~§~—
201
Introductory Note by LP: The reminiscence below was written by the painter Isabelle De
Steiger.8
She later included another version of her psychic experiences in her Memorabilia
(1927). Isabelle was a typical example of a Spiritualist who was drawn into the Theosophical
Society. We have already published in Psypioneer an account by Francesca Arundale of the
same era.9
Below is taken from: The Transactions of the Scottish Lodge of the Theosophical Society
Part VIII pages 115-122:
Some Recollections of Spiritualistic
Investigation
IT is rather difﬁcult to know how to begin. I was
such a complete outsider, so horribly ignorant of
all transcendental matters, so utterly unread in
all philosophical or metaphysical matter. I don't
think any one could have been more ignorant
than I was of literature otherwise than that all
ordinary authorities were somewhat known to
me, and so I did not consider myself ignorant at
all. I however was, and being of an inquiring
turn of mind, and having no respect for
authorities, as I had found none then, I fell an
easy prey to the surface writers of the day, and I
thought myself sufﬁciently well informed by
becoming a materialist, practically an atheist. I
don’t regret that period, but I see now it was a
very low level indeed. However, as by nature I
was endowed with some of the higher gifts of
man, art, poetry, and so forth, though I
practically was an atheist, I always kept my
mind in an open receptive manner for all crumbs
of knowledge, and I fancy I was more fed than I
was aware of just through art and poetry. Of
theology I was ignorant, and I had a horror of
the evangelistic exposition thereof. I was much
afraid of death, but I did not think much about it.
However, at a period in my life, when one’s intellectual faculties begin to fully expand, I was
left absolutely alone in the world—a death had robbed me of the only real friend and
companion I ever had. But still I did not think much.
However, one day I was in that charming world-known library in Florence, “Vieussieux,”
and I took up, by chance, a copy of, to me, an unknown “journal” called The Spiritualist.
There my eye lighted on a letter purporting to be an account of “a spirit” who had just passed
through the process called death, and how it felt, and so on. I can’t say how it was, but it
struck me as being extraordinarily true somehow. I took the address of the paper in London,
8
Isabel De Steiger: http://www.wrightanddavis.co.uk/GD/ISABEL3678.htm
9
“From Spiritualism to Theosophy”:
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/2.3%20PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
202
and in a few weeks after my arrival there I became a member of the Society in Great Russell
Street, the “British National Association of Spiritualists,” then in its palmy days of
investigating zeal, and, moreover, at a time when, no doubt, there were some remarkable
mediums and a ﬂood of phenomena.
It certainly was a most interesting and exciting time. Nothing either before or since has
equalled that excitement.
Among the investigators I found many most interesting, intellectual, and cultured people.
That in itself was a great charm, and I think, here I may as well say, that from the beginning
of my investigations to the end, covering a space of about ten years, I came in contact with
but little that I now regret. Providentially, moreover, as far as myself was concerned, I was
encased in a body which was too concrete to admit of injury from the astral world. I neither
could escape from my body, not could any invasive spirit easily enter. I was not at all
mediumistic; in other words, exceedingly sane. This fact, however, distressed me much then.
I eagerly longed to be a medium, and enter behind the veil. Happily I did not, as my supreme
ignorance at that time would have led me into much of the abounding error truthfully
promulgated among the Spiritualists.
There were regular meetings held at Great Russell Street, and, oh! how wildly interesting
they were. Mr Stainton Moses was chairman usually, and he was an able and interesting one.
Of course “phenomena” was the sole idea, and mediums were cherished and sought for.
The ﬁrst phase I came in contact with was the trance medium, a Mr Colville10
; and on
Saturday afternoons a chosen assembly listened in rapt awe and silence to his orations. He
was a pale, pretty, innocent-faced young man about twenty, with a huge forehead, all ideality
and no action; in other words, a medium. I don’t think he said anything in the least new (I did
then think it remarkable), but it was a well-delivered oration, a mixture of Platonism,
Emersonism, I scarcely know what, certainly thoroughly admirable philosophy; but in later
years, when I read some of these addresses in cooler blood, I found they were really so
absolutely subjective as to be practically valueless. Like all astral teaching, it was involved
and formless.
Mr Colville still continues his career in America, but he has varied his “output” from time
to time, and now, I believe, ranks among the Christian scientists. He was a harmless, steady
young fellow, and it was touching to see how his brain was used by other “selves” than his
own.
Then came the Fletchers, of course amongst others, but as the Fletchers were
extraordinary mediums, I will pass over the others.
Mr and Mrs Fletcher were a young couple from America, with important credentials from
the American Spiritualists and their great organ The Banner of Light.
At first they began mildly with duly arranged séances at the rooms of the Association, and
I attended those.
Their specialty consisted in phenomena called materialisations when together, and when
apart they, chieﬂy Mr Fletcher, gave private séances to any one who wanted information
10
Marc Demarest has recently investigated the background of Colville.
http://ehbritten.blogspot.co.uk/2013/02/stories-within-stories-childhoods-of-w.html#!/2013/02/stories-within-stories-
childhoods-of-w.html
203
from their “loved and lost” as the phrase is. I went to my ﬁrst séance of this kind to Mr
Fletcher, and I paid a guinea, and I felt then ten guineas, if I had had them, would not have
been too much.
To a person who really had the vaguest, if any, understanding at all, of any plane of
existence but this, the ﬁrst rush of feeling that there is a real one outside the senses, is very
violent, and I remember shaking with emotion as Mr Fletcher, with a death-like face and
convulsive twists of his body, gave a great sigh, and then in an entirely different voice to his
own, began to talk to me, and in a few moments this voice told me a great deal of startling
news, and seemed au courant with my private affairs.
I feel assured now that this was a genuine performance. Mr Fletcher was quite as ignorant
of my private affairs as any one to whom this paper was written. He was a stranger to
London, I ditto. We had never met except “in a crowd,” the crowd all strangers, and in
London it is not easy to get to know about other people unless one is a private detective. The
“spirit” gave me good advice, but flattered me exceedingly about my profession, saying the
letter R wreathed itself about my head, by which was meant, I was told, that my presiding
genius was Raphael; also, oddly enough, the initial letter of my husband’s name. He had died
in Egypt three or four years before, and certainly his Christian name was utterly unknown to
Mr Fletcher or any other of the stray Bohemians I then was meeting. We knew absolutely
nothing about each other but names and profession—not always that,—and I had the sense,
as I considered it, to be very careful and chary of ever talking about my own concerns and
relations, but, in fact, there was no need, and the Fletchers were then honest mediums.
On Sunday evenings Mr Fletcher used to give what was called “communications.” These
were highly interesting and curious. The meetings were in the “Cavendish Rooms,” well-
known public ones of a good class in the West End, and they were crowded with high and
low—by no means a riff-raff company.
Mrs Fletcher used ﬁrst to give a lecture, which was listened to with as much admiration as
are now those by Mrs Besant. Indeed, excepting Mrs Besant, I have never heard any woman
with a greater power of oratory. She was supposed, like Mr Colville, to be speaking under
spirit control. He probably did, as his native intelligence was below the average somewhat, I
should think; but Mrs Fletcher’s was not, and I have little doubt now that she was naturally a
gifted orator, and she held her audience spell-bound by her ﬂow of really powerful language.
Then she kept her eyes open, his were always shut, and she was a very handsome woman
indeed, with a ﬁne classical dark face. After her address was ended, Mr Fletcher, who was on
the platform with her, would then go into a trance, or be “controlled” as the phrase was, and
standing up, he would proceed to give “communications” such as this:—“I see a young man
dressed as a sailor—yes, a sailor. He looks very pale. Oh! I see, he says he has recently
passed away, and he wants to say something to a lady who is here. He is standing by her. She
is, let me see, oh, a lady in mourning on the fifth bench” (every eye would be turned to the
lady in question, who, with bowed head, would listen intently). “Oh! he says he is her—her
nephew, but she was like a mother, and he would go to sea, and he ran away, and he sailed in
a ship, the City of L—L—oh, London, and it went down; and he is come to say that she must
not grieve. He is very happy; he often comes to see her; he loves her very much; his name is
George.”
The poor lady would sob and be much moved, and then in a faint voice get up and just
gasp out, “Yes, yes, it is my George.”
Then again, Mr Fletcher would say, “Oh! I see another, oh! So beautiful a girl, she has a
wreath of—oh—such lovely ﬂowers, and she says her name is Annie—Annie something, I
204
don’t know what. Oh, W-o, W-o-o-d—Wood. Yes! Annie Wood. And she says she is come
to tell some lady here she is quite well. All her pain is gone, and she is so happy, and she is so
beautiful; and—oh, she is gone; she says the air here is so dark, so heavy. No! I can’t see her.
Does any lady know? And then there would be a faint cry and sound from some other bent
lady, but the rule was that every one who recognised the description of a friend must waive
private feeling and acknowledge the relation.
While thinking of some one else’s feelings, and wondering if it were true, I all at once
upon one occasion awoke to the fact that a relation of mine claimed me—a brother. It came
about this way. It was the custom somewhat for any visitor so inclined, as the whole thing
was gratis, the hall being hired by the Fletchers, to bring in ﬂowers, and one Sunday evening
I brought in two pot plants and I put them on the platform, and eventually they were put on
the table where the glass and water stood. Suddenly Mr Fletcher said, “There is a gentleman
here, he says his name is ‘Willie,’ and he wants to speak to the lady who brought these
plants.”
The Fletchers were not in the hall when I brought them, though some one might have told
them. However, at the time I saw no one at all but the one or two friends with me. “Willie
says he is now much happier than when in earth-life. He is very sorry he did not understand
you better, but he says his other sister went the wrong way with him. His earth-life was sad,
and he was weak under temptation,” and so on. Generalities, but which to me exactly
explained the matter. Then he went on, “He says his brother—oh, it is a curious name—I
can’t hear it, it is Vernon” (it was not Vernon, it was Verney) “is here too, and he is much
happier than he was on earth. They both love you very much, and will watch over you.”
Now this was certainly vague and rambling enough, but at the time I felt sure that my two
brothers, Verney and Willie, were both there. They both died as young men, and it was true
somehow in its sadness, It is possible that Mr Fletcher saw their astral lives in “Devachan”
somehow.11
I often think most of the “communications” were true. They were nearly all from young
people who had died prematurely. They left a sense of comfort behind them. Perhaps one felt
the spirit-world very near, only it was not the spirit-world we then thought it, but we knew no
other, and it seemed a new kind of heaven; and yet if it were not heaven, we said, what was
it? And besides, the spirits constantly said, “Oh, I shall not be able to come much oftener, for
I am going up higher soon,” but I won’t here philosophise or give any later light on the
question, as I want chieﬂy to narrate facts.
Well, the Fletchers for some time ﬂourished exceedingly. They were both good-looking,
and Mr Fletcher willingly agreed to come to me to sit for his portrait, which I wanted to give
them.
He was a strange person. A young man about twenty-ﬁve, with a most beautiful, poetical,
pale Italian face, large limpid dark eyes, and silky wavy hair. I was not then much of a
physiognomist, or I would have noticed the weakness and self-indulgence in it. Anyway he
was a tender, shrinking creature, and he certainly was less in this plane of existence than the
next. He was fastidious about his clothes, and he used to arrive in a hansom in a wonderful
long coat trimmed with fur, and gauntlet gloves and diamond studs, and my studio maid used
to ask with awe, “Is the prince coming to-day? If I said “Yes,” there was no need to give
further orders for being ready.
11
Not in Devachan, but in the writer’s own aura. —P. [editorial comment by Transactions!]
205
I looked forward to these sittings expecting to get some private revelations, and, in fact, to
hear a good deal about “Spirit land,” but I was disappointed. Mr Fletcher seemed to forget all
about Spirit land; he was absolutely vacuous, told me triﬂing gossip, and also betrayed his
excessive personal vanity, such as he intended to have a long violet velvet coat, and a large
house in Portland Place, so like a child’s prattle, that I was fairly amazed, and then the
portrait was complete. I realised that the man, when in this plane of consciousness, was really
a silly, almost unlettered young man—reﬁned, gentle and amiable, the oddest compound. I
was utterly puzzled. He was pleased with his portrait, and so was Mrs Fletcher. I had a strong
liking for both, and I really felt sorry, when after a long career of success, the sad inevitable
end came!12
Then there were séances at other mediums’, when the “ materialisations” occurred. “John
King” was the spirit best known to me. Upon one occasion I was asked by a Captain J—, an
old naval ofﬁcer, who lived alone and spent his life in the séance room, to come to a very
select one at his house—or rather rooms. He had lost a son, and this son had recently
materialised, and he wanted me to see if the nose in the materialised form was not the same
as his. He knew it well, but he would like me as an artist to judge. I did not think this much
advantage; but as I then liked a good séance and I knew Captain J— had rigid test conditions,
and that I should know the other sitters, so I went. Besides it was considered a compliment,
and spiritualists had their social ambitions like other people, and Captain J—’s circles ranked
high. You were presumably an authority if you were invited.
We had the usual darkened room—the medium, a young man called “Rita,” and three or
four chosen sitters and myself round a round table, which was lighted up, so to say, by a
phosphoric slate. And we commenced singing, in the usual lamentably poor manner, “By the
River,” or some sentimental four part song, usually in unison, for tenors and contralti, &c.,
were mere accidents, as well as having any voices at all; but singing was necessary, and sing
we did. Captain J— used to quaver industriously all by himself. Then all at once—I am
speaking of one special séance—we all saw a sort of mist in the middle of the table, and out
of it a form grew, and Captain J—said, “Oh, there he is—John—John (I think it was John), I
am glad to see you—come to me,” and the form unquestionably turned into a man from the
centre of the table—half a man that is, well enveloped in a cloudy kind of drapery, with a
dark bearded face. Captain J—said, “Now, do look well, Madame S—. Do, John, go close to
her and let her look at you—at your nose, if it is not like mine.” Will it be believed, though
really I shrank with a queer distorted sense of awe that was not awe, and yet it was a sort of
dread, yet I laughed? it was such an odd mixture, and John did put his face near me, and I
honestly tried to look at his nose, but it evaded me somehow. I am not quite sure if I did look
as much as Captain J—wished, for it was eerie beyond words; however, John waved off his
head from near me, and I did catch a vague sight of a large nose, and I said, “Oh, yes, Captain
J—, your nose,” and John turned into a mist and sank into the table. That is all I know.
Captain J—was assured he saw his son. I saw the strange “simulacrum,” and so did every
one by the light of the phosphorescent slate, and also the ﬁgure itself was somehow self-
illuminated.13
I saw at another séance also the well-known “ Katie Cook.” I can’t answer for the test
conditions then. We all sat in the Fletchers’ drawing-room, and all at once, she appeared, just
12
The end was a scandalous trial, though it may not have been what it seemed. See the recent discussion by
Marc Demarest, on his blog “ Chasing Down Emma”: http://ehbritten.blogspot.co.uk/2013/06/twelve-hours-in-mrs-
fletchers-hands.html#!/2013/06/twelve-hours-in-mrs-fletchers-hands.html
13
The medium Rita was found (with Williams) in apparent in fraud in Amsterdam.
206
a white mass of airy drapery, a white face not dead at all, with soft, dark eyes, and she just
ﬂashed through us, as it were, and went. They all called her “Katie Cook.” She was the spirit
belonging to a Miss Corner, who, as the medium, was lying in a trance on a sofa behind a
curtain, not in white drapery, however.14
Then came a series of séances which were the most interesting of all, as one certainly got
a good deal more mental food than was usual. I must say, all along a certain amount of
spiritual education was going on. We heard of old authors, new ideas, strange theories, bold
speculations, fresh light on old ideas, that by degrees were not without effect.
Well, at that time I was the friend of Mr and Mrs Fletcher, and as public mediums were
extraordinarily jealous of each other, I felt if I wished to see the celebrated new medium, Mrs
Billing, I must not tell the Fletchers.
However, that course did not recommend itself to my mind, and I resolved I would be
open and tell the Fletchers I was going to see Mrs Billing.
It did not do. Mrs Fletcher was offended, and I felt I could not keep up both ladies as
mediums and friends, and decided I would not see much of Mrs Billing. However, one day I
had a letter from a friend, not a medium, but a fellow-sitter, if I may say so. She said that
orders had come to me from the spirit “Ski” to join their Monday evenings.
Now, I may as well say a spirit’s orders were never disputed, and I agreed, and wrote to
Miss A—, to tell Mrs Billing I would.
The terms were simple, a guinea for the course of six Mondays—or twelve, I forget. I
shall not easily forget those evenings.
Certainly the spirit “dear old Ski” was not worldly. The circle he had chosen were not
remarkable for any worldly advantages, and we were drawn from all the corners of London,
but by degrees we got to know each other very well indeed, and life-long friendships ensued
from it. Complete personal respect and good fellowship began and remained throughout.15
Mrs Billing was a friend of Madame Blavatsky, and the Theosophical Society was just
forming.
The spirit Ski purported to be a North American Indian, and the “control” of Mrs Billing.
The circle then formed used to sit in her back drawing-room in her lodgings, and we were
all very happy. Mrs Billing was never entranced. She sat like the rest of us. Fortunately, in
this circle we had a Mr Wade who had a nice tenor voice, and he most patiently went over his
limited repertoire with endless good-nature, and when at one point we all chimed in the
chorus, “Hark, ’tis the Moorish drum,” or something to that effect, the air would be full of
fairy voices, whispers, and the song would cease, and then a faint whisper, “It’s me, Elsie. I
am so glad to see you, good-bye; ” or, “John, John, I am come;” “ Do you know me, Aunt
Mary?” and so on. People held their little airy conversations. No one interrupted, but let them
have their say, until the last good-night ﬂoated in the air. Then would come a loud, strong
guttural “ Squaw—Squaw Stigum”—that was what he made of my name—or “Chief Way,”
and so forth, and the much beloved and respected Ski was known to be present, and intensely
14
This is a reference to the medium Florence Cook, married name Corner, and her guide Katie King.
15
For more about Ski, see Psypioneer October 2010: http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.10October2010.pdf
207
interesting conversations ensued—all in the dark, the voice seeming at the top of the
chandelier.
We all discussed the probability at other times of Mrs Billing being a ventriloquist, and
the voice being hers; but, as by degrees we knew more of her and of each other, we were
never able to form any idea at all, and came to believe it really to be a materialised voice.
“Ski” became a sort of friend. He told us much that really has come to pass. He said he
waited upon Madame Blavatsky; he said he was preparing some of us for the Theosophical
Society. It proved true, I joined the next year. It was then in its infancy, a poor little band.
He told us all about re-incarnation, and moreover, that was fascinatingly interesting, our
past lives, and he related incidents to each.
Curiously enough, I have always a horror of being shut up or locked in, and did not enjoy
going inside the Pyramids or Catacombs, &c.; indeed I have always had an exaggerated
liking for open rooms—freedom of that kind. He told me I had been a nun, and been once
shut up to die in a vault, and so forth. Somehow it seemed true to me, for I recollected the
horror of being shut up as particularly vivid in childhood, but I had almost forgotten it of late
years. He did not ﬂatter us. Some of us he said had been very bad!
Our séances were ﬁnished by a memorable one. Hitherto we had never seen anything, but
on this occasion we did. We sat in a half-faint light and the curtains were drawn. They were
dark; all at once a sort of magic-lantern effect was seen on them in front of one of the sitters,
and he and “Ski” had a little colloquy. Then the half darkness again, and our singer gallantly
to the fore with his tenor voice, and the chorus, “Hark, ’tis the Moorish evening drum.” No!
that was not quite it, I forget the exact words, but I shall never forget the soft state of
delicious exaltation and the silence, except a cab rolling outside, and the “Moorish drum”
inside. Then, “Squaw—Squaw Stigum—look!” and lo! just in front of me on the curtain, a
sort of oval of illuminated light, a face in it like a magniﬁed photograph, but coloured, alive. I
saw a smile, and in a second I said, “Rudolph,” my husband’s name, and the oval faded into
the dark of the curtain. Others had similar experiences, some more or less satisfactory. “Ski”
informed us it was the photography of the future, and that he had a present for us all. First he
told us what our colours and ﬂowers were. I forget the others. I naturally only remember
mine (for it is now nearly ten years ago), and the colour was “yellow,” and I was to wear
“amber,” and my ﬂower was the lotus. I felt disappointed; I would have liked sky blue, which
was called the mediumistic colour and I did not like an ancient old Egyptian ﬂower, but I
have often thought it was more apt than I then knew. He then apportioned us each our
presents—chieﬂy, I think, Mrs Bi1ling’s own drawing-room ornaments, which she faithfully
bereft herself of and gave. I was considered to have the best, namely, the teapot, said to be
materialised by Madame Blavatsky. “Ski” said he brought it through the air. I have the teapot
still. Its story was authenticated.
“Ski” then said, “Good-bye, chiefs; good-bye, squaws. God bless you,” and I never heard
of “Ski” again.
Mrs Billing went to America. Miss A—, a fellow-sitter, kept a faithful record of all the
séances, and last year we re-read them together. After that, some of us joined the
Theosophical Society, others left, and our circle broke up. We remained friendly to the last. I
ceased to attend séances by degrees; fresh light appeared to me on many subjects, and that
part of my investigation came to an end.
208
This is of course only a sketch of phenomena. I saw much more. I did not lay claim to any
remarkable acumen, but I felt that things were not always right, and I stopped going to some
circles; but in others, I feel somehow quite certain, whatever the real explanation might be,
that of vulgar imposture, common trickery, and fraud were absolutely wide of the mark.
Mrs Billing
Mrs. Mary J. (neé Kerns) Hollis – Mary had married a
Captain E.J. Hollis, of Louisville, Kentucky.
At some time it appears post 1873, and before circa 1879 she became Mrs.
Billing, often then referred to as Hollis-Billing.
—~§~—
209
Change of editorship
—~§~—
After eleven years as editor of the online journal, Psypioneer, I have decided to pass it back
to the journal’s founder editor, Leslie Price. The change will take effect from January 1st
2017.
Psypioneer has been a great joy for me over the last decade, presenting our readers with
original reliable information on psychic pioneers and spiritualistic history. Our readership has
grown internationally over the years, however, none of this would have been possible without
the help and the continuous support of the editorial team.
Leslie has been sub-editor since I took over from him in July 2005; Garth Willey has also
acted as proof reader during this period. Garth has hosted Psypioneer since May 2004 when
Leslie started the publication, and he will continue to archive the journal on his Woodlands
Sanctuary Foundation website in Melbourne, Australia, where Peter Hui provides technical
help. Over the last five years Lis Warwood has given Psypioneer substantial support as proof
reader, and her invaluable research has gone far beyond the important births and death dates.
My wife Cindy has often had to type out material which was too poor to scan, and she has
checked every issue before the draft is passed to the editorial team. Over the years Psypioneer
has been financially supported by donations, namely from the JV Trust, Spiritual Truth
Foundation, and the Survival Joint Research Committee Trust.
Our material has often been sourced from the College for Psychic Studies library and
archives, with their full support. Support has also been given by the Society for Psychical
Research, and from the Spiritualists’ National Union Presidents Duncan Gascoyne and David
Bruton who arranged free accommodation and full use of the Arthur Findlay library during
periods when the college was closed for a number of years. Support has been given from Sue
Farrow and Roy Stemman, editors of Psychic News.
Finally thanks are due to all who have contributed articles, book reviews etc. and all the
feedback and continuing support from our readers.
I will continue my support to Leslie for the future growth of Psypioneer.
Please note: I will continue to edit the Spiritualists’ National Union Pioneer, which is
available on their website.16
Thank you all.
Paul J. Gaunt.
16
The Pioneer Journal: http://www.snu.org.uk/spiritualism/pioneer to subscribe free please contact me at:
pioneer@snu.org.uk
210
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue, or to contact Psypioneer please e-mail:
leslie.price@blueyonder.co.uk
Leslie Price.
—~§~—
