{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1823__landseer___sabean_researches.pdf","mytitle":"Sabean Researches","mylang":"de"}
SAB£AN RES·EARCHES,
IN A SERIES OF ESSAYS,
ADDRESSED TO DISTINGUISHED ANTIQUARIESJ
'
Aim IXCLtJJ)IlfG
THE SUBSTANCE OF A COURSE OF LECTURES,
DELIVERED AT THE
Jnstttutton of C!lJrtat J5tttatn.
ON THE ENGRAVED HIEROGLYPHICS OF
CHALDEA, EGYPT, AND CANAAN.
BY
JOHN LANDSEER,
-::;.
PELLOW OF THE SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES, KEMBER OP THE LONDON ROYAL ACADEMY OF
ARTS, AND ENGRAVER TO THE KING.
ILLUSTRATED WITH ENGRAYINGS
OP
BABYLONIAN CYLINDERS,
AND OTHB&
INEDITED MONUMENTS OF ANTIQUITY.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR HURST, ROBINSON, AND CO.;
Aim
ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE AND CO., EDINBURGH.
1823.
\ ·--
Digitized byGoogle
•
..
BY JOHN LANDSEER.
-E·CCE SIGNUM!
Digitized by c ·
oogIe..
·.:::.·
Digitized by Coogle
J, M'Creery,.Prillter,
TooU.Coart, Cbaacery-Lue.
..
Digitized byGoogle
•
P REF ACE.
WHAT has been asserted by Mr. Jacob Bryant-partly on the
authority of Plutarch-of the ancient history of Egypt, :is at least
equally true of that of the nations of Western Asia. "There are
some slight and obscure traces of true History, here and there to
be found, as they lie scattered up and down. But it requires a
person of uncommon address to find them out : one who can de-
duce great truths from scanty premises. This is at first sufficient
to deter a person from going on in a study of this nature. But
upon recollection, we find that we have helps to which the more
early writers were strangers. We have for a long time had light
opening upon us, and begin now to avail ourselves of the blessing.
We talk indeed of ancient days, and times of antiquity; but that
time is most aged which has endured longest, and these are the
most ancient days, in which we are ourselves conversant. We
enjoy now an age of accumulated experience ; and we are able to
make use of the helps which have been transmitted, to dispel the
mist which has preceded."
Ofthis ingenious turning of the telescope of Time, by means of
Mr. Bryant's machinery, I would beg leave to avail myself. ·His
main proposition may not be entirely free from sophistry. That
the modern, are the most ancient, times, may be mooted : but the
"helps" which have been transmitted from those young-old times,
is certain ; and among those helps will be found to be the EN-
GRAVED CYLINDERS and other ancient sculptured remains, of Baby-
lon, Nineveh, Persepolis, Sidon, and wherever else there were seats
b
Digitized byGoogle
VI
ofArt in Assyria, Canaan, Persia, and the orientallEthiopia : some
of which sculptures form the proper s·ubject of the present volume.
When they are once perceived to be astronomical monuments of
very remote dates, they cannot fail to be regarded as deeply inte-
resting to antiquaries, to chronologists, and to all who would ac-
curately study the early scriptural records, and the general history
ofman. To render manifest those scientific and historical references, .
is my chief purpose in publishing these SABlEAN RESEARCHES.
Since he who presumes to undertake an archreological specula-
tion so far removed from ordinary themes, should be able to ab-
stract himself from present times and circumstances; to retrospect
beyond the reach of literary records; to disencumber himselffrom
the drag of local prejudice and existing modalities, yet to carry
with him the essential results of the learning of ages, while he re-
solutely inspects the dim, dangerous, and debateable land which
lies between the territories ofMemory and Oblivion ;-should pos-
sess the power to grasp at what Time and War had consigned to
the latter; as treads the palpable obscure; to see the parts of
Nature, bearing the same simple and scientific relations to each
other and to the human mind, that they did thousands of years
ago ; to throw back his intellect toward those remote periods,
and reflect as men then reflected on objects of visual and of mental
cognizance; to assimilate his own notions and discoveries, with
the original thinkings of primitive and unsophisticated ages; to
proceed in his researches with unwearied, calculating, diligence,
and be with caution bold.-Since these, and more than these,
united exertions of Imagination and Judgment, were required,
in order to examine critically and with due effect, such curious
antiques as are here submitted to the public-it may be asked
how I came to engage in the task?
To this I can only reply, that accident threw some of the Cylin-
Digitized byGoogle
..
VII
ders in my way, somewhere about eighteen or twenty years ago,
(whilst I was seeking materials to illustrate the origin and progress
of ancient engraving,) which were then denominated, and gene-
rally believed to be, Persepolitan-this word seeming to restrict
them to Persepolis as ·the place of their original production : but
Capt. Lockett, Mrs. Rich, and other travellers, have since brought
engraved gems of this description, from the site of the metropolis
of Ninus and Sardanapalus, and from the very mounds of ruin
where" the Queen of Nations" formerly sat enthroned; and astro-
nomical science having beamed on them from above, something
of a character superior to mere antiquarian curiosity, as those
words are genera11y understood, was thus engendered and quick·
ened into life. I became attached to the study of these hitherto
neglected monuments. I was at first smitten with, and afterward
wedded to, the investigation of their mysterious contents, and,
unless I deceived myself,
" Pleasure lit her ton:h at Virtue's flame."
I was now to behold, in all the simplicity oftheir early beauty, the
messengers of the most remote tidings : I was to meet, face to face,
the witnesses of ages : I was to have the honour of an audience
with Truth in her loneliness : and the purest homage was to be
offered, at the most unpolluted of her upper fountains, to the ge-
nius of History.
Notwithstanding that the subjects of these cylindrical gems are
here severally treated, and that each of my epistolary essays may
be considered as an independent archreological dissertation, they
are not altogether unconnected, and something like orderly se-
quence will be found .to have been observed, in as far as I felt or
fancied that such order contributed to facilitate my researches, and
was likely to conduce to the ready arrangement in the mind ofthe
b2
Digitized byGoogle
viij
reader, of the information which it was my to convey.
Hence, the first essay will be found to contain evidence in proof
that the engraved Cylinders of.Western and of Southern Asia, are
the .signets mentioned and alluded to in our early scriptures, and
\)y the more ancient ofthe profane historians. The second shews
that such signets·were not merely matrices of seals, but were ocular
mystic signs. H-aving cleared these two points to the best of my
information and ability, I h-ave next proceeded to shew that some
ofthesefmystic signs had reference to the periodical religious festi-
vals of the star-worshipping nations of remote antiquity, and
others to their judicial astrology, producing-in the engraved con-
tents of such cylinders as·1 exhibit-examples of each.
·.These exhibited examples were the ostensible-and in truth the
teal:-subjects of a .course of lectures delivered at the Royal In-
·the. Essays· being· substantially the Lectures amplified
and more copiously illustrated.
I intended to.have pursued my researches further, and that the
present Volume should have contained a greater number of both
ofthe above mentioned species of antique signets, but unforeseen
circumstances which I tried in vain to control, have prevented
me; and, in fact, since I could not have exhausted the subject,
even were an ante-diluvian extension of the period of life to be
granted me, the present volume is nearly as much a whole (in the
strict sense of unity) as if it had contained double the number of
illustrative examples and of pages.
As the investigation of monuments of very ancient art, is the
especial purpose of these researches, I hope it. will on the whole,
be found by the scholars and critics, to have been no unfit task
for an antiquarian .artist to .have engaged in, however imperfectly
qualified in some respects. Perhaps too, they will allow that an
impartial and disinterested lay writer, is likely to ascend into the
Digitized byGoogle
IX
Sabttan heavens with a freer spirit than if he had been educated to
the priesthood, and had been embarrassed in his flight by the creed
ofBrahma or of Mohammed. I chose the epistolary form for these
Essays, because it seemed to promise me more unrestrained liberty
of will, and-in short, because I found it easier, and more practi-
cable to my unscholastic habits, than would have been any more
formal and severe-any rigid and rugged, road of research. And
I employed this latter term in the general designation of my vo-
lume, because it implies, not compleat and final accomplishment,
but continuity ofinvestigation, and the existence of an exploring
purpose not terminated.
When an inquiring and observant traveller from afar, journeys
through an interesting tract of country, impressions come home tct
his feelings with a freshness and vividness of form and colour,
which is either unknown to its inhabitants, or appears to them
trite and unworthy of notice. Common places to them, are to
him uncommon : the languor of habit has not repressed the health-
ful enjoyment of novelty and truth: but, seeing such scenes with
unworn feelings, he receives from them the genuine impressions
which nature intended to man. In some places, I have indulged
these sentiments: in others, I have felt admonished by that dremon
which haunts, or infected by that effiuvium of.criticism which per-
vades, the literature of modern Europe, and have suppressed-
! may not say what.
Notwithstandin·g what I have suppressed, I cannot on the whole,
but be apprehensive that some portion of what I have not sup-
pressed, may fatigue, or but faintly affect the learned ; and those
readers of oriental travels, who have been used to regale on highly
spiced literary viands, and to wash them down with poetical ar-
rack, I cannot but fear may not relish my milder repast ;-my
Digitized byGoogle
X
milk and honey from the land of Canaan ; my butter of Deborah,
in a homely dish.
I may be told that this Scriptural butter, was more properly that
of Jael. True: but Jael 'I have neither the wish, nor intention,
nor ability, to emulate. Any wearied star-worshipper or chief-
tain,-whether or not the stars in their courses fight against him, .
may turn in hither, and freely repose in my tent, without the least
dread of heing nailed there.
One word more of confession to the candid reader, more espe-
cially if he be learned. After laying by a work of art or litera-
ture for a while, its author,-as every one knows-regards it with
refreshed attention ; and perhaps has contrived to divest himself,
in some degree at least, of his partiality for his former thoughts,
and mode of expressing them. He looks at his work again, as it
were with the eye ofanother.-Upon a late revisal of what I have
written and printed, I am led to fear that, with regard to some
points, I have sermonized with too frequent and laboured recur-
rence to my texts. Concerning the fllinged Sun, for example, I
might perhaps with advantage to the whole, have suppressed some
parts, and have trusted more to the sculptured indications. Yet
ofthis I cannot be certain, nor in fact, am I certain, that mere
misgiving is not here flowing from my pen. It may be true that
'' Vice is a monster ofso frightful mien,
'' As to be hated needs but to be seen :"
But we cannot with similar reliance upon the word of a poet,
trust Astronomical monuments to the public gaze, nor suppose that
to be recognized and loved, they need but to be inspected, or why
should the engraved cylinders which have long been known in
Europe, have remained for that period in the state of a sealed
book ? I am sceptical, on the whole; and I trust that this expres-
Digitized byGoogle
.
XI
sion of the doubts which have arisen in my mind.upon these points,
will form a sufficient apology to those readers of antique discern-
ment, who might else feel, with the learned and poetical conscious-
ness of Horace, something of his gentlemanly indignation against
those who should presume to teach him to sing.
Of the egg-shaped vase which has been prefixed in the way of
frontispiece to this volume, some account will be found in pp. 81-
4 : and as the reader will perhaps have noticed some problematical
appearances of assault and battery, near that little Bull which
stands in the arched recess, it may be as well to mention that these
are not the work of Time, but are bullet-marks, the l'esult of the
Mohammedan hatred of heathenish idoL,, and of the Turkish sol-
diery having made use of the sculptured ornaments of this curious
vase, as targets at which to exercise their small arms. Amongst
these barbarians, (as with modern targeteel's), it will readily be
conceived that" the bulfs eye" became a favourite point to hit.
As the festoon of engraved gems which is prefixed to the first
Essay, exhibits (with the exception of a very old and large one form-
ing the ostensible subject of the fourth Essay, ami of which the
dimensions are marked on the margin) all the cylinders of which
any account is contained in the present volume, of their real sizes,
it has not been thought necessary to specify this in any other man-
ner; nor to state in what proportions their impressions have been
enlarged in the Vignette Head-pieces, for the more convenient in-
spection of my readers.
J. L.
London, June, 1823.
Digitized byGoogle
. ;
" .. . )
' . '
. '
Digitized by Google
ESSAY I. TOTHE RIGHTHON.SIRJOSEPH BANKS,BART.,G.C.B.,&e.
. SIR,-The foJiowing observations tending to shew that the Signets
of the nations which anciently inhabited the banks of the Tigris and
Euphrates, were, at least in some instances, of a cylindrical form, may
perhapM, I'!Ot· be unworthy of you... attention and that of the Society of
Antiquaries. The observations were suggested chiefly by the contempla-
tion of a considerable number of engraved gems of this kind, which are
in my possession, and which have been recently dug up at Babylon, and
brought to England by that perseyering Oriental traveller and scholar,
Capt. Abraham Lockett.
Many of these cylinders are formed of hmmatite, mistakenly termed
loadstone by Mr. Raspe, in his Catalogue Raisonn6e of Tassie's collec-
* With some correction• and addition•, the of 1ubeequent reflection on the IUbjec:t,
thf• letter addreued to the late Sir J01eph Banks, hu alreadybeen printed in the .Archeologia
of the Society of Antiquarie.. I wa• not then aware that my meditations on the IUbject of
ancient Sabman •ignet•, would bue run out to 1ucb length. Ita re-appearance here, in •ub-
ltaoce, u the fint of a and root of tboee Euay• which (u the reader will perceive,) have
since lfOWD from it, wu indiapeoaable.
Digitized by Google
2
tion: the rest are of carnelian, opal, jasper, agate, chalcedony, and other
hard and precious stones.
It is well known that engraYed cylinders of the same kind, have been
.brought to Europe before these, the major part of which were collected
. during a three weeks residence among, and in the immediate neighbour-
hood of, the ruins of ancient Babylon. Of those, some are contained in
the British Museum ; others are at the Borghese Palace, and the Museums
of Germany ; and several are at Paria, in the cabinets of the king of
France, and of Mons. Silvestre de Sacy, and other distinguished anti-
quaries. The idea which bas generally prevailed respecting them is,
that they are Persepolitan amulets. Raspe caUs them amulets ;• and the
modern Arabs, by whom they are found and preserved, venerate them
as possessing some inherent talismanic virtue, with the precise nature of
which they are professedly unacquainted, but which, from hope, or from
fear, they desire to propitiate.
Considerable numbers of these gems have, from time to time, been
disinterred by the Arabs, in digging up those bricks of ancient Babylon,
which constitute the material of which the town of HelJah and most of
the houses within a certain distance of the ruins, are chiefly built. It
should be as .a general principle, that the lower these
Arabian labourers dig into the masses of rubbish and brick, the more
likely they are to turn up such remains of antiquity, as, like the gems
before us, are formed of imperishable substances; and it should also
be known, that parts of the sub-structures being now all that remain of
the palaces and temples of this great metropolis, they are more likely
than at any former period, to recover such productions of the Babylonian
arts of remote antiquity as remain uodestroyed ; for the superstructures
having gradually been entirely carried away ; the Arabs are now digging
among the very foundations which were laid by the architects of Nebu-
chadnezzar, if not by those of Ninus and Semiramis.
It is of smaU importance to us that the modem veneration for these
curious antiques, bas arisen, partly at least, from the romantic supersti-.
• Catalogue Raisonee, &c. p. 6!.
•
Digitized byGoogle
3
tion of Persia and Arabia. The antiquaries of Europe, listening. to the
legendary lore of those of the East, have imbibed or acquiesced in their
belief respecting the original purpose for which these engra.vings were
so laboriously wrought ; and have done so, as it should seem, r.ather
because their own attention bas not yet been critically directed to the
subject, than from any regularly induced conviction that this belief was
founded on a correct knowledge of the superstitions of those far dis-
tant ages .which gave birth to the cylindrical engravings.
I shall therefore, with your leave, Sir Joseph, and that of the Society,.
proceed to shew why I conceive the gems to have been originally not
worn as talismans or amulets, but used as siGNETs, that is to. say, im-
pressed for the purposes of ratifying such social and religious transac-
tions as called for a sacred pledge.
The especial use or purpose for which antiques of this curious descrip-
tion were intended, and to which they were originally applied, I con-
ceive, should be sought for, 1st. In those local oriental customs of the
early ages, which history or tradition bas handed down: 2dly. In the
peculiarities of their forms: 3dly. In the paucity or abundance of their
numbers, when combined with the above considerations, and that of the
places where they were found: and lastly, in their engraved contents.
To treat of them, first, with reference to the ancient customs of Chal-
dea.or Assyria : Herodotus, in detailing those customs as they existed
in his time, says that every Assyrian possessed a signet or seal ;• for so
the Greek l:•EAriAA should be rendered, and not seal-ring, as it has been
translated by the Rev. Mr. Beloe. Neither the form of the seal, nor the
manner in which it was mounted, are mentioned by Herodotus.
The manner in which the engraver's art is spoken of in the Pentateuch,
shews that in the time of Moses, it was an art of no recent invention ;
and that among the surrounding nations, signets were then common,
and in well-known nse. t The onyxes, for the sacred ephod ; the plate
• Clio. cxcv. t Dr. \Vatts uses a similar argument, in treating of the figure of the
acriptural Cherubim. He says, " Wbauoever figure belonged to these cherubs, which ia 10
much unknown to us, it was certainly a common idea and well haown figure to the Jews in that
day, for Mosea doth not concern himself to give any particular de.cription of them, u be does
almoet ofevery thing else, and yet the Jewish artificera made them right."-.Remnanuqf7ime,xix.
B
Digitized byGoogle
of gold for the mitre of the high-priest; and the precious stones for his
breast-plate; were all expressly ordered to be engraven " like· the eft."
gravings of a signet," that is to say, in intaglio. And these words,
"like the engravings of a signet," are, in the book of Exodus, frequently
repeated.
It is true, Dr. Clarke, in commenting on an engraved monogram.'of
Ptolemy, which he found during his travels, supposes that the >Rignets of
the time of the Hebrew patriarchs, were flat, like the seals at present in
use; and this he supposest because the precious stones of the ephod and
those of the breast-plate of the high-priest were "set in ouches of gold;"
be gives no other reason: yet the Book of Exodus plainly says,-not that
these stones were set in ouches, &c. as signets are set, but-that they were
graven as sigtlets are graven; or, as it is expressed in another chapter,
" like the engravings of a signet." The latter expression is mentioned no
less than three times in the course of chapter xxviii., and is again rt>-
peated twice, in chapter xxxix. ; and in this latter chapter, it is also
said that " they wrought onyx-stones enclosed in ouches of gold, graven
as signets are graven."
The circumstance, then, .of these costly stones being engraved like
signets, is, in holy writ, kept quite distinct from that of their being set in
ouches of gold : indef'd, it is fairly to be inferred from the above pas-
sages, that signets ·were not thus set at the time; for when we reflect on
the remarkable attention to detail which characterises this part of the
Bible, and its habitual repetitions, it is rather to be presumed that a wri-
ter, studious of simplicity and exactness, and inspired by tTuth, would
either have repeated, concerning the precious stones of the breast-plate
and ephod, that they were graven as signets are graven, and set as sigwets
are set; or, .using other words, would have said, they were et.graven and
set in ouches ofgold, like signets.
[Since this Letter to Sir Joseph Banks was first printed by the Society
of Antiquaries, I observe that Mr. Bruce, too, has entirely misappre-
hended the meaning of the scriptural expression, " like the engravings of
a signet;" and while the Cambridge traveller bas thought it had refer-
ence to the manner in which signets were set (in metal) ; the Caledonian
Digitized byGoogle
has supposed that it denoted the distindtion between hieroglyphical aDd
alphabetic characters ; and that only the latter were used for signets,
(which is another very palpable mistake, as. the various..bieroglyphical
signets now extant will shew).: whereas the words "like the engravings
of a signet," are intended simply:to .denote direct incision with the tool,
\)ythe Italians termed intaglio, which 'is now become, in all the languages
of Europe, a technical word, distinguishing this mode of art from en-
graving in cameo, ·from sculpture by and from that species. of
low relief bedded in the stone, ·which .was, at the time of the.
exody, so much in use among the engravers of the Egyptian hiero-
glyphics. " Like the engravings of a signet," are only other and more
tiuniliar words for saying, such engraving as is performed with the view
and for the purpose of yielding impressions in relief.
The powers of original thought, however, of the reverend and learned
Secretary of the Newcastle Society of Antiquaries, have carried his
views of the subject more aceurately forward; and he very properly ob..
serves, that " their being intaglios shews that .they were intended for the
purpose of sealing with." The British resident at Baghdad bas also ex-
pressed himself in other words, to the same effect, in his second Memoir
on Babylon.].
You will have the goodness to observe, Sir Joseph, that while I deny
Dr. Clarke's inference as to the oriental signets of this early period being
set. in ouches of gold, I argue from this reference to the book of Ex-
odus, the frequency of signets in tbe time of Moses. Josephus, too, in-
forms us that, some ages before this, when Pharaoh invested the youth-
ful Joseph with power over the land and people of Egypt, he entrusted
to..his discretion the use of the royal signet, along with, and as the osten-
sible mark of, the royal authority. Yet we may not suppose that the
Hebrews learned either the arts of the engraver and lapidary, or the
practice of sealing, during their Egyptian servitude; for·we read in Ge-
nesis, chapter xxxviii., that Judah, the elder brother of Joseph, pos-
sessed a portable signet, which it would appear that he carried about
with him on ordinary occasions, and left as a pledge with his disguised
daughter-in-law, when on his way to a sheep-shearing at Timnath; an
- B 2
Digitized byGoogle
6
event which must have happened several years before the sons of Jacob
were driven into Egypt by famine.
In one of those lectures on ancient engraving which I delivered at the
Royal Institution, some years ago,• 1 have asserted, on the authority of
Cedrenus, the still earlier of.imitative art, such as is displayed
on these cylinders, among the Chaldean progenitors of the Jews; and it
is by no means improbable,-considering the numerous uses to which the
aignet may have been applied in a rude age, when writing could have
been practised but by few persons; considering too, the great number
of signets 'that must in consequence have become necessary,-that Terah
the Chaldean, the father of Abraham, and the first artist whose name is
anywhere ·upon record, was an engraver of signets, as well as a sculptor
or modeller of such small idols as Rachel, t in three generations from
Terah, is recorded to have hidden under the furniture of a camel.
Not to wander, however, or to wander as little as possible, from well-
authenticated facts, let us here reflect on the great number of these gems,
which have been disinterred at Babylon, and at Nineveh (of which the
modern Mosul is the site) ; and lel us regard also their dimensions, and
the peculiarities of their form.
Their abundance may in some measure he eAtimated, by the circum-
stances, that thirteen were collected in the course of the three weeks
that Captain Lockett remained at Babylon ; that several others were ob-
tained, during the same period, by Dr. Hine and Mr. Rich ; that, as Sir
William Ouseley informs me, one English gentleman at Aleppo was
lately the proprietor of forty; that the French antiquaries have possessed
themselves of considerable numbers of these curious works; that scores
were previously to be found in the museums and cabinets of Europe ;
and that, probably, hundreds might be purchased·of the Arabs, Jews,
jewellers, and antiquaries of the East, beside those which may remain
to reward the researches of future travellers.
* See Lect. I. edit.l807. t Upon this aubject, Philo and Dr. Hyde are quoted and
controverted by Mr. Coatard, in hie " Rile ofAatronomy among the Ancients" (p. 5) : but in
denying what they have auerted of taliamana, Mr. C. produces good evidence in proof of the
exiltence of ancient aigneta.
Digitized byGoogle
7
The bead-piece to the present Essay contains tolerably faithful portraits
of seven such cylinders, including a very interesting one brought from
Antioch, by Sir William Rouse Boughton, Bart. and which is of jasper-
opal. Two signets, of an bemispheroidal form, (and concerning which I
shall subsequently have some observations to offer,) act as tassels to the
festoon of cylinders ; and the beads ofthe Lion and Bull which sustain it,
allude to the zodiacal places of the summer solstice and the vernal
nox, at the far-distant period to which most of the engraved devices of
our gems will be found to bear referenre.
The dimensions of these curious antiques are various; some of them ,
being ten times as large as others. Speaking generally, they are from
three-fourths of an inch to more than two inches in length; and while
the smallest of captain Lockett's is less than an inch, the largest is three
inches, in circumference. Their form, as already stated, is cylindrical.
Some of them are regular cylinders, due allowance being made for the
wear and tear theyhave undergone: but others are not exactly cylinders,
having a small degree of concavity or hollowness in their sides, like a
dic&-box: and all of them are perforated longitudinally.
From the very great time and· trouble it would require, even with our
modern facilities of accomplishment, to shape, and perforate, and engrave
elaborate devices on, substances so exceedingly bard as jasper, chalce-
dony, jade, and the more precious stones of the Indian peninsula,·we
might safely infer that the authors of these ancient relics, had some im-
portant and especial purpose in view. And when we combine these cir-
cumstances with historical evidence, and with other localities which I
have brought forward, and shall further proceed to adduce; what purpose
appears so likely as the ratification of those bonds of intercourse between
nations, and of those social compacts and deeds of tramc, which took
place, as learn from the scriptural records, even at periods anterior
to those patriarchal ages which have been mentioned? Introduce a metal
axis, and mount one of these engraved gems upon the principle of a gar-
den rolling-stone, it becomes at once a seal, easy to use and copious in
its contents.
It is no very forced conclusion then, that the longitudinal piercing so
Digitized byGoogle
8
Ja})oriously performed, was for the reception of an axis; and the axis,
$hat·the cylinder might revolve· in rendering its impressions. I may here
remark, that probably, oftJte forms which have been subsequentlyinvented
tr adopted, noqe is so well suited as the cylindrical, to the purpose of
comprehending much subject matter within a small compass. This ca-
pacity, combined with portability, is therefore more profoundly studied
tban may, at first sight,. On what other form, having the per-
pendicular height of an incb, .aod a base of ooly half an inch in diameter
could five human figures, beside accessory matters, be distinctly engraven?
. Dividing these antiques into classes, I conceive that the largest and
heaviest, have been thus mounted, and kept as stationary or table signets
at the palaces and other great offices of •tate, of Assyria, Canaan, Persia,
and Egypt, to be used on public occasions : and wllat seems to corro-
\)orate my opinion of their having, in some instances at least, been thus
Jl)Ounted, is, that in clearing out the dirt from captain Lockett's jasper
(which is somewhat more than two inches in length), I found
it to contain the remains of an axis of metal.
The smaller cylinders, I conceive to be probably of less remote anti-
quity: or, in other words, to have·been produced after the clumsiness of
early contrivance had in some degree yielded to considerations of con-
venience, if not of elegance. For the hollowness in the sides of such
as are uot strictly cylinders, there must have been some reason: and
none appears more likely, than a desire to adapt their shapes to the con-
vexities of the human form, so that they might be worn with the greater
The same kind of perforation, which occasionally served for the ad-
mission of an axis, served in other instances, as the passage for a cord,
or a string of leather: they were thus attached to armlets, finger or
thumb rings, necklaces, and the walking-sceptres of such as were of pa-
triarchal or magisterial authority : so that, when their possessors travelled
on journeys of business, these elaborately wrought instruments of ratifica-
tion; these pledges of honour, or of superstitious faith, became at once
easily portable, and personal ornaments.
Judah was travelling thus at a time when patriarchs, as far as is known,
Digitized byGoogle
9
were neitber ·incumbered with money, nor purses, nor pockets,:when he
happened on that unfortunate rencontre with Tamar, to. which.we ate
indebted for the earliest scriptural mention of a signet. Another inci-
dental mention .of an oriental signet of this kind, occurs in a11,.
cient Persian poem, which is intitled, Shah Nameh, (or the &Qk,;of
Kings), and which details,. amongst the earlier historical events of
empire, the exploits of the Persian hero Roostum, the Alfred, or.
the Arthur, ofbiscountry. · .. :, ..,
.Ferdosi, (as quoted by Sir John Malcolm) records that when Sohrab;
the son of his hero, bad received .his death-wound from the baacl-.ofhia
unknown father, he tore open his mail. and showed the seal which. hia
inother bad plaeed on. /Us·ann, when she revealed to him the secret of his
birth, and bade him seek his father, " The sight of his own ngnet, (says
Ferdosi), rendered Roostutn quite frantic," &c.• ..
The story is romantic, and perhaps fabulous : but the fact that signets
were thus worn, may easily be credited. It is most likely that the poet
eopied it from nature : and it proves that .Ferdosi knew his Per&ian.
readers would believe of their remote ancestry, that they had signets, and
that those signets were .of a nature to.be worn on the arm:
I suppose as the fastening-ornaments of their bracelets, or armlets; .which,
of the smaller cylinders, may very well be credited.
Some doubts as to whether Sir John Malcolm has rightly understood
this passage of Ferdosi, have been expressed by an eminent orientalist.
Though I cannot decide point, I am quite sure that the doubts of a
first-rate scholar ought not to be dissembled. The passage in the Idyl
of Solomon, "Set me as a seal upon thine arm," doubtless alludes to
the same oriental custom, and is of a date between Judah and Roostum;
but it does not set the question at rest, o( whether a signet, or a seal,
(that is to say, an impression from a signet), be meant? Perhaps, Sir
Joseph, you may think otherwise of the following extract from " An-
nals of Oriental Literature,,t which is taken from a preceding part of the
same poem of Ferdosi, that is cited above: being an account of the nup-
• Malcolm's Penia, vol. i. p. 87. t Part I. Art. Pel'liao Anthology, Episode of Sobrab.
Digitized byGoogle
10
tial night of Roostum with the fair Tahiminah, who afterward became
the mother of Sobrab.
"Roostum wore as a bracelet on his arm, a seal, which was renowned
throughout the world for its talismanic virtues :• be took and presented
it to ber, saying, This you will keep by you, and if fortune bestow upon
you a girl, take and entwine it among her braided hair, aud there it will
proye an auspicious star and a fortunate omen; but, if you are favoured·
with a boy, bind this memorial of his father round his arm,-and be will
be another SAoi Nahriman in aspiring magnanimity; he will tear 't'Ae con-
ntllatioa oftll.e Eagle from its towering mansion," &c. This latter expres-
sion bad probably some astrological allusion to the royal horoscope of the
hereditary enemies of Roostum and Persia. Atair, the brightest of
the Eagle, and almost of the heavens, would, at a certain annual season,.
and in the lower latitudes of Persia, be on the meridian and very near
the zenith.
. To me, this signet of Roostum appears to have been of the very same
kind as thoRe which will be exhibited in tbe present volume; but the
reader will decide. Such gems are not unfrequently worn among the
hair,· in the picturesque manner by Roostum, by uncivi-
lized people (perforated gems of a cylindrical form, being, of all forms,
the best adapted to the purpose); and modem travellers have redeemed·
from some curious antiques,t finding them thus worn by the
Arabian and Nubian women.
I do not, however, mean to assert that any single mode of portability
invariably prevailed: on the contrary, a subsequent essay will exhibit my
reasons for believing that these signets were oc<'asionally appended to the
walking-sceptres or staves, of Assyria and Canaan.
• To aome this may eeem at variance with my former clenial that these curioua monu·
menta were amulets or talisman•: but I meant only to affirm that they were engruen for the
purpoee of aealing with, and not of conjuring with : nor did I presume to deny that super11tition
might conceive of them aome vague notions of their possessing magical properties. A signet
may be supposed to poueea " talismanic virtues," more especially in a romantic poem, while
it il strictly, properly, and in plain prose, a signet. What in the preeent inatance was renown-
ed for ita taliamanic virtuea, Ferdoai bimeelf pronounces to have been 11 a .eal."
t Belzoni, if I rightly remember, adduces evidence of this fact.
Digitized byGoogle
11
But the era of the wild and wondrous exploits of Roostum, is nearer
to the time of Nebucbaduezzar, than to that of the patriarch Judah; nor
do I place so much reliance on the poem of Ferdosi, as on the evidence
I derive from Holy Writ ; and I therefore shall return to that earlier
period which brings the Hebrews, and those other nations which are be-
lieved to have been of Assyrian descent, as it were more in contact with
the customs of ancient Babylon, and of their Cbaldean ancestors.
In the Book of Job, there is an allusion so direct to the ancient mode
of sealing among those oriental nations of which I am treating, and even
to the peculiar form of their seals, that (as in the instance I have cited
from Ferdosi,) it would be far more difficult to suppose the passage
which contains it, is not copied from the pre-existing practice, than that
it is. The.rpassage occurs in the thirty-eighth chapter, where the Al-
mighty himself is introduced as silencing the controversy between Job
and his friends, by asserting the eternal truths of his own omnipotence,
as displayed in the wonders of creation. Having spoken of the forma-
tion of the earth, the clouds, and the sea, in a strain of sublime interro-
gation, be demands, in the twelfth and succeeding verses, " Hast thou
commanded the morning since thy days? Hast thou caused the day-
spring to know his place, that it might take bold of the ends of the
earth ?-It is turned as clay to the seal," &c.
Dr. John Mason Good, who has favoured the public with a new and
luminous arrangement and translation of this extraordinary production,
affirms, that there is hardly any passage in the whole poem that has been
supposed so difficult of elucidation as that which I have cited ; "nor
(continues he) have 1 hitherto met with a single rendering that is perspi-
cuous, or will bear a critical examination. Schultens says, he has com-
pared and examined with great attention the different attempts of inter-
preters to explain the fourteenth verse, but confesses, .that from none of
them has be been able to extract its meaning; and even Reiske, the bold-
est critical expositor we are possessed of, finishes with exclaiming, Fa-
teor me non capere."
Now Schultens and Reiske have failed o( their object, not (as may
well be supposed) from lack of scholarship or of judgment, but for want
c
Digitized byGoogle
12
of the local antiquarian knowledge which these ancient cylinders sup-
ply; and Dr. Good himself, in this instance, (however admirably he has,
in other respects, treated his subject), is, from the same cause, not a whit
more successful than his predecessors. His Yersion of the passage m
question, is,-
u Within thy days hut thou ordained the dawn,
And appointed to the day-spring his p01t,
That they should lay gold on the akirta of the earth,
ADd evil-doers be terrified away from it ?
Canst thou cause them to bend round u clay to the mould 1
So that they are made to aet like a garment ?"
As the sense of these verses is obscure; as it differs from the rendering
of every other Hebrew scholar that I have consulted ; and does not ap-
pear consistent with common sense or itself, even with the help of two
pages of notes ; I shall venture to argue that it cannot be the true mean-
ing of the original. We may safely believe that evil-doers were not
in the days of Jol>, any more than at present, terrified away from skirts,
or other places, where gold was laid. Neither does the substitution of
fllould for seal at all clear the sense, but the contrary; for Dr. Good, re-
marking on this verse, says, that " Canst thou cause them to bend round
as clay to the mould?" would be rather more literally rendered, if the
word to were omitted, and if it were written " Canst thou cause them
to bend round as clay the mould?'' but here again, in his aversion to the
idea of a seal, he says, this really means, not as clay causes the mould
to bend round, but "as the mould doth clay."
I shall now request attention whilst I, fact by fact, and inference by
-inference, pursue the meaning of these verses in the manner that appears
to me the most simple and perspicuous ; at the same time not disregard-
' ing that impressive opening of the chapter containing them, which, to the
of time, should sound awfully in the ears of biblical critics.
The chapter begins, " Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirl-
wind, and said, Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without
knowledge?" and after those grand interrogations which have been so
frequently admired, respecting the formation of the earth, clouds, ·and
Digitized byGoogle
1ft
sea, be proceeds : " Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days?
Hast thou caused the day-spring to koow his place that it might take
hold of the ends of the earth, that the wicked might be shaken out
ofit?"--
Some slight degree of confusion between the light of morning, and
that religions light, or day-spring of truth and justice, to which it is
likened, must here be confessed to exist (at least in the English transla-
tion); and for the transition from literal light, to light personified and in-
vested with knowledge and power, the idiom of the Hebrew language,
or the elevated ardour of the poet's imagination, must be accountable.
If it is not critical, it is grand: and scarcely does the want of gramma-
tical construction throw eveo a faint shade over the general meaning of
the sentence; nor does it affect at all the metaphor of the seal that fol-
lows, and which it is my purpose to explain. The day-spring t.o be un-
derstood in the second interrogation, is poetically adverted to by St.
Luke, (chap. i. ver. 7,) on the occasion of Zachariah's prophecy respect-
ing the appearance of St. John the Baptist, the Aurora of the sun of
righteousness ; where he says, "The day-epring from on high bada vi-
sited us, to give light to them that sit in darkness." In Job, however,
the personified day-spring is made to "take hold of the ends of the earth,
that the wicked might be shaken out of it:" that is to say, their wicked-
ness being brought to light, the punishment which legal justice inflicts,
shall folJow the exposure. This meaning results, even to the bible-read-
ers of the present day; but what more terrible sentiment must have been
felt by those disputants who, throughout the poem, have been darkening
counsel by words without knowledge, it might be thought foreign to our
antiquarian purpose to attempt to explain.
The next verse proceeds, " It is turned as clay to the seal, and they
stand as a garment," or, as the latter member of the sentence is rendered
by Junius and Tremellios, "they present themselves like her coverings."
It seems here proper to note that, as the text implies-the sealing sub-
stance of the land of Uz, and probably that of the nations on the banks
of the Euphrates, at this remote -period, was clay-the ooze ofthat river :
the very same substance, levigated, perbaps, of which the stamped Baby:.
c 2
Digitized byGoogle
14
Ionian bricks are formed; and the better sort of that pottery whose frag-
ments abundantly bestrew the sites of Babylon and Susa, even at pre-
sent-the· potter's cJay of the ancient prophets, and what is still used·for
the purpose of sealing• in some parts of the East. It may also be
worthy of remark, that, of the various substances (such as waxes, pastes,
&c.) on which I have tried to impress these ancient signets, I have found
clay the fittest for the purpose both of receiving and retaining the im-
pr€
'8sion ; and though a Copernican objector might argue here, thaf it is
not the light of the morning which is turned, but the earth toward the
light, yet this would be casuistry : the poet who wrote this wonderful
book, probably believed otherwise ; or, if this point be still regarded as
of any importance, it may be answered, So does the signet which is com-
pared to· the earth, in fact, tuni (on itN axis, during the operation of im-
pressing it) toward the clay ; and if it be true, as Volney has asserted,
that some of the oriental nations of antiquity believed the earth to be of
a cylindrical form,t and have so represented it among tkeir Aierogl!Jpllics,
the metaphor will be still more complete; and the words contained in our
.English translation of the preceding verse, " that it might take hold of
the ends of the earth," be expressively correct, whether we regard the
word it as referring to the light of morning, or as denoting that search-
• Mr. Harmer says, "The doors of Joseph's granary in Old Cairo are kept carefully 1eakd,
but its inspectors do not make use of wax on thi11 occasion, but put their seal upon a handful of
-clay." Tbia may p018ibly have some traditional reference to the practice of Joseph himself;
aince it appears from Mr. Harmer's account, that there is a lock· on the granary-door.-Har-
mn'l OblenHJtio111, vol. ii. p. 457. '
t To pursue these wanderings of philosophy further than tbe tracks of their aberration may
happen to lead toward the end of our own journey, would Mt be wise. Count Volney, perhaps,
caught this idea from Euaebins; according to whom (see book i. chap. viii. of his "Preparation
for the Gospel") Anaximander derived this notion of the cylindrical form of the earth from
Tbales, and Tbales probably from the Babylonian philosophy, or from that of Arabia, with whicb
the author of Job was also well acquainted. But both Tbales and Anaximander were of Phami-
cian extraction ; and as we find no corroboration of the notion of the form of the earth being
cylindrical among tbe antiquitiea of Egypt, there is every reason for our supposing it of Baby·
Ionian or lEtbiopian origin. It is, however, of no further importance to the object of our re-
searches, than as it may contribute to abew that these latter countriea are the real parents of
that constellated aphere which modern astronomy baa derived from the Greeu.
Digitized byGoogle
15
ing ray of Providence which brings moral turpitude to view. The latter,
however, is the meaning to which the text before us has more especial
reference. "It is turned as day to the seal, 'and they stand or present
themselves as a garment," means, that the wicked spoken o£ in the pre-
ceding verse, stand Or expoRed to view, like the embroidery of
a garment at the approach of light.-Or rather, I. think, when this verse
is regarded, together with the preceding, the analogy is, that the wicked,
and the dark contents of the engraving, are both.cast off, as· a· garment
is cast off,-a thing that bas fitted and adhered.
It is the blending of the literal and the figurative meanings together,
(which is done in all the translations that I have had opportunity of con·
suiting), that has somewhat perplexed the passage, and conspired with
their ignorance of cylindrical signets, and their non-advertence to the
science of astronomy, to perplex also those commentators who have
busied themselves in its explication. They have fancied that the seals of
the land of Uz could be of no other form than that of the seals which are
in modern use. But now that these revolving seals are produced, I should
expect that the clouds of learned conjecture which have obscured the
·subject, would be dispelled, and the meaning of this mysterious passage,
shine forth like the morning light in the superb metaphor before us: for,
from the whole passage, when viewed with the signets, results an ·in-
teresting and beautiful similitude between three dissimilar .things; that
is to say, between the light of morning beaming on, and passing round,. a
darkened world, and disclosing its contents ; and that intellectual light,
emanating from the Deity, which exposes in their true forms the dark
deeds and moral deformities of the wicked ;• and ·the operation of im-
pressing one of these ancient cylindrical signets on clay, which bends as
the cylinder revolves in delivering its impression, stands around it curv-
edly as a garment, (till you flatten it while in.a moist state,) and renders
conspicnous to view the dark contents of the intaglio engraving. ·
* The words which in Job immediately follow these, are perfectly homogeneous with the
explanation which I here venture to submit. " For from the wicked their light is withheld,''
dearly means that providence discloses the evil deeds of the wicked, by means of which their
infatuation renders them blind to the approach. The remainder of the 15th is easily un-
derstood, and has no reference to our cylinders.
Digitized byGoogle
16
That there should exist a simi1ar reference to a signet, perhaps to '-
signetofa similar kind, in anotherof the most ancient of poems ;-that the
Grecian lyre of Orpheus should respond to the Hebrew harp of the poet
ofJob,-is another curious fact which might serve to confirm (if such con-
firmation ware peedftd) the justness of the poetical analogy before us. In
the Orphic hymn to Apo11o, or t/uJ Sun, that deity is addressed as posses-
sing the signet which stamps the darkened world with the destined va-
rieties of the seasons.-Dr. Dodd bas rendered the passage,
- - - - - - " Nature's tribes,
No leas than NATURE, to thy harmony
Owe the variety and pleasing change
OfSeuooa,-
- - -
.Wherefore thou the mtJrl:ing·•eal
Of the whole world poueuest.
And in a previous part of the hymn, whilst invoking the same celestial
power, the poet says,
'l'he whole world's eztremitie• are thine:"
which is also in strict accordance with the stanza in Job respecting the
day-spring's knowing his place, that it might take hold of the etub of the
earth.
But io justice to the author of the Hebrew or Arabian poem,-which-
.soever it originally was,-1 should not quit this te.xt, without noticing
also, the depth of astronomical knowledge which is contained in it,
" Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days ? Hast thou
cauaed the day IJIN'V! to how his place, that it might take hold on
the ends of the earth ?"-when combined with that other sublime as-
sertion of the power of Jehovah, "His hand incurvated the flying ser-
pent,"• it shews that the poet and those of his readers whom he
diately addressed, were informed of the spiralpatA;-that is to say, ap-
parent annual path-of the sun through the heavens. The supposition
*Thus rendered by Dr. Good, with whom I have the pleaaure to agree as to the astronomical
interpretation to be put upon this verse. The immediately preceding words of the context,
" By his spirit bath he garnished the heavens," no doubt led him to this conclusion, and can
justly lead to no other.
Digitized by Google
17
that the author and his readers or hearer&, were thus ·informed, gives em-
phatic and forcible meaning to the question, " Hast thou caused the
day-spring to know his place?" because that place varies from day to
day. In the vernal season, and at the remote era of the.patriarch, the
day sprung from the stars of Taurus ; but in the summer season from
those of Leo.
The justness and profundity of observation that is implied in the text;
" By his spirit hath he garnished the heavens I His hand incurvated the
flying serpent;" and the creativ.e and presiding power ofJehovah, that
is asserted and displayed in it; are not fully manifested, as the passage
has commorlly been explained.-Not that more is meant than meets the
ear, but that what meets the ear cannot also meet the mind, unless it be
astronomically regarded : and the generality of annotators have on
contrary, supposed the flying, or "crooked serpent," (as it is ren-
dered in the common English bibles), to allude literally to the incnna-
tions of the serpent of earth.
I wish to impress this consideration, because the existence of the
science of astronomy in the advanced state which this text presupposes,
in the age and country of Job, is one of the strongest confirmations that
could possibly be offered, of the soundness and truth of the principles
upon which I shall proceed to attempt the explanation of the Chaldean
hieroglyphics. · " Upon this rock will I build my church."
I shall here beg leave to close my present reflections on the use to
which these ancient gems were applied. I have the honour to be, &c.
Digitized byGoogle
ESSAY II. TO CAPT. ABRAHAM LOCKETT, SEC. TO THE COUNCIL
OF THE COLLEGE AT FORT WILLIAM IN BENGAL, M.R.I.A. &c.
DEAR S1a,-More than a year ago, I had the pleasure of sending
you my printed Letter to Sir Joseph Banks, on those cylindrical gems
of Assyria, which you had the honour of bringing from Babylon to .Eng-
laud ; wherein I have endeavoured to shew that they are the kind of sig-
nets which were in use among the Sabrean • nations of remote antiquity,
* This word, which signifies worshippers of the stars, baa been variously spelled, and by
authors of high respectability. Among them are Jones, and Sir William Drum-
mond. The last is probably right in affirming that tz at the beginning gives the true pronun-
ciation : yet as this is unusual to English ears and pens, I have preferred Sabaan on the whole,
thinking that he who baa simplicity and Sir W. Joaes on his side,cannot he far from propriety.
A better reason may be, I had begun to print "Sabman" before I thought of writing this note.
Sabt%an is, by most lexicographers, derived from the Hebrew word for an Host, or from the
proper name of the patriarch Saba, the son of Cuah ; but, by Wilkins, it is derived, with
more probability, perhaps, from the Arabic Sabda, a star, rising or coming forth. See his
Arabic and Peraic Dictionary, vol. i. p. 586.
Digitized by Coogle
19
and which are repeatedly mentioned in the Pentateuch, the book of Job,
and other parts of the sacred Scriptures. That paper has subsequently
been published in the Archreologia of the and
sufficient time has elapsed since its publication, .for to have witi'JeSSed
some of its effects, of which you will not, perhaps, be tO· hear.
Indeed, anythingrelating to these curious antiqoe8, can scarcely fail to
be regarded, at least with complacency, by him· who, in· modern tJnie&,
has revived in Europe, and throughout Europe and Asia,:is.:eitpected to
gratify, adeep antiquarian interest concerning the.remains, the history,
the geographical site, and the remote customs, of ancient Babylon.
Tbe effects of my Arcbmo.logical Essay to which I allude, ·have·been
harMJsoine·and 'frank testimonials, beth oral and written, from·sOIDe intet-
. .
ligent antiquaries and scholai'H, al(longst whom I haTe the to
name your friend, Sir William Ouseley ; the reverend and learited SeCT&
tary 'of the Newcastle Sdciety of Antiqnariefi; and, Mr. Frend,·who·
some years ago distinguisbe<l ...himself at Camhtidge. by the nrm stand
which he made in faTo.ur of religious liberty of opinion. · Meanwhile,
others have said,-loud enough even for me to hear,-that they alwafs
knew the engraved cylinders were seals.
Of the gentlemen who have done me the honour to write on the occa-
sion, it cannot but prove agreeable to you that I am authorized to men-
tion the above by name. Sir William (in a letter addressed to me from
Crick Howell) says, "It has gratified me much to find that my opinion
in some respects, coincides with your's. In others, there may, perhaps,
be some little difference." The Reverend Mr. Hodgson, addressing him-
self to Mr. Bewick, tbe celebrated artist of Newcastle, has the following
passage: " I have seen Mr. Landseer's Essay on the Babylonian gems.
He is very right with respect to their use ; and his interpretation of Job,
chap. xxxviii. ver. 14, is, I think, very natural and ingenious. Their
being intaglios, shews that they were intf'nded for sealing .
with ; and clay,
instead of wax, has been commonly used in the .East."
You will read with at least equal satisfaction, that the cylinders and
astronomical explications which I have shewn to Mr. Frend, have so far
satisfied the well-known science and discernment of that gentleman, as
to call forth those complimentary testimoniea which you will find in his
Digitized byGoogle
20
"Beauty of the Heavens Displayed" for 1821, and which are too long
to be inserted here.
On the whole, so many persons have expressed themselves favourably
of the contents of my paper, as to afford me reason to suppose-not that
it is free from error, but-that a large proportion of its readers are satis-
fied of the general truth of its allegations. Yet some few and
thinking persons· I have met with, who freely acknowledge they " don't
above half believe it."
For this incredulity there are two reasons: the first of which is, the
sceptical vis inertite which is generally in a direct ratio to the strangeness
of au antiquarian discovery ; and the second, that-as the subject appears
to me at this distance of time-I have not above half explained the lead-
ing on which the discovery-if you shall allow it to be one-
must finally rest.
Your residence, my dear Sir, in another hemisphere; and the delays
and interruptions that have unfortunately beeri attendant on our inter-
course; have prevented me from knowing how far I i:nay indulge in the
pleasure of finding our opinions ·of these mysterious and interesting
mains of antiquity, coincident. Should we differ, it may not be too much
to suppose that some sparks of light will probably be elicited from the
friendly collision ; and I shall endeavour to console the regret that must
be consequent to such difference, in the belief,-the hope, at Jeast,-tbat
from the more complete developement of your opinions and reasoning
respecting them, which will naturally result, the public will gain in in-
formation at least, as much as I shall lose in credit.
Whatever immature opinions I bad formed on the subject at the time
of writing my letter to Sir Joseph Banks, it now appears to me that my
statement and explanation of the general use of these curious cylinders,
of which alone I in that paper professed to treat, should have been traced
upward as near to the origin and reasons of that use, as I might have
been able to approach. And further, it appears that the anxiety I felt
at the time of writing that letter, not to say anything of their engraved
contents, Jest I might chance to clash with your sentiments respecting
them, withheld me from making those references, to history, to the origi-
nal nature of signets, and to the ancient practice and purpose of sealing,
Digitized byGoogle
21
which are necessary to a complete elucidation of the subject of my re·
searches. But this anxiety, with its consequent restraints, your .late
epiHtle from Calcutta has converted into a pleasing obligation, on niy
part, to say everything concerning thew ·that I believe to ·be true, and
that I think contribute to the gratification of that very· laudable
curiosity on the part of the public, which is now beginning to shew itself
both at.bome and abroad.
To return, then, to the further unfolding of these .matters.-Though
there be an established connexion, and one that is well understood, be..
tween signets, and the custom or practice of sealing; and between the
noun signet, and the verb to seal, which expresses the use now made of
signets ; yet there is no such necessary connexion between them as
should have led to confusion of the terms: so far from it, that, like oat/&.
and swearing, the words signet and seal, though now related by mar-
riage, are of different philological families. But men are so much,-
so almost entirely-in the habit of using the word seal both as noull
and verb ; of confounding, in their ordinary mode of speech, the im-.
pression with the matrix ; and of considering the word seal, when
used as a noun, and signet, as precisely identified in their meaning,
that, by many, no suspicion even, is entertained of their meanings
having ever been distinct; yet that they were so, and must have been
so originally, I trust I shall be able to render mauifest. In fact, I
might here appeal from all languageH to the natural constitution of the
human mind. In the accuracy of its aspirations, the understanding of
man absolutely requires this discrimination ; and yet the absence of cri-
tical distinction in this case, as far as written language is concerned, must
be allowed to be no new thing, for throughout the Hebrew Scriptures,
the word t::mn (Cnetham or Gnotham) is employed to express both:the
signet and the impression from it; and the reader is left to collect which
is meant, from the context, and from attendant circumstances.
Not that I intend maintaining that the signet was not used, and even
originally invented, for the purpose of yielding impressions; or entertain·
the least doubt or dii!Jtrust of the historical facts recorded in the Bible
and by Josephus, where. the use·of the .signet is mentioned. Of these
will readily be recollected, that the King of Babylon closed up the en-
D
Digitized byGoogle
trance of the temple of Baal, and that of the den of lions, to which the
prophet Daniel was consigned, by application of the royal signet ; to
which, in the latter instance, were added impressions from the signets of
his nobles. The text here alludes also to the irrevocability of the seals
of the Medes and Persians, by adding, " that the purpose might not be
changed." Far from intending to express the smallest doubt of these
and similar acts, I mean only that the word signet, in its primitive signi-
fication, carrying with it no advertence to such uses, cannot be derived
thence, but is of more recondite interpretation.
SIGNET is from the same root, and belongs to the same verbal family,
with Signal, .Ensign, Sig.ature, Insignia, Assignment, Signify, Assigna-
tion ; and the root, or etymon, from which all these, with a long et cetera•
have grown, lies deep; far deeper than the later Signum, from which the
dictionaries derive them, bU:t which is itself derived, along with them,
from the Hebrew root l'T'IN .A.tA, by some Hebraists pronounced Otk, but
I believe more properly .A.tla, which, in our language, is rendered with
sufficient fidelity, by the term Sign.
When I say Hebrew root, I mean that from which the idea or mean-
iag, not the word signet, bas grown. You will readily be aware, that I
cannot here be intending to trace, ·with the etymologists, the progress of
a sound from one language, age, and country, to another ; but rather the
progress or transmission of an idea, from the primitive ages to the present.
Anything so anomalous, as that the .English word Sign can have been
derived from a sound so dissimilar as the Hebrew Atk, I cannot, I should
hope, be·supposed to mean. · If our word Sign came from the Hebrew
at all, it probably came, with the Greek l:HMA, from t::::lfU (Shem,) which is
Nanu.
It may not be superfluous to mention, that I do not here treat of that'
ordinary sense in which the names of common things are the accredited
signs of those things ; nor of that other branch of the meaning of Skem,
which the English word Notoriety would best express : but more recon-
ditely, of mystic signs, prophetic of the future; or emphatically denoting
the past.
I submit to your very superior knowledge of languages, that Park-
Digitized byGoogle
IS
hurst, ill voce t:lfll, has fallen into the mistake of confounding the Hebrew
word for notoriety and name, with that for ·sigD ; whilat D'Olivet, whose
leamed work on the Hebrew language, I hope has made its-way to your
Calcutta library, is directly to the purpoBe-traciog and transmitting
the mystic idea, with a scholar's ability: Julius Batemeanw'bile, not only
expressly agrees with him in defining ,," " a Bilf"," but adds, "some-
thing to come," which is, if posaible, still more pointedly to·my present
purpose, though J conceive the word alao to have occasioftal reference
to that which is past.
,,N.A..th,• or Sign, then, primarily meant, and still means-What? A
mystic mark, denoting &l)_d bringing to mind something absent; or some
immaterial essence intellectually apprehensible, bot not cognisable by
sense.
Perhaps few, ifany, words, in any language, are more purely and essen-
tially mental or metaphysical in their nature, than this; or.more connec_
tive of the relations of material existence, with the soul of thought, and
tbe phantoms.or realities of the "ideal world : .of what is known, with
what is unknown ; and only.guesaed at, or credulously believed.
Hence it has always been a cardinal point,-in many instances the very
pivot,-of mysticism. Hence, too, if we closely examine the individuals
of this verbal tribe, we find them scarce earthly.; something of a meta-
physical character, and of the expansive force of mind-something ofthe
mystery of immateriality, always seems to be in invisible attendance,
" above, about, or underneath," like tbe Ariel of Prospero's tempest.
To give a few examples of this :-what is a lignal, but an appearance
of mysterious import, known only to the initiated, but capable of exciting
from them the most reverent obedience? In another sense indeed this
• Dr. Buchan baa suggested a reason of aome weight in favour of AJIJ and not oM being the
true pronunciation of thia word, N Aleph or A ia the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet, (u
of the Greek and most others,) n Tau or T ia the lut. The character , placed between
tbeee in forming JftiJ, is not absolutely neceasary, but when used, ia merely a conjunction, or
connecting book: from the whole ftltllt. an occult nearly similar to that of St.
John tbe divine, in tbe fint chapter ofbia Apocalypse, aymboliaing and denoting the mean• of
connecting the first with the lut, or the beginning with the end.
D2
Digitized byGoogle
·word signal, means a prodigy! An occurrence memorably wonderful i
and depoting the invisible operation of superhuman power. Such mira-
cles are throughout the Old Testament, regarded and spoken of as being
signs, or sensible manifestations of the existence and power of the invisi-
ble Jehovah. When, in the eighth chapter of Exodus, the Lord orders
.Moses to stand before Pharaoh and threaten him with the infliction of
the plagueof flies, he commissions him to add, " I will sever in that day,
the land of Goshen in which my people dwell, so that no swarms of flies
shall be there, to the end thou mayest know that I am the Lord.-To-
morrow shaH this sign be."
Again, what is an ensign J A :Bag,-1 am answered,-or a symbolical
image held aloft. But, what is it to the warrior's mind ? What, but a
conventional representative of unseen power? of power which is not, and
.cannot, itself be an object of sense. Too often indeed, (if such matters
were here before our notice,) it is the mystic rallying point of unknown
principles; and-to our better refiection,-the dangerous focus of igno-
,rant force. Furthermore, what are insignia, but visible marks of royal, or
other high authority,-invisible, inaudible, untangible, in its essence? And
what is signature, but a sacred mental pledge, binding the future will
-itselfof the signer; and being the outward and visible mark of that faith
.which in its nature is mental, and not cognizable by external sense?
To this family. of words then belongs, and from this genealogical root
springs, the word signet: its termination et meaning no more in the ab-
stract, than advancement to the accomplishment of a purpose intended ;
which purpose, in the present case, is the manifestation of the sign :-or
else this termination is merely a diminutive, like the ette of the French,
in w.hich case signet, or signette, can mean no other than literally a mi-
niature sign.
It is well known that our Saxon ancestors, soon after the introduction
·of Christianity, when few men were clerks enough to execute a written
deed by the subscription of their names, were accustomed instead thereof,
as illiterate persons do at present, to sign with a cross ; of which it may
.bE- said, either that they made the mystic sign of the cross, or that the
cross which they made, was the sign of their plighted faith. It was the
Digitized byGoogle
. 25
ordinary mode of signature among the Anglo-Saxon Cliristians, ·who
were, with regard to their inability to write, in the predicament of most
of those Sabreans of old, whose signets, odnstruments of signing, weare
about to consider, and some of whom Jived in all probability, before
writing was invented.
It scarcely be added, that in both cases, as in the modern mode
of signing by subscription of the name of the party, the signature was
the sensible and permanent mark of invisible sentiment. Some confu.;.
sion, however, must be allowed to have arisen between the meaningof the
words signing, and sealing, which in legal deeds are now of consecutive
execution; and it has arisen in the following manner.
Jn the dark ages which succeeded the overthrow of the Roman power,
not only few men could write, but there were no artists capable of cut-
ting seals; signature with the cross was therefore among the Christiam1,
in a great degree a thing of necessity ; though they sometimes made use
of otherceremonies as signs, or tokens. But when art began to re-appear,
and engraved stones to. be raked up from the ruins of past sealing
was added; and as writing gradually became more known and practised,
subscription of names came also into vogue, introduced at first,
by learned clerks, and by way of noting whose signature had ratified the
deed that might be in question ; for even Charlemagne was not penman
to subscribe his own name, but was accustomed to sign with an
antique gem, which had been set for that purpose in the pommel' of his
sword, saying as be impressed it, " What I sign with the hilt, I will de-
fend at the point, of my sword."
Moreover, as the meanings of many words have been transitive, we can-
not wonder that the superior pledge of faith, by the same degrees, came
to be termed signing when applied to charters, treaties, or other bonds
of written compact; especially as so it is, both virtually and in fact. The
reader who is conversant in holy writ, will l"ecollect many passages, ·of
which it may be sufficient for me to advert to two or three, where the
words signet; seal, and sign, always expressing the meaning
which I have here annexed to them-sealing being then understood as
signing.
•
Digitized byGoogle
26
.When the prophet writes in the name of the Most High, " I
will shake the heavens and the earth ! and I will overthrow the throne
of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength of the heathen !-In that
daJ will [take thee, 0 Zerubbabel, my servant, son of Shealtiel, and will
make thee as a signet I for [ have chosen thee,--saith the Lord of Hosts."
I say, when the heaven-commissioned prophet writes thus, he does not
mean, as by ordinary figurative interpretation is generally understood,
that God will take Zerubbabel, and make him as a seal; but more em-
phatically, that he will make him instrumental in conveying divine intel-
ligence : a sacred denoter of mysterious and invisible things. All of
which prophetic language, (according to some commentators,) relates to
the important advent of the appearance of the Messiah.
For this reason too, when, as above cited, the gates of the temple of
Baal were closed, and the king's signet was affixed, the stood
there as the visible mark of " the divinity that doth hedge a king;" as a
sacred sign it stood, rendering virtually present to the spectator's mind,
that royal will and authority, which else were absent and invisible.
Nor was it thus in Bab!Jlon alone, but in all the great oriental nations :
perhaps because they were all of Sabman origin. The instrument which
transferred the exercise of the royal power and authority from the king
of .Egypt to the young Hebrew interpreter from the prison-house, was the
signet, (as mentioned in my firllt letter,) and in the Book of £gther we
read, that it was not less the visible mark of the royal will, throughout
the vast empire of Persia.
To the proclamation from Su.sa for the destruction of the Jews, the
sign manual of the sovereign was affixed in no other way than by appli-
cation of the signet, • which the king took from his own band, and in-
trusted to Haman for the purpose : and when this proclamation was re-
versed, the king again to·ok oft' his ring which he had taken from Haman,
and gave it unto Mordecai.
• This particular signet of the Persian monarch wu clearly a seal ri"tr• and might, or might.
not have been of the cylindrical form. There is a small Sabean signet of hematite thua
mounted, at the British Museum, of which I shall discourse in a future page.
Digitized byGoogle
That ..£schylus knew or believed that the signet was habitually used in
Greece for the same sacred purposes, and was the customary appendage
to written· deeds, from the period of the heroic ages, (probably from the
era of the invention or introduction of letters,) may be seen from 'his
Tragedy of the Suppliants: where PelasgusdeclarN to the herald,- ·
- - - - "'fbi• be aure
Ia strongly fixed, and never can be abaken:
Though not engraved on tableta, nor enrolled
In aeal-atamped volumea.n •
But other instances, attested by those classic writers who treat of the
heroic ages, may be recollected of the existence of sigoets among the
more ancient Greeks. We have already heard the poet of the Or.phio
hymn to Apolio, complimenting that deity on his possession of ·" the
marking seal of the whole world;" a poetical figure, certainly, but argu-
ing the fact, that signets, apparently revolving .signets, were well known
in the age and country of the author. And there is a story in Pausa-
niaat of Theseus, in <1uestioning the parentage of the second Minos, occa-
sioning him to throw his signet into the sea; which not only shews
existence of Cretan signets at the time, bot that important appeals were
made to them respecting nativities; a circumstance which will be found
to be no slight corroboration of those future speculations on antique sig-
nets, which I propose to myself the hooour of submitting to your notice.
This event is stated to have happened about half a century before the
Trojan war, and according to Pausanias, a picture of the subject by
Mycon, once adorned the beautiful little temple of Theseus at Athens.
And with regard to the ancient,-the very ancient--custom·of the Ara..
bian Penin.svla, two remarkable facts are observable: the first, that the
further we are able to retrospect toward the remoter periods, the more
we discover relative to the Sabrean signets: the second, that the .oldest
book extant, (which I believe to be that of Job,) should contain the moat
frequent allusions to them. In Genesis, the.mention of Judah's signet is
* Potter'• Tranalatioo. t Attica, chap. uii.
Digitized byGoogle
quite incidental, almost accidental, (one.might say,) and perhaps an im1d-
Indeed the whole of chapter xxxviii. appears a parenthetical
interpolation; or has the air at least, of having been subsequently intro-
duced, by some writer far more solicitous of genealogical accuracy, and
the naked truths on which it depends, than of moral decency or the de-
corum of patriarchal example. But in Job, the references to the signet
and its uses, are frequent, and in general not to be mistaken: nor does
the circumstance of its being a Sabman custom, appear to have interfered
with the pure Deism of the patriarch. Graven images, it will be reeol-
lected, had not then been forbidden.
In some of these passages, however, the allusion to signets is more
obvious than in others: of these, two are already adverted to in my first
essay. Among those where the allusion is at first sight less evident,
may be mentioned some verses in chapter xxxi.; where Job disputing in
the forensic style with .bis compurgators, says,
- " Who will consent to aummon me ?
There umy pledge-let the Almighty take notice of me,
And let mine adversary write down the charge.
Surely I would wear it on my ahoulder;
I would wind it round me aa a turban ;
I would diacloae to him the whole of my atepa;
I would meet him altogether as a witneu."
This part of the poem, at least, is evident}y of a dramatic cast, and· I
am decidedly of opinion, that when this great-minded challenge was ut-
tered by the suffering patriarch, be threw down, or exhibited, his signet.
The sense appears incomplete without such an act; and to what else
can it allude?
Dr. Good pertinently remarks on this passage, that" the real meaning
of the Hebrew term on which it hinges, ("'M") is a mark, gage, pledge, or
a seal. A legal security given to fulfil a contract;" which is precisely in
point. Whence Schultens renders the words, " En signaturam meam !"
and Parkhurst, " Behold my gage critical!" In short, without palpable
twisting of words, the passage can only be understood in one way,-
namely, as the words, accompanying the act, of a man conscious of in-
Digitized byGoogle
29
nocence, and strong in virtue, who gives a signed carte blanche, and says,
" write down what accusation you may think proper, and 1 will easily
defend myself, even though it were before the tribunal of the Almighty !"
Taking this fervency, or energy of manner, into the account, the phrase
" gage critical" has too much of critical refinement about it, and is at
the same time too vague, for the time and occasion. It were far more
natural for Job, in his excited state of mind, to have exclaimed, Bellold
'"!I signet: but he did not so exclaim-probably because the flat-faced
instruments of signature which belonged to the inferior• classes of so- .
ciety, were also called signets; be therefore habitually employed the
term which was at once suited to his high rank in life, and specifically
expressive of the kind of signet which he wore, and said, " Behold my
revolver:" for it is here worthy of our best attention, that the literal
" meaning of the Hebrew term on which it binges," (to use the words of
Dr. Good) is not merely a " mark, gage, pledge, or seal:" but, there is
an implied circularity of some sort, in this term-either in the form, or
mode ofemploying the signet, or both. The word is brief-suited to the
expression of rapid thought: as it is written, it consists only of an He-
brew Tau and a Resll, ("'n) which the learned Julius Bate interprets
as follows ; " To tum, or go about in such a circle, as a person who
turns and looks about him."t It is in fact, the radix of our .English
word tum, and as it is very of the revolving of a cylindrical
signet, it is not unlikely to have been the pronoun used to denote such
a signet, in the age and country of Job: indeed, if we carry our minds
back to those primitive ages and countries where abstract scientific
terms were not yet known, or were not cultivated, it is not easy to fancy
as a familiar a word more appropriate, or characterising better
a cylindrical signet, than would be a Revolver, or Tum-round, either
of which is precisely tantamount to Bate's definition.
The Hebrew word which is here in question, ("'.n, Turt) soundR like
4 Of these flat-faced aignet.s, the reader will find aome represented further on in the pre-
eent 1'olume. t Hebraia Critica, p. 720. t This word .,,, present• itself in other
parts of the sacred acripturea-for example, in the eeconcl chapter of the book of Bather, it ia
repeated twice-and in those place• it means tunt, and is literally 10 rendered in the Vulgate.
E
Digitized byGoogle
30
an ordinary, idiomatic, or colloquial expression; such as a skilful poet
would adopt-because he always finds it in nature-when he wishes to
represent the mind of his hero as goaded by undeserved suffering, or
animated by persevering hope. It puzzles the learned commentators
now, merely because the idiom of the language of Job is become obso-
lete. Should that of England at the same distance of time, share in
the same fate, and should a learned commentator of four thousand years
hence, arrive at such an expression in our poetry as,-There is my watch:
or, Behold my watch: he will in like manner, be puzzled to discover
that a watch was a chronometer, and the passage will be equally liable to
misconstruction, with the present in the poem of Job.
And this seems to require that we return for a moment to the argu-
ment which I have faintly shadowed forth in my first Essay; and con-
firms me in the opinion that the passage in chap. xxxviii. should be ren-
dered, It is turned as the seal to clay: or, applying it to Dr. Good's
verse, Canst thou cause it to turn round or revolve, as clay doth the
seal?
Considering all these circumstances, it is not difficult to suppose the
gage, pledge, orsignet,-which thepatient-and exemplary patriarch threw
down, or exhibited, with an earnestness so noble-minded,-to have been
one of those engraved cylinders, which are, collectively speaking, the
proper subject of our present investigation;. while it is not easy·to ima-
gine what else it could possibly have been.
Reverting to the earlier branch of our argument. It may not be
thought less worthy of our best attention, that the modern word oatil-
an awfnl and mysterious term, by which society itself is held together
so much more than by any other-that in my present view of the sub-
ject, it is almost literally the"Seal by which the bond of social compact
is rendered valid :-a word, which, containing both the o and the A, seems
to consolidate ·both the Hebrew modes of pronouncing or expressing a
mystic sign; a word which is pronounced atk, or AITH, in the northern
parts, and otk, or OATH, in the south, of our island-is from the same pri-
mitive radix: strictly speaking, it is that radix itself; and it still means
what it originally meant,-namely, a tnystic sign become a sacred pledge.
Digitized byGoogle
31
Again, the- Greek name of the Egyptian god of signs, AtllotAu, pro-
claims its oriental origin, being literally compounded of atk, and otk,
softened by a Greek termination. In Hebrew it was called, according
to most authorities, le Otkotk; and the .Egyptian pronunciation is be-
lieved to have been the same--or perhaps Atkotk, which, as their lan-
guage died, lost the initial and became Tkotk. It would seem that this
deity was really no other than the inventive genius to whom society was
first indebted, and will ever remain indebted most deE>ply, for the very
means of mental consociation :-for signs, both celestial and alphabetic;
and for ·oaths.
Among the learned authorities whom I have found it necessary to con-
sult upon this occasion, the agreement which exists, is sometimes occult
and mysterious, and sometimes more obvious and close. Perhaps the
most explicit and illustrative account of the word (Ath,) is to be
found in the " Hebraia Critica" of Rate: who after defining it to mean
ng., in the sense which I have lately submitted; treats of it as hE'aring
literal and more immediate relation to the " accessel!l .of the celestial
orbs," obviously meaning by accuses, the approaches of the orbs: and
notwithstanding the word accesses be now in .some degree obsolete in
this sense, yet is it in itself more pertinent and expressive of what is
really meant, than the word cDAjwnctiOfl8, which modern astrology has
substituted for it: because, the planets do approach, and retire, toward
and from, each other-which were aptly contradistinguished by acctde
and recede, (or accession and recession,)-bot they never conjoin.
To accumulate· authorities beyond a certain degree may be useless:
yet that any authority added to what I have adduced, will not increase
the reader's conviction, '"ith regard .to the mystic meaning of this He-
brew term, I cannot assume. The word, rmt, first presents itself in the
very first verse of the Hebrew Genesis, and in our .English bibles it is
translated " the heavens." Why is it so translated ?-Because, accord-
ing to the belief of the Chaldeans and the writer of Genesis, the heavens
consisted of mystic signs, or in other words, the mystic signs manifetsted
by the accesses and recesses of the celestial orbs, were the heavens.
The Hebrew professor Alexander, in commenting on this first verse,
E 2
Digitized byGoogle
32
has the following observation, " l"N, according to the Jewish commen-
tators is always an implication; here it is a tacit inference of an the
hosts of heaven; and in every other place it implies something more tlaan
is expressed." I have dwelt the longer on these Hebrew terms, and have
endeavoured to impress them the more permanently on the attention of
tliy readers, (particularly the mystic references to the celestial pheno-
mena,) on account of their importance to our future discussions.
Returning to the eloquent verses in Job ;-should the critics inquire
whether the art of writing was known at the time? and in what manner,
if known; and on what substance, written deeds were executed ? I ap-
prehend that the following answers might be returned. That writing was
known, is clear, not only from the existence of this poem, but also from
8everal passages contained in it. In chap. xiii. ver. 26, we find " Thou
writest bitter things against me:" in chap. xix. ver. 23, " 0 that my
words were written in a book :" and in the present text, " Let mine ad-
versary" write down the charge."-The substance on which written deeds
were executed, is not certainly known. It might be the Papyrus, which
according to Dr. Good, is alluded to in chap. viii. ver. J I, but is yet more
likely to have been the skins of young animals, to which the clay im-
pressions from signets very well adhere. But we should not pass
here some very sensible remarks of Parkhurst on this passage of Job, ·
and on the particular point before us: " Linen (he says) is one of the
oldest materials that ever was written upon, as appears by the bandages
of the Egyptian mummies still preserved, and to this Job probably al-
ludes in the passage just cited. This might readily be not only taken
on his shoulder, but bound about his head."•
An eminent scholar like you, (my dear Sir,) wiJJ not wonder that the
Biblical and classical references here made, are to the customs of Baby-
lon, Egypt, Persia, Greece, and Idumia, or Arabia, and not to those of
the Hebrew nation after their Exody; notwithstanding that the word
Ath, or sign, is confessedly an Hebrew word. But I write also for the
public, and there are among the public, those who may possibly feel
surprise at this circumstance, and who may have no objection to,
* Hebrew Lexicon, p. 501.
Digitized byGoogle
33
be informed that the reason is, Moses suppressed the wearing of signets,
as personal appendages, on account of their connexion with the Sabtean
superstition; though be did not, arid perhaps could not, entirely sup_
press the word. His laws no where enjoin.or require the use of a sig-
net, and I believe there is DO instance to be found of such use among
the Jews, for several ages subsequent to their Egyptian bondage:-nor
till their neighbourhood to the nations of Canaan, had infected them
with the superstitious practices of the Sabteans ; or in other words, bad
revived those of their Chaldean ancestors. After the frequent allusionS'
to signets in the poem of Job, and after the mention of the signet of
Joseph, whilst exercising the royal authority in·Egypt, and that of Judah
while he yet resided in Canaan, I believe that no more is to be read in
the scriptures of signets, or small sculptured signs, as existing among the
Jews, for some centuries; excepting their accidental mention (with the
view of expressing intaglio engraving) in the Book of Exodus; again in
the last of the Idyls of Solomon; and again in the passage which I have
quoted from Haggai :-the two latter of which are reflex lights, as an
artist would say; or what a logician would term, exceptions that· prove
the rule: for Zerubbabel, though an Hebrew by descent, and of the
vitical family, was a Babylonian by birth-and even by name, judging
from its ;-he was not only learned in the laws of Moses;
but.in the wisdom and sciences of the Chaldeaos also : and Haggai did ·
not prophesy, nor Zerubbabel officiate, until after the return of the Jews
from captivity. And with regard to the allusion in the Song of Solo-
mon, we should recollect that it occurs where the royal lover is addres-
sing, or addressed by, his beloved shepherdess, the black beauty of Baal-
hammon. Now Baal-Hamruoo or Ammon, (the aspirate being a com-
mon.Hebrew redundance) is a Sabtean appellation: the place was thus
named in honour of the Sun in Aries, and I believe is the same that in
the books of Kings and Chronicles is mentioned as having been built by
King Solomon, and is there denominated Baal•-Atk. We are to bear in
* See ,I Kings, ix. 17, and 2 Cbron. viii. 6. Whether tbia be the aame place that ia since
called Baal-bec, I am ignorant. I believe Baal-bek in the Hebrew language, carries the mean-
ing of Lord of tbe earliest or first, and the context abews that the geographical situation ot
Baal Atb, muat have been thereabout•.
Digitized byGoogle
34
mind that during the reign of that prince, Ammon or the Ram, w·as the
first of the celestial signs-the leading sign, and more emphatically tlae
sign, because it was the sign, or mansion, which Baal-that is, the Lord or
Ruler (the Sun) honoured with his presence at the opening ofthe year.-
Baal .A..th (Lord of the Sign) and Baal Ammon, (Lord of the Ram) were
therefore synonymous.. When the reference to the signet·in Canticles is
considered under these circumstances, its mention will appear to have
been .dictated by local propriety, and to be a characteristic and poetical
touch, whether. sung during the period of Solomon's idolatry, when he
was erecting fanes in honour of Chemosh and Ashteroth, or not :-I con-
ceive the subject of what remains of the engraving on your.largest cylin-
der, to be Ashteroth-Kamaim, leading onward Baal-Ammon: but of this
I shall treat in a more proper place.; here it would be digressing.
But I ought to notice here, that regal signets, used as instruments of
authority in the signature and promulgation of public edicts, appear to
have crept into use after the age of Solomon, and perhaps from the time
when the monarchical power of Saul was superinduced on the republic
of Moses. \Vhether they contained celestial signs, or more than verbal
inscriptions of the names and office of the kings, is no where recorded ;
but with one of these, Jezebel appears to have signed her forged• letters
to the elders: and in the time of the prophet Jeremiah, very particular
mention is made of another signet, used as an instrument of legality in
the purchase of a field,t from which it would appear to have been the
custom ofthe Hebrew conveyancers in the reign of Zedekiah, to deposit
a sealed copy ofevery deed of transfer of landed property, in some public
office. Furthermore; the mol!lt important occasion of Hebrew sealing
that is any where upon record, is that of the ratification of the new
nant by the '' princes, .Levites, and priests," which is particularly
tailed by Nehemiab.t Sealing is here obviously tantamount to signing;
or rather is signing ; and it seems pretty clear, from the specification of
the names of the signing priests and chiefs, and from other circumstances,
that among the Jews, the astronomical signets of the patriarchal ages had
* 1 Kings, xxi. 8. t Jeremiah, xxxii. 7, 8, &c. to 41. t "We make a sure
covenant and write it, and our princea, Levitea, and priests seal unto it." ix. 89.
Digitized byGoogle
36
by this time been superseded by signets bearing the respective Mmts of
their proprietors. It will be recollected that Nehemiah was cup-bearer
to the Persian king, (Artaxerxes Longimanus, as is supposed) at the
court of Susa.
That Moses decidedly purposed to abolish,-and did abolish-the use
of portable signets, (such as were worn by their Chaldean ancegtry,) among
the republican Hebrews, is evident, both from what be bas writtoo,• and
the silent, or ordained, substitution of other species of signs, ceremonies,
and marks to assist the memory, which took place under him and his
successor. In the decalogue, such signets as are here under our notice,
are expressly forbidden under the phrase, " graven images." And the
astronomical hieroglyphics, or signs, from which they took their
nation, and which alone constituted the subjects of these signets before
the invention of letters, being, for very good reasons to which I shall
presently advert, prohibited; verbal inscriptions, after the manner of the
tablets of the decalogue, were in some instances substituted : upon other
occasions however, signs, though· not of the same kind as is on
the signets, continued to be used. On entering .the promised land, the
twelve chiefsof Israel brought, each on his shoulder, a stonefrom the bed
of the Jardan, which Joshua set up "as a sign;" that when the Hebrew
children of future ages should inquire of their fathers the meaning tbere:-
of, they should be informed of the miraculous passage of that river,
which had been effected the preceding day. And the traditional purpose
of this sign appears to have been fully answered, for the same chapter
(iv.) of the book of Joshua, informs os that the stones thus placed, " r&-
main unto this day,"-that is to say, the day when this part of the book
• " Many of the obeervance& of the Mosaic Jaw, which seem to be trifling, or to serve only
to exercise the obedience of the Jewa, were instituted in order to preserve that people from
the idolatry and superstition of the Zabii; I think we may undentand by that name, not only
the Chaldeans, but all other nation• alao who were guilty of the like practicea, by whom the
laraelit.ea were in danger of being infected; especially the Egyptians, among whom they lived
10 long, and the inhabitants of those countriea whose land they were to poaseu, and in whose
neighbourhood they were to be settled.''-.Dr. Long'• .Aitronomy, ch. ii. The Profeuor aup•
porta himself by an boat of authoritiea, amongat whom are Maimonidea, Scaliger, D'Herbelot,
and Spencer.
I
Digitized byGoogle
36
was written; and the manner of using these words, seems to imply that
some considerable time elapsed .between the date of the event, and the
time ofits being recorded. And in chap. viii. ver. 32, we read that when
Joshua had advanced to Mount Ebal, he there inscribed on stones the
law of Moses: but here the word sign is not used, (nor any equivalent
expression,) because it has no reference to what is clearly, fully, and
without curtailment, expressed.
The prime cause of the postdiluvian apostacies from the purer deism
of Noah and of Job, appears to have been the ignorant confounding, by a
superstitious people, of SIGNS, with CAUsEs. From this source pro-
ceeded the idolatry which is at once disclaimed and reproved by the lat-
ter, in a sublime and often cited text, and which it also appears was in
his time and country cognisable by the magistracy. "If, (says the vener-
able sufferer) I .beheld the sun when it shined, or the moon progressive
in brightness; and. my heart hath been secretly enticed, or my mouth
hath kissed my hand: this (also) were an iniquity to be punished by the
Judge; for I should have denied the God that is above."• And on ac-
count of this prevailing heresy, Moses,-either by divine direction, or,
finding that those whom he had undertaken to govern and instruct, were
prone to sympathise in ·these idolatrous practices with the neighbouring
nations of Canaan, Chaldea, and Egypt,-expressly prohibited their
making unto thell\selves "graven images,-the likenesses of things in hea-
ven above," &c.; and this at the very time that cherubim were permitted,
and even ordained, to be exhibited in the tabernacle, and on the ark of
the covenant.
Now, to have been made to tkemselves; that is, for each man to keep
in his own possession whilst sojourning in the desert, these prohibited
articles must have been small, to have been termed likenesses oJthings in
heaven above,-objects of worship too! they must-at least, bearing in
mind the pervading astronomy of this remote period, I find it impossible
to come to any other conclusion-have borne some real or fancied re-
semblance to planets and constellations ; and to have been graven images,
* Job, xxxi. 26, 27, 28.
Digitized byGoogle
37
they must have been sculptured ou hard and durable substances, and
sculptured in intaglio : we should recollect too, that such works are in
the Bible, expressly and repeatedly distinguished from cast figures, or
molten images," as well aS from such as were overlaid with beaten
gold :-in short, these Chaldean engravings, and the portable part of the
hieroglyphical engravings of Egypt, are the only productions that have
descended to our knowledge, which at all accord with what is de8cribed
and prohibited in the second commandment: and so intent do we find
the great legislator of the Hebrew nation, to have been upon the accom-
plishmE'IIt of this so utterly incapable did he find the
children or Israel, of distinguishing betwet-n causation and. concoruitancy
-that, to enforce his prohibition, he even ran the risk of making Omni-
potence appear jealous ; Omniscience, unjust; and himself unreflecting,
or uninformed.
Yet, in apology• for this wayward people, we may remark that the
opinions and example of other nations at this early period-but chiefty
no doubt, those of their Chaldean ancestry-appear to have had consider-
able influence on their character "and conduct. From the cities of Ur
and Babylon, northward, to the remote regions of Caucasus, and ·the
Scythian nomades ; and southward, to the shores of the Erythrian ocean
-" the infatuated nations adored the sun, the moon, and the hosts of
heaven. After men had lost the knowledge of the true God, it may
easily be conceived that they fell intO this species of idolatry." Un'der
the serene skies of these Asiatic climates, " the attention of the people
was naturally, and seems to have been continually directed to the obser-
vation of the celestial bodies; the movements of which soon came to be
associated in their minds with the fates of individuals, and with the des-
tinies ofempires."t Here then, let us pause for a moment, and bestow
a little time and attention upon that distinction between coocomitancy
and causation, which has been of so great importance to mankind.
Sir Thomas Brown, in his chapter on the dog-star and canicular days,
* I uee the word apology here, in the aenee in which Bishop Watson bas written an "Apo-
logy for the Bible." t Sir William Drummond's Disaertation on the 14th Chapter of
GenesiL
F
Digitized byGoogle
38
lays down the distinction to which I would here solicit attention, in an
able and perspicuous manner, of which the compressed substance is, that
common opinion erred in making that a cause, which the wise regarded
but as a sign: that the latter did not consider the rising and setting of
the stars, as any part of causality, but of notice and signification of the
changes of the seasons, and other terrestrial effects, such as the rising of
the Nile :-as the customary signals or tokens of the approach of those
phenomena: as unerring and faithful prognosticators of what was about
to happen.
Hence the reliance of the Chaldean priests and shepherds of the first
ages, was firmly fixed on these celestial oracles. They were infallible
forerunners-not- regarded as the causes, till astrologic piety became de-
praved; but in the expressive of Brown-" the testifiers of certain muta-
tion." Hence too, those asterisms of the celestial sphere, which lie in
the zodiac, or annual path of the sun, were termed signs, and are so
termed still, notwithstanding that astrology, which alone declares the
reason why, is become obsolete. The graven images of the constella-
tions were also signs or because they visibly, and in the light of
day, brought to mind what could not then be seen : at night, the stars
themselves w.ere doubtless regarded as denoting the sacred will of Deity,
as expressed in the order of nature-as outward and visible signs of the
awful and mysterious volitions of that power, which in its essence is invi-
sible, spiritual, and incomprehensible. Wherefore the prophet Jere-
miah, in a solemn.deprecation of the Chaldean idolatry,• declares, "Thus
saith the Lord-learn not the way.ofthe luatlum; and be not dismayed
at the signs of heaven, though the heathen be dismayed at such : for the
customs of that people are vain:"- and when the writer of Genesis first
mentions the stars in his account of creation, be speaks of them without
the least ambiguity or hesitation, as being sensible marks of the will of
Deity, as it developes itself in the ordained course of nature; and he em-
phatically says, or rather professes to repeat from the voice of Elohim
himself, " Let them be for signs and for seasons,"-a sentence which is
41 Chap. x. 2.
Digitized byGoogle
39
not only thus recorded in the Vulgate, and in the Septuagint, but also by
Dr.·Geddes, Mr. Parkhurst, Mr. Bellamy, and by all the translators whom
1 have had opportunity of consulting, excepting Mr. King, who never-
theless retains the same sense, if he not strengthen it, by the substi-
tution of significators, for signs. ;·
I observe that the ·Rev. G. Townsend writes, in the Classical Journal,
that Moses meant the words, " He made the stars also," (in Genesis, i.)
as a lesson of reprimand to the star worshippers. It was certainly a
simple and pertinent assertion of the superiority of the Abrahamic faith.
It was like Aaron's serpent swallowing up those of the Egyptian magi-
cians : and was like saying to the Sabmans, our God is the creator of yours.
But the author of Genesis perhaps is still more profoundly philosophical,
when he writes of the sun, moon, and stars ; " Let them be for signs and
for seasons." And the Hebrew text which has been thus rendered, whe-
ther or not it should be thought indicative of the Chaldean origin of
this part of the scriptures, can only be understood to mean by the term
signs, mystic marks or tokens.
In the primitive simplicity of those early ages, when the idea of sys-
tems of sunR and worlds revolving through boundless space, had noJ
been apprehended; wonder, the concomitant of ignorance, waR strong;
and as wild curiosity, and hope-the passions of childhood-felt no re-
straining power, it required but one enthusiastic step, to connect these
sublime and unerring revolutions, with the little brief destinies of man:
and this step was taken with the less hesitation, as the Sabmans had pre-
viously observed that the changes of the seasons, and the advancement
and decline of the animal and vegetable portions of creation, were in-
variably connected with the risings and settings of the constellations.
But, my dear Sir, I must draw this protracted demand on your pa-
tience, toward a close. What is the general summary of the argument
which its statements hold forth ? Simply this : That to derive the word
signet from the practice of sealing, would be an inversion of the natural
order of the growth of thought and language: and that the engraved
cylinders, and other gems, with which you have enriched the antiquarian
world, and of which I am about to essay the explanation, became sig-
F 2
Digitized byGoogle
40
nets-instruments of sacred pledge; because, the devices, or subjects
of them, were previously venerated as signs.
. To such of the Sabmans
ofold, as did not '' look through nature up to nature•s God:' they also
became mystic and imposing raiJying points :-places of assignation,
where ·sense and imagination assembled, and sometimes commingled
incestuously; and where those monstrous chimene of superstition, were
engendered, of which some are about to appear in their true characters-
namely, as the bugbeers and dolls of infant mao.
Digitized byGoogle
ESSAY 111. TO CAPT. ABRAHAM .LOCKETT, SEC. TO THE COUNCIL
OF THE COLLEGE AT FORT WILLIAM IN BENGAL, M. R.I. A. &c.
You will not suppose, my dear Sir,-nor is any reader to suppose-
from the contents of my last, that a Babylonian, or of those
early ages of which I profess to treat, devised, or chose, the subject of his
signet, as a gentleman now chooses whether he will sea) with an Apolio,
a Diana, or a Jupiter. No. The devices appear to have been assigned
to their respective proprietors, by a college of astronomical, or rather
genethliacal,• priests ; M the colleges of in these days, according
to the rules or laws which regulate their science, assign to a gentleman
his proper. armorial bearings; which, by the way, are probably also
of Sabman origin ; for the farther we travel backward into remote ages,
the more we find the devices on shields to have consisted of stars, cres-
cents, serpents, and other sidereal symbols. On the far-famed shield of
Achilles (as every one knows,) were displayed the Sun, the
* It ia acarcely neceuary to add, that genethliology, and astrology, were at that time and in
thoae ancient countries, identified with the acience of utronomy.
Digitized by Coogle
42
full orbed Moon, Orion, and the Pleiades : and in an age still wore re-
mote, if .lEschylus may be credited, Parthenopams bore on his shield a
Sphynx; upon that of Hippomedon was engraved a Typbreus, sur-
rounded by twisted serpents; while the shield of Tydeus was impressed
" With this proud argument ; a sable
Burning with &tars, and in the midst full-orb'd
A silver* moon.--
In fact, nothing seems more natural than for those who conceived
themselves to be under the protection of certain stars or constellations,
to engrave, paint, or emboss them on their skields; since these are at
once the emblems, and instruments, of protection.
According to the- well known passage of Herodotus which I have
quoted in Letter I., every Babylonian possessed a signet: by which we
JDay suppose is meant, every person above the condition of a slave-
every one legally capable of exercising free agency. What were the de-
vices, then, that were thus assigned and employed in Babylonia? Or
rather, what is the system of principles to which those devices-speak-
ing of them collectively-are referable?
From the inspection of a more considerable number of such signets
than has perhaps been seen by any other person now living in Europe,
and from the best thoughts which 1 have been able to bestow upon the
subject, I am induced to answer, that in this astrological nation, and
wherever the Sabrean superstition prevailed-the planet, or the constella-
tion, under which each individual was born, or which at the hour of his
birthtwas culminating, or was ascending from the cusp of the horizon-
was to him, what his patton saint is to a pious catholic.
• Potter'slEschylua. "Seven Chiefs ag"inst Thebes." t I would not be uncritical here,
nor more critical than the occasion may be thought to require. In writing " under which each
individual was born, or which at the hour of his birth," &c.-1 wish the reader to bear in mind
that ancient genethliologista disputed much respecting whether the state of the heavens at the
hour of the ccmctption, or of the birth, of a native, w11 most predictive. This_ can be ofsmall im-
portance to us, and ia of the less, inasmuch as the asterisms which at the hour of conception are
on the meridian, are precisely those which must of neceuity be rising in the oriental quarter
of the heavens at the hour of birth, (that is to say, nine months afterward). Wherefore, in
t.reatinr of these matters, when 1write simply the hour of birth, or to that amount, I shall beg.
Digitized by Coogle
43
" How can we suppose (says Lucian) thaf ..Eneas was the lOft. ofVe-
nus; Minos of Jupiter; Ascalaphus of Mars; and Autolychus of Mer-
cury? All of them indeed were beloved by the gods.· Venus ·beheld one,
Jupiter another, and Mars another, at their respective nativities: for,
whichsoever presided at the time of birth, was supposed to adopt the
children, and form them after his own divine similitude in body and
mind. Thus Minos was a king, under Jupiter; ...Eoeas.was beautiful, as
born under Venus; and Autolychus a thief, from his father• Mercury."
You may recollect here the legend related by and alluded
to in my former epistle, of Theseus disputing with the second Minos con-
cerning his birth and parentage, and appealing to the signet which Minos
threw into the sea. Now, it would be inconsistent, not to say absurd, to
call the first Minos the MOD of Jupiter, and the second, who 'Was the
known grandson of the first, the son of Neptune, upon any other prin-
ciple or with any other understanding, than that which I ani here assert-
ing: that is to say, Jupiter was literally-not the father, but-the god-
father of the first Minos, from his being born under that planet ; and
since there is no planet named after Neptune, I conclude that in the as-
tronomy of Crete, (which is a very ancient astronomical country,) there
must have been an asterima so named. In my remarks on an engraved
cylinder, an outline of which has been sent to England by Mr. Rich,
will be found my reasons for supposing that the stars now constellated
as Erydanus, were originally known in different countries, by the names
of Nile, Nereus, and Ocean, or Neptune.
This Thesean legend may be thought a fable. It is so in part: hut is
founded on fact.-Still, I may be asked, since so many of the engraved
gems of ancient Greece have come down to us, where are their horosco-
pical signets ? In backward into the depths of time, I may be
expected to assist my readers with some classical stepping stones.
That horoscopical signets were used by the Greeks, and even at a later
period, by the Romans, may be easily shewn. The signet of the em-
of the ruder to understand whichever hia own utrological faith may incline him to. Enough
for me, if I can shew that each hoi'OICopical signet specifiea or indicates a atate of tbe
wbicb once exiated and may now he retraceable. * tr.analation.
Digitized byGoogle
44
peror Augustus, was the sign Capricorn, which bas always been esteemed
to be the mansion of kings, and uuder which he had the fortune to be
born. This signet is still extant, and I would have exhibited it here,
but it is nothing more than the common fish-tailed goat, as it still remains
in the modem zodiacs; and as it is sculptured in the field of the stone,
in that very large gem of Augustus and his family, of which casts are sold
at Tassie's, any person may easily see, or possess it.
A Grecian horoscopical signet it seemed more incumbent upon me to
produce. Several .of these may also be see.n in Tassie's valuable collec.
tion: but with that curious one which forms the head-piece to the present
Essay, I was favoured by the late Sir Charles Rouse Boughton, who
obtained it from an antiquary of Avignon whose name I have forgotten.
A few words of explanation of this ancient Greek signet, will (as I
presume) be no useless digression. It may excite the surprise of some
that such signets have hitherto, in a great measure eluded antiquarian
investigation ; wherefore, though it be a step out of our direct road, it
affords a prospect so interesting in itself, and so conducive to the end
and purpose of our journey, that I cannot bring myself to fancy that
such a movement will be attended with the least subsequent regret.
I should interpret that the five heads, or busts, which this engraving so
conspicuously displays, were those of our five fellow planets, personified ;
the sun and moon being expressed without in the upper
part of the ellipsis ; and notwithstanding this interpretation will be at.
tended with some difficulty, the reader may perhaps find it on the whole
most worthy of credence,-subject however to certain modifications, con-
cerning which he will of course exercise bis own judgment.
It is better I think to state these difficulties, which arise from the gems
belonging to that early period of Grecian history when the gods-or dU-
po8era, as Herodotus• says they were primarily called-of which Greece
obtained the knowledge from Egypt, from Lybia, from Phc:enicia, and
* " The Pelugiana, 11 I wu informed at Dodona, formerly ofFered all things indiscriminately
to the godt. They distinguished them by no name or surname, for they were hitherto unac-
quainted with either; but they them Gopa, which b;y ill etymology, tlUpom-1."-
Bel«'1 HerodOlfl.l : Euterpe, Iii.
Digitized byGoogle
from Babylon-began to yield to, and in the devotions of their hiero-
phants to be blended with, or superseded by, those-formed from a study
of the energies of nature and the passions of man,•-which .their early
poets engrafted on the original Sabeanstock; and which gradually led
them to deify almost every river, and mountain, echo, and even silence
itself.
There are many circumstances concurring to persuade us that the dire
conflict which bas resounded through so many pages of fine poetry and
ridiculous religion-those battles between the origiaal pouu-
sora oj'HEAVEN, and the gods of Greece, was for no hi-forked moun-
tain, and no upper region of clouds and ambrosia, but was simply-and
far more consonantly to human experience-an ancient astronomical and
sacred contest with the Sabeans, concerning the formation of the aste-
risms, and the names by which the planets and constellations should be
severally known and adored-not that I intend launching further into
this mythological ocean at present. .
I beg to resume, that it will be our better to attend to the more
questionable points of this nativity in the outset. The two heads at the
right hand extremity of the device, which I understand to be the oriental
quarter of the present horoscope, I conceive to be those of auspicious
omen to the native, Jupiter and. Venus; by Ptolemy and Manilius
termed "the two benevolent Fortunes." J question not but that this
will appear sufficiently evident from the mature majesty and beauty of
*"The primitive religion of the Greeb, (aaya Mr. R. P. Knight,) like that of all other oa-
tiona not enlightened by revelation, appears to have been elementary : and to have conaimd
in an indiatinct worship of the sun, the moon, the atars, the earth, and the waters ; or rather
of the apirita &upposed to preside over those bodies, and to direct their motion• and regulate
their modes of exiatence." ·
" At the aame time that the regular motion• of the heavenly bodies, the alated retuma of
aummer and winter, of day and night, with all the admirable order of the universe, taught
them to believe in the and agency of such superior powers; the irregular and de-
structive efFort• of nature, such a& lightning and tempeata, inundation• and earthquakea, per-
. auaded them that thne mighty beinga had pauiona and afFections aimilar to their own, and
only difFered in poueaing greater strength, power, and intelligenc:e."-lllf'IUJ ilflo tie S,..bo-
lical LtmgiUige qf Art, &c. ch. u.
Digitized byGoogle
46
the countenances respectively: but the three on the other side of the
Centaur, do not correspond to our ideas of Saturn, Mars, and·Mercury ;
for though one of them is helmeted, it is beardless; and therefore rather
a head of Pallas, than of Mars ; another is evidently Pan, rather than
Saturn; and the third is apparently a female head, and with no indica-
tion ofits being intended for that of Mercury.
.With this occidental triumvirate lies the difficulty. and the only dit:
Jiculty that presents itself to a clear understanding of the state of the
·heavens at the hour, ·and of the genethliacal and technical meaning of
this horoscopical device. I can only solve it, or rather I can only state
how it may possibly be resolvable-by supposing that the astrologer who
cast this nativity, and directed the operations of the artist who engraved
it, draWing his predictive inferences professedly from the state of the
heavenly phenomena at the time, chose to ascribe military Wisdom. to the
native, rather than mere martial propensity; for Pallas bas but recently
·been admitted into our solar system. Moral, physical, and poetical
meaning, it was their object, in these cases, to record and display; and
we know, upon other occasions, how susceptible were the deities of
Greece ofsubdivision, and ofsubstitution of one for another. It is very
common, in their most ancient hymns for example, to find them invoking
their gods as "many-named" and "multiform." In the 14th of the Orphic
hy111ns, Jove is invoked as a "multiform deity;" in the 15th, Juno, as a
"goddess whose names are numerous;" and in the 31st, Pallas is ad-
dressed as "multiform/' and as "inluJJiting tke stars."
I think the same of the other two busts as of this of Minerva : that is
to say, that they do not denote, integrally, planets; but particular
aspects of planets, when viewed with reference to the surrounding phe-
nomena, and interpreted according to the poetic system of the Greek
mythology ; for according as planets were " posited" in the zodiac, and
as they "regarded each other," (technically speaking), their meaning and
influence was held to vary. And that this is no idle reverie, as appli-
cable to the present signet, may be safely inferred from those diagram-
matic marks which are engraved in the field of the stone.
Immediately between the bust of the" two-horned god," whom I have
Digitized byGoogle
47
called Pan, but an epithet by which Apollo is addressed in the Orphic
hymn to that deity, is the diagrammatical character o which still re-
mains in use to denote quartile cupect; and a little before this bust, and
between it and the lunar dragon, of which I shall presently treat, is the
character* used to denote seztile aspect; both of which. are unequivo-
cally sculptured. There are two other of these ancient astrological cha-
racters, near the lower female busts, as may be easily seen, but ·which
are become obsolete, or at least are unknown to me; nor can 1·find any
thing bearing sufficient resemblance to them, in the vatious authorities
that I have consulted, both MS. and in print,-
· ·to support me in ventur-
ing an opinion as to their meaning.
The central figure of a Centauric archer is undoubtedly that of·the con-
stellation Sagittarhts, very conspicuously displayed. Beneath his body
and between his fore and hind legs, is the ancient symbol of equipoise,
Libra, or the Balance, just as we find it sculptured in repeated instances
on the gems of Assyria, and of which I shall have future occasion to
treat more especially. 1 interpret that one of these is meant to denote
the asterism, whose stars were on and were near the meridian ; and the
other, those which at the hour of nativity were rising, or those which
were simultaneously setting; for, taking for granted that this is a Grecian
horoscope, and elevating the arctic pole of the sphere to any latitude
betw:een those ofCrete and Macedonia-I here speak but in a general way,
but-say to lat. 3lt, which is nearly that of Athens,-we find the chief
stars of Libra setting, as those of Sagittarius successively culminate, (or
attain their meridian altitude); and of course as those of Libra come to
the meridian, Sagittarius is rising. The two large and bright stars which
have been named after the Dioscuri, set in this latitude nearly at the
same moment; and this moment is a remarkable one, it being precisely
as the meridian passes between the stars .A..lplla and Beta in Libra: now
it is more than possible that the two beardless busts on the left may be
intended for those of Castor and Pollux (supposing them to have been
represented as adolescent Twins); in which case this horoscope is as com-
plete as it is po1:1sible for such a document to be. I regret to write under
uncertainty on this point; but it seems probable that any person who
G
Digitized byGoogle
48
may understand the· mysterious characters before adverted to, Will 'be
able to inform us which of theRe is meant to be here exhibited as the
existing state of the celestial phenomena at the hour of birth.
The ascendant stars have ever been esteemed ofpowerful efficacy, from
the Chaldean ages to the present. If Sagittarius is now rising, as Jupiter
is also in the oriental quarter of the heavens, and as Sagittarius is the
proper domicile of this planet, the aspect would be prophetic of great
future prosperity to the native, Jupiter would be lord of the ascendant,
and would be posited in his mansion ofpower;-but considerations ofthis
nature we are not called upon to follow up.
In the upper part of the gem is represented, (as I have already inti-
mated), that astrological symbol of the monthly path of the Moon, which
from time immemorial has been termed the Lunar Dragon. The number
of rays which emanate from the )lead of this dragon-serpent is fourteen,
that of the number of days of the moon's increase. At a short distance
before this radiant head is a small orb, placed there, as I suspect, from
finding the Moon where it is, by way of denoting, that though the nativity
was nocturnal, the Suo was not far beneath the horizon at the time, nor
far from Jupiter. The figure and place of the Moon herself agrees to this
account, she being still a crescent, and removed but a short distance
from the place of her ascending node-an important point in the casting.
of a nativity, which has always been technically known by the appel-
lation of the Dragon's Head.
Agaio,-should this matter be thought worthy of further antiquarian
pursuit, and. as far as respects the bust of the warrior goddess :-In the
hymn of Callimachus "to. the bath of Pallas," he invokes that goddess as
synonymous with-that is to say, as a personification of-the earliest saf-
fron coloured light of morning, which Dr..Dodd confirms in a note to his
translation. Thit:J interpretation accords precisely with the place which I
here assigned to the Suo. Her Greek name, A.thene, says the same
learned and unfortunate annotator, is from the Hebrew. (Ath) and
".:lM (Tkene), a serpent or dragon, being a known emblem of light in its
motion.
,. Hymns of Callimacbus,.&c. translated from lhe Greek, p.l46.
Digitized byGoogle
49
And these poetical constructions are in perfect conformity with his-
torical fact; for from the testimony of Herodotus, it appears that the
Greek poets were in his time, the a11trologers also. In chap. lxxxii. of
hi8 highly valued Euterpe, he says of the Egyptians that, " from observ-
ing the days of nativity, they venture to predict the particular circum-
stances of a man's life and death : this is done by the poets of Greece."•
Now, between the Chaldean horoscopes which I shall exhibit, and
this more florid horoscope of Greece, there exists much such a differ-
ence as we flhould calculate upon finding, between a nativity cast by a
mere astrologer, and one cast by an astrological poet. Herodotus
reckons that Hesiod lived not more than four centuries befo1·et himself;
and from the "Works and Days'' of that poet, may be safely inferred
that he could tell fortnnes.
The introduction of this Grecian horoscope is somewhat episodical,
and quite an after-thought of mine. Should it be found to lead the
reader's mind more easily and agreeably onward, it will not, I trust, be
thought useless or premature. Return we now into that broad road to-
ward Babylon, from which we diverged at the point where Lucian affirms
that the ancient heroes were no otherwise of celestial descent, than as
the native of this Grecian horoscope may have been termed a son of
Jupiter, or fabled to have been favoured or patronised by Pallas. Many
of the ancient classic legends, whioh the poets of antiquity have worked
llp into metamorphoses, and other the most extravagant fables, may thus
be more easily and intelligibly understood, and without outraging our
ideas either of mortal or immortal natures. What was true in the
·Lucianic sense, of Minos and lEneas, of Phrygia and of Crete, may be
yet more easily believed of the ancient Sabman nations of Chaldea,
Canaan, and the orientallEthiopia: the Phrygians, indeed, are known
to have been a Sabman people, and Troy was in alliance with Babylon.
And here we may again look toward that more venerable testimony, to
which we have before adverted with advantage : we may look toward the
poem of Job, a monument which can scarcely be thought of without an
apostrophe of admiration! We may look, with becoming reverence to-
* Beloe'a translatien. t: Ditto, Euterpe, Cb. liii.
G 2
Digitized byGoogle
ward that hoary and solitary pyramid standing amid the desart wastes
of far distant time, and pointing to the skies !-The author of Job ap-
pears to have partaken of the early prevalence of the astrological or
Sabman system of belief, so far as that the stars were unto him for signs,
but not for causes; and therefore, without reproach to his own piety,
and without blemishing tht> sublime integrity of the deism of his hero ;
for we therein find Elihu appealing to the celestial phenomena as guides
and criteria of human rectitude. "Look to tile keaveu! (be says) Behold
and contemplate tile ikiu ! High are they over thee! If thou go astray,
what doest thou against Jehovah? If thou be righteous, what canst thou
profit him? To man like thyself is thine iniquity ;"• but the heavens are
thy guide.t
And as from the lips of the samt> Elihu, we read of the (Memi-
tim) and the (Melizim) lratercesaors, with an ascending
hierarchy of celt>Stial natures,t· which would appear to have received
their se'feral denominations from the astrological belief of their minis-
tering bt>tween man and the supreme and eternal intelligence.
It may, however, have constituted part of the poet's design, to exhibit
the character of Elihu with local referencE.> to his own country; for we
are informed that he was a Buzite; which country, according to Jeremiah,
was in the neighbourhood of Dedan,§ that is, in the south of the Arabian
peninsula, or oriental country which, as I propose to shew in
a future essay, has strong claims to be regarded wt the birth-place of the
science of astronomy.
It seems not unlikely that the astrological custom of the Chasdim, to
which I shall presently advert, together with that other custom of theirs,
(which may rather be termed astronomical), of watching the signs of the
approaching seasons, by observing the rising stars in the crepusculum of
morning, are both alluded to in the beginning of the third chapter of
Job-
"At length Job opened hia mouth and cuned hia da,''-
• Good'• vel'lion, :uxv. 5 to 8. t It will be obaened, that I have added tbeae aix latter
worda paraphrasticallf, and merelf u completing and enforcing the obvious meaning of the
author. t Good'a version, xxxiii. ii, 23. § "Dedan, and Tema, and Buz, and
all that are in the utmost comel'l; and all the kings of Arabia," &.c.-Jerem. :uv. iS.
Digitized byGoogle
61
1 adopt here the excellent version of Dr. Good, and am decidedly of
bis opinion, that the natal day of the patriarch is here meant. We see
also by the very commencement ofthe poem,-where the sons of Job are
described as giving family entertainments each on his birth-day,-the high
regard in which natimtiea were anciently held, and from which modern
birth-day observaoceif is probably deduced-
" His sons were wont to hold a banquet houee,
Every one on his birth-day ;
(When they sent and invited their three sisten1
To eat and to drink together with them.)
And it came to pau,.asthe day• of •ucb banquets returned;.
That Job sent for, and asnctified them ;
And made ready in the morning, and offered burnt offering:s,.
According·to the of them all
But I was about to req:uest attention to the birth-day of the patriarcla
himself; as aJluded to in the beginning of the third chapter-
" Job opened his mouth, and cursed his natal day :
And Job exclaimed, and •aid,
Perieh the day in which I wu born!
And the night which ehouted, 'a man child ia brought forth !'
Oh! be that day darkneal
Let not Jehovah unclose it on high!·
* * * * * * • •
That niglat /-Let extinction seize it !
Let it not rejoice amidet the daye of the yeu :-
Ob! tAat night-
let the IOrCtrtT'I qftile dG_y curse it!
The erpmut among tbem,-that can conjure up 1
Let the 1tar1 qf iu1111iliglat be extinguiahed !
Let it not see the gl4ncmg• of the dsum t•·
I more than suspect that what bas been translated " the sercerers of
the day," about whom doubt is expressed by Dr. Good u.d by other
commentators, were the astronomical priests, those of whom·Julius Bate
writes, that they did ckarm and cmajoin;t and the prophet Isaiah, that
* Good'• Job, i. 4-. t ijebraia Crilica, p•.1St. To CDtfioin, wu lo watch for, com-
pute, and anticipate, the celeaial
Digitized byGoogle
they did pHp and mwtUJ"; and concerning whom the latter ironically
calls upon Babylon, "Stand up now with thine enchantments, and with
the multitude of thy sorceries. Let now the astrologers, the star-gazers,
the monthly prognosticators, stand up, and save thee from the things that
shall come upon thee."• Those, in short, of this sacerdotal order, who at
the time were on their stated nocturnal, or those who were on diurnal,
duty; for the Hebrew word O'-rrutM (Hhaotidim), which the author of
Job uses in this place, means, the prompt, or ezpert onu ; and I think,
that the Leviathan here mentioned, was a COft8tellated Leviathan-either
the Ketua of the sphere, or perhaps the Hydra of the southern asterisms,
-which the expertest among the expert ones might pretend to conjure
up at the time when they knew that its stars would annually ascend
from beneath the horizon in the twilight of morning.
We should not forget that it is Job-who was of the true faith, and not
Elihu the Sabman-that uses this expression, the expert Oftts; which is a
mere acknowledgment of their dexterity, and none at all of their divine
or miraculous power. We may well believe that the star worshippers
themselves used a more reverend term ; and it is remarkable here, \Vith
regard to Leviatkan, that Theodotion has translated the word which is so
rendered by Dr.Good, "the DragOft;" but the Septuaginthave translated
it " the Great Whale," which is literally the Grecian Ketus. It scarcely
needs be added, that thP expressions, "the stars of its twilight,ot and
" the glancings of the dawn," with which the extract closes, are not only
emphatically astronomical, but allude to the very time of the morning
when the Chasdim watched with the greatest anxiety, and noted with the
utmost exactness, the signs of the coming seasons.
In presenting you here with an astronomical foretaste, I am obliged to
desire credit for what I shall have much opportunity to render manifest,
namely, that the hea'fens were constellated at the early period when the
poem of Job was written; and that many of its asterisms-surprising
though should seem-were in name and effect, the same which we
behold on the sphere at present.
If we now transport ourselves in idea to the age and country of Job,
• Iaaiah, Yiii. 19, and xlyji. li.
Digitized byGoogle
63
"'hich, by means of a pair of globes, or a map and an astronomer's globe,
we may easily do; if we estimate the latitude of the seene of the poem,
(in Arabia or Jdumea), at about 20• north; if we elevate the arctic pole of
the celestial globe accordingly; and if we assume that the supposed con-
juriag up of Leviathan must have taken place at one of the two seasons
to which 1 have alluded above, (namely,. when Hydra, or when Ketus,
rose with the Sun), we soon discover that, in the given latitude, the
cluster of stars in the head of Hydra rose heliacally with the earliest of
Leo, which is that of the fourth magnitude in the Lion's nose; and that
the Cor Hydra rose with Regulw; but if, as I should rather divine, the
constellation of Ketus, or the Great Whale, be meant by the poet, the
earliest of its stars rises heliacally in the assigned latitude of Job, with
the star Delta in the ligament, or connecting band, between the }'ishes ;
which, presuwiug (what I shall one day hope to prove to your satisfac-
tion), the vernal equinox to have passed across the Hyades in the age of
Job, must have been about two months previous to the Sun's arrival at the
equinoctial colore, one month after hitJ transit from the brumal solstice,
and nearly in the depth of the ldumean winter,-aseason which accords
far better than the former, with the execrations uttered upon the distress-
ing occasion by the suffering patriarch.
I anticipate with the greater confidence, the conviction of my readers on
these points, since it has happened that a particular accountofthe Sabmau
ceremony or local custom of the Chasdim,• upon these natal and astrono-
mical occasions, has come down to us with their genethliological doc-
trines, and that these are in perfect conformity with the devices on the
cylinders. At least, I see no reason to distrust on this subject a Roman
physician and sceptical philosopher,t who lived at a time when the Chal-
• We are under 10 much uncertainty with regard to the pronunciation of the ancient Chaldee
and Hebrew, that after all, the Hhaotidim, or Chaotidim of Job and Arabia, may be merely a
dialectic difFerence from the" Clarudim" of other parte of holy writ, which word i• by Sir Wm.
Drummond, probably with more accuracy, written Clatuidi1rt. I do not aee bow this ie au.
ceptible of poaitive proof, as the Cbaldee ia now a dead language ; but to beline it, calla for
no over-weening credulity. The reader will determine for bimaelf between tbia meaning and
Job'• acknowledgment ortheir expert conjuration. t Sextus Empiricua.-&c &aalei•
Chaldaic Plrikmph9, p. 1017.
Digitized byGoogle
dean and .Egyptian modes of casting nativities were studied, compared,
and criticised, and who says, "The way in which the Chaldeans (or
Chasdim), from tke very !Jeginning, observed the horoscope of any nati-
vity, was thus: A Chaldean sat in the night-time in his lofty observa-
tory, contemplating the stars; another sat by the woman in travail until
such time as she was delivered. As soon as she was delivered, he sig-
nified that event to him who was astronomically engaged, which, as soon
as he had heard, he observed the sign then rising for the horoscope; but
in the day, he attended to the ascendants and the Sun's motions." This
is a valuable passage, and throws important light on our Chaldean monu-
ments.
To .the destinies, messengers, and intercessors of Elihu, the prophet
Daniel has added the Babylonian r""l' (Ourin,) or celestial Watchers: a
term of later date probably than Job, but earlier than Daniel, since it is
precisely significant of the same meaning with the watchers of Hesiod,
whom he terms aerial spirits, and immortal spies, and enumerates at
thirty-thousand. Our own Milton, vying with Hesiod, and with the
Holy Scriptures, has encreased their number and the sanctity of their
office, by writing that
" Million. of spiritual creatures walk the earth
Unseen, both when we wake and when we sleep:
--Oft in banda
While they ltetp watch ; or nightly walking round,
With heav'nly touch of inttrumental sounds
In full harmonic number join'd ; their aonga
Divide the night, and lift our tboughtl to heaven.''
From this primitive Sabman source, obRcure, like that of the Nile, by.
its remoteness-the copious fountain still flowing on through prolonged
channels of human credulity-astrology has derived its leading doc-
trines; Angels being the supposed souls or spirits of the celestial orbs;
and its faith in the heavenly phenomena being derived from that ancient,
but firm, persuasion founded on the Chaldean,-probably antediluvian-
dogma, that the stars were for signs. Hence it is, that modern practi-
tioners of the science, in imitation of those of old, term their cJients the
Digitized byGoogle
55
natives of their respective horoscopical intimating by that word, the
places of their several births 1n heaven, as it now implies in common par-
lance, their terrestrial birth-places: and hence the astrological priest who
registered the birth of a Babylonian child, also cast his nativity ; and in
so doing, assigned to him the subject ofnis future signet.
before the invention of writing, this signet so assigned, was
the ordained aud sole record of the nativity; and hence probably, we find
those signets which have risen again from their Babylonian interment;
to consist, either simply of such zodiacal asterisms as were the mansions
of BaAl or of Asteroth at the respective hours,-if hours were then,--of
the births of their original possessors ; or else of more elaborate composi-
tions, consisting in some instances of the rising asterisms ; in others of
the setting signs also; and again in others, comprehending and addmg to
these (if I have rightly construed them) the several stations, hieroglyphi-
cally expressed, of those planets which were at the respective times,
above the horizon :-In .short,. all .the leading.features, iu all their mystic
varieties, of those ancient Chaldean horoscopes to which we shall soon
revert; and from which I conceive our Grecian signet to have been de-
duced along with the rudiments of Astronomy.
Of these three kinds, the first belonged to the poorer classes : the two
latter, which are of the cylindrical form, and which have so long been
treated with vague or perplexed regard by the learned in letters, be-
.longed to persons of higher rank and condition, who may be supposed to
have been able to afford more elaborate engravings; or, in other words,
whose lucky stars at once entitled them to more display, and empowered
them to indulge in it.
We win here pause for the present, principally for the sake of pursu-
ing our theme with something like orderly progression, and clear ideas.
Digitized byGoogle
ESSAY IV. TO CAPT. ABRAHAM LOCKETT, SEC. TO THE COUNCIL
OF THE COLLEGE A.T FORT WILLIAM IN BENGAL, M. R.I. A. &c.
I CONTINUE to address you, my Dear Sir, on the general topic of the
antiquities of the Star worshippers, trusting that tbe road on which I ,
labour, will gradually become sufficiently firm, clear, and even, for us to·
proceed to particulars without difficulty; and I begin a fresh Essay
chiefly with the view ofintroducing, without derangementof my plan, an
engraved representation of an impression rolled off, as well as I can now
manage to roll it, from your very ancient and mutilated black cylinder-
which will become the subject of those obsenations with which I pur-
pose to close the present epistle.
But before I proceed further, I am induced, by the talismanic
hypothesis asserted from a very respectable quarter which I was not at
first aware of,-to say a few more words concerning that hypothesis; and
also to make mention ofa distinct species ofsignets ofwhich some will sub-
sequently be exhibited.-And first, with regard to the supposed Talismans.
We know that amongst the modern Persians, and even among some
Europeans, it is fancied that these cylindrical gems are, and were from
Digitized by Coogle
the first designed to be, no other than Amulets (or Talismans)-Charms,
to avert evil, or to educe good. Yet though this opinion prevails, to a
certain extent, and notwithstanding it has long prevailed, in the East, I
believe that nothing desening the name of proof has transpired,·to shew
that they were originally engraven and worn with this view ; and. ·even
no firm ground of argument, that I am with, ft,r conjectures
founded on superstitions of posterior· date· to the cylinders, can ·scarcely
be esteemed argument at all. ·Neither are such talismans· mentioned,
that I know of, either in the Jewish scriptures, or by any of the more
ancient historians.• I strongly suspect this idea arisen· in the
same way with the half-witted adoption of the Crescent by the followers
of Mahomet. The Turks had no crescent waving on their banners, be-
fore they took Byzantium, of which ·it had become the badge or ensign.
Being the symbol of the Phamician Asteroth, (or Astarte,) and beiog sub-
sequently venerated as the preserver of their metropolis, it glittered on
the coinage of the Byzantines, and shone in their temples; and when the
Mahommedan conquerors succeeded in gaining possession of the city-ob-
serving the crescent moon to ·be displayed in so many places, and in-
stigated by the selfish craft that seems to be inseparable from supersti-
tious credulity, they adopted the symbol t in the idle hope of deprecating
lurking magic. It appears to me that, the Rame ignorant desire to pro-
pitiate unknown power, has blended itself with those Arabian tales of
talismanic rings, which since the dominion of the Kaliphs, have been
fondly listened to in the East; and has occasioned these engraved and
perforated cylinders to be regarded and wom; in Persia and Arabia, as
posRessing some amuletic, or charming, virtue, of which no rational ac-
count is offered or expected. If extemal and visible things can be
brought to flash on imagination, so as to excite inward or mental emo-
tion, it is enoug for the ends of superstition ; which feels or regards
only the emotion, or leaves the rest to be moulded by ita officiating
• The fabled ring of Gyges, which some might suppose to be an exception, muat be an in-
Yention of aubsequent date; since Herodotua, in relating the romantic alory, makea no mention
of the talieman. t Hiatoria Byzantina Conetantinopolis Cbriatiana, lib. i. p. 7.
H
Digitized byGoogle
priests. The reason that would ascertain its precise nature, would dis.
pel the mysticism in which it enshrines itself.
But I observe, that, on the European continent, these antique cylinders
have been called amulets, by Count Caylus, by D'Oiivier, and by Millin;
if not by Grotefend and LichtenHtein ; as well as here by Raspe and
other antiquaries of respectability. I suppose the comtideration that has
struck Mr. Hodgson and myself, did not occur to them-namely, that the
execution of the engraving upon them, being in intaglio, shews they were
intended for the purpose of sealing: which indeed is yet more plainly
shewn by the circumstance of the groups of nails, or arrow-head charac-
ters, that appear on some of them, being engraved the reverse way from
that in which the same characters appear on the bricks of Babylon, and on
those other Assyrian monuments which were unquestionably intended to
be themselves read, and not read in their impressions. To the subter-
fuge, that the impressions from these gems were amulets, the above gentle-
men, or any other, wiJl be welcome, ifthey shaH think it worthy of adop-
tion, after what I shall have to submit respecting them as horoscopical
pledges of individual citizens, and seals of the priesthood.
Indeed when we come to recoJlect that astral influence, and amnletic
power, were both venerated as being mystical and occult, in those ages
when the human mind bent under the imposing witcheries of those who
pretended to employ them, and are now regarded as alike delusive, there
remains little reason to quarrel about a term. All that I mean to deny is,
that these engravings were by their authors ever supposed to possess any
such latent energy of causation-any such talismanic virtue, or power,
-as the Genii of the spiritual world were supposed to be compelled to
honour and obey, when their firm was drawn upon; at the pleasure of the
bolder. I further deny that they originated with those ages of Arabian
romance, of which talismans and genii constitute almost the whole of
the miraculous machinery; and I affirm that they belong to a far remote
period of time. However, while I contend for the true construction of
solid and lasting existences, and disclaim to quarrel about a term of
transitive meaniug-1 am ready with such concession as may be ex-
I
Digitized byGoogle
tracted from the next paragraph, if it will conciliate that·" litde differ-
ence" which your excellent friend Sir Wm. Ouseley, is candidly pleased
to state, may perhaps between him and myself.
Among the definitions or descriptions of talismans that have fallen in
the way of my reading, is that to which I have made slight allusion in
my first essay, and which rests on the authority of Philo and Dr. Hyde.
It states that, the father of the patriarch Abraham was a maker of "T•
limuuu, or little imagesframed in some planetary hour." In point offact,
if we reflect on the words which I have printed in italics, here is little or
no difference between Philo, Mr. Costard, and myself. As little images
cannot be sculptured or engraven in any planetary kour, we may be tole-
rably certain that the meaning here is that, said images have some kind of
mystic references to planetary hours: and, toframe an horoscope, is stilJ
technical. I am therefore only somewhat more particular on the leading
points, than the above authorities. I discourse of little gmven images;
I tell in what planetary hours they were framed ; and I maintain that
they originated with that most ancient of superstitions which was preva-
lent in the time of Terah, and whose post-diluvian professors peopled the
banks of the Tigris and Euphrates, extending themselves southward to
the shores of the };rythrean ocean, and, as they themselves knew or fan-
cied, deducing their faith with their ancestry, from Saba, from Enoch,
and from Seth.•
While I writefancied, I readily allow that none else could have known
so much of these very ancient matters, as the post-diluvian Cushites, the
immediate descendants of Noah and the men of centuries. And who
shall uow suspect those of dissembling or romance, to whom we are
indebted for all that we know or believe of the ante-diluvian world?-
But, let us not lose in sublime speculation, the thread of our disquisition.
I must still contend, for another moment, against the use of the word
talismans, as a correct expression in the present case.
No poet is more accurate than Pope; or more crititally nice in his
choice of terms: and Pope, while he makes a distinction between taliS..
• Wilkin•'• Arabian and Penian Dictionary, vol. i.
112
Digitized byGoogle
00
mans and signets, my meaning,-better perhaps than I bave
ezpre11ed it-in the following couplet:
" Of taliamana mad aigila knew the power ;
And careful watch'd the planetary hour."
Dismissing then the talismanic, or hypothesis; which hithert<t,
by throwing its fanciful Arabian spells over the learning, has only de-
luded the penetrati9n, of Europe,-my belief is, that the Babylonian, or
pious Sabman of old-:-in affixing an impression from his signet to any
legal deed, or,.in the higher periods of antiquity, ere the light of letters
had dawned upon mankind,-by employing it as a .sign, whereby the
fixed attention of present .witnesses as well as his own, might be im-
pressed with, and retain with more precision, the terms of any oral
covenant-pledged himself by his tutelary constellations or planets; and
by his faith in his future terrestrial destiny, to the fulfilment of his con-
tract or promise; just as the. Anglo-Saxon Christian, to whom we before
adverted, signed the symbol of l•is religiouH faith and future hope, as
the pledge of his present sincerity. The only difference in principle was,
that the Saxon pledged his hope of eternity, while we have no reason to
know that the Sabman bad attained to the knowledge of the immortality
of the soul.
The signets of the lower classes, as well aM those of their superiors, are
engraved on hard and imperishable.substances; or stones which would
been so pronounced, had not some of them evidently suffered either
from Jong burial in the earth, or from the mere lapse ofso many centuries.
These stones-(chiefly agates, carnelians, and garnets) are of
beauty, and also, generally speaking, of inferior depth and
to the best of the cylinders•. They are plano-convex ; some of hemi-
spherical, and others of hemispheroidal, proportions, having the upper
part of each perforated for the sake of portability, and on the flat laces
or bases of which, the several zodiacal signs are engraven. Of this
inferior species of signets, I propose to treat further, and shall also exhi-
bit some representations, in a subsequent page of this work.
The cylindrical signets however, did not all belong to individuals;
Digitized byGoogle
61
though they all belonged to the same star-worshipping system of super•
stitiou. The historian whom I have cited above, in proof that every
Assyrian possessed a signet, alludes to another distinct species, of
which some will fall under our critical consideration.
From what Herodotus has. left. us the Assyrian rites and
ceremonies of religious worship, it does not appear that be was present
at any of their sacrifices, as be .was at those of Egypt. Probably his
longer residence and superior leisure in the latter country, might afford
him opportunities which he might not enjoy at Babylon-or it may have
happened that the details which he may have written of those matters,
have not been transmitted. He undoubtedly promises more respecting
Babylon and Assyria, than has reached to modern times; and in that
promise mentions the Babylonian temples.•
However this may have been, we may be pretty certain that wherever
the Sabman rite of sacrifice prevailed-and in the early ages it prevailed
almost every where-the general outlines, and even many of .the minor
details, of its attendant ceremonies, were the same ; or so nearly the
same, that the mode of conducting the sacrifices o( Assyria and Canaan,
may be very well judged of by what this venerable historian has left on
record concerning those of .Egypt; where also a few cylindrical sipets
have been found; but where the national-or at least the more prevalent
-form of the signet, appears to have been quite of another kind.
· In enumerating the religious ce.remonies of that extraordinary people,
Herodotus states that, " the Egyptians sacrifice bulls witAowt !Jlemi4A ;'!
and that, "the priests carefully examine whether the victims be perfect,
before they are led to the altar :-Iffound to be free from those imper-
fections which are specified their sacred books, the priest the
byblus round the ofthe bull; he then applies a preparation ofeartA,
which receives the .impression of his signet, and the animal is thus led
away to slaughter: and this seal (adds the historian) is of so. grt'Bt im-
portance that, to sacrifice a beast which has it uot, is deemed a capital
offence."t
To compel Plutarch to support the testimony of Herodotus, will pro-
• See Clio, clxxxil·. and again in Cltcii. t Beloe's Herodotus, Euterpe, uxviii.
Digitized byGoogle
62
bably be regarded but as a penance, and an atonement, to the
offended majesty of the patriarch of profane history.-Tbe learned bio-
grapher confirms the reputed importance of this sacred sealing, by stat-
ing that the Egyptian priests who performed the ceremony, were an
express order, and were termed Spkragistce.• And the same kind of col-
lateral light which is thus thrown from Plutarch on Herodotus, streams
also on holy writ from the usage of .Egypt; for we find the precept which
regards the immaculate purity of the victim, and indeed the very expres.
sion ("without blemish'')t-which Mr. Beloe has used in translating He-
rodotus,-frequently repeated in the laws of Moses. The hand of the
officiating priest imposed on the head of the victimt (as ordained by this
great legislator) being only another outward sign of sacred meaning-
afforded a ready RnhRtitui:P for the use of the signet, and an easy mean
of accomplishing its abolition among the Hebrews, with the least pos-
sible violence to the prejudices which long established usage never fails
to inspire.
But why was the impression of the at the seasons of sacrifice,
regarded as of so great importance? and why did the priest previously
examine the victim with so much of solemn scrupulosity ?-Doubtless
because a sacrifice to a deity, should be immaculate: what is impure,
being obviously unfit for the gods; and because (as iH before stated) the
seal was the visible mystic mark or sign of something which could not
itself be an object of, or subject to, corporeal sense.-And what was this
something supposed to be ?-Certainly it must have been either consecr4-
ti0fl, which is an object of mental appreciation, faith, or belief:-Or, it
was the presumed implication of acceptance by the deity to whom the
sacrifice.was offered. It was in short a species of sacrament; and like
that ordained by Jesus Christ, it required and pre-supposed the purity of
the offering.-It will probably here be recollected, that in the Catholic
church, the holy wafer, which is the outward and visible sign of this ·
divine ordinance, is still impressed by the signet of the priesthood.
• "Tb01e among the prieats that were termed Sphragiatre, or tbe •ealer1, were wont to seal the
beuts that were to be offered."-Traraslali011 of Isis and Oairu in Plutarc/1'1 Mora/a, vol. iv.
p. 89. t For these facts, aee, among other placea in the Pentateuch, tbe 3d and 4tb
chapter& of Leviticus.
Digitized byGoogle
63
It may be worth the reader's notice in this place, that with respect to
the substance which received the impressions from the signets of the
Herodotus agrees with the passages I have quoted from Job;
with the Shah-nameh of Ferdosi, which mentions clay as the sealing sub..
stance of Persia; and with every authentic account that I have met with
of the material anciently used in the East for this purposE'. It is indeed
more than possible that sacred sealing may have been the origin, or have
helped to suggest the custom, of sealing in the case of civil contracts or
covenants: for in the institution of new usages, some connecting adver-
tence is necessarily made to those which are already established, and it
;eems natural, that after the invention of writing, the priestly scribes-
who were then the legal scribes also-would percE'ive and enforce the
propriety of accompanying transfers of earthly property, with a ceremony
bearing some resemblance to that which was already in use on these
occasions of heavenly transfer.
A little reflection will be sufficient to satisfy the critical reader that he
must not indulge any feeling of disappointment,-ifany he should at first
experience-on finding our more ancient Sabman personifications of the
planets-or souls, spirits, or angels, of the planets, as they are variously
termed by Gaffarel and other writers-inferior to the refined forms which,
several centuries afterward, graced the gems and the coinage of Greece
and Rome. The bead-piece to the present essay, for example, must not
be expected to rival its immediate predecessor. The rudeness ofancient
Babylonian art, must rather be received in circumstantial proof of the
authenticity of its productions. Nor, finally, must the reader expect that
the primitive asterisms of the celE'stial sphere of Chaldea-if any should
happily emerge to modern notice-will much resemble those which are
at present in astronomical use.-He must rather prepare himself to per-
ceive, that, in point of rude simplicity, they will be as remote from the
constellations which are I!!Culptured on the antique sphere of the .Farne-
sian palace, as those are from the asterisms which are delineated on the
best celestial globes of the present day. If such be the tone of his
general expectation, I can meet him with confidence; and can even anti-
cipate some in which he will be affected with very agreeable
surprises.
Digitized byGoogle
64
Returning to the course of our reflections on your largest cylinder :
from the comparatively large dimensions of that gem, and also of those in
the British Museum that are designed and engraved in a similar style and
on a similar substance (and of which I purpose to treat at a future day);
from their exhibiting worn or decomposed surfaces-in some places al-
most to obliteration ; from their being alike in these respects ; and alike
partaking of the rude clumsiness which is incident to all early mecha-
nical contrivance-it seems fair to infer that they are all of very remote
antiquity: some of them perhaps several centuries older than the most
ancient of those which bear the· remarkable inscriptions in the arrow-
head, or Assyrian, character. •
The substance of these cylinders has been thought to be black basalt.
1 believe it is so termed by Raspe: But from better mineralogical·infor-
mation, [ am led to think it is the stone which afterward becomes carne-
lian, in the state in which it is dug from the mine, and before its native
colour has been changed by the action of fire: it has however also been
termed black jasper, by very good judges.
When you reflect, my dear Sir-and when my other readers are in-
formed-that this largest black cylinder of your's, as well as both those
which once belonged to Charles Townley, Esq. and now repose in the
British Museum, are considerably larger than those which bear inscrip-
tions; being nearly twice as much in circumference as your largest chalce-
dony, and more than three times as much as that very ancient and curious
jasper which you presented to Sir Wm. Ouseley, and which 1 have copied
as the ornament of my title-page-you will perhaps be of opinion that
they are of a date anterior to the invention of the Assyrian alphabet, or
syllabery, (whichsoever it may be) since it is not reasonable to snppose
that their authors would have crowded two, three, or four, columns of
inscription, where there was less room for it; and have omitted verbal
inscription altogether, where there was more, and where it was more im-
periously required by the recondite character of the device-had they
possessed an art of writing.
· Not only the uncouth style in which these works are designed, but
the peculiarly rude mode in which they are executed, also attests their
extreme antiquity: for neither the operation of the lathe and wheel, _
nor
Digitized byGoogle
that of the drill-bore (the terebra and rota of Pliny) are here traceable.
The manual .part of the engraver's work, as far as can now be seen, ap-
pears to have been performed by mere dint of friction-perhaps with
fractured and cut diamonds, adamantine spar, or other exceedingly hard
substance, with small aid of mechanism in its mode of application. Even
the longitudinal perforation of tkis stone agrees to the above account; for
it is not straight, and is but ioartificially performed. If this gem has ever
been mounted with metal, according to the general hypothesis of my letter
to Sir Joseph Banks, that metal, can only have been introduced at either
end, penetrating perhaps half or two thirds of an inch, without passing
tkrougn the signet.-But, on further reflection, I rather think that the
more ancient mode of portability, was attachment by means ofthongs or
other strings, to the walking staves of their respective possessors.
I think so, not only from careful inspection of the cylinders, and from
reflecting on the great difference in dimensions, weight, and apparent age,
between the largest and the smallest; but also from recollecting that both
Herodotus and the writer of Genesis, speak of the signets and walking-
staves, or sceptres, conjunctivel!J. In Clio, cxcv. Herodotus .writes as
mentioned in my first essay, that every Babylonian posseRses a signet
and walking stciff, or sceptre; and I observe that Dr. Geddes has ren-
dered Genesis, xxxviii. 18, &c. "What pledge shall! give thee? Tk!J
signet, said she, wit/• thy riband and tke stqff that is in thine hand :" and
again in verse 26, he makes Tamar say, " Disoem I pray thee to whom
belong this signet, riband, and stcdf." The mention of the riband-which
I could almost venture, in controvertence to my authorities, to call a
to be introt! need with no other view than as the connect-
ing ligament between the signet and staff: Why else should it have been
mentioned ?-.Indeed if the signets with which patriarchal shepherds tra-
velled on foot in the land of Canaan, were three inches in circumference
and two in length, like that which is here unc.Jer notice, I don't know a
• Tbia word, (Pat,.il) in the original, should be enshrined by the scholars of the
Bryant school, among the glorious uncertainties of ancient literature. It is rendered ribmul, by
Geddea; a cord, or hDilted ttring, or a tape, by Gussetiua ; cloak, or " tire qf thine ".:ad," in the
translation• of King James'a time; and by Bellamy; and in the common vel'liion-bracelell!
I
Digitized byGoogle
66
less inconvenient way of carrying them abont, than by attaching them
to staves or sceptres, in the manner in which we see in old pictures,
small cruses suspended to the walking-staves of pilgrims.
The further and the mor.e accurately we carry our retrospections into
the motives and ofthis hasty and imprudent transaction, the more
does· the local custom, and the meaning of the passage with regard to the
mode of portability of the more ancient Sabman signets, disclose itself;
and the less susceptible does it appear of any other. No woman under
such circumstances as Tamar, far less one allied to the patriarchal race,
would have required a walking staff, much less a pair of " bracelets,"
in addition to an article so valuable as an engraved gem-as a pledge for
a kid; and no foot-traveller on a journey, would have parted with his
staff, had that and the signet been already separate, or easily separable;
but would rather ·have replied, No,-1 want my staff to protect and assist
me on my journey, and the signet alone is of far more value than akid:
-In short, it is almost impossible to conceive that the trivial riband and
staff would have been mentioned at all, had they not been connected with
the signet. The way-faring genial impulses of Judah, appear to have been
pretty much like those of other men, with the generality of whom upon
such occasions, the most prompt preliminaries find a ready preference.
" Thought would destroy their Paradise."
The observations of Bishop Newton on the sceptre of Judah, may
here be referred to with some advantage. In the Hebrew language (as
in ·the Greek of Herodotus) the same word CO.:lfV (Skebet) signified both
sceptre and staff, "particularly (says the Bishop) the rod or staff which
belonged to each tribe as an ensign of their authority.''• The magiste-
* Dissertations on the Prophecies, vol. i. p. 52, Svo. edit. Parkhurst's explanation of the
word CO.:lfV is virtually the same. See Heb. LexicQn, 6th edit. p. 718. He adds that" each
tribe of Israel had this ensign of authority belonging to them!' We might perhaps have sup-
posed the engraving on the signet, to have been itself the distinctive mark of each particular
tribe; but that Herodotus seems to bar this supposition when he states that every Babylonian
sceptre was beaded with a pomegranate, an eagle, a lily, or some other ca"ed ornament; tq
use a sceptre without which, was unlawful. I assume here that the Babylonian and Hebrew
customs, being the same, were of the same remote Assyrian origin.
Digitized byGoogle
67
rial staff of each of the Hebrew tribes, then, mast haYe been distinguished
from an ordinary walking stick, by some ti"N (alii) or bringingto
mind the magisterial authority of the bead or leader of the tribe; aad
though in the days of Judah and Tamar, the Hebrew tribes were but
beginning to sprout from the parent stock, yet the Sllebet of Judah him-
self, probably bore that mark which afterward distinguished his tribe-
the sigH of the tribe being taken from the signet of the patriarch. · It is
not improbable that zodiacal Lion, of which (as the future of
this work will shew) the Chaldean cylinder$ aftbrd several repetitions! is
the scriptural " Lion of Judah"-the same which he bore on his signet,
forming either the whole or part of its device, assumed, or ordained; at
first perhaps for no other reason than because he born under the
sign Leo, it being the ancient usage of his Chaldean ancestry, to pledge
themselves by their native stars-by those stars which were honoured
by the presence of BaAl, or which were ascending from the horizon, at
the times of their respective births: hence probably the allusions to the
Lion in that part of the death-bed prophecy of Jacob, which concems
his son Judah; hence too that self-opinion which supported the royal
and warlike character by which the tribe of Judah was in after-ages dis-
tinguished.
I remember to have heard you say that, after a shower of rain, those
who inhabit the neighbourhood of the Babylonian" heaps," walk forth to
look for gems among the crumbled fragments of the ruined edifices ofthat
great metropolis, which gems, after such rain-falls, and whilst they remain
wet, glisten with their native colours and-more especially such as are
translucent, with some portion of "their original brightness." Happy
for the .public had it been, my friend, if the long-wished-for shower of
words from your pen, had in like manner, washed oft' from them the
metaphorical dirt and rubbish which have hitherto obscured all tno.
numents of this description : but, since you have consigned this first
cleansing to my best endeavours; and since it is the glow-worm light
which streams from these " stones of fire" upon the early scriptural writ-
ings, which so considerably enhances their value with all lovers oftruth;
I 2
Digitized byGoogle
68
I moat here beg leave to recal, for a moment, the more critical attention
of my readers, to that passage of the second Commandment to which I
have slightly adverted in my last: namely, that which expressly prohibited
among the children of Israel, the exiHteoce of graven images as objects
of adoration.
We are to reco1lect, that when this remarkable prohibition was uttered
-when each of the degcendants of Abraham was expressly restricted
from making unto himself any graven image-they were in the very pro-
cess of becoming a distinct people; that the Decalogue was the divine
mandate and means which was to E"ft'ect this entire and lasting separation
from all other nations; and that previous to this, the Hebrews may be
presumed, like their Assyrian ancestors, each to have possessed his
signet.-The every-day manner in which the signet of Judah is intro-
duced in Genesis, so entirely accords with the mention by Herodotus
that ever!/ Assyrian possessed a signet and walking-staff, that it would
be over scrupulous not to believe that the Abrahamic family were, with
regard to this customary article of personal property-this usual pledge
to the honourable fulfilment of a contract-like those of their Sabman
neighbours with whom they were in constant intercourse. Judah tra-
velled thus with his staffand signet to a sheep-shearing, where such pas-
toral business as the exchange of fleeces, or sheep, for other species of
property, was not unlikely to be transacted, and his signet might for
this purpose be wanted : or it might be wanted to consecrate a customary
sacrifice. But from the time of the promulgation of the Commandments,
the Jews were thenceforth and for ever, to separate themselves from those,
who, by mistaking concomitancy for causation, had fallen into the fatal
error,-in which superstitious habits, and the long established cystom of
their ancestry, had but too strongly confirmed them-of worshipping,
each his patron constellations, and of considering those constellations,
with perhaps, ·u Remphan the star of Israel," as the presiding goveruors
of his conduct, and arbiters of his destiny.
From all observances of this naturE', the Hebrews were now to be
weaned and withheld : and hence the wise interdiction by the Decalogue
of the ordinary means of temptation and vehicle of crime.
Digitized byGoogle
69
In the Morek NevocAim of Maimonides,• we read that, among the laws
of Moses, were several which God caused to be promulgated, in order to
restrain the Israelites from their propensities to the more ancient Sabman
worship. If the learned Rabbi is here guiding the perplexed in the right
direction; among those restrictive laws must doubtless have been, "Thou
shalt not make to t'k!Jself(that is for each man to possess as his own pe.
culiar property) any graven image: not the likeness of any thing in
heaven above; or on the earth beneath; or in the waters under the earth."
-The awful threat which could not fail to operate as a most powerful
inducement follows-" Thou shalt not bow down to them, nor worship
them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the sins," &c.
The reason for mentioning in this prohibitory law, heaven, earth, and
the waters, I conceive to have been-not that the host or mass of the
Israelites knew, or were supposed to know, aught of the immortal inha-
bitants of heaven, but-because, long before this miraculous era, the
Chephenes, or astronomical priesthood, in forming the celestial asterisms ;
had-chimerically, as it would appear to us at first sight; but not on
secoud thought, at this vast distance of time and place,-combined
fishes, with beasts, birds, and the human form: so as to constitute those
Minotauric, and Dagon-like, Andro-sphinges; (to use a term of Hero-
dotus,) and other monstrous combinations, which Berosus describes to
have been represented within the recesses of the great. Babylonian tem-
ple; and which we also find sculptured on some of those cylinders
which are about to become the subjects of our critical inspection.
Presuming that preliminary matters are at length sufficiently clear,
and that some degree of curiosity has been excited ; and hoping that I
shall have done something towards assisting the reader in the conoexioa
of general historical considerations, with the particular facts which we
• Part I. Dean Prideaux obu"u on thit pattage, that among the opponentt of the Rabbi
haYe been thote who argued that the Sabeana were an inconaiderable teet, and that conte-
quently it wu not likely that God should have ordained lawa in opp01ition to their ritet and
ceremQniet: but thia the learned Rabbi confutet, maintaining-aatiafactorily in the opinion of
our profound countryman-that notwitbttanding they were in hie time reduced to an incon-
tiderable number, yet that the Sabaans of old consitted of nearly all the nations of the eartb,
Digitized byGoogle
·,
70
are.approac:hiog-1 willingly turn for the present from these more abstruse
matters, in praotical.furtherance of my explanatory purpose.
Of the four or five engraved figures, which appear to have once sur-
rounded this cylinder, three only, and some slight vestiges, remain: and
of these three, which are clothed in the Babylonish costume, but two are
sufficiently legible to be the subject of comment. The most forward, and
least of these, is uncouth bull-horned, or crescent-crowned,
figure, habited in what I should conceive Mr. Thomas Hope, (an ama-
teur who bas successfully studied the dresses of the ancients) would call a
plaited or peplum, wrapped thrice round the wearer, and termi-
nated by a fringe ; which as that gentleman observes, has been repre-
sented by ..tEschylus, as a characteristic peculiarity of the peplum of the
Asiatic nations, and which agrees also with the scriptural• fame of the
robe of Babylon : beneath this, as far as can now be distinguished, is a
Vest, which accords with the general description of Herodotus, of the
Assyrian costume;t and if we except the head-dress, and the action of
the right arm-this is the same figure which occurs in such numerous
instances on those cylinders of Babylon, which I here presume, and shall
finally shew, to be of subsequent date to the present, and which I be-
lieve to be-l shall not say the Mylitta of Herodotus and Assyria, but-
the ..tEstarte of Phmnicia; the Juno-Venus, subsequently-as well as tbe
Diana, and Hecate, of Grecia ; and the Asteroth, and Baaltis-perhaps
also the Merodach of holy writ. In fine, a personification of the moon.
From the dissimilar accounts which the ancient mythologists have
left us, of this great Sabrean deity, we are compelled to the inferences
that, some of those who wrote did not know bow she was sculptured ;
and that at different times and places she was variously represented; as
human knowledge and local sentiment differed, and as art and refinement
learned to superinduce novelty and elegance, on rude nature and sim-
plicity.
From having been thus variously represented, and as variously named,
* See the story of Achar (in Joshua, chap. vii.) who was tempted to secrete a goodly Ba-
bylonish mantle. t " They have two veate, one of linen which falla to the feet ; another
over this which ia made ofwool."-&/De'• Herodottu, Clio, cxcv.
Digitized byGoogle
71
the primitive goddess-the Asteroth (or .AsAteroth) of 1be stctr8d amp.
tures,-has become so disguised, so modernised, ·and b&-Greek'd iuto
Junos, Hecates, Venuses, &c. that '\\re literally don't know her w:hen·we
her.-Calmet describes her as sometimes dressed in a long, aactat
others in a short, habit; in her temple at Libanus her head was·veiled;
according to Cicero she was exhibited in Phamicia with a quiver of'tll'·
rows; sometimes she appeared in a chariot : on the coins of Tyre, she
stands erect on the deck of a ship ; and on those of Carthage she is
seated on a lion and wields a thunderbolt.
Of coins in general, I tnig/&t say-in passing-as Mr. Jacob Biyant
was accustomed to say of the society or antiquaries-" They're not old
enough for me;" for presumptively all the cylindrical gems that 1 shall
have the honour of setting before the reader's notice, were engraven be:-
fore the art of die-sinking was invented. At Babylon, notwithstanding
its great opulence aod splendour, no tnoney is believed to have been
coined before the Macedonian conquest, any .more than in Egypt; at
least none of prior date has ever been found, and as, I believe, the down•
fal of the Assyrian monarchy preceded or accompanied the appearance
of the Persian Darics, we run small hazard in concluding that none ever
will be found. Nevertheless, it would be wrong to reject such ·aid.aa
ancient coins may supply, toward identifying our Assyrian and Phami-
cian goddess.
It is well known, that on the earlier Greek coins, deities sometimes
made their appearance; and if (as I incline to think) these deities were
of Assyrian derivation, those earlier personifications of the moon, which
app(mr on the coins of Greece, may possibly reflect back on ruined Ba-
bylon, some faii1t ray of the light that was originally emitted from her
meridian splendour.
A figure of ..tEstarte or Juno, apparently derived from that ancient
general representation of thitt deity, which will recur. more frequently
than any other figure, in the subsequent part of this work, may be seea
in Spanheim. It is a front view of the goddess, habited in much the same
manner as that in which she so frequently appears on the engraved cylin-
ders, and standing on a crescent. On her head is a conical mitre, sur-
Digitized by Google
.72
mounted by a much smaller crescent; her vestment, as on the cylinders,
covers her figure from head to foot; but there are on the coin, no convo.
lutions, or wrappings round, as in the case of the Babylonian .figure.-
Tboagh the dress has apparently the same parts with the former, there
is some local difference; the style of it, is that of another country. She
here throws on either side, a peplum, as it were to reveal, or shew herself:
peplum appears to be suspended from the horns of the crescent
above. As it is a direct front view, the analogical allusion is probably to
the full moon emerging from the clouds, and the crescents are merely
symbols. ·
In a future Essay, I shall reqnest attention to the engraved figures of
this great Sabrean deity which abound on the cylindrical gems, as com-
pared with the descriptions of those statues of the goddess which once
existed at Babylon, and in her temple at Hierapolis in Syria.
As the moon is ever in motion, and ever changing, we are not to won-
der that the most remarkable of her changes, should become objects of
especial and notation, to an astronomical people. It has been
already intimated that one of those changes, or phases as they are techni-
cally styled, and one of her nightly varying stations in her own peculiar
zodiac, are probably intended to be hieroglyphically shewn on the black
jasper cylinder which is the present subject of our inYestigation.
Not much more than a geographical degree to the eastward of the lake
of Genesareth, and near the foot of the Antilibaniau chain of mountains,
there existed in the time of the patriarch Abraham,-and how much
earlier can only be conjectured,-a place called Asteroth that
is, Asteroth the lwrned, where, according to Genesis, .xiv., the Rephaim
were overpowered by Chedorlaomer and his associates..
Parkhurst conjectures that the Rephaim had obtained their name
" from being the restorers of the antediluvian idolatry of the moon;" and
that hence their principality was termed Asteroth the horned. He also
thinks it probable that the idol n,nrv.v was in the form of a woman with
the head and horns of a bull, and quotes Sanchoniathon to shew that,
.according to the Phamician mythology, ..Estarte put upon her own head,
the head of the bull as an ensign of royalty; he moreover quotes Or-
Digitized byGoogle
73
pheus in confirmation, who in his hymn to the Moon, styles her " Bull-
horned." • The learned lexicographer has not stopped ·to consider why
the. head of a bull should be regarded· as an emblem ·of. royalty; nor to
reflect that bull-Aomed is not bull-headed: yet surely there exists a ·dis-
tinction not very recondite, between these accounts of Sanchoniathon and
Orpheus. ·
Now bull-horned figures-sometimes simply of the human form, and
at others Minotauric chimerre with human beads-are not unfreqnent on
these antique cylinders, but they are more frequently bearded than·otb.er-
wise, and cannot therefore, in·these instances, be intended for Asteroth
Karnaim ; unless we· should take the latitude which those w.ould will-
ingly allow, who state that "she sometimes was styled a goddess; and
sometimes a god, by the Assyrians, on account of the ambiguity of gender
in the orientallanguages."-l cann6t however avail myself of this, or sup-
pose that thP. asserted ambiguity, could so far operate in their sculpture as
to occasion them, without good reason, to omit beards in some instances
and affix them in others, to the chins of their human figures. I believe
that sex had a great deal to do with the Sabrean modes and objects of
worship, as well as with the syst-em of principles ·on which they were
founded.
Of what Mr. Jacob Bryant bas written upon the subject of the Mino-
tauri, I am well aware. I have read, without conviction, that this
chimera came originally to Assyria and to Crete, from Egypt :t I have
read moreover-but entirely disbelieve-that "an heifer was the ap-
pointed emblem of the ark of Noah,"t and that "that patriarch was
represented under the semblance of a bull, or with the head of. that
animal."§ Mr. Bryant is a potent wizard, no doubt, and
" Can make a lady seem a knight:
And white seem black, and black seem white:
So much baa be of Gkzmour might."
* At Elis was a statue of the moon, which according to Pausanias, hook vi. chap. wu
horned; his learned trantlator and annotator, Mr. T. Taylor, says, that her horns" were doubt·
leu tbote of a bull."-Yide vol. iii. of bit Pauaaniaa, p. SiS. t As is stated in p. SOi.
iii, of Bryant's "Analysis of Ancient Mythology,''·8vo. edit. t p. 296. § p. 819.
It
Digitized byGoogle
74
Yet I can no more believe these things of the Minotauri of antiquity,
than I can believe those other a&S(>rtions of this learned gentleman, that
Semiramis never exiMted : that the Egyptian pyramids were fire temples;
that the tale of Troy was entirely the inve.ticm of Homer; and that the
ten years war, which the ancient poets have celebrated as having been
waged between the gods and the giants, was terminated by the patriarch
Abraham, assisted by his pastoral allies and his sei'Vants; and which in
fact Mr; Bryant would have us believe was finally accomplished very
shortly after the fight at Asteroth Karnaim ; of which it was the result:
the Rephaim being "no other" (according to him) "than the Titans, ren-
dered by the Seventy, the giant brood in Asterotb."
No·. I rather incline to think that all the Sabman monuments, wherein
the bull appears, or appears mingled with the human form, have some
reference or other to the asterism Taurus.
In· truth, on the questions respecting Asteroth Kamaim, and the bull
with crescent horns; a little astronomy is of more value than all Mr.
Bryant's literary labour. That gentleman, however profoundly learned
on some other points, and however venerable on that account-is here,
verbally learned on a subject where words do not avail, or avail but
little; and hence, he inverts the well known fable of the astronomer who
fell into a pit, for he is digging downward for "roots," when be ought to
be looking upward at the stars.
According to Sir WilJiam Jones; the Rev. Mr. Maurice; and Mr.
Costard, the lunar zodiac, or series of nocturnal mansions of the moon,
formed part of a very ancient system of Arabian astronomy. As, in the
solar zodiac, the sun was observed from month to month to pass from
one house or sign, to another ; so the moon also was said to change her
mansion every night, and to pass the fourth night of her age with the
Hyades, forming those lunette 'and bieroglyphical homs a little above
that cluster of stars, and on the forehead of the bull, which not unfre-
quently appear among the sculptured monuments of Egypt and Greece,
as well as those of Assyria.-Thus say the astronomical records which
have been derived from Arabia, as they have usually beeu construed;
but I shall proceed .to shew, that originally this must have taken place
..
Digitized byGoogle
76
immediately after the vernal conjunction of the Moon with Sol in Taurus,
at the very commencement of the year :-and then only, to speak with
astronomical precision.
The phenomenon here spoken of, bas been celebrated by some of the
classic writers; and hence bas been regarded by those who were unob-
servant of the stars, as if it were real, regular, and of monthly recurrence:
but these monthly and nocturnal residences, or transits, of the moon, ex-
cepting at the seasons of recommencement of the Metonic cycle, could
have been only nominal ; and must have compelled those who used or
tolerated them, to frequent intercalations. It is now generally known,
that between eighteen and nineteen years must elapse before the moon
returns to the same places on the same nights of her age. And indeed-·
whatever sacrifices of truth, ancient astronomy may occasionally have
made, to opinions which had incorporated themselves with the popular
superstitions-my own belief is, that the esoteric astronomy of the Cbal-
deans was also far better informed, in what respected the path or orbit of
the moon, than this Arabian zodiac would seem to imply.
That the Chaldeans were acquainted with the Metonic cycle, I do not
here venture positively to affirm or deny : Mr. Freud, to whom the pub-
lic have for these sixteen years past been indebted for a detailed nightly
account of the celestial• phenomena, and who is well qualified to form
an opinion on the subject, thinks they were; and Costard, in his " Rise
of Astronomy," &c., appears to understand that cycle as being no other .
than the Chaldean Saros. But it is difficult, though very possible, to
suppose the lunar zodiac to be much older than three thousand years.-
From its beginning with the stars in the horns of the Ram, it would seem
to be fairly inferable that, this zodiac was formed at some time in the
course of the one and twenty centuries during which Aries was the first
of the zodiacal signs ; I own however that-being inclined to believe
with Dr. John Hill, that this Arabian zodiac is meant by the word
" Mazzaroth" in the book of Job ; and being also, as before stated, of
the number of those who believe that poem to be of very remote anti-
* " Evening Amuaements, or the beauty of the Heavens displayed."
K 2
/
Digitized byGoogle
76
quity-these horns,. are the ·horns of a dilemma to me, from· which I must'
hope for relief from your Arabian scholarship.
The Doctor•s idea is, that Jehovah alone possessed the power to "bring
forth .Mazzaroth.• in its season:" that is to say, so to regulate, or carry
round, .the moon, or her mansions,- that,-tbe mysterious cycle being com-'
pleated,-the pristine.order of procession shaH be renewed, and the first
month of the year commence with the moon on the head .of Aries. And·,'
it is remarkable, that this first mansion of the moon was called .AJ..skerat4•
by these Arabian astronomers, which is emphatically tke sign 1- Per.:
haps you will recollect that I have among your smaller Babylonian sig-
nets, two with Bat faces, of which this first mansion of the·moon forms
the devjce.: one being simply the ram·s horns surmounted by the crescent
moon ; and the other, the head and horns of .Aries, springing from that
known emblem of vernal humidity, the expanding bud <>f the lotus;
with the bright star.Arietis in the field of the garnet. Both appear to
have been signets of Babylonian citizens of inferior condition, who were
aatives (as the astrologic phrase is) of the sign Aries: one born, as I am
led to.suppose, while the star..Arietis was rising heliacally,-the ·other,
on the first night .of the new moon-or perhaps the second,-or third, (or
while she was.yet a crescent) for strictly speaking, on the night of'her
conjunction with the sun, she is not visible. Further, if Mazzaroth was
in its season, the first moon of the year-called Neo-menia by the Greeks,
* Having thus far in printing. the present volume, I have to .acknowledge the
receipt, through Mr. Valpy, of the learned " Memoir" of Sir William Drummopd on tbe
zodiacs of Esne and Dendera; and the great pleaaure and profit I derive from reading it.-But
I obsene in p. 74, that thia pbilosophicalacbolar, underatands the Mazzarotb of Job to be tbe
1olar zodiac, and paraphrase• the passage in question, as follows : " Camt thou bringforth tlae
r.otliGcalligm, each according to the 1ta1on in wllich it ougl•t to appear f'-With due submiuion,
it appears to me that the meaning which Hill bas to this text,· is more,pertinent;
aince, to restore what is aometimea deranged, or apparently out of season, in the celestial phe-
nomena, implies, to mortal minds, a more godlike manifestation of power; and fills up tbe re.
quired meaning better, than bringing forth the signs of the solar zodiac, each according to the
aeaaon in which it conatantly.doea make its.appearance.-But Sir William's argument against
Visconti ia not a whit the less conclusive on thia account, because the lunar zodiac implies the
exiatence of the aame conatellationa as the solar.
Digitized byGoogle
77
and' celebrated by them, a's well as universally by the
nations, as an important festival-would also be indicated ; the vernal
equinox being in Arie8 at the time.
The only way in which I can in any degree reconcile ·Sir William
Jones's idea of the remote era of the ·formation of the lunar zodiac, with
the fact of its beginning with the first stars of Aries; and without detract-
ing from the high antiquity of the book of Job, is by recolJecting another
fact; which perhaps the reader will deem of a less controvertible nature':
namely, that·the large and bright star in the head ofTaurus, was by
these same Arabians caJJed Ai.-nEBARAN: tbat is, the foremost, or lead"
ing; star: which, as it could only have been thus named, when it did
actually precede all others, records, with its own etymology, a very im-
portant and luminous truih ; from which I would argue, that after the
sun had made his vernal transit from Taurus into Aries, the lunar zodiac
was altered at the same time with the popular calendar; and that only
this later order of the mansions has descended to us.
Be these matters as they may, I conceive that Asteroth Karnaim b&.
longs to that earlier period when the year opened with Sol in Taurus ;
and that aU the ancient sculptures to which I hav·e adverted, particu-
larly these of Assyria, and those of Egypt, wherein the bull appears wiUl
lunette, or crescent horns, and with the disc of the sun placed between
those horns (of which there are several of bronze and sculptured stone
in the British and other museums) are direct allusions to the Important
festival of the first new moon of the year-if not during those one and
twenty centuries which preceded the sun's passage into Aries at the
season of the vernal equinox, at least till the colure had advanced, or
retrograded, (for I hardly know which to term a portion of circular
movement,) to the Pleiades, which in their turn became leading stars of
the vernal season.
The number of bronze bulls with lunette horns, which have been dug
up af Babylon, leave little room to doubt that a festival, and other sacred
rites, ofA8teroth Karnaim, were there observed, as well as in Egypt, and
Canaan :-either (as afterward among the Jews) a monthly feast in ho-
nour of the new moon; OJ an annual celebration of the festival of the
first new moon, when the year opened with Sol and Luna in Taurus.
Digitized byGoogle
78
.,All the nations of the East appear to have hailed with suitable rejoic-
ings, the appearance of the,first new moon of the year: and the new years'
festivals of Babylon and Judea, had in all probability a common origin
with those of Egypt, Persia, and Greece; for though there were religious
wars at this early period, yet, in later times, the points of contest were
those of subordinate importance.
. The Persian Nouropze has l)een often described; and we know that
the annual return of this season was celebrated by the Hebrews with the
SOllnd of trumpets: whence in the Psalm which was-and I believe still
is,-annually recited at the Jewish feast of trumpets, on their new year's
day, David sings, cc Blow the trumpet in the new moon: in the time ap-
p()iflted: on our solemn feast-day : for thi' is a statute unto Israel, and a
law of the God of Jacob. This he ordained in Joseph for a testimtmy
"hen he came out of the land of Egypt."
JJere the royal Psalmist appears to advert to the origin of the festival,
for the sacred ordinances of the Jews might not be permitted to reach
than their exody :-but it is not little remarkable that be Hhould
r;nention Joseph, and not Moses in this place :-However, with him the
more ancient rites of Asteroth Kamaim were out of the question•
...It is well that a conjunction between the two great luminaries
takes place every month; and so scrupulously observant of the moon,
were the in celebration of this monthly feast, that Godwin
says, "When the conjunction was over-past before noontide, then the new
moon was celebrated the $ame day ; but if it continued but one minute
after noon, then the feast was translated to the day following, because
otherwise they should begin their holy-day in the time of the old moon.,.
Of the brQnze bulls of Babylon which I have mentioned above, you
may remember presenting one to Sir William Ouseley ; and that another,
exactly like it, remains in my possession. They have lunette horns; and
what is equally remarkable, they have the buffalo hump of the cattle of
the Ganges, which seems to corroborate Mr. Payne Knight's hypo-
thesis of the original Taurus being the Urus or wild bull of northern
Asia.
* "Civil and Ecclesiutical Rite•. &c." p. 128.
Digitized byGoogle
79
Of this bull a representation, somewhat reduced in size from the original
-will be-found a little further on in this volume: and with it, I have ex-
hibited an astronomical bull of bronze, which was imported from China,
and one of stone, with the disc of the sun and the crescent moon above his
bead, which was brought from Palestine by SirWilliam RouseBaughton.
These I have thrown togetber, in order to afford a comparative view of
the antique Tauri of three great, and very ancient, Sabrean nations. ·
A religious reverence for the zodiacal 'btlll, appears, from a very early
period, to have been pretty general-perhaps it w'as universal,-through-
out Asia, from that chain or region of Caucasus to which it gave name,
and which is still known under the appellation of Mount Taurus, to the
southern extremities of the Indian peninsula; extending itself also into
Europe, and through the Eastern of Africa. It evidently originated
during those remote ages of the world, when the colore of the vernal
equinox passed across the stars in the head of the sign Taurus-a period
when, as the most ancient monuments of all the oriental nations attest,
the genial light of arts and letters, first shone forth.
And this reverence for Taurus, appears to have continued among the
uninitiated multitude, long after the lapse of those one and twenty·cen-
turies, during which the equinoctial colore remained in that constella-
tion, and when it had passed into that of the Ram. That the vulgar do
not easily abandon any sacred custom over which two thousand years
have rolled their venerable sanction, is no new discovery-or at lea.St, it
is none of mine :-Even so lately as the age of Augustus, Virgil (I sup.
pose in conformity with popular belief) wrote··
" Candidua auralis aperit cum cornibu& annum
TAvaus."-
And when we recolJect how very customary it is even at present, to
begin our enumeration of the zodiacal asterisms with Aries-as if Aries
were still the first of the signli-notwithstanding that the vernal colore
has retrograded to the farthest degrees of Pisces, we must cease to feel
surprise at the continuance to a time far beyond its astronomical period,
of the ancient veneration for the constellated bulJ.
Digitized byGoogle
80
Mr. Payne Knight, supporting his allegations as usual on sound clas-
sical authorities, saylf-" The Chinese have .still a temple called the
palace of the homed bulJ ; and the same symbol is worshipped in Japan,
and all over Hindostan. In the extremity of the west it was .also once
treated with equal honour; the Cimbrians having carried a brazen bu11
with them as the image of their gorl, when .thtiy over,.ran Spain and Gaul;
and the name of the god Thor,_the Jupiter of the ancient Scandinaviaas,
signifying in their language a bull, as it does likewise in the Chaldee."--
--" In many Greek, and in some Egyptian, monuments, the bull is re-
presented in an attitude of attack, as if striking at something with his
horns; and at Meaco in Japan, the creation of the world, or organization
of matter, is represented by the Deity under the image or symbol of a
bull breaking the shell of an egg with his horns, and animating the con-
tents of it with his breath•."--
As this Japanese bull might prove rather a dangerous animal, I should
not choose to attempt to take him by the horns; and not presuming. to
quarrel with the construction put upon this sculpture (for such I suppose
it is) by the author of the " Memorable embassy to the Emperor of Ja-
pan"-that is, by an author I do not know, upon a monument which I
Aave not seen, I willingly leave it to you, my friend, who in all
lity Aave seen it, in the course of your oriental travels.-In other instances
I suspect that the Orphic, or Mundane egg (as it baH been often termed)
is meant by that " something," which in the Greek and Egyptian mono-
is only.mysteriously indicated ; and that this egg is nothing more
nor less than the symbolical and annually recurring orb of the new, or
prospective year, at the vernal season: white in its purity; teeming with
vitality ; yet veiled with that uncertainty which is the parent of the most
pleasing hopes. The whole is in beautiful analogy with the natural phe-
nomena of the vernal season. Taurus, reanimated by the returning
energy of annual productive causation, of which it necessarily became
the accredited sign-by opening the year, burst the symbolical shell.
In all probability, it was in its origin, to the same mystic purport, that
* Inquiry into the Symbolical Language of ancient Art and Mythology, ·pp. 22, Tbia
latter fact ia taken from the printed account of a Japanese embauy.
Digitized byGoogle
81
there still remains in the island of Cyprus, an antique vase of an egg-like .
form, and of the extraordinary dimensions of thirty feet in circumference!
on which the bull of the zodiac is sculptured in good style.
I exhibit a representation of this vase; than which I know not where
to look for a larger. Its girth exceeds by about four feet that of the vase
which was presented by his holiness the Pope to his present Majesty;-
on which the Academician Westmacott is at this time employing his mas-
terly chisel; and which has been caJied the largest in the'world.
The reader will observe, that the Bull of our Cyprian vase is sculptured
in high relief, and is· tastefulJy placed in a semicircular niche, which is
hollowed out and over-arched for its reception, in that part of the vase,
where in smaJier vessels of the same kind, would be placed the ear or
handle. Whether on the side opposite to the Bull, the sign Scorpio iN
sculptured and inserted in a tJimilar manner, it· is now unhappily, too
late to learn either from the artist who made the drawing of this antique,
or his patron, Sir Robert Ainslie, for both are fallen into the grave·
Any·future traveller who may visit Lemisso, would do well to notice this
circumstance, and also whether there be any remains-(as I suspect
there is) of Loo and Aqnarius oti those other two Aides of the vase which
are in quadrature with -
My reasons for this suspicion, are, thatfour ears· or handles are· quite
unu·sual on ·antique vases of any dimensions; and that here are four;
wherefore, though it should be argued that the present vase is
yet it is too large to be removable even by means of ·four handles : and
the astronomical reader need not be told, that for the period during which
the vernal colore passed through Taurus, that of the autum'nal equinox,
cut in like manner, across the constellation Scorpio ; whilst Leo and
Aquarius were the places of the corresponding solstices.
The modern Lemisso (sometimes written Limassol) stands on the south
side of the isle of Cyprus, and on the site of the Amathus of remote an-
tiquity: and in a lonely spot in its neighbourhood, where it probably still
remains;was found this wondrous egg. (Mr. Meyer remarked that the
stone of which it is formed, was hard,-probably indurated by time and
the heat of·the sun, for on some minerals, the joint operation of these;
L
Digitized byGoogle
81
wm this.eft'ect-but that within it was sefter, and when rubbed
the.odo.ur of petroleum.)
A temple of Venus is known to have stood bereabeut, it having })een
tbe chid ornameut ol the ancient city of aad ce1ebrated for
rites w.hich were there solemnized in honour Of Venus and Adouis.
Of thit it may be feared that the ravages which the island sus-
tained during cru.sadiug ages, as well as subsequently under the do-
minion of the Turks. have demolished or removed the walls and columns;
a,s Adollis was of Pbceni.ciau-though more r-emotely (aM I trust will
be iu. a stlllsequent part of tiUs work) oflEthiopian aDd astronomi,.
aud as -be Greek.
s.obtained their .knowledg.e oi the goddess
Venus i'ow this Jaer highly favoured island of Kvpris, ii appears
to be.fa,r. the pale of possibility, that the sculptured egg, or vase,
of wh,ich tepreseutation is before us, may have remaioed from those
tiJ.ues; ao.d IUa.y have been used in the celebration of those Cy-.
myiJteries. with whi£h able Us delighted to ltusy herself. Having·
lJeen built, (as Herodotus. informs us this temple was,) by
-.JMI after the modeL of tha.t at Ascalon, which of all the sacred. edifices
to. Venus. was the most ancieat ;• the Taurine rites. to which ou11
sculptured Amathusian bull may have belonged, may have been intN-
duced W.to Cyprus togetME wiili the worship of this. g()ddess. Ac-
cor,ding tp the cassicallegends, Venus once changed her Amatbusians
i.JUo bulls; and some other occasion, horus sprouted. from theil'
i»iebeads: both of whi£b.,are mystic aJlusions o£ which the occult meao-
i.ug may.oot y.et be gone-(some reference they may perhaps
ha.ve •d to Asteroth. Karnaim) but of which I shaH not at present essay.
the explanation. Taurus has ever been.esteemed the fa:vourite mansiof)
of the planet Venus, .
In a futulie- page, where the subject will more pertinently introduce
itself, I IUean to resume the. consideration of that mystic re-invigorating
pf,iuciple ofannual fecundity., which was among the Sabreans re1igiously
connecb3d with the heliacal1or; cosmical: rising of the Tauric " stars qfi
abundaace,"-so termed by all the Oriental nations of antiquity; and the.
learned will permit we to sQ.y, that, notwithstanding aU that has bee11
* I copy theae facta frum Vol. I. Clio CV.
Digitized byGoogle
83
written on the subject, it yet remains for scholars to identify, or
mioate between. the Grecian Venus, and the Mylitta of Assyria and
Herodotus.
In abatement of the full amount of what-eYer value may be attached to
these remarks, it must be acknowledged that the sculpture of this Cyprian
bull, is in a taste and style somewhat superior to the generality of such
Phamician art as we laave yet seen, and which seems rather to point
ward the Diore refined art of Greece: nor bas the bull, the hump of the
Asiatic Taurus.
Neither am I without some sceptical misgivings (the mention of which
may assist the general reader in forming an opinion for himselt) in
ring the mystic meaning of this Orphic or mundane egg, to a season of
annual recurrence. Those who have mythologised differently, may with
great plausibility-and perhaps with truth-certainly with the poets on
their side-argue, that as here stood the ancient temple• of the goddess
of Love; the mundane egg may emblematically-or rather cosmogoni-
cally-connect itltelf with the more ancient rites, as representing that
chaotic egg, on which primordial love-" Dove-like sat brooding."-In
which case the Japanese bull, which is mentioned above, will bear to be
regarded as a more remote, and less elegant and expressive, symbol to
the same purport.
I own however, that, on the whole-seeing we have the evideace of
Homer that, before the Trojan war the fine arts ofPbrenicia bad reached
much farthet than modern criticism would else have been disposed to
allow the Sidonians credit for; and recollecting that the city and temple
ofAmathus, were of Phreoician foundation, erected in all probability by
a colony from that previously existing Amathat which stood not fat east-
• I believe the literal meaning of .Ama-thru ia l.Hoe-inctnle : for Thru is iJtCeue; but it we
oould be aure of this, it might still be hard to eay whether this temple of Venus existed before
.Atrta was the synonym of Love ? Tbit meaning may have been derived from the temple.
t Tbe HtmUJtA of the t'arly ecripturea. Reeembliog sounds derived from un-ortbograpbical
agee, a&re glittering but often delutive : yet opinion should always be free; and it ia the duty
of a public writer to at1ist io forming it·on the moat estended premiees. Ham-atA may be an
utronomical appellation, taken from the name of the Sabean 100 of Noah, combined with
the primitive M"'N-
'· 2
Digitized byGoogle
84
ward of the source of the Jordan, nor very far from Sidon (the prime
seat of art); bearing in mind too, the presence on this monu·
ment of the sculptured bull, and it.<il transcendental importance as an an·
cient sign-I incline to the belief formerly expressed, that it
belongs to the later part of that remote and important period of Taurine
splendour, " When with his horns the Bull unbarr'd the year."
Returning to the details of our Babylonian cylinder: it will be ob.
served that the bull-horned figure which I have supposed may be intended
for Asteroth-Karnaim-and if not for Asteroth-Karnaim, certainly for
that bull-horned Asteroth of.whom other examples will occur in .the
course of these researches, always hieroglyphically expressing the first
new moon of the year while Taurus remained the first of the zodiacal
signs.-It will be observed, I repeat, that she is evidently leading onward
another figure holds a quadruped. The fore legs of this quadru-
ped are obliterated .by time anrl ar.cirlent, and the animal has small rt>-
mains of distinctive marking; but from the general proportion .which it
bears to the human figures, and from the little that does remain, I under-
stand it to be intended-perhaps for a ram, (or lamb,) which from the first
has apparently been so uncouthly expressed as to require the faith of an
hierophant to its meaning.
This figure is-or rather was-followed by two others, the forwardest
.of them apparently bearing a basket; but these figures are become too
illegible to be the subject of comment. One sees only that they have
been habited in the embroidered and fringed costume of Babylon.
The bearded figure which holds the quadruped, I conceive, may be
intended for BaAl, Bee], or Bel (the personified sun), the chief deity of
Babylonia, (of whom I shall have much future occasion to treat,) in pos-
session of Aries.-In short, the Baal-ammon of Solomon's song. Tbe
Baal-ammon of Solomon's song, I may be told, was a place so named :
but, granting this, it was clearly so named in honour of the great Sabman
· deity. If it be not the very city now called Baal-bec, it must have been
situated near it, and could not have been very far from the place called
after Asteroth-Karnaim. I should suppose that the name
must have been conferred on this place, at the remote era. when, at the
Digitized byGoogle
86
season oflhe vernal equinox (the commencement of the Chaldean year)
the sun was uo longer found to be :in the sign Taurus, but had begun to
enter that of Aries ;-when it had even begun to be publicly acknow-
.ledged to have made this important transit,-and the Ram became in.its
turn the leader of the celestial signs; ·which by the help of a few
rals, would give the probable date of the naming of the district of Basi-
ammon; a part of Canaan, which I have elsewhere presumed to be the
site of the city built by King Solomon, and called by him Baal-ath.
There is allowed to be mystery in Solomon's song. It is therefore possi-
ble, and even not unlikely, that the poet's allusion may not be to the place
called BaAl-ammon, or .BaAI-ath ; but.that the lovely shepherdess or vine-
keeper who stood so high in the royal favour, might have been a native of
.Baal-ammon in the astrological• sense ofthose words; that is to say, hom
.while the sun was in Aries, and courted while Solomon was an apostate.
-But I find myself wandering,-if not from the text,-from one of my
.own purposes, which is, to pass over the differences of construction ·that
may here arise between those who contend that this "Song of songs,"was
a love-song, and those who profeRR to believe that it iR a Chnrr.h-song.
If, as is supposed above. the had recently entered the sign Aries at
the time specified in.this gem; which appears not improbable, and which
would confer on the engraving an antiquity of about four thousand years;
.the device may have had reference to that Babylonian festival (of Neo-
menia, to call it by a Greek word) which was celebrated at the first cres-
cent, or new, moon, of every new year, during a period when Mazzaroth
not being exactly in its season (though not far from it) there existed a
slight discrepancy between solar and lunar time: .Baal and the equinox
having moved into Aries, while Asteroth at the commencementof the year
was found to be in Taurus.-1 assume that the stations of the sun and
* It hu not however, been astrologically construed by Mr. Harmer. "She (says
that gentleman) for her marriage portion, a noble and fruitful estate in Baal-ammon"-wbich
be supposes to have been "situated in the delightful valley of Boscat, in the immediate vicinity
of Bal-bec, leased out to a variety of tenantll, wboee number we are not acquainted with, but
e1'ery one of whom paid bet a clear rentnl of a thousand shekels of silver." My may
now determine, each for between the matter of poetry, aod the matter of fact.
Digitized byGoogle
i.
I
86
moon.were bete·obliged to be specified; bot, as David sings, c'the tffOOft
was tbe sign offet\sts ;, alld while the calendar was disarranged-that is
to say, when suo and moon were not concordant at the vernal seuou,
_:lunar time appears to have over-ruled and governed the solar-at leut
in the exoteric astronomy of the Cbaldeans-probably because the fixed
stars which sened to mark the stations of the planets, were visible to
1/u Mtdtitwde at night, who could not with the same ease and certainty
know the suo's place by day.
These suppositions, aad these facts, (my dear Sir) will be found to
correspond both with that Jewish f(>8st of trumpets which bas been al-
ready alluded to, and with our own Easter. I believe that ourfestival of
Easter, is by Bochart and Gale, and also by Parkhunt, asserted to be of
Phamician origin : I believe that it was originally the feast of £starte,
or Asteroth, as the name is 'fariously writteD. I know of no
word that appears so likely as this, to be the etymon of Easter. In
truth it is the Tery word, with the omissioa of its terminatioa,-tbe diph-
thong M having been turned about by the Saxons during the dark ages
--perbape from the of writing it otherwise. It is also the same
sacred festiYal; the new, having been changed to tbe fuJI, moon, in the
coarse of tbe process of converting it to Christianity. On the other haad
-Ifthe dmce have no such referettce to an ancient Babylonian kstival;
but (agreeably to my former hypothesis) relates to the nativity of the iodi-
'ridual who- first used it as his signet, he most have come into the world
at theTery commencement of the Cbaldean year; somewhere about four
thousand years ago: and a modem astrologer would explain tbe device
shortly, by saying that, when the nati1'e was hom, Sol was just entering
the sign Aries, whil-st Luna was crossing the forehead of Taoras.
I speak of ·this engraving-which is in part obliterated, and what r&o
mains of which is both fractured and worn-with considerable uncer-
tainty. From seeing the etching which accompanies what I write ;-or,
if the reader pleases, from seeing an impression of the original cyIinder
-be may be enabled to determine for himself. Perhaps as we proceed
in this astronomical inquiry, our light may increase; and distinct stars
may emerge, where at present are only nebula.
Digitized byGoogle
ESSAY V. TO RICHARD PAYNE KNIGHT, ESQ. V.P.S.A. &c. &c. &c.
SIR,-The known value of your opinion on subjects connected .with
ancient art and mythology; combined with your candour, and your cau-
tion in admitting nove) and ill-principled interpretations, have induced
me to address the present essay to you. Your knowledge of ancient
languages too, (not to mention your astronomical science,) by soaring
where I sink, may, as I flatter myself, come in aid of that mutual con-
viction, and that public information, which are my eventual purposes. If
the engraved gems of ancient Babylon should enable me to throw new light
on any of those problems which have for ages divided the learned, such
a result cannot fail to prove highly interesting to Mr. Payne Knight.
On the important but embarrassing questions of, which is the oldest
nation of the world? and, what people were the inventors of astronomy?
and astrology? (which doubtless were anciently regarded but as one and
the same science) we cannot reasonably expect much more information
from classical Jiteratnre than we have already attained-unless haply, we
&hould meet with ancient MSS. which have hitherto eluded research: we
Digitized by Coogle
88
should therefore with the more zeal, seek for it among such sculptured
or engraved monuments of remote antiquity, as have escaped the de-
structive ravages of time and war.
The banks of the Tigris and Euphrates cannot in this respect vie in
imposing character, with those of the Nile. As Assyria is not a coun-
try of stone, no monuments of the same gigantic and durable kind with
the wonders of Egypt, can be expected to remain at Babylon, Nineveh,
or the sites of Resen, Calah, or Ur. But smaller antique monuments
may possibly be the depositaries of truths not less important: we trace
more of grandeur and beauty in the engraved gems of Greece, than in the
colossi of Egypt; nor perhaps can any thing now be conceived more
likely to contain the information of which we are in quest, than such
engraved Sabrean or Chaldean signets as are the proper subjects of the
present essays. To the sacred care of the art of engraving on imperish-
able substances, it has ever fallen to cherish and reproduce the creations
of genius. The talismanic casket, where antique taste, knowledge,
beauty, and grandeur have reposed, has been in her vestal keeping. It
is she who from age to age has preserved alive those embers of Prome-
thean fire-stolen at first from heaven-which rekindle the light of mind,
and convey its radiant blessings through dark and barbarous periods.
Of the architectural attainments of the aborigines of this part of Asia,
our knowledge is but general and vague; amounting to little more than
that their edifices were of brick, of square forms, and of vast dimensions:
but the present engravings throw some light on those powers of imitative
art, which have been alluded to by Ezekiel, and eulogized by Herodotus
and Diodorus; as well as on that astronomical science which will here
come under our more especial review: and it may not be unworthy of
passing notice, nor of being remembered by the philosophical inquirer,
that, as far as the national st9le of Assyrian art may be judged of by the
best of these cylinders (of which the present is one) it bears a much
nearer resemblance to early Grecian art, both in its general arrangement
and its freedom of outline, than exists between the latter, and the stiff,
trammelled, and conventional, art ofEgypt Homer points to Phrenicia
as having produced those personal ornaments belonging to the Greeks
Digitized byGoogle
89
of the heroic whereon he art had been employed; and wltea tile
present :Babylonian engraving is exhibited, it may easily he belieYetl that
this great metropolis was tbe e&mmon eeater ofPamnician,. and of AsaJ-
rian, art. In the collocation ofparts which it displays, there is, I pres...
to think, to an eye accustomed to make c&mparisODs in tracing the
progreu of style, an Hideat,-theagh not very aear,-resemblanee to thM
of those sculpiured from tile temple of Apollo, which are nowr
in our natioaal collectioa. So mucb reaemblauce laowevel', as at leastta
l'ender it not improbable that we aay bere behold the orieatal tJi
that sun of art, which afterwards gilded·the Parthenon and its owa temple
at Phigalia, with unfading glory.
In seeking fM the seed-bed of astronomy, Luciaa.,. as you will re-
meoabeF, furtber south than :Babylon. He says that thie seience
eame originalty froa lEthiopia; but whether by that d'enomioatie111, he
lDE'QDs the oriental or the occidental.lEthiopia?-Whetber the nation of
Cushites eastward, or that westward, of the Red Sea? is Dot specified::
aor perhaps will it be thought material by those who believe- that b&th
these p.eople were of the same lank-hairedl race.
That this wa& not a mere paseing thought of Lucian's, whilst treatiowa
subject where some ha•e doub.ted the eincerity of his gravity, but wu·his
settled opioioll; may be shewn from his dramatic story of " the Ronaw.ay.
Slaves:" which aJso,may, incline us to suppose, that where be is describ-
ing the constant sersnity of the ..Ethiopian climate and• atmosphere, he
means tbose of the Happy Arabia.;. which is by most geographical aJ1ti.,
qnaries thought to have been peopled before the banks of lJpper
lo that story, he introduces Philosophy he1'8eJf, declaring to Jupiter tba*
from the Brachmans, she r-epaired: straight to .lEthiopia, from.thence to
the .Egyptians, w.bose poets and·prophets she instructed, and t!&en,betook
herself to Babylon to instruct the Cbaldeans.
This latter is perhaps an erroneous statement; but is not immediately
in question. Mr. Tooke (the latest translator of Lucian) adds in this
place, very pertinently to our present occasion, "The route which
Lucian causes Philosophy to take, from the Brachmans to the .lEthio.
pians, and from thence for the first time to the Egyptians, agrees pel\-
Digitized byGoogle
•
90·
fectly with Herder's very probable h:tpothesis (which is also corroborated
by Diodorus Siculus) that the EK!Jptians were a. people of SoutAern
Asia, wno travelled westward over the Red Sea, andfrom £thiopia, b!J
degrees spread themselves over Upper Egypt."•
But Count Volney has collected evidence which appears very credible,
of alliances subsisting in the remoter depths of time, between the mo-
narchs of Yemen or Arabia Felix, (the seats of aboriginal Cushites)-
and the most ancient of the Babylonian kings: which evidence conspires
with the presence of Chepheus and Cushiopeia (whom I promise myself
the .honour of introducing to public notice), and with other proofs af-
forded by thP. cP.IP.Rt.iaJ RphP.rP. and by our. antique cylinders, in esta·
blishing this fact of the ./Ethiopian origin of astronomy-1 shall not say
incontrovertibly, .but with a weight of evidence that will probably be
thought preponderating: unless our enterprising young countrymen who
are reported to have lately penetrated to Saba, should have any thing im-
portant to throw into the alternate scale.
Jn doing myself the honour, Sir, of addressing.the present speculation
to you, I ought not perhaps to dissemble, that the hopes of my pride
have been stimulated by a circumstance to which I have not yet adverted.
I am taught to reckon Sir Henry Englefield and yourself, among the
most sceptical of my antiquarian friends (if I may here presume to use
these words)-! mean the most sceptical in those branches of knowledge
which are involved in the present inquiry: as my subject is unexplored,
unexpected, and far out of the common track, I ought perhaps to antici-
pate that the conviction ofmost readers will be but slow; when, as I pro-
ceed, it shall gradually be perceived that the reasons I adduce, are at
once concentric, and capable of indefinite accumulation, the result may
be expected with more of the confidence of geometricians, than of the
apprehensive anxieties which are attendant on the discoveries of taste.
* Tooke'a Lucian, vol. i. Note to p. 606. In another note the tranalalor adds that, " Lucian
in thia apeech of Pbiloaop)ly, present. the reader with a no leu elegant, than accurately drawn,
outline of her ancient history; which affords a fresh proof of hie, not common erudition; and
deacribeal the progress of the arts that polish life and the refinement of the human race from
one people to another, with historical veracity."
Digitized byGoogle
91
Yet a system of correlative parts, cannot by any human means, be
brought into instantaneous existence. IfI engage to construct an ai"ch,
time must be allowed for the arrangement ofmy materials; for the affixation
of my key-stone; and for the application of that superincumbent weight
which a scientific eye regards as being the surest test of firmness and
durability.-! can say however with the astronomer in Rasselas, that
"Not to be easil!l credited, will neither surprise nor offend me;" and I
to add, that I am no stranger to the worth, or the consciousness, of
that sentiment which on such a subject, prefers beyond all ratio, the .be-
lief that is founded in scepticism, to that which springs from credulity.
Has this latter feeling dictated the selection of the signet from an im-
pression of which was copied the etching which stands at the head of
the present address ?-1 confess that I think this particular cylinder
bears on its face, at least as strong internal evidence of being an antique
astronomical monument, as any other which is likely to appear in the
present work, unless that belonging to Sir William Boughton spould he
excepted. Being for the most part (as I understand it) composed of con-
stellations that have suffered little change or disguise in passing through
the refrangible media of Greece and Rome, it may justly claim to be
garded as more entirely trust-worthy and convincing than its predeces-
sor; and having fortunately escaped damage from chemical decompo-
sition, as well as almost escaped accidental fracture from the blows of
those Arabian pick-axes which have for ages been employed in removing
the bricks of Babylon, aod consequently in the disinterment of these
curious antiques, its engraved contents still appear to shine with a clear
.radiance of primitive truth and simplicity, from amid the scintillations
of clashing authorities; the clouds of doubt; .and the artificial haloes
of national vanity with which our friends the Greek poets and philo-
sophers have surrounded all the barbarian asterisms.
In short, 1 that-excepting a certain pristine antique physiognomy,
which in fact does but assist our conviction of their identity and their
great age,-.A.quarius, Engonasis, Bootes, and the Bear, as displayed on
the present monument, are unequivocally the same which we so fre-
quently see vulgarised on the spheres and stellar charts of modern
M
Digitized byGoogle
92
Europe. And they no less unequivocally prove that we have derived
those constellations from the Chaldeans-and not from the Egyptians ;-
for among the astronomical antiquities of Egypt, I find nothing that can
be pot in competition with them in point of resemblance to the constella-
tions of the modern sphere. Without at present presuming either to con-
trovert, or corroborate, Lucian's opinion, which was also that of Voltaire
and others, that Philosophy came originally from the Bramins of Hin-
dostan, I question whether she proceeded down the Nile, in passing from
..c£thiopia to Babylon.
Concerning the inferences to be drawn throughout these antiquarian
investigations, from the juxta-position of rude simplicity with complex
refinement, in the styles of art that may fall under the view of the
general reader, he must permit me, with our old friend Mat. Prior, to
apprize him that be is not to " look for Versailles," whilst I am shewing
him " Down Hall ;,. and that our present celestial sphere having in the
course of its descent, passed through Greek, and Roman, if not through
Egyptian, versions, we have no right to expect the asterisms of Chaldea,
to·bear any very striking resemblance to those on Senex's or Cary's
globes.
Where, through obscure, and sometimes scanty, premises, we can per-
ceive or infer, enough to establish in our better judgment, the identity of
a constellation or star; we must accept the omen, and learn to be satis-
fied : better satisfied indeed we ought to be, if we see also that attendant
air ofprimitive art of which I have attempted to suggest the idea, than if
we beheld them "trick'd and flounc'd" with our present foppish refine-
ment, sophisticated grace, and irrelevant appendages-Bootes for ex-
ample, of whom J shall first proceed to treat, with his theatrical buskins,
and his anomalouMt club.
It has been well observed by a writer of more sincerity than art, that
" the ancients allude so often, and sometimes so particularly, to the figures
* "I shew'd you Down Hall-Did you look for Versailles ?"-Song by Prior.
t His collared and coupled bounds, which are also a modern addition by Hevelius, are not
liable to the same objection; as we shall presently see that one of the characters in which
Bootes anciently presented himself, was that of a Hunter.
. Digitized byGoogle
93
on their globes in their poems ; that there is no understanding the latter,
without having some acquaintance with the former. This goes so far that
Quintilian, where be is giving instructions how to form his young orator
-after speaking of his reading the Poets, says it is necessary for him to
study astronomy in order to understand them. This (continues the
author of the Polymetis) is become still more necessary at present, for
we have been used not only to be unassisted by the figures of the constel-
lations as they were represented on the ancient globes; but to be misled
too by the figures of them as they are represented on the modem. .For
though the constellations in general are pretty much the same in both ;
yet, either their characters, or dress, or air, or attributes, have been some-
bow or other changed in almost instance, as will easily appear to
any one who would take the trouble of comparing the figures on the
Faroese globe, with those on any of the most received globes among the
moderns. This has been so little regarded hitherto, that on asking some
celebrated mathematicians of our own country, what were the principal
differences between the figures of the constellations on the ancient and
on the modern globes, their constant answer has been that they bad
always imagined that there was not any difference at all."•
Yes, strange as it may seem, notwithstanding their intrinsic interest,
and their importance to chronology and history, sculptured astronomical
monuments, have neither been sought for, nor examined when accidentally
found, with any thing like a sound tact of critical inspection; and the·
changes in almost every instance, that (as Mr. Spence regrets) have been
so little rE>g&rded hitherto; are become to an antiquary, serious and
weighty, but at the same time stimulating, considerations; as they tend
to shew the utility and value of the science which he professes, and are
fraught with important information.
But he bas to labour with little help in tracing the descent ofthe modem
asterisms of the sphere from those of remote antiquity. Since the resus-
citation of the Babylonian signets, we seem to possess the two ends of an
immense and magnificent chain, somewhat resembling that ofJupiter in
* Spence's Polymetia, p. 16-4, folio edit.
M2
Digitized byGoogle
'1
If
, 1
•
: (
94
the Iliad : a chain fashioned from age to age by various art, and by means
of which short sighted human science, had intended to connect systems
of cycles and worlds with each other, if not time with eternity : but where
are the inttlrmediate links? If found at all, they must lie disconnected,
broken, and buried among the ruins of ancient literature and sculpture.
I had not only to dig for them ; but to learn where to dig; and ah ! how:
much to distrust what the scholars had fancied themselves to have turned
up from time to time. In short, the result of my widest and deepest
research into this charmed ground, has been
- " but to know how little could be known ;"
and, to see others faults :-Happy if the wisdom to feel my own
could also have reached me.
But, Sir, you will not suppose, that in asserting the necessity-the
priety, at least-of antiquarian scrupulosity, I am putting in a claim for
moral wisdom.
In either view, it may be thought that in adverting to this masterpiece
o( modern moral poetry, I might, with propriety, or without reproach,
have gone one verse further back, and addressed you in the words of
Pope's apostrophe to Bolingbroke; but I would not be misinterpreted, ·
or run the hazard of being thought capable even of misprision of flattery :
and you will perceive that my subject rendered it incumbent on me to
attempt something like a critical genealogical examination of the constel-
lations-as far as the regretted scantiness of our documents would allow
-before I could claim homage for my kings, and veneration for my
patriarchs, of the original sphere.
Working " my little bark" upward on this exploratory voyage, against
the stream of time, I soon arrived at Dr. Long's mention of the Syntagma
Arateorum o( Grotius. He says, "The most ancient pictures we have of
them (the constellations) are those published out of an ancient manu- •
script by Grotius : but these, (be justly observes,) though venerable for
their antiquity, are by no means agreeable to the originals in the heavens:
As for the figures printed in some editions of Hyginus, the designers of
Digitized byGoogle
96
them see!b to have foiJowed their own fancies in delineating them with-
out any regard to the descriptions of the author.,.
On perusing the former part of this respecting the" Syntagma"
of Grotius, my hopes beat somewhat high ; but, being favoured with a
sight of the book, I soon perceived that our Cambridge professor, 1\nd
even the learned Batavian himself to a certain extent, had been led into
error, and that these asterisms, excepting that they are far better engraven,
(by De Gheyn) were not a whit more authentic than those which be de-
cries in the work of Hyginus. In fact, in the best edition of Hyginus
that I have met with, (which I found in the library of that acute and
learned antiquary Mr. Francis Donee,) the constellations are copied from
these very engravings in the Syntagma of Grotius, which shews how much
the editor of Hyginus was at a loss on this important point.
What does Grotins write of these asterisms? That they are the
images of the stars of Germanicus and Aratus, and are taken from a
manuscript (I suppose be means a written book containing also pen and
ink drawings) in the Jibrary ofJacob Susius, Lord of Grysenoordt; alld
that be greatly respects them on account of their antiquity. Why does
be not mention what be supposed might be their antiquity?-He respects
them "on account of their antiquity, ·their expression of old scbemt>s,
and other not trivial causes :" stating at the same time, that be sees they
are utterly wrong with regard to the situation and disposition, both of the
whole constellations and of the particular stars.t Whoever attentively
considers these paHsages, which I believe will be found to be faithfully
translated from the author's Latin, will perceive that, on the main points,
they contain no evidence; and the internal evidence of the engravings
themselves, is entirely against their admission.
As Grotius kne\v so much else, we have no right to inHist on his being
a judge of style of design: bad he possessed this judgment, he would
have perceived that the pen and ink drawings in question, were of the art
of Germany or Low Countries, and performed soon after the time
that the artists of those parts of the continent, in emancipating their style
• P. 173, cb. 2, of Lonf'a Astronomy. t See bia Preface, Table of Contents, and the
article " Hugeiaoi Grotii Nota: ad Imagines," p. SO.
Digitized byGoogle
'·
I
from its Gothic angularity and stiffness, began habitually to visit Italy
for improvement. I suspect them to be by the senior Goltzius, (Hubert,)
who followed thi1 course of study ; who was a man of science, and an
antiquary; and who, dying at Bruges, at the age of 67, in the year 1583,
might have drawn these figures to illuminate Germanicus's translation of
the Phenomena, for an ancestor (perhaps the father or grandfather) of
the Lord of Grysenoordt.
Nor are these Batavian engravings, by any means the most ancient
representations that are now extant of the constellations. The oldest
figures of the coostellations that I have met with, executed since the
revival of learning, are in that edition of the Astronomical Poets of
Greece and Rome which was printed by Aldus in the year 1499: wher&o
as the Syntagma Arateorum of Grotius, did not appear till rather more
than a century afterwards. They are wood cuts, very rudely executed,
and from no assigned authority.-The engraver appears to have hastily
perused Aratos or his translator, and to have designed his constellations
as he ignorantly conceiTed them, taking a sort ofuncouth care to place a
black asterisk, where the poet has mentioned a star of magnitude or of
superior splendour.
No great blame, however, can attach to him who honestly does his
beet. If no ancient authorities were known to exist in the fifteenth cen-
tury, none could be copied or named. If those planispheres, which are
now extant under the name of Ptolemy, are genuine ;• they, as well as
the Farnesian globe, may be of subsequent resuscitation. Concerning
these points l must profess uncertainty. But, under such a disjointed
and imperfect state of succession, it will not be thought passing strange,
if some of the figures on the cylinders of ancient Babylon, should be
found to bear more resemblance to those on the best> modem globes, than
these of Aldus or than those of Grotius. More accurate attention to the
descriptions of the classic poets and astronomers, and to the actual
places of the stars, when united to better drawing, would of course <'On-
• I do not auppoae they are genuine. They are vaguely inscribed " delineated according
to Ptolemy;,. are without date ; but were engraven I believe about the middle of the reign of
Geo. II.
Digitized byGoogle
97
duce to the production of this resemblance, the same celestial pheno-
mena being in both cases the archetypes; and it is particularly observable
in the .Engonasis, or kneeling figure of the present gem, (ofwhich I shall
treat in a subsequent page:) the chief diJfereuce in this asterism being,
that the moderns have placed him with his head downward, or in a con-
trary direction from those of his companions ; whereas on the cylinder
his figure ranges with those of Bootes, Aquarius, and the rest.
Notwithstanding that in the above Aldus the constellations are far
more grossly figured than we now find the ornaments on the commonest
Dutch clock, and are cut by some vulgar artist-if such he might be
called-to suit the text of the poet, according to his own crude and vulgar
notions; yet some ofthem, as well as the engravings in the work ofGrotius,
-strange to tell-have been copied as sanctioned examples, upon
quent occasions. Surely it is high time for an honest statement, that so
little observation of form and relative situation of parts, has been possessed
by some ofthe leading authorities among the etymological literati: so for-
ward have they been to press the semblance ofgraphic art into their ser-
vice; and so ready to grasp at the caput mortuum of antiquarian research,
while the spirit was exhaling in the beat of ostentatious disputation.
How different from all this, Sir, have been the exemplary publications
of the society of Dilletanti since you have been concerned in them, can-
not be necessary to be stated, where those publications have been seen. A
more accurate age of investigation than we have just passed, wiJl not fail
to perceive with surprise and regret, how meretriciously Mr.JacobBryant,
Dr. Hyde, and others, have" restored"• (as they term it), and in so doing,
* I much question whether the public is sufficiently aware of, and l am sure it js not suffi-
ciently attentive to, tbe difference between restoring, u the Dilletanti society has restored, the
Greek temples from authentic materials, sought for and found on the several classic
spots where the ruin• of tboae temples stand : and restoring from the fancy of a wen or ill
informed draftsman (u tbe case may happen) dictated to by a scholar who hu a fuourite
hypothesis to sustain. The wretchedly-etched trumpery-the anonymous misrepresentations
-of the Rev. Mr. Faber, to which be hu endeavoured to obtain the favourable attention of the·
public, by the extrinsic means of dedicating them to learned prelates aud distinguished states..
men, are even worse than the restorations of Bryant and Hyde•.
Digitized byGoogle
98
defaced, Yulgarised, or falsified, almost eYery antique they have touched ;
and how others have confounded the crude conceptions of a cinqu&-eento
wood-carver of slender attainments, with the abstruse mysteries of an-
cient astronomy; at once acknowledging, and deteriorating the value of,
a species of evidence, which when compared with the pranks and vaga-
ries of etymological research-Research! should we call it? (as this
verbal harlequinadery is sometimes carried on)-Etymological announce-
ment, rather-is as revealed truth to the very essence of equivocation.
I know that the learned scholars that I have named, and others whom I
could name, have long since been placed in their niches as men of erudi-
tion. They are our friends: but Sincerity "is our sister:" and I am
much mistaken if it should any longer be dissembled, that it bas been by
far too much the custom of this class of writers, to enter the sacred
enclosures of ART, without due reverence for the sanctity and purity of
its truths. They find her paradise open, and toward her tree of know-
ledge they rush, combining more than the temerity, with less than the
excuse,. of our first parent. They devour more of its fruit than they can
digest, and canker and bruise more than they can devour. As nothing
can be easier than by such means to infuse the colour of a preconceived
hypothesis: so nothing in the present state of the science of antiquarian
investigation, when the public attention is laudably directed towards the
topography and the ancient attainments of older nations than our own, is
more seriously to be deprecated.
Reports of the Arabian or Cufic sphere of the Borgian museum, next
engaged my attention, and for a while animated my antiquarian hopes.
But upon turning to the quarto by Toaldi and Assemanno, it soon ap-
peared that this sphere was not of the indigenous astronomy of Arabia,
but was derivedjrMA the Grecian sphere; and that it bore date 622 of the
Hegira, which carries us uo further back than into the fifteenth century of
our own era. Still however, it must be regarded as a valuable curiosity,
and it has some few peculiarities about it, that are probably ofArabian ori-
gin. These will be noticed when my subject shall so require. Its figured
constellations are rather grotesque than Arabesque: but the principal
Digitized byGoogle
99
stars ·are indiVidually specified. The Cambridge professor has either not
known of this Arabian sphere or not thought it worthy of notice....:...most
likely the former.
The Fameaian globe, which it must be my business to treat of next,
appears also to have escaped the resea-rches of Dr. Long. Of the date
of its production, we know no more than may be gathered or guessed at,
from circumstances connected with its own internal light; which how-
ever will bring us at the farthest within a century or so of the mark :
though I submit to your critical acumen, that, in estimating it, Count
Volney or his astronomical friend M. Nouet, has been somewhat too
niuch in haste to jump to a conclusion.
He says that, (for a purpose which he assigns), "we must have re-
course to zodiacs more ancient than the time of Ptolemy. We find cme
incontestably so: it is that of the Atlas of Faroese (thus called from its
possessor) of which Passere has given us the figure"-and of which
Bentley inserted a copy in his Manilius.-" The zodiac of this Atlas be-
longs to times prior to Ptolemy, since the colure of the vernal equinox
passes through the fore-horn of Aries."•
Now, Passere's copy I have not seen: neither have I seen the original:
but ac<'ording to the engraving by Boitard, which appears in the Poly-
metis of Spence, (and which is better than Bentley's) the colore does not
pass through the fore-horn of Aries: it only just touches that horn, and
touches it so as to divide this sign specifically from Pisces, even as any
sculptor would now divide it, who wished to represent the popular
zodiac : no more seems here to be intended,-at least, we cannot be sore
that more is intended,-since no degrees are marked, and no stars are
introduced ; and we still in our popular astronomy begin our enumera-
tion of the twelve asterisms of the zodiac, with the sign Aries, notwith-
standing that since it was the true place of the equinox, more thaa two
thousand years have rolled away and the colore has moved through the
whole of the 30° that are assigned to Pisces. The solstitial colures of the
Faroesian zodiac, which in Boitard's print form the boundary lines of the
• .Col. Corbet'• Tranalation of Volney'• Researches on Ancient Hietory, vol. ii. p. 450, 51.
.N
. :- . ..
Digitized byGoogle
·..
100
two hemispheres, are, in like manner, quite clear of the asterisms Cancer
and Capricorn.
Had the places of the colures been any where else in this monument, it
would have shewn that the moveable zodiac of the scholars, had been in
the artist's view: it would have marked astronomical precision ; and it
would have deserved and obtained credit with posterity. But there is
no astronomical precision in this monument. The French philoRophers
have pointed out some inaccuracies with regard t9 the paws and head
of the sign Leo; the backs of many of the human constellations are,
without reason or known authority, (even contrary to the authority of
Aratus,) turned toward the spectator ; the Pisces Australis, though it be
of the forty-eight antique constellations, and notwithstanding it contains
the star Fomalhaut of the first magnitude, is entirely omitted; and the
stream from the situla ofAquarius instead of ending at the fish's mouth,
turns eastward and ends at the tail of Ketus ; beside which, the Farne-
sian globe contains 80 many other inaccuracies, as much to deteriorate
its value as an astronomical monument, even though it should be proved
to belong to the era when the colore of the vernal equinox began. to enter
the constellation Piscea. In short it is, and was clearly intended to be,
no more than the accompaniment, or adjunct, to a statue of Atlas; and is
apparently the work of some Roman sculptor of no great merit, and who
was but indifferently well informed concerning the constellations. Nei-
ther probably, is its assigned date very far from the truth; or its true
date tar from the time of Ptolemy: Ptolemy died about a century and a
half after our and the vernal colore moved into Pisces a little mor(>
than two centuries before. After this brief statement of my sentiments of
the Farnesian sphere, the references which I shall occasionally make to
it, will not be unduly appreciated.
Having premised thus much, I shall soon, to the best of my ability,
Sir, proceed to submit my explanatory endeavours: But no man rushes
into a temple, save him who seeks refuge; due reverence and the requisite
concentration of thought, demanding from all but the impious, at least a
moment's pause in the vestibule. If Plutarch in esHaying to explain the
ancient mysteries of Egypt, felt it necessary as well to advert to the diffi-
culties that opposed themselves to his progress, as to breathe the warm
,.
Digitized byGoogle
101
hope which animated him to the tas)t, this is nearly con-
cluded, may well be thought imperative on me, ere I presume into the.
Sabrean heavens.
The present monument, like the majority of those Cbaldean cylinders.
which have been brought to England, is engraved on an We
are indebted for it to the euterprise of the learned secretary to the Council
ofthe College at FortWilliam, in Bengal, (Capt. Abraham Lockett,) who
himself brought it from the site of ancient Babylon, and placed it in my
hands. As the devices of these cylinders revolve into themselves in ren-
dering their impressions, and as such of them as are without verbal in-
scriptions are also without lines of demarkation, I must be allowed to
assume that in impressing them with a view to their explication, I have
begun with them severally in the right places. It bas often cost me more
time aod study to ascertain this, than may possibly be supposed; yet I
may in some instances have been wrong: wherefore this point must al-
ways be understood as being submitted to the reader's cognizance, to be
-examined by him together with the details of their engraved contents.
Count Volney informs us that the ancients took such asterisms as they
found at any given time upon the circle of the horizon, and formed them
into significant groups.• That they formed the asterisms which were
at those given times above the horizon, into such groups, may be shewn;
but the same antiques which would this fact-the present
cylinder is one of them-prove also that they did not take such asterisms ·
as were "upon the circle of the horizon." I am Jed to imagine that in
the primitive astronomy, more habitual reference was had than at pre-
*See note 95, p. 188, of the English translation (td edit. Johnaon) ofhia "Su"ey uf theRe-
volutions of Empirea." philosopher baa been complimented by Gibbon and otben for ve-
racity and judgment: nor should it detract too much from these general merits, or from the
praise which baa been more especially bestowed on his topographical obse"ation1, that in the
instance which be here produces as evidence of his asserted fact : he i1 rather romantic and
ftighty; than astronomical, orjudicious, or in any respect critical. He even talks ofOphiucus
and the polar Dragon occupying the zenith at the same time : namely when Virgo sinks and
Peneus rises-a time when no atar of either of these asterisms, occupies thia station in the
Egyptian latitudes. But if Volney exhibits on some occasions the glare of a meteor; he shines
on others with the clear and lasting light of a planeL
N2
Digitized by Google
'
102
sent, to the ·zenith, and to those imaginary armillary lines or vertical
circles passing through it and through the nadir, which, from the Arabian
nomenclature of the science, are termed azimuths : and that hence, 011
the present cylinder, as well as on several others, we find the asterisms re-
presented as traversing the upper hemiatphere from opposite points of the
horizon-but passing across it obliquely with regard to the meridian and
the ecliptic.-The Sabrean gems in this respect vary, but probably vary
on principle: sometimes they exhibit only the rising and setting aate-
risms ; sometimes their engraved contents commence with constellations
eastward of north, and pass across the upper hemisphere to those west-
ward of south, or in the opposite part of the horizon : at others-as in
the instance before us-·they reach from the constellations which are set-
ting westward of the arctic pole, toward those which are simultaneously
rising in the south-eastern quarter of the heavens: and again at others,
following, or nearly so, the course of the Suo; when they consequently
consist of such as are zodiacal :-but this latter may perhaps
take place, because, when at or near the season of the solstice, the ecliptic
rises so high in the heavens (or so far northward) that the zenith itself is
in the zodiac, in all latitudes between those of Babylon and the southern
extreme of lEthiopia.
The record of Diodorus Siculus, that the Babylonian astronomers from
their lofty observatory exactly noted the rising and the setting stars, is
more to our purpose than the assertion of Volney: yet since all stars
rise and set, Diodorus should have known and explained that, by rising
and setting stars must be understood what are now termed " the poetical
risings and settings :" which is to say-the stars that, as the seasons
varied, rose and set simultaneously with each other and with the Sun, or
when sufficiently clear of the rays of that luminary to be distinctly
visible.
These are termed poetical risings and settings, because, the earliest
mention of them is to be met with in the Greek poets; who as we have
seen from Herodotus, were the astrologers also of that early period.
And they are mentioned by the poets as unerring signs of the approaching
seasons, because they were previously regarded as by the astrooo-
Digitized byGoogle
103
mical priesthood of Chaldea and Egypt. It is with this fact, on which
the poetry is founded, that we have to do at present.
Milton has taken care to express, what Diodorus would not even be
understood to have implied, but for collatt>ral light: He says, the great
Cr(>8tor
" Taught the fix'd their inftuence;
Which of them rising WITH TB'B SuN, orfaUing,
Should prove tempestuous :"-
The learned Sicilian being thus understood, I may venture to antici-
pate the final acknowledgment of the reader that, no far distant point of
antiquarian research bas been developed and ascertained in a more grati-
fying manner, than the bearing of this historical rt>Cord on the engraved
truths which I shall have the honour to set before him.
The oldt>st of the cylinders appear to have been executed before that
superior importance was attached to the stars of the zodiac which so uni-
versally prevails at present, and which has so long prevailed : and we
may here obsene that Diodorus, in terming the zodiacal asterisms the
chief of the gods, appears to ·have mingled what he knew in
a vague and cursory way, of the doctrines of the Chaldeans, as those
doctrines were current in his own age and country, with what he had
read of those of tmperior antiquity; and as this writer· notwithstanding
his learning, was credulous and uncritical, we may the more regret the
loss of the Assyria of Herodotus, and the paucity of detailed historical
* "Under the course ofthe planets, they (the Chaldeans) tay are thirty stars (constellations)
which they call Coruuelling Godl, half of whom observe what is done under the earth, and the
other half take notice of the actions of upon the earth, and of what is transacted in the
heavens. Once every ten days space, (they say) one of the highest order ofthese stars de•cenda
to them that are of the lowest, like a messenger sent from them above ; and then again another
ascends from thoac below to them above ; and that this is their constant natural motion to con-
tinue for ever. The chief of these gods, they say, are twelve in number, to each of which they
attribute a month, and one sign of the twelve in the zodiac."-Booth's Diodonu Siculru, b. ii.
p. 70. The number of these " Counselling Gods" of Diodorus, does not agree with tbat of the
ancient conatellationa : and by no adaptation of the pre11ent contents ofour sphere, could one of
these have regularly sunk beneath the horizon every ten day11.-Beside, SO times 10 would have
left the year short by more than 65 days: and ir I'l descended in a year, how could of the
80 descend every 10 days? Again, the more ancient Chaldeans are generally said to have di-
vided their zodiac into eleven conatellationa only.
Digitized byGoogle
•
104
information concerning the more ancient dogmata of the Sabean
hood. There is however, a remarkable conformity, between our antique
cylindrical monuments and the earlier poets, prophets, and astronomers,
with regard to the comparative veneration, ia which the extra-zodiacal
asterisms were held in the remoter periods of time: and the impressive
coincidence at which we here arrive, between the art and the literature
of far distant ages and nations-between that practice of the Chaldean
astronomers which may be safely inferred from the present and other of
tbe more ancient of the cylindrical engravings; and that habitual obser-
vation of the stars which is recorded of the patriarclis, prophets, and
philosophers, of the sacred scriptures and of Greece,-1 repeat, the im-
pressive coincidence between these, at which we here arrive,-is probably
the best of all evidence that is now attainable, on a subject ao remote in
time and place, and so recondite in its nature.
That the extra-zodiacal asterisms ttJere thus anxiously regarded of old:
that is to say were as much to for the omens or signals of which
the ancient Sabmans were in quest, as those which lie within the path of
the Sun, may be known (to those who believe the scriptural astronomy
to be correctly translated) from certain passages in the books of Amos,
leaiah and Job; from those precepts of Hesiod which refer to " Orion
and the Dog;,.. from Ulysses in the Odyssey being directed to steer by
., the Bear;" and from Hippocrates directing the attention of his readers
and patients to the heliacal risings of Sirius and Arcturus ;t ofwhich a&-
terisms, none are zodiacal•
It may further be observed, in connecting these observations with the
subject of the present engraving, that notwithstanding it contains five
figures, but a single one of them is zodiacal, and that is accidentally so,
and apparently in consequence of the circles of Azimuth that are engaged
in it, happening to pass across and give horoscopical significance to some
'Of the stars of Aquarius.
I should apologise, Sir, for detaining you so long from the details of
this interesting little monument, but you probably perceive that the
length of my preamble has proceeded from the early station in my work
* In his ., Worb and l>!.ys." t In bia book De
Digitized byGoogle
•
105
to which this essay is destined ; and from that desire to connect general,
with particular, consideration.;;, which must be common to every writer
who endeavours to render his publication useful or interesting.
Like the Grecian horoscope which is the subject of my third essay, it
appears to be an hieroglyphical record ·of the native stars of that-indi•
vidual who was privileged to use it as his signet, or customary pledge of
faith and of honour. His birth was nocturnal, as I shall here assume for
the sake of perspicuity ; and the moon was not above the horizon at the
time-or at least was not visible.
If then the celestial globe be rectified, and the pole elevated·to
latitude of Babylon, which is nearly 33° North; and ·if the star of the first
magnitude, since called Fomalhaut,-which I shall eventually shew to be.
the south-eastern boundary of the present horoscope-be brought jo8t
above the horizon, a series of constellations which correspond with the
engraved contents of the cylinder,. will be seen to pass across the sphere
in the direction already stated : that is to say-as nearly as the cylift-
drical form, could adapt itself to that of the hemisphere and to the irre-
gular forms and stations of the asterisms, and supposing them to have
then existed nearly as at form a sort of diagonal semi-zone.
Contrary to the usual order of modern geographical charts, and contrary
to our usual habit of perusing such diagramatical exhibitions as bear
relation to the cardinal points of the compass (which is a merely arbi-
trary matter) but, conformably to what has in every age been the generat
usage of astrologers, the South pole of the horoscopical device is here
supposed to be upward.
It will easily be perceived that under these circumstances of the sphere,
Bootes is far declined, and Ursa Major is setting: the stars Lamb(la and
Mu in. his hinder paw, just reaching the North-western horizon, as that
of Fomalhaut ascends fr()m the opposite quarter of the heavens.
I shall beg leave to begin to submit my reasons for identifying our.·
antique figures (or rather the stars which they were supposed to circum-
scribe) with tbose of the modern constellations-at these -Northern as--
terisms: presuming, that should classical authorities of sufficient weight,,
be found to run parallel, or nearly so, to the settled truths of astrono...
Digitized byGoogle
106
mical science, and to the courses of the eternal stars themselves, I shall
-have proceeded far toward ascertaining the nature,· and dett-rmining the
high antiquarian value, of these interesting cylindrical gems, so long the
object of important and unsatisfied curiosity among the dilletanti of
Europe; and in so doing shall have raiaed my feeble voice in favour of
restoring to Babylon, if not to the oriental £tbiopia, the heir-looms of her
ancient scientific attainment.
The general reader will here permit me to remind him as he looks at
the etcbiug which I have prefixed to the present Essay, that Bootes is
sometimes called by that name, meaning the herdsman, rustic, or hus-
bandman; and at others Arcto-pbylax, or the Bear-keeper. Either or
both of these early Greek denominations, have much more pertinent ap-
plication to our Chaldean figure, than to his modem substitute. This
may be seen at a glance.-On his head he weal's a mitre or lofty cap,
which being turbanned across his forehead, somewhat resembles a Tur-
kish or Arabian head-dress: but it resembles also that of the Hebrew
priesthood'as ordained by Moses, which in all probability is of Chaldean,
or Arabian, derivation. The scale of the gem itself is so minute, that it
were hard 1lo say whether the body of this figure down to the waist is
meant to be represented as being naked, or habited in the jerkin of a pea-
sant: but around his waist there is evidently a girdle, and a part of his
dress depending from it, and reaching nearly to his knees: probably it
may be the Asiatic tunic of which Mr. Thomas Hope has given a repre-
sentation in the 6th plate of his valuable book on the " Costume of the
Ancients."-ln his right hand is his pastoral staff, the same which he is
still seen to bold as represented on some of the modern spheres : but it
has the peculiarity of being barbed at the upper extremity, and it is here
remarkable, that Eusebius, quoting an ancient oracle which has apparent
l'eference to this constellation, as formerly represented, writes-
" A myatic goad the mountain berdaman bean."
The left hand of our herdsman grasps the handle, as it appears to me,
of some smaller agricultural implement. Modem astronomy bas in some
instances rendered it a falx or sickle, but from the angular form of what
Digitized byGoogle
107
remains ·over his shoulder (for the handle is exceedingly small in the
Iinder, and rendered somewhat ambiguous by age,) has perhaps been a
hoe; which as it is the most simple, is presumptively the most ancient, of
the manual instruments of husbandry. Mr. Bowdich, in his " Mission tQ
Ashantee," writes that the hoe is still the onl!J implement used in cultiva-
tion by some of the nations of Africa. But if this asterism be as
authors have supposed, (and as I merely hint, for the present,) the
of Egypt under the Greek name Bootes,I should then imagine the imp
ment resting against his left shoulder, to be that instrument or symbol, ge-
nerallyunderstood to be ofrepulsion, which on the monumentsofEgypt ap-
pears to be intended for a scourge; or perhaps a flail ;• or a winnowing van.
Immediately before our Chaldean figure, is the Bear (evidently intended
for that animal, and by no means ill drawn) from which he obtained
his epithet Arctophylax : and over his left shoulder, is an eight-pointed
asterisk, which must be intended either for the conspicuous and brilliant
star Arcturus of the first magnitude; or else (and as I rather think) for
the important star of the North pole since denominated Cynosura, which
still beams, though at a considerable distance, from above the shoulder
of Bootes.
The reasons on both sides may be found not unworthy of a little con-
sideration. Modern astronomy, without a standard in these matters,
and therefore but too much exposed.to innovations, has placed Arcturus
in some instances within,_ in others very near, the girdle of Bootes, and
again in others at a short distance before his left knee : but we learn
from Aratus, who is reported to have poetized in his " Phenomena" the
sphere of Eudoxus, that this splendid star there stood alone, forming in
the beauty of its brightness, a constellation by itself; words, which though
grammatically incorrect, may nevertheless be astronomically true: for
several of those brilliant spots in the heavens, which simple unassisted
vision regards but as single stars, the telescope bas shewn to be clustt>rs.
However I here use the term constellation in a practical sense, and in
• I since observe that both Mr. Christie and Dr. Prichard, who appear to have atudied the
mystic aymbols with great attention, pronounce this to be the Van; 01' winnowing implement
of Egypt; but Denon calls it a Scourge.
0
Digitized byGoogle
100
conformity with a passage of Aratus, at which we shall presently arrive.
·on the other hand, in favour of the claims which will probably be
found to preponderate on the whole-of this eight-pointed asterisk to be
regarded as the Pole-star-and collaterally in favour also of the remote
date of our miniature monument-is the well ascertained fact that in the
lligher periods of antiquity, but a single Bear appeared on the celestial
sphere. Homer mt>ntions but one. Anacreon (as translated by Fawkes)
wiites-in strict conformity with the representation before us,
-"Strong Bootes urged Bear."
Of the lesser Bear, the knowledge was introduced into Greece from
Phomicia, by Thales; who according to HerodotuN, was himself in fact of
Phmnician origin. It is true, Thales and Anacreon were living at the
same time: but we are not to suppose that the indolent votary of music,
love, and wine, cared to make himself imtnediattl!J acquainted with the
discoveries of barbarian astronomers. By the time we arriYe at the age
and the sphere of Eudoxus, we find an express ackuowledgment of the
existence of two celestial Bears : Aratus mentions both, and with them
mentions Arcturus, as I have noticed above; and also both the Greek
appellations of the constellated figure by whom the Bears are followed,
with the reasons for their being conferred-as far as those reasons wE're
known to, or were not disguised by, the Grecian poets and astronomt>rs.
As, unhappily for the task I have here undertaken, I am no scholar, I
shall beg leave, for the convenience of the general reader, as well as on
the score of my own deficiency, to cite the verses of Aratus as they have
beea rendered into English by Mr. Thomas Noble, the English trans-
lator also of the Argonautica of Apollonius Rhodius.
'' Behind the greater Bear, with rustic mien,
Arctopbylax, their keeper, next is seen:
By men Bootea named, for he appean
To drive those waggon forms we term tM Bear1 :
Bright bia whole figure : but beneath hil cone,
One atar, by ita appropriate lustre known,
Arcturus,-with no other star combines ;.
But, in itself a conatellatioo, sWnea.H
Digitized byGoogle
109
The truth appears to be that the real origin, if not the primitive Baby•
Ionian names, of these arctic asterisms, were alike unknown to Homer
and to Aratus-at least, if some of the names were known, the reason•
of their being conferred, were not.-They were not to Homer, or (as your
tasteful friend Mr. Uvedale Price has remarked on another occuion) he
would certainly have told them, and they.would have been repeated by
Aratus ; nor would either of these poets have left us to doubt or deter-
mine between Bear, and waggon.-And, as to the classical legends of
later date, I need scarcely remark, that they are unsatisfactory, and at
variance with each other-In short, are palpable fables, inconsistent with
the celestial appearances, and even with themselves: and too grossly
fabricated to call for much refutation. However, a word or two, we may
bestow.-
For these constellations to have belonged to the story of lcarius and
Erigone, the bear should have been a dog, and the virgin Erigone, should
_have grouped with her father; certainly she should not have been so dis-
connected from him, as is the sign Virgo from Bootes. That of Calisto
and Areas, which Ovid has told in his Fasti, appears to be somewhat
more pertinent; yet to have agreed with our gem, or with the modern
spheres, Bootes should have been a beardless youth, and should have
wielded a hunter's javelin.
"For when ber aon altain'd hia,NlMIIA year,
He in bia bunting, met bia mother :
She atopp'd aa if ebe recogniz'd her eon;
And would have epoke, but abe could only groan :
A sudden d4rl the youth aurpriled had thrown,
And kill'd hia parent, tho' to him unknown:
But Jove in pity, raiaed them quick on bigb,
And placed their bodies in the 1tarry aky.
Conjoin'd on earth, he would not there
Their conatellationa."•-
I can have no right however, to push the classic poets rudely, or too
far, toward the point of responsibility. Some of the variations in their
* Tranalation, b. jj, ver. il7, &c.
o2
r
Digitized byGoogle
1\
I
' I
I I'
I :
p
j I
ll
'
''
I
I '
I
' .
; .
I
\
: t
110
accounts of these astronomical legends, may liave proceeded from the
imperfections that are incident to early efforts in the imitative arts. .For
example, it cannot excite our surprise, that in the infancy of art, qtiad·
rupeds should be so ill sculptured, as in some instances to render it
doubtful whether a Bear, Boar, Dog, Tyger, or Cynocephalus, was in-
tended by the artist. Is there not then reason to suppose that in the
more ancient planispheres (of whatever nature they were) the celestial
Bears might sometimes be so ill defined as to be occasionally mistaken
for the above animals? Or vice-versa: for in truth, I possess an example
where an ape is the representative of the lesser Bear; and the appellation
of one of its stars that which so proudly specifies the northern pole--can
only be accounted for on the that this ape was, ou some an-
cient and standard occasion, represented with the tail of a dog.-But the
Bear of the present hrematite is sufficiently explicit.
·I feel conscious that I am here at the very nadir of the sphere of my
antiquarian aspirations; yet here I shall take a station in favour of astro-
nomical sculpture. I have dwelt the longer, and with the less reluctance,
even on these dubious points of minor importance; because, compared
with such unchangeable records as the antiques that are now before us
when taken with the relations which I flatter myself I shall be able ·to
establish between them and the celestial phenomena; poetry, and such
verbal mythology as that of Mr. Jacob Bryant and his school-" dart
furtive beams and glory not their own."-Sculpture, when even at the
very worst, is less illusive evidence than sounds derived from those re-
mote ages when language was merely vocal.-" Words (says Dr. John-
son) are the daughters ofEarth, but things are the sons ofHeaven!"-How
applicable this, and more especially the latter member of the sentence, to
our Sabreau engravings when regarded as the legitimate progeny of the
primitive astronomy ! the pliant playthings of scholars must bow down
before the stubborn facts of fine art and the majesty ofscience, when thus
iudelibly·recorded. And, when truly interpreted-when we shall be
able thoroughly to decypher and understand the engraved hieroglyphics
of Assyria, the story of Babel and confusion, will seem but an ancient
prophecy fulfilled in the literary babble of modern times.
Digitized byGoogle
IU.
It must be allowed that the learned iu words-the etymological my..·
thologists-have been at great pains to establish the identity of Osiris-
with the Sun. Others at no less cost of time, ink, and solicitude, bot
with better success, would persuade us that he was in reality no other
than the patriarch Noah : or that be was Bacchus, lswara, Thammuz,.
Adonis, Janus ; or that he was all of t.hese, Bootes having been inadver-
tently left to be now called forth from his Babylonian sepulchre, by an
humble and unlearned individual.
How little would it be to the credit of the modes of research adopted
by the Bryant school, should there always have existed circums.tances
respecting the identity of Osiris with other mythological personages, to.
which they have never adverted; and which, being founded on the mathe-
matics and the stellar motions, are irrefragable and unvarying in their-
nature.
I think there are such circumstances, and that they are intimately
nected with those mystic ceremonies, and those lamentations for the lost.
Osiris, Tbammuz, or Adonis, on which the literati have so frequently
dwelt, detailing every local particular with great apparent exactness-
save and except those very astronomical phenomena which should mosl
have engaged their attention.
Of this often told story. the version of the Rev. Mr. Faber is more brief
than most, and as clear and explicit as any; unless we should except·
the more detailed account of Dr. Prichard. In celebrating the mys-
teries of Osiris or Thammuz, Mr. Faber says, "the god was at .first be-
wailed as one dead, and after a certain time bad been allowed to elapse,
his supposed restoration to life was celebrated with most riotous mirth.
and most frantic acclamations. To these rites we have frequent allusions.
in scripture, for they prevailed in Palestine as much as in .Egypt; the·
women who wept for Thammuz, bewailed the dead Osiris or Adonis.',.
This " certain time" of the absence of Osiris, has been variously spe-.
ciJied ; as if it were uncertain time in the knowledge or opinion of its re-.
porters. The truth is, that, it bas really undergone some variation from:.
* Classical Journal for March, p. 1.2•.
Digitized by Google
112
age to age, owing, as I shall explain hereafter, to the precession of 1be
equinoxes ; and bas varied still more, on account of the difference of the
latitudes of the various countries where the mysteries were celebrated.
Having been thus variously specified without advertence to the causes,
the majority ofthose gentlemen who have treated the subject, have chosen
to allude to the time occupied in general terms. I observe, Sir, that, on
the authority of Theophilus, your " Inquiry" states that the Osiris of
Egypt was supposed to be dead or absent, forty days in each year, during
which the people lamented his Joss, as the Syrians did that of Adonis:
and I shall in the sequel shew that this. period has reference to the lati-
tude of the reputed birth-place of Osiris, (that is, the place of his intro-
duction into Egypt) as well as some relation to the more southerly lati-
tudes ofthose Saba!an, or Troglodytical tribes who, according to the"An-
cient Universal History," and to Bruce and his authorities, were the de-
scendants of the patriarch Cosh, and the first conquerors, or the founders,
ofthe very ancient city ofThebes.
On the subject of the early migrations of the Cushites, and their pro-
gress in astronomical science, the two first chapters of the second book
of Bruce's travels, may be read with plea1mre and advantage: but not
with implicit faith. The historical notices of Bruce, should be compared
with the geography, the genealogies, and the chronology, ofVolney's
Researches." For our present purpose, it may be sufficient to men-
tion that, the two learned travellers agree with regard to the remote anti-
quity and Cushite extraction, of the lEthiopians : but, while the former
supposes that Cush and his family migrated to Astaboras and the eastern
shores of Africa, by the way of Egypt; the latter conducts them by a
more south-easterly, and more probable, route-peopling the Arabian
peninsula and crossing the Red Sea, previous to their invasion of Egypt.
I feel some little surprise-though perhaps I ought not-that learned
gentlemen who have literall!J deluged philosophy and free inquiry, with
their incessant references to Noah's flood and his miraculous preserva-
tion, have omitted to notice the circumstance, that forty days is precisely
the time, as recorded in Genesis, that the waters were pouring down
upon the earth, and it was at the distance of forty days after the ark
Digitized by Google
113
grounded on Ararat, that Noah is stated to have sent forth the dove.
These coincidences are certainly worthy of being remembered, and I
shall return to important considerations that are connected therewith, in
the course of those speculations on the Osirian mysteries, which have
grown out of my Sabman researches; and more especially out of my
study of the present gem.
Further, the authors of the" Ancient Universal History" state, that "it
is remarkable that the day assigned by Moses for the beginniog of the
deluge, agrees exactly with the day wherein Plutarch tells us that Osiris
went into the ark, viz. the 17th of Athyr, which month is the second after
the autumnal equinox, the sun then passing through Scorpins; nor does
it differ above a day or two, from that set down by Berosus."-But, as
learned commentators vary so widely as to "the day assigned by Moses,"
and as to the commencement of the antediluTian year; and as I do not
find that the sun was, or could have been, in Scorpios, the second month
after the autumnal equinox-! shall not here Tenture on the revisal of a
computation which might carry us too protractedly away from our pro-
per subject.
It will be recollected that the author of that classical treatise " on the
Syrian Goddess," which you have remarked to be P.rroneously attri-
buted to Lucian, was present at Bybios at the season of the celebration
of the rites of Adonis, and saw that head of papyrus, which by the vul-
gar was believed to arrive there by an annual miracle. How should this
mystery be interpreted? Did it not mean that in the early ages, before
such astronomical instruments as we now possess were invented, or
when only those of comparatively rude construction were known, the
Sabman priests were, from a migdol (or sacred observatory) hereabout,
accustomed to see the bright star beta in the head of Bootes, (which is
the chief star of the constellation when Arcturus is excepted), and which
had sunk in the Mediterranean sea, rising in the eastern hemisphere, after
an absence of forty days? Affirmatively, this was my first idea: but it is
erroneous. I afterward, by bringing together history, chronology, maps,
and the celestial sphere, learned to correct it, and to vary the true account:
and I found that its astronomical, and geographical, variations, run pa-
Digitized byGoogle
114
rallel to those which are best attested of the attendant historical relations
of the mystic ceremonies.
But we may not dissipate our powers of attention, among the details of
this legend. Dr. Prichard has ably recounted the ·whole of the mytho-
Jogue of Isis and Osiris, with all its localities : and, to his learned " Ana-
lysis of the Egyptian Mythology," I beg to refer those who may desire
information on this bead. My present business, is, not to follow him
and the classical writers, through the details of the festivals of the Dis-
appearance, Search, and Resuscitation; but, principally, to shew that
Osiris, Bacchus, Bootes, and Noah, are only different names for the con-
stellated Husbandman.
The longer and shorter spaces of time that were occupied in these va-
rious rites, are all to be accounted for upon a correlative system of prin-
ciple&. When the astronomical priests of the lower latitudes of Egypt
and beheld the first, or the chief, stars of the Husbandman, sink
acronically bent>ath the western horizon, they began their lamentations,
-or then was held forth the signal for others to weep: when his prolific
virtues were supposed to be translated to the vernal sun-and not, I be-
lieve, when the first of his ascendant stars reappeared in the eastern
hemisphere-Bacchanalian revelry became devotion. In all places the
rites began with lamentation, and in all ended with rejoicing: but the
time varied in different ages and nations.
The varying accounts, can in no other way be rendered consistent with
regard to time and to each other, than by reference to the concomitant
astronomical phenomena,• which must necessarily have varied in different
latitudes, and in different ages. In most instances-! believe we may
say in aU-the season of rejoicing, was that of the spring: " the common
time for their solemnization (says Plutarch) was within that month in
which the Pleiades appear."
Before the colore of the vernal equinox had passed into the Ram; and
* The astronomical details wbicb have direct reference to this celebrated legend and to tbese
deified stars of the Husbandman, are of too much importance to be here entirely dismissed, and
would be too long t.o be here entirely diacuned and inserted. l must therefore postpone the
hopour ofsubmitting them to a future eaaay. •
Digitized byGoogle
116
after it bad quitted Al-debarAn and the Hyades, the Pleiades were for
about seven or eight centuries, or perhaps longer, esteemed to be the
leading stars of the Sabrean year. It is not meant that the vernal colore
continued to pass ·exactly through this cluster of stars for the above
space of time; but, that there were no other stars of the zodiac, between
the Hyades and the first degrees of Aries, sufficiently near to supersede
them by serving as an astronomical mark. On the Pleiades and their
vernal ascension I have more particularly dwelt in my subsequent
on the cylinders of Sir William Boughton and Mr. Rich; and through
the period of their astronomical reign as leading stars, run the earlier
astronomical notices of the Greeks and of our own scriptures. Hence
the correct beauty and congeniality of Milton's feeling in describing the
heliacal rising of these stars-
- " dawn and the Pleiades
Shedding sweet inftueoce : -
Hence too·the great number_of antique monuments of all the Sabrean
nations, where the disc and crescent-the symbols of the sun and moon
in conjunction-appear successively; nrst on the head; at· subsequent
periods on the neck or back, of the zodiacal Bull ; and more recently on
the forehead of the Ram. It was the hieroglyphical sign of the impor-
tant transit of the vernal equinox, and of the rejoicing-festival which
closed the annual rites of Osiris.
I feel here in fresh danger of running into digression, but since " the
light that leads astray, seems light from heaven:" I hope, sir, you will par-
don my obedience to the impulse, should this apprehension turn out to
be well founded. ·
The diagrammatical character, or symbol, which is still in use to de-
note Taurus, is in fact, this very crescent and disc ; the homed moon,
·which in the ancient monuments is placed beneath, being now (with
more analogical propriety) placed above, the disc of the sun-but, trans-
mitted, no doubt, down to QUr times, from those far distant ages when
this memorable conjunction in Taurus, by marking the commencement,
at once of the Sabrean year and of the cycle of the Chaldean saros, so
J
116
pre-eminently distinguished the sign Taurus, as to become its charac-
teristic symbol: for bad the abstract shape of a horned hull's head, been
the origin of this diagram, as some authors have surmised ; the form be-
neath the crescent, would not have been a circle, but a triangle.
There was even an antique Taurus of bronze lately consigned to Mr.
Christie from China! in which bronze, the symbolical crescent remains
attached to the back of the bull by of a quaint Chinese cloud, and
where a curved groove is provided for the occasional introduction of the
disc of the sun, when Mazzaroth was in its season-that is to say, when
solar and lunar time were coincident and conjunctive at the commence-
ment of the year and of the lunar cycle..
This bronze must have belonged-not to those very remote ages when
by Google
117
the year opened with the stars in the Aeful of the bull, but-must
been in sacred use, when the colore of the vernal equinox, passed across
the iniddle; or, across the iater degrees, of the asterism Taurus, and the
Pleiades were perhaps in China-as they we-re in Canaan-the leading
of the year. Without any unprecedented stretch of fancy, we
might liave conjectured it to have originally belonged to that " temple
palace of the horned bull," to which you have alluded ih your learned
" Inquiry," and which I have before mentioned in one of my letters to
Capt. Lockett : but, since this idea crossed my mind, I have met with
another bull, exactly resembling that sent from China, but of somewhat
larger dimensions, in the British Museum, which implies that such bolls
-perhaps such. temples-were not very uncommon.
Along with a· representation of this curious Chinese. monument, of
which ·Mr. Christie has obligingly permitted my son to make a
and which so unequivocally displays the taste and style \)f art of the
country where it was produced-I have the pleasure toexhibit a Baby-
lonian, a Phrenician, a· Greek, and an Egyptian, Taurus. ·
The small bronze,·which in the usual station of the Pleiades, has the
bump which distinguishes the cattle of Hindostan, ·and 'which:bas also
the lunette horns of the heifer BaAl, was brought from Babylon by:my
friend ca·pt. Locke-tt. Of those with the sun's disc 'between tbe horns,
the smaller was purchased in Palestine by Sir William Rouse 'Boughto.n.
· It is represented as having been thrown down...:....merely for the sake of a
little picturesque variety in the composition-yet so as to shew the cres-
cent' and disc, with minute aspic fastening of Egyptian ·derivation.
The little Grecian Taurus, is from a cast in Tassie's interesting collec-
tion, and was originally impressed from an engraved onyx in that of the
Chevalier Wisden. Raspe mistakenly (as it appears to me) terms this a
Dionysiac bull, and says it has the three Graces between the horns:
whereas it is the Taurus of the zodiac, having the personified Hyades• ou
the head of the bull and the seven stars of the Pleiades arranged along
* The Hyadetl, u is well known, were five in number. In the present instance the minute scale
of the gem, and the laws of per.;pective, conspire to prevent more than three from being viai61e.
1•
Digitized byGoogle
116
his back! What <:onfirms me in this opinion (Sir) is, that it represent•
the celestial bull as you have yourself spoken of him, "in the attitude of
attack, and as if striking at something with his horns ;" as be sometimes
on the later monuments of Egypt, as well as on the· earlier of
those of Greece the way-may it not be suspected, that whenever
be is thus represented in the sculpture of the former country, such sculp-
ture is not of earlie.- date than the Macedonian conquest?-The disijo-
nance between this violent action, and the calm solemnity of that early
Egyptian art which is certainly indigenous; and the exact correspon·
dence ofthis buttir,g Egyptian Lull, with those on the gems and coinage
of Greece, strongly incline me to this opinion.
The 1·emaining bull of my group (of antique Tauri) I intended should
have been copied from one of the Egyptian bronzes that repose in our
natiQnal collection: but the room which contains them, is unluckily
locked up, a\ld likely to continue so for some months, on account ofits
containing also the antiquities sent home by Mr. Salt, which are not
yet accessible to the public. I owe this apology to my readers, for shew.
ing so little more of the bull of Egypt, than the head and horns-not
copied (I am obliged to confess), from any one specimen, Lut recollected
from several: The figure, which should else have been more prominent,
contains however the astronomical disc and crescent, marking the vernal
of the more remote period, and which I am very certain will be
found on the heads of at least three of the bulls in the small Egyptian
room at the British Museum.
· For the information of some of my readers, I may here be permitted
to meotion that the disc above the forehead of Taurus in these antiques,
was not always a fixture. Nor could we in ancient monuments of this
nature, have possibly met with a plainer indication of a moveable festival
dependent on the occasional conjunction of the two greater luminaries,
than is presented to us in the circumstance of many of these antique bulls
of bronze-those of Greece as well as those of Egypt-having holes re.
maining on their heads, evidently contrived, and with very remarkable
correspondence with the groove of the Chinese bronze, for the periodical
reception of the symbols of the sun and moon-either or both of them;
Digitized byGoogle
119
as the state of the material heavens might demand-which were,. in their
reepective seasons, attached by means of metal pegs fitted to the holes.
Upon these sacred periodical occasions, Taurus was publicly produced.
with his proper astronomical decoration as, according to Herodotus, the
mystic bull of Mycerinus was produced at Sais. Nor needs Mr. Payne
Knight be reminded of two of these antique Tauri of fine Grecian
workmanship (having such boles remaining) in his own unparalleled
museum of bronzes.
But, forewarned by the fate of Europa, I most not aJlow this decorated
huH of bulls to seduce me from the terra-firma of my original purpose.
Returning therefore, from this collateral branch of our subject,-we might
have supposed the present gem to have had reference to some such annual
festiYal, and to have been used in the sacred ceremonies, bad the place of
the Sun, Leen here specified or indicated: Had the Sun been shewn in
Aquarius, the allusion to the acronical setting of Bootes and the Bear,
would hatre been sufficiently obvious and remarkable. Not being quite
certain however, that this state of the heavens is not alluded to, I shaH
return to the problem, before I close the present speculation. Aquarius,
who has sometimes been pronounced to be the poorer forth of the
Deluge, is rising at the farther extremity of the engraving, and is pour-
ing forth his flood of waters on a small .orb which is nevertheless 'Yery
distinctly made out. Has this any recondite allusion to the Chaldean
deluge of Noah or Xixuthrus?
Each of my readers will decide this question for himself. I shall
merely observe for the present, that in almost every nation of antiquify,
there are either written records, or traditional accounts, supported by
fossil vestiges, of a deluge; with evidences of its having been attended by
disruption of the subterranean abyss. If before the invention of letters,
any marvellous occurrence was hieroglyphically recorded among these
sacred engravings, of which I conceive the earliest to have preceded all
literature,-surely an advent so important would not be passed over;
and of all the nations of the East, we may reasonably expect the most
authentic accounts of the Deluge, from the progenitors of the Abrabamic
r.ace. Indeed, I have already had occasion to shew, and shall have
P2
Digitized byGoogle
120
more-that other scriptural events·and scriptural personages, are intro-
duced or alluded .to, on these curious miniature monuments of antiquity;
and that the Greeks-perhaps also ··the Egyptians-from imperfect ac-
quaintance, or from patriotic fraud, ·have disguised some of these ·primi-
tive ARsyrian and Ethiopian personages, whom posterity may one day
restore- to their steJlar honourli and their historical rights. Without ram-·
bliog·too far.from our immediate subject, a few more words may perhaps
be employed without subsequent regret, in endeavouring to ascertain, or.
identify, the important constellation before us, ere we pass on to the
south westward. ·
· The forty days, or other period, of the absence ofOsiris, has by the clas-.
sica} writers, been repeatedly said to have been spent Persephone in.
Hades. This must be regarded as a fabulous and Greek construction, of
a ·date long posterior to the Chaldean or Ethiopian origin of the cere-
mony; for, as you have yourself recorded, Sir, " the ancient planetary
worship, preceded the symbolical." But the lamentations for Thammuz
or Adonis, could not have lasted for forty days; nor have been-as bas
been inconsistently supposed by Macrobius and others-on account of
the absence of the Sun; whose time of absence, if supposed to be longer
than for a single night, must have been fabled to be for the whole of the
winter. Why have I saitl, ifsupposed to be?-Because the fact is noto-
riously otherwise; and it cannot but appear odd that so many mytholo-
gical inquirers, should have conspired to forget that the Sun is not at this
season absent or .invisible; but on the contrary, is seen every day as
usual; his course being only somewhat shorter-not suddenly so neither
-and more southerly.
If therefore Bootes be Osiris; and Osiris, Adonis; neither of these latter
could have been the Sun, or have been supposed to be so, but by mis-
taken perversion or misappropriation, proceeding from a cause which has
already been adverted to as a source of popular error. Yet with the
interesting Greek fable of the loves of .Venus and Adonis, they may be
astronomically connected; for it would of course happen occasionally
that the planet Venus, while in the course of her alternations, she was a
morning star, would rise, and at other seasons would set, with the stars
Digitized byGoogle
12.1
of. Bootes-that is to say, about the same tiaie, or one immediately, or'
at a Vt3_ry. short interval, following the other : An astronomer, by retro-
spective calculation, might ascertain w.ben the planet Venus· set
just before the constellation; and when; setting soon after, or dimmed and'
gradually extinguished by the superior light of.the rising or setting Sun,
she m.ight be fabled to follow and. mourn.her favourite.·
The. variations in t)le ancient.Jegend ofIsis and Osiris, while they. indi-.
cate a.varying cause, shew that the. classical writers were· uninformed
and unconscious oCthe existence of that.cause: In short-as my·Lord
Verulam has well observed-they sometimes themselves tO be
but traMmitters.of .what they either did not understand, or chose to dis-
guise. Aratus tells two different stories of the origin of some of the·
constellations; and even the accomplished Ovid after assigning·three for
some of the Roman festivals, candidly confesses his ignorance, or his
doubts, of their truth. If, imitating this candour, the modern scholars·
-those who have so long been inconsiderately wedded to the difficulties·
and inconsistencies that attend on the supposition of Osiris or ·Adonis
being the Sun,• and which have obliged them to excurse, for.the solution
of.their enigmas, from Egypt and Syria to.Upsal and the pole ;-If they·
to resolve to repudiate and rid themRelves of this shackle on anti-:
quarian liberty of opinion ;-If with me they will agree to read (each in:
his favourite version of these mysteries,) BooTES, for Adonis, Osiris,- or
the Sun; and for the Boar, the Bear-we shall have arrived at a means
of explanation more facile, and in much better accordance with the sim-
plicity of those early ages when the ceremony of weeping for Thammuz
may be presumed to have originated,-than is afforded by the circuitous
decypherings ofthe Bryant school, or even by the explanations of Plu-:
* Had it been my fortune to hue met with Dr. Prichard's book, to which the, inquisitive
reader baa been referred for the particulars of the Oairian legend, before I had proceeded au far
with my own, it bad probably been better for my readers and myaelf. That erudite work,
contains however, no demonstration that Osiris was, or was not, anciently underatood to be the
Sun, or that be was not a constellated personage of very remote antiquity. I have ventured to
exhibit reasons why it could not contain any other than disagreeing specifications of tht"
of hia disappearance and resuscitation.
Digitized byGoogle
tarch himaelf: for .Bootes is annually and ot necessity, pursued from the
horizon by the lesser Bear-by that Bear, of which Thales brought the
knowledge into Greece; but which was previously known either as Bear
or Boar to the Sabeaos of Syria, after whom it was named Phamice.
· But in truth, it is well known, that, neither does the greater Bear1d till
we arrive at latitudes considerably to the southward of those of Homer
and of Greece. Wherefore we have here in Phamicia, an astronomic in-
terpretation of all the leading traits in the poetic legend of Venus and
.Adonis. The addition by Hevelius, of the coupled Hounds, to the con-
stellation Bootes, is in strict conformity with that ancient fable which
of the early sports of the favourite of Venus. The celestial pheno-
mena therefore occasionally presents us with his monaing hunt when he
pursued the Boa... over Mount Lebanon-the more ancient Byblos being
ao inland city seated on part of this mountain:-we have his aUegorical
death by the Boar, in consequence of the circumvolution of the stars
round the arctic pole: and we have the serene brightness-the smiling
beauty-of the planet-goddess while the stars of Adonis were above-
and her comparative dimness as those atars sunk beneath, the horizon:
or as 'the ascendant light of the greater luminary, preceded his actual
appearance. The remaiader of the fable is explained by oor supposing
an opportune configuration of the planet Mars, with that of Venus, and
with the stars of the Hunter and the Bear.
I can only hope here, that without warping the judgment of the general
reader, I may impart some portion, at least, of the pleasure I feel in these
endeavours to trace and interpret ancient fable by sidereal facts : yet I
am bound to recollect, what must prevent me from being over sanguine;
namely, that poetry delights io th-ose warm and florid hues which imagi-
nation wildly flings over its objects, while my facts have the coolness and
silence of the light of the moon and stars.
• Boar or Bear. One of the cele5tial Bears I think must have been rtpreseoted as a Boar oo
tbt Pb12nician plani•pberea. And it may be remarked here tllattbe more ancient pole of the
equator, not being exactly where it is at present, (nor, of course denoted by atar
or Cynoaura,) the stars of Ursa Minor must have had more decided circumvolution than at pre-
sent, and may have more decidedly pursued those of Bootes.
Digitized byGoogle
1'23
On the whole, I confess that I am not without a cheering feeling amount-
ing almost to faith, that as my mode of explanation carries the mind
nearer to the permanencies of nature and to the soundest of all species
of truth, than some others, it will obtain that due preference over the
etymological process-though it may not over the poetical,-whichNature
(especially when she walks band io band with Geometry) sooner or later,
generally obtains over Art, when they come in competition.
Returning to our proper antiquarian pursuit-Are these. profane per-
sonages (Adonis and Osiris) recognisable by other names in the.sacred
records This may be more difficult to determine, than to disallow the
visionary fables of some of the later classic poets. Thammuz, J believe,
in·the Cbaldee and Hebrew languages is literally the tDOflder ! In the
Greek it is the same, with a slight variation in the ultimate syllable.-
Tbe rainbow was known by that word, in the sense that we should now
say the plte1wmm01t. The wonder. {one should suppose in the present
case,) most virtually have resided in the reappearance of the submerged
asterism; which was bailed with acclamations. The women wept* for
Thammuz that they ·might afterward rejoice.
Or, with yet more probability (as will subsequently be explained) the
women might weep for the wonder, supposing it to consist of the (yet
more wonderful) tranfdation of the genial virtues of the submerged stars,
to the vernal Sun :-and this upon the same principle that Milton's Lap-
witches are described as dancing and making hideous noises, " to
assist the labouring moon."
· From Kircher may be learned t.bat the seven principal stars of Ursa
Major, were once known (I suppose in .Egypt and during the earlier
ages) as the Car of Osiris. This is curious; because boat, or Ark, of
Osiris, appears to be meant. Such boats or arks are frequent among
* 'The t»«pi'llg of the women for Thammuz, must have been commuted, either for some
mourning habit which they wore during the season of the ceremony; or the fbrty days muat
have been commuted for u many hours-I ahould rather have aaid minute•: for what woman
except Niobe, ever wept forty hours at a time ?-I believe veils are aomewhere in ICfipture
mentioned as hning been worn on the occaaion by the modest dissemblers: and I recollect
that Plutarch, in the uncertainty which attended on these mysteries even in his time, bringa
down the forty days of mourning to four; and some other writer, if I am not mistaken, to one.
Digitized byGoogle
124
the Egyptian hieroglyphics; and in their planisplieres are seen floaiing
near both the poles. It is further curious, as referring to the passage
already quoted from the Universal History, wherein Plutarch expressly
treats of the inclosure of Osiris in the ark,-an annual commemorative
ceremony, which he says took place on the 17th of the month of Athyr:
and which, according to the authorities above cited, corresponds with the
day assigned by Moses for the beginning of the Deluge. If then in the
remoter ages, these stars were thus constellated, they must have occa-
sionally appeared to rise over Ararat, from those Chaldean observatories
(termed Migdols in the Hebrew language, and probably in the Chaldee,)
which were within view of that mountain from the southward.
To the earlier parts of the Bible history, including the book of Job;
and to those tom scraps of record which have descended to us through
Berosus; his Sybilline daughter; Abulfaragius; Moses of Chorene; and·
others; respecting those powerful Sabrean nations whose existence pre-
ceded.the civilization of Greece; (which scraps are ably treasured up in
Pococke's Historia Arabum, and in the last work of that distinguished·
French traveller and chronologist who has been ah·eady named) great'
consideration.is undoubtedly due, and from them perhaps much of astro-
nomical. meaning may yet remain to be extracted: nor is plausibility
wantirig in support of certain opinions of Volney respecting those very"
ancient personages, whose stellar, or whose earthly, existence, we are now
discussing; nor rational stimulus for further inquiry. Yet it should be
remarked as a seeming inconsistency, that in the engraved planisphere
which the French philosopher bas prefixed to his" Ruins of Empires,"
he marks the same constellation as being Bootes, Adam, Osiris: but in
the twenty-eighth note to that work, he would identify Adam with·
Bootes; and Noah, as a separate personage, with Osiris, and also with
Saturn, Xixuthrus, and Janus.
Can any thing be said upon this occasion in the way of reconcilement,
which here would amount to virtual identity? Certainly there are points
of agreement between these primitive personages. Each has pretensions
to some species of priority. Perhaps this Husbandman, Hunter, or
Herdsman, (now called Bootes) was in reality tllefirst human asterism of
Digitized byGoogle
125
the most ancient sphere or "Chamber of iruagery," and in this ab-origi·
nality, may center the first of men, Adam; the first of kings, Osiris; the
first, or eldest, of gods, Saturn; the 'first of post-diluvians, Noah, or
Xixuthrus ; and,-with the addition of his ante.diluvian face, Janus.·
A Phmnician demi·god is mentioned by Sanchoniathon, whose proper
name being, like Bootes, a Greek word of meaning, must have been sup.
plied by his translator, Philo-Byblius, b'ut, being the synonywe of hus-
·bandman, it shews that husbandman 1imst have been the word in the
original Punic, or language of Phmnicia ; and in other respeetS,·this part
of the mythological record of Sanchoniathon, (if it may be presumed to
have ever existed) is luminously·applicable to our present purpose. His
Agrotes, should be an Antediluvian, as·well as an husbandman; and
having been·of the ninth generation-which is the very era of Noah•-
should the leading features of his history agree in other respects, we may
with small licence of conjecture, believe him to have been tile patriarclwl
Husbandman. I can scarcely too often reiterate that ancient names are a
very inferior, and often illusive, species of evidence, when compared with
well attested facts, supported on science. If the averment of Sanchonia-
thon be true, that Agrotes was the first of whom a statue was made, and
who received divine honours, we cannot well believe in a general deluge,t
without concluding the Husbandman-deity of Phmnicia to have been the
venerated patriarch of the renewed world.
The words of the Phmnician historian, as rendered by the authors of the
Universal History, with small aid of paraphrase, for the sake of omitting
foreign matter, are follow-" By these (of the eighth generation) were
begotten others, of whom one was called Agrotes (the Husbandman) who
* Noah was of the tenth generation, if we include Adam, and is generally ao reckoned: but
since Adam was created and not generated, I think it more correct to reckon Noah to have
been of the ninth generation.
t Sanchoniathon is accused of having suppressed the mention of the Deluge, out of respect
to the posterity of Cain :-but I leave that matter with Bishop Cumberland. And the doubts
er disbelief of the authenticity of the tbeogony of Sanchoniatbon, I of course, leave with those
who them, desiring to derive no more support from that real or than
they may'be vohantarily pleased to allow.
Q
Digitized byGoogle
126
had a statue much worshipped, and a tabernacle (or ark) carried about
by one or more yoke of oxen in Phrenicia; and among those of Byblos
he is eminently called the (first) of the gods. HtUbandmen, afltl
a8 tile dogs in hunting, were derived from Agrotes and Agrus, and
they are also called Aletm and Titans."*
To. all ofthe above.first-men, with the exception of Janus (whose sym-
bOlical attribute is a key) the falx, or sickle, and pastoral staff, are com-
mon. I might add, that a modification of the implement held against the
left shoulder of our Babylonian figure, is also common, taken with that
latitude of interpretation which belongs to its dubious appearance and
small dimensions, which render it so difficult to say whether flail, hoe,
scourge or van, is intended by the engraver.
My authorities here are not mean. For Adam, Noah, and Xixuthrus,
there are, the book of Genesis, and an authenticated legend of Chaldea;
for Osiris, there is the learned treatise of Plutarch ; aud the historical
records of Herodotus and Diodorus; which agree, as do all the early
and genuine accounts, in stating that he was wedded to IBis.
Of the various interpretations of this real or allegorical personage, Isis,
that which pronounces her to be Nature, or the passive power of terrene
production, appears to be worthy of decided preference. It might seem
too much like a pun, to call an agricultural king who really existed-one
who had figuratively wooed, and was wedded to, Nature, a
yet this is Pezron's interpretation, and is applied by him to Noah and to
Saturn; who according to this writer, were the same individual. In
troth the single meaning is in sound analogy: NATURE, ofcourse, sunived
this first king, if such he was, whether treacherously murdered or not;
and by the same parity of reasoning, grieved at his obsequies, as the clas-
sical authorities have asserted.-But -in this case the canonization of a
mortal chief appears to be meant, and not, as Macrobius and some other
authors have supposed, any sacred rites in honour of the immortal orb of
day. Nor should we omit to notice here, that this ·reasoning applies also,
by analogy, to the constellation before us, whose disappearance in the lower
latitudes begins to take place during the brumal season, when Isis, or Na-
* Ancient Universal History, vol. i. p. 88, folio edit.
Digitized YGoogle
li7
ture, mourns, almost without a metaphor; and of courserejoices at his re-
turn io•the summer. Which of these is the most likely to be the physical
and literal, and which the mystic or analogical, sense, every reader will
judge for himself.
With regard to the deified Husbandman Saturn, I cannot, Sir, have
better authority than your own, that the very word is derived from Sator,•
the sower, or planter, (which J suppose has its root in some older language
than the Roman) and to which I believe may be added, that the season of
the Aphanism, or departure, of our constellation, is that when seed is
committed to the earth : by the way, this does not differ, more than a few
days, or a few degrees of latitude, would reconcile, from the ·season of
that heliacal rising of .the star Fomalhaut,-which, as I haYe before inti-
mated, may possibly be intended to be expressed on the cylinder.
My references here, haYe been chieBy to the sacred rites of
Phc:enicia, .Egypt, and .lEtbiopia; but, during the earlier Sabamn ages,
the same customs·may be traced through the neighbouring nations. In
an erudite dissertation on the Athenian skiropll.oria, Mr. Christie.has
shewn on good authorities, that agricultural ceremonies, of a mystic kind,
were practised in Persia, in China, and in Greece; the Athenians (who
obtained the knowledge of them from Phmnicia) celebrating them as
" the most ancient record of the art of sowing ;" the Persians, at their
more ancient festival of Nouroze; and the Chinese, " when the Sun en-
tered the fifteenth degree of Aquarius."t
Herodotus, Diodorus, and Plutarch, in their histories of those remote
ages where fable mingles with fact, open too wide a field for me to pre-'
some to follow them here, and follow them far: were I to attempt it, in-
stead of fixing a few facts, I should become desultory :-but among much
other matter relating to Osiris, we learn from thence that be is'Bacchus
also. Herodotus expressly says, " in the Greek language, Osiris is sy-
nonymous with Bacchus ;"t your own " Inquiry,"§ confirms this: and
Dr! Prichard supported by classical authorities, adds (what is much to
• " lnquil')' into the Symbolical Language of Ancient Art and Mytbology/' p.86. t Christie's
"Diwrtationa," &c. pp. 186, 7, 8. t Euterpe, cb. cxliv. § Page 10 of Mr. R. P.
Knight's "Inquiry."
Digitized byGoogle
128
my purpose).thal Bacchus traversed the world leadingin his train a host
of fauns and satyrs, and other fabulous beings, wkose images are seal
among tke co:n.stellations.•-
. This latter circumstance, appears somewhat
dubiously to imply that, the world which Bacchus traversed, was not. the
subluQary world, but the celestial mundus. . ·
Now, independently of tbe above, it is natural to expect that a demi-
. .
god so celebrated as Bacchus, should appear somewhere on the sphere.
There is no planet named after him ; and certainly no other constellation
accords so ·well .with accounts, and with the ancient figures, of the
bearded Bacchus, as this of Bootes.
Diodorus says moreover of this demi-god, (Bacchus or Osiris) that he
taught meu to distinguish and cherish good, and to .
eschew evil; that he
held in great esteem those who contrived and fashio.ned weapons
{or the destruction .of wild .beasts, and implements of husbandry; and
that he himself taught the arts of tillage,. travelled to civilize .mankind,
and was raised to heaven in gratitude for the great benefits-chiefly me-·
cbanical and .agricultural-which man had derived from his inventh·e
genius·.-All this has unquestionable reference to the earliest and rudest
ages; but scarcely less than the hold vivacity and versatile fancy of Vol-
ney, would venture to regard the crozier and scourge of Osiris-the gene-
rally recognised symbols of attraction and repulsion-with any reference
to the dear-bought knowledge ofgood and evil, of which we read inGenesis.
these varying, but not utterly discordant, accounts of pa-
triarchs, demi-gods, and kings, the general reader will have borne in mind,
. that the arts of tillage and of the were in those early ages
esteemed-and juslly esteemed-most honourable and important. The
word Bootes, I believe, in the Greek language, designates a herdsman or
rustic. Agrotes, being husbandman or cultivator, is nearly synonymous.
To the five Coptic etymons .of the name Osiris, which the author of " the
Analysis of Egyptian Mythology," brings forward on the authority of
Jablonski, M. Silvestre de Sacy has added another, and I believe Dr.
Hager a seventh. If these prove any thing, they prove what Dr. Prichard
has remarked in a very sensible note-that, " the names of the Egyptian
* Analysis of the Egyptian Mythology, p. 57.
Digitized byGoogle
12D
gods were derived from a dialect already obsolete when the classical au-
thors wrote." The other names or epithets which we have seen assigned
to this constellation,.may, some of them, have been the proper designations
in different countries, of one or more individuals who were honoured
among the Sabreaos on account of their agricultural talents·or discoveries:
to whom were rendered sacred t\le stars whose risings and settings were
the signals of agricultural operations. '
I ought perhaps to have mentioned before, that, depicted as he·is ·on
the oldest of the modern spheres, as if aRr.P.ndiog the summit of the· Mons
Mamalus, our constellation accords precisely with the mention iri the
ancient oracle cited by Eusebius, .of a mountain herdsman bearing a
mystic goad. The critical reader may perhaps have noticed an irregular
form, like that of a fragment of rock, beneath the foot of our sculptured
mountain herdsman, as he presents himself in the etching and on the gem.
This 1 have always supposed to be an accidental fracture: but I cannot
be certain that it is not designed ; and that it is not the prototype of the
Mons Mamalus.
At length the Greeks appear-either in order to avoid the confusion of
various denominations; or from their habitual jealousy of barbarians and
tkeir sciences•-but most likely from their strong and evident desire to
appropriate to themselves as much of the sublime scienceof astronomy as
possible-to have abolished, (where they could, and at some time before
the age of Aoacreon) the Chaldean, or .lEthiopian, and Phc:enician desig-
nations-in short all the foreign proper names of this astronomical ·person-
age; and to have generalized or consolidated the denomination of the
. asterism in question, as we behold in the word Bootes.
But before this verbal consolidation, an hieroglyphical mode of gene-
ralizing-if not the epithet, yet the representation of the asterism, appears
-if Kircher may be credited-to have been adopted by the Chartomi of
Egypt. What degree of authenticity you may think it right to allow to
the Egyptian planispheres produced by this antiquary, I cannot foresee.-
• " The Greeks were not only very indifferent proficients in the sciences," (aaya Sir William
Drummond) "but they were in general extremely ignorant of the orientallanguages."-Me-
moir on IM Antiquity of the Zodiac1, p. IS.
Digitized byGoogle
130
J have before intimated that I think but little ought to be granted in all
cases where antique-authorities are not brought forward: yet I must add
that I do not suppose: Kircher to have invented his planispheres-which
would be to pronounce him outright to have been an impostor. No: I
rather think they are compilations; and that no authority has been ad·
daced, because. from ilo single authority were they copied. Sir William
Drummond says that, " to the accuracy of the planispheres exhibited by
Kircher, many objections ha?e been made, but Bailly, (the French astra.
nomer) has certainJy repelled the •uost important of them....-Whatever
weight of authority you may be pleased to allow to them : it is remark-
able that in his plate of " the northern constellations,'' instead of Bootes,
Noah, or Osiris,-the first cultivator of the vine-we behold tke viNe it-
811//-1 introduce the-mention of this, not merely as a curious fact; but
(to those who place reliance on Athanasios Kircher) as a buttress of un-:-
expected support to the mass of evidence which so many antiquaries
baye laboured to collect, in order to shew the identity of the very ancient
personages who are here in question.
It is difficult to suppose the vine itself to have been constellated in a
planisphere where it is the vegetable asterism, upon any other prin-
ciple than as the substitute, and fit symbolical representative, of him who
first expressed and fermented its generous juice; and it may have been so
substituted (as l believe Kircher says or implies) by the second Hermes;
as a mean of reconciliation, or common center of scientific agreement, be·
tween those different tribes or nations, who had begun to call this asterism
by different names. De Pauw bas ascertained that the use of wine came
from to .Egypt; and SirWilliam Drummond that, the vine was
sacredt to Osiris; which I could wish might be remembered when
the sequel to the present essay, comes before the notice of the critical
reader.
Moreover, there are various rumours (not to say more of them) among
the rabbin, of a sacred and constellated vine being known to the Hebrews.
A representation of it existed in their temple; and several allusions to it,
* <Edipus Judaicus, p. lix. with a reference to Bailly's Histoire de l' Astrouomie, p. 500.
t Memoir on the Antiquity ofthe Zodiacs ofEane, p. 57.
Digitized byGoogle
131
are to be found among the writings of their prophets. Had Sir William
Drummond happened to think of this stellated vine, whilst
on the death-bed prediction of the patriarch Jacob, it would have much
strengthened his argument, for some of its foliage branches over from
the sectorial space above Virgo, to that above Leo, wherein he has placed
the ass's head which he calls a paranatellon of Leo, the standard of Ju-
dah. This however is·merely a passing notice. I shall also slightly men-
tion, with some allusion to our subject ;-particularly to the ancient tra-
dition current among the Byblians that the Egyptian Osiris was interred
in their country ; that there is a place not very far from thence. eaHed
Bootes-hellah. Whether Hellah may mean, or may ever ·have meant.
sepulchre in any of the languages which at ditferent periods have prevailed
in Syria, I cannot tell; but the place is now-or was, in the time of
Maundrell-a Syrian village, and was visited by that truth-telling travel-
ler; who reports a ridiculous superstition prevalent among the Turks,
that no person of their religion could possibly live two years in Bootes-
hellah.
I shall here quit further investigation of the origin, meaning, and rela-
tions, of this asterism, for the present; not without some regret, Sir, that
the demands of my subject, have compelled me, in your presence, among
the obscure intricacies of .Egyptian mythology; yet intending in a sub-
sequent essay, to return to the RLJhu. on which may more
safely be rested the issue of the question concerning the identity of Bootes
with Osiris.-This is an important problem; hut as it has only grown
collaterally out of my speculations on the engraved monuments of Chal-
dea, it may be deferred without impropriety, in order that my inquiries
respecting the remainder of the contents of Captain Lockett's hrematite,
may not be unnecessarily delayed.
Returning to our enlarged developemeot of the cylinder, and passing
onward from Bootes and the Bear, we next arrive at a remarkable figure
kneeling ()n one knee. It admits of little or no question that this is the
very same figure with the Hercules .Engonasin of the modem sphere. His
similar situation and similar attitude, on the sphere aud on the cylinder,
attest this, I believe I might venture to say beyond dispute: for these
Digitized byGoogle
132
striking resemblances can scarcely be supposed to have happened fortui·
or without one ofthese figures originating the other. I mean those
resemblances which even a casual observer may perceive to exist, between
the attitudes of the figures, and their similar situations to the south-east-
ward of Bootes ; coincidences in my estimation by far too extraordinary
fQr accident to have produced. ·
Some of the modem sphere-makers indeed-in order as may be sup-
posed, to make this asterism appear more of a Hercules, have placed in
his hands two serpents and a branch of the Hesperian fruit : but of these
-symbols of the irifantdeity, and of his subsequent Argonautic success-
the former being with what is expressed by the supplicat-
ing action and manly.age of the figure, may fairly be regarded as a half-
witted. superinduction. The action .rather belongs-if it might be sup-
posed to belong to Hercules at all-to that part of the adventures of this
hero, where, wounded and weary in his contest with the Ligures, he falls
on his knees to implore the paternal aid of Jupiter.
Of the origin of this as a Sabrean, or oriental, legend and constellation,
I believe nothing is known: but it appears ever to have been represented,
ftom the Babylonian ages to the present, invariably in the same manner.
Aratus, who deserves thegreatest credit for his honest confession of ignor-
ance with regard to this suppliant figure, describes him as follows :
A human}lgfD'e whelm'd With toll appears:
Yet still with name uncertain he remain• :
Nor known the labour that he thus sustains :
But since upon his kneel he seems to fall,
Him ignorant mortals Engooaeia call.
And this sincerity on the part of Aratus, is itself a luminous fact; for it
implies no less than that Aratus was himself among the ignorant mortals,
and consequently that the story of Hercules-who could not have been
regarded as a constellation by those nationfl who worshipped him as
the diurnal sun-has been subsequently engrafted on this stock of ignor-
ance. Had the poet known for whom this figure was intended, it is fairly
to be presumed that he would have imparted this knowledge. The con-
trary cannot be supposed; his subject being the explanation of the hea-
Digitized byGoogle
133
venly phenomena; his purpose t_, please and to honour his country.
The ignorance of Aratus, is the implied ignorance of every Greek: and
·what better species of evidence could we now have in proof that the
sphere is not of Grecian origin ?-except indeed it be the resurrectior of
such an antique monument as that which I have here the honour to set
before you? The artificial sphere and the cylinder, are like the planet we
inhabit and the moon ; they receive and reflect light on and from each
other, and are here seen in apposition.
It may not be unworthy of remark, that in the Arabian astronomy,
this figure is called Al-Gethi, which is literally the kneeler: Vitruvius
also terms this asterism " Him who is called the kneeler ;" which argues
equal ignorance on the part of the Romans of tbe age of Vitruvius, with
that of the Ga·eeks, and equal candour on the part of the classical Archi-
tect, with that of the Poet: and it may further be observed that the de-
scription of Vitruvius appears to lea,·e a wide vacant space in that part of
the northern heavens, where on the antique monument before us, is seen
a majestic figure, of which I shall presently to treat. .He says,
" The foot of the Kneeler, is supported by the head of the Serpent tbat is
entwined between }Jim and Arctos (otherwise called. Septeutrio). At a
little distance from them is Delphinus. Lyra is placed opposite to the
bill of the Swan. The Crown is between the shoulder of the Keeper, and
the Kneeler."-His translator (Newton, from whom I cite) would here
correct Vitruvius, by reading Antinous instead of Delphinus: but it is
clear on reflection, that this would be an anachronism, Antinous having
had no existence either in above or ou the earth beneath, before
the age of Hadrian :• till that time Ganymede must have engaged the
stars in question-if they were engaged at all-on the spheres of Greece
and Rome.
These stars however are too inconsideraiJle in magnitude, splendour,
and in the space they occupy, to have belonged to the gigantic t'onstella-
tion-(if such we might assume it to be) whicb appears holding forth the
radiating spikated forms on our Babylonian gem. Tbere is, in fact, no
* The Antinous of the Odyqey is out of the question. He can &urely never have been
raised from hades to heaven.
R
, .. .. . .'
. ' ' . .
·, ,· '·' '
Digitized byGoogle
< .. .. : :
134
figure in this quarter of the heavens, that is of sufficient importance, ex- .
cepting Ophiucus; and I have the evidence of other Chaldean engravings,
in proof that Ophiucus-who could never have been represented with
arrows, daggers, or maces-cannot be here intended.
The assertion of Vitruvius that " the foot of the Kneeler is supported
by the head of the Serpent," agrees precisely with the description of his
situation in " the Phenomena" of Aratus,
., While sublime his awful hands are 11pread,
&neath him rolls the Dragon's horrid head :
And his righl foot unmoved, appears to rt'lt
Fixt on the wreathing monster's burnish'd crest.
From the whole of which, it would appear that this figure of the Engo-
nasin, has merely been turned upside down, in the course of his transla-
tion from the siderial hieroglyphics of Chaldea,-through the spheres of
Greece and Rome, to those of modern Europe-but is otherwise un-
altered.
Even Ptolemy, who lived about a century later than Vitruvius, was
equally ignorant of an Hercules being intended in this constellation, and
like his predecessor, calls it Engonasin, or Engonasis. Ptolemy appears
to have used certain delineated figures of the constellations, which un-
fortunately have not come down• to us, for he says (1. 7. ch. 5. of his Al-
magest) that, he " does not always make use of th.e same figures with
those before him ;" (he had therefore seen some which are lost to us,)
" but for the sake of giving his figures a truer proJ>ortion, and adapt-
ing them better to the situations of the stars, has made many alterations
therein; as the astronomers before l1is time had done in. the C01t.Stellations
ofthole tkat were m01·e ancient." Upon which memorable passage, Dr.
Long pertinently remarks, " this observation will explain to us how it
comes to pass that we find a difference amongst ancient authors in their
descriptions of the constellations : thus the Bull is drawn according to
* So at least, I believe; but have already with the degree of uncertainty which I
feel, of those engraved in the reign of Geo. II. and I have met with none other. _My notion is
that the words "delineated according to Ptolemy" which are appended to charts, are in-
tended to express no more than, according to the written descriptions of that astronomer-not
according to his delineated planispheres.
Digitized byGoogle
135
Hipparcbns and Ptolemy, with only head, neck, and fore-part, ·as we
have him upon our present globes: whereas Vitrnvius, Pliny, aild others,
describe him entire."
Proceeding in the order of our cylinder-between Engouasis and the
figure pouring forth water, stands that very remarkable and majestic
figure to which I have already alluded, holding eight spikated forms
(radiating from his left hand) which appear to be either doubly-barbed•
arrows--or perhaps may be sceptres, maces, or daggers, (the reader must
on inspection decide for himself whether either, and which, of these are
intended) and in his right hand, brandishing above his bead a thunder-
bolt, as if in the act of procP.eding to launch it.
Of the engravt>d contents of this curious gem, this is the only figure
concerning which I am at all sceptical ; and my doubts are, whether it
be a Jo·st asterism-that is to say, the original Chaldean occupant of
certain stars in this quarter of the heavens, which are now engaged in
other constellations? or a personification of the planet Jupiter? or the
anomalous and ill defined Belus of Herodotus, Diodorus, and Macro-
bios?
I shall beg leave to submit my reasons for this uncertainty, in the hope
that they may tend to lead those who are better skilled in the occult
mysteries of ancient learning, to some sound conchtHion on the subject.
First: there appears in the engra,•ing, an evident-or at least a very
plausible, and credible-connexion or relativeness, between the sup-
pliant figure and him who with an air of commanding is
wielding the thunderbolt. To speak technically, they are grouped to-
gether with considerable address on the part of the artist, and in a style
which displays no contemptible powers of composition. This is in fa-
l'OUr of our regarding the thunder-bearer, as an asterism co-ordinate with
the Engonasis.
There is further some relation traceable, between these sculptured
figures, and the classic story, whatever be its real origin, of Hercules en-
treating aid of his father, when engaged in his Ligurean contest: quite
* I have seen doubly-barbed arrowt bearing resemblance to these; and they were brought
from Africa.
R2
Digitized byGoogle
.· .: ··: ......
136
enough, I should imagine, to shew that this Grecian or Barbarian fable
is more ancient than the heroic ages, and that it is of astronomical origin;
alluding, as I should suspect, to some opportune appearance or confi-
guration with other stars, of the Chaldean planet Jupiter. It is here
observable that both .Eratosthenes and Hyginus, apply this story to the
Engonasis of the sphere: the latter says that lEschylus interpreted this
figure to be that of Hercules contending with the Ligures for the cattle
of Geryon: but I acknowledge that [ can find in this poet no such ac-
count of the Engonasin: "The crowds (saytt Hyginus) increased around
him, and the arrows with which he bad slain many, became exhausted:
wounded, weary, and overpowered by numbers, he threw himself upon
his knees and implored the paternal aid of Jupiter; who, taking com-
passion on his son, caused heaps of large slonP.R to rise around him, witb
which he renewed the contest and put his adversaries to flight." The
present engraving, howeve1·, (if it have relation to this story) shews that
the weapons-the fabled weapons-with which the father of Hercules
in pity supplied him, were not stones.
Notwithstanding this legend of Jupiter and Hercules has been pre-
served, and may seem to confirm that pt·ofonnd observation of Lord
Vernlam that many of the ancient fables appear not to be invented, and
even not to be understood, hy those who have transmitted them to us,
yet it is very possible that the Greek mythologists and astronomical phi-
losophers, may have contrived to supersede and banish from their sphere
this ChaJrleau constellation-Beel-atk, Beel-ur, oa· whatever else
he may have been denominated-thinking it inconsistent; or derogatory,
and perhaps impious, that a barbarian deity resenibling him whom they
venerated as all-pervading, and lord of the whole etherial expanse, should
appear as a constellation merely, among the fixed stars.-Or he may, for
these reasons, have been converted into a Ganymede, who after main-
taining his celestial station for a time, has in his turn been superseded by
the minion of Harlrian.
Now Ganymede being the son of Laomedon of Troy, it is very unlikely
that he should have had any place among the asterisms of Cbaldea. He
is too late in time, (although not too remote in place,) to coosociate with
Digitized byGoogle
Nimrod, Chepheus, and Cushiopeia, whom l to myselfthe honour
of introducing to the reader's notice as occupants of the primitive sphere;
and it has beeri already remarked, that the original cup-bE'Brer of Jupiter,
was Aquarius:-the pourer forth of the waters, either of Tigris and Eu-
phrates-expressed by that double line of undulation =; which is his
ordinary symbol ; or those of the Nile ;• or those of that general de-
luge, of which we find organic vestiges in every country, and broken
traditions among every people of antiquity. Nor is this account unsus-
ceptible of philosophical construction; for where Jupiter was understood
to be the expanse above, the pourer forth of the waters below, might by
no overstrained analogy, be called his replenisher, or cup-bearer.
But there are other ancient Greek fables which may possibly have
been derived from the two Assyrian figures which are here under our
notice, or be of the same origin with them. In Sherburn's notes to "the
Sphere" of Manitius, he says " Some will have the Engonasis to repre-
sent Ixion ;" and certainly the wheel to which Jxion was condemned,
might with small aid of imagination, he conceived to be derived from the
circular radiation in the hand of Jupiter, which so dubiously expresses
arrows, sceptres, or spokes ; and the thunder-bolt which he brandishes
in his right hand, be as easily supposed to be that which drove the pre- •
sumptuous Thessalian king from the celestial regions.
Sherlmrn further says that " others will have the kneeling figure to
represent Theseus"-but it would too much retard the maio-stream of
our inquiry, to dwell upon all the various constructions which the Gre-
cian fabulists have put upon this group of stars. At the best that stream
must break over a rocky bed ; and the reader will determine whether or
* Mr. Payne Knight (see his "Inquiry," slatea that, 11 according to Pindar, .the most
orthodox, perhaps of all the poeb, Ganymede was not the son of Lao01edon, but a mighty
genius or deity who regulated or caused the overflowing• of the Nile by the motion of his feet•.
His being therefore the cup-bearer of Jupiter, means uo more than that he was the distributor
of the waters between heaven and earth." Mr. Knight bas just before Ob$erved that 11
fable of Ganymede the cup-bearer of Jupiter, seems to have arisen from some symbolic.& com-
position, at first misunderstood and afterwards misinterpreted."-But to punue this chain a£
reuoning might confound in the reader's imagination tbe stars of the northern hemitpbere._
which are here in question, with those of Aquarius.
Digitized byGoogle
"
138
not eJtOugh has been said, to imply that perhaps a majHtic constellated
figure, once engaged a considerable assemblage of stars in this quarter of
the Chaldean heavens, whose left hand was surrounded by that circular
group which we now term the stars of the Corona Borealis, or Crown of
Ariadne.
It will tend hut little, I fear, toward setting at rest the question of
whether a planet, or a constellatiou, he intended by this Jupiter-like
figure? that his right band is employed in wielding a thunder-holt, for
so I think the zig-zag or rectangular form which he holds aloft, must be
interpreted, although more angularly expressed than that symbolical or
diagrammatic thunderbolt, which has become among chemists and astro-
nomers, the conventional sign or character of the planet Jupiter, or than
that with which we are presented in the more elaborate sculpture of the
classical artists.
To him who may wish for my reasons, I would state that the more
natural, as well as more ancient, mode of inscribing this symbol was
angular. The meteorological character of the visible part of thunder (if
that expression may be allowed) is angular: and thunderbolts are thus
angularly expressed, by Salmasius; in the Aldus which I have before
• mentioned; and in other early typography: and also nearly thus in an
antique gem which has been copied-though very badly copied-by
Montfaucon, in his supplement
When the Grecian artists sculptured a thunderbolt, they evidently
thought of the description of the poets,- vague and indefinite though
Mr. Burke has pronounced it to he-and contrived to render the dire
object not less sculpturesque, than the thunder of Homer and Virgil was
terrible and poetical. Our Sabrean thunderbolt is far more simple; and
might have been thought unique in ancient lithography, but for the gem
produced by Montfaucon.
In that gem however, so far as can be judged of from his ill-drawn
representation of it, the thunder partakes a little more than in the present,
of the character 1/., which is now used to denote the planet Jupiter,
being somewhat curved at that end which is grasped by the Deity. But
perhaps I am dwelling too long on this subordinate and accessory thun-
Digitized byGoogle
139
der-bolt; which after aH, cannot prove more than that be who Wielda it
is Jupiter : not whether in the. Chaldean system, that personage was
planet, or constellation, or anght else. Neither does what we read of him
in Herodotus, Diodorus, and Pliny, in any degree clear up the obscurity
in which this point is involved. Tbe elements of troth, may perhaps be
found among them; but they want rarefying and analysing.
The construction of the word Belus, is, I believe, neither exactly Chat-
dean, Cufic, Arabic, nor Hebrew. Jt must have been originally either a
compound, or some other word with a resembling sound, belonging to,
what has been termed the original language of the East: which sound,
the Greeks modulated (as they did the proper names in general of the·
barbarians) into BHAOl:, as being more agreeable to a Gl'ecian ear. .By
most scholars, the radix is allowed to have been Beel, Bel, or Baiil;
which is in fact, the same word, varied by the differing dialectic pronun-
ciations of the several Sabrean nations; of which Mede says that Bel waa
the local orthodox pronunciation of Babylon and Chaldea; whilst Badl
appears to have been that of the Canaanites and Hebrews.
This word was sometimes employed as a prefix, or prrenomen; and at
others, as a post, or sub-fix, or cognomen-being equivalent to the Domi-
"'" of the Latin language, and to the word Lord in our own. Hence
while it was the most usual solar title, it hPcame the conferred or
assumed title of several mortal chiefs of renown; amongst whom might
be reckoned, the ltho-bdls, and that Abibadl, of Tyre, to whom Sancho-
niathon is said to have dedicated his Theogony: the Runic BAl-dur;
Hanni-bAl of Carthage; and Eth-badl, king ofthe Zidonians-the father of
that Jeza-bel, of whose atrocities we read in the first book of Kings.
By their own philosophical, or fabulous, or poetical, or musical, p•·o-
the reader pleases-the Greek mythologists appear to
bave elaborated from this Lord or Chief of the Sahrean idolatry, both
Jupiter and Apollo. The former, as Kiug of Heaven; the latter, as the
local deity of the Sun. And this is accounted for without the least cir-
cumlocution, and without room for the least suspicion of the sophistries
of scholastic refinement, when we recollect-that tlu SuN, and tAe KING
OF HEAVEN, were one and tke same at Bab!flon,-bat arAOft8' tlte Greeks
u·ere supposed to be separate existences. ·
Digitized byGoogle
140
I believe aU previous antiquarian writers have dissembled, or passed
over, their suspicions-if any suspicions they entertained-concerning
him whom the Greeks have called Belus; excepting that learned oriea-
ta1ist Sir William Drummond, who asserts of the barbarian names col-
lectively, as they have been rendered by the Greeks, that in all his read-
ing, he has not met with a single c01·rect rendering of any: yet they
appear to have altered Belus, in sound far less than some others, for Beel-
atb is literaiJy, lord of the sign-that is, the leading zodiacal sign: or
according to some Hebraists-when M,N is plurally regarded-Lord of
the signs of Heaven, would be meant. That Solomon conferred the name
of BaAI-atb or Beel-atb, on a city of his dominions, bas been already
noticed.
But while HerodotuH, Pliny, and others, treat of Jupiter-Belus as a
deity, Diodorus affirms that the o1·iginal Belus was an emigrant from
Egypt. How are these accounts to be reconciled?
I perceive no other so credible mode of reconciling them, as by sup--
posing that a human chief did in the remote depths of time, really arrive
with a colony, and did institute and endow an astronomical college, on
the banks of Euphrates, and that the name or title which this chief bore
or assumed, was Beel-utz, or some such expression : for in unorthogra-
phical ages, verbal nicetieR cannot he supposed to have existed. Abram
was of Ur, (of the Chaldees) and Job was of the land of Uz: the lord of
either of which places, or of a colouy migrating thence, would have borne
an appellation sufficiently near to that in question, for the purpose of our
argument. He would have been called Beel-ur, or Beel-uz.
Diodorus however is not altogether responsible here, for he only says,
this is " what the Egyptians affirm:" now, upon a point in which their
national vanity is involved-exceedingly vain of their remote antiquity,
as the Egyptians are known to have been,-we are not obliged to believe
them without due allowance, more than we are our friends the Greeks.
The same Egyptians also informed Diodorus that the most.ancient of
the kings of Egypt was the Sun! Upon this point therefore, he is not un-
likely to have been misinformed: his fact may be false, and the seeming
fable which he has connected with it, may IJe the fact,-orientally or meta-
Digitized byGoogle
141
phorically expressed: with this difference, that the chief in question
came, not from Egypt, but from the Arabian peoiu&ula; or perhaps·
(though I say this in conformity with th·e figurative pedigree which is
assigned to this chief by Diodorus) from the Afl'icao shores of the Red
Sea.
If this very ancient chief existed; he was not the son of Nimrod, as
some other authors have asserted : it is not reasonable to suppose that
the " proud opposer of the will of Jehovah," erected a temple to his own
son. It is far more likely that-as stated by Diodorus, he was the son
of Neptune and Lybia: that is to say, fabled to be so, because be was
born somewhere on the south western shores of the Arabian gulph.
It is not difficult to suppose that the ambition of such a chief, might
cause him to be known-as in after-ages the royal .Adadl of Damascus
were known-·by the appellation of the Sun himself, the great god of the
idolatry of his native ('ountry. Such assumptions, indeed, have ever
been common in the East. We are here on thedebateable land between
the territories of fable and fact : but in the Hebrew language, which·has
brought us our best records of these far distant ages, the principal scene
of them is called the plain ofShan-aar-that iii, ofthe Svn-and it appears
highly probable, that he who introdu<'ed the exotic worship of that lumi-
nary, would introduce with it, his exotic name; and would possess the
power of so employing it, that, after death, himselfshould be canonized
and constellated as Beel-uz, Bel-on, or whatever else may have been his
primitive and correct denomination; notwithstanding that the Sun-the
lord or chief of the Sabrean host-was also known and addressed by the
appellation Beel, Bel, or BaAl. It appears to me that Chepheus had
previously been thus coustellated in .lEthiopia, and that Nimrod, Rince
changed to Oriou, was also thus constellated by the astronomers of
Babylon, at abont the same era with Belus :-hut the constellations of
these latter chiefs, will be the subjects of future essays.
Having shewn how there may possibly have been a constellated Belus
on those sidereal charts, or chambers, of ancient Babylon which served
the purposes for which we now use an a.>1tronomical sphere; the coosi-
s
Digitized byGoogle
142
derations which attach to the idea of the majestic figure of our gems
Intended for the.planet Jupiter, are next to be seen.
·· ·Tbe first objects of the noCturnal adoration of the Sabreans, were
doubtless the fixed stars and the moon. After the five planets also-
" wanderers," or" interpreters," as they were variously termed of old-
came to be recognised and known; however imperfectly the courses of
those·planets may at first have been observed by the Chaldeans-names
must have been conferred on them; and in their sacred representatiomJ,
graven images, or personifications, of these erratic and mysterious inter-
preters, their figures must have been characteristically discriminated, to
the best of such powers of art as were then known and exercised. This,
according to Maimonides, Kissreus, and the Talmudists, supported by
the simple but remarkable fact of the ancient division of time into periods
of seven days each, Mmed after tAe have been from an era
exceedingly remote. How much earlier than the courtship ofthe patriarch
Jacob-in the history of which. we find the first scriptural mention of
weeks-cannot now be known.
But whenever the time, and whatever may have been the Chaldean•
name of the refulgent star which we call Jupiter, it would not be easy,
among those antiques ofBabylon, Canaan, or .lEthiopia, with which we are
yet acquainted, to point out a figure which could compete with the pre-
sent for the honour of being regarded as the representative of his angel,
or presiding spiritual intelligence.
To this internal graphic evidence, may be- added the impressive fact-
for so I deem it, both on this particular occasion and with reference to
my general system of explication-that, among tlwe cylindricalgems, I
have not yet met with a lingle iMtance where all tlte seven planets are ab-
snat. In fact, without one or more of these, what would be the sculp-
tured asterisms but·so many celestial consonants?
Now, on the gem before us, the commanding personage who is here
under our notice, is the only figure that by possibility of critical construe-
• I believe it was Maztsl·tob: the final syllable of which is lEthiopian, and means king.
Mutal ia 11ar. I suppoee, aa Matal·oth are stan of eigne; Masal-tob, is king ofslan.
Digitized byGoogle
143 .
tion, can be supposed to be intended as a personified platael: Bootes; the
Bear; Engonasin, and Aquarius-of which we are het"e:presented ·with
the primitive representations-having survived the ravages of time and the
wrecks of empires, as Sabrean may be deemed a
argument.
There is however, au :authority of solnewhat later date than Diodorus,
to whom, notwithstanding·his occasional vagueness and unce.-tainty, too
much respect is due for him to be passed without especial notice, sup-
poited as he is by some of the more ancient traditions :-Macrobius,
treats of the Jupiter of.Heliopolis, or Baal-bec, (originalJy, I believe, an
.11s89ria" idol,) ofwhom.he says,• " That this Jupiter is the same with the
Sun, appears as well by the religious rites with which he is worshipped,
as by the fashion of the image. The right-hand is lifted up, holding a
whip; the left holds a thunderbolt and some ears of com; all of which
denote the consociate powers ofJupiter and the Sun." · ·
It must be acknowledged that great indistinctness, and even
exists between the attributes of the gentile deities, wherever the light of
revelatioo, or that of astronomic science, bas not glanced. Every student
must have experienced this, who had occasion for a critical examination
and comparison of those authorities which classical scholars are taught to
respect. As the Sun appears on others of these antiques, in no question-
able shape, being sculptured orbicularly: and as it is now become so de-
sirable for the interests of learning, to clear up the obscurity, to disen-
tangle the confusion, and to reconcile, where it may be possible, the coQ-
tradictions, which I have regretted above; I was, and am, far from wish-
ing to increase the motives for scepticism_, by introducing to the public an
engraved personification and a spherical also, of the solar
luminary, both dug from the ruins of the same Babylon, and without any
efficient chronological clue by which to discover how widely apart from
each other, the execution of these works may have been in point of time.
But, to dissemble or suppress the doubts that here occur to me, because I
cannot dispel them ; would be still less commendable, because less candid
* In Saturnalia, lib. i. as rendered by Stanley.
s2
Digitized byGoogle
'
·144
and characteristic, from one who has already spoken with.some favour of
the belief that is founded on reasonable doubt.
The of poetical personification, and the settled ordination of the
mysterious rites of the popular symbolical deities, are allowed, in the ne.
cessary and actual progress of the human mind, to have been preceded by
.star worship. Authority for this I have already exhibited. In tAe eour1e
oftAe transition (for the change was not sudden) from the latter to the
former, were produced those multiform and many named deities, ofwhich
Zeus-Belus (otherwise Jupiter-Belus,) is one.-The Sun was, in the primi-
tive superstition, King, Lord,.or Ruler, of the diurnal heaven : In some
countries, the planet Jupiter gradually became so of the nocturnal heaven;
being the most refulgent of its stars : and at a later period, was venerated
Jove the tbunderer; the supreme deity ofthe symbolical ages: the poetical
and popular ruler of the upper regions of air.
Hence, we find him invoked with great sublimity by Aratus, as the
supreme and omnipotent Sire-the wonder and the bliss of man! Hence
Homer, Herodotus, and Diodorus, speak of him as king of heaven and
chief of the polytheistic pantheon of Olympian deities: but to the retro-
spections of Macrobius, and it would seem, to the existing theology of
the author of the Orphic hymns, he must have been seen as it were in
transit; or felt as a scarcely coherent mixture, borne up, and kept aloft
by a dense spirit of superstitious devotion, which presumed not to at-
tempt discrimination, and to which dark and indefinite dilatation, was
awful mystery.
Hence too Dr. Prichard in his recent and able " Analysis of the Or-
phic-Fables," states that "the title of Zeus, or Jupiter, which we have
seen appropriated to the universal deity in these poems, is applied in
other fragments to the god of the solar orb." Among the proofs of this,
he cites the following invocation from Macrobius, which appears to have
reference to the statue which I have mentioned above as having been seen
by that·writer at Baal-bec.
" 0 thou, who wbirlest thy radiant globe, rolling on celestial wheels
through the spacious vortex of Heaven! Glorious Jupiter!"
- " thou Sun! who art the genial parent of nature." He further
Digitized byGoogle
145
addresses the same deity, as also " Dionusos,• and father of the
sea and land !"-But such rhapsodical inconsistency who shall profess
thoroughly to comprehend or to understand? ·
Yet, as Dr. Johnson writes that " inconsistencies as applied to human
productions, (and the various systems of ancient mythology are no other)
may both be true," I have (I added a fresh instance to the al-
ready abundant stock of the vanity of human wishes, by ·desiring to dis-
cover and reveal, whether, how far, ·at what time, and by wha(course of
transition, the Grecian Jupiter, has, or bas not, been generated between
the supposed astral of the planet Jupiter, and the attributes of
the vernal Sun. ·
The Baal, or Beel-the acknowledged lord of the Babylonian heavens,
was the Sun. The lord of the heavens ofthose Greeks ihrough whose
writers we derive our acquaintance with Jupiter-Belus, and who made a
point of finding own deities in every country, was Zeus, or Jupiter.
Hence, among other mistakes, or wilful perversions from a patriotic mo.
tive, may have been generated Jupiter Belus. At the same time we must
allow it to be far within possibility, that a memorable ·conjunction of the
Sun and the planet Jupiter, ill understood by the Greeks, or·purposely
misrepresented, or mystified by the Babylonians, may have suggested
this conjunctive while it gave birth to the majestic figure which
is here the main subject of inquiry. I shall eventually submit a compu-
tation resting on this hypothesis.
Of the resemblance between this figurt: and the description of that
seen by Macrobius at Baal-bec, the reader must judge for himself. Proof
submitted to the eyes, is perhaps of all species of evidence, the Jea8t
likely to be aft'ected by what others may say. By the emblems or sym-
bols which were held by the Heliopolitan statue, " denoting the conso-
ciate powers of Jupiter and the Sun:' Macrobius (a pagan of the age of
Constantine) must have meant,-if any definite meaning in his
mind-that the thunderbolt was the symbolical sceptre of the regions of
Jupiter or upper air; and the whip, that which was fabled to urge the
diurnal course of the Sun "rolling on celestial wheels.'' Ears of corn
• How this notion of the Sun being also Dionu1101 or Bacchus, c:ame to obtain, will be ex-
plained in my nnt euay, on the sign BoOtes or Osiris.
Digitized byGoogle
146
are not immediately significative ofeither: and Macrobios, upon the same
symbolical system of principles might, with better reason perhaps, have
consociated Ceres also, of whom com has ever been esteemed the gift and
the emblcmatical representative: but it is possible that if we had the
Heliopolitan figure before us, we might discover arrows-the symbol of
the SQn's rays according to the poetry .of IJomer ; of hail according to
that of..cEschylus-in what appeared to Macrobius to be ears of com.
That the leading doctrines of the judicial astrology of the Chaldeans,
are essentialJy the same with those which have descended through Be-
rosu$ and Ptolemy to its modern adepts, wiU gradually be developed as
we proceed, and according to these, by the COftlociate powers of Jupiter
&Qd the Sun, we can properly understand nothing but the temporary
appeBrance of those planets in some powerful and auspicious configura-
tion; and, most likely, their conjunction; that is, their presence in the
same:zodiacal sign 01' mansion. .
. Their conjunction. (which would have been memorably auspicious to
the native of the present boroscope)-either in tbe sign Leo, which is the
proper astrological domicile, or bouse of tbe Sun; or in that of Sagitta-
rius, which is the mansion of Jupiter, may doubtless have been the sub-
ject of a Sabman statue or hieroglyph: but then, (as the astronomical
reader might justly remark) to have been permanently intelligible, the
same mystic combination should have presented also some allusion to
Leo or to Sagittarius: and in either event, such a temporary conjunction
probably of not more than a few weeks duration, could not satisfactorily
claim possession of the mass-or rather brood-of those ideas ofJupiter
Belos, which have been generated by the Grecian mythologists.
. The latter part of this argument is granted: but we are not called
upon to account for this Grecian brood ; which may .be spurious. And
concerning the former part-namely that the engraving or the statue,
should have presented allusion to the place of the conjunction, had
a conjunction of these planets been intended to be expressed-1 shall
presently return to it.
Amid these uncertainties, the reader's powers of attention shall be re-
spected; and that portion which I cannot honestly meet and usefully en-
Digitized byGoogle
147
gage, I will not endeavour to dissipate in numerous and .petty researches.
I shall trouble him with little more with regard to the present figure;-
The want of the ocular sculptured faet which has been the subject of
the comments of Macrobius, iH much to be regretted. When the devotees
and hierophants formed their statues of gold, they condemned theit
deities to a short Jived immortality. Could we behold his Heliopolitan
Jupiter, which doubtless was the result of Grecian refinement operating
on Sabrean simplicity, it would perhaps appear (as I have already inti-
mated) that what Macrobius has called ears of corn, were in reality in-
tended for arrows. The dissimilarity between rudely sculptured arrows,
and ears of corn, would not be great: and M. L'Abbe Tressan• asserts-
( earnestly wish that be had enabled us to know and criticise his ancient
authorities for a fact so pertinent to our present inquiry-that one of the
Jupiters was sculptured "witk arrows in kis hand." While I ·confess
that I have nowhere met with either ancient record, or sculptured ex-
ample, of such a representation of Jupiter-unless the present should be
thogght such-1 must add, that it is not difficult to divine a reason for
such a representation, in full accordance with the system of predictive
arcana which holds together the antique mysteries of the Sabrean super-
stition, and at the same time applicable to the monument before us : for
as I have already intimated, Sagittarius, or tke arcAer, was esteemed to
be the proper astrological station of the efiluent virtues of this most
powerful planet.
In the Asiatic astronomy I can nowhere find that Sagittarius was
either denominated, or represented, as a Centaur. On the contrary the
terms by which this sign was known to the Arabians, Persians, ChaldeaRS
and Hebrews, all signify arrows, and in the age of .Eratosthenes it was
represented, as it is still represented on the antique sphere of the Farne-
sian gallery, by a figure which is at once Archer and Satyr:t Spence
adds on the same, Grecian, authority, that he was the very satyr who tu·
nsted Jupiter so much in his wars against the rebel giants: Aratus, who
is believed to have copied his " Phenomena" from the sphere of En-
* In his work on Heathen Mythology. t Eratosthenes de Sideribua, Art. if.
Digitized byGoogle
148
do.xus,• calls Sagittarius (as this Latin name implies) simply " tile A.r·
cller with his bended bow."t
It can scarcely be necessary to dwell on the circumstance, (which
seems to be mystically connected with the above legend as it reached
the ear of Eratostbenes)-viz. that the sign Sagittarius has ever been
esteemed the proper domicile, or station of power, of the planet Jupiter.
Ask a modern astrologer in what part of the zodiac "Jupiter joyeth ?,
and be will immediately reply, " in Sagittarius"-quoting his venerated
authorities, if you wish for them, from Ptolemy downward : in short,
from hence, Jupiter has been supposed to shed his most potent influence,
from the earliest Cbaldean dawning of the science, down to ils present
evening twilight.-We come now to the mathematical part of our argu-
ment.
If the reader pleases here to revert to his globe already elevated to the
latitude of Babylon, with Fomalhaut just rising above the south-eastern
horizon, he wiJJ find the brass meridian-where?-He will find it passing
acro11 Sagittaritu; which, when taken with what Is above disclosed,
forms a linked and luminous chain of sidereal circumstances, that may
assist us beyond all book-learning, in assigning the true name and mean-
ing to our majestic and mysterious figure, and in ascertaining the precise
state of the material heavens, at the tinie of birth of the native of the
present horoscope.
The planet Jupiter, then, if I rightly interpret, bas here attained his
meridian altitude, and is posited in his own peculiar mansion of might
and dignity, holding forth his arrows; (presuming arrows to have been
intended by the artist) brandishing his thunder, and betokening a full
tide of heroic virtue and success, to the happy original possessor of the
present signet; for his patron planet is here, lord of the sign, lord of the
hour, and lord of the geuiture.
There are several reasons, and some of them strong ones, for our be-
* The " Phenomrna of Aratua,.. it said to he nothing more than the sphere of Eudoxua
put into elegant Greek verse: for it baa been obae"ed to have all the same a1iatakea exactly,
with the treatiae of Eudoxua...-Coltard'• Hill. qf Jflh'Miomy, p. liO. t From Cicero'•
veniou u rendered by Dr. Franklin.
Digitized byGoogle
149
Jieving that the group of stars which are now constellated as the Corona
Australis, and which at the hour of the present nativity were on the me-
rid.ian with Jupiter, are those denoted on our monument by the radiat-
ing arrows; and that they have formerly been reckoned in the asterism
Sagittarius.-These reasons are-the.circularity of their
(the segment being allowed for); the of stars originally reckoned
in this asterism; the doubt whether two crowns so similar as this and
the Corona Borealis, would have found places on the. primitive
the finding the meridian ofthe present h()roscope across these stars;
the that neither Aratus, Vitruvius, nor Manilius, recorded
any such constellation as the Corona Australis; and·the assertion of Dr.
John Hill that "the Greeks seem to have considered the Southern-crown
as part of Sagittarius, and not without reason."
· Lucian who-as we .have seen-argues the £thiopian origin of astro-
nomy, sayM of this most ancient and celebrated of the nations that handle
the bow; and the probable inventors of archery itself; that they placed
arrows in their hair, precisely in the manner exhibited on our gem.
and as. we find the stars of the Corona. The words of Lucian as.ren-
dered by his translator, Tooke,• are (speaking in general terms of
the -LEthiopians individually:) " his head .serves him. for a quiver, being
stuck round with like so many rays." If then the -LEthiopian
archers of the earliest ages, marched thus to battle, we may not wonder
that radiating arrows-:-whose. analogy with light also, is so strikingly
obvious, were read.ily associated with id,eas of military glory. Hence the
most. ancient crowns were spikated circles, as if intended to represent
rays emanating from the head.of the wearer; and thehead of the
A polio so famed for its colossal dimensions, which was
may have been remotely copied from those,-radiant with arrows,-()f
the ancient heroes who in the .remotest depths of time, peopled the
southern snores of the Red Sea, and of the Arabian peninsula.t
* Tooke's Lucian, vol. ii. p. i25. t The bead-dreaa of the chief mourner at Ota.-
heite, affords a pertinent example of this species of decoration:· and if I am not mistaken,
among the savage nations visited by Captain Cook, be met with other people, who in a similac-
wanner place arrows in their hair.
T
Digitized byGoogle
'
J.'SO
Another branch of the mathematical part of our argument, it may be
expected, should bear relation to the time wheo the present engraving
waa executed. Its precise date, is a point surrounded by too mauy un-
certaintiE>S, for me to presume to think of attempting to specify it. I can
only offer a few hints, and put an hypothetical case.
According to tbe explication just concluded, the horoscope is noctur-
:aal, and represents a state of the celestial pbeoomena which must recur
once in the course of e?ery reYolutioo of tht- planet Jupiter-that is to
say,-in about twelve of our yeal'8. If on the other hand, a ooojunctioo
of the Sun and Jupiter, on the meridian of the Corona Australis, be
hieroglyphically expressed, and should the horoscopE' (according with
the Heliopolitan statue which is mmtioned by Macrobius) be 4iiurnal-
the places of the constellations known by computation---such a
conjunction in this part of Sagittarius, does not take place oftener
than once in about 1080 years; (as has beeu computed for me by an
emineot adept in astronomical science) and the last time that these pia·
nets were thus posited, was in the close of December 1781. They were
therefore thus posited in the year of our era 702 ; again in the year 818
before Christ; and again in the year 1468 before Christ.
Leaving the latest of these three eras out of the question: the year 378
was not very long before the invasion by Alexander, of the part of Asia
where the present gem was found ; and notwithstanding that "the queen
of nations" bad been of many of her royalties by Cyrus and by
Darius, her SabEan superstition remained : this may therefore be the
true date of the cylinder. If the reader should see reason to refer it to a
prior revolution of the celestial phenomena ; we find that superstition
in the year B. C.l468, riding high in the heavens; near its probable zenith
at .Babylon; and we find lt!rael following Moses through the desart, or
enpged in dispossessing the of the land of milk and honey.
The latest in time of these two eras, appears to me the more probable
date, judging from the style, and from the degree of skill and attainment
in the practical part of gem-engraving, which is displayed on the cylin-
der. It will be recollected that this date cannot be far from that of the
appearance of the Persian darics.
Of the subject of this monument, a single figure remains, the meaning
Digitized byGoogle
lSI
of which is 10 obrioua, tllat, I ran small hazard in pronowncing him by
aniieipation, tn be the CODBtellatioo Aquarius.
Aquarius as here represented-is a v«y simple, bea1'decl figure, WYap.
ped from head to foot in the winter robe (as may readily be suppeeed)
Gf Babylonia, mad pouring forth water from his Taee on a smaU or
star without rays; which is unquestionahly that stAr of the first magni-
tude, whicll the Arabians have called Fomalhaut, and whieh,
ial Arabian name, still oecupies the very place on the sphere, w the
stream from the pitcher, or Situla, of Aquarius, ends at present: tbis
iu:t, of the 6uxioa from the l'ase of the water-bearer ending at .Fomal-
haut, having undergone not the slightest alteration in descending from
the Chaldean ages to the present.
Of allegorical figures, or personifications of the striking and important
phenomena of inanimate nature, none can easily be more simple aad in-
telligible than a water-god. It is sufficiently simple and uesopbisticated,
1o have been the very first. It calls upon us but for a single and easy
stretch of imagination, and that of the most obvious kind. We haTe to
fancy the fountain sufficiently copious to be ever flowing, and that is all.
One of the celestial constellations, at least then, in this Tiew of the sub-
ject, appears to be a sculptured metaphor: and wltat I
have written ·in a preceding page, of the worship of the ph,\nets being
prior to that of the elements, it may be allowed me to observe, that the
of symbols, and the constellating of the stars, appear to have
been coeval, or nearly so in their origin; the same considerably advaneed
state of the human understanding and imagination, being neee8sary to
both: and perhaps Sir, I may here be permitted, with due deference, to
remark, that notwithstanding what I have cited from your l42nd section,
you yourself have entertained doubts, or have thought with me on the
whole; for iu section 137, you say, " the signs of the zodiac, were taken
from the mystic symbols!' The symbolizing principle, I conceive must
have been known, or felt in a budding sort of way, when the zodiac was
formed. If the zodiacal animals, be emblems, (88 you have stated;) the
Balance also (if a primitive asterism) is unequivocal in its meaniog; and
a Water-god in very singleness of is a poetical eft"usion.
T2
Digitized byGoogle
152
In the present instance, it would appearfrom the two streains which·
flow forth from the same vase, the Tigris and Euphrates· were known
or believed to have a·common origin, and that at least this asterism of the
zodiac is indigenous to Chaldea, and not transplanted, or adopted, .from
Egypt, .lEthiopia, or any other country whatever. I have in a former·
page, remarked on the high value of sculptured·facts, the information·
they afford when we are fully masters of their meaning,· being at once·
illustrative and immutable. Permit me to avail myself of
nity of reimpressing that remark on the public attention. In Egypt one·
river Bows from various sources. Here two rivers proceed from a single
source.
The interesting problem, in what country the zodiac was invented? is
without any decided solution, from the classical ages to the present.
There is indeed a general prevalence of opinion in favour of Egypt, but
no and Mr. Costard's• pre-determination in favour of Greece;
has converted an astronomer of science and a writer of some power, into·
a blind beggar,of the question. Envying the barbarians the invention ·of
the sublimest of the sciences.-Greece has done nothing toward clearing
up these doubtful pretensions-or perhaps baH even done worse: what
additional evidence it is now possible to obtain, must be sought for in
* The and science of this gentleman are very considerable. I acknowledge with
gratitude the great benefit that I have received at his bands: but in his treatise "On the riae
of Astronomy among the Ancients"·his avowed was « to restore to the Greeks the bo-:
nour of inventing what the world generally supposes them only to have borrowed ;" and the
ardour with which be baa followed this "main design," as be terms it, baa evaporated biupirit
of research. 'However praiseworthy in his" History of Astronomy," which I believe is a later
performance, be here &buts his eyes to conviction, and becomes-what I have called him in
the text.
Thua forewarned, it becomes me to hope I may not have fallen, and may not fall, into
similar error in vindicating, and endeavouring to restore their lost'honours to, Babylon and the
Chaldean Astronomy. Notwithstanding Mr. Costard write:s-witb a seeming integrity of faith
in the originality of the "in the time of Eudoxus there might be read in the
He!lvens the ancient history of their most tllustrious families during the poetical ages;" he finds
himself obliged in a note, not to repress that "If Achillea Tatius may be depended upon,
other nations bad of their own." Of the foundation of this doubt of the
veracity of Achilles Tatius, Mr. Coetard has not been pleased to inform ue.
Digitized byGoogle
163
eucb ·monuments as the present: and m the internal evidence of the
zodiac itself. . .
As far as respects this asterism of Aquarius, certainly the Assyrian
representation is more simple than that of Egypt, and that is itself
argument: for the progress of man has been universally from simplicity
to refinement. Here two streams flow from the same vase, as, according
to Strabo, the Euphrates. and Tigris, both issue from mount Taurus;
Egypt bas refined upon this ; but still-more honest or more unweeting
than refined, with eRpecial reference as it would seem, to
the Tigris and Euphrates, by placing an urn in either hand of Aquarius
in the celebrated zodiacs ·of .Esne and Dendera. We .may: therefore
with some confidence, pronounce the present figure to be the Babylonian
Aquarius, and not that of any other country; .by which I mean:the per-
sonified source, and pourer forth, of the annual fertility of Mesopotamia
and the circumjacent country: Or-if we regard those very remote ages
which preceded ·the.cutting of the Assyrian* canals-the pourer forth of
that deluge which was annually consequenfto the melting of the snows
of Armenia.
In my essays on the very curious cylinders of. Mr. Rich and Sir.Wm.
Rouse Boughton, will be shewn that the Pleiades, Virgilia, or s.tars. of
the vernal rains, are in the. Chaldean system, denoted by small rayleM
orbs : observing that Fomalhaut is also thus specified on the present
hrematite, perhaps Sir, you will incline with: me to believe that the,an-
cients distinguished their ardent and dry stars, from those of moist efilu-
ence, by representing the former with points or rays, and the latter as
little balls, without rays. On the more ancient of these Babylonian
• In Forster'' learned geographical diuertation on the Anabasis of Xenophon, be writes" In
marching through the country of Babylon, they came to the canals which were cut between the
Tigris and Euphrates, in as most authors agree, to circulate the waters of the latter,
which would otherwise drown all the adjacent country when the sno\Vs melt upon the Arme-
nian mountains. Xenophon says these canal& fall out of the into the Euphrates ; whereas
Strabo and Pliny say the contrary.-Our modem travellers inform us that the country between
these two rivera, is in these parts rich low land aomething like the province of Hotland: 10 that
it ia more than probable that these canals wer.: cut to circulate the watera of the one river as
much a» the other."
Digitized byGoogle
1M
gems, wiMte die solar orb appeara, it is alwaJs nd._t, bat tbe mooa is
always without rays: and in the present instance, while the lltar wiMeh
&ermia&tes tile streams fiom the 'fate of Aquarius, is without raya, a star
at the other extremity of the gem, wt.ieh I ha•e interpreted to be Are·
turM, or with more probability tbe ancient Pole-staf, bas eight ditMiuet
rays or small poiBts.
MY cllief solicitude tlarooghoot these essays, beiag the ascertainment
of aacieat truths, and to acquire and exercise the means of bringing
tbem to a focus; I can have oo objection, but the contrary, to allow
dw8e tl'utbs t1o emanate, or throw forth their light divergently : Where-
dao1e scholars who would trace all stellar information, and all ao-
eitM mythological opinion, up to the book of Genesis as to their fountain
Mad-no fartller, and ia no other directioo,-will be extremely welcome
to auppoae, as tbey may with a degree of probability not for me to contra..
•eoe, that the amigma of this ancient Babylonian group, speaking of it
collectively-is to be snccessfully solved only by reference to the cosmo.
8"DY of the Peotateocb.
.From what has beee adftDCed, it is clear that we cannot look with
any rational hope of satis&.ctory espYcatioa, to the legeods of Greece,
er Roeae, and scarcely witllmore to those olEgypt, unless they had been
wlaicb they have not-to have originated in a com111on source
1rida those of Assyria.• It is not less clear, that we should look-if we
could ind them-to the history and the l•nds of Chaklea, whose more
aacieot.pu&.lic records have beeo at two se\leral periods destroyed by the
ambitious pride, or foolish vanity, of her ancient kings ; and those of
subsequent date by her Mohammedan conquerors.
An account of the great deluge of Noah or Xixuthrus, is however
among the preserved fragments of Berosus, as well as among our owo.
• Sir William Drummond wiU excuee the retention of a aentence which was wriUeu before
bis lewned diuertatioa oo the Zodiacs of Elae and Dendera reached my bands. I shall find
another opportunity ofo&ring my of bit hypotheais concerning the original forma.-
tioo of the Zodiac, with which mine respecting Aquarius is by no means ioccunpatible.
Digitized byGoogle
sacred records; and if we can believe-as we easily may-that the me-
mory of any terrestrial event, would be astronomically perpetuated, by a
people who believed themselves taught from Heaven that the stars were
for signs-that itJ to say, ifwe can Huppose that in an unlettered age, such
earthly occurrences would be traditionally enregistered in the celestial
regions, or so connected with the fixed stars, that when the posterity of
the early post-diluvians looked up at those stars, they might be instructed
to associate ideas of past events with their splendid re-appearances-
surely the important advent of the miraculous preservation of mankind,
would not be overlooked, or forgotten.
Hence, whether we regard the figure with the thunderbolt and arrows,
as a personified conjunction of Jupiter with the Sun, or as an ancient but
dispossessed asterism of the sphere, we may perhaps behold in him and
in Aquarius, the pourer forth, and drier up, of the waters of the Deluge,
and probably the subsequent origin of some of those legends of Jupiter
and Typhreus, which have embellished the poetry of Orpheus and of
Hesiod.
In support of this hypothesis, we may observe: first, That the waters
from the vase of Aquarius fall upon a small sphere. Secondly-That
the majestic figure,
" Jehovah, Jeve, or Lord,"
as be holds both arrows and thunderbolt, may be thought to express
symbolically, the power both of the sun and air in drying up those waters;
for arrows have ever been held to be symbolical of the rays of the Sun :
and, of the prince of the powers of the air, the thunderbolt may well be
received as an appropriate emblem :-here then we have Jupiter in his
principal Grecian character. Thirdly, The kneeling figure, is sufficiently
expressive ofthat of Typhreus (or Typhon) the dmmon of the deluge; as
be, with reference to the supreme Zeus or Jupiter, is characterised in the
Theogony of Hesiod. I have the honour to be-Sir, veryrespectfully, &c.
Digitized byGoogle
ESSAYVI.TOTHE RT. HON.THE EARL OF MACCLESFIELD, F.R.S.&c.&c.
MY LoRD.-Your Lordship bas hereditary claims on the gratitude of
Astronomy, and claims on mine. I have therefore done myself
the honour of addressing the present Essay to the grandson of that Earl
of Macclesfield, who-himself a considerable adept in astronomical
science-was the great patron of the astronomers of his age and country ;
and who so worthily filled the chair of the Royal Society.
Digitized byGoogle
· Its subject is a discovery which it wu my «ood tbrtlme fD atellie.Ye iii
the course of certain investigatiODS into tile IIK"'Iiling of a VetJ ctuiMs
Chaldean monument, which was disiaterred at Babylon and hl'Mpt te
Eogland by my frieml Captain Abraham .Lockett; aud u it tends moni
perhaps than any circumstance that hu yet traaspired, to CGilnect the
ancient mythological fables ofGreeee and Egypt, with tbe more aBeieat
mystic rites of the ; while by exhibiting them in an 1R1Cloadal
transit, it elucidates botb, I flattao myMif that it may DOt pron unworth,.
of the fuourable attention of your Lordship.
Whilst engaged in those investigations, I assumed, and entErtained a
a while, the mistaken supposition, that the signet which is the nbjeet of
the preceding essay, might allude to tlae aoocesaive departures, at S...
rise or at S11n-set, aad ia the latitude of Babylon, of tbe stars of BoOtes
and Ursa Major; which gave JOe occuion co institute certain utrono"
mical examinations and comparisons, in the cool'88 of wlaich the di.
covery was made.
Should any of my readers, arriYing at tbis acknowledgment OD my
part, think it desirable that I should .bere have set before them ancl be-
fore your Lordship, the short resulta 'of my ratber thaa the pro-
gress-and what may possibly be tenned the wanderinga-ofmy thoushtl,
concerning these Sabean cylinden ; and that I should have aupprell88d
what I confess to haYe proceeded from a mistaken hypothesi•; may I
be permitted to state that I Atme suppressed all that I did not feel or tlriok
would be conducive to truth and perspicuity: all that did not appear to
me to tend (in the of Verstegan) to tbe "restitutio• ofdecayed
intelligence." And if I did in this instance set out upon a wroog ec:eat,
I shall probably be allowed to punoe the aoble game which I star&ed..
Bot, that I distrust my own qualifications for the kind of iraduo-
tive abstraction which I here contemplate; it baa beeo, and still il, a
problem with me, whether in the preseat scanty state of our knowledge
of Chaldean sculptures-of which De Pauw believed that not a eingle
one had descended to modern times•-it be not wiser to place the few
• "In no counh'y do we fiad Cbaldeao etatuet or miiMHilellb.''-nOIIIIOII'• ,..,.,u,s.n qf
De Pawl' Philolophical on tk a.n...,
Digitized byGoogle
.' I •l
.. '
I • .
·'
1·
r 1,
·.
158
facts we have yet attained, or may at present find attainable, in the fa·
riotis·lights·ofwhich they may be found susceptive,:so as to possess our-
selves as fully as possible.of their true and particular meaning-and even
to.hazard the· reproach of prolixity in so doing-than to.attempt the sort
of :brief concentration of evidence, which may be drawn from coins or
such other antique monnmentR; as are abundant in their .numbers, and of
which Mr. Payne Knight's " Inquiry into the .Symbolical Language .of
Ancient Art and Mythology," affords an example so excellent in point.of
style, taste, and arrangement. : Nor can I omit to recollect here the
learning and science which are displayed by. Sir William Drummoud, in
his·" Memoir on the Zodiacs of Esne.and Dendera," and other highly
valued. productions. If my dark. gems :may be placed in the focus of
researches ;thus perseveringly and .effectively carried on ;-if I can sur-
round them by discoveries thus wisely promu1gated, and they may hence
be:,permitted .to: absorb ligbt,-1 .think I. can venture to promise yollr
Lordship, that they will be found capable of emitting it.in their turn, like
the emerald of the Tyrian Hercules.•
I ·shall therefore not withhold myself from the pleasure of submitting
to your Lordship, the follo'wing observations, chiefly
while:they may serve to correct or confirm some of the details of my
earlier remarks on the constellated Husbandman now called Bootes, and
to illustrate the ancient mystic.legend.of Isis and Osiris, which bas be€
m
so ·variously yet so vaguely understood and .interpreted, cannot fail to
impress my general argument of the astronomical character arid anti-
. .
quarian,importance, of these curious hrematite, carnelian, and chalcedony
engravmgs.
I shall in the first place, endeavour to shew more clearly than I have
hitherto shewn; how I conceive it to have happened that Adonis, or Osiris,
or Baechus, or Sabazhis-for by the latter name also, I find this sub-
deity sometimes· mentioned even at Athens-was at first mistaken ·for
* "I made a voyage to Tyre in Phmnicia, where is a temple of Hercules held in great vene-.
ration. Among the various offerings which enriched and adorned it, I aaw two pillar' ; the
one was of the purest gold ; the other of emerald which in the night diffused an extraordinarJ!
5pleodour.''-&loe's Herodonu; Euterpe, cb. xliv.
Digitized byGoogle
159
tAe Sun. Should I succeed in this, your Lordship will easily appre-
hend why the mistake-being handed without critical examination from·
age to age and from writer to writer-bas continued for so many centu-
ries. .I shall afterward describe and exhibit some astronomical pheno-
mena and computations, with due references to the outline at the head of
the present Essay,-which may perhaps be allowed to throw new light,
at once on the mystic rites of the ancient festivals of Adooosiris; Bacchus,
or Sabazius; on those of the religious initiations of antiquity ; and on the
interesting gem of which an enlarged developement appears at the head
of the paper which precedes the present.
It will here be obvious to your Lordship that, our chief purposes being
to identify an ancient constellation, and to ascertain a place correspond-
ing in latitude to the phenomena of the annual transits of that
lation ; it would be useless-though not without examples of some au-·
thority among men of letters-to accmnulate words, by adding another
name to those of the JEthiopian and Egyptian demi-god, unless it brought·
fresh light to bear on questionable facts, or to illustrate truth; nor have
l without prospect of such light, introduced that of Sabazius.
Both Aristophanes and Cicero, treat of the sub-deity Bacchus, under
the name of Sahazius, or Saba-Zeus, which being literally the God of
Saba, points, with our astronomy and our venerated authorities, directly
to Saba,• as the place of his origin; either the Saba eastward of the·
Arabian gulph, or that lately sought for by Messrs. Waddington and
Hanbury, of which Herodotus writes, that only Jupiter and Bacchus are
there worshipped; which I should construe to mean.that tke King of
Heaven (the Sun) was the diurnal and the chief objectof their adoration;
and the constellated Husbandman, their local and peculiar, nocturnal sign.· ·
That every Saba!an people had their peculiar, or tut-elary, constellation,
or nocturnal sign, is shewn further on in the present volume, and will be
repeatedly illustrated.
A passage of the Abbe Banier, combines the -results of the learned
quiries of Strabo and Vossius on these interesting points. " As for the
* There was also a Saba-chus, an lEthiopian monarch and conqueror, who over-ran Egypt,
Bac-Chus and Saba-Zeua, were the aame, either comtellated, or mortal, individual : Saba-
Chua might either bout of the same mythological deacent, or was in fact, of the aame family.
u
Digitized byGoogle
::1
' :
I
t'
:I
II
166
Su,. it i• certain that they (the 1Ethiopians) adored him so highly as to
repute those to be Atheists who di4 not acknowledge him for a God, as
bas been now said, after Strabo. And becauli!e he was their great divi-
nity, the Greeks and Romans gave him the name of 1Ethiopian Jupiter;
and that, with so much the more reason, (remarks the learned Vossius)
that in all the East and among the nations of Afric, Jupiter not only.re-
presented Heaven, but also the Sun.,
I ought perhaps to have cited these authorities when I treated of the
identity of the Solar God of the Sabmans, and the Grecian Jupiter, in
the essay which I have done myself the honour of addressing to Mr.
Payne Knight: but the truth is, they were not in my mind at tl.ae time.
In his next page the author proceeds, "This in short, is all that we
kpow from the ancients, of the religion of the .lEthiopians : nay we are
tWt able ezactly to wlaat LEthiopiatU tiey mean; and in allpro-
IHibility it was the Oriert.tals, and not those of Afric. And indeed, what
Theophrastus tells of the care which tke Sabll!ana, an Arabian Ratima,
bad to gather incense and cinnamon to offer it to the Sun, is the same
with what Strabo says of the ./Etkiopiana..,.
This is a valuable passage ; and Bauier's preceding chapter has in-
foriJ:led us on "the testimony of Arabian authors," collected by M.
Fourmont, that "the Idolatry of the Arabians is older than the Deluge:"
and on that of Strabo " that they made a daily offering of incense to the
Sun or to Dionysius," and that" the Sabreans carefully collected myrrh
and incense, to offer it in the temple of that God."
By the words" that God," I understand here the solar deity; and I
t.hiok in the preceding sentence, instead of "or to Dionysius," we should
r.ead, aad to Dionysius. The meaning appears to me to be, that they
burnt incense every day to the Sun, and at nigkt to the Dionysian stars;
for the rites of Dionysius, or Sabazeus, were nocturnal.
As the two Sabas in question-namely, that to the Eastward, and that
to the Westward, of the Arabian gulph, to the best of our geographical
knowledge, were nearly under the same parallel of latitude, it might be
difficult-perhaps impracticable-for astronomy to distinguish between
them, where history has not ; but, from one or the other of these ancient
* Banier'a "Mythology and Fables of the Ancients explained from History," vul. i. cb. ix.
Digitized byGoogle
16l
cities, 1 trust it will eventually appear, that the rites of the constellated
Husbandman; otherwise termed the·Baccbic, Sabazean, or Osirian
teries, originally came, to Egypt; to Phrenicia; and subsequently to
Greece.
Some little confusion must be allowed to exist in the record of Hero-
dotus, as to the channel by which these rites flowed into Greece • from
the fountain bead, but this is of no consequence to my argument. The
mysteries were introduced by Melampus, either directly from Egypt, or
through Phrenicia, and by means of Cadmus and his Tyrian companions.
The comic poet of Athens, and the orator of Rome, contribute their
valuable testimony to the same purport-carrying our retrospectiom to
a somewhat more remote era, and perhaps more decidedly to Arabia.
They not only confer on this sub-deity, the name or title of Sabazeus, but
state in effect that, during the age of the former, the learned of Athens
believed Bacchus and his rites to be of Asiatic origin; which is to say
that they proceeded at first from the Oriental.lEthiopia.
Had not these things been so, and had not Sabazius been known at
Athens as a name or title of Bacchus, a critic and a wit so justly cele-
brated for the accuracy of his notices, as Aristopbanes, would not in his
comedies, have repeatedly mentioned the deified Husbandman, or God of
Wine, under his Sabman designation :t nor would Tully in another age
• The reader will easily discover the inadvertency on the part of Herodotus to which I here
allude (if Mr. Beloe's translation be faithful) by comparing the middle with the: conclusion of
ch. xlix. in Euterpe. In the former place, the wise and learned diviner, Melampus, is stated
to have been "Instructed by the Egyptians in various ceremonies, and particularly in those
which relate to Bacchus. With some few trifling changes, be brought them into Greece :"
but in the close of the Chapter, we meet with, "I rather think that Melampus learned all tboee
particulars which relate to the worship of Bacchus, from Cadmus and hia Tyrian companions,
when they came from Pbamicia."
t " l:ABAZIOl: is one of the names for Bacchus, as we see it in the comedies of Aristo-
phanes. In the beginning of his Vespe, we meet with" a drowline# from Sabasiru p011e41e1
me." The above is a note to Franklin's translation of Cicero's book on the nature of the Gods,
p. 229. Now, before a dramatic writer would venture to introduce on the public 1tage and
before an Athenian audience, a character who felt or fancied himself aleepy from wine, using
such an expreuion, its meaning muat have been well understood. In another of tbe come-
dies of Ariatopbanes; of which Cicero (de Leg.) has preserved a fragment, Sabaziua il sarcaati-
eally mentioned as a deity who deserved to be banished, and whose rites were noctiQ'Jial.
u2
Digitized byGoogle
162
of classical literature, have to the Sabazean rites instituted in
honour of him whom he terms the third Bacchus, and the son of Ca-
prius.* The third Bacchus, when nearly inspected, will probably be
found to be identical with the other sub-deities who bore this popular
name; for the second was the reputed son of Nilus and educated at
-Nyssa in Arabia-felix; and, of the mystic meaning of the of Semele,
I shall treat hereafter, in a manner that will fully harmonise with the pre-
sent constructions.
That the Suo was,-under the supreme Providence,-the real cause of
the festivals which were celebrated by the different star-worshipping na-
tions of antiquity, under the names of Osiris, Bacchus, Adonis, and Saba-
zius, has been already intimated. The concomitant Signs of those festi-
vals, wert- the risings and settings of the stars of the Husbandman, Bear-
driver, or Hunter. Hence, these astronomical occurrenceK, become
pertinent instances of the prevailing influence of certain erroneous doc-
trines which are pointed at in those observations on mystic signs which
are contained in my second Letter (addressed to Captain Lockett).-1
have therein endeavoured to shew that the Sabmans from a very early
period, fell into the error of mistaking, and venerating, concomitancy,
instead of causation. Osiris was not the Sun : but his stars were, among
the. hierophants, the established nocturnal indexes, or signM, of the suo's
places in the ecliptic at differt-nt seasons of the year; and the Sun's an-
nual arrival at certain important points, or stations in the ecliptic, were
the reasons of the institution of those successive rites, of which the stars
of Osiris, or Bootes, were the appointed nocturnal signs : and here wE"
should bear in mind that, none of the stars being visible at the same time
with the Sun, his actual place in the zodiac at any given time, could only
have been known to the Sabrean astronomers by their observations of the
stars : nor can we suppose that, with their wore limited means-they
wert- any thing like so adroit and so exact in computing from those points,
as our modern professors.-Now, every Solar festival, or sacred ob-
servance, (of which there were many among the Sabmans in the course of
the year,)-being a feast in honour of the Suo; the easiest and most ob-
• Of Capriua I have oot elaewbere read, and suspect that io thia place we &bould read
Cbepbeus, the lEtbiopian kiog-bul tbia ia surmise.
Digitized byGoogle
163
vious mode ofdistinguishing these Solar festivals from each other, and the
agricultural festivals from the •·est, was found to be, to call the latter, the
celebrations of the ApAanism-or disappearance; the Zetesis, or search,
and so forth-of Osiris, or Adonis: so they were respectively termed in
Greece, with reference to Egypt and Phamicia. In other places they
were known by other epithets (having probably synonymous meaniugs in
the foreign languages respectively) some of which have been here re-
peated.
They were .termed festivals .of the disappearance, search, and resuci-
tation or discovery-of what? Ofproductive Causation, in fact; of which
the Sun was the prime agent; and believed by the Sabreans to be the
sole cause : the whole forming a physical Allegory, dependent on
seasons, of which the Stars were the accredited signs.
Hence, the transition from Osiris to the Suo, and the mistake of call-
ing the greater luminary by the name of Osiris; was easy and natural. A
mistake of the very same kind, which has already been slightly noticed in
Essay IIJ, prevails through Christendom at this day. We call the feast of
Easter, after the name of the Syrian goddess £starte, (sometimes written
.lEstertA,)or the Moon; EAster, is no other than AEster: and we so call
it because the Moon, has ever been, and still is, the Sign of this feast :
but it is nevertheless a Christian festival,-having been so to all intents and
purposes, since that Moon which rose over the mount of Olives, and threw
its pale and trembling light ou the sufferings of the Saviour.
· With the view of recalling ideas that are here wanted, ( may be
mitted to repeat, that, some parts of the legend of Osiris, read as if they
were to be understood of the mortal chief to whom mankind were
debted for the first rudiments of Husbandry. The place of the Sun at
any given time-even the diurnal place-being only known to the an-
cients by the heliacal and acrooical risings and settings of the Stars, it
is fairly inferable that Osiris-so to call him, while I suppose him to have
been a mortal chieftain-must have taught them to regulate their agri-
cultural operations by the ascension and departure of the principal stars
of that cluster or coustellated group, which is here under our observa-
tion: which Stars, after his death, were very naturally, and as a just tri-
bute of respect, consecrated to his fame, and called by a word which, by
Digitized byGoogle
164
reminding men of important benefits of annual recurrence,-enshrined
his memory in popular gratitude; but which, having descended tbro'
various languages and dialects at a time when language was merely vocal,
has become so many various proper names, or epithets, which like other
proper terms, have been gradually and partially detached, in a great de-
gree, from the first reasons and motives of their imposition. Hence,
while some parts of the legend read as if they were to be understood of
an agricultural chief or instructor, of the earliest ages, others seem as if
tbey were to be understood astronomically and predictively ; nor do I at
present, perceive any other way than this, of reconciling, or incorporat-
ing, or accounting for, these two sets of ideas; which may not have been
kept very diMtinctly separate by the ancient mystics : for it is of the es-
sence of mystery to enwrap itself.
Mr. Payne Knight thinks that Star-worship preceded the worship of
Symbols.• I think so too : because the former is more simple, the lat-
ter more complex and refined. Adoration of the Stars,-brilliant iu their
appearance; immensein their distance; infinite in their numher; and con-
stant in their courses,-appears, where revelation did not present itself,
to have been the first religious movement of the human mind : and so na-
tural to man, and to the better part too, of his faculties, that it might be
"accounted unto him for righteousness."
But the adoration of Symbols began very soon afterward, and began
among the oriental or Sabrean nations : though it did not attain any thing
like philosophical consistency, or poetic beauty, until it was introduced
into Greece. This first religious emotion, which my friend Westmacott
the Academician bas beautifully allegorised in his relievo series of the
progress of Liberty,t by an Infant worshipping a Star-was, I conceive,
very soon succeeded by an endeavour, if not to enumerate, yet to con-
stellatet and specify the principal, of those stars, which at first bad ap-
* " The primitive religion of the Greeks, like that of all other nations not enlightened by
Revelation, appean to have been elementary ; and to have conlli&ted in an indistinct wor-
ship of the Sun, the Moon, the Stan, &c!'-R. P. Knigllt'• lnqt4iry into tk Symbolical
Langutzge, Cb. 2. And in Ch. the ancient planetary worship preceded the
symbolical."
t Executed for his Grace the Duke of Bedford.
t " The moat ancient are with great probability thought to have received the name
Digitized byGoogle
166
peared an irregular and countless host, but were afterward observed
to be finite in number, and regular in their periods of departure and
return.
And this, as I conceive, was the commencement, or root, from which
sprang the worship of symbols : for the periodical ascension and depar-
ture of certain stars, or groups of fittars, having been remarked to be the
invariable forerunners, and others the never failing concomitants, of the
annual changes of the seasons, were very naturally associated· with,-and
became the memorable and acceptable signals of-agricultural, marine,
and other operations connected with the business of life.-We must bear
in mind, that there then existed no widely circulating almanacks, calen-
dars, or other artificial means, such as bas since provided, of a&-
sisting the husbandman and navigator in their various labours. The
Stars therefore became most welcome signals; and those who pointed out
their unerring courses, and formed those highly useful associations with
"works and days,',. became the honoured interpreters of the secrets of Na-
ture, or of the will of Heaven.
For these reasons, the periodical returns of the Stars, were to the ini-
tiated, yet more than to the vulgar, Celestial oracles, announcing the im-
portant approach of those changes, upon which the prosperity-not to
say the existence-of man, must ever depend ; and under such a dispen-
sation, must for centuries have been regarded as unvarying and immut-
able truths : for, centuries must elapse, and an art of hieroglyphical re-
cord must have been discovered and for centuries have been reduced to
practice, ere it could possibly be known,-even to the antediluvians, whose
longevity might enable them to notice, what art and science have since
conferred on us the power of recording; namely,-that the return of cer-
tain stars, as connected with their concomitant seasons of Spring and
Harvest, were not eternal and immutable, but were subject to a very
gradual change, resulting from that apparent ·movement of the stars in
longitude, which has been termed the precession of the Equinoxes:
ofZabii (Sabreans) from worshipping the host of heaven: this they could hardly do without di-
viding the stara into parcels, as we find their scholar• in Idolatry, the Egyptians, did."-Dr.
Long1upported by Maimonides, Hyde, and other venerated authoritie1. Astron. Ch. 2. vol. i. p. 179.
• The title of the chief of the poems of Hesiod, which consi•ts of such asaociations. ·
Digitized byGoogle
100
Only the more ancient patriarchs and their contemporaries-the men who
lived for centuries-could have observed this ; and alarming to the devo-
tees of the Sabrean religion must that discovery have been ; and very
cautious must the astronomical priesthood have been of promulgating,-if
they ever promulgated,-a doctrine so pregnant with the hazards of inno-
vation to their long-established dogmata.
Hence the most ancient ANtronomical geniuses-those who arranged
the stars into groups, and who assimilated those groups with the changes
which periodically took place in the terrestrial worJd-possessiug the
power, would very naturally entertain the will, to avail themselves of an
opportunity so tempting, and would not fail thus brilliantly to eternise,
themselves, their patrons, and benefactors.
And hence, the oldest of the Sabrean constellations, are, an Astrono-
mical Priest; a King; a Queen; a Husbandman; and a Warrior.•
It is interesting to know that these-which constituted the Castes, or
into which society itself was divided among the Oriental nations.
and quite in the remotest depths of time-not only remain on the sphere
to the present day, and are still traceable through their Grecian dis-
guises; but are of more frequent recnrrence on the Sabrean cylinders
than any other constellations will appear in the course of
these researches.
The King, of whom I shall say more when I have the honour of intro-
dncing his antique representation to public notice--was Chepheus of
lEthiopia, the great friend, patron, and reputed founder, of the Astrono-
mical priesthood: The Queen presents herself on the opal cylinder of
Sir William Boughton, of wbich I shall treat further on in the present
volume: The Husbandman, was Osiris, Bacchus, Sabazius, Noah, or
Bootes, the bearer of the pastoral staff, and van, or winnowing imple-
ment-whose stars are the proper subject ofmy present speculation. The
two former were most honoured in ..lEthiopia, being the progenitors or
chiefs of that country ; but the latter-though also of JEthiopian origin
-was in after ages, chiefly honoured in Egypt; where-a demi-god at
• Or one who was at tbe same time both Warrior and Hunter. The fint equestrians were
probably Warrior-Hunten: the bor•e afFording in both case11, the ready means of pursuit, and
of voluntary advantageous combat.
Digitized byGoogle
167
the very first--he became at last absolutely deified in the popular ereed•
.;......;..And why? Clearly because Egypt, of aU the Sabrean nations, and of
all other nations whatever, was, from local circumstances, most power-
fully incited to the observance of those seasons of agricultural opera-
tions of which the stars of Osiris were the appointed signals. Religion
flowed into Egypt from the southward with the Nile. Ifastronomy did
not spring up among the aborigines, it marched with the first invaders.
To the constellated Husbandman, the Egyptians were nationally, and
traditionally, and habitually, grateful, because-simnltaneousness, or con-
tiguity of time, having with them-at least with the uninitiated part ofthe
Egyptian community ; become identified with, and mistaken for, origi-
nating cause ;-they conceived that from Osiris, all the greatest ·Ofterres-
trial enjoyments were derived; and to him they poured forth their grateful
thanksgivings for the continuity of health, and preservation, and aJJ the
blessings of this life: and-judging from the interesting discoveries .of
Mr. Belzoni (particularly .the inner apartments of his sepulchral palace)
-they appear also to have hoped in a future world to become the compa-
aions of his beatitude.
The stars of the having thuR hAC'..ome the signals .for those
successive agricaltural labours on which the annual produce of the soil
•
depended, came in consequence to be .considered -and .bailed in lEthiopia
and in Egypt, as the genial stars of terrestrial productiveness; to which
the oblations, the prayers, and the vows, of the pious Sabrean, were re-
gularly offered up: and in hieroglyphically .figuring the constellation by
means of sculpture and· painting-
· the crook, immediately alluding to
pastoral and vernal occupation; and the winnow, -or van,• to those rural
labours which annually terminate, or succeed to, the Harvest-became
characteristic additions to the figure of the alluding at the
same time to the two kindij of cares which are incumbent-not -only on
·* Tbia Symbol hu somewhat puzzled the antiquariea, some of whom have mistaken it for a
flail, and others for a whip: but Mr. ltnight o·ffera a reason in favour of ill being intended for
the van or winnow, which seems to settle the question• .Jn·p.l32 of his "Inquiry," be writes,
" O.iris baa the winnow in one hand, and.the book of attraction in the other.-.It is strange that
it ahould ever have been taken for a wAip; although it m.ight euily have been takeo for a.flail,
had tile -ancient• wed IUCh ma innrumenl in tbrubing com." Tbis ia a Note: and in his text
t'be author says,-" thia instrument it c:alted by Virgil, ibe myatic winnow of Bacchus."
X
Digitized byGoogle
l
.l
·. \
,\ I
.I
I
tbe cultivator oftqe Nile, but ofthe agriculturist ev.ery oouo..
bis 1\Ud his p_asture, lands.-These symbols, tend to
iuppositioo that the rites ofOsiris were introduced into Egypt
·for j( .Egypt was a grain country, .lEthiopia was a land
pf,cattle, an.d its·race of were termed " Shepherd Kings;" which
Main with the statr.-1 know that these imple-
mentS-the pa&.twal crook, and van-have also been regarded, by writers
w-.o.se eritical pb,ilosophy I greatly respect, as emblems or
symbols of :attraction and .repulsion ; of preservation and .destruction ;
and tbi,s ground I see no reason to invade. I acknow:Jedge
the :o£ the territory; and at the most shall only desire
sion ·Pl.Y astroOOOJical troops to march across it, as across the domi-
nic)llfJ or a ftieodly po:wer, is favourable to me and my purp9se.
It appeal'. from the above, that the invention of hieroglypbical
•ymb():ls, i.f not coeval witb, was immediately consequent to, the con-
'tellaung of the stars; proceeding simply from the natural endeavour to.
the sac;red tig•tres ofthe upon a system of analogical
and consistent principles, which-at least to the initiated,-might always
con'fey the meaning, and a1ways be understood.
By sto.dyiug local references of this kind, I conceive that the mystic
sense of·many of the hieroglyphics, both of Egypt and the more Oriental
nations,.may be developed. I mean all that portion of them-which I
suppose to be not. ioeonsiderable-tbat has relation to the primitive aste-
·If we find a celestial sphere of.lEthiopia or Egypt, or com-
plete "·Chamber:of Imagery" with the individual stars delineated thereon,
the.occult.mysteries which cover their sacred e4ifices with veils of awful
wonder, would become easy of explication. But the mystics have
omitted the-·stars, knowing that the extreme ditficulty to the uninitiated
of ascertainingowhich clusters or arrangements of these, the hieroglyphicai
forms were severally supposed to circumscribe, would for ever warrant
them in engraving such inscriptions as that wbicb appeared over the por-
tal of Isis,-" No mortal bas yet unveiled i:ue."
The mystery and the difficulty, are rendered yet more mysterious, and
more difficult, with regard to Egypt, because the Greeks have aot (al·
though the contrary bas been frequently asserted) copied on their own
.Digitized by Coogle
169
sphere, the asterisms o( Egypt, but altered those of Cbaldea and ..Ethiopia,
which I suppose to have differed in'their figuring from the Egyptian, and
to have been alike; or at least, formed on the same system.-Pherecydes,
Thales, Pythagoras, and other early Grecian astronomers, had travelled
to Egypt, doubtless: the facts are speci'fically recofded by Diogenes
Laertius, and others: but they had also been at Babylon, and in Phm-
nicia (where the same system was prevalent) before they
astronomy in Greece : and finding that greater ,astronomical limplicit9
prevailed in those countries,· and that the Clialdeaos.were consequently
nearer to the fuuntain.head of thi8 scienc·
e,--:-they appear-though pro-
bably trimming somewhat, in order to accommodate their astronomy to
the imposing fashions, the refinement, and the high reputation of Egypt
-to have peopled their sphere chiefly with the celestial forms, or with
modifications of the celestial forms, which they discovered in the interiors
of the BabyIonian and Phmnician temples, and on other of the sacred
monuments, of those countries; which they probably found it more easy
to adapt to the existing state of Greek mythology, hero-worship,- and
public feeling; and consequently niore susceptible of incorporation with
their own local customs; •itb the general state of knowJedge, and'the
infant state of science, among the Greeks.
I beg to submit, my Lord, premise8 being admitted-enough
is above written to sheW how OstRts, collectively speaking, and under-
stood as the representative of thOie stars which were the invariable prog- ·
nostics of certain natural 'phenomena-came to be venemted as the Deity,
or disposer, or originating energy of prodwctive caWaticm; o( whose
astral virtues or eftluence, lsts,.or terrene:Nature, was the passive reci-
pient, and their annual offspring HoRus, the vernal or infant
year. .
I shall not at present enter the wide space which the mention of these
latter deities opens to our specnlations, ·my purpose in this place being
merely to shew bow soon, bow intimately, and bywhat steps, the science
and simplicity ofSabreanism, becarne blended with the symbolical refine-
mentS which afterward constituted the poetical' and p6pular mythology
of the Greeks; and how the rustic Husbandman-perhaps the patriarchal
Noah, or Xixutbrus-ofChaldea, and .tEthiopia-became tht> Osiris of
:xi
Digitized byGoogle
1'70
Egypt; ·the Adonis of Phmnida; ·the Bacchus of Greece, and finally the
Bootes of the modern spheres.-Whether he had, or had not, a mortal and
terrestrial existence;-whether -an ancient agricultural chief of his own
authority gave name to the constellation ; or that the stars were after his
death, surrounded by the figure of .him to whose science aud important
discoveries and operations .whilst living, they bore :especial reference,-
appears not to disturb my argument.
I conceive ·this constellation of the Husbandman, to have become
fllltional to the Egyptians,·.and that-each of the nations possessed
in a similar manner, its appropriate celestial sign. We read in the 2d
book of Kings, ch. xvii. v. 30, that, of the colonies ·sent by the King of
Assyria to repeople the ·desolated cities of the Hebrews at the era of the
.Samaritan captivity,· "the Men of Babylon .made Succoth Benoth; the
men of Cuth.made Nergal ;.and the men of Hamath made -Ashima; all
ofwhich were constellated and tutelary, signs :• just so, had Egypt been
at the time under the·government of Shalmaneser,· and had a colony been
sent from thence,-the men of, Egypt would have made Osiris, (Tham-
muz,-or by whatever-other epithet- that constellation might have been
designated in ·the . language of the writer of this part of the Jewish his-
tory:) ofwhich the essential would have been, that by the Sun's
place in the ecliptic with respect to the stars of the constellated Hus-
bandman, those invaders would have regulated their seed time and har-
vest, and in general. all those manual operations and those
festivals, which have always. been regulated by· the :Calendar, where
Calendars have existed.
Such ·are the opinions which I have been led to form;· su-ch are·the
conclusions to which I have been brought, by a careful study of this part
of my subject; and I thus account for the local and transcendental,.and
the lasting,· importance· of Osiris as 'the tutelary sign of Egypt. " The
rolling year was full of him ; and the seasons themselves as they changed,
were " but the varied God."
Now; if we could positively assure ourselves of this as a certain fact;
namely; That in Egypt, Nubia; and along the banks of Nile; from Mount
. Arambo southward :-wherever we find temples sculptured. with his
*Aries is now, by the modern held to be the tutelary constellation of England.
Digitized byGoogle
171
figurE";-wherever his statues are found,-and wherever (as Axum) .are
found, those remarkable small monuments.whjch have been wisely
jectured to have been intended to answer some of the purposes ofa·Calen.
dar-(1 mean those, where this deity is represented as standing on two
crocodiles, and holding in either band zodiacal signs).-lf, I repeat, we
could ascertain as an incontrovertible and no longer questionable faci,
that all along this rich and antique.vale of Nile, OsiRIS, corroborated by
the asterisms of the zodiac, was the nocturnal sign,
what an important leading truth it would be! What a constant and
capital index ! What a mythological theorem! and what gleams of celes-
tial light it would throw into the recesses of.those sublime cavern: tem-
ples, which have hitherto excited so much of laudable curiosity and anti-
quarian hope!
Though I am persuaded that. this is the .case,_ no man can be more
assured than 1, that no attempt should be made to extend this persuasion,
as such, to others. Securer and more scrutinising habits .of research,
must herE" be resorted to. .Rational conviction is wanted. Begin such
an argument where we will-Paint we "an inch thick," with the fleeting
or fallacious colours of Fancy, or the garish rhodomontades of etymolo-.
gical conjecture, to the mathematics of astronomy "we must co·me at
last." I therefore propose, my .Lord, in what remains of the present
essay, not to paint at all; hnt to proceed right onward, as nearly as· I
may be able, to the mathematical mark.-Wherefore, after removing an
obstruction that is not very formidable, we will, (if your Lordship should
so please,) return to the eternal stars, and trust to them for
these ancient matters of fact and matters of fable.
In answer to the objection which has been raised on the ground that
those mythological circumstances which relate to times, seasons, and the
Osirian rites, have been variously reported; I should say-True: they
have been variously, but. not inconsistently, reported, for the seeming
inconsistences; that is to say, the differences with regard to the occu-
pied portions of time; when astronomically and geographically .consi..:
dered ; and when we take into the account the popular veneration for the
stars, and the .importance of the dependence placed on those manual
operations, of which they were the signals; and when we further reflect,
Digitized byGoogle
172
that these physical consequences and this religious veneration, ran through
various climes-these very discrepancies, become a bond of consistency :
the objections are converted into firtn supports: being in fact no other
than the detailed corollaries of local accuracy; which must of necessityt
have been as we here find them, and which, had they not been tbus
found, would have afforded evidence of mistake or deficiency.
But (an objector may persist) what can be said for such variations in
the legend, as Typhon dividing the body of Osiris intofourtmtt pieces
and into twtnty-liz?t These numbers are both reported,-the latter by
Diodorus Siculus, the former by Plutarch: and what differences of lati-
tude? or what other reason or cause, can reconcile such differences as
these?
I that, philosophers so venerably bearded as Plutarch and
Diodorus, have no right to expect that us modems should be able to
reconcile all their differences: yet a reconcilement of the present is far
within reach.
. We perceive no indications in their writings,.that either of these autho-
rities, possessed more than a sort of hear-say knowledge-a few of the
more frequent phrases, or so-of Astronomy. It is not unfair to infer
that they would else, on fit occasions, have discovered their information,
whilst treating. of events that bore relation to this science; whereas, not-
withstanding that Plutarch in discussing this yery legend, as well as in
other places,-makes- not unfrequent use of astronomical terms, he gi_ves
us no reason to believe that he possessed the power of rendering the
"fisible phenomena of the starry heavens subservient. to his. literary plll'"o
poses, or was acquainted even with the simplest uses of an astronomer's
globe; but the contrary. Indeed, as Cicero speaks ofthe sphere, or rather
planetarium, of Posidonius,:J: as a curiosity, it would appear that such
• Isis and O.iria, Baxter's translation, p. 75. t Booth'• Diodorus, p. 9,
· t A reflective Engliahman canoot but be etruck with such a pauage as the following ia tbe
'\Vritiop of the Roman Orator, "If (says he) that aphere lately made by our friend Posidonius,
shews the cout:aea of the Moon, and five wandering atar11, as they are every day and
night performed, wu carried into Scythia or Britain, who in those barbaroru countriea would
doubt that reason preaided in that work i''-Fraffllin'• qf M. T. Cicero 011 the Nature
qfllte GotU, B. ii. p. 184.
Digitized by Google
173
machines were by no means common onder the earlier C.sars, fr they
were at any time common in ancient Rome.
Plutarch appears to have possessed ordinary acquaintance (and no.
more) with the Solar and Lunar astronomy of his time, and to have
comparatively ignorant of the phenomena of the constellated heavens.
Having listened to some vague and uncritical rumour, or to some general
expression, of an event consisting of a series of sidereal and particular
facts, which (from too careless attention, perhaps) or from want of rndi-
mental information on the subject) he did not comprehend, he echoes that
the Osirian Mythologue had astronomical references. But, as echoes:
are more or less imperfect according to the rocks or other localities thafl
reverberate the sounds; and as the Hudibrastic echo to the word Bruin,;
was "rui"a"-so it has happened here: "the separation of Osiris into
fourteen parts" (says our learned moraliRt and instructive biographer)
"sets forth unto us symbolically, the number of days which the moon is
in decreasing from the full to the change;" which is a mere coincidence-
of the number 14, without any kind of physical analogy to support it&
application. In fact, in Plutarch's endeavour to apply it, he is driven to.
an irrelevant refinement contradictory of his own subsequent assertion;
for Osiris is, elsewhere in his essays, treated of as being the Sun, and
Isis the Moon:* yet here, in order to make out a temporary hypothetical
case, in seeming he says, "Those who join with the phy-
siological accounts, certain mathematical matters relative to astronomy,
suppose T!lphOB to mean the orb of the Su.n, and Osiris that of the
Moon :"-(Thus far Plutarch).-Now,. although from a natural error for
which I have already accounted, commentators have in numerous in-
stances, attempted to identify Osiris with the Sun; yet this absence of
critical philosophy; as well as of recoJtectioo; this occasional license ot
• See Bazter's tramlation, in Plutarch's Morals, vol. iv. pp. 112, 13: notwitbitanding which.,
in his summary, our philosopher delivers the following as his own more
is not reasonable to beline that either the water [Nile] or the sun, or the earth, or the
heaveM, is or bi': nor again,. tbat the tire, or the drought, or the sea, is Typhon: but if
we simply ascribe to Typhon. whatever in all these, is, through or defects, intemperate
or and if, on the other hand, we reverence and honour, what in them is ordcrl.J•
good and bene6cial, esteeming them as the operations of his, and as tbe in1age, imitation and
discourse of Osiris, we shall not err:•·
Digitized byGoogle
174
compleat inversion bf proper epithets ; and of physical cause and effect;
(in which some modern scholars are so prone to indulge with Plutarch;
redeeming themselves like him,) it would be ridiculous to set
about either maintaining or refuting by logical rules :-and Plutarch is
.-ight in his general inferenee of an astronomical fact being involved in
the fable, though wrong in his particular conclusion.-Let us therefore
return from this excursive digression, to our proposed reconcilement o{
Diodorus with Plutarch ;-let us return to those correspondences be;.
tween the reported number of parts into which Typhon divided Osiris ;
and to those mystic resemblances between mythological fable and astrO-'
nomical fact, that run along with them in analogical parallel ; and again
convert temporary and seeming objection, into solid and lasting support
. It is some satisfaction to know, that notwithstanding the variations of
form which the outline of the conRtellated Husbandman has from time to
time undergone, in the course of its transmission, the stars which are
engaged in it still remain as they were probably enregistered in the Alma-
gests of Egypt and of -LEthiopia. The patient observation, and the more
perfect instruments, of Hevelius and of Flamstead, have indeed increased
their number to upwards of fifty ; but, reckoning down to stars of the
5th magnitude inclusive-which is as far as the ancient votaries of Osiris,
even in the clear nocturnal atmosphere ofthe Sabrean climates, could have
been enabled to perceive without telescopes-their number is twent!J·sUv.
It was the discovery-(which I might almost call casual)-of this nu-
merical coincidence between the aggregate of the stars of the Husband-
man and the record of Diodorus; combined with an opinion that Plu-
tarch would not have written of astronomical references-however mis-
apprehensively-without some foundation, that led me to investigate what
dividing the body of Osiris intofourteen pieces, could really mean; and
to have recourse to that celestial globe which bas conducted me to the
following results.
The fable of the dismemberment and cutting to pieces of Osiris, by
Typhon-of which no simple, consistent, and rational, explication (that I
ever heard of) has yet been offered-alludes to the successive acronical
disappearance of these twenty-six stars, which of necessity follow each
other as they sink beneath the horizon.
Digitized byGoogle
175
The Typhon of ancient mythology, appears to have been-as Plutarch
in his.summary seems to intimate..,-()ccasionally, thing that is inju-
rious, or. destructive. He might be termed the power or damion of de-
struction. In the present case he is incarnate-(if this term might be thus
used)-consubstantiate ratber,-in the Ocean. The legend with elegant
analogy, says, "Typhon was bunting by Moon-light when he.met with
Osiris."-this shews the mystic reference to be to a nocturnal event-It
proceeds-" and he divided the body of Osiris into fourteen pieces," ac-
cording to Plutarch; but Diodorus says, "twent!J-six."
Typhon, then, .is here, that Ocean which the ancients fabled or believed
to surround the Earth, and into which the stars of the Husbandman, in
their turns-(like all other stars)-successively appear to sink: yet as
they sink, sometimes singly, and sometimes two or more together, their
actual number of descents, or is but fourteen-as I shaH pre-
sently .and as any of my readers having a celestial globe before
him, may easily satisfy himself.
. We have seen that Aratus considered the splendid and beautiful star
Arcturus, as .not belonging to the constellation. Even at present, al-
though it is with the Greek alpha, in the modern enumerations
the stars of Bootes, it does not, on most of the modern spheres, fall
within the outline of his figure: but that the more ancient Sabrean, or
9haldean, astronomers thus regarded it, we cannot he certain; and this
doubt .threatened for awhile, in some sort to baffie-at least to affect with
some degree of disturbance-the accuracy which I wished to attain, io
solving this problem by the sphere. It may be thought worthy of re-
mark, as a curioqs coincidence, at least,-that, notwithstanding that the
different degrees of obliquity of the descension of the stars of Bootes (or
Osiris) in the several latitudes of Babylon, Thebes, and Saba, occasion
the plural settings not always to consist of the same identical stars, yet
that in all these places the number of descents of the twenty-six stars, is
constantly fourteen: that is to say, at BabyJon they are J4 exclusively of
Arcturus: at Thebes the same: but in that more southerly latitude which
I have ventured to assign to the ancient Saba, the star d in the right thigh
y
Digitized byGoogle
176
of the figure, setting at the same moment with Arcturus, the number of
descents is still precisely 14, whether Arcturus be included, or not.
Attaching then the solution of our problem to the latitude of this an.
cient Cushite metropolis, (Saba,) we, by means of the stepping-stone we
have discovered in the star d, get beyond our scepticism with regard to
Arcturus, without at all affecting the general merits or principles of the
main question at issue.
Still, however, when I came to a calm and critical review of my own
proceedings, my satisfaction was imperfect. There was indeed explana-
tory justification ofthe number announced by Plutarch; and announced
by him as resting on an astronomical foundation; Diodorus also was
numerically met; there was an agreement of no common confirmation
and no ordinary kind ; there was the result of concurring, though uncon·
federated, testimony, which is always powerful and persuasive: but-I
still had scruples to satisfy. I had hopes to confirm or abandon. I had
wishes that assurance might become doubly sure. A certain mathema-
tical seal of exactitude, was yet desirable in the way of ratifying my anti-
quarian peace. The co-deRcent of Arcturus with the star d was but a
trifle when compared to the superior consideration of a particular 8eason
ofIke year appearing by the most authentic transcripts of the Osirian
mythologue, to be denoted with very precise reference to the annual state
of the constellated heavens, and the place of the Suo, at the remote era,.
and the far off place, when and where the mystic rites originated. The
coincidence of the f<mrteen settings of the twenty-Nix stars, was very re-
markable: but at Babylon, and even at Thebes, it appeared to be too
tardily followed by the heliacal rising of AldebarAn: for notwithstanding
this star rose on the very morning after that of the descent of the last of
the constellated Husbandman; yet it rose too exactly with the Sun.
Space in the heavens, and time upon earth, must be allowed for Alde-
barAn to get clear of the solar radiance, so as to become visible; for the
very ancient Sabreans do not appear to have possessed artificial spheres
whereby to ascertain and manifest the actual rising of a combust star-
that is to say, a star immersed in the rays of the sun. They must have
Digitized by Google
17:7
waited until they actually saw any given star, before they announced;and
before they publicly celebrated, its ascension.
Moreover, I bad learned from a profound Essay on an important
branch of the astronomy of India, which appeared in the Asiatic Re-
searches, (to which Professor Millington had pointed my attention) that
Cynosnra was not always the Pole-star: that the .AlpluJ DracOfiU ap-
.peared to have enjoyed that honour, some eight and forty centuries ago:
and that consequently, when the rites of the constellated Husbandman
were instituted, aJl the stars must have risen and set with very different
degrees of obliquity from those of their present risings and BE'ttiogs.
Here was a dilemma somewhat embarrassing, if not appalling: for it
amounted to no less than a discovery that, the antique problt>m which I
wished to solve with accuracy, could not be satisfactorily discus&ed by
meamJ of a globe, mounted as all celestial globes are mounted at present
-such globes being invariably accommodated to the purposes of modern
astronomers ; and not of astronomical antiquaries.
How was this to be remedied? If I calculated back to any far dis-
tant era; and,-asct'rtaining the then place of the solstitial colore and the
axis upon which the celestial phenomena then revolved-rehung the
sphere; I should only be possessed of a sphere suited to that single
period (of a few centuries at the most) as modern spheres are suited to
the present: whereas I wanted a suspended, as the Great Cause
of alJ, bas suspended the starry heavens with reference to our planet;
and .U:e versa: that is to say, with the pole of the Equator and that of the
Ecliptic possessing powers of respective circumvolution, and capable of
being adjusted to any period of time, past, present, or to come.-And
this, not only because I had other problems to solve, referring to far dis.
tant periods of time; but because, in the present instance; 1 could not
be certain apriori of the exact place of the pole. Having no precise era
to set out with as a datum, trial by means of the artificial sphere, became
one of my experimental tests. Both time, and place, were to be explored
and ascertained, reasoning from such other and scanty premises, as war
and superstition have spared, and art and science have transmitted.
From this main difficulty, which much embarrasst>d my proceedings,
Y2
Digitized byGoogle
I
. I
I
I
I
.,
I
\
\
•
178
and threatened for a while to stultify my hopes of astronomical accuracy,
I have been relieved by the science, and liberality of communication, of
Mr. Lee of the Royal Society. A globe with drcumvolving poles,
capable of any adjustment with regard to the colures, has been con-
structed and mounted under his obliging superintendance; and, by its
means, I am enabled to laybefore your Lordship and the pnhlic, a toler-
ably faithful statement of the acronical settings of the stars of the Hus-
bandman, at the time when his mystic rites must have originated, and
when Al-debardn was really as well as nominally, the leading 1tar of the
hosts of heaven.
With the Alpha Draconis for its pole-star, and with the pole elevated
to Jo• North, I shall proceed to submit a sort of tabular view of the
astronomical details of our Osirian problem; by which will he seen the
order of the successive descensions, under the above circumstances, of
the twenty-six liltars of the celestial Husbandman, whom we have al-
ternately designated, or recognised in different countries and languages,
as Osiris, Bootes, Bacchus, Sabazeus, Adonis, Dionusos, and Noah•.
The ancient city of Axum, according to Bruce, is nearly in· lat. 14•.
The Western .Saba, otherwise Meroe, is to the Northward of this city :
but the exactlatitude of either Meroe, or the Saba of the Homerites and
the Arabian peninsula, is not known. Neither of them, can have been
far from 15° North; and, lying so nearly under the same parallel, Astro-
nomy alone,-without some aid from her sister muses, or from there-
searches of antiquarian travellers, (whom the fearful rites of Mohammed
joined to the hazards and privations of a torrid clime, have nearly inter-
dicted,}-finds it impracticable to distinguish between these ancient cities
so as to pronounce with certainty which was the cradle of astral science
and of the Osirian mysteries.
Digitized byGoogle
179
TABLE of the Descension of the Stars of the Constellated Husband-
man now called Bootes, in the latitude 15° North, at the time when
the Alpha Draconis was the Pole-star.
Order of No. of
Deaomlaatioa aad DIICI'lptioa.
ne,.... stan
tare. · •
l 1 ,., Tau, in western leg.
2 1 .,, Eta, in ditto.
3 2 4, Alpha, or Arctunu, and the roman din western thigh.
4 2 Zeta, and r, Pi, in eastern leg.
5 ] o, Omicron, in ditto.
6 1 ;, Xi, in ditto.
7 4 '• Epsilon (or Mirack.), tr, Sigma, f• Rho, in girdle and body;
and the roman A under arm.
8 1 cu, Omega, in eastern band.
9 3 "'· Psi, in ditto, ,, Gamma, near arm-pit and roman C o{ 5th
mag.
10 2 X• Chi, in pastoral crook, and an unmarked star in neck, of
5th mag.
J J 2 3, Delta, in we8tern shoulder, and another ·of 5th oiag. in
pastoral crook.
12 2 :A, Lambda, in western arm, and another of ditto in neck.
13 2 /3, Beta (or Ras), and p., Mu (or A.lkaturops).
14 3 x, Kappa, •, Iota, 6, Theta, in western hand.•
27 including Arcturus,
* The three atara Jut mentioned, and which are now engaged in the upheld hand ofthe figure-.
were I suppoae denoted on the Egyptian planisphereaby the myatic van of Osiria. Tbe reader
will probably have remarked the three diviaiona of thia van, in the larger and more elaborate
Egyptian repreeentations of their tutelary aign. I am pretty certain too that I have eeen the
three etara sculptured-one on each of the divisions of the van-in some of the larger Osirian
ftgurea, though I do not at thia moment recollect where. In descending, they rather akirt the
horizon (u Milton's phrase i•) that ia, the arti&cial horizon of the aphere, than absolutely link
beneath it: yet in nature, they mUit certainly have been inviaible, and the whole c:onatellatioa.
Digitized byGoogle
I I
I' i
J
'.
I•
I
I I
I
I
I
I I
i
180
It will soon appear-perhaps I should have assumed that the reader
bas already perceived-that the numerical coincidences which I have
exhibited between the setting stars and the writings of Diodorus and
Plutarch, cannot possibly have any such relation as is fancied by the
latter, to the phases of the Moon ; but that they refer to a season of
annual recurrence; and on a subject so remote in time and place, and so
confessedly mysterious in its nature, I might further have been allowed
to anticipate, that even the driest, or most rigid matter of fact men, would
not expect a nearer approach to demonstration than I have here the ho-
nour to submit. ·I own that to me it appears every thing short ofpositive
literary record, and in a case too, where positive ancient record, trans-
mitted from the time in question, is not, and cannot be, expected; because
it is pretty well ascertained, either that no archives exist, or that such
archives as do exist, (in the arrow-head character) can no longer be read.
I chiefly address myself here to critics and scholars, who will easily
perceive whether or not I indulge in any overweening self-gratulation.
Should the above be admitted as the true interpretation of the origin of
the Osirian mystery in the aggregate, the. minor details will not be diffi-
cult of explication on the same system: The parts will fall in and
accord with the whole. Taking the rites which commemorated the first
Pamylian observance as an example-It will appear that, whatever agri-
cultural operations, or suspension of operations, may have been signified
thereby, the or' mystic allusion was to the sign; and the sign,
was either the detachment of Arcturus;• on the excision (that is the de-
scent) of Mirack-l shall leave it to the learned to settle which, only ob-
serving that they are both important stars, and near the middlet of the
figure; and that no other than a fabulous separation, or dismemberment,
abaent, in this low latitude, for about the three or four days which are mentioned in some of
the versions-while the Zele&il or search was proceeding, and the women of Phamicia and
Jerusalem pretended to sit weeping for the wonder, Tbammuz: after which these three stars
would immediately rtappear below and to the Eastward of the .Alpha Draconil.
• A mistaken Greek version as I 1u11pect-or a corruption-of the Egyptian or Arabian name
of tbia star. The tail of the Bear could never have reached to Arcturus.
t I know not the meaning of the Arabic Mirach : but there i• another star of this name
aimilarly situated with relation to the figure of Andromeda..
Digitized byGoogle
181
of annual recurrence, could possibly be meant by it; since the genETation
of him who has been called the Egyptian Harpocrates, was snbsE'quent
to this critical event. Thepludlic festival, which forms a sequent pal't of
the story, I conceive to allude to the reappearance of the star so cut off,
in the Eastern quarter of the Heavens; or on the cusp of the ascendant;
which is the genethliological station of increasing vigour and influence.
And this re-appearance, in this place, under circumstances that are very
remarkable, and pregnant with analogical, yet mysterious, meaning, I was
led to perceive, when I submitted this antiquarian problem to the test of
my new globE'; for precisely at the moment ofthe heliacal rising ofthe bril-
liant star Spica (tbe.Aq,ka ofVirgo, and near the middle ofher figure)arose
also the .Apka (.Arctunu) of the Husbandman. Human ingenuity could
scarcely have devised an astral allegory• more homogeneously mystical.
Aratus or Eudoxus appears to have observed that the Spica Virginis and
Arcturus were on the same meridian, and perhaps the former may have
entertained a modification of the same conjecture with myself, when be
wrote of the stars of the Husbandman-as rendered by Cicero in his ver-
sion of the "Phenomena."
"Subter pnecordia fixa tenetur
Stella micans radiia, Arcturus nomine claro
- cui aubjecta fertur
Spicum illuatre tenens splendente corpore Virgo.
Of the mystic ceremony relative to the head of Osiris (or Adonis), I
have treated in the preceding essay, and have only to add that in the
Arabian astronomy, the star Beta, is still known, as it has ever been, by
the name RtU, which is literally the Head: and that I rather think, from
reflecting on what History lias transmitted relating to the Osirian cere-
monies, that the setting of the star Ras, was esteemed to be the final astral
event of thE' .Aplumism, if not of the mystic series; and that the stellated
Noah always "put forth his band." It requires however, that we go
* I believe it i• Costard, who aays, or inaiouatea, that Virgo wu in the olde1t planiapberea, no-
thing but a Hane•t wench, and no beuer than abe should be or in other words,-notbing loth
to meet a Hruband-man half way.
Digitized byGoogle
182
back to the period of the polar reign of the Alplla Draconi1, for these
stellar events to follow in the above order of
But of aU the attendant ·circumstances, that which will probably bt"
regarded as pre-eminently revealing the mystic relation between the an-
cient legend and the unvarying phenomena of the constellated heavenH,
-or rather as kermeticall!l sealing the revelation-is, that in the .£thio-
pian latitude which is above specified, on the very morning after the acro-
nical departure .of the last of the stars of the Husbandman, Aldebaran
rises with the vmuzl Sun! AldebarAn! of the first magnitude : literally
the leading star ofthe new year; and reaIIy the leader ofthe host ofHeaven,
or Saba-otk., at the remote era when the rites of Osiris originated-that is
say, _
about forty-eight centuries ago; for AldebarAn is 67° to .Eastward
pf the present place of the vernal equinox, and 67° x 72 = 4824. ·
My meaning is that AldebarAn, under the above circumstances, has at-
tained a right ascension of rather more than 14°, on the morning subsequent
to that of the disa}>pearance of tk.e Head. The reader will recoJiect here,
that in endeavouring to solve this problem by means ofa globe havingCyno-
sura for its pole-star, I stated that the rising ofAldebarAn followed too im-
mediately the setting of Alkaturops-that, notwithstanding its appearance
above the wooden or artificial horizon of the globe, it musl in nature have
been obscured at the time by the solar radiance. This objection is now
satisfactorily obviated. The leading, or foremost, star, has attained an ele-
vation of somewhat more than 14°, which I suppose would about corre-
spond in space with the time which Sir William Drummond has ascer-
tained to have been allowed by the ancients• for the emergeruent froru the
Sun's rays of a star of the first magnitude. The astronomers of our own
latitude, ( believe, allow from 10 to 12°: Sir William speaks generally
of " the ancients," but the further we travel to the southward, the less
• " Tbe ancienta allowed twe)ye days for a star of the first magnitude to emerge from the
solar rays."-Memoir on tht Antiquily qf the Zodiac1 of&neh and Dmdera, p. I00. In the next
page Sir William treats of "twelr>e, or according to some, fourtem day•" being aUo"·ed for
the emergement of Sirius; that Sirius, not bt'ing of the Zodiac, must be leu
affected than the zodiacal •tara, by the ,olar radiance; and is the very largellt of tbe fixed
stan.
Digitized byGoogle
183
twilight we experience, and the,more powerful, and rapidly penetrating,
are the rays of .the Sun.
Concerning the space of time occupied in the departure of the stars of
Osiris certain discrepancies should be noticed. Itshould be borne.jn mind
that Theophilus of Edessa, on whose authority Mr. Knight has reported
the forty days, was chiefastrologer to the Khalifal Mohdi, and was a per-
son not unlikely to have been in possession of the details, with their as-
tronomical reasons(or at )east some smattering of them) ofthe .Ethiopian,
Egyptian, and various other versions of the ancient mythologue. When
required to specify the length of time occupied in the mourning rites,
the astrologer is very likely .to have stated (as would clearly be most ju-·
dicious for him to do) the medium, or mean, time, which is that apper;.
taining to the latitude of Thebes, the medium station, and the reputed
Egyptian birth-place of Osiris; (which means no more than that Tltebes
was the place of his introduction into Egypt). Tbis mean time is forty
day$ ;..:...or, the information may have been required from Theo.philus
somewhere else about the 26th parallel of North latitude, (perhaps at
Medina, or at Mecca). At Babylon and Byblos-owing to the greater
degree of obliquity of the descension of the stars-the departure of the
constellation occupies a few days more; and at Dedan and Saba it is only
thirty-six days from the beginning of the Aphanism to the beliacal rising
of AldebarAn.
Wherever the Osirian rites were celebrated, this descension of his stars,
was regarded and lamented as the deo.tA of Osiris : and it is curious to
reflect, that this fabled, or figurative, or astronomical, death: is not only
now traceable on the sphere, but in the progress of language also-the
words, Occido, to kill ; and Occidetas,• West, or the place of Sun,-and
Star-set-being derived from a root in the primitive language, which in-
cludes both.these meanings: DeatA: and Westem descent-that of the
Sun and Stars being more emphatically understood. And this equi-
voque, I have no doubt, is intimately connected with the decypheriog
of many an hieroglyph.
I need scarcely recapitulate that we are here supposing the twenty-six
* Orient, or the place of is from the radical or primitive Hebrew .,'IN llur.
Digitized byGoogle
184
stars of the Husbandman, as successively sinking during the Crepuscu-
lum, or short-lived morning twilight of the Southern climes. They dis-
appear during "the glancings of the dawn, (as it is expressed in Job)-
the prime season of ancient sidereal observation, when the Sab1ean aStro-
nomers with pious intensity and scrupuloas exactness, watched the
scent and riHing of those stars; which were to them, at first, " for signs
and for seasons,, and afterwards for deities ; and that, on the very morning
subsequent to the disappearance of the last of these stars, arose the
brilliant leading star of the new year.
Here then (my Lord) the forty days, which a leamed scholar and critic
has ascertained to be the time of mourning for Osiris, where his rites were
duly observed-are measured out by the period of the departure of his
stars; the season of the year accords with that which, from a comparison
of various authorities (including those Of·Macrobius and Plutarch) bas
been ascertained to be that of the Osirian aphanism ; and for the rejoic·
ing at the close of the ceremonies, there is adequate cause, it being the
festival of the sacred ushering in of the vernal season, and celebrated
throughout all the .East, as the most genial and heart-stirring holiday of
the solar year.-Just after the close of the mournful rites, and ·precisely
at the time when the Aspirants and the Sabean public joined their priests
in loud peans to productive causation-When they shouted, Rejoice!
we have found him! arosP. thP. Snn wit.h the splendid AldebarAn ; t&e
Tauric leader of the host of Heaven forty-eight centuries ago, when
on the planet we inhabit, Art and Science were in their infancy,
and to which the most ancient monuments of all tbe Sabrean nations
refer.
Should this date be found a little too early for some of the systems of
sacred chronology ; it will ·in the same degree, serve to confirm others,
amongst which are those of the Septuagint, Eusebius, Isaac Vossius, and
Walton. If Noah be the original constellated Husbandman, it supposes
his apotheosis, or translation to the skies, to have taken place 766 years
after the Deluge; which allows for the three centuries ofhis post-diluvian
life.-In fact, if we suppose the patriarch to have been constellated im-
mediately on his decease, it exactly divides the difference between those
Digitized byGoogle
186
who assert the earliat, and those who have adopted the latut, system of
Chronology, which difference amounts to 700 years.
It will finalJy remain for the general reader to judge whether this re-
markable of the celestial phenomena, with the times, circum-
atances, and leading features, of thescriptural facts relating to the Deluge,
and those of the Osirian cererDGDies, do not entitle the
which I have .the honour to Qft'er, of mysteries, to be .received as
the true one, notwithstandiDg that the rejoicings with which the mysteries
closed, may not seem at first sight, to be mr the found
Osiris. But, I would request him to suspend his ()pinion.on this point,
for we shall presently percei•e the mystical nature of the allusion,
and how these festal rejoicings connect thems,Ives with the systematic
analogy which pervades the whole story.
With the exception already mentioned, of the .stars Kappa, Iota, and
Tlaeta, the constellation 4n. qneation, not, .io.. the low latitude to
which I am here adverting, begin·to reappear in the Eastern quarter of .
the heavens, till after the lapse of about four months. The stars of Tau-
rus have now declined westward, and Virgo is rising heliacally• . It will
presently be perceived that I mention these circumstances with some re-
ference to the scriptural accounts of Noah and the Deluge.
In thE> low latitude of our present problem, the stars of Ursa Major-
otherwise termed the ark of Osiris-aJso set ; and the last of its stars,
Bertei'MUck, returned at the period under discussion to the .Eastern hori-
zon with thosE> in the bead of Leo, a little before the season .of the Sum-
mer Solstice. The stars of the Husbandman soon followed :• the chief
of them, Ras, Miracll, and beiag very nearly simultaneous
in their heliacal rising.
The stars of Ara (the Altar) too, which have been supposed to be cop..
nectE'd with those which record the leading circumstances ofthe1Deluge,
(the Altar having been held to be that on which the patriarch offered his
first post-diluvian sacrifice) rise in these .Ethiopian latitudes, while.those
of the Husbandman embellish the Oriental quarter of the heavens; and
they come to the meridian nearly with his Iatest.-Theee things.are no..
* They followed, at the same hour of Sun-rile, in about a montb.
z2
Digitized byGoogle
;
186
ticed, at once for the sake of truth, and for the gratification o( those per-
sons who may to pursue the hints which I have thrown o·ut, tbat
the consteJiation Bootes may be the patriarchal Husbandman Noah, and
that the more prominent features of the great Deluge may be commemo-
rated on the sphere: or vice versa (as some others have supposed) that
the annual progress of the stars and succession of the seasons, may pos-
sibly have originated the history, or legend, of the Deluge.
I shaJI venture to add here, what has been demonstrated to the best of
my belief. and ability, in my account of the interesting Assyrian monu-
ment which now reposes in the royal library at Paris-namely, that
the stars which Conon converted into the Coma Berenice, were in *he
more ancient Cbaldean planispheres, constellated as a Dove.-Whether
this dove, which subsequently bt-eame the standard of Semiramis and
Assyria, was originally the. Dove of Noah-for the modern Columba
NoacAi is clearly out o(.the question-may perhaps be determined from
reSecting that the first stars of the Dove, rise with the latest of those ·of
the Ark, and the latter stars of the Dove simultaneously with .those. of
the band• of the Hushandman.-At least these are curious coinei-
dences.-,-ln setting, the Dove follows the Atk, and precedes that descent
of the Husbandman of .which the details have been submitted-the
last of its stars (H 32) sink.ing .with the Tau or earliest of the Hu.sband-
man.. .
Returning to the shootings and revelry, which succeeded to those ta-
mentations with which the mysteries of the constellated Husbandman and
first cuhivator of the vine, ;Were annually closed-It appears to me that
the whole is susceptible of a symbolical or analogical interpretation, o{
which the parts are held together by a mystic correlation, or
spondence. between the .celestial and terrestrial phenomena: and which
interpretation,. at the same time that it helps to explain bow the symbo-.
lising system of mythology, grew out of Star-worship-will explain also.
bow the uainitiated Sabreans-or those who in subsequent ages have un-
dertaken to construe their to mistake Osiris for the Sun, and
the Sun for Osiris.
• Genesis, viii. 9. nya that Noah " put forth his band aod took her.''
Digitized byGoogle
187
In my Essay on Signs and Signets, ·I have endeavoured to point
that the error-in a liberal view, the very pardonable, yet the cardinal,
error,-of the Sabmans, consisted in the votaries of that superstition mi.,
taking contiguity of time,-wbicb bas been held to be one of the necessary
modes of the connexion of human ideas-for causation; and oft"ering
that worship, or attaching that sentiment of veneration, to the concomi-
tant sign, which could be due only to the First Great Cause. These
mit;takes which in the minds of some, iiP.generated into wilful imposture&,
have been the very central pivots of aucient superstition ; and the
gling judicial astrologers of Babylon and Memphis appear to have been
at no loss to twna them to deceptive and selfish account-sometimes by
direct obtrusion of the sign on the vacant sense of the suppliant; (seiz..
ing as it were, .and engrossing, his attention ;) at others, stimulating his
imagination by obscure indications, to the utter confusion of his judg-
ment ; and at others again (as in modern fortune-telling) their craft con-
sisted in mere plausibility, addressing itself to the credulity of the vulgar,
and helping itself onward by catching at vague semblances, and
creating occultness.* The progress of Science was with them, not a
primary object. They sought Truth that they might adulterate
ceal it, while they diffused error with impunity ; for their view was, not
to enlighten, but to govern, the minds of others.-Such were the impos-
tures tbat were successfully practised in the East during those early
ages: nor have they yet ceased. Juggling tricks of this kind (as the acute
and profound Michaelis bas not failed to obsene,) were severely punish-
able by the Mosaic Jaws.t
But there was a co-existing state ofgenuine astronomical and metaphy-
sical science; and those hierophaots and mystics of antiquity, who were
really in possession of the sciences, were not only sincere amongst them-
selves, but were far more philosophical aod profound than some modem
writers have given them credit for. Their monuments attest this; and
• A very delusive word, which to such impoatora hu been of the greatest ae"ice.
t See cb. ii. of the <itb vol. of hie .. Commentaries OD the Laws or Moses:" P.articularlr
Articles ccliii. iv. '.
Digitized byGoogle
188 .
Sir William Drummond, in his learned antiquarian diseertatioos, has
abundantly shewn it. Indeed, the Yery jugglery which is alluded to
aboYe, affords conYincing evidence of the fact: for bad not tbe
(MUIUIAipiint) of the early been able by calculation to
foreknow when the Sun or Moon would be eclipsed,• they could not
haYe known when to perform those incantations, and when to affect those
grimaces, which they pretended were neceuary preparations to IMirftt-
li"K the greatP.r luminaries, or, on other oceuions, to their relieving those
hullinariea &om everlasdng darkoess. We now approach the final divi--
sion of the subjt'(:t of my present Essay.
I apprehend that the sacred, or religions, initiations of antiquity-
such as the Samothracian, and Eleusinian, and those more ancient mys-
teries of .Egypt and Phamicia from which they were derived,--consisted
chiefty in being permitted to look, under the guidance of science, behind
the veil of concomitant signs, and seeing by actual representations, the
things signified. They were probably, a philosophical developement, and
coasequent disconnexioo of the vulgar and habitual association of ideas,
including a revelation, in. part at least, astronomical-of the natural
and proper relation between physical cause and effect, and terminating
perhaps ia a final refereDce to the Great Originating Cause of all.-Why
doea Aristophanes cause a dramatic representative of the Initiated to
say ." On us alone does the orb of day shine refulgent?" Why else, dur-
iog the sacred diatclosures, was the San. at midaigitt shewn to the aspi-
• Michaelis says that, eclipeea of the Sun and Moon are sometimes called from an
or Arabic, verb Cwif, Kaclld', or Ctutif, signifying to cru. He adds that " the word
seems in the Bible to mean a pel'IOn who occasions solar or lunar eclipses; that is, from bit
astronomical prescience of their approach ; making all manner of grimaces, singing songs,
and so affecting to enchant the heavenly bodies. Now, among nation• unacquainted with aa..
tronomy, this is a common species of knuery, which gains great respect to its author, and
sometimes gives him a handle for aU variety ofextortions from the people, that he may be pre-
niled upon to relieve the Sun or Moon, from that everlasting darkneu in which by the mere
power of his art, they would otherwise remain involved." I think that this fancied
Sun and Moon cutting, could only have been listened to by the very lowest of the ignorant,
and chiefly of the Jews themidYea,
t " Apuleius mention• seeing the Sun at midnight, among the circumstances of initiation
Digitized byGoogle
rant conld this mean bttt his place at that hour in the Zodiac, at
any giveti season, ·and with reference to the nocturnal meridian--exhi-
bited, as I should suppose, something in the way of Walker's or Lloyd'a•
Eidouraoion?-
· And wherefore was this done ? Wherefore, but because
the Sun, though really the agent of Prondence, must to the eye of ancient
Sabman philosophy, have appeared to· be the immediate cause of those
natural phenomena, of which the vulgar -knew, or were taught, only the
concomitant stellar signs, and regarded·them only with the wonder and
the implicit faith of superstitious ignorance?
Since the above was written, I have met with the following comme•
tary by the learned and erudite T. whicht appears to' me to be
entirely susceptible of astronomical construction, and to admit with
difficulty of any other. · '
" In my dissertation on the Eleusinian mysteries, (he says) I ba1e de-
monstratively shewn that the most sublime part of Inspectiort, in these
mysteries, consisted in beholding Ike Gods tAemielves, invested with a
resplendent light. It appears that in the mysteries of Diana, [the moon]
that Goddess was rendered visible to tbe eyes of the initiated ; and in
the following passage (from Proclus,) we learn that the Goth were lieeD
in all the mysteries. ·
" In all mystic sacrifices and mysteries. the gods exhibit many forms
of themselves, and appear in a variety of shapes: sometimes aa •'fli-
gvred light qf tAem.elvu, is held forth to view;-BOmetimes this light
is figured according to a human form ; and sometimes it proceeds into a
difterentt shape." I shall here beg leave to offer afew remarks.
First: The celestial asterisms, or rather, the inhabitants of Heaven-
which includes the planets also-must be understood, when the author or
Proclus, speaks ot; or alludes to, the Goth. Secondly; The primitive idea
which be bu obac:urely and enigmatically relaled."-Knigbt'a "lnqwi') into tie SJmbolicd
&c. p. ISS.
* In the elaborate antlacienti&c publication of the DilletaDti So(jety, tracea of IUch acenic
uhibitioDB baYing been praented to the upirant.a at Eleuait, are indicated with as much pre-
cision, u the remaining vatigea will WII'I'IDt.
t In bia tranalation of Pauaaoia1, 'foL iii. page i8'7. t Plato'• Bepub., p. 880.
Digitized byGoogle
190
ofGods, according to a passage I have already cited from Herodotus, is
" Disposers," such as the Sabreans believed the planets and constellations
to be, astrologically speaking. Thirdly: By "an unfigv.red light of them-
selves," must be understood the constellated groups of the stars only, as
we behold them on the planispheres and other astronomical monuments
of Cbina•-and on some of the larger globes published by Cary-uncir-
cumscribed by any forms. Hence it is easy to apprehend, that Proclus
means, that these congregations of stars were at other times surrounded
by "humanforms;" and again, in other instances, by cc different shapes"-
a large proportion of the asterisms not being of the human form. ·
Ill maintaining that these mysterious exhibitions were esRentially of as-
tronomical reference, I am far from insisting, or from wishing your Lord-
ship or any of my readers, to infer-that the rites and ceremonies of ini-
tiation were confined to astronomical disclosures. The contrary is indeed
upon record: yet, we must bear in mind, that the recorders were those
who could only guess; for had they known, they might not have told.
So far from it,-they were bound to present to the public only the mask
of mystery. The learned Greek professor of St. Andrews, says, "These
rites, from the care with which they were concealed from the vulgar, ob-
tained the of mysteries."t And the word Mystery, (as my friend
Christie informs me) comes from literally a masked or hidden
thing.-1 imagine that the religionA and "Mysteries" that were
of old represented within our Gothic Cathedrals, are derived from those
of more remote antiquity. ·
The sacrificing of mullets upon these sacred occasionR; the ablutions_
in the sea ; and the offerings of sesamum and salt, might not have
been more than mere ceremonials ; or parts of the mysterious masking:
They are not unsusceptive however of astronomical reference--if it were
worth while to pursue those smaller matters which do not seem
* Some antique sacred of bronze from that country, were in the year 1821 consigned
for sale to Mr. Chriatie; where the group• of atars were thus repreaeuted; and which were
in other retpecta exceedingly curious.
t Euay• on the Institution•, Government., and Mannen of the States of Ancient Greece,
p. 89, 1819.
Digitized by Google
191
to reach "the height of my great·argument." The same boly baskets
which contained the sesamum and salt, contained also-or were sup-
posed to contain-serpents and pomegranates, which were unquestion-
able and important Sabrean symbols :-the former, of the paths through
the heavens of the Sun aud Moon; the latter (being an orb surmounted
by an asterisk) of the annual conjunction of the greater htminary, -with
Jupiter, probably, .or· with Aldebarlin.-ln short, iny opinions of these
mystic ceremonies, although not the same with those which Dr. Hill has
been·led to infer, are perfectly compatible therewith, while they more sa-
tisfactorily account for the hierophant or· officiating priest, being alter-
nately considered by the initiated, as a " type of the Son, of the Moon,
and of Mercury."
· If the secrets of the Mysteries were astronomical; or were so even in
part-the same religious dread which would account for their being so
rarely-if ever-divulged; accounts also for the little that has been di-
rectly imparted, and the much that has been withheld, of ancient astro-
nomy. .lEscbylos occasionally deals in astronomical notices: blending
with them the sacred charm and elevated pathos of his poetry ; and it is
known that would have been in danger of capital punishment
for revealing the mysteries, had he not been able to prove to the satisfac-
tion of the Areopagus, that he nevet· was initiated.
Again, why is Herodotus so chary and so vague in his astronomical
notices, when treating of the ancient Sabrean nations? Why so much
free-masonry? Why, in mentioning the deified animals of Egypt, (which
were of astronomic reference) does he fear to disclose the reasons of their
being held sacred ? Why pot off his with, " If I were to ex-
plain these reasons, I should be Jed to the disclosure of those holy mat-
let'S which I particularly wish to avoid, and which, but from necessity, I
should not have discussed at all ?"-What doeR he mean when he says
" the Persians of later times" [than those when they began to sacrifice
to the Sun, Moon, and JoveJ" added Urania to the number oftheir deities,
after the example of tke AssYRIANS and ARADIANS?" His translator
and commentator (Mr. Beloe) is here evidently puzzled by the equivoque,
or is very unreflecting, when he thinksto satisfy b'is readers byinforming
2A
Digitized byGoogle
192
them that Herodotus means by Urania, "not the Muse, but the Celestial
Venus:" which, beside that it is the mere derry down of litera-
ture, cannot be the meaning of Herodotus ; because in the very next
sentence, he says that " Mylitla is the name of the Assyrian Venus"
without seeming to imply the least consciousness of the existence of more
than a single Venus.
As the objects of the adoration of the Persians have been much con-
troverted, I shall here beg leave to add a word or two. It appears to
me that, when Herodotus states that the Persians sacrificed to Jove, we
must employ what strength of vision we may possess, in looking through
the literary cloud which here presents itself, unto the clear cerulean
vault; and through the irrelevance to Southern and Western Asia, of
those poetical personifications of their deities, in which the Greeks so
much delighted to indulge; and that we should understand, by Jove, the
diurnal expanse of Heaven: (as indeed Herodotus somewhere explains:)
When he informs us that "they added Ura'llia," &c. "e flhould in like
manner, understand by that word the nocturnal heavens, or the study and
worship of the constellations. This, however, was but a revival of a
Persian religion of times much anterior to those of Herodotus.
Furthermore, and with more direct reference to the present occasion-
in Euterpe, clxx. we read that " the Egyptians have at Sais, the tomb of.
a certain persfJ71age whom I do not tkink m!Jselfpermitted to specify. It is
behind the temple of Minerva"-so called by the Greeks, but in fact the
temple of Isis (or Nature) where was the often-cited renigmatical inscrip-
tion, "I am w/w.l was, and is, axd is to come. No mortal katk yet un-
veiled me."-The tomb of that personage whom Herodotus did not think
himself permitted to name, he says, " is behind the temple of this God-
dess, and is continued the whole length of the wall of that building.
Around it are many large obelisks, near which is a lake of a circular
form. Upon this lake are represented by night the accidents which hap-
pened to him whom I dare not name. The Egyptians call them their
mysteries. Concerning these, at the same time that I myself suffi-
ciently informed, I feel myself compelled to be silent.-Of the ceremo-
nies also, in honour of Ceres,'' (the prototype of the Eleusinian mysteries)
Digitized byGoogle
193
u I may not venture to speak, further than the obligations of religion will
allow me."-Thus far the initiated Grecian.
Were these accidents that were represented on the lake by night, the
leading events of the Deluge? and· were they part of the Osirian rites?
I cannot tell. Perhaps it can now only be the subject of conjecture: but
-we may be quite certain that if the mysteries were astronomical, or
were so in any degree, we can obtain no voluntary information respect-
ing them from.Herodotus.
Returning to these mysteries, and to the Egyptian legend of the bearer
of the van and pastoral staff, as they have been treated of by others, I
have pleasure in noticing a further concordance between the results of
my own researches, and those of Dr. Hill of St. Andrews; according to
whom, the initiated were taught, that among the objects of their pious re-
verence, were " men, who having been the authors ofsome useful invention,
or having rendered some signal service to their fellow creatures, had after
death been celebrated by the poets [who were also the astronomical pro-
phets] as superior to humanity." The general result of an investigation
carried on in my last Essay, when combined .with the revelation in the
present afforded by the ancient annual descension of the stars of the Hus-
bandman, could not have been more exactly expressed. And I think
there is further evident connexion between what we know of the
creed of the patriarchs-both ante-diluvian, and post-diluvian-and
the following, which is the principal and concluding passage of the
explanatory part of Dr. Hill's E888y: "The bierophant then taught them,
that there was one supreme cause of all, alike free from imperfection and
change; who by his providence regulated the course of events, through-
out the Universe."
The aggregate of the festivals of the Husbandman, afford moreover, a
pertinent and important instance of the ancient and popular mistaking
of a mystic sign, for a cause signified. The constellation of Osiris (so
to call it) was the concomitant sign only, of that annually returning sea-
son when Nature monrned. It took place, as the classical writers have
agreed; and as any pers.on having a celestial globe with slight knowledge
of its uses, may easily convince himself, between tb.e ancient winter sol-
2A2
Digitized byGoogle
194
stice and the vernal equinox, when terrene nature, or Isis, annuaJiy droops,
or mourns; and it ended with the rejoicings that were consequent to the
reappearance of those stars of genial abundance, which· are about the head
of the zodiacal Bull; and of which Al-debarAn is the chief. Terrene na:-
ture ;-physical, earthly, existence; that which Is ;-that which; accord-
ing to Plutarch, was originally sculptured over the entrance of the Del-
phic temple ,-that mystic syllable which is twice repeated in the proper
name of the great Goddess of Egypt; that awful I AM,* perhaps, which
* Soame Jenyna baa treated this extraordinary mystic phrase, with penetra-
tion ; for which see the 4th volume of his " &c.: but, granting him hi11 position;
that eziltmce il •vcceuitle; ita principles are permanent. Compare the I am of ExodUtJ,
ch. iii. with the following in ch. vi. " and Elohim spake unto Moses, and said unto him, I am
JeAO'Dah; and appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacoh, by the name of El-Shadai,
but by my name Jehovah was I not known unto them."
But Mr. Knight's elucidation-although not written o11tensibly in explanation of the mystic
I am, is yet more satisfactory, and is particularly illustrative of our Sabean view of tbt: subject;
aince it shews the relations which were supposed to subsist between Existence; tbe Great Cause
ofall, or soul ofexistence; and the movements ofthe celestial phenomena;· and developes-as far
aa philosophy baa yet been permitted to reacb,-the mysterious connexion between phy-
sics and metaphysics. He says (in ch. 78, 79, of his learned Inquiry) " The great active priu:.
ciple of the Universe, though personified by the poets, and dreaaed out with all the variable
attributes of human nature, was supposed by the mystic tbeologista to act by the permanent
laws of pre-established rule; and not by the fluctuating impulses of any thing analogous to the
human will; the very exertion of which appeared to them to imply a sort of mutability of in-
tention, that could only arise from new ideas and new sentiments, both equally incompatible
with a mind infinite in ita powen of action and perception : for to such a mind, those events
which happened yesterday, and those which are to happen during the immeasurable Oux of
time, are equally present, and ita will is necestarily THAT WHICH Js, because all that is arose
from ita will. The act that gave existence, gave all the cun,;equences and effects of exi5tence,
which are therefore all equally dependent upon the first cause ; and bow remote soeyer from it,
still connected with it by a regular and indissoluble chain of gradation : so that the: movements
of the great luminaries of heaven and those of the reptiles that elude the sight, have
some: mutual to each other, all being alike integral parts of one great whole."
" As the general movement o( this great whole, was suppoted to be derived from the first
divine impulse which it received when constructed; too the particular movements of each subor-
dinate part, were supposed to be der)ved from the first impulse which each received upon enter-
ing the world: for aa every sub&equent event was produced by ·some preceding one, all were
really produced by the first. The moment therefore of every man's birth, being supposed to
determine every circumatance of hie life, it was only oecesaary to find out in what mode the
.,
Digitized byGoogle
196
Mose's adored at the foot of Horeb, whilst studying under Jethro, the
priest of Midlan, and before his devotions were turned toward Jehovah-
NATURE, I beg to repeat-annually mourned-as she· still mourns-this
languishing season of the year ; this desolate depth of winter, when ve-
getation perishes. It is the stormy season, when Typhon ·rages. The
stellated Husbandman-the first cultivator of the vine-(the knowledge
of which, with the art of expressing and fermenting itS ·generous juice;
De. Pauw affirms to have been first brought from lEthiopia to Egypt}-
He whose stars arose in the East, immediately after Vindenriatrix• or
the vintage star, and as if under the genial infiuEmce of its rays-After
his annual career of prosperity: after revelling orientally for a quarter of
a year and attaining his meridian altitu'de with Virgo-as the stars of the.
Water-urn rise, and Aquarius begins to pour forth his annual deluge-
declines to the Westward preceded by the stars of Ursa Major, or the
Ark:of Osiris. Orientally, the Husbandman was the sigri, though not the
cause, of that happiness, in which Nature-·the great Goddess ofpassive
production-rejoiced: He is now in the occidental quarter of the hea-
vens, which is the place, as it marks the season, of comparative regret;
(and hence perhaps, his attractive and repulsive emblematical accompa-
niments) vigour, aR JlP. ifP.Clinett towards the North-western
horizon, is gradually abated:-The Solar Year grows old. And, as his·
stars descend beneath the Western wave, Osiris dies.
During the whole of his celestial course, we have seen that this con-
stellation is no other, and no more, than the concomitant nocturnal sign,
of changes, of which the Sun-the prime agent of Providence-may be
regarded as the physical cause. Can we wouder that superstitious ig-
celestial bodies, supposed to be the primary wheels of the universal machine, operated at that
moment, in order to discover all that would happen to him afierwards!';.......Hence the great
number, and the: high importance, of the Sabrean horoscopc:a-But all comment on a philoso-
phical devdopement, so comprehensive, pertinent, and exactly just, would be at onee presump-
tuous, and superfluous.
* Here ia a fresh gleam of sidereal light. The vintage atar muat have thrown ita rays on the
constellated vine, in the view of those who regulated their science and its symbols by the
Egyptian planiapherea of the aecond Hermes (of which I have already treated) where a vine:
circumscribed the stars of the Husbandman.
Digitized byGoogle
190
or such literary tyros in science as ·Diodoros-should
oonmund the Sun with Osiris ?• Can we be surprised that the rites
of the latter should vary in regard to time with differences of latitude?
Or that the hieropbalits should exclaim at the close of their sacred cere-
monies, "We have found him" (the supposed lost Osiris) "cOACeakd ia
t.V flfltlwaees of tlaa &.?,-esoterically meaning by thts, that they had
found the principle of the re-invigoration of productive causation.
-This re-invigorating principle, was also found-zodiacally speaking,
aud as befOre intimated-to be stationed in the Aead of the Bvll. Now,
Phltar.ch informs us that .Sera!JU was the name by which Osiris was
called, ;after be had chauged his natore, or had descended to the itifemal
reg-i0118--wllich is now understood to mean the netlaer laemisplure: The
two latter syllables of this word-namely Api1-appears to be a direct
aBusion to the celestial Bull, the more ancient reputed station of genial
•uence, throughout all the nations ofthe East. Whether the first syllable
he (as•a learned doctor supposes) the radix of Osiris, I cannot tell: Af-
ter.offering a thought or two on the occasion, I must leave it to the scho-
lan; ·who I believe have not yet settled whether the initial syllable of the
Taurine deity ofEgypt, should be written and pronounced Ser, Sar, orSir.
But probably all of these may have been locally right in di1ferent parts
of Egypt, when this deity·was in his glory. Indeed we can hardly ·sup-
pose that in those early ages, enunciation and orthography were more
• I llue nmtured· to apeak here of an ancient miatake, into which many of the modern•
have also been perhapa by the inadvertency of Diodorua. Among them is the
justly celebrated Cambridge professor of Astronomy, Dr. Long; who writes, "The Egyptians
wonhipped the heavenly bodies, but eapecially the Sun and Moon, which they called their
great Gods: They thought the Sun [wlwm the.IJ called O.tiru] a proper representative of the
Spirit of Nature. or the Soul of the World, or the Supreme Being, who ia every where preaent,
exercising his power over every p.art of the universe. The Moon, as she receives her light
from the Sun, waa looked upon u a female and called Iais, which goddeu is aometimea made to
aignify univenal material nature conaidered as pauive and auaceptihle of various impreuiona,
forma, and qualities."-'l'be whole of this passage from ch. 2 of Long's Astronomy, ia extremely
pertinent, excepting the mistake, which I have judged it proper to place between two keeper-1,
as a departure from reason and truth, worthy of being watched, if not of permanent confine·
ment.
Digitized byGoogle
197
settled tban this degree of resemblance amounts.ro: and<DOtwitbstandiDg
that the argument here, is concerning ·a word, I rely on -sculpture.
chief proof of what I shall venture to add-namely : That·all the abov&
are from the same Oriental etymon with the. Gbaldean word· &r.o..
-or, perhaps-(regarding the word; as it has reached us through the
channel of the Hebrew language, -,Q), (&r.)-for· ilie termination ap:-.
pears to have been added by its Greek transmitters.
Now this word, which probably belonged .to the primitive, or parent,.
language of the East, when written without the-vowel points, might bet
variously pronounced Ser, Srw, or Sir; and·it literally
to Parkhurst, to regulate, direct, and rule; or to be made straight: Coe.s
tard (who must be confessed to be inferior authority. uport such a poin&)
says it means initium, or commencement: and ..Julius Bate says, a direc-
tor or ruler. .Either, or all, of these senses, apply in the present case:..
Sir, Sar, or Ser-Apia, is the Bull of comrnen.cemaat, or of regulatioa; .or
he is the ruler, (of the cyere at present· under our notice-;) or.he makes
straigkt-that is, brings the stars in·question .to the. same meridian at.the,
recommencement of the cycle.
I am supposing this Saros to have been ooe of the astronomical cycles
of .Egypt, as well as of Chaldea. Costard thinks it is the same with
the Plinian period, and the Met&niot cycle. Perhaps it was k.n.o:wn:
throughout Chaldean Arabia, Egypt and Greece, as a returning epocha.
of cardinal importance, when the popular Iunar zodiac tallied with the real
nightly mansions of tl1e moon: a recurrence of peculiar sacredness among
thestar-worshippers, on which we have already bestowed some attention,
and of which I shall treat more particularly in a subsequent discourse.
At the close of this period (of eighteen years and a fraction).. it
would appear that the sacred Apis wa1:1 put to death by the .EgypfiaD
priests, and inhumed with considerable and imposing ceremony; aod
• Some other meanings are annexed to this word by the lexicographers, Parkbunt and Bate.
And among those which are supposed to have grown from this ancient root, are the modero-
meruure, n&e711Urale, Sir, Sieur, Sire, and Serit1.
t It consists of 123lunationa, and hu been much esteemed by some modern utronomere•.
amongst whom ia Dr. Halley.
Digitized byGoogle
198
that his successor-whom heaven bad been pleased miraculously to ho-
nour, or the priests to impress, with those circular and crescent-formed
spots, which were esteemed to be the criteria of holy incarnation-was
installed with due appearance of piety. _
We may now pursue the thread of our maio purpose, (which in this
place, was to explain those analogies of the mystic legend that were of
annual recurrence,) perhaps with some fresh advantage.-In the treatise
of Plutarch, we read that Horus, [the vemal Sun, or productive energy of
the new year,] displeased with Isis, [Nature,] for setting Typhon [de-
striictive power,] at liberty, after Isis and Horus had conquered him,-
tore:otr his'.mother's diadem: but that Hermes [the thrice-great Egyptian
_astronomer, and subsequent God of signs] stepped in, and to heal the
breach, placed on the head of Isis, a helm in the shape of the bead of an
Ox.
·; Thus far Plutarch. Now, what conld be the crown of terrene nature,
but'the fruits-the produce of the year? What could mean the superin-
duced Boll's head, but productive energy renovated, and reappearing by
its sign, in the head of the Zodiacal Bull? What can we understand by
Nature ·setting destructive power at liberty, but that periodical change
which takes place as the solar year declines? And what does the
symbolical series form, but the annual system of the revolution of the
Seasons?
Tbe harmonious analogies of Nature, and the sublime science of As-
tronomy, have blended their divine influence in biuding together the inci-
dents of this annual Egyptian drama. Plutarch further mentions that
the Egyptian adepts were accustome'l occasionally to cover the statues
of Osiris with a flame-coloured veil, which is precisely consistent with
the rest of the allegory: for-wl1at were the occasions?-The veiliog.took
place soon after the Summer Solstice, when the sign Osiris again rose
with the Sun. The flame-colour, was therefore an obvious allusion to the
genial light and warmth of the solar radiance, which now veiled at their
morning rising, the stars of the Husbandman.
Digitized byGoogle
199
Upon several minor and homogeneous matters, which would go to. the
support of my explication, I have for the present, forbome to touch,,
leRt they should prove tedious ta those who are less deeply interested in
these matters than myself; but there is one strongly presumptive
ment of a general nature, which might be used against the tenor of lOY
interpretation,. and which it would be both unwise and uncaodid tQ. let
pass.
It might he held-even by those who may grant deficiency of astronomi-
cal science on the parts of Diodorus Siculus, and Plutarch-to be nearly
impossible that the constellated Husbandman of Assyria, Egypt, and
could have been the Bacchus of Greece and Rome, without
some uninitiated classical writer or other, being astronomer enough and
mythologist enough to know it, and honest enough to have told it in his
writings : or without some initiated writer letting the indications of that
mythological fact escape him.
This might be urged, and ( confess certain misgivings on this score,
and acknowledge that they have bad no inconsiderable influence in hold-
ing back for awhile, my faith in my own discovery. Yet, on the
band, of all species of ancient facts, the present was the most likely tQ
have eluded record, fenced about as it was by creeds of mysticism: and;
it would be over scrupulous not to suppose it possible for modem re-
search to redeem or recover any of those fragments of wreck that float
on the ocean of time, now bidden by its undulations, and anon distantly
end partially visible.
Enough of misgiving remained however, to put me upon asking myself
certain examinatory questions, and upon extending my researches accord-
ingly. Among theMe questions were, whether unnoticed mentions of, or
allusions to, the stellated Bacchus, might not have escaped the mytholo-
gical antiquaries? And, which were the classical writers, whose works
have come down to us, whose subjects would have led them to treat of
these matterM, and who were at the same time not sworn repositaries ofthe
ancient mythological freemasonry? My responses were essentially as
follow:-
1 thought Virgil must have been of the number of the initiated : I
2B
Digitized byGoogle
200
thought him notwithstanding, far more likely than most others, to have
touched the true chord, and that an intent listener was not unlikely to
discover symphonious melodies, at least, amongst those Eclogues and
Georgics, where he treats of Astronomy with such evident maHtery of the
science.
Now then-supposing myself to be honoured with the reader's com-
pany, let us see.-" The fan (or winnow) of Bacchus," is mentioned in
the lst Georgie, v. 247 of Dryden's translation: and in v. 319, &c. we
meet with,
" Begin whtn the slow waggoner descend•,
Nor cease your sowing till mid-winter ends."
Does this allude to Bootes? No: for in v. 336, &c. both the Bear1 are
specifically alluded to as follows,
" Around our pole, the spiry Dragon glides,
And like a winding stream the Beare divides:
The le11 and greater, who by Fate's decree,
Abhor to dive."-
On the planispheres where two Bears appear, there could be no northern
waggon; and therefore, no waggoner. The Waggoner meant by Virgil in
this place must be Auriga, the season of whose acronical setting agrees
with the agricultural precept which he here lays down concerning the
sowing of grain. This is a minor point, certainly; but, it may conduce
to a clear view of the question, to shew where the poet does not mean
the stars of Bacchus, since it iocreaHes our conviction of his meaning in
other places. And in the opening of the Poem, v. 7-9, BAccHus is
especially invoked (together with Ceres)-
., Ye Deities! who fields and plains protect,
Who rule the seasons and the Year direct :
Bacchus and fostering Cere•"-
But this rendering, although pertinent to our occasion, is not quite cor-
rect. The original is,
- - - " Voa, 0 clariuima mundi
Lumina, Jabentem, cmlo quae ducitis annum,
Liber et alma Ceres."---
Digitized byGoogle
iOI
Which I beg to submit would be more correctly translated by, Yov, 0
brightest luminaries ofthe World, Bacchus and Ceres I who in Aea11a
lead the declining Year I
Indeed Mr. Granville Penn, who in his erudite and judicious " 9bser-
vations in illustration of Virgil's 4th Eclogue,"• has occasion for a corrE-ct
rendering of the verses, has translated the last of them still more ex-
actly to our purpose-He writes, " Ye Stars who govern the declining
Year,"-Not that it is material: since by bright luminaries, who in hea-
ven lead the declining year, stars must necessarily be meant, and itfollows
to logical demonstration, that Virgil believed in a constellated Ceres and
Bacchus.
I have the honour of quite agreeing with Mr. Peon and his cited autbori-
tiea, that the stars ofVirgo, were sacred to Ceres. Indeed some astronomi-
cal writers identify Virgo with Ceres,t and none dispute that she is "sig-
num Cereris." But I venture to think that had that gentleman recollected,
or been aware of the existence of the coostellated cultivator of the vine;
and had be known, or pereeived, how homogeneous and pertinent to his
own conclusions with regard to the true meaning of the Mantuan bard,
were the transits or descensions of the stars of that constellation, I have
-the further pleasure to think that on this point also, there would have
been no difference between us: I persuade myself that he would have
given honour due to the stars of .Bacchus-the first cultivator of the vine
-sometimes celestially depicted:I: as the vine itself,-and would not bave
claimed that honour for those of Libra.
Had Virgil understood, and had he meaut to imply, that Bacchus was
the tutelary Deity of the stars of Libra, the probability is that somewhere
among the several places wherein he has mentioned that sign, be would
have informed us of this coonexion; but, not only has be not done thhl,
but I believe that no other ancient writer bas done it; and the Roman
name of Vindemiatriz, or the vintage-star, we may be very certain would
• Printed for W. Miller and R. H. Evant, London, 1810.
t Among them are Dr. John Hill in bit Urania, and Mr. A. Jamieson in bit Celestial Atlas.
The latter say&, " the uaual symbol of this portion of the Zodiac it a damsel whom popular be-
}ief in Greece represented as Ceres with eal'l of corn in her band."
t AI before noticed, in the Egyptian plaoispbere brought forward by as being
that of the second Hermea.
2B2
Digitized byGoogle
not have been conferred on a star of Virgo, had the stars of Libra been
regarded as those of Bacchus.
Bot a reference to my newly-mounted globe, of which I shall here set
down the results, will probably supersede all further argument concern·
ing the matter.-Aboot the epocha of the Augustan age, the westernmost
stars of Pisces were beginning to be the place of the.vernal -equinox.;
those of Gemini that of the Summer Solstice: and the Arctic pole was
near a small star now engaged in the head of Cameleopardalos. Eleva-
ting the pole nearly to Nortb, which, being the latitude ofthe Campania
of Rome, we may suppose to have ·been·that in the contemplation of the
poet-if we bring the stars in question to the Eastern horizon, what are
the phenomena that present themselves ?-The earliest star of Virgo
(whom it may be as well to call Ceres in this place) is rising simulta-
neously with the Ras-the principal star of Bootes (or Bacchus) when
Arcturus is kept out of the q11estion; and the ascends
.precisely ·with Bacchus being in fact the chief northern
paranatellon of Ceres.
When they " lead the declining year"-that is to say, when the stars of
Ceres and Bacchus set heliacally-Vindemiatriz descends about the
same distance of time after Spica, that the Italian vintage is in succeed-
ing to the wheat-harvest; and sets the very last of the stars of Ceres
excepting a very small one (of the 5th or 6th magnitude) in her hand;
and these immediately precede the setting of the stars of Bacchus: the
Sun being at the time in Libra, and of course the season just after the
autumnal equinox.-So that Virgil's apostrophe to the stars of Ceres and
Bacchus, as bright luminaries wko irt heaven lead Ike declining Year, is
not less astronomicaJiy correct, than it is harmonious and poetic. I shall
here beg leave to close this argument-1 thought to have also adverted
to Eusebius, who, as I am informed, has mentioned his belief that the
constellation Bootes is the Osiris of Egypt: but the day is really too far
spent. I must content myself for the present with this brief mention.
Tlte succe11ionoftke Pole Stars appears to have more powerful claims on
our attention: but e\•en this I must postpone for awhile.
With that high degree of respect, which I have long felt and cherished
for the mild virtues of your Lordship, I have the honour to remain, &c. &c.
Digitized by Google
1
I
----..,..-------------------------
\
I
\
TO lLLt'liTaA.TE TH& !IIOVEJIJ!:I•T OF 'nD llt'C:t'J:IIIIIOl' o• Tllll POLJ:•IITAall.
P.S. THESE Sabrean hieroglyphics are a sort of Gotham of my own:-
a new discovered country which has formerly been inhabited ; but of
which the roads are overgrown, and of wbich there exists no better than
a rude and half obliterated map. I did not therefore choose to impede
the progress, or retard the survey, we were making, by stopping to dwell
upon the history of the arctic circles, and the succession of the pole-stars:
yet some such sojournment, or something to answer the same end, seems
necessary to a clear understanding of that part of our subject. I hope
therefore that this succedaneum will be found acceptable in the form of
a Postscriptum, or Appendix.
Beside that our purpose is scientific and explanatory ; or rather, is
explanation through the means of science,· to which a certain degree of
correctness is eftsential; this part of the history of the Heavens is highly
interesting in itself. With the view of clearing up this matter, then, your
Lordship and my other readers will allow me to return to our learned
countryman·s Asiatic researches.
•
Digitized byGoogle
204
Mr. Colebrooke says, " I shall here remark that the notion of a polar
star, common to the Indian and Grecian celestial spheres, implies consi-
derable antiquity. It cannot have been taken from our present pole-star
(a urste minoris), which as Mons. Bailly has observed, (Astron. Ancienne,
5 J J) was remote from the pole when Eudoxus described the sphere; at
which time, according to the quotation of Hipparchus, there was a star
situated at the pole of the world. Bailly conjectures, as the intermediate
stars (of the 6th magnitude,) are too small to have designated the pole,
that the Kappa Draconis was the star meant by Eudoxus, which had
been at its greatest approximation to the pole, (little more than 4° from it)
about J236 .B. C. It must have been distant between seven and eight
degrees of a great circle, when Eudoxus wrote. Possibl!J tile great star
in the Dragon, which is situated very near to the circle described by the
north pole round the pole of the ecliptic, had been previously designated
as the polar-star. It was within one degree of the north pole abQut
28.16• B. C.-As we know that the idea could not be taken from the star
in the tail of Ursa-minor, we are forced to choose between Bailly's con-
jecture, or [and] the supposition of a still greater antiquity. I should
therefore be inclined to extend to the Indian sphere, his conjecture
respecting that of Eudoxus."t
But are we indeed thus forced, and thus restricted in our election?-
Looking at the sphere itself, I may be permitted to ask, how came M.
Bailly and Mr. Colebrooke to overlook-at least to omit publicly to
notice-the Beta Ursa Minoris? It is a larger and brighter star than
the Kappa Draconis, and is equally near to the circle described by
the pole of the Equator (or of the world, as it is termed by Mr. Cole-
brooke) round that of the Ecliptic. There was moreover an unformed
star of the fourth magnitude-that is to say, a star which stands detached
from all constellations, just above the back of the lesser Bear, and
marked with a Roman a in the modern catalogues.-ln fact there are
three stars above the back of Ursa Minor, which must all have been near,
and the southwesternmost of them very near, the polar point during the
• I reckon it to have been at ita nearest approximation about 8000 years B. C.
t Asiatic Researcbea, vol. ix. p. 329.
Digitized byGoogle
2Q.S
·period wheA the solstice passed through the middle degrees ofLeo:
Beta ofUrsa Minor, being ofthe third magnitude, and still to that
constellated Bear by which the earliest navigators are recorded to have
fearlessly steered; and the most ancient caravans to have nocturnally tra-
versed with equal confidence, the torrid deserts of Arabia*-I should Rnp-
pose must then have been denominated the star of the arctic pole; and
perhaps may be the same that was once called by the Greeks Phamice.
A stronger argument remains. The Beta Ursa-minoris happens to be
one of those stars which still bear names that were originally derived
from the ancient astronomy of Arabia ; and many of these old Arabic
names, are still radiant with the star-light of antiquity. They remind us
of that sublime pasMage of Addison, wherein he suggests of the stars
whose distances human mensuration and the powers of human
vision, that their light-with all the native velocity of that fluid-may
have been travelling toward our planet ever since the era of creation.
The ancient light of the star in question (if our metaphor be duly fur-
nished with legs) we must suppo&e to have just arrived at our ocular
sense. The star is marked on the modem globes, Kochab. What
literal meaning of that word?"
Dr. Hill, in the" Urania," which he has dedicated to your Lordship's
noble and much honoured ancestor, says that Kochab-zedec means, Sta.r
of Justice : Sherborn says, that Cocab Shemo.li means, Star of the North.
Kochab then, should mean star; or emphatically tile star (as we migh.t
now call the Pole-star, the star of stars.)-On the other hand Mr. A.
Jamieson, treating of this very ·star in his Celestial Atlas, affirms that the
word Kochab is from the Arabic Kutab, a hinge or axle. As I am no
Arabic scholar, I cannot determine between these authorities. I
here the Oriental learning of my friend Lockett. I should suppose,
however, that an astronomical scholar of Jamieson's pretension, would
* The Koran, Sur. vi. ver. 98, says, "God bath given you the Stars to be your guide• in the
dark, both by land and sea." And Diodorutc, who is believed to have tran.cribed from
Agatharcide1, writes, " The Southern parts of Arabia are made up of sandy plain• of a prodi-
gious extent ; the travellers through which, direct their courses by the Bean, in the same
manner as is done at sea."
Digitized byGoogle
206
take care to be in the right upon such au occasion, and the preponderance
of plain sense and meaning is clearly on his side. But there may possibly
be no contradiction here; for while Kutab may mf'.an hinge or axle,
Kochab may mean star; either or hoth of which are applicable.
Be these matters as they may, here appears a plain indication that the
Kochab of the modern sphere, was once the Pole-star of the Arabian
astronomy; for there must have been some especial reason for calling
·the Beta Ursa minoris, either the hinge or axle, or emphatically, the Star;
and none other presents itse)£ The hinge or axle is indeed precisely in
·point; either being more pertinently expressive of what is meant, than
our modern term pole. Of what else than the diurnal revolutions of this
globe, could this star have been the supposed hinge or ·axle?-The name
Kochab establishes (I think) the superior claims of the star which bears
it, to of the Kappa Draconis; for independently of its equal
proximity to the circular path of the pole of the Equator, and of its
being a larger and brighter star; if we understand by this Arabic word,
the Star, we are necessarily conducted to this while if we
understand by it the hinge or axle, we are to the same conclusion with
yet greater readiness and certainty. On the whole, I submit, my Lord,
that we may safely believe that the Beta Ursa-minoris, was certainly
·regarded as the ancient northern termination of the axis of the equator
-Not so early, of course, as the Alpha Draconis, nor even as the era of
the nrst institution of the rites of Osiris; but, at the time quoted by Mr.
Colebrooke from .Ettdoxus, and for some centuries before and after.
It is partly with the view, and for the sake, of assisting the superior
astronomical claims (as they appear to me) of the Arabian ..Ethiopia-of
that country which conferred on Kochab, Aldebaran, and Dubhe,• theil'
ancient denominations; that I have gone into this investigation of the
• Tbe star Dubhe-the Alpha of Una-majori11, obtained its Arab name, at the same time
and under the Jame circumstances with Kochab : for Dubhe means Guide, (I believe it alao
means Bear) and the colure of the summer 110lstice passing exactly through it "'ben Kochab
waa the Pole-star, it became the guide of ordinary observers, through whose agency the true
pole-star (aa well as the place of the colure,) was known, as the pointer• are the guide at present
-the Beta Uraa-majoria, having subsequently been associated with the Alpha for that purpose,
and under that d(llignation.
Digitized byGoogle
'
names and places of the Pole-stars prior to the formation of the Grecian
sphere; for in point offact, the real place of the North pole, at the distant
epocba which we are now contemplating, was the same, whether we
regard the Kappa Draconis, or the Beta Ursa-minoris, as the Polar star:
that is to say, the circle described by the pole of the equator round that
of the ecliptic, passed so exactly between these stars, that a twelve inch
globe does not enable one to pronounce either to have been the nearest
to the periphery of that circle. These ancient Arabian names, however,
being wGrds of previous meaning, may be thought to have some weight,
when combined with the passages (cited in the above Essay, and which
I hope the reader bas not forgotten) from Strabo and Theophrastus, in
favour of the claims of the Oriental or Arabian Saba. The claims of the
two Sabas, are like those of the two stars, and we are here glad of a ray
of auxiliary light from the ancient language of Arabia.
There bas been then, according to the above premises, a sucC?ession of
at least three pole-stars, since the epocha which is generally regarded as
that of the Creation : the first having been the Alpha Draconis ; the
second Kochab, or the Beta Ursa-minoris; and the third Cynosura, or the
Alpha Ursa-minoris-our present Pole-star: for whatever stars are situ-
ale'd in or near 000. 33'. N. a parallel which marks the space between the
celestial and the terrestrial poles, will in succession become polar stars.
The Etching which is placed at the bead of the present appendix, and
a few remarks on it, will explain this. It is known among Astronomers,
that what is termed the precession ofthe equinoxes, is in reality-or rather
is caused by-a gradual motion of the pole ofthe Equator (or terrestrial
pole) round that of the Ecliptic, (or axis upon which the celestial pheno-
mena revolves,) which motion is so exceedingly slow, that it bas not yet
advanced much more than through three of the twelve Zodiacal
since the presumed era of Creation : and in these high northern regions
of the sphere the degrees of longitude are so considerably lessened, that
it has been found eligible to measure its progress on the .Ecliptic. Even
there it amounts to no more than a single degree in seventy-two years.
As the pole of the equator slowly moved along the periphery of thir;
circle-where it has ever been moving-it arrived about sixty-.four cen-
turies ago, near the Alpha Draconis-within about the same distance
Digitized byGoogle
208
that it is at present from Cynosura :-1 was about to write that then com-
menced the polar reign of the Alpha Draconis; but it must have com-
menced-if we could suppose that astronomy was known and a Pole-
star was recognized, from at least eighteen centuries before-ifthis planet
were then in being: for there is no star further back in the circle, till we
arrive at the iota Draconis. · Beyond the alpha Draconis it might there-
fore be thought idle to
When ·the pole had advanced from wherever was its starting point, along
the arc or verge ofthis circle, till it came to be nearer to Kochab
and the kappa Draconis, than to the alpha; one of these (Kochab as I
have must have succeeded to the dignity of the Arctic star;
and again, before it arrived at its present place, a star of the fifth
tude in the head of the modern Cameleopardalus, might for a while, have
enjoyed the honours of the pole-star,-if stars so small could be supposed
to have been successful candidates for an honour so great.
The stars, though their motions be held together by the strictest geo-
metrical science, have been, as is well known, the subject, or vehicle,
of much poetic fiction; and of some fiction which is not at all poetic.
Haa the mind of man been too restless to be satisfied with constantly con-
templating what was indubitably true and always the same,-unless some
fable were engrafted on it?-And must Astronomy seek to divert it?-
Or has she been into a paltry service?-This curve in Hea-
vens, at the extremity of the axis of the Earth, is the scythe of Time:
All things have been mown down by it. At least the analogy which
would support this new reading of an old legendary is much more
simple and credible than many which have treasured up in mytho-
logies; often repeated ; and honoured by some with the appellation of
u the poetry of the skies."-Poetry of the skies! Some trivial matters
that deserved not to be remembered for a moment, have here eter-
nized/-Every presuming fool and half-witted flatterer who pleased, has
been permitted to " touch with his ·partisan," these celestial matters.
Who should have cared about Areas and Calisto; or the
sceptre; or the·Fox and Goose?-Sciencemight blush for this. The truths
of Astronomy, are of all truths the most lasting and sublime. "We do
it wrong-being so majestical, to -offer it the shew of.-levity.''
Digitized byGoogle
. I
.ESSAYVII. TQTHE RT.HON.i!\RLSPENCER,K.G.F.R.S.&F.S.A.TRUS-
TEEOFTHEBRIT.MUS.PRES.OFTHEROYALINSTITUTION,8tt.l!tc.&c.
MY LoRD-IT bad been scarct>ly pardonable in me to have let pass
the present opportunity of dedicating part at least of my Sabman
searches, to a Nobleman so distinguished as Earl Spencer for his love of
the Sciences and Fine Arts; and for the deep interest he has taken in
what respects the antiquities of art, literature, and science.
As your Lordship so honourably presides over that Royal Institution
for whose meridian the present paper was calculated, I have fancied that
you would be quite as well pleased to see it in its original shape of a
Lecture-or perhaps better pleased, than ifI had attempted to re-cast its
substance in a more epistolary form.-Retaining this its original shape, I
therefore simply do myself the honour of inscribing it with the respected
name of your Lordship, while I shew those who did metbe pleasure of
attending in the Lecture-room, what I bad prepared for them, had it con·
Digitized by Coogle
210
sisted with the arrangements of the last season, for me to have delivered
another Discourse.
FRoM certain questions which have been put to me, with reference to the
manner in which these Lectures have been announced, I am led to per-
ceive that more has been expected-more diversity perhaps -at least by
some of my auditors-than has been exhibited, concerning HIEROGLY-
PHICs-a term compounded of two Greek words denoting sacred, and
on stone; and more especially concerning those Hieroglyphics which
every body has seen; of which our Egyptian travellers have brought
home so many; and which ·a11 of us so naturally wish to be able to
· decypher.
But, fair and softly, my friends. No rapid advances can be made in
this direction : The obstacJes are too many ; and there is no royal road.
The public curiosity-the wish to lift these veils of awful wonder-is
not less laudable than strong: but it can only be by dint
of gradual care and persevering circumspection. My prospectus may
have been too promising; or too comprehensive. Egypt has been men-
tioned in it; and as Egypt is the country of all others, where hierogly-
phical ioscriptious abound, I willingly allowed my thoughts to turn from
the constellated Husbandman of Chaldea, to his foreign counterpart or
representative, the Osiris of Egypt-which may he figuratively termed the
.A.lep/1 of the sacred characters of that ancient and mysterious country.
Of the discourse of this morning, I mean to devote the earlier part to an
investigation and disclosure of the meaning and use of the Aleph of the
star-worshipping nations-speaking of them collectively: In other words,
to a revelation ofthe leading astra] and conventional sign ofthe commence-
ment of the annually revolving seasons, and of the ancient astronomical
cycles, and its corresponding hieroglyphical : to be followed in
my next Lecture with a detailed account and exhibition of one of that
species of Sabrean signet, distinct from the horoscopical signets of indi-
viduals, and intimately connected with those revolving seasons, which has
been already alluded to [in my 4th Essay], and with which my present
Digitized byGoogle
211
course must close: affording-as far as Time has permitted me to pro-
ceed-what ·I may perhaps be·.·allowed to ·term a·systematic, or coriela-
·tive, view·of the elements· of my subject, and a taste of its creain v:a-
·riously· flavoured: By ·which I mean that I shall ·have ·produced-·with
examples ofthe Sabrean· explanations of the two distinct
·kinds which ·I have·traced ; one· being·of Babylon· and horoscopical·;
and the other from·the land of· Canaan, and·referring to ·an annual Solar
festival.-! shall have exhibited also, as far as my means
portunity furnish-explanations of the leading hieroglyphics of Sabrean-
-ism in general, and of Egypt in particular; and thus·(to· the best of my
ability)'-shall ·have·redeemed·my pledge; by:having treated of " the hiero-
-glyphics of Cluddea, EK!Jpt, and Canaan." ·.
By the Aleph of the Sabrean in general, I mean that primordial
·and frequentlyrecurring, crescent and disc, ofwhich I have already spoken,
but I think not sufficiently; which: appeared ·nrst (or in the oldestimonil-
'ments) on the forehead of tbe celestial Taurus; at ·subsequent periods
his· neck, and back ;- and finally betweei:t'the horns of Aries. ·
I am far from meaning that the Sabrean·bulls, with the discs over their
.foreheads, all belong to the remote era when .the year opened with :the
·heiiacal .rising of the .stars of Taurus;• What I ·meant to ·affirm in a
Lecture, ·was that the oldest·sculpttired monuments that are now
extant, do not carry us further back into the depths of time : or, ·in other
.words, we have yet met with no antiques where the celestial·Twins,ar.
e
·accompanied by this symbol of a commencing or by aliy'·thiog
'else which can be construed to bear a similar meaning;
.. ·A repetition of this ·symbolical meaning, may not be useless in the way
of defining and fixing it clearly in our memory. · The crescent ·and disc,
when combined as above, always means the conjunctive Sun and Moon;
and when placed on the ·head of the zodiacal Bull, means the commence-
·merit. of the cycle termed Saros·by the Chaldeans; ·by the Greeks, Meto-
•nic; and supposed to be alhided ·to in the Hebrew or Arabian (scriptural)
. .
* It is known that some of these orb and crescent crowned Tauri, are of subsequent date,
aad belong to a fictitious mode of estimating tbe commencement of the year according to a
tyatem which tilted stan to have moved.
2c
Digitized byGoogle
-ph1'88e "Mazzaroth in its seasoo;"-that ia to aay, the first new Mooa,
cad new Son, of the year. Occ•ioually-ence iB eighteen yean ad a
.fractioo, retpectiog which astronomers are not exactly agreed-these are
precisely coincident, and are always assumed to be so, when thus exbi-
:bited on the forehead of Taurus, for the sake of·apparent preeisioft.-tbe
.diWerences when they are otherwise, being made up by ioterca:JMion; socb
exhibitions haviag been deemed Dea&sary to the equation of selar, with
·lunar, time.
The next astronomical eeulpture of the same 'letMIMg character when
thus accompanied by the lunar cresaet and diac-Tbat whieh sqceeeQed
-the Bull, when it had becoae incontatably evident to all observers that
the equinoctial colore no longer intersected tbe siga Taurws-is that of
B&Al-AmPlOD; 10 termed in the scripture& :-Cbe Jupiter-Ammon of the
Greeks: but whetber called more than simply AIDI&Ooo among the .Egyp-
·tiaos,• where the ram-headed aDd orb-crowned figures most abound, 1
believe is not positively known: neither does this greatly signify : The
thing, without the word, which we have ; is far more satisfactory tbao
·wooJd be the word without the thing.
But perhaps I should rather have written that such figures of Ammon
·are known to be extant: however, when this sentiment of our po1861sifW
examples of the orb-crested Ram, presented itself to my mind, I made it
my busioess (that I might neither incur your blame nor my own) to apply
again fur admission to the small Egyptian-room at the British Museam,
·which is rich in bronzes, and other of the smaller scuJptures of that in-
teresting country: but aufortunately for my present pursuit, it is still
closed, and is likely t4 remain so (as I am given to understand) for a
.period, the duration of which is too uncertaio to be longer waited for.
On the tarcophagus of Alexander, however-or that precious and
·derml work which bas been so termed-the zodiacal Ram appears-
·{his bead surmounted by the solar orb); the astronomical era of whose
·reign as a leading sign, agrees in time with the age of the MacedQnian
conqueror, and with the circumstance of his visit to the Lybian oracle
·of Ammon. ·
• "The call Jupiter, A•UIIOr.aa/"-Beloe'• Her«Wtru,
Digitized byGoogle
. .
I shall now beg to recall your attention, as impressively ·as I may be
able, to this important and frequently recurring symbol, as attached to
the antique Rams and :Bulls of the Sabman astronomy ; among other
reasons-but chiefly-because in all retrospective chronological calcu-
lations, I conceive it to mark a cardinal point; l say a cardinal point;
literally and emphatically so, because the points of intersection of the sol-
stitial and equinoctial colures, were anciently termed (by Manitius· and
other classical writers on astronomy) the Aingu ot Heaven. Since no
man has yet been able to read .the minor hieroglyphics of .Egypt, let
ug with the greater solicitude, ascertain and secure if we can, these
cardinal points.
Inferences may sometimes be safely drawn from what is not, as well as
from what is. As on the one hand the zodiacal Twins are nt"Ver found
with this significant accompaniment; so neither, on the other, are the
zodiacal Fishes discovered to have been thus honoured, in .Egypt, or in ·
any other country : the reason or which is obvious, when we reflect that
.Egypt had passed under a foreign yoke, before the colore of the vernal
equinox bad removed to the sign Pisces. I entertain little doubt, that
had the primitive government, and primitive sacred institutions, of .Egypt;
remained undisturbed, we should in like manner have beheld shrines,
statues, and temples, erected to those holy Fishes whom the Solar God
honoured with his presence at the commencement of the year, and of one
of the sacred cycles of the Egyptian superstition : for I apprehend that
the hieroglyphics which adorned their earlier religious edifices, were all
eonnected by the same system of Astronomy.
· This state of things was intercepted (as I conceive), if not by Persia, by
the Macedonian conquest: and it appears to me as iffrom that era,and dur-
ing the reigns of the Ptolemies, the .Egyptian astronomers had felt the ne-
cessity of compromising some of their more ancient usages regarding the
promulgation of the public calendar, in compliance with the prevailing
customs of their Grecian masters, which were to reckon from the first
new Moon after the Sun's arrival at the Summer solstice, or by that po-
pular zodiac according to which the Bull ushered in the new year. I do
not mean here that the Egyptians had absolutely changed their own modes
2c2
Digitized byGoogle
II
f.
214
of time, .but that they felt themselves obliged to .admit and
promulgate the Macedonian modes also. :
I apprehend that the Babylonian &l)d Persepolitan Tauri and Minotauri.
ar.e aiJ genuine: that is to say-they really belonged to the ancient
period of Taurine splendour; but that a large proportion (perhaps) o(
those sacred Bulls of Egypt which have descended to us, and which are,
adorned with the crescent and disc, are modern ; by which
I mean that they belonged to those ages when the Ptolemies reigned,
there, and when the sacred Bulls of Greece-such as those two of
in Mr. Payne Knight's cabinet, and those two others in the ,British.
Museum-are found to be either adorned in the same manner; or have a
hole pierced in the backs of their heads, for the occasional reception
of the symbols before menti_
oned-one or both of .as.
Solar and Lunar time was, or was not, concurrent, and the Sun and Moon
conjunctive. . .
. And here I cannot pass without notice; yet that notice shall
strict reference to the hieroglyphic .before us.-the oblong zodiac of
Dendera, where it is displayed in a very conspicuous and remarkable
manner. . .
This monument, and another containing also a zodiac, from the same
which bas lately been added to the antiquarian riches possessed
by .the city of Paris, have engaged the attention, and called forth the
and modifications of critical acumen which they severalli
possess, of Fourrier. Denon, and other of those French savans who do
themselves so much honour by their devotion to art, science, and antiquity;
an.d in our country, have excited those of the Rev. Mr. Henley,
Mr. Mr. Bankes, and more recently ofSir William Drummond;
and will, in all probability, continue to be the subject of antiquarian
for some time to come; for others, as I hear, are now busily.
employed in critical investigation of these antiques: and doubtless
there remains a great deal to discuss and discover, both in this oblong'
zodiac, and in the circular planisphere which is alluded to above, and
wbi.ch .was sculptured on the ceiling of an .upper apartment of the same
temple.
Digitized byGoogle
215
... The upward of 16,000 years of duration, which the French philoso-
phers were at first disposed to claim for this zodiac, have been ably and
firmly .refused by the.antiquarian critics of our own country ; and first I
believe by Henley; who brought M. Fourrier and his.followers, to the
dilemma of giving up their remote.date, or of proving that .tS,OOO years
before Christ, was the happiest (or most flourishing) period of the arts
and .sciences. I suppose this very ancient date is now entirely aban-
doned. .. ,·
.. But yet Mr. Henley's own essay is .a curious tissue of ingenuity and
error-:-of learning and credulity. His mode of research consists by far
too .much of counting. He would enumerate almost every visible touch
of_ the. sculptor's chisel. He sees mystic.design .or .moral intention in
petty detail-even the most minute.. He is like a musical anti-
quary, who, finding the fiddle-stick's-end o( some great performer of yore,
wou,ld deduce the melodies of his music, from ·the number of horse:.bairs
it might be found to contain. Many of his observations notwithstanding,
take a very learned character ; and his reasons for assigning the zodiac of
Dendera to the comparatively recent period .of the Augustan age,. are
ofsome force: plausible, though not conclusive-However, 1don't mean
here to unroll a volume, nor to follow these scholars much further at
present, than concerns the.sign Taurus, with his symbolical crest.
..It was on .account of this Bull that .I introduced the mention of.the
Denderaniau .zodiac, where we find him sculptured in .the attitude of
attack, and supporting on his .shoulders .the symbolical crescent and
; reHpecting which it appears to me that Mr. Heriley is egregiously
wrong, both in his.interpretation of tbe.hieroglyphic, .and in the astronomy
upon .which that interpretation would claim to be founded. He says,
then (by certain discriminations.which be has previously
been. detailing), " the. of the year, from the rise qf Taurus attAe
aetting qftAe Dog-star, whick is ezemplified by tile. solat· circle in a cres-
cent on tile Bulfs neck, it will be seen"•-and so forth.
* " Observations on the Zodiac at by tbe Rev. Sam. Henley, F. S. A." in Dr.
TiUoch'1 Philo1. Mag. vol. 14.
Digitized byGoogle
Now thia abort passage coatains two propositi"ni, both of which are
ifnot obviouMly; Wha* can '4 the Solar
in a crescent" have to do with the Dog-star? And how should Taurna
rise at Dendera, or in any latitude of Egypt, at the setting of this star?
Mr. llenll"y could never have referred to his globe :-but the 7MfiUJ'Y of
every tulronOJIIer, will tell him without such r-eference, that the meridian
of Sirius passes through the middle degrees of Gemini ; an<l that conse-
quently, when Taurus rises, the Dog-star is about 35° below the Eastern
horizoR. His exemplification then must necessarily fail, when his fact is
"The solar circle in a crescent'' can have no such reference to the
as Henley is pleased to state: and I am tbe more surprised
at this error, as, two pages onward-treating of the celebrated sardonyx
of the emperor Augustus, and alluding to the emperor's signet-be says,
"The sign Capricorn is here placed in a circle, with tlze Dog-star beAi"Ad,"
which should have led this learned scholar to reflect, or perceive, that, the
rising of the Dog-star is simultaneous with the setting of the stars of
Capricorn. ,
As before stated, I conceive this slowly removable crescent and disc-
sometimes exhibited on the head of Taurus, with AldebarAn and the
Hyades; sometimes on his neck, or with the Pleiades ; further back still
in this asterism as it presents itself in the zodiac of Esnb; and sometimes
with the triangle of bright stars in the head of Aries-to be of first rate
importance ; especially in ascertaining and fixing the epochas of remote
events. I conceive it to be ofinfinitely more value in this view, than a thou-
sand minor bieroglyphical df!tails. It behoves us therefore; if possible,
ita true meaning nQlongerqgestiona.ble; and to examine whether
there be. data to eoable us to distinguish between the Tauri of the first
ages, the real state of the celestial phenomena was not subject to
a¥tronamical s()phistications ; and that subsequent period, wben the fixed
stars wer-e fabled to .hav.e moved, in order t& accommodate to
vulgar prejudice and tbe common calendars.
And this brings me to tbe observations on tbis subject, of Sir William
Drummond-or rather to the omission of observatioa, of a learned and
exploring scholar and critic, who rarely omits or overlooks any thing be-
Digitized byGoogle
!17
toogiog to his subject. Sir William says, that, in order to \mGg Mt.
Hamilton's (and be might have added Mr. Henley's, calcttlations-whicb
I believe preceded those of Mr. Hamilton in lowering the elaiin of the
French antiquaries) but,-·"in order.to bring Mr. Hatoilton's calculations
to bear, it must be shewn that the zodiac of Dendera was colisttucted by
astronomers who reckoned according to the fixed zodiac of the Greeks.
Now every thing in the zodiac of Dendera seems to prove thatit owed its
existence to the natives of the soil. E'fery thing in it is .EgyptiaB-
Egyptian astronomy-Egyptian mythology-Egyptian symbols-Egyp-
tian taste, style, and manner."*
Internal evidence, as the learned writer says, must decide the
yet internal evidence does not impress every one with the same convictions,
and concerning that afforded by the Denderanian monument, I eannot
have the honour of agreeing with Sir William. I, on the contnrt, eon-
tend, that the zodiac is not of the pure and primitive art and science of
Egypt, though I allow that the taste and style of that country do cer-
tainly appear to predominate: and the admixture or infusion of Grecian
art, is no where else in this zodiac so manifest as in the sign Taurust SW'·
mounted by his symbolical crescent and disc.
But I think it is rather the partial adoption by the Greeks, of" Egyptian
astronomy ; Egyptian mythology; Egyptian symbols; Egyptian taste,
style, and manner," that we here perceive; and that it is this Greek
modification of .Egyptian art and science-of the studied refinement of
which mixture, both the style of design and that of the execution of the
present monument partaketi-which bas led the earlier .French critics of
the present age, to the remote inference that the happiest period of .Egyp-
tian art, was 16,000 years ago!
All the pure, primitive, and indigenous, Egyptian sculptilre, is
sessed by a certain decided character of calm solemnity, whieh is very
impressive in suggesting ideas of Deity, beeau8e it expresses POWER
• Memoir on the Antiquity of the Zodiacs of Eane and p. 69.
t But some tinge of it may alao be eeen in Aries. Compare the leaping Ram of Dendera,
with the generality of the quiac:ent Rams of Egyptian sculpture. I'say nothing of the leap·
ing Sagittarius, becauae I do not recolltct any thing of the kind that ia unqueationabl1 and
purely Egyptian, to compare him with, ia a fresh argument in favour of my poeition.
Digitized byGoogle
tiS
tt1illunll PAI&IOM. Now the attitude, character, and expression, of the-
Bull in queltiou, are quite dissonant from this.serenity. : lie seemsabout
to 'aet forth on an active, vigorous, and triumphant career.
The submission of the Greeks and Romans to the Egyptians, in what
concerned the sciences of astronomy and mythology, and the !:Jtyle of reli-
gious architeCture .which had in .Egypt been derived from those sciences,
and had grown with their growth, will (I think) be obvious on a little refiee-
tion. For the whole time that the classical nations were in political p()s-
session of that intere8ting country, they appear to have exercised but a
conciliating control in any other than military and municipal matters, and
to have been so far from dictating, in what coacerned the truths ofscience
or tlie·dogmata of faith, that they evidently ·chose, or were, from pruden-
tial motives, constrained, to recognize and follow, what they found·esta-
blished-perhaps without comprehending its essence, or fathoming its
depth ; yielding to the pontifical authoritit'S of that ancient land, the
sallie species of deference that the· modern catholics of the rest of Eu-
rope, pay to the mother church'of Rome. · They erected there no Greek
nor Roman or we should have found-their ruins, at least:
but if they built at all (whieh they certainly ·did), re-edified .the more an-
cient temples of Egypt, with so much of strict adherence to the original
de8igns·; or constructed others so much iri the same style, that modem
antiquarieS have been fairly puzzled by them. · Nothing bas more baffled
the aims or the accuracy- of ·their speeulations: nor laid.open a wider
space of hypothetical ·latitude; nor led to more suspicious-not to
t-rroneous, conClusions.• ·
· The question now is, whether some few of the local peculiarities of
Greece, be not nevertheless discoverabfe.;,_peeping out here and. there
among the minor details of these sculptures, and most .likely in those
passages which:are derived from,' or are connected with, the systems of
Jurisprudence by which ·the country was governed while subject to the
Greeks and Romans?
Affirmatively, I am of this opinion. And these local peculiarities
appear to me to have reached to the Grecian modes of.reckoning time;
wherein it probably became necessary, from arising out of
commercial intercourse and mutual convenience, that the native Egyptians.
Digitized byGoogle
219:
should, in all .civil transactions,. conform to the usages o( their con-
querors.,......-with an understood astronomical and religious .reservatiori,1
probably, in favour of their own Sothic periods.and their sidereal year.-
Would the busts of Isis, which-distinguish her Denderanian temple, have
had the ears ofa cow; but in order to accommodate her simulacra to the
legends .of Greek fable? The purely Egyptian statues of the goddess:
have.not this remarkable feature. 1\.gain, where else in Egypt,
at Esoe, do we meet with the sculptured.Ce.ntaur? or the Crab? · The
Crab.is a remarkable.peculiarity of the circular ceiling.
Of.this Greco-Egyptian. style (if the expression be not too strong) of
sculpture and architecture, the temple .of Isis, at: Dendera, affords·
perhaps the most illustrious and example that is now. extant.
Itstruck Denon and Belzoni-and I believe it has struck all travellers,
who .have had the honour and happiness of beholding it-as possessing
a more refined and cabinet-like charactPr, than any other of the Egyptian
temples, and its sculptures as retaining more of their original freshness '
and finish. Belzoni says " It is the first Egyptian temple the traveller
sees.on ascending the Nile, and, it is certainly the most magnificent. It
has an advantage over most others, from the good slate. ofpreset-vation il·
is ;,; and I slwuld have no scruple in Sa!Jing' that it is ofa much later dtite
than. any other. The superiority of workmanship gives us sufficient
reason to suppose it to be of the.time of the first Ptolemy;* and it is not
improbable that he who laid the foundation of the Alexandrian library;
instituted the philosophical society of the Museum; and studied to ren-
der himself beloved by his people, might erect such edifice to con-
vince the Egyptians of his superiority of mind over the ancient kings of
Egypt, even in religious devotion. This is the cabinet of the Egyptian
arts; the product of study for many centuries; and it was here that
Deooo thought himself in the sanctuary of the arts and sciences."t
* I believe the author means, not Ptolemy Soter, but Ptolemy Philatklphw, who was pro-
perly the .recond of that race and name. But to have erectt!d such an edifice as this superb
temple, would be at least equally consi1tent with the character and opportunities of the third
Ptolemy, who--doubtleBB for ostensible reasons-assumed the cognomen of "the Benifactor."
t ·" Researches and Operations iri Egypt, Nubia, &c."· pp. 88, 4. But Denon, with his fine
nio of enthusiutic feeling, blending the artist with the philosopher, had previoualy written,.
2D
Digitized by Google
ftO:
Such is the opinion formed by a man, who if not deeply versed 1b at).,
<;ient history, bas left a pyramid to prove his capacity and talent for anti-·
quarian observation. Such is the testimony of the most recent of .Egyp--
tian travellers. If we now turn back to the most ancient (of those who
.have written and published their travels), and who went over the ground.
about a century befure the Macedonian conquest, we find-fW notice at
4ll of Tent!Jris [Dendera] ad its 8UJ1erb temple-a most remarkable si-
lence indeed!-Herodotus (in his valuable .Euterpe), mentions the names
of the chief Egyptian cities that he visited; dwells with just praise on the
1Vonders of the national architecture, and with becoming piety on their
chief deities, and the places where those deities were worshipped ; and
says be journeyed up the Nile to .Elephantine, for the express purpose of
IJ)aking observations. Is it probable-is it conceivable-that he would
have omitted aU notice of a structure so vast, so venerated ; so elaborate
ia its parts, so wonderful as a whole-and so celebrated too, as most
have been the Isiac temple of Tentyris, bad it been in existence at tbe
time? Surely such a travelJer as Herodotus, could not have left unvi-
sited, nor undescribed, the principal temple of the chiefdeity of the most
interesting country in the world.
The Greeks and Romans, then, if I have taken the true view of tbis
period of history, beside being actuated by that habitual policy which
indu.ced them to accommodate themselves as much as possible to the
manners and customs of the nations which they subjugated-appear to
have looked upon the Egyptians as having been their masters in the
sciences. Perhaps they continued to the last to experience a kind .of
"I went to the ruina, and this time (his returning 11isit] took possesaion of them in the pleni-
tude of repose. I was first of all delighted to find that my enthusiastic admiration of the great
temple, waa not an illusion produced by the novelty of its appearance; since, after having seen
all the other EgyptiaD monument&, still appeared the most perfect in ita execution, ana
constructed at the happiest period of the arts and sciences : E,·ery thing in it is laboured, ia
interesting, ia important. It would be necessary to draw the whole in its most minute detaile,
to posses11 ounelves of all thal ia worth carrying away." The verbal accounts of the Baron
l>enon and Belzoni, are confirmed by the engravings of this temple which the former has ex-
hibited in his interesting book of Egyptian travela,which aa I have great pleasure in hearing, is
•ho.-tly to be completed.
Digitized byGoogle
121
involuntary or pupillage, and might wish In ·vain 'that the cas'e
were otherwise. Their national vanity was here held in check by the
curb of science-at once gentle and omnipotent. They felt, though they
might not acknowledge, the influence of power without passion. They
wight aspire to prance and to curvet, but were compelled to walk humbly;
and as in the presence of venerated superiors.
. And this mental submission was of yore, and appears to have become
acknowledged and habitual : for, from one of those venerated superiors,
Solon learned and reported that "his own countrymen were always
children: mere novices in the sciences of antiquity." And he seemingly
$Cquiesced in the sentiment. This was before the mad invasion of Cam-
byses. And Sir William Drummond himself quotes Herodotus, in proof
that when he visited the Egyptians, notwithstanding they were oppressed
by Persia, " they were much more skilful astronomers than his own coun-
trymen." We now return to the sculptures.
As before observed-the Taurus of the Denderanian zodiac is so far
from being in harmony with the characteristic calmness of the indigenous
art of Egypt, that he appears about to set forth on an active, vigorous,
and triumphant career. And why so?-
We find many of the more ancient coins of Greece and Phcenicia, bear-
ing an impress exactly corresponding with this hutting Bull of the zodiac
of Dendera. Did the Phmnicians and Greeks copy it from the Egyptian
zodiac? I have ventured to offer some reasons why I conceive that this
zodiac was not in existence when the earliest <>f these coins were struck.
I think this BuJl originated with the Phrenicius, aud being a pertinent
emblem, was soon adopted by the Greeks.
A pertinent emblem of what?-Permit me to answer that question.
IfI can render probable its Phrenician origin, the idea of its m-iginating
with the Egyptians, must in the same degree abate of its claims.
We know that the ancient kings of Tyre, and those of Damascua,
affected to be either descendants, or vicegerents, of the great Lord of their
idolatry, the Sun; or that they wished their subjects to consider them-
upon some political principle or likely that of insuring reve-
rent obedience)-as so many sublunary Suns: and hence they called
2E2
Digitized byGoogle
2!!
themselves AtA-Ba4ls, and BetJ-A.dada; which literally means, sip·ot
· the Sun ; and sons of the Sun.
The Ben-Adads·of Damascus flourished several centuries before the
invention of coining; but the Tyrian Baals continued I believe to a·later
period. But why should this doubt disturb our argument? It is scarcely
worthy of a moment's pause. The successors of Alexander, the Seleu.;
cidre, we know adopted the Taurine symbol on their coinage, in numerous
instances. I have introduced the reverse of one ofthese coins in the head-
piece·to the present essay. The monarchs ·Of the East, both before, and
since, the ingenious adaptation of the art of engraving to the purposes of
kings and ofcommerce, have shewn themselves ambitious ofthis lofty solar
title; and it is natural to expect that, when•these earthly Suns ascended,
and began to shine forth from; their respeCtive thrones, they would adopt
such devices ·for the reverses of their coins, as should contribute to up-
bold and disseminate their lofty assumptions, and as the radiant orb .of
day commenced his glorious annual career, ·according to the popular
calendar, or the belief of the multitude,-from the stars of Taurus, what
other device could be so impressively pertinent, as the reanimated sacred
Taurus himself, setting forth on his active, vigorous, heavenly, and
triumpha'nt career?
That.the Greeks·might abstract this Bull from his zodiacal station and
character, ·and convert him on their coinage, simply to a poetic symbol,
I shall not ·controvert. Yet, notwithstanding they did so, we re:md that
down to the age of Virgil at least, the classical year commenced in the
popular belief, with the first new Moon of Taurus-
When the third night she rises to her sphere,
And with his horns the Bull rmbars the ytar;
or, as the symbol has sometimes been interpreted-annually breaks the
.shell of the Mundane, or Orphic, egg, ·in order to give life and liberty to
·its vernal produce-But this I have before.cited.
Should these ideas of mine be firmly founded, the general inference I
would here draw from them is, that whenever in the sculptured monu-
.ments of Egypt, the Bull occurs in this violent action, such sculptureJs
Digitized byGoogle
probably not of,earlier date than the ·Macedonian conquest; atid be
of adate as recent as that which the Rev. Mr. Henley assigns ·to the
zodiac of Dendera-which is precisely the age of Virgil. And I think
the symbolical disc was probably placed in the middle of the Taurus of
this zodiac of Deodera, in order to alford a starting pOint of occasional
facility, in reckoning according to the more ancient zodiac-so that by
means of the same zodiac, the annual march of time and the seasons,
might be estimated both ways : either as above, or according to another
Grecian mode, of which I shall presently treat more at large, which sup-
posed the year to commence at the Summer solstice. Meanwhile the
.Egyptians, as I conceive, reckoned their own Sothic time by the circular
zodiac of the small apartment.
Quitting this branch of our inquiry for the present, and looking again,
as We may now with improved mental ViHiOn, toward the root, we cannot
but be struck with the manifest primitive meaning and importance of the
symbolical crescent and disc when connected with the precession of the
equinoxes. In all ancient astronomical monuments, it is-to the initiated
-the indez of that precession. It might be termed the slowly moving
Centu1y hand of that immense and magnificent dial, which Providence
has "divinely bestowed upon mao," in order to sustain and satisfy his
desire of knowledge with regard to the larger divisions of time.-1 dwell
upon it, because of its cardinal-its invaluable-chronological impor-
tance.-At the rate of 72 years to an astronomical degree (avoiding mi-
nute fractions) we trace, in sculptured monuments, its regular move-
ment for upwards of 6,000 years,• through three signs of the zodiac, and
from the antediluvian ages to the present.- What can be more interesting?
·What in the progress of time can be wore sublime? What can merit
better our sedulous attention, that human error may not frustrate the
benevolent intentions of Providence in allowing us to earn by scientific
exertion, so much grandeur of speculative feeling-such highly probablE"
and distinct evidence of remote chronological truth.
I shall next endeavour to shew that, as far as we are yet a<'quainted
• I mean that it it that length of time •ioce tbe •ymbol began to be wed in utronomical
acu1ptorn. I have before Aid that we do not &DJI Pisces adorned wit!J the lunar c:reacent and
orb, and bue ttated the probable rtuon wby.
Digitized byGoogle
I
"
,.
,.
' .
I'
,,
I •
.j
1
I I
with the details of the monuments of Upper Nile, they go to confirm the,
astronomical origin and mea11iog of the crescent and disc; while they
throw light on that other position which I have laid down in a former
discourse-namely, that 1Ethiopia, if not the birth-place of Astronomy
itself, is at least the parent of the astronomy of Egypt, and perhaps also
of that of Chaldea and Greece. I shall now add, that· by means of our
chronological precession dial, the progress both of the symbol and of the
science may be traced; in order to shew which, it will be proper for us to.
advert to the latest and best information that has been obtained from
those remote countries. In effecting this advertence, if I for the
sake of recalling idt'a8 which may be wanted, occasionally ramble into
something approaching to repetition, I shall hope for your indulgence.
Two .English gentlemen have lately penetrated to 1Ethiopia, and have
favoured the public with an account of their travels ; but the cautious
policy of the native princes did not permit them· to proceed further to the
southward than lat. ta•. 20'. N.; and notwithstanding they re-discovered
the ancient city of Napata, which in importance is second only to Saba
itself; and although they visited several other scenes of ruined .£thiopian
architecture-Axum, and the ancient ..&:thiopian metropolis of Saba, or
Meroe, they were obliged to leave unvisited. Future travellers howeve-.:
will be grateful for what they have done, and the public will be
with their candour, their enterprise, and their taste.
Though they have not dispelled our doubts as to whether the original
seat of astronomy was situated to the eastward or westward of the Ara-
gulph, they have done something towards it. The most ancient of
sculptured monuments which they saw in ..tEthiopia, did not reach
back to the remote era when the Sabman year opened with the stars in
the head of Taurus; a presumption is therefore still left in favour of
the Oriental 1Ethiopia, and we are le.d to hope that astronomical monu·
ments of a more remote date than those of Napata and El-Belal, may yet
remain-and remain in the Arabian peninsula-to reward the researches
of future travellers.
It may not be improper to re-state here, that I conceive the Etbiopias
to have been originally divided-not as some have supposed, by the
southern course of the Nile, but by the Red Sea; and n1y further suppo-
Digitized byGoogle
.ltion is, that in the south of the Arabian peninsula, where dwelt the
very ancient Homerites (or Cushites) may lie buried many important
monuments of the science whicll adorned the early ages of the world.-
In Beloe's additions to the Melpomene of Herodotus, I find that "the
name of Ammon was very well known in Arabia," and that "some
remains of a temple of Jupiter Ammon are still to be seen there, if' the
travellers to Mecca may be bE"Iieved"-(and on such a point why should
they not?) " The place is called Hesack-bir." This however does not
prove more than that the Mythology and Astronomy of Nubia and Lybia,
reaehed to the Arabian peninsula.
But I shall be expected to state why I speak with so much assurance
of the era of the oldest .lEthiopian monuments visited by our enterprising
countrymen. To explain this, it will be necessary to step forward a
little, and not improper to enter a distinction which may tend to kE'ep us
clear of.future confusion.
The classical astronomers appear, as I have before indicated, (in con-
sequence of the precession of the equinoxes, the knowledge of which had
been imparted to Pherecydes and Tbales, by the astronomers of .Egypt
or those of Asia)-to have fabled that the stars advaneE'd in longitade.
Perhaps they did this-as perhaps might be done in other countries-in
deference to certain vulgar superstitions concerning the accredited celes-
tial signs ofthe seasons. To fabJe the removal ofthe Bull, they mightfind
a less difficulty than to explain the precession.-Whatever·the reason-
they feigned that the stars of Taurus, which for twenty-one centuries had
been the leading stars ofevery new year, had removed into the dodecate-
morion of Aries; those of Aries into that of Pisces, and so on round the
circle of the zodiac. That the Greeks did this, in reckoning their Solar
year,• is evident from several circumstances, but particularly from the num-
ber now extant of those sacred Bulls ofbronze, ofwhich I treated in a for-
mer discourse, where a hole is left on the top ofthe bead, for the insertion,
by means of a metal peg, of the disc and crescent, tbe symbols of the
Sun and Moon-either or both of them, as astronomical
• It is known that the Greeks commonly reckoned by lunar time, beginning their year with
the fiht Moon after the Summer Solstice; but, as is atated in the Archcologia they had
also a Solar year commencing with the Spring. Lib. ii. cap.IO.
Digitized byGoogle
226
might the returning season of the vernal equinox. And that.
this custom of occasionally inserting the disc and crescent on the bead of.
Taurus at the vernal season, continued among the classical astronomers
-those of.Rome as well as those of Greece, down to the Augustan age,
is equally clear from the stanza of Virgil, which I have before quoted.
These aHtronomers knew very well that the solar year, during the period
when most of them lived, commenced with the heliacal rising of the
of Aries; but they chose to feign that Taurus was still the leading sign of.
the zodiac; just as, in our popular astronomy of the present day; .we
begin our enumeration of the zodiacal constellations with that of
although more than 2000 years have roJled away since Aries was really
the first of the signs.
Did the Egyptians do the same? I think not, of themselves; nor
while subject to the ·Persian dominion; nor probably tiJI after the inva-
sion of Alexander. Yet some uncertainty must, for the present, attend.
on.the answer to this question.
All the nomes of Egypt do not appear to have been subject to the
same reJigiom1 observances ; and hence, perhaps, oue cause of variation in
the promulgation of theirfasti and calendars. Esne is said to have been
sacred to Ammon, the Ram-beaded (or Ram-horned) god: while at Den-
dera, whose great temple was dedicated to Isis (or Nature), the Bull
might be held. to: be more holy. Meanwhile, the of Dendera.
shew that the Egyptian astronomers of that period were well informed
of more than one mode of estimating time, and perhaps were competent,.
and. habituated, as political or religious occasions might require, to.
reckon by more than two.
At Sais too the celestial Bull appears to have been treated with sacred.
ceremonies, from the era of. the pristine order of the zodiac, down to, at
least the time of Herodotus, as we may gather from the legend which.
he has placed upon record, concerning the Bull of Mycerinus.
The priests of Sais, with their habitual anxiety, as we may suppose, to
conceal their mysteries from strangers, told of this bull or hE'ifer, a cock.
and a bull story, (which even Herodotus, who has been thought suffi-
ciently ·credulous, could not believe),-kow that king Mycerinus, falling
in love with his own daughter, ravished or seduced her, and after bel":
Digitized byGoogle
227
death, entombed her in the statue of a Bull, which was shewn to the
Grecian traveller.
The truth which peers through the veil of this singular legend, which
at the first was probably no more than an astrological reverie-seems·
to be as follows. The hinder part of the exhibited Bull, (which, we are
told, represented a young animal about the size of nature)-was covered
with a purple doth ; the head and neck being uncovered and richly gilt.
Betwixt the horns was a gol.den star, which I interpret to be intended
for AldebarAn. It was splendidly illumined by night, and costly aro-
matics were burned before it by day. This shews the religious venera-
tion in which the statue was held. .Every year it was brought forth from
its superb ball and placed in tAe San-s/line.• No type of the entrance of
the Solar deity into the sign Taurus, could be more expressive, or convey
this latent meaning less equiYocally. Now as Mycerinus lived during the
Taurine ages, been the son of that Cheops who erected the first of
the pyramids; and as the ceremony of annually bringing forth the Bull
into the solar radiance, as well as the oblations which were diurnally
otfE'red at his shrine, continued down to the age of Herodotus (and how
much later I believe is not known), it would appear that the .Egyptian
priesthood conceded, in this insta11ce at least, their better astronomical
knowledge, to the long confirmed superstitious prejudices of the vulgar.
Without affecting to strike a balance here, .or to write as if all the
nomes of Egypt were subject to the same system of sacred observances
in· all its details, we may he allowed to torn our regards toward the
astronomy of .lEthiopia and Chaldea. However the case may have been
in some parts of Egypt, I see no reason to suppose that in either of these
countries, any such fictitious advancement of the stars into the neigh-
bouring dodecateruoria, was had recourse to, as that which is here under
our notice. I think that the astronomers of these countries were well
acquainted with the precession of the equinoxes, and sincere enough in
their religious rites and their public monuments, not to dissemble the
• There is another story, equally 6U&ceptible of astrological explication, of this unfortunate
Princesa and bull, ending with her dying request that she might once a year behold the Sun.
-See Euterpe, cxxix, &c.
2E
Digitized byGoogle
and that accordingly when the colore of the vernal equinox
had evidently removed from Taurus into Aries, new rites, or new modifi-
cations of their more ancient rites, were established; and of such impor-
tance does this ttppear to have been, that-in £tbiopia at least, and I
suspect in Lybia, and in Egypt also,-new temples were erected and
hierogl,pbically adapted to tbe reception of the new deities of the
Ternal season. Of the Assyrian temples, or chambers of imagery, none
remain; but the engraved cylinders which do remain, ,"'"'rroborate my
position.
Having asserted thus much of the £thiopian monuments, I proceed
to the proof. In the sculptured temples ofUpper Nile, visited by Messrs.
Waddington and Hanbury, the crescent and disc no longer appears on
the head of Taurus-(thougb unquestionably these sculptures are of
much more ancient date than the Grecian buiJs)-but is remov.ed to the
forehead of the Ram, or of that ram-horned God whom our travellers,
after the poets and mythologists ofGreece, call Jupiter Ammon.
These sculptures-for several of these ram-horned figures, surmounted
by the lunar crescent and solar orb, or disc, were seen-confirm the testi_
mony of those writers who think and assert with Lucian, that JuPITER
.Ammon is in reality no other than SoL in A,.ies, whom I have
to have been trans-named Jupiter Ammon, by the national vanity, joined
to the piety-at least their popular veneration for their own deities-of
our worthy friends, the Greeks. That the far-famed temple of the great
Oasis was called that of Ammon by the Greeks, and probably by the
Egyptians, of the age of Alexander, is clear from their accounts of the
military pilgrimage of that conqueror, to the Lybian oracle. That the
shrewd and inquisitive Lucian, was of opinion that no other than the
Sun in the sign ArieA, was meant by that epithet, is no less clear from
his express words. "The famous Lybian oracle of Ammon, whom they
pourtray with a Ram's head" (he says) "refers to the celestial sign of
that name, and to the method of inquiring into futurity by the aid of
astrology." No evidence can be more pointedly to the purpose: Yet
let us bear Josephus. He informs us on the authority of Lysimachus,
that, upon an occasion of famine in Egypt, Bocchoris the king, sent to
Digitized
consult the Ammonian oracle: "The God replied, that the king must
purge his temple of unholy and impious men, and drive them into desart
places, and drown the lepert:l and diseased persons, THE SuN being indig-
nant that such wretches were suffered to live." Does not this plainly
shew that during the reign of Bocchoris, the Sun was venerated as the
deity of the Ammoniau temple-the Ram being regarded as the seat of
his incarnation for a time, or as the Thoth or commencement of his
annual career ?
Permit me briefly to recapitulate the manner in which the
of the name of Jupiter was effected. The Sun was the chief deity of the
adoration of the Sabmans: and when the Greek poets and mythologists
visited Tyre, Babylon, the other cities of Asia, and the nomes of .Egypt,
hearing that Moloch on Baal-Ammon, or Beel-Samen, was worshipped
in these celebrated cities, and finding that these words meant literally
king or lord of Ileaven, this middle term, afforded them a ready oppor-
tunity of which they did not fail to avail themselves, both in their poli-
tical conduct and their writings, of indulging their habitual policy of
finding their own deities wherever they went. No religious
could be .more easily accomplished, because none more unCOIJSCiQusly
to the multitude. In Egypt, in ..&:thiopia, in the Lybian
ever the personified Sun was king of heaven, their own Jupiter being also
king of heaven, the Deities were identified-occasionally with the local
addition of Belus or· Ammon : the latter,-that is to say, the zodiacal
Ram-being especiaJly honoured in those Sabooan countries which did
not dissemble the removal of the vernal colure, during the twenty-one
centuries of his astronomical ascendancy ; and of course the heliacal
riEing of the chief stars of this constellation, was hailed in these coun-
tries with festive rejoicings.
It was. thus in AsKyria and in Phamicia: lt was thus for a while,
under the government of Solomon and other of the Hebrew kings; and it
is upon record, and is confirmed by Mr. Waddington's account of the
sculptures ofEl-belaJ, that it was also thus in the Oasis and in £thiopia.
Hence it is that our .tEthiopiau travellers generally found Horus, the
2E2
Digitized byGoogle
230
young deity of the vernal season,• or infant year,-associated in the
.t£thiopian groups with Baal-Ammon, (to use an Asiatic denomination in
the absence of the unknown 1Ethiopian name of this incarnation of their
chief deity): and hence, when Horus appears sceptred among these sculp-
tures, his sceptre is surmounted, as Mr. Waddington affirms, "by a
crescent and ball,"-denoting the first new Moon and new Sun.
Hence too the 1Ethiopian sphinxes seen by these gentlemen, were Crio
sphinxes: that is, having Rams heads.-But it will be proper to cite in-
stances of these astronomical allusions.
At Soleb, which is lower down the Nile than Napata, and in about
lat. 20°, 20' they found two sphinxes, one only having the head remain-
ing, and that a Ram's head : and they found two figures, which our
traveller pronounces to be of Jupiter-Ammon. He says, " Jupiter-
Ammon appears twice among the remaining figures, and to him I sup-
pose the building to have been erected."-These figures have their heads
surmounted by the symbols of the Sun and Moon; but the former sym-
bol is no longer a disc, as in .Egypt, but is orbicularly represented (ac-
cording to Mr. Waddington-! suppose be must mean in those instances
where the God is sculptured in the round, or in alto·relievo). And it i!l
further observable, that their heads are human heads; and the figures,
ram-homed human figures-the crescent, orb, and ram'tt-horns, being
represented as a super-induced head-dress.
I have quoted this ram-horned figure crested with the Solar and Lunar
symbols, as he appears in this gentleman's sketch, in the etching which
stands at the head of the present section, in order to alford my readers
a comparative view with other Ammonian sculptures. Throughout
.,Ethiopia, according to Mr. Waddington's account, confirmed by his
lithographs, lhe symbols of the conjunctive Sun and Moon, are a " ball
and a crescent;" whereas in Egypt (atThebes and at Esne)-wbere aiKo
the celestial ·Ram appears among the religious sculptures, instead of a
crescent beneath the orb, we behold the cobra cape1la, or the Egyptian
asp or adder, (I cannot be certain which), and another pair of horns
• And therefore aometimea termed the off11pring of Isis and O.iris: that is of Nature and
the beliacally-ri•ing •tar. of the con•tellated Hu&bandman.
Digitized byGoogle
231
bearing resemblance to those of the goat. For the former of these va..
riations I cannot satisfactorily account. The serpent or asp may signify
what the lunar dragon does in other countries: but the goat's horns
pear to denote that the bright stars ofCapricorn which are known by that
name, (the alpha and beta of the Constellation), were on the meridian
in the latitudes of Thebes and Esne, where these sculptured goat-homed
ramR chiefly present themselves,-when Aries was rising heliacally; which
a reference to the globe will shew to have been the fact.
In apposition with this .lEthiopian head of Ammon (or Sol in Aries)
I have shewn the Theban specimen, as it is represented in the great
.French work on Egypt; which exactly resembleH teo or a dozen instances,
to be met with in the same work, of elaborate Ammanian sculptures at
Esne: and this I have done that the reader may have a fair opportunity
of forming his own condusions, on ocular comparison.
If the Egyptian symbol be-as it must be-admitted to be that ,of the
conjunctive Snn and Moon, the .lEthiopian crescent and ball cannot be
questioned. We have before argued, and seen, in the case ofTaurus, that
this important conjunction only .took place, astronomically and exactly
speaking, once iu eighteen and a fractional part, and of course, the
time between one conjunction and another, or which measured the length
of the Saros (or cyde), was the same after the colore had removed into
Aries, when the stars called in the Arabic .Al-Sheratdn, or the pre-
ceded all others in the Lunar zodiac : and, as in the former case, the sym-
bols of the Sun and Moon were made attachable and removable at plea-
sure, or according as those luminaries might or might not, at the com-
mencement of the vernal season, present themselves on the forehead of
the ram-horned God. Conformably to this reasoning, we find, (as was
formerly noticed in the case of the sacred Bulls) boles on the
heads of some of the sculptured Rams.
There is a Ram's head of this description, formed of reddish
sandstone, and oftolerably good sculpture, in the larger Egyptian apart-
ment (that which contains the Alexandrian sarcophagus) of the British
Museum, which has doubtless belonged to some Ammanian shrine, or .
colossal statue of that deity. A representation of this Ram's head will
Digitized byGoogle
232
be found, combined with other germain matters, in the vignette bead-piece
to the present section. I have shewn the hole by means of which the
symbols were attached, on those sacred occasions when their mystic
elfulgence was supposed to beam from the forehead of the God.
In this vignette I have also introduced the Boll upon which I have
commented, from the oblong zodiac of Dendera, (copied also from the
great French work), and the reverse of a coin of Seleucus, exhibiting the
Syrian version of the sarue Bull in the attitude of attack,• older by more
than 'half a century, thab the commencement of the Egyptian reigu of
Ptolemy the Benefactor.
To proceed with our evidence,respecting the sculptures of..Ethiopia,col-
'lected from Waddington's travels: when that gentleman and his companion
arrived at Djebel el berkel, or Napata, they found a sacred rock or moun-
tain, about a mile and a half from the river, adorned with ruins of pyra-
mids and temples, and, among the latter, one of the largest in the world;
but' this appears to be not so old as some of the others, and the subjects
of the sculptures contained in it, are not mentioned. To the north- west
of this is a small temple, which (says Mr. W.) "has been dedicated to
Jupiter Amn&Oft. We distinguished the figure of the Ram sitting on an
altar-piece."-A procession is then mentioned in the presence of Horus,
" the young divinity with the thin beard," the weapon in whose band, has
the Rmn's Aead with the ball on it at the end. Of these sculptures the
volume·contains no etchings. I wish it did. What our traveller terms
a weapon, I suppose is a sceptre, or staff of authority. .
About a hundred yards west of the largetemple, stands a small one, not
one tenth part of its dimensions, but very curious, and I should sop-
pose of primitive architecture. Its four interior chambers are excava-
ted in the rock. On the right side of the third chamber is " Jupiter
Ammon, seated ; and Horns on the left, with a figure of Isis standing be-
bind each."-On the right of the Adytum, Jupiter AmmOft appears again
with Isis, Apis (the Bull), Osiris, and Horus, and in "the far corner
* This coin wu dug from the ruin• of Babylon, and brought to England by Capt. Lockett ;
a circumatance, however, which bas nothing further to do with our preaent argument, than to
shew the genuinene1111 uf the coin.
Digitized byGoogle
(writes Mr. W.) on the right hand, is a horned animal with a ball on hi$
bead, reposing on a pedestal, with a branch growing up before it, of
which the leaves resemble those of the Doom-tree." I must be allowed
to regret that no sketch appears to have been taken of this horned animal,
ball, and doom-tree branch ; as I suspect the latter to have
a part of what the Canaanites and Hebrews termed an Ashre-an astro-
nomical divining instrument, consisting of such branches, (of which I pur-
pose to discourse in my next Lecture),-and the whole group to have
had interesting astronomical references. A similar branch, however, (as
I apprehend,) is exhibited in the band of an enthroned figure, beneath
the portico of the fifth pyramid at the same place, of which the travellers
add that, before thisfigure are other "smallerones, bringing branches such
as are held in the band of the God." I have copied this deity and branch
in an illustrative vignette, which the reader will find a little further on.
When the prophet Ezekiel witnesses in vision the various idolatries of
the apostate Hebrews, his heavenly guide speaks of their putting the
branch to their noRe, as being the climax of impiety and profaJJeness.
I interpret, that it was in Canaan, what making the sign of the Cross is
in catholic countries; or kissing the hand to the Sun or Moon was in the
age and country of Job :-namely, a mystic sign or token, of recognition
and worship of the host, severally, or collectively; and conse-
quently of renunciation of the worship of Jebovah.-After unveiling
the idolatrous rites of the to the eye of the prophet, his celes-
tial guide says, "Hast thou seen this, 0 Son of Man ? Is it a light thing
to the house of Judah, that they commit the abominations which they
commit here? They have filled the land with violence, and have returned
to provoke me to anger ; and lo! they put the branch to their nose !"*
The potting the branch to their noses; or it might be, the kissing its ex-
tremity, was evidently regarded as the overt act of treason to the true God,
and of homage to the Sun or the sub-deities of the starry host. I imagine
that it is iu consequence ofthe veneration thus offered to Ashre-branches,
that we so frequently see them represented in Sabman sculptures: ofwhich
* It abould be remembered that this impiety was perpetrated by the wonhippen of the
riaing Sun, who turned "their faces toward the Eut."-.Esekiel, viii. 16, 17.
Digitized byGoogle
I am prepared to produce several examples. The French work on Egypt
too, exhibits examples'of these branches :-Their general form is that of a
detached branch of the Palm, or Doom-tree, as if springing from a·
central bole, and bending _gracefully over; something in the manner of
the aigrettes of the jewellery of Persia, which ma.y possibly be derived
from thence-as I have formerly hinted that the stars of modern nobility
are, symbolically speaking, from those of heaven. I trust that, as mine
are " Sabrean researches," and, as I chiefly labour at the " restitution of
decayed intelligence," I shall not be accused of having wandered too far'
after this collateral branch ;-from which let us now return to Waddingtori
and ..cEthiopia.
Not ten yards south of the small temple we have just visited, is ano-·
ther, still smaller, and on the back wall of the room right of the ady-
tum, are two defaced figures of Jupiter Ammo", and the young Horns.
It is well known that this latter deity is commonly esteemed to be the
same with the Grecian Apollo. The Greeks, upon their usual princi-·
pies, could not fail so to regard him ; and in fact, I believe that in the
superstition which embellished with these sculptures the banks of the
Nile, he was the personified vernal sun.*-The author inclines to believe
this little temple to be older than any of those of Egypt or Nubia-most
of which he appears to have had the pleasure of personally inspecting,.
and to have been " dedicated to BAccHus."
I shall presently have the honour of oftering some further observations
on the era of the erection of this temple; but concerning this spurious .
Bacchus (as I must venture by anticipation to call him) I feel it necessary
to notice here an error into which our traveller has fallen, lest it should-
as it very naturally might-lead to others.
Herodotus has written that only Jupiter and Bacchus-by whom, if
* Herodotus, as I understand him, alludes to the Sabrean allegory of the changing seasons,
on which this mythological fact is founded, when be says the priests informed him that " Im-
mortal bCings had formerly reigned in Egypt: Horu11, whom the Gruk1 call Apollo, was the last
of these ; he was the son of Oliril, and after he had trpelled Typhon, IUCceeded to the
tlmme."-Btloe'ltram. Euterye, cxliv.-Those who have read my euay on Osiris, will be at no
difficulty here. Osiris is the Bacchus of Herodotus, and in no other way could Apolio be re-
garded as his Son.
Digitized byGoogle
235
the explanation submitted to your discernment on Wednesday last, be
just-the Sun, and the ccmstellated Husbandman are to be understood-
Only two deities, he says, .were worshipped in the metropolis of
£thiopia.•-Strabo and Diorlorus have added other deities to the£thio-
pian pantheon; but the fair presumption is, that these were either vene-
rated in other.and remote parts of that country, or in the oriental..lEtbi-
opia; or are of subsequent introduction :-and that the oldest Gods of the
occidental £thiopia, those mentioned (under the usual Grecian desig-
nation or disguise) by Herodotus, as having been the sole objects of
religious worship at Meroe.
I suspect that it is meeting with this mention of Bacchus, in the wri-
tings of the father of history, that has led Mr. Waddington to suppose
this ancient Sabrean temple, within so short a distance of the probable
site of Meroe, to be dedicated to Bacchus. I hope that a former Dis-
course has sufficiently shewn, that the squabby and deformed figure
which he found within, and has exhibited-and which appears to be so
well calculated to sit astride over the whiskey barrels of the Bacchana-
. lian temples of the sister kingdom, can never be intended for a sacred
representation of the patriarch, or demi-god, who survived the Deluge;
· who first taught the cultivation of the vine; and whom Herodotust him-
self pronounces to be the same with Osiris. ·
I trust I have in that Discourse, satisfied my auditors that those au-
thors are right, who have supposed the Grecian Bacchus to be no other
than the Osiris of £thiopia and Egypt: and 1 think when we come to
reflect, that this same hoddy-doddy deformity, makes his appearance
within an edifice where the other sculptures are in a style so 8uperior as
to prove that the figure is intentionally deformed as we behold it, and not
the work ofany wretched bungling stone-cutter who could not do better;
and when we come to recollect further that Herodotus expressly says,
"VULCAN was sculpturedas a Pigmy"-Undcr these circumstances, I think
• " The inhabitants pay divine honours to Jupiter and Bacchus only, but tbeae they worahip
with the extremest veneration."-Beloe'& Htrodotu&, Euterpe, nix. t "It is to be ob-
'e"ed that in tbe Greek tongue, Osiria is synonymous with Bacchus."-Ibid. cxliv.
2F
Digitized byGoogle
236
that the present bandy production of one of "Nature's journeymen," can
be no other than a primitiYe repTeSentation of his lame and sooty god-
Whom we know was much honoured on the banks of the Nile; and
whom the Greeks-perhaps finding him to be thus lamely represented-
fabled to be hurled from heaven, and, of course, received in his fall by an
island of their own Archipelago. But let us hear on this subject our an-
cient and 'Venerated friend:-" Cambyses (hettays) once entered the tem-
ple of Vulcan, and treated the shrine of that deity with great contempt.
The statue of this God exceedingly resembles the Pataici which the
Phamicians place at the prows of their triremes. They who have not
seen 'thein may suppose them to resemble ·the figure of a pigmy. Cam-
byses also entered the temple of the Cabiri, 'to which access is denied to
all but the priests. Be burned their statues, after exercising upon them
his wit and raillery. '1'/Jese statues resem/Jle J'tdcan, 60118 tie Ca-
lliri are Stlpposed to he."* As there .are two of these ship-beaded idolst in
lKr. Waddington's .mthiopian temple, they may possibly be meant for the
Ca!Jiri oC whom so little is known. Dismissing these defonnities, we must
now brie6y refer to principles which I have no doubt your professor of
astronomy has far better explained : we must go back to what I have
termed our divine dial for the larger divisions of time; and which, by
bringing us toward the probable date of the erection of these interesting
.&:thiopian monuments, may afford us a pertinent instance of the antiqua-
rian and chronological use of the Sabrean symbols, the sculptured cres-
cent and orb, or disc.
Assuming then that the equinoctial and solstitial cohuE>B advance to
the Eastward at the rate of one degree, or one 360th part of the whole
· zodiacal circle, in seventy-two years-which has been shewn to be a com-
putation sufficiently exact for general purposes-and bearing in mind
that at present the vernal equinox· has passed through the whole of the
dodecatemorial space which is allotted to Pisces, since it· quitted the sign
* Beloe'• Herodotu• Thalia, :usvii. t My bead-piece vignette exhibits one of them,
for the better information of the reader; who I dare presume will agree with me that they could
never have been intended for repreaentationa of Bacchus.
Digitized byGoogle
337
.Aries; we ·must elevate the arctic pole of the to .tbe
tude of Nepata, which, according to Mr. ·Waddington's does not
ditrer·much above two geographical degrees from .that Qf Saba (Qr M;eroe)
as laid down by Ptolemy and confirmed by The qf IJPJl.,
the modern Djebel is ahout,JS0;.2.0' Norf.h..If rove
from the heliacal rising of the IMr Arietis,- which is the ( Qfl
of Aries, ·and allow,-as is customary f.jme
for its getting clear of the solar radiance, so as for it tA> beco.me viW,.W.e ip
the crepusculum of morning; it br.iogs the.equinoctial Sun nearly.to,t.J;te
meridian of the ·Musca-borealis : that is, to the middle ofithe
Taurus of the fictitious, and the Aries of the real, I lam pre-
tending to no more accuracy ·here than may serve lbe
us say 45° from the present place of ,the .Jf
these '!5° be multiplied into the 72 years, which we to ,lle
the rate of precession, it gives a result of 3240: This,brings11Qs·
B. C. CompaTing this date with early scriptural events,. and
chronology, it leads us to perceive that .these . £tJJiopjMn
temples were erected at some time or times, .between Hqbrqw
and the elevation of Saul to the throne of Israel.
Concluding here what I at present have to olfer ..
cient symbol or sign of the vernal equinox, and usual a.ccompPl.Oiment pf
the Greek. named Jupiter-Ammon-the crescent arul.duc-(or,bnU, as
termed by Mr. sculptured.in
to revert for a to Ammon himself.
In stating the agreement of my opinion with that of. Lucian and
macbus, I by no means meant to put the planet Jupiter•.out p{t,be
tioo. So far from it, that my more mature·opinion on
cated before, and formed ·from refieding -on all:
· that, a· memorable and rare conjunction, of Sol and Jupiter in the .sign
· Aries, forming the commencement of a astronomical cycle,
the true interpretation of JuPITER-AMMON, -and is .the. real origin ;.,\ld
epocha of the consecration of the principal of the shrines and that
were erected in honour of that deity. I the very,.rare. apd c;oinci-
2F2
Digitized byGoogle
338
ding commencement in the sign Aries, of a year of Jupiter with that of
the ordinary solar year of Lybia, ..tEthiopia, and probably of Egypt.
The more ancient inhabitants of the Lybian Oasis were a mixture of
£thiopiaos and Egyptians. Their temple and oracle were the oldest
known to, and aclmowledged h!J, the Greeks. I suspect that its endow-
ment and consecration, bore date from this memorable Sabmao or astro-
nomical era. But let us take an astronomical view of those Ammonian
mythologues which appear to be best attested, and attended with most
probabilities. Let us attend for a moment to Hyginus and Herodotus.
The. legend related by Hyginus is briefly as follows :-As Bacchus
was setting forth upon his travels, being distressed with thirst, a Ram
appeared, which led Aim wj,ere tAere was water. The grateful Hus-
bandman entreated of Jupiter that this Ram might have a place in the
heavens; which being granted, a temple was erected to Jupiter-Ammon.
Small time and trouble is here necessary to be occupied in explanation.
We have only, as we look at the globe elevated to these low latitudes, to
hear in mind what I have formerly quoted-that "the world which Bac-
chus traversed leading a j,ost of fauns and satyrs in his train, whose
images are to be seen among the constellations," was the celestial mundus.
Casting our eyes to the celestial sphere, we behold that in the £thiopian
spring-season, when the stars of the Husbandman rose acrooically, they
come above the horizon so as to be completely visible, precisely after the
Suo bas sunk with the head of Aries. This solves the mnigma without
the least difficulty, for the Ram leads ·Bacchus through the night to
where there is water; that is to say, till his stars were believed to set in
that Ocean which was believed to surround the Earth. And as this took
place in the vernal season-we may say on the night of the Suo's arrival
at the equinox, after its removal to Aries, and during the earlier part of
the period which I have termed the reign of the zodiacal Ram-it affords
the strongest astral corroboration perhaps that could be offered, of the
chronology of the precession, and the Egyptian use of the hieroglyphical
solar symbol.
Nor is the legend of Herodotus Jess susceptible of similar explication
Digitized byGoogle
339
and solution. He says that, Jupiter being reluctant to shew himself to
Hercules, yet not being able to resist the importunities of that deity, he
employed the following artifice :-be cut off the head of a Ram,. and,
covering himself with its skin, shewed hi.mself in that form to Hercules:
from this incident the Egyptian statues of Jupiter represent that divinity
with the head of a Ram. The Ammonians, who are a colony composed
partly of Egyptians and partly of..:Ethiopians, and whose dialect (a pretty
certain criterion) partakes of both languages, took that custom from
them.•
This record of Herodotus is exceedingly curious, and can be explained
in no other way that I am at alt aware of, and that is in any degree con-
sistent either with the majesty of Jupiter, or with the classic beauty which
belongs to fabulous and poetic construction. A mystified conjunction of
the planets Sol and Jupiter in the sign Aries, at the commencement of a
great cycle of intricate revolutions, is important enough to account for
the erection of colossal statues and oracular temples; while it is simple
enough to explain naturally and easily, what iu other views cannot but
seem ridiculously incredible. Hercules is the Sun. Jupiter's fabled
reluctance is aptly enough explained by the occasional seeming retrogra-
dations of that planet, even in the course of its actual advancement.
Of this we had, not very long ago, iu the heavens themselves an ocular
instance, and which took place in this very sign Aries.-1 pass for the
present that other Greek fable of Jupiter's being concealed as a Ram
during the period of his expulsion from heaven by the Giants; though it
be also of Sabman origin and of stellar explication.
When Astronomy was Religion, and Religion arrayed herselfin mys-
tic pomp and circumstance, and surrounded the adytum where she sat,
with occult ceremonies and bieroglyphical curtains; we may easily con-
ceive that the close of a mighty period of complicated astral revolutions,
and the commencement of another, would be awfully beheld, and met
with corresponding solemnity; and that, on tbe day of that equinox
which was honoured with the important presence of Jupiter, mingling
* Euterpe, xlii.-I baye not a Hygioua to refer to (here at Dulwicb)-1 t!lke tbe fact from
the First Book of Banier'a Mythology.
Digitized byGoogle
240
..
his rays with those .of the ascending Sun, and both beaming with benevO-
lence the horoscope of the commencing cycle-numerous victims
would smoke on the altars of the thrice-honoured rising Ram.
'
TsE readeJ," perceives that .I think it very likely that at a time comme-
morated in .tEtbiopia, in .Egypt, and in Lybia, in this impre.ssive manner;
by sacred observances, and by the erection of temples calculated to out-
last .these immenge cycles of planetary revolutions-Jupiter was rising
from the cusp of the horizon-that is, was in the sign Aries, having 'just
passed bis ascending node ; and that the Sun was rising there : so
. that the Sun, Jupiter, and the bright star Arietis, were seen together, or
.the Sun half an hour of the two .latter, at the 'dawning of the
day of the vernal equinox.
It would be very interesting if we could come at the epocha 'of this
great astroqomical event; and it would increase that interest if we could
. discover that the Moon also was in conjunction with the above. But
.this is too.much for me to to hope for; and I must frankly con-
. less, that the statements I am about to can be little better thlm
• hypothetical, since I am too deficient in astronon:iical knowledge for if to
..be much otherwise. .He who pleases may skip or fly from this
lin,e of and confession, till he arrives at the printer's .next line .of
demarkation.
But 1 feel somethi[)g an obligation to hazard at least' the gem-
, blance ofparticulars, in order to help the less informed, as well as tbe
better.informed, of my readers, a thorough conception of that general
principle wbich it seems they should know, and which .the
latter.will Q( themselves know bow to follow up.
The periodical revolutions of the Jupiter, may not inaptly be
compared to those of the hour-index, or band, of a clock or'watch; the
former moving through the twelve signs of the zodiac, in one of his re-
volutions, as the latter does through the twelve signs (or hours) of the
dial-plate, in one of his; the year of Jupiter being the day of the dial-
Digitized byGoogle
241
plate. The minute-hand meanwhile-which may be compared to the Sun
(more properly indeed to the revolving Earth-which in the present case
comes to the same thing, the Sun's rising and setting being known to be
only a mode of speech) performs this round in a 'single hour, or one of
Ais years. Hence it will be clear tllat the Sun must come in conjunction
-that is to say, must overtake Jupiter somewhere in the once in
every revolution, as the hour-hand does the minute-hand. But here the
parity ends, owing, I suppose, to the different inclinations of the planes
of the orbits of the Earth and Jupiter; or rather, to our not looking at
the system of the universe in the abstract, as we do at the dial-plate;
and to our calling by the term conjunction, only those positions of the Sun
and Jupiter where they form a right line with our own visual rays as we
stand on our own planet. There would else, I apprehend, be further
concordance with the clock, which brings its two bands in conjunction,
. '
once in every cycle of twelve hours, namely at noon.
An astronomical bas computed for me, that Jupiter must
162 revolutions, and the Sun or Earth 1,803-which of cour8e would
take up the latter number of our years, in order to accomplish a con-
junction of these planets in the given sign, Aries-1 ·mean· so exact a
conjunction as for the planets to meet again apparently at the samei star,
or degree• of the ecliptic.
Now, according to the "Prophetic Almanack", which I believe fill'
transcends all other publications of the kind that have yet issned from
the European press; and which of course may be relied on for facts of
the kind which I am about to state-the Sun entered the sign Aries,
• I have here to record a mistaken computation which baa unfortunately found ita way into
the latter part of mylit\h Euay, in discouning of a Babylonian figure ofJupiter. The friend
who made it must have been tmder tile ;,yiumce ofAil 11ar1 at the time, u he probably
made auch a mistake before. Himself afterward diacovered it, which baa prevented me
from repeating it here. It reapectl the period of time between one co.Vunction oftbe planeta
Sol and Jupiter, and another, which in my I50th page ia ltated to be 1,080 years, whereu it
should have been aa here alated, 1,803. orcoune thia contravene. m1 former computation of
the age of the Babylonian cylinder; and carriea it back either to il B. C. or to a Vef1 obacure
period of Babylonian hiatory, between the reicn• of AnJiua and Bel-Ocbus, years before
the Chriatian era.
Digitized byGoogle
242
March 20th, 182J, at ten at night near)y; and he came in conjunction
there with Jupiter on the 27th of tbat month, at 15' past seven. They
must therefore, if I mistake not, have been near-perhaps on the very
mea·idian of.-the ..A..lpka of Aries (the bright and .distinguished star
Arietis) and within an hour and a half (a very. trifle in long computations)
of the time of Sun-rise. The Sun's longitude being 6", 30', he must have
been near Arietis at the time; and the rest of the reckoning would have
been easy, if modern Astronomy had.not tormented itself with the fiction
of the fixed stars having moved ; which I freely acknowledge threatens
to throw me out here, and disables me from putting any other than (as·I
said) an hypothetical case.
In a gross manner, I conceive that I might put the case as follows.
The Solstitial Sun is 2,160 years in passing from 6", 30' of one sign of the
zodiac, to the same number of degrees in the next; therefore 2,160 years
before A. D. 18!1, tbe Sun and Jupiter were in 6", 30' of the Aries of
the real zodiac, on the 20th of March-or say at the vernal equinox:
now 2,160 years before 1821, was 339 B. C. whicb added to the cycle or
period of 1,803 years, brings us to 2, J42 B. C. for the era of their former
conjunction at the same place.
It will probably here be remembered that in a former part of this essay,
in calculating the general period of the erection of the 1Ethiopian tem-
ples to Jupiter Ammon, I arrived at a result of 1,418 B. C. But in that
·.case, an allowance was made of the distance between Arietis and the
meridian of the Musca-borealis, wbich is 9•, for the emergement of Ari-
etis and Jupiter from the Solar rays. If the same allowance be made
here, 72 x 9 = 648, which subtracted from 2,142, leaves 1,494. In tbe
above calculation I should probably have allowed the usual 10° or more
for emergement, but the bright triangle of Musca seduced me to place
the Sun·at that mark. Had too been allowed, my computations would
have met within four units, which is a singular felicity of coincidence for
calculations which refer to remote astronomical periods; for 72 x 10 =
720, .which subtracted from 2, 142, leaves 1,422.
Digitized byGoogle
Digitized by Google
TEMPLE"'
PARIS ti·r·n, ,,i,.
EI LINC ;.,;J, ,.,'!!•·•···.! '·' .
RCULAR C ...,., ,, . ,.
Cl ,, .••,. .,., ,., ,. .. I
D E.N DERA ·
· 1SIS "1
Digitized byGoogle
243
EGYPTIAN ZODIACS.
HAVING rendered, as I should hope, sufficiently clear, the meanings of
the symbolR which 1 set out witb proposing to treat, I
might here have desired leave of your Lordship to allow me to conclude
my present Essay, where intended· Lecture closes; hut local occur-
rences, important to science ;-interesting I am sure to your· Lordship-
particularly the recent removal to Paris of one of the celebrated zodiacs
()f Deadera,..:...bave given to those antique sculptures where tbe Solar and
Lunar symbols, and tbe sacred Rams and Bulls, pt'esent themselves,
additional demands on our attention: much higher demands than any
man. who has not been gratified with the pleasure and advantage of. per-
sonal inspection of the originals, can reasonably be supposed to be pre-
pared to meet at ouce: demands however, which every antiquary who
bas· in any degree studied the subject-should meet, to the best of .his
present ability, since even hints that are founded .in truth, have electric
properties when they come in contact with ·kindred intellect. In :fact,
TRUTH is the electric element, as well of research, as of·mo-
rality and mathematics.
We know too, my Lord, that an intense and increasing interest, is
risiug and rallying around these wondrous monuments: an antiquarian
appetite, that will for some time continue to "grow by what it feeds on."
They are beside so intimately connected with our present subject, that
I must venture a few further remarks on the published outlines, although
those outlines do not exactly agree: I mqst run the risk of committing
myself; and the hazard of such liberal indulgence as may or may not
be candidly granted to an untravelled votary of Isis and Astronomy, who
will be not unwilling to wash out the antiquarian sins he may commit, by
the af;siduities or the penances of future pilgrimage; nor to go to the zo-
diacs, if the zodiacs do not come to him.
It will perbaps be better to call the monument with which the city of
Paris is enriched, the circular ceiling, (of the small upper apartment in
the temple of Isis at Dendera,) than either the zodiac or the planisphere.
2G
Digitized byGoogle
Compared with our present planispheres, or with the stellar phenomena
of the heavens themselves, it and foreign mat-
ter, and is so far from proving what has been strenuously asserted and
repeated-namely, that it is the model whence the Greeks took the zodiac
which they have transmitted to us, that it would go far toward proving
the contrary. The twelve signs are there, to be sore, but they are not in
their celestial* places, nor within the path (as far as ·we are here enabled
to trace that path) of the Sun and Planets,-with rettpect to which, some
of them stand double; nor do they occupy any thing like those regular
dodecatemoria of space, which learned writers have asserted the Egyptian
astronomers to have exactly measured out by means of the clepsydra ;
·nor have they any very perceptible relation to such of their neighbouril)g
asterisms as the old astronomers have designated to be their decanst and
paranatellons; nor could these, or scarcely any other of the.asterisms of
this have circumscribed the same stars of the heavens, which are
supposed to be circumscribed by the modern figures of the constellations.
Nevertheless, it is doubtless an astronomical monument well deserving
of the most careful study ; and from the faces of its figures being all
turned the same way, as in a procession (to the westward) doea certainly
seem to refer to the circular and perennial march of time and the stars.
Either this, or the small apartment which was thus mysteriously ceiled,
was an arcanum of judicial astrology, and the sculptured figures were
employed in their boroscopical predictions ;-in that nativity-casting for
which, according to Herodotus, the .Egyptians were so famous. Bot as
the priests, astrologers, and arrangers of the Egyptian calendar, were one
and the same class, it is most likely that the hieroglyphics before us were
calculated to answer both of the above purposes.
• Cancer is even placed between Leo and the pole, which is the reverse of truth, Leo having
the more northerly latitude; and Virgo, and other of the asteriams, are very di•proportionate
in dimensions to the reat.-By the way, bow came the sign Cancer to be in this instance
represented by a Crub, unle11 through Grecian auspices i
t It it true, Visconti finds, or fancies, the tbirty·six Decant of the sphere, each presiding
over 1009f the zodiacal circle, in the outer circle but one, of these figures: and it may be' so in-
tended; but for my own part, I count but thirty-four, uole11 a Goose, and some other smaU
animals, might be reckoned for Decana ; in which case, here are more than thirty-six.
Digitized byGoogle
245
. Of the zodiacal figures, none are crested, or in any other manner
mounted by the solar orb; .but among those of the outer circle. tbe:Ram'a
head thus crested, occurs in four several instances; two ()f thoseinstances
being nearly under the zodiacal. Aries, and another·of them on the·aame
radius with the sub-deity, or Genius, whom some bave·pronounced·to be .
Harpocrates, and who above the scale-beam of .
'rreating the subject very hypothetically, I should (eveil.'apart ·from
my former reasonings) be led to infer that this Diooum'ent was constructed
a1 some time near the close of the zodiacalreign of the Ram.: aod it will
be remembered that the vernal colure remained in the Ram of the real
zodiac, for some centuries after the Macedonian conquest.
':fhe two instances which may be observed of orb-crested ranis'·heads, ·
nearly under the· zodiacal Aries-do they allude,-the eatliest·of them, .
to the entry into thi.
s sign or mansion, and the other to lunar time-.
being the commencement of the vernal, or last, quarter, of that Grecian
year which began at the first new moon after the solstice? And, was
this contrived in order that when viewed together with the. interior; .or.:
circumscribed contents of this outer circle, it might alford the means of
equating Greek with .Egyptian time-through the medium of a common
standard of astronomical fact? I should think so; but it muat be left ·to
the asterisms themselves to prove it. I suspect that both the zodiacs of
Dendera had tabular properties, like the great horologe or chronometer,
of Strasbourg cathedral.
. It may be remarked, that the one which I have called the earliest,
because the westernmost, of the rams' heads of the outer
circle, is quadrupled ; an hieroglyphical allusion perhaps to its four
principal stars (Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Lambda), which rose, as is
here intimated, nearly with the later stars of the constellation Pisct>S,
qnder it is placed. And it may be further remarked, that the other
-thesingle orb-crested ram's head with the little boat beneath-is placed
on the same radius or meridian, with the head of the Aries of the Zodiac
above; and in Sir William.Drummond's outline (though not in that of
the Baron Denon) it has the homed crescent beneath·tlie solar disc..
Another of these orb-crested rams• heads (ofthe outer circle) which is
2o2
Digitized byGoogle
246
shewn as if elevated on an altar, is on the same radius with the figure
surmounting the scale-beam of the Egyptian Libra. The radius touches
also the head of Scorpio, in Sir William Drummond's copy. Now at
the season where the later, or easternmost, stars of Aries, set acronically
in the latitude of Dendera, those of Libra had risen, and the earliest of
Scorpio were just peeping above the horizon.
The fourth instance oC the outer circle, exhibits the figure of the celes-
tial Ram complete-his orb-crested head being, in Denon's copy, beneath
that of Aquarius. The astral allusion is here less obvious and more un-
certain (.I think) than in the former cases. When the sun-crow.n'd Aries
was on the meridian, in the latitude of Dendera, the earliest of the stars
of Aquarius, were setting (with the latest of Capricorn ;)-but this, of
course, must have been in the day-time; and these latter were on the
meridian when, in the crepusculum of morning, the stars of Aries had
cleared the solar radiance. The latter state of the heavens is, of theee
problematical cases. the most likely to be intended by the authors of the
monument; and the rather, as the complete figure ofAries is in this in-
stance exhibited, as if walking in the procession to westward. Thus far
with reference to the figures which seem to march on the outer circle.
All that is within this cirde, and above the heads of these figures, seems
to bear relation (as I trust I shall be able with readiness and certainty to
shew,) to the EK!Jplian mode of reckoning time and regulating the year.
These concentric circles being brought together, probably afforded, in
the comparative view, the ready means of equation, as is intimated in a
former page.
And here I may be allowed to console myself for the discomfort I felt
in differing from Sir William Drummond, concerning the mixture .of
Greek and Egyptian styles of art, by the honour of agreeing with him
with regard to this circular ceiling's displaying the celestial phenomena,
as it existed at the Thoth or commencement of that Sothic period which
last preceded the erection of the temple of Isis. I think this display was
further calculated to facilitate the arrangement or disposition of annual
Egyptian time; that is to say-to regulate those sidereal years of
of which the heliacal rising of Sothis was the term.
Digitized byGoogle
247
Sir William argues that the point of termination of a Sotbic period, or
cycle, and ·the commencement of another, is marked on the monument.
He does not insist that the erection of the temple took place at that era,
but grants to Mr. Bankes, who has visited Dendera, and whose archi-
tectural ·discernment and critical knowledge of history he highly com_
mends, that it is probably of a subsequent age-later than the former
date by some centuries.
My globe with circumvolving poles enables me to submit some corro-
borating proofs of these facts, of which Sir William, without such means,
could scarcely have been aware, unless by his prescience. On the whole
-if I do not over flatter myself-my statements will be found to amount
to convincing evidence of the following facts :-first, that the Dendera-
nian temple is not of more ancient date than the time of the Ptolemies;
secondly, that the circulm· ceiling was the dial-plate (to use a familiar
metaphor) of EGYPTIAN annual time, bearing meanwhile a specified
trospective reference to the commencement of the Sothic eyde which
last preceded the erection of the temple; thirdly, tbat the sculptured
figures of the outer circle were introduced in order to afford the means
of acontinued comparative view of the Egyptian and Grecian calendars.
..;_Fourthly, that the oblong zodiac of the samH tHmplP., was, on the other
hand, e;onstru'cted with more especial reference to GREEK time, and the
Macedonian march of the seasons; affording a similar comparative view,
by means of which to estimate the parallel progress of annual time as
reckoned or arranged by the native Egyptians; fifthly, that the ascer-
tained place ofthe SUJJ'mer solslice at the ·time, settles-or goes far toward
settling-the disputed date of the edifice; and sixthly, that the Taurine
crescent and disc afforded meanwhile a practicable facility of reckoning
the procession of the seasons according to those primitive notions, and
primitive habits of regarding and publishing the celestial l!!ligns, which
contintied down even to at least the age when Virgil treated of the popular
classical astronomy.
These zodiacs then-if the above shall be rendered manifest-were very
properly, and with a view to the accomplishment of important public
purposes, placed in the great temple of Nature as lasting standards of
Digitized byGoogle
248
-. a1fordiog..tbe perennial means of correcting err()r and de-
:C,OJ:Irelati()n of astral facts; of faeiHtating the.
of liDeJDOl')'•.or·of aritbrnetic. with regard to time past
and to QOtJle; of colla.tiag and blending the of the.Sabreao
creed of ,Egypt, with the poetio of .the Grecian calend&,; of
amalgamatiQC the. popular and .local variations of all the
dars of the age, into an intelligible and consistent mass, rich with the
gold of and <$parkling with the splendors of heaven.
After this statetneat. l propose to I shall procOOd to
call my of which tbe ·principal are, the celeHtial sphere, the
outlines of the Denderaniar,1 zodiacs, and an hieroglyphic of the combined
phenomena of. the summer solstice, of which I have introduced a little
t;u'tber an illustrative separate engraving.
lam informed that some foreign .astronomer, or astronomical antiquary,
fancies and has publicly stated, that he has discovered in those bierogly-
pbical markings ·resembliQg in form the letter T, and which stand near
those parts ofthe outer circle, where the upheld bands of the large figures
seem to sustain the ceiling-the symhou, and the ouceplaces, of the Equi-
I think this a mistake; and am the more confirmed in my thought,
as they do not io any of the prints which I have soon of this
ceiling, with those hieroglypbic!J in the same circle, which this gentle-
mao supposes to m(lr" the solstices. I should rather firat look nearer
home. I seek for the indications of these cardinal points, on the
most simple principles in the most obvious places, by crossing, as I .
have done, the circumscribing circle, rectangularly, just as it stands in
the etched outlines, and, I suppose, in the ceiling itself, with reference
to the terminating
It is not to be supposed that the Chartomi would thiuk of placing the
universe, or the hemisphere, so much awry as thiet gentleman's supposition
implies, without some obvious, powerful, and especial reason; and none,
that I perceive, presents itself. Those Chartomi would naturally arrange
the whole, so that the leading lines-that is to say, the places of the
colures, should square, and keep the contents of the circle in due sym-
metry, with the walls of the apartment. This is so nearly self-evident,
Digitized byGoogle
that I shall not trouble my read4!1'8 with another syllable in the way of
proof.
Of two crossed lines or diameters thus intersectiDg other, drawa
through the center .af the cieling, ·and terminating exaCtly between the
upheld hands of the large hawk-hooded figures-one would pass through
the sceptre surmounted by a lotus-6ower, and through tbe'mitred.ha.wk
perched on it, which we may with ·the greatest probability, suppose. to
have been the place and the sign, on the Bgyptian planispheres, ef S&
this or Sirius,, and to have been the established line of commencement,
or first meridian, of .Egyptian annual time, and commonly termed, and
acknowledged among the best antiquaries to have been, tlleir TIUJtA. • It
was this leading line, or Thoth, with its hieroglyphical dependeueies,,aa
appears to me, which chiefly enabled the initiated, readily to make those
comparisons and computations, which were neceSsary to the co-existing
modes of measuring, arranging, and promulgating, .time, at .
whilst Egypt was under the government of the Ptolemies.
I am not certain whether our learned countryman, Mr. Hamiltoo, or
Signor Visconti, was the first who discovered that the mitred Hawk ,was
the real hieroglyph of the largest, brightest, and supposed nearest and
most poten.t, of the fixed stars, (Sothis;) but it is much to the credit of
the mental vision of the author of the discovery, to have seen through
the murky exhalations of confirmed usurpation and false pretension, fos-
tered by preceding writers, of the dog Anubis. Sotbis, or Sirius,• ap.
pears to have ruled that year of .Egypt'which has been variously aeno.:.
minated civil, or vague, or rural. Not being certain that the generality of
readers would understand these phrases-or that I understand them myp
as those who employ them intend-it may not be impr.oper to· state
that the Egyptians appear to have bad an ordained, local, and sidereal
year of days and a fraction, of which the Thoth, or commencement.
was the· rising of Sirius with the Sun. It was therefore of importaDce· to
mark this point emphatically in their planispherical exhibitions; and they
marked it in this manner, by a sceptre surmounted by a lotus flower and
* This star appears to have been termed, according to Sir Thomas Brown, Sotbis in Egypt
and Sirius in lEthiopia.
Digitized byGoogle
250
mitred Hawk, pointing toward the pole, and consequently forming a
meridional line. We may observe the same Sceptre and Hawk in the
band of the young deity, in those small sculptures arched at the top,
which Bruce with the utmost probability tmpposes to be Egyptian alma-
nacks.
Nor are the analogies, which support the hieroglyphical meaning of
these connected symbols, of a very recondite or mysterious nature. The
bright-eyed Hawk, aptly symbolised the splendour of the Sothic star;
the Sceptre, its rule and authority; while the Lotos bloomed along the
Nile at the auspicious season of its aouual appearance.
Returning to the lines I have drawn, and to astronomical considera-
of the diameters thus projected, passing through the sceptre,
lotos-Bower, and Hawk; may be observed also to pass through the East-
ernmost of the Gemini of this zodiac, which agrees with very remarkable
exactness, .to tbe of the heavens at.the time of the commencement of
the last preceding Sothic cycle, as proclaimed by my globe: for Siriru
and Pollvz-I speak here of those single stars of the first magnitude
which are respectively known by these names, and which now differ in
longitude about 8°-wheo I remove the Arctic pole to where it must have
been at the epocha which bas been mentioned by Sir William Drummond,
-lie on the same meridian with the utmost precision, as they do on the
Sothic radius of this ceiling. Here then, my Lord, is something very
like mathematical demonstration, that the centre of the ceiling·represents
the then pole of the Equator, which was nearly midway between the
Kappa-Draconis, and the Kochab Skemali of which I treated in my last
Essay.
None of the facts that to my knowledge have hitherto been published,
relative to this monument and the era of its construction, are so strogg
and striking as these :-none of the arguments appear any thing like so
convincing. But let us go over the details of the problem or the theo-
rem, that is here involved.
Assuming the date which has been laid down by the learned antiquary
who is last mentioned, as being that of the commencement of the last
Sothic period preceding the probable time of the erection of the temple-
Digitized byGoogle
251
namely, 1322 B. C. and finding by tue tables, that the colore of the sum-
mer solstice then intersected l:r', 20', of the dodecatemorion of Leo, I
move and fix the brazen colure accordingly. It brings the arctic pole of .
the Earth or Equator, as already mentioned, to the space between the
Kappa-Draconis and the Kochab Shemali. I then, for the place, elevate
this pole to 26°, 15', which is the latitude of Dendera, as laid down on
Bruce's map. The results are as above stated-that Sirius and the beta
of the Twins, come to the meridian precisely together, the latter being in
the zenith, and the constellation Virgo having so far risen at the time, as
to leave the brilliant star Spica just beneath the horizon, which again
exactly agrees with the line quadrating on this ceiling with the Sothic
meridian, as my etched outline will render manifest: for that right line,
by dividing the arm of Virgo, cuts otr the ear of corn, as does the hori-
zon of the modern globe, under the above circumstances of the celestial
phenomena ; and if we now turn our attention to the western horizon of
the sphere, we find it still coinciding with the phenomena of the ceiling,
the quadrating radius passing across the eastern stars of Pisces within a
short distance of the Ram.
Time, place, and the state of the material heavens, when bronght to-
gether by the unerring science of geometry, being in these results, found
to be in exact accordance-the conclusion cannot reasonably be with-
held : Your Lordship will that we have discovered the Sothic me-
ridian, and equatorial pole of the ceiling, and that both agree in ratifying
the date of 1322 B. C.
But if we should further discover that, the celestial phenomena, as dis-
played by the oblong zodiac, belong to a subsequent period, it will follow
that the date of 1322 B. C. belongs (as I have stated)not to the epocba ofthe
foundation or dedication of the Denderanian temple, but to the commence-
ment ofthe Sothic period last preceding that epocha: for thoughAstronomy
does often travel backward-and the wore remote, the more valuable, are
her observations--yet she bas never been known to step forward to com-
memorate anticipated dates by means of the art of sculpture; nor would
the Egyptians of 1322 B. C. (an era when that nation was in the ·plenitude
of its power), have condescended, liad they been able, to think of adYert-
2H
Digitized byGoogle
l
. t
252
iog to future modes of estimating Greek time, and registering them within
their own temple of Isis. Danaus was, about this period, wandering in
search of a settlement, or had recently effected one at Argos.
Now-to revt!rt to the oblong zodiac-at the epocha when Sirius came
to the meridian with the brilliant beta of Gemini-(the latter being in the
zenith at the time)-it must have risen heliacally with the larger stars in
the neck of Leo. This oblong zodiac cannot then refer to the same re-
mote era with the circular ceiling, because the Sothic symbols-the
Hawk, Sceptre, and Lotus-are here found at a considerable distance
from, and not even on the same plat-band or fillet with, the sign Leo :
in short, are shewn as being at a certain distance above the horizon,
while Leo is entirely beneath it.
In the outline which Major Hayes has drawn for Mr. Hamilton, these
Sothic symbols are conspicuously placed, within a hieroglypbical boat'tJ
length of Gemini, which gives us to understand that the Dog-star (Sirius)
did not at the time specified, rise with Leo, but with some of the stars of
Cancer, and brings us within sight of another concurring and very re-
markable circumstance.
Not the star Pollux, the beta, but Castor, the alpAa, of Gemini, is in
tl&is zodiac represented as being on the Sothic meridian. From whence
is this inferable? (I shallbe asked.) From the westernmost of the Twins
being.sculptured with the head of a dog, surmounted by an orb or egg-
1 am doubtful of which is intended, but no matter,-whichever is meant,
it is an hieroglyphical allusion,-resting on an obvious natural analogy,
and on the Greek construction of Sirius,-to the Thoth of the Egyptian,
or Sothic year: which, notwithstanding it had formerly-namely, in 1322
B. C.-commenced from the Eastern Twin, now.commenced from the
Western: that is to say, Pollux was no longer in the zenith when the
Dog-star came to the meridian, but had been in the course
of the time that had elapsed since 13!2 B. C. by Castor. The hierogly-
phical record, if I have rightly construed it, amounts in short to this:-
Sothis, the dog of the Greeks, now rises heliacally with some of the
stars of Cancer, and arrives at the meridian of Dendera with the alpAa of
Gemini.
Digitized byGoogle
253
Returning to our customary criterion, the spherf", I here move the
brazen colore of the solstice accordingly, and I find that to bring Castor
and Sirius to the meridian together, I must move it till it cuts the ecliptic
near the point of separation between Cancer and Leo, and passes over
the star beta in the claw of Cancer, which very nearly agrees, in regard
to time, with my conjecture formerly expressed, of the superb temple
which contains these monuments having been erected by Ptolemy about
two centuries aud a half B. C. But as it still more nearly touches the
point of time of the Macedonian conquest, it may ·well engender a sus-
picion that the era of that very event may here be astronomically re-
corded; as appears not unlikely that it should be, if we suppose this to
haYe beeu iu the first great temple erected under Grecian auspices.
Here then is a further symptom of compromise and conciliation between
the Egyptian priesthood and the Greeks, who might, with mutual con-
sent, as with reciprocal pleasute and profit, display-the former, the
reign of Sothis on their circular ceiling-the latter, in their oblong zodiac,
the era of the ascendancy of Macedonian power.
The celestial phenomena then, and the hieroglyphics ofthe two zodiacs,
so far as I have yet ventured on their interpretation, are found to be in
perfect accordance. But our attention is further claimed by other phe-
nomena and other hieroglyphics, as well as by the differences between the
respective draftsmen who have delineated the zodiacs, and by those of the
learned antiquaries who have interested themselves in their explanation.
Two etched outlines ofthe are oow before me, which differ in
some particulars. One is copied from Denon, and is in the Philosophical
Magazine, vol. xiv. The other is introduced in Sir William Drummond's
EBBay on the Zodiacs. As they stand inversely, it is necessary for me
to say, that I take that in the Philosophical Magazine to be properly
placed, and Sir William's to be upside down-that I may be understood
when I speak of the upper or under plat-bands or fillets.
The upper plat-band consists, as I understand it, of those constella-
tions which were above the horizon at the time specified; the lower, of
those which were beneath it. And it has been agreed that the two scars-
brei which are placed near the right-band extremity of the zodiac, stand
2 H 2
Digitized byGoogle
I
I
'
1:
I'
•I
i !
l
; '
' I
I
I '
t
• •
\
'
•
254
for the sign Cancer, one being placed on the upper, the other on the lower
plat-band.
Sir William Drummond, coinciding with Mr. Hamilton, says that "the
sign Cancer is indicated by two sc.arabrei, and the division between
them marks the Sun•aplace at the Summer solstice:, yet he says, " that
the exact relative proportion between these two should have
been preserved by. the artists, can hardly be expected:• But why not?
If Cancer (the scarabreus being regarded as the true Egyptian repreMen-
tative of these stars) was divided into two beetles, in order to convey
meaning, surely the CluJrtomi who superintended the construction of this
zodiac, -would take care to see that this meaning was as accurately con-
veyed as their hieroglyphical means admitted. Sir William•s artist may
inadvertently have enlarged the upper searabams of his outline; but I do
not imagine that such want of advertence could attach to the astronomical
priests of Egypt; and l give superior, though not implicit, credit to the
much smaller beetle which appears in the outline of Denon, not only for
the above reason, but because I find it in superior agreement with other
reasonings on which (I conceive) the date in question must finally, or
principally, rest; and because I am not sure that the difference in the
dimensions of the beetles was intended, as has been supposed, to specify
the point of the ecliptic then touched by the tropic of Cancer.
It seems necessary here to write with reference to some precise time,
and we have seen that at the era of the Macedonian conquest, the colore
of the solstice passed nearly through the point which separates the dod6-
catemorion of Cancer from that of Leo; according to the real zodiac, it
cut nearly across the star Beta in the south-weitern claw of the Crab,
which the comparative dimensions of the two Beetles, as the Baron
Denon bas exhibited them, would give us to understand ; for the larger
Beetle-admitting for the present its meaning to be as has been repre-
sented-must imply that the greater proportion of the stars of Cancer
are still beneath the horizon with Leo; consequently, that the sculptured
figures of this oblong zodiac, refer to the stars they were severaiJy sup-
posed to circumscribe-that is, to the real, and not to the sophisticated
zodiac, or dodecatemorial spaces :-the crescent and disc on the back of
Digitized byGoogle
2S5
Taurus affording at the same time a practicability of pursuing a mode of
reckoning applicable to the march of the seasons, from another starting
point, and according to a more ancient and popular mode of reckoning,
connected with the close of the annual rites of Osiris.
I have written above with some doubt of the meaning of the larger
Scarabmus, because, though I suppose it to be steiJar, I hold it to be
questionable whether it is also Greek, or Egyptian? or Solar, or Lunar,
or both? The ordinary Grecian year began, we must remember, at the
first conjunction of the two greater luminaries which took place after the
Sun's arrival at the summer solstice.
I shall proceed to shew, as connected with this doubt, why I suspect
the Scarabmus to be not only a zodiacal sign, but also an hieroglyph of
the conjunctive Sun and Moon: and why, of the two which here present
themselves, one may denote a solar eclipse which took place--as we may
perhaps find sound data for supposing-early in the afternoon of Midsum-
mer.<.Jay, the Moon being at the time at her ascending node in the sign
Scarabmus, now called Cancer.
.That a Scarabmus might be hieroglyphically used to express an eclipse,
I was first Jed to suppose at Belzoni's exhibition: (Mr. Hay, who wrote
on the Colchester sphinx, being present and commending the discovery.)
The meaning, I thought, was conspicuously displayed on a wall of
his model of the whole sepulchre, which was opposite the spectator, as
he descended toward the chamber of the alabaster sarcophagus. The
eclipse, expressed by a large beetle and disc, was, I think, in the second
apartment.•
And when we come to consider the abstract form, or general outline, of
a beetle, and compare it with that of an eclipse, supposing the two orbs
or discs to be shewn in transit, as we commonly represent them in our
modern almanacks, they bea1· no inconsiderable resemblance; and this
resemblance is increased, when we refiect that in nature the interposing
Moon or penumbra, is commonly seen of smaller apparent dimensions
* I regret that a monument so valuable, and brought hither with so much care, as this won-
derful sepulchre, should not have found here a permanent station. Could I hue bad opportu-
nity of 1tud.Ying it, ·I might have found reason to change my opinion. My eclipse might have
gone off, anc.l I might have seen in the beetle and dilc of the sepulchre, only the: solstitial Sun.
Digitized byGoogle
266
than the disc of the Sun.-Again, we might ask, would not the Egyp-
tians, who made so little ceremony of inflicting hieroglyphical decapita-
tions and dismemberments, have cut their Scarabreus in two, rather than
have presented us with two Scarabrei, if they had meant to signify
that the Sun had passed through any given portion of Cancer? But in
truth, they have .omitted part of his right wing according to Denon, and
the whole of it according to the outline published by Sir William.
I believe Horapollo has made some kind of mention of a sculptured
Scarabmus, indicating a conjunction ofthe two greater luminarieS: but I
cannot say that in general I rely much on Horapollo. There is too
much of pompous affectation in a monk's assuming that high-sounding
classical appellation; and he so often mentions as hieroglyphics, things
that are never seen among the Egyptian sculptures, that :J regard his
writings on that Rubject as little better than romance.
If we recognize the small Beetle as denoting that a Solar eclipse came
on in the afternoon ofthe day of the solstice, and the large winged Beetle
of the inferior half of the zodiac (ofwhich Beetle the whole is presented
to view excepting his right wing) as denoting that the far greater part of
the stars of Cancer had yet to ascend, or were beneath the horizon at the
commencement of the year, we may obtain and carry on a consistent
meaning. In this case the small Scarabmus signifies an eclipse on Mid-
summer-day, and the large one is the Constellation according to the
Egyptian mode of representing it.
You will please to observe that the smaller Beetle appears to be just
crawling into the 1olar radiance, as if to denote that the eclipse came on
soon after the Sun had passed the meridian: and crawling from the west-
toard, because solar eclipses always come on in that direction. Yet after
all, and notwithstanding what has been written by Horapollo and myself,
I should add, put not your trust in Beetles, as emblems or hieroglyphics
of solar eclipses. The fact is not proven, but only rendered probable:
and Mr. Hamilton may yet be right in his announcement of the smaller
Beetle as denoting the proportion of the sign Cancer which had ascended
from beneath the horizon at the epocha commemorated by this monu-
ment.-But I shall presently submit a third interpretation. ·
Where I am sceptical, I can but write with corresponding uncertainty.
Digitized byGoogle
267
For stating our" sceptical doubts," and "sceptical solutions of those
doubts," we have at least the authority and the example of Mr.
and reasons are not wanting-resting too on sound analogies-for our
supposing that the scarabams may have been the Egyptian emblem or
hieroglyph of the Solstitial suo.
The chief of those reasons, as far as they are known to me, are, that
when at Midsummer the Sun arrived at the tropic of the Beetle, .as we
may term it, this insect appeared to possess the power of turning it back,
in the same manner as it said to roll away its own egg by means.of its
hinder feet: and it is known that the Greek word Tropic, which doubt-
less had a corresponding expression in the Egyptian language, literally
signifies, the point of re-turn.
But another doubt occurs to me here, which it would not be honest to
cancel. Leo is near the feet of that long and distorted figure embracing
the space from solstice to solstice, which I suppose must be meant for a
personification of the half-yearly path of the Snn,-a single figure only
standing between ; whereas Gemini is twice as far from ·the. feet of the
other half-yearly path-the space being filled by·three peopled boats.
This does not look as if nearly the whole of Cancer were beMatk. the
horizon; neither does the sign Capricorn being introduced in the inferior
half, agree to this account; for why should Capricorn be in the lower
half, unless Cancer were in the upper? What if the two Beetles then
should be intended to signify what we now, by means of measured de-
grees and numerals, denote in another manner? What if the two zodiacs
-the fixed and the moveable-were, in effect, known to the edifiers of
the Denderaoian temple, and are here, in effect, disclosed to the initiated
adept?
I continue to profess doubt and obscurity on these points, which the
sunshine of other minds may dispel ; but am now arrived within view of
a beacon which, with good steerage on our part, may guide us to a just
conclusion concerning them.
Respect for the learned antiquaries who are named above, and for
others who are not named, has detained me-l can only hope, not quite
too long for the reader's patience-in this place, confessedly of doubt and
Digitized byGoogle
r
;
\
: l
f
I • •
268
difficulty. The truth is, I felt too much dt>ferenct> for travelled learning
and urbanity, and was too grateful for what has been achieved through
danger and peril, to advance a single step without the actual draftsmen
and inspectors of the monuments, unless authorised by some call or
order more powerful and warranting than my own voluntary devotion to
the subject: nor could 1, even under circumstances more Battering and
encouraging than mine have been, have advanced at all, till I bad givt>n
the fairest ·statement, and granted the fullest weight to tht>ir arguments
and observations.
The public call just DOW is loud, not to say imperative, upon an who
have gotten in any degree beyond the surface of the subject, and I must
so far yield to it, as to venture on the statement of rather a hold surmise
or two, for an antiquary of humble and untravt>lled pretensions, even
though it should subject me to the courteous retorts or the " civil•
triumphs" of those who have been in Egypt.
Tht> circumstance of the upper searabreus of the oblong zodiac having
been so varimuly seen and represented by the Egyptian draftsmen and
travellers-(chiefly by the Baron Dt>non, by Sir William Drummond, by
Mr. Hamilton, and Major Hayes)-combined with other circumstances
which, after beating about for a time, had found anchorage in my mind,
have led me to suspt>ct that this scarabreus, as it has been called, was in
reality meant by its authors for a Crab, and that when combined with the
lower scarabreus, which is unquestionably a well-sculptured Beetle, they
are intended hieroglyphically to express, what might be expressed in
words as follows :
The Egyptian symbol of the sign Q:O, is a Beetle; the Greek symbol
is a Ct·ah. A beetle is therefore placed on the nether band of this zodiac,
to shew that according to an Egyptian mode of reckoning timt>, and re_
cording the transits or mutations of celestial phenomena, the far larger
portion of this asterism was beneath the horizon; on the contrary, ac-
cording to the Grecian mode, the far greater part was above it :-the
* " You have been in { said my gentleman, with the most civil triumph in the
world."-Steme', Journey.
Digitized byGoogle
259
blank line of demarkation between the two plat-bands, being that ofthe
Of course this hypothesis, or new reading, assumes a disregard of the
circumstances of those relative dimensions of the representatives of the
sign, which have hitherto attracted, and perhaps too much engrossed,
antiquarian attention,-and looks only at their difference of form, which
in the present case is very manifest, the Beetle being much more length-
ened, and in short, exactly like the great golden Scarabmus (or beetle
of Egypt); while the Crab, like that marine creature, is short and round,
particularly in Major Hayes's delineation. Of the three species of the
beetle tribe, that are more or less common in different parts of .Egypt,
neither has this round and crab-like form. Let us reflect. In the for-
mation and delineation of the zodiac, relative dimensions appear clearly
to have been put out of the question. If the Scorpion of the zodiac be
larger than the Ram, or the Centaur, why should the Beetle and Crab
be expected to bear or retain their natural proportions ? .
Of the above statements or hypotheses, the reader will prefer that
which brings with it, or leaves behind it, most conviction. We now arrive
at another hieroglyphic, of which I can write with more certainty, and
whose agency may perhaps assist us in dispelling any doubt that may
yet remain, with regard to the two beetles, oa· beetle and crab. I shall
first lay down my proposition here, without reserve, and immediately
proceed to adduce my proofs.
The place of the Summer solstice, which antiquariesluzve hitherto em-
plO!Jed their minds and pens in discussing or discovering b!J inference, is
marked in this Denderanian exhibition oftke zodiacal phenomena, b!J tke
presel'ce oflke SuN HIMSELF.
Some readers may feel as great surprise at this announcement, as I ft>lt
when I first discovered that the Sun at noon-day had hitherto escaped
all notice from the modern Egyptian students. But I must proceed to
explanation.
At the termination of the upper double row of figures-those which
proclaim what we now call the winter and vernal quarters of the year-
there is a very interesting, significant, and beautiful, hieroglyphical com-
Digitized byGoogle
bination, of which I have not heard or read of the least notice, notwith-
standing that to be recognized, it needs but to be seen and named. It
consists, as exhibited above, o( a circular disc, which is sculptured at the
termination of the upper row of boats, and appears partly to cover the last
o( them : it is larger by one half, than the winged orb of the winter tropic,
which is sculptured at the other extremity, which implies that it is the
summer sun; and is stationed,-no doubt, precisely at the then place of
contact of the ecliptic with the summer tropic-near the smaller beetle
or crab. A succession of small triangles, or pencil of rays, beam from
it on a crowned head or face; beneath which is a gate, or door-way. It
is, tile SuN irradiating tlleface qf NATURE, at the solstitial season.
The circular disc, is the Sun, "riding at his highest noon" on Midsum-
mer-day: the rows of small triangles radiating from this central orb,
(which, I would add, are twelve, if the numbers did not vary in the dif-
ferent copies that I have seen) express the emanating solar influence; and
theface qfnature-which is even now one of the most colloquial o( me-
taphors-is expressed by a front view of the head of Isis, the cow-eared
deity of the Denderanian temple, which is seen immersed in the solar
•
Digitized byGoogle
261
l'ays. The symbolical gate below, is the portal of those infernal regions
which the Sun was fabled to enter when he quittE'd the upper hemi-
sphere. 4 more intelligible hieroglypbical combination, or one more
obviously selected from the "pictured .urn" of "bright-eyed Fancy," I
have not yet met with. It exists, and is held together, entirely by poetic
analogies, resting on the firm basis of permanent existence. I think we
need entertain no further doubt that the place where the tropic of Cancer
touched the ecliptic, is clearly meant to be specified by this interesting
hicroglyphical exhibition of the solstice itself.
And now we arrive at a recoJiected circumstance, which, if I mistake
not,:will greatly tend to increase our conviction that this Denderanian
temple was under Grecian auspices, and that these zodiacal plat-
bands were dedicated to the Grecian.modes of reckoning and distributing
time: It is the well·known fact mentioned in page 265, that the Greeks
began their Lunar year at·the Summer sols.tice; or, to write with more
precision, they commenced or dated it from the first conjunctio11 qf the
two greater lumiMries whick took place after the Sun's arrival at his sot.
stitial noon. Nor did it matter to this commencement, whether the con-
junction was an eclipse :-1 am now merely alluding to the general rule
as recorded in the "Archreologia .Atticte," and to. its remarkable corres-
pondence with the Denderanian sculptures. The boats which are sculp-
tured beneath the zodiacal plat-band (as has been observed by others) do
not correspond in number with the monthly division of Grecian time,
which, unless History, in her aversion to Science, has made a mistake
here, was into periods of ten• days each, or we .might probably thence
have been led to more accuracy in our means of computing by LuMr
time, the era of which we are in quest.
•
* There may be more accurate and more certain record• of the Grecian calendar than I am
acquainted wilb ; but if we count the 8 boats that stand between Gemini and the solar radi-
ance, and the fractional parta which stand at the extremities of the lower row, here are 44 or
•.sboat1, which correapond in number with the ancient ogdoadical diviaiun of time ; for there
was a Greek lunar year coneisting of 3M days, and if this be divided by 8, it wiU appear to
•ccount for the number of complete boats in the zodiac, and ogdoada in the year, (44), while
the fractioAal remainder may be thought to bear reference to the imperfect boats.
2 I
Digitized byGoogle
262
Solar and Stellar time, however, may be thought to bring sufficiently
near for an antiquarian speculatioD'; and J may be per1uitted, in the way
o( summary, to repeat, that the epocha· commemorated, is that when tbe
power·and grandeur of Egypt and her Persian possessors,. were. oversha·
dowed by.those of Alexander.and his legions. must have given
peculiar and impressive pertinence, and awful efficacy, to the eclipse. if it
really took place-(which I am not astronomer enough to calculate)-
at the very commencement of the year of the Macedonian conquest. ·
Whether so Ol' not,-the time, as we have ·seen· by comparing .the
sphere with the ·hieroglyphics, wal', when the stars Sirius .and Castor
came to the meridian together; when the summer colore passed tbro.ugh
the Beta Caceria; when the tropic of Cancer touched a ·point which
brought the dodecatemorial space allotted to this sign, above, while nearly
the whole of its stars were beneath, the ·horizon.
And this was the important era ·Of the Macedonian conq11est. Let us
now •reflect, that to erect suctl a temple as this of Isis, must in all p·roba-
bility have been the labour of several years. How should its architect
foresee, so as to commemorate by an astronomical display, the time of its
completion? The Cathedral of St. Paul in London, was thirty-six years
in building; that of St. Peter at Rome, was one hundred and thirty-five!
Nations, like individuals, have in all ages sought to connect religion with
their military successes. The Ptolemies would naturally wish to perpe-
tuate the willing or reluctant subjection of Egypt, by gilding her chains,
and would date their grateful devotion to the great Goddess, from the
era when 1he eomigned her sincerest votaries to the parental care oftheir
Macedonian masters.
Digitized byGoogle
ESSAY VIII. TO SIR W. E. ROUSE BOUGHTON, BART. M.P. F.R.S. &c.
DEAR S1a,-The engraved cylinder of Jasper-opal which you obtained
in Syria, appears to me to be one of the most extraordinary that bas yet
been brought from the East,-whether we regard its precious material,
the care with which it is executed, or the mystic subject matter of its en-
graved contents. I bad the honour of submitting my first thoughts con-
cerning it, containing little more than a brief outline of the present disser-
tation, to the judgment of your late much respected father, Sir Charles
Rouse Boughton; and to his approbation, always attended by sincerity,
I am much indebted for the impulse, which under no·very smooth or
favourable circumstances, has carried me onward through the more ar-
•
duous studies which have been requisite to the production, not merely
of the present essay, but of those also by which it is accompanied. To
his high attainments in Oriental literature, and his frankness of communi-
cation, my best acknowledgments were due. They are now become yours
by reversion. Accept, with them-I begof you, Sir William,-my sincere
thanks .for the loan of the opal cylinder, and other interesting antiques
Digitized by Coogle
with which you have favoured me and forwarded the object of my re-
searches.
Notwithstanding the circumRtance of your having obtained this curioutJ
monument at Antioch, and that it is the productiou of an artist of ta1ent
superior to that which is displayed on some other cylinders of a similar
kind, yet it is obviously of the same origin-that is to say, belonging to
the same Sabman superstition, with those which my friend Capt. Lockett,
and his fellow travellers, Mr. Rich (the British resident at Baghdad) and
Dr. Hine, collected on the site of Babylon.
To the same superstition it may well be supposed to have belonged, as
that ancient Sabman faith in the stars, is well known to have reached
from the lands of Nimrod and of Jemsheed, through that of
Canaan, to the shores of the Mediterranean; southward to the straits of
Babel-mandel and the Erythrean ocean ; and northward to the farthest
extremities of Scythia. It may therefore have fallen into your posses-
sion, not far from the place where it was originally engraven, and used as
a signet: Sidon, iu this immediate neighbourhood, is repeatedly alluded
to by Homer as a very ancient seat ofart :-yet I do not recommend the
too ready adoption of this as I purpose eventually to examine
what latitude accords best with the phenomena of which we·
here behold an hieroglyphical display ; a criterion which you will pro-
bably regard as more satisfactory.
Among the most remarkable and conspicuous of its engraved contents,
is certainly that winged orb, disc, or circle, with a radiance emanating
downward, which in the impression, and in that faithfully enlarged copy
of it which forms the head-piece to the present essay, stands at the upper
left-hand corner, immediately above a very singular and curious graphic.
figure, of which I shall proceed to treat next after the winged orb.
In this winged orb, we arrive at one of those hieroglyphical and an-
tique .facts, which have not been liable to the lapses or the mutations of
language. To whatever other accidents it may have been exposed, it
has not, like language, been "subject to the tyranny of time, or the
capricious innovations of fashion!' Notwithstanding that it is obviously
o( very remote antiquity, it is what it ever was, excepting a few slight
Digitized byGoogle
. __...
265
fractures. And since it is the production of an unsophisticated Rge, ·we
might flatter ourselves·that it could not easily be miscoqstlued or mis-
understood, bad not our more extended experience taught us that Wtl can
safely rest such inferences on the mathematics alone, and obliged us to
acknowledge that sculpture is only Jess fallible aud lt>ss mutable than
derivations from the language of unortbograpbical ages, abd less· liable
than the language of any age, to be used intentionally as a mean of de-
·ception. But in the instance before us, we shall perhaps eventually find
that the Muses of Sculpture and Mathematics, true to thew harmonious
sisterhood, will present themselves hand in hand.
We have reason to distrust an old mode of research, since it bas·not
unfreqoently led us to incompatible conclusions, and to some that are
even absurd··and ridiculous; discovering a new one-one that is allied to
fineart, and to the surer sciences ofgeometry and arithmetic-we follow
1t up, in the hope that it may prove less fallacious than the old, and·that
the obscure spots in history and chronology-or at least some of them-
may hence derive elucidation.
It is, I think, clear enough for me to set out with assuming, that the
primitive winged orb of the ·supen.tition is that -which we find
eculptured ori the present, and which occurs on other of our antique
cylinders; for had it been derived from that which is· so frequent among
the sacred sculptures of Egypt, the wings would have more evidently
been designed to imitate those of a bird, and would have less resembled
the wings or sails of a modern windmill. The BabylOflian wings, of
which other examples will follow and confirm the style of the present,
are obviously-not to be understood as a bad imitation, or as an imitation
at all, of thoMe of Egypt, but are-either the offspring of a less perfect
conception existing in the minds of the Pbamician and Babylonian artists,
who, infant-like, were but· beginning, or learning, to sre things as they
really are; or, perhaps, conceived in mystical simplicity, ·they may have
been designed to express wings composed of sun-beams, and therefore
appropriate to the Sun, as denoting that light was either its moving
power, or was produced by its motion, or was of that supposed motion
the invariable concomitant. Astronomers still say, in a techni<'al sense,
2 I 2
Digitized byGoogle
that the Sun•s rays reach to a certain distance, and compute their helia4
cal risings and settings of the stars, accordingly ; allowing from ten to
fourtet'n degrees, according to the climate,.as the space in the heavens in
which a star of the first magnitude gets clear of the solar radiance. That
the symbolical wings had an original reference to this reach of the Sun's
rays, would be no unreasonable, nor very mystical, hypothesis.
From comparing these with the winged orbs or discs of Egypt, suBi.-
data are not afforded, for us to prononnce definitively, whether the
cylinders are of more remote antiquity than the Egyptian tem-
ples, (speaking generalJy of those Egyptian temples which are now ex-
tant), since (as before intimated) we cannot be quite certain whether the
radiating wings are the offspring of imperfect conception, or ofrefined sym-
bolical meaning. I strongly incline to the opinion that the temples are
the least ancient; but the two sorts of wings may possibly have been
contemporaneous in the different countries, for national styles of art have
always differed, and we cannot suppose that the religion and the sacred
symbols of all the star-worshipping nations, was in all respects alike, and
that the Sabreism of Babylon and Phrenicia, exactly resembled.that of
.lEthiGpia, that of Persia, or that of Egypt; the contrary being evident
from the religious wars which are recorded in the early scriptural, and in
the Persian, histories. If there were points of agreement, there were also
points of difference; and the sculptured symbols which were in sacred
use, would of course differ with the differing dogmata, as well as with the
national schools, or styles, of deHign.
The winged globe of Egypt, with its aspic addition at either side, as
we in such numerous instances see it sculptured ovea· the entrances of
their sacred edifices, may, or may not, have had the same meaning as on
our engraved cylinders. In all probability it bad the very same in Ca-
naan, Egypt, Persia, and throughout Asia, wherever we behold this re-
markable hieroglyphic: but this we are not at present called upon to
shew, and the less so, as, having been much disputed, it might lead to a
wide dissertation. Without this, I foresee quite enough. danger of my
being led into digressions that may require apology.
In Persia however,-at Nakshi Rustum, and at Persepolis,-the sculp--
Digitized byGoogle
267
tured orbs or discs, with their winged and radiant accompaniments, are
also found; and, what is remarkable, these accompaniments possess at
the former place, the same peculiarities of form with the symbolical wings
of Babylon and Canaan ; while at Persepolis the wings are rounded at
their outer extremity, more like those of a bird, and like the sculptures
of Egypt. This, when combined with the circumstance of the appear-
ance of the arrow-head character ou the cylinders, bricks, and sculptured
palaces, of Babylon and Persepolis, shews ancient and intimate connexion
between the two nations.
The bust of the Persian monarch rising from the winged circle, in the
interesting relievos of the latter country, when coupled with the circum-
stance of its being thus exhibited on the sepulchral monuments of Nakshi
Rustum, would seem at the first glance to indicate, to minds habituated
to the classical notions of and deificatioa, that an apotheosis
is, in those instances, intended by the artist. The downward-proceed-
ing radiance, similar to that which is sculptured on the present cylinder,
must in this case be understood to be meant for the glory of the deceased
and ascending monarch : so, at least, might have been supposed ; and I
might have inadvertently supposed so with the rest; but Sir Robert
Porter having (as I just now perceive) delineated these sculptures with
much more ability than any preceding traveller, bas me to
reflect deeper, and to castigate all my classical prejudices of the kind.
I think it may now be unequivocally seen, that in those Nakshi versions
of this device, where the face of the exalted personage is turned from
the orb of the Sun, and toward the officiating priest, (if for priest he be
intended)-that that radiant personage is descetadi.ng, and as these monu-
ments were, not improbably, like the pyramids of Egypt, prepared and
ordered to be sculptured, each by the monarch himself whilst living,
who after death was entombed withio,-the spectator i:s simply, but im-
pressively, informed, that the deceased tenant of the sepulchre, descended
from the glorious deity to whom the Persians (then called IrAnians), and
the Sabreans in general, offer sacrifice,-as the blessingand reward of their
piety :-or it might be understood to be in celestial compliance with the
prayer of the pontiff or archimagus who stands before the altar, for this
Digitized byGoogle
idea woold connect, religion with.royalty;·and:tbe ·with the future,
purposes for .which the PerRiao monarchs would gladly employ the art of
the sculptor; \fhile each of those.monarchs in his tum might hope that
the veneration ·of post<>rity, would 1ucc=eed te the loyal and living, Jove
and obedience of'his·sub.jeCts.
···As ·Sir Robert•
Porter has remarked, the volant and crowned figure of
Nekshi· "Rustum·appears "as if it had issued from the Son." And in the
case of the sculptured portals of Persepolis, the winged and beaming
figure above, being the very miniature of the monarch below-they aeem
to say, in the language of sculpture, He wko flOW walk1
-1116·eartA and reigns below; the great sBlar·deity wko reigm
'aiJotJe. a glorimls paJriot king, sl&eddi''K radiarat bleuings I
· You pereeive, my Sir, ttJat l ·cannot have the pleasure of agreeing
with Sir Robert, that the figure above is meant for the Fertl)er,• ghost,
or·second self, of the figure below. I much question whether such an
idea, or·the least notion of such a thing, lmd obtained, in the very early
ages when I conceive·these ·ltAnian monuments to have heen erected; for
I believe ttrem· to be much older than Sir Robert Porter has supposed.
. How common : it has been in the East, the priesthood and the
people to style their monarchs "descendants of the Suo," as we of
Europe ·write" Dei Gratia," is pretty well known: yet I shall presently
return to considerations connected with the antiquity of this custom, it
being an indispensable part of my argument.
The learned and critical investigations of Capt. Kennedy and Mr.
Erskine,t have shewn that the .Persian Dudth- is by no means of the
remote antiquity, or the intrinsic importance, that had been supposed by
Sir William Jones; but it may still be believed to contain some passages
from the traditional creeds and the liturgies which long preceded the in-
troduction of lslamism; and when it falls in with sculptured evidence,
may be listened to with cantiouR credence. That " whatever is on earth,
• For an explanation of this Penian term, and Sir It P.'s account and delineations of the
eculptures of the Persepolitan portals, see the ht vol. of his Travels, pp. 657-9.
t These maeterly production• are lately published in the second volume of the Traneactions
of· the Literaey Soeiety ofBo!bbay.
Digitized byGoogle
is the resemblance and shadow of.somethiog that js in the ap-
pears to haYe.been a dog10a· belonging ro an ancient faith, C,oeval ,with
Persepolitao portals: and as the Persian mouarch was snppPBed to have
issued from the solar deity, so he was believed to rBS6fnile. that. from
which he issued, by analogies so close and. visible, that scuJptqre JDigbt
express them, in full reliance that Persia and posterity .would not fail..t.p
recognise and understand them..
And these analogies rested on the permanencies of the celes.$ial .phe.
nomeoa, and of the science which thew. F01tunate (I may· be
allowed to call it) for n•y,reseuches, that the planets, .and theh:.l'evolu-
tiooary movements, are ever ·the .same. The Sun js per,eeniaJ, and no
mao shall say, as of sublunary matters, "peradventure he slaepeJ,h,".&c.
Hence, as the IrAnians saw and sculptured their solar deity, as radiant
with glory, and as appearing to revolve in an .orbit; and since Astronomy
had taught them (in reference to this orbit) that be was surrounded by a
circular belt or zone-the apt symbol of his real zodiacal, annual
so, the heaven-descended monarch-" the King of Kiogs"-was symbo-
lized to beam also with glory, and when. represented by t,be art of the
sculptor, was begirt with a similar belt or zone.
It would be easy to shew, fr0111 sculptured documents often
that thiH circular zone, with a certain appendage of ribaod
tinned for many centuries-from the SabaaA ages, even doVI(o to.the
of the Sassanian dynasty, or Jater,-to be an and highJy,leD&-
rated.article .of the :regalia of Persia, acting precisely the eame in
theil' eeremonies of inauguration, that the jewelled orb, Hurmounted IJy a
cross, does in the coronations of Christendom.
That the symbolical zone or circlet, with its riband streamers, further
gratified tbe ambition of the Persian sovereigns, by inculcating that they
resembled the Sun at the 1eaaon ofJ.u greatest power, or intensity-that
* Dedt6r, v. 85. It ia curioua that thia doctrine, and some other, auppoaed to be of tbe
ancient IrAnian religion, abould bave been revived in Europe during the last century, by tbe
Baron Swedenborg, who in all probability never could have eeen the Desater, nor preaump-
tively bue.read the Peblivi language.
Digitized byGoogle
270
is, at the summer tropic-1 shall not take upon me to pronounce. They
might, or might not, symbolize so far, or refine so moch. But I undertake
to proV"e, that the winged and radiant orb of our interesting cylinder, is
intended for tbe Sun at either tbe summer or the winter tropic. Yet as
mere announcement in such a case amounts to little, and might possibly
remind you (Sir William) of the vaunt of Owen Gleodower, I must hope
you will not find the steps which have led me to this conclusion, tiresome
to follow or destitate of interest.
Whatever may have been meant by the winged of Egypt, or those
of Persepolis, other reasons may be adduced to shew that the sculptured
and volant orbs of Canaan and Cbaldea, can have been intended for no
other than the Sun himself, the chiefdeity of Sabrean veneration ; and to
these I shall next proceed to advert.
It would appear from general evidence afforded by history, that, as
people of the present day variously denominate the Deity, by the words,
God, the Lord (of heaven), the Almighty, &c.-so the astronQmical
priests, used-perhaps with local references to places and dialects-more
than one solar title; sometimes pronouncing the Sun to be Molecl& (or
the king); at others Ba4l (or the Lord); at others and in a later age,
Mithra (or the Saviour), occasionally with such additions as served to
denote his stations in the zodiac at particular seasons• of the year; and
again at other times or places, they called him ADAD or Hadad-that is,
the One Supreme, or more literally, the One alone: but, we must bear in
mind here, that what is supreme, being without co-equal, must be alone.
Parkhurst derives the word in question from the Chaldeao ,M,t Had-
* As Baal-ammon, Baal-thurz, Baal-ath, t Hebrew Lexicon, p. 851,
where, and in the Ancient Universal History, may al11o be read, that Adad is the Assyrian
name of the Sun. I believe that, by most linguista, our word God ia thought to have grown
from tbia oriental root; which ia pronounced by the Arabs bard, or u if a G or a C stood be-
fore the had. With ringing the changes upon Adad, Hadad, Chodad, Acbad, Gbad, Gad, &c.
we might euily amuse oureelYea for a full half hour at the leut, "by the Blenheim clock:" but
you, Sir William, would justly consider this sort of literary fal-lal, u the mere huaka and shells
of learning. There is a swinish multitude ofbook-men, who may find them excellent food : but
when we crack a joke or an bypotbeaia, !laving gotten at the kernel, we throw away the shell:
Digitized byGoogle
271
that is The ONE, which being repeated, means-the One alone, or onlg
One;* evidently because the Sun shines alone :-because, when he ap-
pears, all other stars" hide their diminished beads."
This literal meaning, which I shall presently apply to the volant and
exalted orb of the opal cylinder, accounts at the same time for the kings
of Damascus, or Syria Libania, assuming the cognomen or appellation of
Adad, or Hadad; as in Ben-hadad (i.e. the son of Adad) and in Adad-
ezer (the contemporary of Solomon). The most powerful of the ancient
kings of .Edom (or Jdumea) were also Adads, as we read in the first
chapter of Chronicles ;t and the father of the queen of Sheba, who ho-
noured Solomon with a visit, was also an Hadad4 All were presump-
tively autocrats-i.e. sole and absolute, or aspiring to be so, in their
spective dominions.
Unless we might regard this pompous and high-sounding style, where
it has been assumed by royalty, as a perpetual stimulus to be godlike,
by acting up to its assumptions-as the abnouncemeot or' a perpetual
promise of lofty aims on the part of the sovereign-it can be considered
as no other than a very ancient contrivance of the Idumeao and Cana-
anitish kings, to superinduce a species of sacred worship, on sublunary
allegiance. To the selfish aspirant after, or the ignorant and undiscrimi-
nating possessor of, absolute power, what so gratifying as to be looked
up to as the One skining alone ?
It is curious, at a period so much later in the history of the world,
for us to have discovered that this assumption of divinity bas not been
• Since writing the above, I obse"e that Cicero caUiel Balbua to o&'er the very same reuona
u authority for the Latin name of the Sun. "The Sun (he aaya) ia named Sol, either because
be is 1oltu by hia pre-eminence above all the atara, or because he obscures all the atara, and ap-
pears alone aa soon as he oftlae Goth, B. i.
t "When Husham wu dead, Hadad the son of Bedad, which smote Midian in the Geld of
Moab, reigned in his stead," ver. 46 ; and again in ver. 50, " When BtJdl..hanan waa dead,
Hadad reigned in his stead."
t Volney's "Researches," vol. ii. p. 38. Corbett's translation. M. le Grand, too, in his
"Diaaertation on the Queen of Sheba," says, that even the Aby11iniaoa, who claim her for tlteir
queen, " affirm that she waa the daughter of Hadad, king of the Homeritea." The queen her-
self bore the appellation of Bel-kia, which also is or Sabean reference.
2K
Digitized byGoogle
l
..·
.
:i
).
!
lt
'
r
279
conftned to the oriental hemisphere. If tbe cbiefiJ of Tyre and Carthage
were ltho-baAis, Atb.baAls, Hanni-baAls, Asdru-balls; iftbe monarchs of
Persia, Edom, Syria, and the Homerites, were Ben-badads; the royar
filmUy, or Incas, of Peru, were synonymously "Children ofthe Sun;" and
those who are versed in the northern languages, pl'obably know that the
Runic BAl-dur is to the same purport.
Of the signet of one of these Ben-adads or descendants of the Sun, or
ofsome IrAnian or Median• king (as I should rather conceiYe) who made
the same lofty pretensions, it appears to me that Mr. Rich has favoured
the public with ail outline, in his second Memoir on Babylon. It is in
, his book, numbered 14, and from the largeness of its dimensions, I
should suppose has been a royal, stationary, or table, signet, used for the
ratification of edicts and other state purposes. .
The difFerence in the style of design, between the wing& of Mr. Rich's
Adad and those of your gem, is worthy of obsenation, since it affords an
opportunity of comparing the primitive simplicity ofworkmanship, or the
refinement of thought, of a very early age, with a similar work prodnced
in a later, and certainly better, age of imitative art. Here also re.appean
the radiance emanating downward ; and the ancient connexion between
religion and royalty, may be traced in the Mitbraic or the Sab8'an priest,
who holds the solar orb, as by a clue, over the bead of the monarch. Thie
engraving, (for an inspection of which I beg to refer to the " second
Memoir" of Mr. Rich), goes toward proving the superior antiquity of the
sunbeam style of wings, while it corroborates the idea which I have
already laid before the reader, concerning the archimagus and descending
Ben-adad of Nakshi Rustum.
The following account of the solar deity of the Sabreans, from the
pen of Macrobius,t unless I am much mistaken, has more direct and
* Concerning this oriental homage, bordering on adoration, our learned and obliging friend,
Sir William Ouseley, in a note to the fint vol. of his Travels, p. 109, refers to a work of Bri110n,
(with which I am unacquainted), "De Regio Persarum Principatu," lib. i. and to Strabo'a De-
sc:ription of Media, lib. xi. wherein the learned geographer affirms, that this apecies of royal
worship came originally from the Mede• to the Persians. In the primitive ages, the MedeR
and Persians were Sabeans, u well as the Canaanites.
t All find him translated by Dr. Prichard in his learned work on Egyptian Mythology.
Digitized byGoogle
173
more certain, reference to the radiant orb which is sculptured on Jour
highly interesting cylinder, than it is often the lot of the antiquary to dis-
cover between the art and literature of distant periods of time. " They
give the name of Adad, which signifies THE ONE, to the God on whom
they bestow the J.iglwt adoration. They worship him as the 111081 power-
ful Divinity ; yet they join with him a Goddess ; and to these two deities,
which are in fact the Sun and Moon, they ascribe supreme domiaion
over all Nature. The attributes of this Divinity, are not c:MscnHd ita
words, but in synabola, which are used to denote that power which
tributes itself through all the species of existing being. ThQ symbols
are emblematic of the Sun; for the image of Adad is distinguished by
r1119a dotlmtDard, which indicate that the influence of the heaven
descends by solar rays upon the earth."-
Nothing-my dear Sir-could be more exactly descriptive oi our en-
graved representation, than this passage of Macrobius. .Beyond all
doubt the cylinder presents us with one of the very symbolical Sun-
images, which be describes, and which it appears from the boob of
Kings and Chronicles were once very common in Canaan; and aioee ·
such sculptured truths are more unequivocal than any wo(d' I might
here safely rest the merits and the issue of this part of the presegt ia-
uiry; y et words must be prosecutively employed in coooectiag words
with the hieroglypbical mode of expression, and other and higher autho-
rities, as far as words are conceraed, will transpire in the sequel, in sop-
port of the testimony of Macrobius. I grant you that 1\lacrobiu.s ia bat
a kind of literary androsphinge-balf scholar, halfold woman-but his
better half is here before us ; and, as he lived in tbe fourth ce»tury of
our era, and had travelled over the same Syrian ground with yourself, it
is not unlikely that he had seen such :representations of the solar deity,
as be describes and as your opal exhibits : wherefore considerable weight
and value ought in this place to be allowed to his evidence.
Allother testimony of some importance, and we will desceotf, if you
please, to what is under the Sun. You are perhaps reminded here of a
favourite phrase of king Solomon's. To every reader of the book of
2&2
Digitized byGoogle
274
Ecclesiastes, it must be obvious that Solomon wrote that book at a late
period of life, and during the season of his returning piety. Why. does
the phrase under t!&e Sun-" I beheld and lo! under the Sun"*-recur in
it so frequently? There must have been some reasons for this; and, are
any other so likely as, because, of those to whom it was addrettsed, or who
might read the book, many were Sun worshippers? and because the
author wished also to let it be known, that he himself was no longer ad-
dicted to this superstition, but regarded the Suo as a portion of created
nature; as an all-pervading agent only of Almighty providence?
But when I promised anothP.r important. testimony, I did not mean
that of Solomon. I observe that D'Olivet, in his learned version of the
ten first chapters of Genesis, makes use of words which I should think
must strike every one as being strongly expressive of our hieroglyphical
sun : at least, I have no higher conception of an abstract and pertinent
mode of translating a language of analogical or symbolical representa-
tions of tmng•, into a language of worth, than I perceive in the
employed by this learned Hebraist of " tAe lqft!l orb of luminous if-
It is obvious that Moses, in writing the Pentateuch-if he did write
it-would if possible, like Solomon, avoid calling the Sun by either of
his appellations. He would neither call this glorious light, Badl,
or the Lord ; nor Adad, or the One supreme; but would seek for ex-
pressions which should be simple, grand, comprehensive, and just; and
which, while they admitted the physical power and influence of the Sun
as an agent, should operate (as in the instance of Solomon) as a tacit
and wise denial of its moral supremacy as a deity. The words of
D'OJivet in this place, are" L'orbe de ftdJluence lumineuse;"t but in a long
previous note, and in his vocabulary of Hebrew radicals, he has shewu
that loftiness is implied in the text which is here the ostensible subject of
his comments: and to have cited the whole of this note and his explana-
tion of the radical ,M .A..r, would have drawn off too much of our atten-
• Tbia is slippery ground : nor am I quite insenaible to the danger of approaching so near
to an often cited aphoriam of the royal preacher. Yt:t I ahall proceed with my old new
matten. t Cosmogonie de Moyse nnionalitterales, p. fi7.
Digitized byGoogle
tion toward matters-very interesting, I allow, bot foreign, or at least, not
necessary, to our immediate purpose.
The words are used by M. D'Oiivet in mystic reference to Mount·
Ararat; but from this mystery-as from several others of the same verbal
charaeter-1 purposely avert, or would at present withhold, attention.
We have mysteries enough of our own ; or that are inseparable from our ·
subject; and you know, my dear Sir, that if we follow these digressive
attractions hut for a moment, what a swarm of pleasing and persuasive
possibilities come fluttering round our fancies-as they did with their
Syren seductions in the spring season oflife. These you would resolutely
brush away and discard,-(Sir William), and so must 1-however other-
wiRe at times inclined, since their butterfly beauties so seldom lead to
certainty, or to any lasting or useful results. "To-day they sparkle, and
to-morrow die."
IC we now apply the above epithets of this learned Hebraist, to the
sculptured Suo of our cylinder :-here are wings,-·the physical or mate-
rial means of exaltation, (to say nothing at present of volition), here is
the orbicular form itself of the Suo-which is introduced in the upper
part of the engraving; and here is also a downward-proceeding radiance,
which I take for granted will be allowed to be as unequivocally luminous
effluence, as sculpture could possibly express. A coincidence so close
and striking, between the record of Macrobius, the philology.of D'Oiivet,
and the facts of ancient sculpture--even though we had known no more
of the matter-would seem to render it doubtful whether the verbal, or
the hieroglyphic, representation of this glorious orb, were the original,
and may well have inclined Bruce and Sir William Drummond to think
that at least some of the earlier parts of the Pentateuch, were copied from
previously existing hieroglyphics: yet my own impression would have
been simply that the authors of these parts of the scriptures Aadseen such
sculptured representations of the Sun.
However this may have happened, I conceive it to be self-evidently
true, that simply to imitate a circular form and add to it a pair of radiat-
ing wings, is an earlier effort of the human mind, than to "body forth" an
analogical resemblance by personification, as in literature, narrative and
Digitized byGoogle
2V8
deecrlption, would be resorted to before the refinements of figurative or
metaphorical modes of expression. We run no hazard, I think, in coo-
cladmg that the sculpture of the winged orb, preceded that of the perao-
nified Suo.
The personification of the Sun appears to have been an invention of
subsequent date-if not to the sculpture of the present opal, (which I
hold to be doubtfnl)-yet to the idea, dictated either by infant scieuce,
or by NWereoce for the Sabman ancestry of thE' Cbepbenes,• of
the atars into cooatellatious, and perhaps did not originate in the same
country. The orbicular representation of this great luminary, accompa·
nied by the aymbolical wings, is probably of .,Ethiopian or Cusbite
origin, and may have tra9elled, by the route laid down by Mr. Brooe, or
that pointed out by Count Volney, from the primitive metropolis of the
Sabean or HomE'ritic Arabs to Egypt, by a more easterly route to Pene-
polis, and with Nimrod to Babylon. Herodotus writes that the Phc:2ni-
ciao1 tlaem&elv('ll (or Canaanites) migrated in remote from the shores
of the Erytbnean 1ea. But the pel'80nified Sun-a regal 6gure, whieh
in the subsequent of this work I shall repeatedly prodooe-ap-
pean to have been ftrilt formed, and formed in a later age, at Babylon.
Of time, of whieh the Sun's apparent motion is the meuure, Miltoa
writes that it is "ever oa the wing." This sentiment may pouibly be
meant to be mystically expressed by the&e winged Sun-images, or be
e'feB intended to be understood by common observE'rs; as wbell Hemer
IJings of "the indefatigable Sun,"' be clearly alludes to the unremitting
apparent motion of that gloriou orb, and to its being at the same time
\Insusceptible of labour; a sentiment which is admirably expressed iD the
sacred poetry by "comiog forth as a bride-groom.''
In a poetical pas•ge of the prophet Malachi, we read of " the &11 ol
rigltteoueneee arinJtg with healing Qn ils witags."t Tbe figurative e..xpree--
sions, appear to be taken from the sculptured which the
prophet bad seen, of the winged orb : the. genial e1Buence of the rising
• Tbe a.at.rononUcal priestl, who preceded the Chaadiaa,. and were called Chepbeoet,
from the lEthiopian king, Cbepbeua : the Cepheus of the modern sphere.
t Malachi, ch. iY. ver. i.
Digitized byGoogle
277
Suo, iii beautifulfy expressed by" healing on its winp," as every
thing that possesses the power ofrili11g in the air luu wings• the metaphor
is as perfect as But a tasteful and philOfc>pbieal modern aoho.
lar, writing of the antique, uses the words "wings of pertaaion," which
-\fhile they confirm the averment of Macrobius, that the -.ttributea of
the Suo (" not described in words but suggested by eymbols,") are used
to denote that power which distributes itself through all the epeeies of
existing being"-come looming up toward us with a freshntn of meaaiog,
or frelb eonfirmation of the meaning of the Sabean hietoglyph : a mean-
ing too which is certainly not impertinent to the mystic ayatem, over
which io the preeent instance the wings ue spread ; aor to what I am
about to mention.
Mr. Parkhurst, in translating part of the Orphic hymn to Ptotogonus
or the jird IMgotteA-by which the learned lexicographer, with ridicu-
lous adherence to a certain fanciful •ystem of chemical metaph1sics,
thinks is meant " the mixture of light and spirit when fitst in action;" but
which Voasius• or his Greek original, pronounces to be Priapus-hils the
following epithets, "etlaer-revolvireg; egg-lwoodi"'f; Bnltittg 111itle goldeA,
(i. 1. hMifwtu,) WINOS."
May I not claim, or reclaim, these epithets for the deity of the
Sabaeana? Unless the Orphic hymns are of Irish extraction, how could
Priapus be, or be bailed as, the Fir1t-btgottertl Meanwhile the Sun may
well have been believed to be so, by those mystics who did not suppose
that luminary to be self.existing.
I observe too, in Dr. Dodd,s translation of these ancient and extra-
ordinary productions, that Pan, Apollo, and the Suo, are there identified:
Apollo being addressed as the "two-horned god," (which two hor.Ds the
scholiasts have explained to mean the fountains of life and light), but
perhaps the radiating wings (of which the scboliasts might not have been
aware) misinterpreted by some Grecian enthusiast, might originate the
phrase-" tile two-lwrned gud tDleou lucid ea1, ligAt-givi11g, aU tAirtgs
f1iew1." And in another place Pant (ae identified with the Son) is in-
voked in words which appear not irrelevant to our engrating. The invo-
• De Orig. et Prog. ldololatrio, lib. 2. t Letten on Mythology, p. 65.
Digitized byGoogle
cation is, "0 happy source of ever-wheeling motion, revolving with the
circling seasons; author of generation, divine enthusiasm, and soul-warm-
ing transport f thou livest among the stars, and leadest in the sympho-
nies of the universe."
The reader may not be displeased to be further reminded here of the
beautiful concordance which exists on the subject of our winged solar
orb, between the Grecian, and the Hebrew, poetry. Homer's wisely
chosen epithet, "AKAMAl:," has been rendered "the irulifatigahle Sun,"
and I believe strictly means to perform without labour. The measure or
rhythm of that celebrated paraphrase of the 19th Psalm, which is too
commonly ascribed to Addison, but which should be restored to Andrew
Marvel, admitting of fewer syllables, the author has, " the unwearied
Sun:" the Psalm itself, with that more sublime reference to the Creator,
which distinguished the religion of the royal poet, from the worship of
the heathen, is rendered in the Book of Common Prayer, after the intro-
ductory verse, "The heavens declare the glory of God."-
" In them hath he set a tabernacle for the Suo,• which cometh forth as
a bridegroomt from his chamber, .and rejoiceth as a giant to run his
course. It goeth forth from the uttermost part of the heaven, and tometh
about unto the eud of it again."
Whether this indefatigable bridegroom-this rejoicing giant-this vo-
lftnt and lofty orb of luminous effluence-is represented in our engraving
* Since writing the aboYe, I obaene that Sir William Ouaeley thinks tbis verae should hue
been rendered,-In tbe Sun bath Jehovah placed hi• habitation, or tabernacle. AI the question
of the agency, or the mpren14cy, of the Sun, waa the great point of controYeny between the Sa-
bmana, and thoae of the orthodox creed of David; and as tbia reading of Sir William's bas perti-
nent and conciliating reference to both aide• of the question-triumphant reference &lao, for
that of tbe Paalmist-1 conceive that the Bible-reading part of tbe public, will not be unthankful
to our learned friend for tbia important emendation-or restoration rather; for Sir William sap,
that according to tbe Greek aeptuagint, the Latin vulgate, and tbe ..Etbiopic Yenion, we should
read "ln tbe Sun be placed his tabernacle:" according to the Arabic, "He placed bia dwelling
in tbe Sun."-.Appmdi.r to id 'DOl. qf Sir William Otatlel• lrtmt'lr, p. 268.
t The worda tabernacle and bridegroom, as employed in tbia paaaage, baYe a certain local
and proper reference to tbe custom• of the Hebrews, wbicb ought oot to be oYerlooked, their
eapousale being anciently made uuder tabernacles or tents.
Digitized byGoogle
279
as at the time and in the act of turni"K about-that is to say, at the
Tropic?-we will presently investigate. ·It is obviously stationed at the
head of a very curious hierogrammatic representation-of--what? What
is this singular figure branching off curvedlyon either side from a central
rod or axis? and how is it connected with the Sun and its other sculp-
tured accompaniments?
It is apparently the graven image of a piece of ancient mechanism
which must have turned collectively and centrally on a pivot hinge, and
the branches severally in metal sockets, as we now move the branches of
a chandelier. But what has been its purpose ?-Let us examine whether·
or not it designate that mysterious system of fluxes of Stellar, or that of
the Lunar, influence, to which the judicial astrology of the Chaldeans
up for celestial light, and on whose supposed agency it depended
for existence. My imagination, I confess, bas been much busied about
it, and I shall now endeavour from that wide wilderness of fact and con-
jecture over which it has rambled, to retrace my more profitable steps ;
to cull a few flavoured berries and odoriferous flowers, and spread them
for the reader's repast, or bind them up for his amusement- happy if I
might have said, for his lasting antiquarian profit: but though I will not
anticipate that I have discovered the precise intention of the author of
this interesting diagram, or representation of an ancient astro-
nomical machine-(or whatsoever it may prove)-1 cannot .forbear to
hope that what I shall have the honour to suggest, will at.the least, lead
better informed minds to conceive it.
Is it intended to express generally the heavenly host: that is to say,
those orderly degrees of spiritual intelligences, which the Sabmans sup-
posed to be enspbered in the stars-marshalled and led on by BaaJ.Sahal
(i.e. the Lord of Sabaoth ?) This was among the first questions I
myself concerning this extraordinary figure.
In the introductory discourse to his version of job, Dr. Good an-
nounces, with his usual perspicacity, as one of the chief doctrines of the
patriarchal faith, that the intentions of Providence were beJieved to be
carried into effect, by an heavenly hierarchy, composed of various ranks
2L
Digitized byGoogle
.
' '
280
and orders, possessing different names, dignities, and oJiices: and the
manner in which tM Host of Sabaoth is generally spoken of, implies that
similar principles of subordination-perhaps the very differently
undel'8tood-were applied by the star-worshippers to the stars. Miltoa;
with reference to the heavenly hierarchy, if not to the stellar origin of his
fallen spirits, makes Satan address them-
" Proren.v of ligl•t1
Thrones, domination•, prtncedoms, Yirtues, powers:,.
Hence too the probable origin of those scriptural texts (of which there
are several,) that express or imply, that" One star may differ &om an-
other star in glory."
I observe that Parkhurst, in expressing the word '0(Sil), renden p1111
of the 12th verse of Job, xxii.-" the head of the stellar fluxes, how high
they ate!,. But Dr. Good embodies the ideas contained in the whole of
this verse more distinctly, by rendering it, ''Is not God in the heights of
the heavens? and doth he not look down on the topmost stars?"-With
that substitution of the solar orb, for .Jehovah, which must have' taken
place among the Sabreans at the et'a when they unhappily apoetatieed
from the pure and primitive faith which became that of the patriarchs,
by substituting veneration for visible signs, instead of that which was
due lo invisible causation,-this mystic state of things, appeared to my
earlier reflectiOns, to be intended to be expressed on our gem. In fact,
many of the terms made use of in the book of Job, and in other parts of
the Bible-, shew that the hosts of heaven-stellar, as wetl as angelie-
were supposed to exist, like tbose of eartb raised by imag;oation to a
state o'f ideal perfe-ction, under orderly degrees of beautiful subordina..
tion ; and it seemed no 'Very extravagant supposition, that the figure
which this engraving presents, might be an attempt to explain or indicate
the Sabrean system of stellar fluxes of astrological virtne, by a geMne-
trical or hierogramtnatical figure; as we now use an armiHary sphere to
explain the imaginary circtes of the heavens, and an orrery or phuteta-
rium, to illustrate t'he motions of the planets.
.But it may possibly be the engraved representat!on of such armiJlary.
Digitized byGoogle
281
or revolving, machines, as were actually used by the astronomical priests
in very remote ages, for the purpose of explaining, or recording, the pe-
riodical motions of the euo, moon, and stars, (or it may be only of the
sun and our annual complement of moons). Ltt us carefu)ly inquire,
for in case it should tum out to be the resuscitation of an antique astro-
nomical instrument, it cannot fail to be regarded as a most interesting
and precious fragment of antiquarian acquirement.
Its general resemblance to a tree, and more especially to a tree with
collateral and pendant branches, like the palm-tribe, needs scarcely to
be pointed out The sacred and mystic tree of the Hebrew Cabbalists
appears to have been taken at first from some Sahwan diagram of this de-
scription. Sir William Drummond says, that, "though calleda tree, it was
a type of the universal or Mundane system," and again, in the <Edipus
Judaicus, pp. 198, 9, he writes more amply to the present purpose. "A
fruit-tree was certainly a symbol of the starry heavens, and the fruits
typified the coostellations.• In the ancient astronomical monuments of
the Persiafts,t fruit.trees are generally represented. We see traceft of
this in the mythology of the Greeks, and especially in the astronomical
allegory concerning the golden apples brought by Hercules from the
'gardens of the Hesperides. In the thirty-six decans taken from the
Egyptian astrologers, frequent allusions are made to fruit-trees and
fruits."
"On the ancientcoins and other monuments of the Tsabaists [Sabeans]
and eveta of the Israelites, we see fruit-trees represented. The Sephi-
roth of the Cabbalists was disposed in the form of a tree ; and of course
under this form they intended to represent the universal system. The
fruit-tree mentioned in the Apocalypse, has been supposed by some to
• Tbia may aJao be inferred from Joeephut'a account of the sacred gifts of Plolemy to tbe
Jewish priesthood.-Vide Philo'• Embauy.
t On a beautiful cylinder of Chalcedony in the Britilh Muteum, of which the subject it
.utronemical, and the style of design Peraian, a palm-tree it represented. It hu, u in the
upper part of our engraved armiUary inatrumeot. aix branches oo either side, and beneath
these haogt on either aide the sheathed hit. formiog, u iD the palm or date tree, a
ball at the extremity of ita atalk.
•
Digitized byGoogle
282
be a type of the zodiac, as it bore twelve fruits, and one each month.
In the Apocryphal Gospel of Eve, spoken of by St. .Epiphanius, it is
said that the Tree qf Life bore one apple each month. The Arabians
typify the zodiac by a fruit-tree; and on the twelvt- branches of this tree,
the stars are depicted as clusters of fruit. The Cabbalists represent the
tree of life as marked with the emblems of the zodiac, and as bearing
twelve fruits. When we consider these things, together with the reve-
rence of the Tsabaists for groves and trees, we shall hardly doubt that
trees, and especially fruit-trees, were symbols of the starry heavens." ·
Thus far Sir William Drummond; nor do I perceive that Dr. Kennicot
is much, if at all, at variance on these points, with this ardent and phi-
losophical inquirer. The learned Doctor remarks, that St. John the
Divine did, in his vision of the River and Trees of Life, but eOP!J the
prophet Ezekiel, to whom the form of the second temple was revealed in
a vision at Babylon.t And certainly the visions-even many of the par-
ticular expressions-are so very similar, that the mystical meaning may
well be thought to be the This is especially the cat&e with regard
to the trees of life; for while the prophet says, " It sludl bringforM new
fruits to its montlls,"j: the Apostle nearly repeats him in terms
as follows:-" There were trees of life which bare twelve manner of
fruits, yieldi11g their fruit every mmath."§
Of what have been generally, but erroneously, regarded as the·groves
of the Sabreans, I shall treat more largely anon. My endeavour in this
place will be to lead my readers, like a jury of inquest, to investigate
certain past occurrences, which we can only see in their results. A grove
(we know) is a collection of trees of no settled or determinate number.
I think we shall .discover that what have been termed the mystic groves
and trees of the ancient Sabreans, were not unconnected ; notwithstand-
ing that, literally speaking, they were neither groves nor trees.
• This number seems to indicate that a symbolical palm-tree, similar to that of the Peniao
chalcedony, which is mentioned in the preceding note, is to be undentood. But it bean yet
closer similitude to the graven-image of our cylinder.
t See the fint of Kennieot'a Di..ertations, pp. 95-7. Ver. 12, cb. xlvii.
§ Revelations, cb. xxii. ver. 'l.
Digitized byGoogle
283
I request attention to the circumstance, that in aU the accounts of
mystic tree8 which I have recapitulated from Sir William Drummond,
Dr. Kennicot, the Arabian authorities, and St. Epiphanius-hierogly-
pbical, or artificial trees, appear to be alluded to, and not real, vegetating,
trees. Is it not a notable circumstance, to find between the Hebrew Cab-
balists, the Arabians, the anonymous gospel of Eve, the prophet Ezekiel,
and St. John the Divine, close an agreement respecting occurrences
and allusions so distant in time? How can it have happened ? Does it
not appear that all have drawn through their several local channels, from
a single and remote source? That some great and memorable arehetype
there must have been; and that this archetype was not a tree of natural
growth, but some symbolical, artificial, and mysterious thing, which by
reason probably of its having a stem and branches, has been analogically
termed a tree?
An armillary and astronomical machine,or instrument,erected long, very
long, ago-quite in the primitive ages-for the purpose ofcomputing or ex-
plaining, or enregistering, the motions of the celestial luminaries; supplies,
in all the places where those religious trees are so mysteriously mentioned,
the middle term wbir.h P.nahleA nA to reaRon onward,-fumishes the lead-
ing idea which empowers us to and to conceive the rest, in cases
where we should else be completely at a stand, or remain at the mercy of
the most moon-raking visionaries. Assuming, what I distrust not the
being able to show,. that &uch instruments have really existed-viewed in
the light in which this supposition, and the authorities above cited, would
place them,-tbe sacred groves and mysterious trees of which we read so
often in the early scriptures, as well as those of the Hesperides, of
golden memory, and all else that are mentioned on that far otf verge of
history which clouds darken, and where fable eclipses fact, and which
have called forth so much of learned disputation and various conjecture,
become far more intelligible and explicable things. To the Sabman aspi-
rants or they were doubtless trees of iaitiati011.. Almost with-
out a metaphor they might be termed trees of knowledge, if not of life;
for knowledge was their ostensible, and their only, fruit. Of life, how-
ever, Astrology always impiously aspired to foretel the duration, and
Digitized byGoogle
predict the leading events.-Ah! my dear Sir, those seducing trees of
Eden are within sight. Let 'us avert our riHion. Let us listen tO no
bland insinuations. Let us keep the serpent aloof. Let us say, and
feel, and conclude at once, that their fruit isforbiddell.
- --- ----- - -- - -
Ta1s Essay bas already run out to such length, and is likely to run
so much further, that perhaps I ought here to begin chapter the second.
In writing the latter part of the first, I trust you perceive, Sir William,
that my endeayour bas been to relumiue what time bas darkened; and
to reason, with some of the fathers of the church on my side, in opposi-
tion to others. It is not my fault that they do not all agree. Should
any of my readers have tho0eobt me unorthodox, here or elsewhere; or
that antiquarian urgency has carried me back too far toward the un&-
tllomabJ.e abyss of the past eternity; and that on such matters, silence had
beeu. better-other constructions of these mysterious Scriptures, being
wisely established-let him please to think nothing of my otAer-wisenua;
bat, creating a little sphere of silence to suit himself-let him pass 011 to
tlr.e remainder of my explication.. Let him tell me, if he can, in travd-
ling over uAtroddea ground, where to stop in an exploratory excursion,
and what fresh courses to pursue. Let him imagine, if he be able, what I
have suppressed; with Milton,s Adam, let him allow that err{)r, or even
., Evil, into tbe mind ofGod, or man,
May come, and go, 10 unapprov'd, aud leaft
No spot or blame behia.d :"
at least let him grant that I endeavour not to aiJow that early attachment
to a particular Hystem, by which so many antiquarian researches have
been so materially injured, to bias or obstruct free examination.
I have in effect before stated-and 1 hope the critics will not quarrel
with me for repeating here-that one of the unseen master-springs which
gave motion to the mind of the author of the Pentateuch, was a strong in-
ternal feeling that the great heretical mistake and original sin of the pro-
genitors of Israel, had been the rendering that homage to concomitant
sigfu, which could be due only to the FIRST GREAT CAVSE. The same
Digitized byGoogle
principle of the patriarchal faith is discernible in the wonderful poem of
Job; and it "bits the sense, of human apprehension in its finest aspira-
tions, in the divine morning hymn of Milton, where the stars, but more
especially the Sun, although declared to be "of this great world both eye
and sonl," is called upon to "acknowledge Hnr as greater."
Sabean meanings, and references to the faith, customs, and prejudices,
of those who professed this ancient superstition, peep out here and there
in the Pentateuch, and indeed in the writings of the Prophets, and other
early Scriptures, notwithstandiug that constant dread of the relapse of
the Israelites toward the heresy of their ancestors, which induced the
sacred penmen to disguise or suppress them, wherever they found it pru-
dent and practicable. The redemption-the reclamation rather, of the
Abrahamic race, might compel tkem to this conduct: but tOe are under
no such apprehensions for the true religion. There is no danger now of
our mistaking the stars for moral causes, or deities, or even for signs of
approachiug human events. There is nothing therefore to deter"' from
investigating this part of the mental history of man, by the prosecutioa
of such studies as the present.
Returning then to our graven image of an astronomical iostrumeot-ao
to pronounce by anticipation, what I am only in the progress of proving_,.
There are several passages in the English which have muc..la
perplexed those readers of discernment who wished to attain correct ideas
on the subject, from their having been supposed to relate to groves of
sacred trees, and at the same time treating of those groves as if they
had been susceptible of being stamped to pieces and pulverised, and also
of being contained within temples, and even under single trees; circum.
stances whieb are utterly irrelevant to groves of natural trees; but which
such nominal, figurative, or artificial trees, as I have here the honour to dis-
course of and exhibit, would easily explain. ""Neither is the word M,fl/N
(Ashre) which almo1t every where throughout the Old Testament has
been rendered Grove, the only phrase of frequent recurrence in those
early scriptures which treat of the superstitions of Canaan, that may be
proved, from the context and from attendant circumstances, to be erro-
neously translated in our common Bibles.
Digitized byGoogle
286
As those who would maintain the infallibility and the integrity of the
Bible, cannot mean the infallibility of our English translation, I shall
have the less scruple in shewing, from the internal evidence of the sacred
records themselves, that wherever in those passages which relate to the
apostacies of the Hebrews and the idolatries of the neighbouring nations,
the expressions, "Groves," and " High-places," occur,-as they frequently
do in the books of Kings and Chronicles, and in the writings of the
Prophets-neither high-places nor groves can be meant. I here speak of
them together, because we generally meet with them in conjunction.
ln the same texts which mention the groves, we commonly find the high-
places mentioned also; and the groves and high-places, from this habitual
connexion, have sounded like wedded corroborations of each other. But
it is to the Hebrew word, which bas been rendered grooe, that I would at
present solicit, and must endeavour to limit, your more especial attention.
May I be permitted to state here, that it appears to me, that our Bible
translators-being college men-men well tutored no doubt in the learned
languages, and in the classic lore of the heathen pantheon-I write it
with due respect for such literary attainments, and with due gratitude for
what they have accomplished; but-scholars of this description, finding
that groves of sacred trees were occasionally mentioned by .lEscbylus,
by Sophocles, by Lucan, and other classic poets, as having stood in the
vicinities of the sacred edifices of Greece; and being more solicitous, of
course, to render manifest the heterodoxy, than the science, ofthe Sabreans
-wishing to render their rites odious rather than clear; they gave them-
selves no trouble to discriminate between the idolatries of Greece and
those of Canaan, but adopted the idea of" groves," without due critical
examination, and employed that word whenever they came to the Hebrew
term .A..skre,•-just as in rendering some other technicalities which occur
• All tbe translator• but St. Jerome, wbo.e anchoritiah apiril tormentingly provocative of
contrast, appears to have come upon him when be arrived at the word, and taught him to
fancy, rather than to feel, that the Aahrea would become more repulsive and abominable, if he
represented them aa being something more indecorous and even lewd, th11n bad been apoken
of before, or perbapa thought of by preceding translators; never reflecting that human sym-
pathy bad alwaya eyea and imagination• for phyJical energy, but aeldom eara for moral pre-
cept. Indeed to an ancient proverb, the Aahrea of St. Jerome were witlwul tarl.
Digitized byGoogle
287
in those passages of the Bible which relate to the ancient astroD.omy, they
pressed Oricm into the service-some when they arrived at the Hebrew
word Kimah, and others when they arrived at Kesil: and this fiillible
course was pursued by the translators, notwithstanding that the name of
Orion must have been utterly unknown in the age and country ofJob, aatl
even of the prophet Amos. How came the Bible translators to allow
themselves to be led into this error? Evidently for no better, and for DO
other, reasons, than because actmStellation was clearly meant in the texts
which they thus translated, because they thought one constellatiGa was
as good as another, and because that of Orion had become familiar to
them, from their reading of Homer and Hesiod; bot "they might as well
have confounded Alexander the Great with Alexander the coppersmith."
In both cases, the -local antiquarian indications were passed unobserved,
and the astronomical mine was Jeft untouched.
Parkhurst, though previously disposed to receive the ordinary biblical
interpretation of the Hebrew words M,fVN (A1kre), and M,"tt!N (.A.8kire),
appears finally to abandon the groves of the translators, for be confesses
that in far the greater number of passages where these words occnr in
the Bible, they stand for an idol or idols: and if by those expressions be
understood objects of pious reverence or worship, in the abstract, or
whatever be their forms, be is so far correct; but he afterward writes,
somewhat vaguely, of their being feminine ;-notwithstanding that St.
Jerome was for their being so decidedly masculine. Let ns recollect,
however, how common it is amongst ourselves to ·speak of ships of war
(bearing perhaps the proper names of valorous heroes to distinguish them
from each other) in the same manner, as being of the feminine gender;
and let us bear in mind that in the same kind of idiomatic sense, these
machines may also have been verbaJly regarded as trees, without at all
confusing tbe ideas of the Sabmans. I mean, the seuse in which we now
say axle-trees, and in which we so often employ figuratively the term
branches also. In fact, the central and sustaining rod of each machine,
was an axle-tree: nor could a more appropriate word than branches be
colloquially used to convey an idea of the collateral curves of this curious
piece of mechanism.
Digitized byGoogle
288
l conceiYe that in the outline of a sculptured Babylonian fragment,
which has been sent home by the British resident at Baghdad, a Persian,
or a Babylonian, priest-one perhaps of the Ash-aphim,•-is represented
in his sacerdotal dress (as I should judge), and as in the act of conse-
crating the axis, or stamen, of oae of these Ashres (or artificial trees) to
the Moon, to the winged and radiant equinoctial Sun, and to AldebarAn,
which may be obse"ed to be sculptured on this interesting fragment,
ranged in an horizontal line, to denote their simultaoeoua rising on the
morning of the vernal equinox,
I
r·
I
\
A peculiarity may be observed in the mode of exhibiting the Moon ;
and the monument may possibly have refereace to a particular year whea,
she rose eclipsed. She is not, as on other Sabean monuments, a simple
crescent, but as if the astronomical priest who directed the operations of
the artist, had intended to shew a more perfect conjunction of the two
sreater luminaries: however, this may perhaps be only a local and CUB-
* A ueerdotal order, efwbicb we read in the Book ofDaniel, (cb. vii.), and in other parU
of the uered Scripture; aad ofwhich I aba1l treat further, anon.
Digitized byGoogle
tomary hieroglyphical mean ofshewing that a perfect conjunctionis always
to be understood as the commencement of the Babylonian year; or, more
probably of the cycle termed Saros, ofwhich I have before discoursed.
Of the disproportionate dimensions of the Sun, I can only say that
such disproportions are not uncommon in ancient astronomical monu-
ments; and that the space on·the stone not admitting of its being repre-
sented larger, the Sun was necessarily "shorn of his beams." We have
before· seen that with astronomical symbols, relative dimensions had little
to do: and I have introduced that more elaborate developement of. the
same hieroglyphic which appears among the sepulchral sculptures of ·
Naksbi Rustum, into the same vignette, in order to alford a comparative
view, both with the present symbol, and with the winged and radiant orb
of that cylinder which I am here endeavouring to explain and illustrate.
To shew that the equinoctial Sun is meant, an antique scale-beam in equi-
librio, is sculptured above his orb, which pertinently symbolizes the equa-
lity of light and darkness, at the nouroze or firat day of the year.
Concerning· the AldebarAn of this interesting sculpture-I have a).
ready bad occasion .to ·sa.y so .much ·9f this leading star, that the present
reiteration (for so it must be in great measure) be brief. This is the
star which . the ancient vernal season-1 mean in those very remote
ages of I .have formerly discoursed, and when the present monu-
ment was sculptured, rose with the Sun, and led on the host of Sabaoth.
I do not suppose that the ofBabylon, Persia, and the Arabian
lEthiopia,·materially differed at that·early period when AldebarAn was ve-
nerated as a deit!l or disposer: (the reader will recollect here, that accord-
ing to Herodotus, these were at first synonymous te.rms :) or that they dif-
fered at all with regard to this splendid star; ·and it is very remarkable
1hat Herbelot, in enumerating the more ancient deities of the latter coun-
try, professedly from Arabian Looks, mentions "AldebarAn or the Boll's
eye" (which leaves no doubt of the star) among the number.
We are much beholden then to Mr. Rich for rescuing from oblivion a
monument combining and corroborating these curious ·antique facts.
And now, after offering a word or two concerning another Babylonian
sculpture, which also will be found to reflect light on our proper subject,
2M
Digitized byGoogle
artd with which I have been favoured by Mise Porter, the sister of Sir
Robert, the distinguished oriental traveller and artittt---1 propose to re-
turn, with these auxiliary aids, to the futther developement of the Bough-
too cylinder.
The subject of this ancient and worn engraving-which I exhibit in
its proper form of an impression from a signet-is not, as a·shallow or
hasty observer might have supposed-a victim upon an altar, and a priest
sacrificing. Raspe has generally contented himselfwith this sort ofvague
explanation (if such it might be termed) of engraved gems presenting us
with similar devices: but it is ttnfounded, and a vulgar error. The pre-
sent agate represents neither a victim, ail altar, nor (as I am led to be-.
lieve) a priest: but certainly neither a victim DOl' an altar.
I might have found some diSietdty io maiataioing these opinions, had
the iniddle figure been a goat: but it will be 'Observed to have only the
head and fore-legs of that quadruped, and to terminate backward, in the
tail of a fish. It is the Capricorn o'f the Babylonian zodiac; and the
·mechanical figure beneath, is an early and rode attem'pt to shew; by means
of measured degrees, the portion of that zodiac which was occupied by
tbe stars of Capricorn.
If I mistake not, the most ancient division of the armilJary zones of the
sphere-but more especially of the ecliptic-was into sixty parts, which
would leave five for each of the signs. 1 am inclined to think that they
had but eleven zodiacal constellations, and that one of these occupied a
double space : however, I shall not insist on this, as Sir William Drum-
mond quotes the authority of Bailly in proof that "the (zodiacal) circle
was originally divided into sixty degrees; and consequently each sign of
the zodiac must have been divided into five parts.',..._Jn either event, five
must have belonged to Capricorn, as is displayed in this Babylonian en-
graving: and it may be worthy of curious remark, that the figuring of
this sign has undergone no other change in its transmission from the pri·
mitive astronomical ages to the present, than the addition of a sort of
heraldic flourish in his marine tail.
The curved figure bending over Capricorn from the right-band side,
and having the general form of a branch of the palm or date tree, I eon-
• Drummond on the Antiquity of the Zodiacs of Eaneh and Dendera, p. 42.
Digitized byGoogle
291
ceive to 'be an asAr.e detached from its central rod, or stamen,
and shewing, at its lower extremity, its mechanical means of being fasten-
ed thereto.
I think this engraving, speaking of it in the aggregate, is an b()rosco-
pical signet, originally belonging to a Babylonian citizen of the middle
class-one who was not sufficiently opulent to a cylinder with
the astral details of his nativity, bqt who was .same time opulent
enough .to display more than simply the under which he
was born; and accordingly we find that, his birth .wal!i qoctRrnal, the Moon
being·above the horizon, and posited .in the ascendallt Capricorn,
with the planet Saturn-for so I would interpret the aged figure on the
left band; but to produce here such engraved arguments as might sub-
stantiate that fact, would too much enhance the of a volume,
toward the defraying of which .I have no subscription; and per-
haps draw off too much of our attention from .the cylinper.
That fact is not material to our present purpose. M,y,chief reason
for introducing the signet in this place is, because it to cQnfirpi
the opinion I bad formed from re1lecting on the .speculfltions of ·Dr.
Kennicot, Sir William Drummond, and the each pf the
branches of one species of the BJ)tique astronomical instru.JD.epts,• was be-
lieved to represent a zodiacal sign, and that in the Babylonian cha,uhers
of imagery, each branch bent over, or toward, the sign to whicp it apper-
tained, as the present branch bends over Capricorn. I ;hav.e shewn this
device about four times the size of the origi.oal, which is. on an
agate.
From comparing tbe impression from Miss Porter's with the
outline of the Babylonian monument transmitted by Mr. Jlich, and with
your cylinder (Sir William) it would appear that the branches of the in-
strument were separable at pleasure from the central rod or. axis,-tbe
tipper side-notches of which indicate that there were socket receptacles
for the admission of as many of the said as any given occasion
for calculating or divining might require; while the hinges beneath shew
• One of these however, ia engraved on a carnelian, of which a representation and
explanation wiU be introduced further on in the present volume.
2M2
Digitized byGoogle
292
that the planets might there be taught to circumvolve, as the truths of
astronomical observation might demand.
The general reader will here recollect what is contained in my last
essay respecting the bt·anclles of .&:thiopia and Ezekiel, and, combining
it with the illustration derived from the prese.nt antiques, .will easily ap-
prehend that" putting the branch to their nose," which the prophet men-
tions with much of holy horror, was, in all probability, kissing, and
thus acknowledging the celestial influence of, that branch, or zodiacal
sign, under which each worshipper was born.
Perhaps the central or sustaining rod, as held by the Pontiffor AsluJpk,
on Mr. Rich's monument, might, without its collateral branches and
be ordinarily termed by the Hebrew word for a tree; and the
whole instrument,·as represented on your gem, an Ashre.• I ·am not
Hebraist enough to dispute that M,fVN might not also mean a grove-as
the word ashes in our own language (as well as many words in all lan-
guages) bas a double meaning: In this case the English Bible-translators
have only got hold of a pun by the wrong handle. But we shall presently
arrive at the hyperbole, or the inconsistency, that Ashres ·were erected
"under every green tree;" where the word in the Hebrew, which is equi-
valent to our word green, must have been intended to convey some con-
tradistinctive meaning.
If [ rightly construe this outline, it further accords with your antique
engraving, in suggesting, by comparison with the scale of the accompany-
ing figures, that these astronomical Ashres were about the height of a
man; dimensions which we may easily imagine to have been very conve-
nient, for fixing, unfixing, and moving round, as occasion might require,
those Jittle balls which branch off curvedly from the sustaining rod or
aXIS.
Of this antique, Mr. Rich writes, that it is "a stone two feet in length,
nineteen" (inches, [ should suppose) "in breadth, and nine inches in
ness; it is broken at the bottom. On the front is the sculpture, and on
the right side the inscription," (in the arrow-head character). At the
• The reader will allow me the present use of these Hebrew terms ,A,/,apla and A.shre, until
we can return to the diacuuion more amply furnished with proofs and authoritiu.
Digitized byGoogle
293
close of his memoir,* he adds, that" the true Babylonian antiques are
generally finished with the utmost care and delicacy."t
To you, Sir William, I need scarcely remark, that the relations which
words bear to each other; the growth and mutations of their meanings ;
and the corresponding expansion and changes of human ideas-where
they are distinctly traceable-are exceedingly curious. I know that on
this subject you feel the interest of an antiquary and a scholar, however
ridiculous or reprehensible may be the abuse of such matters. From
,the same Hebrew, or Oriental, word ,tVN (Asher) appears to have sprung
the two meanings, Advancement, and Blessed11ess. Julius Bate and Park-
hurst adduce numerous scriptural instances, where Asher means to pro-
ceed, or goforward, and others where it as evidently means to
Bate adds, that " the word literally signifying to proceed, or go forward,
shews whence they (the Hebrews) took the idea ofblessing, or happioess.":J:
Upon the nationality and the long endurance of those ideas among the
Jews, it is not necessary to dwell. What Jew has any feeling or notion
of happiness but that of fortunate advancement?
From what the Hebrew tVN (Ash), ,WN (Asher), and M,rt/N ( Ashre)
were originally derived, I thought when I read the substance of this
.Essay at the Royal Institution, that no modern scholar mentioned :
I further thought that Ashre had perhaps been at the first conferred on
the divining implements of the star-worshippers-like our word Orrery,
under similar circumstances-without reference to things antecedently
known and denominated, and I did not know that fZIN (A.sh) was the
etymon or radix of the word. As you did me the honour to be present,
Sir, you may perhaps remember my expressing myself to this purport;
but some questions were asked after the lecture, which stimulated my
* The .econd on Babylon, by C. J. Rich, Eeq.
t If the sculpture be thus carefully performed, I cannot but·wish that the public bad been
presented with something more than an outline, and that the bookseller's purse had been lr.u
consulted on an occasion so interesting as that of the publication of Mr. Rich'• writings on
Babylon. While the hieroglyphics and views contained in these elegantly written little volumes,
are treated with comparative neglect, the arrow·head inscriptions are elaborately copied. But
whete it tbe use of accumulating sucb inscriptions, until aome scholar •hall be found capable
of dP.cypbering them ? t Critica Hebr:ea, p. 54.
Digitized byGoogle
294
further thought and inquiries on·the subject, and 1 bad not long retired
home to my study, when the lovely form of FonteneiJe's• Marchioness
(whom I had fancied I saw in the lecture-room) appeared to eoter it, and
in reverie, the 'following dialogue took place, or seemed to take place,
between us.
·THE MARCHIONESS. You explained to us the name and nature of the
Sabrean divining implements, or star-blessers, as you called them: but I
should like to know whether 'they will bear catechising? and who gave
them that name? or bow 'they ·came by it? Could you not let us see
the connecting link, between the thing denominated, and the pre-existing
state of other.things that were already named at the time of the inYention
of those
.THE AuTHOR. Why, Madam,-your Ladyship heard what 'I said
about the Orreries; and Nature, you know, has her mysteries, and is al-
ways moreor less occult. She Jets you see causes, and she lets you seethe
consequences or effects of those causes. You generally·perceive that, in
time, or place, or both, they exist near to each other, and you learn in-
stinctively to connect·them : but Aer mode of connexion-tAat, whatever
it be-which binds the cause to the effect, she does not let you see. To
those whom she kindly admits to her theatre, she does not expose her
mystic wires.
,THE M..utcHIONEss. This may be all sufficiently satisfactory to you
but I own .I should like to be informed how you came to
know, or believe,· or suppos-e, that one of these I see
clearly enough that it must be a representation of a mechanical instru-
ment to answer some purpose or other-How you came to suppose that,
because tbe:ilebre·w·records have· made you acquainted with the circum-
stance, that the Sabreans of Canaan had .Ashre1, or Blessers, within their
sacred inclosures--and apparently an important article of the customary
furniture of those places-I should like to know, I say, how you came to
argue or infer, that they were such as is engraven on Sir William Bough-
ton's cylinder? This seems to me, not one of Nature's secrets, but one
of your own.
* See the convenations of thtalively and profound French pbiloeopher, " on the plurality of
worlds."
Digitized byGoogle
THE AuTHOit. That is my discovery, Madam-as I trust you will
finally grant; for I have not yet proceeded through more than half of my
proofs. Neither ueed I repeat to your Ladyship what J!appened to
Columbus, in the coffee-house at Madrid. I can produce you no Sabrean
hierophaot, or .A.slwph, who, having traditionally become acquainted with
such instruments as are in question between us, togetht>r with their uses
and proper ancient designation, and who having traced these matters up
to the fountain head,-or, to use your own catechetical figure, up to the
first sponsors of the Asbres-will vouch for my accuracy. It is thou-
sands of years since the Babylonian Ashaphim quitted the stage; and
the records which they left behind (in the arrow-head character) can no
longer be read :-the IE.>arned have long busied themselvt>s in vain in their
decyphering; but I assure you that I have no secrets, and you shall wil-
lingly see all my wirett. The Hebrew language bas done a little more for
us in the way of supplying that connecting ligament which your
ship is pleased to seem desirous of inspecting, than perhaps you have yt>t
been apprized of, or than I was aware of till I returned among my
brew radicals. Tht> more profound Hebraists inform us that, meaning
·is incorporated with every character of that extraordinary language, that
its elementary formsand sounds are significative ofthings, even when taken
severally; and it will presently be seen that these primitive or elementary
meanings, bear me out with regard to the word Ashre, when we come to
analyse it. Wherefore, and since Hebrew Ashres were erected for at
least five centuries anterior to the promulgation of tht> Decalogue,• it is
vt>ry likely that this is not an t>xotic word transplanted into the Hebrt>w,
from the vocabulary of Babylon or Arabia, but is a word common to the
three languages, (or three dialects of the same language), and that its pri-
mitive meaning is therefore still traceable-affording, as I am led to con-
ceivE.>, mutual support to my argument, and to the system of literal t>xpli-
cation of the learned D'Olivet.
According to this penetrating philologist, N ( A.leph)t means a prin-
ciple or centre, and fll (Shin), which when coupled with Aleph, forms
• This fact will he proved from the authority of the sacred Scriptures, in a aubaequeat page.
t Dr. Buchan favours me with the English eenae of thoee putagn from the rare and valu-
able French volume of D'Olivet, which unfold the primitive meaning of tbe Hebrew etymon in
question.
Digitized byGoogle
296
tuN (Ash), meaning a portion of a circle with a radius-no noun could
be more essentially expressive of the meaning, or thing, which it is in-
tended to convey, or represent, when mathematically traced back to the
primary element8 of nomenclature; and by reflection, no diagrammatic
figure, more illustrative than that of our Ashre, of this primitive meaning.
So that Ash signifies a power emanatingfrom a cent1·e; and in this empha-
tical and original sense, fVN enters into the composition of the very first
word of the Hebrew bible .M'fVN,:J (Ber-ash-it) which has been translated
"In the beginning," but where, In his principiati1lg, or originating, energy,
would be the more abstract, sublime, and correct, rendering. Blessing
might also be understood to be expressed or implied ; in w.hich case the
recondite meaning of this member of the first sentence of the Hebrew
cosmogony, would run, "In the principle of his blessing energy, God
created," &c.; but it is yet more likely that this latter is the derived, and
central eneTK!J of causation, the primitive, meaning-applicable not only
to the commencement of Genesis, but to the Sabrean Ashres also. And
now I may venture to express my hope that your Ladyship is at least as
well pleased as those who get behind the scenes at the Opera.
The Marchioness did me the honour to reply, with her usual gracious-
ness, as she took leavt'-" Much better"-and to repeat nearly what she
had said to Fontenelle, that "the more Aimple, plain, and easy, things
were rendered, to her they appeared the more admirable:·•
The term Ashres, then, my dear Sir 'Villiam, (for the Lady is gone),
meaning, in the language of Canaan, and that of the Hebrews, Blessers,
or oracJes of fortunate advancement, was at first conferred as a proper
denomination on the Sabrean divining instruments, and conferred on the
very principles upon which the Hebrew language itself is constructed ;
and therefore, as it now appears, with far more of technic propriety than
our word Orrery on astronomical instruments of a somewhat similar
con8truction.
Nor do such instruments, or the use of this primitive term, appear to
·have been confined to the part of the world of which we are treating. We
read of mystic Ashes among the Phrygians and among the Greeks. I
believe there was one within the precincts of the palace of the Trojan
* " Plurality of Worlda," first evening.
Digitized byGoogle
297
Priam. And wliat were the vocal trees and groves of Dodona, the:most
ancient of the Oracks of Greece? It is surely more easy to believe that
the trees were artificial, than that their responses were audible. The
mast of the Argo, fabled to have been cut in this real or fictitious
is fabled to have been oracular.
But, what is perhaps more extraordinary, more true, and more to our
immediate purpose, the Edda of the Swedes treats of these mystic trees
under the term .A.sAters. How they got so far northward, and how
term of designation came to be so modified, as to point, with the Hebrew
language, directly to the stars, heaven best knows. It seems mysteriously
to shadow forth an ancient connexion of some sort, between Asia and the
north of Europe. But even so lately as "the eighth century of
tianity, it was enacted by Luitprand, king of the Lombards, that whoever
paid any adoration, or performed any incantation to a tree (probably one
of these mystic Ashters is meant) should be punished by fine." •
Those who have fancied the Trojan .A.sA to be no other than one of the
elegant trees now called by that name, would perhaps not have done
amiss to have satisfied themselves whether that species of tree is of Phry-
gian growth? If they are-whether it is likely that Homer would have
mentioned a circumstance so common, as the growth or existence of a
common ash?-Whether such trees did not at first obtain their distinctive
name, from being the kind ofwood ofwhich the mystic AsAters, or .AsAru,
were usually constructed-from its baviug been preferred-for the same
reason that it is still preferred by wheelwrights-namely, because it
hard and durable?
It seems not unlikely too, that the Latin word for a star, and that which
now expresses the science of the stars, have grown from this oriental root,
and with them has grown-an earlier shoot in point of time-Aster-oth or
AsA-ter-oth, as a cognomen or title of the Moon: literally the star both of
Signs and of Blessing, and understood, apparently, as the star qfblu.ed
signs. These meanings, with many other of a relative nature, and these
references to their origin, appear to me not yet to have obtained due atten-
.• R. P. Knight'a "Inquiry,•• &c. p. 55, on lbe authority of Paul Deacon. de Leg. Longobard.
2N
Digitized byGoogle
298'
tion &om tbe sdolars; aad contribute ro make me wish that I had been
one myself.
You perceive, Sir, ihat the ancient idea of Blessing, or of being blessed,
which appears.to have prevailed throughout the east, and to have reached
also to the north, wasfortunate advancement. Hence the Sabmans of
Babylon aod Canaan came to regard the coustellations and planets,
weiiCh were seen or. fancied to be ever moving, as moving to some earthly
purpose ; and therefore (by an easy and flattering step, which it required
amall persuasioll from the priesthood to teach them to take) as Blessers,
or adYancers of fortune or happiness. They were at first venerated as
the lips, and subsequ.eutly as the ctUUes, of happiness :-of terrestrial•
happiness, I mean, fOI' (as is obHerved in a former essay) there exists no
evidence that these Sabreans bad attained to the knowledge of the doc-
tr.ioe of immortality : and notwithstanding that the occasional configura-
tions of the celestial phenomena, would awaken feaa
·s-Fear is the ne-
cessary concomitant,-the inseparable companion, of Hope: and Super-
stition was but the more attached to its Blessers, ()n account of this very
agitation of contra excitement;. and the more disposed to acquiesce in,
aud cherish, a denomination which kept the high lights on the favourable
and flattering parts. of. the picture.
We will now turn, if you. please, to tJome of thoHe texts of the Bible.
whiab. by the EngliRh translat.ors have been thought to mean groves of
sacr-ed trees; but which, aR l have ventnred to assume, cannot in many
places have thitJ significatiQn, and it may therefore be more than
pected, ought not in any. For, on the other hand, if Bleuers, under-
stood.as astral signs offorttm4te advancement, wiU suit and adapt them-
st-1¥es to the context, in all those places where in the Hebrew bible Wt)
read Ashre, or Ashire, this consistency of co-operative meaning will. be
strongly in favour of our supposing that these.words ought to have been
thus• ren.der.ed. Bot of this-not knowing, and apparently not caring
to know, the localities. of Canaan, or to dwell upon them in any other
• I observe that Michaelis ia of this opinion• . He says, "the subordinate deitiea too were
worshipped, not with a view to obtain from them the happineu of a future life, but merely
temporal benefits and ble11ings."-Comm. on tl•e Laws of Most.,, Art. 83.
Digitized byGoogle
than that sort of general way to which -vague notions of odium might at·
tach-the translators appear not to have been solicitous, or tlot able; to
make satisfactory sense. There was light shining in these texts, but their
darkness perceived it not, or chose not to appear to perceive it.
Surely, my dear Sir, we should no longer, as antiquaries, shut our
eyes; but use the chrystal spectacles which you have .brought home.
And we may the rather anticipate such a result, and that people will
look for themselves, as former objections·to the Hebrew term which is in
question, no longer exist: I mean the objections which rigiti and 1101'&
fleeting devotees might in their exclusiveness, oppose, to a construction of
the words which might be thought favourable to the superstitions which
it was wished to root out; for Grove, carried with it no such promise or
implication of Hebrew happiness, as Blessers, or stellar eigns offortunate
advancement. Astrology too is become obsolete. And he who shall be
able, may now freely and fearlessly send a piercing ray of thought to the
very heart of the subject.
Let us therefore examine, at least some few, of tho&e texts wherein the
idolatrous meaning of the word AsAre is more evidently co_
ncerned, and
ascertain, if we can, and as far as those instances will carry us, whether
the " of the English translation of the early Scriptures, ought
not to be superseded by Blu1ers, considering that word as the synonyme
of celestial dispensers of good fortune?
But first, let us observe, that in several passages of the Psalms, and
in the book of Job, the word :,rvN, Aslaer, or some modification thereof,
occurs; and occurs wha-e it would be egregious nonsense to render it by
"Grove, or any thing relating thereto; and accordingly, in these places
it is not so rendered. For example--in the beginning of the Jst. Psalm,
we are not presented with, Engrovetl " is the man that walketh not," &c.
-as a consistent adherence to the system of the tra01dators would have
required : but we are presented with the genuine meaning of the word-
:namely, " Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsels of the un-
godly." In plainer terms, or, to bring the matter home, ;IS to those an-
cient Hebrew minds to which the psalm was addressed-Prosperity, or
2N2
Digitized by Google
r:
; '
advancement in ·good fortune, awaits the man that walketh not in the
coun.
se)s of the ungodly.
In Deuteronomy, ch. xvi. ver. 21, "Thou shalt not plant thee a-
Grove of any trees,"-say the common Bibles; but, on consulting Julius
Bate, I find that this text should have been translated, "Thou shalt not
fiz up an A1hreof any wood ;"-or else (for between these two
this learned Hebraist expresses himself with some doubt) it should be,
"Thou shalt not fix up an Ashre under an!/ tree,-near unto the altar• of
the Lord thy God."
Here, since it would not be easy to assign or imagine any sound reason
why natural trees should be thought to be so incompatible with sanctity,
as not ·to be.permitted to grow-where we know that they sometimes did
grow-near an ·altart of Jehovah ;-if an absurdity be ilot admitted, an
hiatus is left in the ·meaning of the sentence, which the idea of an astral
dispenser of good fortune_..:.a blesser-an instrument to answer
some of the purposes for which celestial spheres, planetaria, and armil-
lary machines, are now ·used, completely fills and this meaning is, in
the present case, rendered the more ·credible and evident. by the denun;.
ciation which follows a few verses afterward, against those who shall pre-
sume to worship the Sun, Moon, or any of the host of heaven.
In the course of the mysterious and prophetic blessings uttered hy
Moses just before he ascended mount Nebo, the word As/we is frequently
repeated; but the passages are so variously rendered by Julius Bate, by
Dr. Geddes, by Mr. Bellamy, and in the Vulgate, that I dare not trust
myself in the literary labyrinth. If the English reader should refer to
the 33d chapter of the Deuteronomy of the common Bible, or of any or
air of the above, he will of course make his own comparisons; the He-
* That might not fix them up elsewhere-in places that might not be esteemed escep-
tionable,-is not espresaed.
t " An oak that waa by the aanctuary of the Lord" il mentioned in Joshua, cb. niv. ver.26.
with reverence : and from cb. xxii. ver. 29, we learn thal the altar of Jehovah wu near tbil
sanctuary. Nor could the turpentine-tree (according to Geddes) or oak, of Mamre, have beea
far from the altar erected by Abraham.
Digitized byGoogle
30l
brew scholar will refer to the .original text. But :neither will omit to
remark, in the blessing invoked by Moses on the descendants of Joseph,
who had himself been a great " Diviner,., the expressions,-according to
Bate (who wrote without the least knowledge of such brimching instru-
ments as are figured on the Boughton cylinder),-the expressions,-" the
precious things of Aeaven; the precious fruita brought forth by the Sun,
and the precious things thrust forth by the Moons." And when the pro-
phet arrives at the future destiny of the tribe of Asher, whose name is
the very synonyine of blessedness-the critics will still less omit to re:-
mark, that the parable or metaphor employed by Moges, appears to be
one of these very machines. " In oil"-predicates the sacred penman-
" In oil shall he dip bisfoot; of iron and ln·ass shall be his bars.'' At
Jeas·t, I may venture to call an intelligible meaning, which is more
than can be said of the lame explanations of this text, ·of the generality
of annotators on the Bible. But in fact, the name of this patriarch emits
a strong and unextinguishable light; which falls directly on our subject,
and completely puts out their glimmerings.
It will be observed that these machines have, each of them, but a single
foot; which, bearing a considerable incumbent weight, the.ease of its
motions must have been assisted by oil, as is still usual where heavy
machinery turng on a pivot; and which would be yet more necessary in
the case of iron or brass bars, than where the Ashres were constructed
of a Jess ponderous material.
" Of iron and brass shall be big bars," shews that the inferior species
of these machines were of some inferior material, presumptively of-wood;
·which corroborates the scriptural accounts of the mode of destruction of
certain Ashres, at which we shall sooil arrive. Or, it may have been that
the upright pillar, or stem or axis, of the superior sort of Ashres, were
of wood, and their "bars," or curved branches, of metal; while ofthe
inferior sort, only the joints and sockets, and probably the foot, were of
metal.
And this blessing of Moses, is in strict, and very apposite, conformity
:with what we have previously read of the patriarch A.sAer himself; for
when he was born, we read that his mother, Leah, exulting over her
Digitized byGoogle
S02
childleAs and less fortunate sister, exclaimed, "Ah f : am -I-the
daughters will call me blused. And she called her·son's name 'A#Mr."
It may here be noticed, that according to onr Bibles, twoHebrew.
should occur in this sentence, which are nearly·synonymous; ,.,.::l(lila-
rvch), and ,tUM (.A.1Aer), Happy and but we say in a geberal
way that, to be blessed is to be happy. ·Fortunate advancement:ldfimls
us the ruiddle term. He whose fortune is advanced, is made happy;: llap-
piness being the sentiment resulting from fortunate acbancement,-as is .
here expressed by Leah. Yet these words happy and ble•ed are, io col-
loquial intercourse, occasionally used for each other; or, as if they were
precisely synonymous: and so they are in the Scriptures,· idiom baYing
been appatently the chief guide of preference.•
Proceeding onward, we next find as follows, in the book of Jwlses,
ch. iii. ver. 7, "And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of:the
Lord [Jehovah] and forgat the Lord their God, and served BaAlim;
the Groves," says the common Bible; but and .AsWin&," are the
Hebrew words in this place; whicb, unless I am mistaken, means that
they served· the Host of heaven, regarded as Blessers; of which the
Ashres (or Ailurim, to use the·Hebrew plural termination) were tbe re-
presenting signs or symbols. It seems scarcely sense to say tbat they
1erved the Groves; as groves at the most, could only be supposed to· be
places-not objects-of devotion. The Groves might indeed have eerved
the apostate Israelites ; but how could the Israelites have served planta-
tions of trees ?-reverentially, I.mean, as they served·BaAlim. Whether
.BaAlim (or the Lords) in this are meant for the two greater lumi-
naries, spoken of conjunctively? or were the planets, which Astrology
still occasionally designates "Lords ?"-we will not stop to dise1iss..at
present.
In Judges, ch. vi. ver. 26, 26, the Lord Jehovah says to Gideon, "Tbt'ow
down the altar of Ba61 that thy father hath, and cut down the Alltre that
is by it."-" And build an altar to the Lord, upon the top of this rock.
*Their meaning ia identified by Bate (seep. M ofhis" Critica Hebrea") and byParkbunt.
The latter aays of ,,::1 (in p. 84 of his Lexicon) "To blm, as God doth man, -or a·•uJMrior
bia inferior : To giYe, promiee, or with, him luJppintu," &c.
Digitized byGoogle
303
.-.....And. take tbe:secood bullock, and:offer·a bumts&aifiee·with the wood
of the Asbre which thoa shalt cut down."
28. " Ancl when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold
the' altar of Bail was cast do.wn, and the Asbre was cut down that was
1Jy it; and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that wae wilt."
-Verse 30 repeats, "t&e altar ofBadt and the· As/we that .was by it."
Now had the Asbre been a grove of trees, the probability is, a11d tbe
rote of literary propriety would be-that, 38 an. altar, (a rude pile of
stones. in those days) is a far less considerable· thing tb8o a .grove-the
altar.would 'have been described as being b!J the grove1 and not the grove
by the altar. It is true, Gideon had ten servants at his command ; but
then, there was an -altar of stone to break down; another to build-upon
the· point of a rock, as it would seem; and· a bullock to sacrifice. And
all appea-rs to have been clandestinely and completely performed in one
night, before " the men of the city arose," and they " arose earl!J in the
mor.uiug." This seems to be work enough to occupy the· time, without
cuttiag dctwo· a grove of trees also. Reflect on the practicability of ten:
meR- secrec•y. cutting down a grove of trees-even a small grove-and!
having the ceremonials of a burnt sacrifice to. attend to ; an altar to'
erect; and a bullock to kill and to consame-all in a single night, after:
olhel' men had retired. to r.est, and before their early rising in the morn-
And .this they performed with undeteeted cautiGn. -Again, the quan-
tity .of .wood .contained in such a machine as l-hue supposed an Ashre
to be, would be about enough to light up a sacrifice, whereas (it cannot be
necessary .to insist, that) the wood contained in.a grove of trees would be--
far too much. That I may not weary attention here, or seem episodical,.
where I may he expected to be argomenU4tive, I pass over a few scriptural·.
mentions of the Asherim that are either ()f less determinate character, or
where.they are mingled with the introduction of other Hebrew terms of
unsettled meaning-in order to come to an anchor before it be dark.
. In the first book of Kings, ch. xviii. are mentioned (in l'er. J9), "the
Prophets of. the Groves." In the Hebrew bible-Prophets.e' tiutAshe-
rim-." four. hundred; w.hioh eat at Jezebel's table." I may here observe,
that it is far more likely that the Sabmau host, whose sileut and symbo-
lical oracles ·the Ashres, should have prophets, than· that groves·
Digitized by Google
304
fJhould. We can easily imagine an office of divination, or to
belong to prophets (that is, to priests assuming that designation, and
those pretensions) of the Host of Heaven: circumstances indeed compel
us to this inference; we know (since the divining instruments were not
vocal, but visible) that such an office most have existed, and we. find
that it did exist, among the star-worshipping nations-an office, which
having constant reference to future accomplishment, might cause them to
be termed prophets, or see-ers; for according to Isaiah they " did pup.
and mutter." But what could be the office of four hundred prophets of
groves? What prophetic office could have been attached to groves of
trees? requiring too the Jninistration of 400 within a single city?
In fine,-the Ashres (or Asherim) as we have seen, were regarded
as Blessers ; and the Ash-aphim were those who officially declared the
blessings bestowed by the Astral deities, whom Herodotus were at
first termed " disposers." Sir William Drummond repeatedly terms an
.A.ilulpll, an Astrologer: Julius Bate says, "the word Ashapbim is often
construed Astrologers, though it rather means wise men, who were to
explain the mysteries of religion," which is in fact and in the present
case, the same thing, notwithstanding that Bate, being ignorant of the
ancient existence ofastrological machines, or divining implements, among
the Canaanites-might not know it. The Critica Hebrrea also traces the
relation between .A..slulp/1 .and the Hebrew word MDfll (SiuJph), for Lip.
And the whole philology is ably, and very exactly, borne out, by the more
profound erudition of D'Oiivet. We have already attended to the
of the first syllable of .A..sllaph, according to the literal construction of
this great linguist; and Aph, says, is a root constituted of the
sign ofpower, united to that of speech.•
In the 2d book of Kings, ch. xvii. ver. 8, &c. the history of the aberra-
tionli of Israel under king Hoshea, is· related (for the second time):
"They walked in the statutes of the heathen whom the Lord Jehovah
cast out from before them" (namely the Canaanites), "and they set them
up images and .A..sAerim in every high hill and under_
every green .
16. "And left all .the commandments of the Lord.their God, and
* He who would 1ttuly this subject, and become acquainted with D'Olint'a amplification&·
of meanings, may consult .his vocabulary of Hebrew radicals with Jreat advantage.
Digitized byGoogle
306
made them molten .images, even two calves ; a11d made an Ashre and
worshipped all the host of heaven, and .served BaAl. And they caused
their sons and daughters to pass through fire, and used diviMticm." ·
Here it is observable tstly, that Ashres were not image1; for" they
set them up images and Ashres :" which Ashres are also mentioned con-
junctively with the host of heaven, as if they had been the necessary and
ostensible agents, or customary instruments, of the ·adoration paid to the
stars. 2dly, That the Ashres were not groves, or they could not have
been set up under every green tree. Nor would" any Hebrew phrase tan-
tamount to" set up;' which is here applied at ouce to the Asherim and
statues, have been applicable to groves at all; since trees ·are ofgradual
growth, and are not removable after they have attained age and dignity
sufficient to entitle them to belong to a grove; for we should not here
think of compromising; or bringing down " the pomp of groves,'' to the
paltriness of shrubberies. 3dly, That the Scriptures, on other less impor-
tant occasions, are more specific with regard to trees; mentioning oaks,
cedars, acacias, &c. Is it not singular that they ·never condescetld to
mention designedly, and that they never incidentally name or hint,· the
species that have been supposed to overshadow the idolatrous Dru.ids of
Canaan, and confer gloomy horror on their abominable rites what
strange perversion should this supposed gk>om, which must have exclud-
ed the sight of the stars, hine been conceived to be instrumental to their
worship? Again, Sir, when we come to consider the rapid succession of
pious and profane Hebrew kings ; the short reigns of some of them ; the
·consequent alternations of the national faith of the Abrahamic race·; and
those successive destructions and replantations of the sacred·groves, that
have been supposed to be historicaiJy reported,-of how very .·quick
growth must these real or imaginary groves have been ! Trees do not
grow thus ·rapidly in the Holy Land: or in any land.
The Rev. G. Townsend, in his learsed dissertation "on the Origin,
Progress, &c. of Idolatry,',. writes that, "The origin of Grove-w01·ship
bas never been exactly ascertained." How should it? It has never
been because it could never be salisfactorily traced back-
ward through these remote ages and nations. In short, the proposition,,
* ClailsicaJ Journal, No. XLVL
2o
Digitized byGoogle
that grove.worship exi1led among the Babylonians and Canaanites, has
been erroneously taken for granted in a general way; and when you
come to particulars, the illusion vanishes. There wu no such thing as
"grove-worship," as I shall continue to shew; for I believe the prejudice
to be deep--rooted, although the groves were not.
Fourthly. The phrase, under every green tree, ("They set them up
groves under every greeo tree"), is used doubtlessly to shew the
frequency of these Ashres, and bow the land was polluted with them-
but still,-used by the Hebrew writers without such literal and palpable
inconsistency, as would be settiug up agrove Uflder a grteJt ttW. Now an
orrery, or armillary machine, such as our Sablean engraving preeents,
u11ed for purposes of divination,-completely rectifies the misnomer in
theae texts, where the retention of the word grove in its ordinary aceep-
tatioo, is at best perplexing, not to say absurd ; and its denomination
coming from the same etymon with blelser, seems to explain tDiy the
were used in fortune-telling, or "divination," as it is e:xpreued in
the above passage from tbe 2nd book of Kings. Is there any other thing,
having rational pretension to be esteemed an Asbre, that was susceptible
of being ,set up under a verdant tree? Putting the supposition of St.
Jerome out of the question, I know of none.
In the same 2nd book of Kings, chap. xxi. we read that" Manasseh
(ofJudea) reared up altars for BaAl, and nwle an Aabre, (as Ahab and
other of the kings both of Israel and Judea had done before him) ad
worshipped till the lwst ofheaver•, and eerved them"-the mention of the
Asbre being apparently introduced, as affording the customary means of
manifesting veneration for the host.
" And he built altars for all the host of heaven.
"And be made his son paas through fire, and observed times.
" And be set a grava (or carved) image of tiM Ashre tal ie 1uMl
made, in the ofwhich the Lord bad said to David and to Solomon
his son, In this house and Jerusalem which I have chosen out of all the
tribes of Israel, will I put my name for ever."
The Ashre and the host of heaven are here again conjunctively men·
tiooed, as if the former h•d heeD regarded as instrumental to the worship
of the stars. The apostate king reared up altars for BaAl ; made an
Digitized byGoogle
301
Ashre, and worshipped the host of BeaYen. The Sablean Ashre appears
to have been erected within the J;lreciocts of the temple, where the altan
also were built: bet beside this-perhaps immovable-armillary
which for the purposes of divination, Maoasseh had constructed in the
courts of the temple, be had also a small copy, or "graven image," of
the Ashre within to assist in the celebration of thoee 8abaean
rites, which were performed in the interior during his idolatrous reign, and
which are described by Ezekiel ; for there can be no rea10nable doubt
that the idolatries whicla the prophet aaw ia vision on the banks of the
Cbebar, were those with which tbe temple at Jerualem bad really beeO
polJuted.
Before we proceed farther, 111y dear Sir, let us remiud our&elPes in
passing, that the beautiful and interesting opal which bas eoabled us to
·resuscitate this lost scriptural meaaing, is a graven (as I have
hitherto supposed) of au Asbre, and waK found in _
the very country-of
Canaan-which was the scene of this ancient : but that whicla
Manasseb introduced into the temple, we must of course suppose to have
beeo of much larger dimensions: and judging from ulterior circum-
stances, it appears to have been a can·iog of wood.
ThE' observing of times has by the scriptural commentators been geae-
rally, and I should suppose justly, understood to meaa a superstition by
oo weans uncommon, and which oae might wish bad been confined to
the ancient aad the heathen world-namely, llOt to undertake any enW-
prize of mGment, but at a fortunate conjuncture of the bea:venly bGdies,
which the Ashr.es afforded (as tbey Npposed) the means of ascertaining.
W.e know tilat this of superstition is still sum.ciently prevalent
among the eastern nations. Malcolm, Morier, Ouseley, Porta---:aJI the
oriental at&elt it : even in the west of Europe, it is is some
places scarcely abolished. And we know that before printiag •·as in-
-ve.:&ed, and bE'fore tables of the planetary movements were circulated,
that instruments must have beeu used for this pRrpose still more titan at
present. That a nation of star-worshippers, then-a aation too which
could build navies, and erect such edifices as the temple of the Tyrian
Hercules, and that of Solomon, were without at.tch iostrum.ents, is scarce-
)y a tenable suppositi011.
2o2
Digitized byGoogle
308
-- We soon arrive at another of those alternations with which the mind
of the Hebrew populace was, in those remote agt>S, so much and so fre--
quently distractt>d by the piety and impiety of their kings.
In chapter xxiii. verse 4, &c. we read that young Josiah commanded
to be brought "forth out of tlu temple ofthe Lord all the vessels that
were made for BaAl and for the ·Ashre, and for all the host of heaven,
and he burned them without Jerusalem the fields of Kidron, and car.
ried the ashes of them unto Bethel."
." And he brought out.tlce .A.shre from the lunue of the Lord, without
Jerusalem, unto the brook Kidron, and burned it at the brook Kidron,
and stamped it small to powder."
Could this Ashre have been a grove, as the coinmon Bible expresses?
The thin·g is physically impossible.
In the next verse we read that "women wove hangings for the Ashre.'.'
But thinking people will naturally inquire, of what materials could
the sacred vessels and the Ashres that were thus destroyed have been
constructed? I answt>r (as I have before intimated) of metal and of
wood, but chiefly the latter. When works of stone are spoken of, as the
altars erected by Manasseh, the text does not inform us tbat fire was
·employed in their destruction, but says that they were beatm down and
broken, and the dust cast into the brook Kidron. Some of the vestrels
mentioned were in all probability libation vases of metal-perhaps of
potters' earth, and the divining instruments, as we should naturally infer,
would consist of a mixture of metal and wood, the wood greatly predo.
.minatiog, which when burned, would produce "asht>S," and would be
susceptible of being "stamped small to powder," by which I understand,
trampling with .the feet, as an external and public manifestation of the
utter contempt and detestation in which the Sabrean Asherim were held,
by young and zealous icouodast, who-simpleton !-had not the least
taste for, or foresight of, our antiquarian researches. It would appear
that the king, Josiah himself, stamped; and that he himself cut down
those sun-images of the 2d book of Chronicles, of which I shall pre.
sently treat.
The Ashre, however, previous to its destruction, had been contained
in the interior of the holy tt>mple, and could not thert>fore have been a
Digitized byGoogle
309
grove of trees : beside,-women wove hangings for the Ashre·; would any
visionary ever have thought ofany thing so irrelevant as weaving hangings
for a grove of trees ? I interpret that these hangings were either embroi-
dered with figures of the constellations, or were simply covering drape-
ries used, as we now cover an armillary Kphere, to defend it from dust.
But the former is by far the most likely, as suck hangings, when disposed
around the Ashre by the hand of science, would give emphatic sigoift-
cance to the curved movements of the branches of the machine, and
form a chamber of imagery, within which the Sabtean aspirant might
study, or the Ashaph might appear to predict, with peculiar advantage.•
In a later age, when the poem entitled " the Phenomena" ofAratus, was
introduced at Rome by Cicero and other leading characters, we read,
that it became·the polite amusement of the Roman ladies " to work the
celestial forms in gold and silver, on the most costly hangings:". and this
bad previously been done at Athens, where concave ceilings were also
emblazoned with the heavenly figurest under the auspices of Antigonus
Gonatas.
Another short instance which goes to prove, not only that the Ashres
were not arrangements of growing trees, but were manufactured by the
band of man, shall conclude what I think it necessary to offer on this
topic. In "the burden of Damascus," as sung by the prophet Isaiah, we
read, "At that day [of threatened desolation] shall a man look to l1is
Maker."-" And he shall not look to the altars-the work ·of his Mnds;
neither shall he respect tluJt wkick kis finger.st luJve made-either the
(.Askrts) or the "S••images." Here the Ashres and Sun-images
are both designated as being ofhuman fabrication. They are.conjunctivtly
• Pukhurst goes so far as to suppose the &th• of early scripture to have been a kind of pa-
vilions, inclosed by means of hangings; which, of the inferior temples, or capel/4, of Canaan,
wu probably true, and be refers to the text cited above from :uiii. Rings for an example that
the O"l'tl were " hanging• to form a receptacle for an idol ; cruwpie1, or some things of that
kind."-Htb. Ltz. p. 88.
t A distinction seems here to be intended between the work of l•andl and that ofjingtrs.
To pile up 11tonea ia designated as the work of bands ; to fabricate works consisting.of smaller
parts, and calling for more ingenuity, as the work of fingers. .
Digitized byGoogle
310
mentioned as they present tlaemselves in our graven image; and they are
again conjunctively mentioned, as if they were usually to be found toge-
ther, by the same prophet, .in the text, "The Ashres and Sun-images
-
shall not stand up."
This evidence appears to me to be sufficient in quantity, and sufficiently
'convincing, to establish my propositiou, that the Hebrew Asherim were
not groves, but were the divining implements of the Sabreans of Canaan.
Yet I cannot pass here what is contained in the 74th Psalm, and in a pas-
'Sage of Genesis, not yet adverted to ; and I ought perhaps to have be-
stowed earlier notice on those O'lOI"'T, or Sun-images, of the Old Testa-
ment, which tally so exactly with the engraved Sun-image of our cylin-
dm-, and with others which I shall subsequently exhibit.
Those scriptural Sun-images, as we have seen, sometimes accompa-
nied Aikr.u (as we cannot easily imagine they would have done, bad the
.Asherim been Grooves); and sometimes they surmounted what has been
erroneously translated "High-places;" but which, in the Hebrew Bible,
is written MOJ. In Leviticus, chap. xxvi. ver. 30, we read, "I will de-
stroy your high-places" ( Bamu) "and cut down your In
the 2d book of Chronicles, chap. xxxiv. ver. 4, "They brake down the
altars of Baalim in his (king Josiah's) presence, and the Sun-images, tluit
t.eere on ll.igk above tkem, ke cut down." And in Ezekiel, chap. vi. ver. 3,
"Your Sun-images shall be bro.ken."
The 74th Psalm alJudes to a somewhat later period of the Hebrew
history, having been written apparently at Jerusalem, during the season
of the captivity. Between the Bible translation and that of our common-
prayer-book, 1 may be permitted to observe in passing, there is so much
difference, and at the same time so much obscurity of meaning in certain
passages, that we may reasonably doubt their correctness; yet is
evident allusion to the sacred furnitut·e of the temple, and vivid glimmer-
.ings (not to say more) of resemblance between some of _
its descriptiooH,
and the divining implements (the star-blessers) of the Sabreaus. I copy
the following from the Bible version. The Psalmist, lamenting the dila-
pidated state of the holy places of Jerusalem, and particularly of the
temple, says, "The enemy bath done wickedly in the sanctuary"-But
Digitized byGoogle
311
I should first have observed, that in the 9th chapter of the 1 book of
Chronicles (vv. 28, 29), we read that certain of the Levites had the cba?ge
of the ministering and that some of them were appointed to
" oversee the -yessels and all tAe instrumenta oftAe laftCtuary-.•'
"The enemy (says the author) bath done wickedly ia the sanetuar,y.
Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up their
ensigns for signs"--
But Bate renders this latter member of the sentence probably with
more fidelity; certainly with more pertinence. He writes, u they set up
tAeir signs, for signs:',. that is to say, the Babylonians, after subjugating
Judea, had appointed Chaldean priests to preach to the Jews, which the
Hebrew psalmist chooses to stigmatise by the term roaring; as amongst.
ourselves, we occasionally hear, in the way of opprobrium, of the bawling
or roaring of certain sectaries, who set up their signs for signs-that is
to say, who would substitute energy of lungs, for energy ofreligious sen-
timent.t And these Chaldeans set up their own signs in Jerusalem, in-
stead of the signs which Israel had been accustomed to venerate mark-
ing the mutations of the seasons; which, however, were still
for according to the author of Genesis, the stars were " for signs and for
and in fact there never were and ne'fer will be, any other, that
will bear to be compared with these in point of efficiency.
What may at the first 'fiew seem more extraordinary, especially to
those who read Bibles as the victims of the Holy Inquisition were taught
to tell beads:f:-these astral signs were represented, or their movements
• Critica Hebrma, p. 382. Not that it teem• to be o{ much importance wltic:b fli .a.eae
terms is used in this place : the enaigns or military atandarda of tbe atar-worsbippiog nationa,
being believed to have conaiated of astral aigns.
t In the close of the same 74th Psalm, Jehovah is invocated u followa : "Arise, 0 God!
. plead thine own cause. Remember how the foolish men reproach thee daily. Forget not the
voice of thine enemies. The tumult of those that rise up againat thee increueth continually."
t This class of Bible readen, unfortunately for tbe best interestl of religion and eociety, ie
Yery numeroua. They read without being impreued with any particular meanlni; without in-
quiry;_ and without caring to inquire. Their reading is the mere occupation of indolent minds;
and some of them have the complacency, or the foRy, to Oatter themselves that in such Bible·
reading, there ia more than in honeat inquiry.
Digitized byGoogle
312
were geometrically demonstrated, by HEBREW AiAres of the samegeneral
nature with those of the Sabreaos! Yes, indeed they : startling as
to some the assertion may appear. I might call the description of Solo-
moo's temple, and the prototype which we must suppose to have existed,
of that revolvi.ng machinery which accompanied Ezekiel's cheorubim, to
bear me witness; but I rather choose here to cite from the Pentateuch;
and in Genesis, chap. xxi. ver. 23, we read that ABRAHAM erected
.AaAre.
It is fortunate for my present explication, for antiquarian science, and
for the final interests of truth, that this fact is plainly and indisputably
recorded. And with it is recorded how and why this came to be done
without the least stain or reproach on the piety of the. patriarch. Re-
Quite the contrary. "Abraham set up an Ashre,,.-or, accord-
ing to the common Bible, "planted a grove,-in Beer-sheba, calkd
tAere upon tAe name oft'Ae Lord, tAe everlastiRg GodI"
It was lawful,t then, in the days of Abraham, and no impeachment of
the patriarchal monotheism, to erect or plant an Asbre; and doubtless it
was also Iawful to use the Ashre, or instrument 1:10 erected, in
computations, provided it was done.with due reverence and submis-
sion to that great superioteodjng cause Qf ALL, whom Abraham invoked at
Beer-sheoba.
Neither Moses expressly prohibited suck use; though. it is not
clear that be ever promoted the ereoction of otheor Hebrew Asherim, than
within his own tabernacle. At the place where, and where only, sacri6ce
might be religiously offered up, it seems likely that all orthodox informa-
tion would be appointed to be obtained. We have before noticed the
words of this great leogislator, when at theo foot of mount Nebo, he finally
* This anecdote appears to confirm the averment of Josephus, that Abraham was learned in
the science of the stars. Josephus adds, that be instructed the Egyptian.s in astronomy; but
this it is not ao easy to suppose.
t Does any reader object here that the Hebrew laws were not yet promulgated? Michaelis
baa shewn that laws of custom, derived traditionally from the usage• of their ancestry, were in
Coree among the patriarchs. But who has ever questioned, ur wbo will now question. tbat in
wbat concerned religion, Abraham drew from the fountain bead?
Digitized byGoogle
313
blessed the tribe ofJoseph, (who had himself been a great diviner), and
that ofAsher; and Josephus, Origen, and others, have thought that astro-
nomical considerations .were, not out of his view, in fabricating the sacred
candelabrum with its seven planetary fires. We may further observe,
that, in declaiming against the idolatries of Canaan, he does not abso-
lutely proscribe altars and Asherim; but says, " Ye shall destroy their
altars, and break down their images, and cut down tlleir Asherim."
The stars-the "lights iu the firmament of heaven" were by the omni-
potent voice of the Elohim himself, appointed to be " for signs and for
seasons, and for days and years." You (Sir William) will not think I
advert to this text too often, when you reflect how frequently it has been
repeated by others, and how much forgotten. The stars were to the He-
brews-for it is so stated in their own cosmogony-for signs and for
seasons : the proper use of the Asherim was, for ascertaining and mani-
festing the movements of those signs, and the progress of those seasons.
And, since the prayers and the invocations of Abraham, and, in later
ages, of the Heurew Ashaphim, were addressed to Shaddai or to Jehovah,
as the creator of those stars-there could be no idolatry, nor more im-
piety, in consulting an Ashre under such circomstanceH, than could now
attach to the reader in referring to his celestial, or to his armillary, sphere.
As the learned Michaelis has observed, "It was at that time" (the time
of the Hebrew republic) "the universal propensity of mankind to pry into
future events; and it was no less universal to regard religion as a means
of gratifying this curiosity. If God, therefore, desired effectually keep
his people from being carried away by the torrent that overflowed other
nations, and from seeking insight into futurity from superstition or false
religion, it was necessary that true religion should really give them what
every false religion pretended to give." A little further on he shewH that
the only distinction, and the only means of distinguishing, between the
predictors of the surrounding nations, and those of brae), were, "speak-
ing in the name of a strange God, and predicting what did not come to
pass."• ·
But the legitimate use of the Asherim was, the regulation of the public
* "Commentarie11 on the Laws by Sir J.D. Michaelis, Art. 36.
2P
Digitized byGoogle
mlendar; and in Article 199 of his Commentaries, Sir David is yet more
strictly to our present purpose. He says, "It is true, that GQd wbq
ieot Moses as a legislator to the Israelites, and honoured him with im·
revelations, then knew the length of the Kolar year, much more
accurately than any mortal will ever calculate it, and even to the smalles•
hetion of a second, and might therefort> have instructed Moses on this
point, to a degree. of perfection which we shall never attain. This, how-
ever, is not God's usual plan of procedure; for be leaves to men's own
industry the discovery of physical and mathematical truths; nor would
he be acting kiadly, or as a father, desirous to educate his children, and
to habituate them to reftectiou, if be were by a prophet to inform them of
the ezact lel'lgth of tile solar year, and other truths of a similar nature
wt.ieb they might discover themselves, and which are at the same time
not indispensably necessary to tbt>ir well being. In fact, the world was
at that time so deficient in the mensuration of time, that they did not so
much as divide the day into hours, and still less into minutes."
" The greatest wisdom, therefore, that a legislator could then manifest,
consisted in his remarking that the solar year as tllen known, was defec-
tive--in fact, extremely defective; and of coorl!le, in not, on any account,
introducing it into use, but rather leaving his people to abide by the
lunar year, which was at any rate familiar, and in so far pointed out by
celestial phffiomena; correcting, however, its defects, as far as possible,
and approximating it on all occasions to the solar year."
"Now this is precisely what Moses did. He bad it not in his power
to adopt a strictly asfr011omical solar year, and thereby to correct the
irregularities of the lunar year; but he availed himself of the aid of an
economical solar year, which never admitted an error of a whole month
without correcting it, and which every husbandman could easily
prehend."
Hence we are led to perceive the proper use of such instruments as are
here under our consideration. I am not supposing, however, that all the
ancient Asherim were alike, and that the Ashre which was erected at
Beer-sheba exactly resembled that which is represented oD the Boughton
opal. On the coutrary, I can prove that those ofthe Saf>a,ans differed in
Digitized by Google
316
form and moving from each other; and even now, wmlet tiU&
very sheet, have received fresh E'vidence of the fact of their local·lf
iog, through the obliging liberality of thE' Baron Denon.•
our own planetaria, orreries, and armillary spheres, E'Xhibit loCQI.di#i:Jr-
ences of construction, it is but reasonable to .suppose the same of the
astronomical instrumetis of the Sabaans and the Hebrews. The -.c..
machines amst have varied with the means and carrent science :Of
machinists and theastronomical priesthood ; and, according to the
cular.purposes to be answered. S()llle were calcula&ed to explain, and to
taesist in computing, the motions of the plaaets ; others to have tne
effects with regard to the changes of the aeasons, and the
tions of the Moon, and to assist in the enregistering as well as asooNain-
ment of such matters. I should imagine that the Asberim of the
brews were sarmounted by "the Lord Jehovah," expressed·ia
Hebrew characters,-wbich contained a liUralmystery,-wbere we behold
a "Su•image'' in those ofthe Let the reader refer.bere to
passages in the lamentations oftbe Hebrew poets, where the "
oftile Lwtl," occurs, (as it not does). In pallticular
let him observe the miugled sentimeDt of woe and detestatioD, tkt is felt
by the author of some of the Psalms, when.the Bab-ylonian ·invaders bad
violated the sanctuary and cast the name of the Lor.d .to .the growu:l.t f
suspect that it was chiefly the Sun-images which were oD .high .abov:e the
stellar symbols of Canaan,-where the aame of .tfeltovah appeared sur-
mounting those of the Jews,-that were regarded as pee\lliarly
and Their erection beiag a direct and emphatic proDODDc-
ing of BaAl, .as·the Lord of8tlba-81A, instead ofthe .trae " Lord of ·,
who "rode upon a cherub and did fly," we find them rancorously stig-
matised and proscribed by the pious, and the Asherim themselves that
• I propoee to myself the honour of publicly addreuing tbi11 diatingursbed traveller, arti1t,
and antiquary, on the subject of the interesting antiqHI with whiob be baa recently fayoured
me,-bot I fear I aball not find room in the preeent Yolume.
t Turning to the "Critica Hebrea" in the course of reviting the present sheet, I have the
booour to 6nd myaelfagreeing with Julius Bate in regard to the name of the Lord being im:cribed
between the Cherubs of the Jewish Sanctuary. He says in p. 288, "They tell us not what the
appearing ofJehovah on the mercy-seat between the Cherubs·wu, "It lire word Jellfrt!alt."
2P2
Digitized byGoogle
316
had administered to purposes so revolting and polluted-causing the
Hebrews to forget their God-destroyed with the Sun-images and other
idolatrous simulacra: the very gold that had overlaid such, being pro-
nounced by the Levitical Law to be thenceforth hateful.
After all, it may happen that the chief difficulty with the- majority of
readers, will be to believe in the ancient existence of such instruments.
It certainly might have been expected to be so, had I not exhibited the
ocular proof with the argument. We Reem to live too near to our own
spheres and planetaria, and it may be, too near the current of prejudice
·and vulgar declamation against the superstitions and idolatries of the
heathen, to abstract ourselves sufficiently for the uninterrupted Bow of
such reasoning. But for my own part, I should find it far more difficult
to believe that men and nations, whose attainments in the arts and sciences
have been repeatedly proved, and especially of late by Sir William Drum-
mond, in the Classical Journal-in short, that the architects and astro-
nomical priests of such temples and palaces as adorned Thebes, Baby-
lon, Tyre, and Jerusalem, were without instruments of the kind, than
that they possessed such,-even if we had not the ocular fact before us.
Returning to the regrets of the Psalmist, it would appear that the Ba-
bylonian conquerors and colonists who had possessed themselves of
Jerusalem, proceeded from smaller to greater sacrilege, and at length
carried fire and defilement into the sanctuary and into the synagogues.
"They have cast fire into thy sanctuary; they have defiled, by casting
down the dwelling place oj'THY NAME to the ground. They have burned
up all the synagogues of God in the land. We see not our signs: there
is no more anypropAet; neither is there among us an!/ that ltrwwetA 1wtc
long.,
i think this text pretty clearly evinces, that it was among the duties of
the sacerdotal office to announce the existing or current state of the
calendar, and the coming changes in the seasons; that within the ady-
tnm, or oracle--or somewhere within the sacred precincts,-were kept
their astronomical means of divining or computing those changes, and
that this was done according to certain celestial signs, which were ac-
as such by the Hebrews. Indeed we have already seen from
Digitized byGoogle
317
a text in the Chronicles, that there was in those days an appointed order
of Levites, whose duty it was to keep the instruments of the sanctuary
clean and in order; and Ezekiel (in chap. xliv. ver. 8.) reproaches his
country with neglect of this duty, in terms which shew it must have been
regarded by the pious as of importance. In the name of the Deity, he
says, ".Ye have not kept the charge of mine holy things; but ye have set
keepers of my charge, in my sanctuary, for yourselves," meaning, that
the civil and rural observances of.the signs had been disconnected from
the religious, and were all remained. · In truth, the very psalm or
lament, that is here under our review, is itself further proof of I have
advanced above, concerning the A.shaphim and Asherim; for it is super-
scribed" Maschil of A.saph"-but this requires some explanation.
The Biblical commentators have.treated of the inscriptions which are
prefixed to some of the Psalms, with considerable uncertainty. Among
them, Mr. Horne, one of the latest and best, writes, " with the name of
Asaph, a very celebrated Le,•ite, and chief of the choirs of Israel in the
time of David, (1 Chron. xvi. 4, a.) twelve psalms are inscribed; viz. the
60th, and from 73 to 83 inclusive. But the 74th and 79th cannot be his,
because they deplore the overthrow of Jernsalem, and the conflagration
of the temple. Either therefore they are erroneously ascribed to
or were composed by another Asaph who lived during the captivity."
It appears to me that here are at the least two mistakes in this pas-
sage, and that the psalms in question are neither written by the cele-
brated Levite whom Mr. Horne mentions, nor by any namesake of his.
In the first place, these pre-inscribed psalms are, in the older English
Bibles, severally headed, "A Psalm committed to the Sons of Korah,"
or " committed to Asaph ;" which I dare believe is nearer to the meaning
of the original Hebrew, than is the modernised translation, and which
shews that these psalms of questionable authority bear the names, not of
their authors, but of those who were appointed to sing or perform them
in public : and in the next place, the psalm which is here chiefly in
question, (the 74th) can neither have been composed by the Asaph, who
during the reign of David " made a sound with cymbals," and is also
named as a singer; nor (as far as appears) by any other individual <U'
Digitized byGoogle
SJ8
tbst name,-becaose it is superscribed or addressed" M(Jickil ofAsaph,"
a-nd this performer is elsewhere styled "Maschil of Ethan,• the Ezrahite,"
and in another place" the chief musician upon Mahalath Leannoth."
My general inferences in this place are, that none of the Psalms pre-
by the word Asaph, are the compositions of an individual Levite
of that name, but that aU are simply directed to be sung or performed,
either by the chief .A.sllaph, or by that sacerdotal order which were styled
AsAapbim, [by Cruden and some others written Asapbim] of whom Mas-
chit was in his day the chief, or, as the Hebrew and the older English
Bibles E>xpress, that thE>y were "cmnmitttd to" the Ashapb, he being re-
sponsible for the judicious selection of the performers. Hence Maschil
might in one place be with propriety designated att of Ethan (the probable
country or town of his birth), and in another, as Maschil of the Asba-
phim, or Maschil the Ashaph, which the translators might compromise-
not knowing, or not caring to acknowledge, the existence of an
which they might fear would confound the Hebrew astronomical diviDers,
or pronouncers of celestial blessings, or superintendents of the calendar,
with those of Babylon.
I am not sure that the individual of David's time who is mentioned with
honour in the 1st book of Chronicles, was other than the chief Blesser,
(being also a musician). He might be Ashapb both by name and office;
tbe office being, or becoming, hereditary, and the Jewish names generally
significant. But we need not strain at a gnat. There is in fact uo diffi-
culty here. The first Levites were so named from Levi ; and from that
day to this, many who have held the office have borne the name. And
as we read ofno Ashaph of earlier date, it might not be unfair to conclude
that the Ashaphim of subsequent times, have been so called from the cel&-
brated singer and utterer of heavenly blessings, who lived during the
reign of David. As the Levites were from Levi, the Ashaphim may have
been descended and nan'led from this Asbaph. However, whether, or
not, the name be derived from the office, is b€
're of small importance.
* Psalm lxxxiL The sacred penmen have often more ways than one of writing the eame
name. In the preceding Paalm. thia muaiciag upon Mabalath ia designated " Muchil of
Hcman. the Ezrahite."
Digitized byGoogle
319
The prescribed Qf Aaron and his sons, as tbose dutjes are spe-
cified in 1 Chron. xxiii. 13, were, to minister before the Lord, and "to
BLESS i11. his tUJme, for ever,"-which is in strict conformity with ex·
ample of their great progenitor, who erected the Ashre, at
But what else do we read in this venerable book? In chap. xvi. 6, we
read that David appointed cer&!ain of the Levites to minister (a vague term
certainly) before the ark of the Lord, and to record, and to thank and
praise the Lord God of Israei...,....Asaph the Chiif:" and in v. 37, "SQ he
left there, before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, Asaph and Au
brethren [Should we not understand here, his Co.ashaphim?] to miniater
before the ark, as every da!J's work required." 1 request that the words
marked in italics throughout the present paragraph may be remembered.
Proceeding onward to the dedication of Solomon's temple and the in·
duction of the ark of God into the oracle, we find mentioned, among
those who were present on that great occasion, "all them of Asaph, of
Heman, of Jeduthun, with their sons and their -being arrayed
in white linen."
"All them cif Asaph, of <Joes not well expi'ess, and may
not be intended to express, that individual Levites of those names were
present: however, as this was witbin a few years of David's appointwent,
the aairmative might be argued: but what can be said, when we arrive
at the next far-famed dedication and passover in the reign ofJosiah, which
was not until about four centuries after that of Solomon? " Thel'e was
no passover like to that, kept in Israel from the days of Samuel the pro·
pbet, neither did all the kings of Israel keep such a passover as Josiah
kept. And the singen, the sons of Asaph, were in their place according
to the command of David ; and A..sapk, and Hematl., and Jeduthun the
king's seer."
As no individual priests of these names, can be supposed to have con-
tinued to live for those four hundred years, is it not fair to infer that these
were the names ofofficeS, and that what is meant by the chronicler is, that
the Levites filling these sacred offices, were present and in their places
on this''Aolemn occasion :-The Ashaph, the Heman, the king'¥ seer.
Hebrew nemes are often written with discrepancies in the Bible. Asaph,
Digitized byGoogle
320
according to the Jewish enunciation, would be AsAaph. We are there-
fore brought round to the Hebrew etymons rvat and JtN, which when
conjoined, have already been explained to signify utterers or declarers of
heavenly blessings; and are also brought round to the M,rvN, or astro-
logical Blessing apparatus-so that we may now advance by easy paces,
to the further explanation of the text "We see not ovr signs, there is
no more any prophet; neither is there among us any that knoweth bow
long;" a text which as we meditate on its author's weaning, kindles, and
becomes radiant with Sabrean light.
The case of the men of Judah, which is alluded to in this lamentation
on the dilapidated !ftate of the temple and synagogues, was very similar
to what had happened, a little more than a century earlier, in the brother
kingdom of Israel, where after its subjugation by Shalmanezer,* those
colonists whom he sent to repeople the dilapidated and desolate Cities,
" set up their signs for signs;" or, as it is expressed in the 2d book of
Kiugs, ch. xvii. vv. 29, 30, "£very nation made gods of their own. The
men of Babylon made Succoth benoth; the men of Cuth made Nergal,
and the men of Hamath made Ashima."
I take these to have been the astrouomical signs-some of them perhaps
the names of zodiacal signs, in their respective couutries,-upon whose
heliacal risings and settings the changes of the seasons were supposed to
depend. The Hebrew astronomers (or Ashaphim) appear still to have
chosen to adhere to the ancient Cherubic sig7u, which I here assume to
have been astronomical; and to that system which had ordained Leo and
Aquarius-the Lion and Man of Ezekiel-as the signs of the solstices;
while the better informed astronomy of Babylon, chose not to dissemble
the precession ofthese solstices; and knowing that their colures had now
passed into Cancer and Capricorn, insisted on superseding the Lion and
Man, the former by au Ass and foal, the latter by a fish-tailed Goat; which
figures, in the planispheres of Chaldea, surrounded the stars of Cancer
and Capricorn. I possess engraved examples of both of them ; and Miss
Porter's Babylonian agate, from which the reader will find an impression
copied in page 284, is one of those examples. w
• Probably thia name ehould be epelled Salman-cmur, i.e•.the Aseyrian Solomon.
Digitized byGoogle
321
Whether there were Hebrew mystics (ot Cabbala) during the ages of
Solomon and .Ezekiel, who possessed, and kept to themselves, the know-
ledge ofthe preces8ion of the equinoxes? is no where recorded, but is not
improbable. How, indeed, should it be effectively recorded, since, if the
mystics kept any archives, they were never made public? We gather no-
thing of the form of the cherubim from reading the Pentateuch. This
looks a little like the designed concealment of mystics, notwithstanding
the surmise of Dr. Watts, that their form was too well known to need
describing. To those wko saw the carving and embroidery of the taber-
nacle of Moses, doubtless theirform was known; but neither their form
nor meaning has been imparted to posterity : and we must grant that
Ezekiel, in treating of theo cherubic animal8, either suppresses their astral
reference to the "gates of hE'Bven," or does not per:ceive it. On the
whole, I beg to submit that there appears to have existed among the He-
brew Ashaphim a probable attachment (such as prevails in Europe at
present, and such as appears always to have prevailed among the clas-
sical nations) to tke more ancient signs of the changing seasons; which,
although it might be termed civil, or rural, among the Greeks and the
Egyptians, appE"ars to have partaken of the nature of a religious attach-
ment among the Jews. And the mystery which attended it might possi-
bly be held to be the more abstruse, from a consciousness on the part of
the Ashaphim that these ancient signs no longer tallied with the astro-
nomic phenomena, and from a knowledge that the people were too poorly
versed in that science to receive the achantage of thorough explanation-
just as modern masses are, in some parts of Europe, placed in the hands
and minds of certain catholic devotees, instead of the holy scriptures.
These suppositions not only give consistent intelligibility of meaning to
the placing of the ancient signs Taurus and Leo, within the
erected by Solomon-who lived while Aries, and not Taurus, was the
place of the equinoctial colore; and Cancer, not Leo, the place of the
solstice-but also to the cheorubic* animals of .Ezekiel, who lived in a
later age, yet still while the Sabman year opened with the sign Aries.
• The whole of thia reasoning concerning the cardinal aodiacal pointa, as connectr.d with
animals, real& very much on the auppotitioo that the atan which al'e now those of
Digitized byGoogle
But how dGes this accord with the men of Babylon making Succoth-
benoth? I apprehend perfectly well : but before 1 explain this, it may
not be improper to remind ourselves, that every star-worshipping nation
appears to have had its own peculiarities of worship, arising out of geo-
graphical and other local circumstanceN, and most of them to have
adopted some patron, or tutelary, sign or constellation, whose transits
with respect to the horizon, the meridian, and the Suo, marked the muta-
tions of the seasons-as its peculiar deity, or rather sub-deity, the Sun
himself being regarded as the supreme Lord and leader of the Sabean
host.
Hence, as I have in effect before stated, the profound veneration of the
.Egyptians, for the constellation which we now call Bootes, and which
they called Osiris. ·He was their national and established celestial sign,
by whose place in the heavens with respect to theSun, was regulated.and
governed all their sacred festivals, and all those manual, maritime, and
agricultural operations, the seasons for which are now known by the
calendar-the calendar itself being still dependant on the celestial signs.
And hence, notwithstanding that Osiris is variously displayed within the
recesses of the .Egyptian temples, the solar orb is sculptured as shining
with sublime but mysterious reference to the soul of the Mundane system
over every portal. Like the wise observations and " the dark sayings"
of Solomon, all the hieroglyphics within were "beheltl utuler the Sua,"
and no hierophant or devotee could pass to the interior without being
reminded of the superior deity, and bending in previous homage to the
lofty 01·b of Jnminous eftluence.
Hence too the men of Babylon, in arbitrarily imposing on the Samari-
tans their own signs for signs, " made Succoth-benoth," which is gene--
rally agreed to have been the cluster of seven stars which appears on the
present opal. A hen and chickens is by some authors supposed to have
been their ancient hieroglyphical symbol or but" no hen
Scorpius, had been conatellated u an Eagle in the zodiac of Abraham· and his grandsons,
which Sir William Drummond goes near to demonstrate on the authorities of certain
writer• and of scriptural facts: yet to sculptured monuments we must look for confirmation,
ol" contradiction.
Digitized byGoogle
and chickens have yet made their .appearance among our Sabrean en-
gravings, or on any other that I have yet seen of the •fllJtiUiicmable mo..
numents of antiquity: and the words Succoth-benoth, I believe, literally
signify tents of tlae damsels. Concerning. the stars themselves, however.
there exists no doubt. They are the same which the Greeks and Romans
called the Ple"iades; and Vergilia; the poet ofJob; Kimah; the Arabians,
al Thuryaia; and whose heliacal risiog. was .bailed by most of the orien-
tal nations with grateful or rapturous. acknowledgment of their sweet
and their promise of genial abundance. The Sun, the Moon,
and these stars, marked, in those countries, the broad outline or contour,
of the annual changes of the Asiatic seasons. When· the stars of Suc-
coth, Kimah, or al Thuryaia rose with the Sun, or (as it is expressed in
Cooke's Hesiod)
" When the Pleiades of Atlas born,
Before the Sun's arise illum'd the morn;"
they knew that the Spring season. had returned: when they set, those
people were equally apprised that the duties of Autumn were to be per-
formed.
And now we may the more easily understand why the men ofBabylon
of the age of Het up this little cluster ofstars as their pecu-
liar sign. The vernal equinox* was no longer there. The triangle of
Musca would have been much nearer the true mark-but the imperfect
science or (more likely) the national prejudice of Babylon, continued to
adhere to their long venerated sign. I believe I have elsewhere in this
volume argued, or shewn by retrospective computation, thai the period
of the reign of the Ple"iades as leading stars of the Sabtean year,
reached to the era of which we are here treating, notwithstanding that the
solstitial colures had moved into Cancer and Capricorn. This might at
first appear somewhat paradoxical, as the Ple"iades are known to have
beeu long reckoned among the stars of Taurus; but we must bear in
mind that this little bland and conspicuoutt cluster, are so detached from
* In using the term equinoz, I by no means intend to •Y that the diurnal light and nucturnal
darkness, watt ezactl!J divided, on the day when these stara rose heliacally; or that the ancient
Sab:eans pouet.."t:d, as we do, cbronometrical means of knowing thie. I mean only that the
astronomical mark of the commencement of their veraal seaeon, wae aa above stated.
2 Q 2
Digitized byGoogle
324
the HyadeH and the stars in the horns of the Bull, that as viewed in tbe
heavens, they appear a constellation in and by themselves, and may pos-
sibly have been so reckoned by the Chaldeans and the Ashapbim of
Canaan : but whether so or not, it may easily be seen by the globe, that
in the latitude of Babylon they rise with the earliest stars of Aries, while
the meridian crosses the- tail of Capricorn: so that they remained among
the men of Babylon the astronomical mark of the commencing vemal
season, for somewhat longer than the period of their rightful reign. And
when I came to try this problem by a globe mounted on a new principle,
and which admits of my removing back the arctic pole circularly, in pro-
portion to any given distance of time, I found it to be still more the case
than with a common globe, from the greater obliquity of ascension of
those stars.
The Babylonians then were nearer the truth than the astronomers of
Judea and Samaria: but there were among the Samaritan Hebrews those
who made it a point of religion or of policy not to be persuaded of the
rectitude of an invading enemy :-no uncommon sort of people, certainly.
But, "We see not our sigm," laments the Psalmist. Need I continue to
argue that celestial signs of the seasons are here meant? What other
signs could be meant? Have I been led away by any unexpected spark-
ling of a novel hypothesis? Do I fancy a cherub, while I pursue an
ephemeron? Can I only sojourn here for a day, or may the ground be
dwelt upon? Has the reader auy kindred doubts or misgivings? I
think he will find it difficult to meditate on the descriptions of the details
of the interior of Solomon's temple, (uncritically translated though they
are), and those of there-edified temple as St'f'D in vision by E1ekiel, with
their zodiacal animals and palm-trees so repeatedly mentioned, and the
armillary, or revolving machinery which was attached to the cherubim of
the latter, and which are idealised (as the commentators agree) from what
was really executed within the Adytum or oracle of the former-without
supposing that they had astronomical references: What other than
astronomical occasions could David, Solomon, and Hiram, have had for
such numerous repetitions as appeared in their temple, of Taurus and
Leo-the more ancient" gates of heaven''-that is to say, signs of the
vernal equinox, and the summer solstice? Let the reader reSect on these
Digitized byGoogle
and on the " chapiters," bowls, "pomegranates," &c. which stood on the
cippi, or pillars of the porch ; let him think of the palm-trees mingled
with zodiacal signs, of the interior: let him revolve in his mind the·-mys-
tic machinery that was attached to the cherubim of the oracle.
The prophet Ezekiel says of his resuscitated temple and its decors.
tions, as beheld in vision, (chap. xli. vv. 18, "It was made with
cherubims and palm-trees, so that a palm-tree was between a cherub and
a cherub, and every cherub had two faces; so that the face of a. man
(Aquarius) was toward the palm-tree on one side, and the face ofa young
lion (Leo) toward the palm-tree on the other side: "It was made through
all the house round about, from the ground unto above the door, were
cherubims and palm-trees made."
These alternations ran along the interior of the wall, and were simply
carved and overlaid with gold. I do not imagine that the branches of
these palm-trees were moveable in the manner of an Ashre, which they
so much retremble in general appearance; but others may think differ-
ently, and I am not certain. My notion is, that there were six carved
palm branches on either side, springing from an upright stem (so as to
represent half the tree in relievo, as growing toward the spectator} be-
tween every two cherubim; which, although not movable, would be well
understood to possess a certain astronomical meaning, as symbolising
the number of months between the heliacal rising of Leo and that of
Aquarius.
But of the machinery which accompanied the larger cherubim of the
Oracle, whose wings extended so• far, I may perhaps be allowed to enter.
tain and express a different opinion. I think this was susceptible ofmotion,
.and came onder the denomination of" instruments of the sanctuary."
"It came to pass (says the prophet) that when be (the Almighty) had
commanded the man clothed with linen, saying, take fire from between
the revolving machinery, (translated tcAeels,) then be went in and stood by
the wheels.
• The wings of these cbtrubims spread themselves forth twenty cubits !-2rad B. qfCAronick1,
chap. iii. ver. 18.
Digitized byGoogle
"And whee I looked; behold the four wheels by the chernbims; one
wheel by ooe cherub and another wheel by another cherub."
"And ·aa fOr their appearanees, they four had one likeness, as if a
wheel bad been in the midst of a wheel."
In reading this text, let the reader dismiss the idea of a literal wheel,
and · think only of machinery .ausceptible of circomvolution, like the
spokes or braocbes of our Ashre, which may be observed to possess also
a.capability of ituaer motion, by means of its lateral hinges; in fact it
bas two central or pivot binges, which we might call naves, as well as
two side binges, .and these two naves no doubt a power of se-
parate·motion, or why should they have been there(
And concerning the eyes with which the cherubim and wheels are (in
verse 12) desCribed to ha'te been covered-" their whole body, and their
beeks-, and' their bands, and tht'ir ttJixgs, .and their wheels, were full of
eyes round abdut''-Jet the reader recollect how ridiculous, rather than
mystical, appear those ancient Bible cuts ofthis subject, where the wheels
and the cherubim, wings and. al'l, are thus speckled over with human
I fancy that the zodiacal signs of .which the cherubim consisted,
had their 11ars inserted-in the way of burnished asterisks, perhaps, or
small CirClets (bearing resemblance to eyes) and that the peripheries (or
fellOe&) of the wheels, were broad circumscribing zoney, having perhaps
measured degreeR, or perhaps the places ·of the principal individual stan
-(those of the lunar zodiac it may be, or MazzalotA) perforated, or
otherwise specified. When the precession of the equinoxes once came
.to be discovered or recognized among the Hebrew Ashaphim, it may
easily be conceived that zodiacs thus perforated, would greatly assist
thetn in computing, and in explainingto the Levitical tyroes, the
ment of the' stars in longitude, and would greatly facilitate those interca-
lations, which would be necessary to the equation of solar and sidereal,
with lunar, time; and to the rectification of that greater cycle of" Mazza.
roth," of which I have already treated. They might thus adhere to their
ancient signs (as astronomers do at present) while they admitted, and
availed themselves of, the truth. My notion of the whole is, that what
Ezekiel had really seen within the sanctuary, was represented to him in
Digitized byGoogle
327
vision, as if animated, magnified, and endued with In
the genuine character of a vision, it transports him in some degree from
the representative signs,:to the celestial and sublime originals. :1.1).vi,ion
these_are mingled-dream-like; and rapt language of prophecy PI:Q·
the amalgamation. ,But my reade..-s will decide, each as ·JP.,.Y
be able and willing, for himself. I shall here quit this mystery, lest my
critical friends, or myfriendly.critics, should find or should feign, visioJJ.
within not less perplexing than " wheel within wheel."
Yet before we turn to other matters, you will permit me to offer a
or. those golden orreries of Moses and SolomoJJ., which I
ought perhaps to have introduced in au earlier page.
.Those orreries or planetaria-which in the .English Bibles are called
compared with the Asherim, shew that the astrono-
mical instruments then in use were of two kinds at least. The one bearing
reference (as I .have already explained) to the movements of the zodiacal
sig1;1a in their monthly vicissitudes, the other to the motions of the planets.
That the instrument devised by Moses, or copied by the wise-hearted
Bezaleel and Aholiab from a pattern exhibited on mount Sinai-was used
fiUJrtly as a lamp with seven burners, is scarcely a tenable supposition.
It had other uses, (as Josephus, Origen, and several of the Rabbin, have
asserted). Its seven flames did not barely correspond in number with the
planets, but more especially in their arrangement, with that
system of the universe which was prevalent in the more ancient times,
which now goes by thenameofthe Ptolemaic, and which announced three
superior, and three inferior, planets. The Sun,-expressed by a knop,
as the book of Exodus phrases it-that is to say (in common language) a
knob, pome, or ball ofgold,-stood on the central rod or shall, surmounted
by a flame. On one side of him were three balls and tlaQles, correspond-
ing to Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars; and on the other, the three crescent or
inferior planeU,, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon. Or the arrangement
may perhaps have been more conforrn.able to· the Copernican fact-for I
know not that any thing has transpired to set us at a certainty upon this
.point:-The Sun in the.center may !)ave beep surrounded by the other
planets io their order·of succession, as their orbits increase in diameter;
Digitized byGoogle
3i8
but they all tumed, like the branches of the Asherim, on central hinges
issuing from the shaft.
I attend here to the Pentateuch, and not to the prints which we have
repeatedly seen of this instrument in Calmet, and almost in every Bible:
Not that these prints materially differ from the impress on the Hebrew
skekel, or from that sculptured candelabrum on the arch of Titus, which
was in all probability copied from the candlestick of the second temple;
or probably from the fact,-excepting in one respect. We read that "in
the candlestick of Moses, werefOtlr bowls made like unto almonds.".;_
Now why were these four contradistinguished from the other three?
Why, but because four of the planets were always seen orbicularly;
namely, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, and Sol, and the other three, not. J b&-
lieve that no previous writer has offered any reason for this distinction,
or even noted it; neither is it noticed in the accredited representations.
Whether or not you have heretofore reflected on these coincidences, I
think, my dear Sir, you will easily atlprehend how astronomical accounts
ofthe movements both ofthe Mazzaloth and of the Planets might by these
means, in the absence of means more scientific, be kept, and rendered,
with tolerable fidelity. By moving round the knobs or balls of the
Asherim within the hoops studded with their resplendent eyes, or stars,
the progress of the months and of the seasons might be enregistered, or
manifested to the students in the stellar mysteries : the planetary mo-
tions by moving the branches of the candelabrum, with their seven balls
and the lamps which surmounted them-as we now use a machine more
horizontally constructed, but on a similar principle, to answer the same
purpose.
I trust that I shall not be esteemfif impious, because I have deemed it
impartial and fit on the present occasion, to regard historically and with
no better and no other guides than human science and common sense,
matters which have hitherto been viewed only through the veil of reli-
gion, which, like other veils, is not transparent unless there he light be..
yond it, and unless it be closely inspected.
Of the stanzas of the Psalmist, " We see not our signs.-There is no
more any prophet; neither is there any among us that knoweth how
Digitized byGoogle
329
J.ong :" having explained what I conceive is meant by not seeing out·
si..lf"'s, it ·remains that [ offer a few words iu explanation of the remainder
of the sentence.
The Ashaphim of Chronicles were "to minister bifore the Lord, (who
in the days of the Hebrew theocracy was supposed to sit in the mercy-
seat,) and to bless in his name;" or, according to another version, they
were "to minister before the ark, and record; or again, "to minister
fore the ark continually, as every day's work required." By way of illus-
trating what is meant in these texts, may be mentioned that, one of the
earliest and most venerated of the authorities of ancient Greece, has en-
titled the most important of his ]>Oems " Works and Days." It treats, as
is well known, of those operations, or works of human labour, which are
ever dependant on the changes of the seasons, and which of course are
periodically performed; and its precepts are derived from the stan;.
The Phmnician navigators, the agriculturists and of
Judea, and the merchants of Canaan ;-those who, figuratively speaking,
ploughed the deep; and those who·literaIIy ploughed, sowed, and reaped,
the Holy Land ;-those lshmaelites too who traversed the oriental de-
sarts, guided only by the stars-must, in those early ages which corres-
ponded with, and which preceded, the era of Hesiod, have been directed
and governed by similar precepts. The prophets and seers of Tyre and
Sidon, of Jerusalem, and Damascus, Beth.el, and Samaria ;-like the poet
and prophet of Ascrea, (for prophets are literally, and by their office,
foretellers)-must have apprised their less informed countrymen that
" Wben from the Tropic, or the winter's sun,
Thrice twenty days and nights their course have run ;
And when Arcturus leaves the main, to riee
A star bright shining in the evening skies;
Then prune the vine:"
And so of the rest of those approaching duties which depended on the
mutations of the seasons.
But when no calendars were, or could have been, published, how were
tbe hinds-to enregister, or keep accounts of these sixty days and nights?
How were they to know when the Sun had arrived at the Tropic?-
2a
Digitized byGoogle
330
'they must have been informed by .some civil or religious officer', within
the scope of w_hose prescribed duty it lay, to keep account of, and to
make public, such matters; and they most likely resorted to the syna-
gogues, and listened with due attention to those Ashaphim whose busi-
ness it was "to record," and to" minister as every day's work required."
In the spirit of the Psalmist, must have noted the signa of hea-
ven; and have told J.ow ltntg to the husbandmen, mariners, merchants,
the rest of thoMe whom such changes might concern.
The !JCOpe of my argument is, that before numerals were
thOSf' modem facilities of astronomical and arithmetical cal-
culation known, which now render it so difficult to abstract our
views from our ow11 experience, machines turoiOS" on eentral pivot-hinges,
were used for the purpose.
Hesiod, as far as is known, lived within a century aftet! Solomon, co.,_
sequently from two to three hundred years before the time when the
above Hebrew lallll6ntatioa was probably written : his residenee was at
the foot of mount Helicon. Bearing in milld that tbe Jewish synagogues,.
or places of instruction, were bumecl by their inYaders, and their great
temple dilapidated, it is easy to deduce tbe sentiment which dictated the
psalm, from the existing state of public aad religious yet I see
not how it is practicable to do so, without betieting ia the <»-existeoce
of astrooomical aad mechanical means of aseertaining and enregisteriD«'
the progra.s of the seasoDS, and the annually returning phenomena of
the starry How else should we be able to construe the re-
tnarkable expressions, "we see not ouR aigws; there is no more any
prophet, neither is there among us any that kuowetb Aow long."
When instruments of the above kind were once invented, it would not
be very long ere the travels of studeats and adepts in science, would
spread the knowledge of them through the civilised world, since these
are the chief objectll for which such mea travel. We trace the existence,_
and operation, of these causes, in their effects. Not only has Hesiod men-
tioned the Tropics, under this their Grecian des.igoation, but the poet of
the Odyssey bas gone a step further, by terming them TPOOAI HIAJOIO; or
tropics of the Sun; and by treatiog of them wilh a refereDCe
Digitized byGoogle
331
Scyros.• as .ifthat island bad either Jain under the Tropic. (which it does
not), or bad been their place of ascertainment.
Now Scyros, (one of the Cyclades) is the very island of which Phere-
cydea wa1 a native; and Diogenes Lat-rtius says that Pherecydes, who
acquired his philosophical knowledge :by studying the abstruse books of
the Phamicians. erected at Scyros a tropical instrument. It would have
been. to have supposed (as Mr. Costard mistakenly does) that
Homer bad seen, or heard of, the instrument of Pherecydes, if the poet
bad not lived, even according to the lowest estimate &f the era of Homer,
more than four centuries before the philosopher. Either therefore ·the
chronology of these events is more out of joint than has hitherto been
wpposed, or a tropical instrument existed at Scyros before the age of
Pherecydes, who was the reput-ed tutor of Pythagoras, and the contem-
porary of the prophet Ezekiel. lu either event, the tropical instrument
of Scyros, contrived as it was " to shew or explain the Sun's ingl'eSs into
the cardinal points," must in all probability have been of the nature of
our Ashre of Canaan, and have been studied or borrowed at first from
some original.
The existence of the Greek word TPOIIAI found both in
Homer aDd Hesiod, and used also by Thales, seems to imply the eo-
existence of such instruments; for how should the ancients have kr1own
the point, or more properly, carve, of re-twrn, without some astronomical
apparatus, whereby it might be ascertained or verified?
Had Homer been subsequent to, or even but contemporary with, Phe-
recydes. the whole of these curious passages relating to ancient science,
would have been clear. HO'wever, the doubts which have so long ob-
scured the era of the father of poetry, I believe have at Jast been dis-
pelled by the diligent research and discriminating ardour of Mr. Payne
Knight. But though we should suppose with that gentleman, the Odyssey
to have been written two centuries later than theHiad, we should still want
two centuries more, in order to bring us to the time of Phereeydes. On
the whole, I have felt that it was most discrret for me simpily to state these
matters, together with the two remote facts which must remain to us,
* Odysa. lib. n. ver. 402.
2Jt2
Digitized byGoogle
bowe.er theoy may be determined; namely, that tropical instruments were
known in early Greece, as wellu in Canaan; and that Pherecydes, who
erected-peorhaps renewed or repaired-one at Scyros, was the coo-
temporary ofthat prophet, who saw in vision the brilliant and magnified
prototypes of the more ancient places of the tropics and equinoxes, aod
of the revolving machinery of the Hebrew saoctnary.
We may regard this instrument, ascribed to Pherecydes, as a connect-
ing link of some importance, for not very long after, we read that Anui-
mander, the kinsman, companion, and successor, ofThales, "found oof'-
that is, taught, I suppose, after having previously learned from the astro-
nomel'8 of Phmnicia-tbe obliquity of the zodiac, lwr01copu
to defwle tlae tropic• afld eqtlirwzu; whence Salmasius conceives that the
proper use of "the dial" which has been ascribed to that philosopher,
or what bas been so termed, "was to ascertain or note tile tropical
and eqtlirwctial points ;'• and with reason, for the division of the day into
boors, is known to be an invention of subsequent date.
Moreover, the Chaldeans are known to have had an instrument of the
kind, which has by the same licence been termed a dial or clock, bot
which they called N,,O '\'7M (HekpA Sidera), meaning, according to Sir
William Drummond, "the mutation or transition ofthe series or order,"t
and to be understood oftime, light, and the seasons; for Parkhurst says
of -,'7n, that it denotes "passing succession, after, or in the place of;
and so, change, renewal :" and of ,,0that it is to arrange (in rows) with
an allusion to the rays or columns of light.t
The sphere, or more properly, orrery, of Posidonios, which is mentioned
by Balbos in Cicero's treatise; and that mentioned by Valerius Flaccos,
as having been erected within the temple of the Sun, were doubtless, im-
provements on the more ancient machines, of which we have been dis-
coursing. All must have turned like the Ashre of the Boughton cylinder,
on central pivot-hinges, and all have possessed, under different local mo-
difications, similar powers of revolutionary movement.
We have now been gradually wending toward those astronomical con-
, • • Lives oftbe Pbiloaopben, p. 61. t <Edipus Judaicus, p. 887.
t Hebrew Lexicon, pp. 211, 484.
Digitized by le
siderations on which I chiefly rely for confirming what bas been advanced
on the of ancient records. Before we bestow on them our cri-
tical attention, I may perhaps be permitted to take for granted that my
readers are satisfied-at least that they are willing to believe-that in-
struments of the general nature of the graven image which I have the
honour to exhibit, were the parents and prototypes of the mystic trees
mentioned and alluded to by the prophets and other Hebrew writers,
(the Sephiroth, the Asherim, and the Heleph Sidera), and also of that
artificial branched instrument, which is mentioned by Pausanias• as
having been borne by the Greeks in their sacred processions iu honour
of the Suo ; and were the more remote progenitors of our modern armil-
lary, and celestial, spheres and planetaria.
I omit some other ancient names which appear to me to have belonged
in different countries to instruments of the kind, in order not to encum-
ber memory, and because none of these are now to be regarded as ea:-
clusively proper and right. Seplairotk indeed,-notwithstanding I have
mentioned it first, I should suppose to be a word of later formation than
the rest, invented probably among the Gnostics or It appears
to me to be simply and obviously no more than an union of the Hebrew
words ,£)0 (Sephir or Sepher), and M'N (Oth or Ath), and literally to
mean the book of sacred signs : It was at first a scroll or book, expla-
natory of sacred mysteries-accompanied perhaps by the delineation of a
mystic tree, in illustration of its contents, and connecting those myste-
ries with certain signs which were conventional among the Sabman
priesthood. To the novices and aspirants, a book of initiation.
Passing other terms then, which may have had their several local pro-
• That thia circumatance il mentioned by Pauaaniu, I hue not the leut doubt; but I met
with it in the fint voL of Sir R. Porter'• Travela, p. 547; and I own I have aought for it in vain
in the writings of the Grecian topographer. •• Pauaaoiu remarb (aay• Sir Robert) that at the
celebration of a Grecian featival in honour of the Sun; an olive branch wu carried in the pro-
ceMion, decorated at the top with a globe of to represent the S1,1n ; with a amaller, a little
below, to repreaent the Moon ; and diven leaaer onea, auapended in different pam of the bough,
to repreaent the stan." I conct:ive ibia branch or bough to have beeo in fact simulacrun1 of
one of the Sabean implementl which are here under diacUMion. I dun't know what ebe it
could have been; but the.reader will of course form bit own concluaion.
/ Digitized by GO gle
II
I t
' I
•
t
1
j
' 1
,
'
lI
'I
prieties-instruments of tbe same general nature may have been occasion-
ally, and in some places, caHed Helepb-Sidera, and Mazzalotb, not so
much, as instruments artificiaJJy constructed, but as the abstract repre-
seatative symbols of the zodiacal signs ; as affording the necessary faci-
lities, and as being in short, the current means of effecting zodiacal com-
putations. Bot, whatever the nouns, if through these endurable produc-
tions of ancient art, we have arrived at a knowledge of the tleings denomi-
nated, we have gotten beyond the books of our predecessors, and the
sounds by which they were known, become of inferior importance.
Of these instruments or things, there were among the star-worshipping
nations, several species, of which each doubtless had its discriminative
appellation ; but we will, if you please, limit our present attention to that
which is displayed on the jasper-opal. From the upright central rod,
bolt, or o( the machine, which is immediately beneath the Sun-
image, spring twelve little globes or balls, six branching off curvedly on
either side, and one of them (the lowest on the left hand side) being from
accident or design, imperfectly expressed. My first idea was, that these
balls might denote the six summer and six winter months (expressed by
their moons) of thirty days each, and that the five or six balls, imper-
fectly exhibited (bot which imperfect exhibition appeared also to have
its astronomic meaning) as springing from the angles of the lozenge be-
neath, signified the intercalary days, by means of which the time-prophets
of Canaan, completed the round of their solar year.
My corollary was, that Adad, Baal, or the Son, presented himselfin
this hieroglyphic, as lord of the round o,f time, or of the moving heavens ;
which I believe the Chaldeans and Canaanites wrote-the former Baal-
rimmon, and the latter Adad-rirumon.
But scholars differ much more widely and more frequently than those
.who are not scholars are apt to suppose, concerning the meanings ofChal-
daic and Hebrew words. Parkhurst says that l,c-1 (Rimmon) literally a
pomegranate, was the name of the Syrian idol or object ofworship which
is mentioned in the second book of Kings, chap. v. ver. 18, and that it
expressed the fixed stars and the reflexion or streams of:light
from them." General Vallancey agrees with him, adding that" the Pagan
Irish were strangers to any other idolatrons worship than what their
Digitized by Google
336.
ancestors brought from the Assyrians, .namely, that of the Sun, Moon,
and stars; all were included in the general name of Ri111f11M or Rmninc,
which to this day is the appellation of the sta-:ry constellations."• Mean-
while Sir William Drummond says that Rimmon signifies " t!Je ttmlud
One; and adds, "this was a Syrian deity, and probably indicated the
Sun in his highest exaltation."t Neither of these interpretations appears
impertinent to the figure which is engraved on our cylinder; bot Sir
William's Rimmon, is precisely the Adad ofMacrobius and ofthe authors
of the ancient universal history.
Mr. Bellamy has defined this remarkable word. He says, " the
word Rimmon means, to exalt; to be able to break forth with power on
being exalted:" which, although by the way, it be more than a single
meaning, not inapplicable to our present purpose, nor more especially
to the solstitial Sun, of which I shall presently discourse. Mr. B. cODti-
nues, "The sacred writers used the word to signify the exaltation and
breaking-forth of divine light."
It is nothing new for doctors to differ, nor for those who are not doc·
tors to perceive such difference. My happy fortune iu the present in-
stance is, to have discovered a recondite point of agreement between
them. No account of Rimmon is more pertinent to the present moao-
ment, than this of Mr. Bellamy; but when he comes to speak of Rim-
moo as a Syrian idol, which was nperseded i• the poptdarfaith, by Be.
ltoilail; and when he comes to add, his suppo11itiou that Rimmon was a
serpent, and Beo-badad, the son of shouting, I can no longer proceed
with him. Rimmon was no serpent; but, as Parkhurst and Vallancey
have said, a pomegranate; and the .ton ofSlwuting, is nonsense, or at
best, one of those amusing meanings, that
" Play round the head, but enter uot the heart,"
because it has, and can have, no foundation, either in aJ)alogy, or in fact.
-Meanwhile the beautiful fruit which bore this ancient name, presents
us with the forms of a sphere surmounted by a star, and we immediately
perceive why the Chaotidim and the A.sAaphim might readily have availed
* Eaay on the Antiquity Iriah Language, &eo p• .SS. t <Eclp.Jud. p. 288.
Digitized byGoogle
336
themselves of symbols so simple, .and at the same time so aptly suited to
the expression of astronomical mysteries.
Bm-hadad, is .obviously .plain Hebrew for the scm of Hadad ; and
Hadad,. or Adad, (the aspirate being a common Hebrew redundance), is
the Syrian solar appellation. There was no supersession, or change of
religious faith, took placeat the time in this part of Canaan; nor any thing
but the ordinary vain, or crafty, assumption of Celo-syriao royalty, which
has already been explained. ·
I find that about forty-six miles northward from Jerusalem, in the valley
of Megiddo, was a town, which is mentioned in Zach. xii. by the name
.of Hadad-rimmon, the remembrance of which also goes toward recon-
ciling my authorities; for since Hadad or Adad was the Syrian name
for the solar deity, and Rimmon for that of an idol collectively ex-
pressing the fixed stars with their proceeding light, Adad-rirmruna must
have been the town 9r City qf the S• and sacred orbs, where probably
such an Ashre or orrery-instrument as our monument displays-but one
whose responses were of more than ordinary celebrity-was consulted
and venerated. This may be. thought digression-in part, at least; bot
my readers, I must hope, will pardon the uncertainties and the desulto-
riness of Hebrew scholarship.
My trains of thought and reasoning, were pursuing these gleams of
literary light and glimmering& of astrology; but, when I came to marshal
my data, and to try my inferences, as has been customary with me, by the
test of astronomical fact-when I came to refer to the sphere itself, and to
place myself, as the study of these gems in general require, alternately.at
the arctic and antarctic poles of the celestial globe-I discovered a remark-
able conformity between the curved branches of our antique monument,
and the leading lines of the sphere at those annual seasons when the
poles and brass meridian are coincident. It appeared that the middle
point, or Ullper binge of the Ashre, where the upper curves meet the
central rod or axis, must be the pple of the Sabean ecliptic according
with the common centre-arctic or antarctic-of the meridio11al lines of
the modem sphere, and being in all probability the remote origin and
archetype of.those very lines; that the lower extremity or foot _of this
Digitized byGoogle
337
r
central rod, or sacred tree, must consequently represent, or be io effect.
tantamount to, the pole of the equator, or of the earth ! and the ball which
surmounts this axis, be the pole of the zenith ! all of which at the sol-
stitial seasons, and then only, are thus coincident. I was struck-and l
think that every man of science who does me the honour to attend to the
fact and its evidences, and reflect on the phenomena, will be struck-with
most agreeable surprise, at perceiving the resemblance between this very
ancient monument, and those leading longitudinal lines and armillary
circles of the modern sphere when thus rectified, which are, aud must
ever remain, -the guides of astronomical science.
To some persons, this resuscitated and sculptured record, may s.eem to
imply the co-existence of a Chaldean or Phrenician sphere; but perhaps
it may only be a scientific step toward such an atchievement. 1 can con-
ceive that one of these instruments, turning on pivot-hinges, and fixed in
the center of a "Chamber of Imagery" (to use a phrase of Ezekiel)-that
is to say, a chamber hieroglyphically covered (perhaps by means of
hangings) with representations of the celestial su!lterisms :--or let us sup-
pose the instrument, with its assumed power of circumvolution, to be
erected beneath such a planispherical ceiling as has lately been trans-
ported from Dendera to Paris:-lt may easily be conceived, I beg to
repeat,. that such a contrivance would answer many-not to say most-
of the purposes of an artificial sphere; being at the same time superior
to such a sphere in point of intelligibility, in as far as it did not present
the student or aspirant, with convexity, instead of concavity, in studying
the vault of heaven.
As these are no trivial matters, it may not be useless to retrace, with
a little more of detail, the leading marks of resemblance and of analogy
between the antique and the modern implement of The;
reader should here turn to my engraved head-piece to the present essay.
tst. The central rod, or bolt,• surmounted by a small orb, is the line
of coincidence between the meridional arc or circle, as viewed from the
pole.; the axis of the ecliptic; and that of the planet we inhabit. At the
• A learned Hebraist, by nation u well as by study and attainment, writea me that " thtl
uil is also called m:l or boll.
2s
Digitized byGoogle
338
-
season11 of the solstice, it becomes also the line and represeatatire of the
solstitial eolure, and of the pole of the zenith.
2dly. Curved lines centering in the pole of the ecliptic are branching
off divergently as on the modern spheres; the difference being, that here
is only one line, or space, for every 30°-tbat is for every zodiacal sign, of
which, spact>S for six are on either side; whereas modern refinement has
dictated that the meridional lines shall now be more numerous. But I
believe we should come nearer to the ideas which prevailed among the
sacerdotal corporation of Chaldeans, with regard to the astronomical
measurement oftime, if the twelve collateral balls were to be regarded as
lfloou: for the twelve Moons of the Year, are the origin both of the
fruits of the mystic tree mentioned by St. John, Dr. Kennicott, and Sir
William Drummond, and of the zodiacal signs or mansions.
3dly. What I have already observed relative to intercalary time, may
perhaps be regarded as more problematical. The twelve months of
thirty days each, were collectively three hundred and sixty: the pendant
balls below, susceptible of being counted as five or as six, I thought
might each be meant for a diurnal round of time, and that they might
hieroglyphically represent and collectively allude to the intercalary days
necessary to complete the round of the solar year. The initiated might
understand, and might explain by their means, that more than five, or
less than six, days, were required to be annually added to the three
hundred and sixty; or, in some years five, and in other years six.
4thly. Probably the six lower balls were also calculated to answer
other purposes, both of divination and instruction. By representing, as·
Josephus and Clemens Alexandrinus have declared of the candelabrum of
Moses,• those planets which gave names to the days of the week, the Sun·
nimself standing for that of the .sabbath, they became highly useful in.
• This candelabrum appears, from the testimony of these learned wrill!re, to hue been a
more simple instrument, of a similar nature to the present. Clemens says, " The candlestick
was placed on the south of the altar of incense, by which were manifested the motions of the
seven luminaries making their revolutions in the south-for there are three branches ineerted
into the candlestick oo either aide, and upon them are lamps," &c.-&r0111. I. 5. alao
Joeepbua'a Antiquities of the Jews, :P. 8,
Digitized byGoogle
888
all purposes in which ·this (weekly) division of time was concerned. The
three on the right band side, represented or symbolized the three .superior
planets (Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars), or whose orbits circumscribed that
of the Sun, as was then supposed, according to the Chaldt>an system;
the three on the left, were of course the inferior planets, (Venus, Mercury,
and the Moon;) which is probably, after all, the more plausible, and more
correct reason, why, in the present instance, one of the twelve moons is
bent down from above anrl made to act a double part.
Of the lines terminated by balls somewhat smaller, which emanate from
either side of the solar orb, forming angles of about 60" with the per-
pendicular rod, I find it more eligible to defer to treat.
Having deeply interested, and in a great degree satisfied, myself upon
these points, I became anxious to investigate whether the remainder of
the engraved contents of the cylinder, combined as they are with the
.Ashre and surmounting Suo, afforded data for ascertaining the era when
it was eograveo ?-and whether it was a signet used by the Sphragistm at
their solstitial seasons of sacrifice?
These became exceedingly interesting subjects of inquiry, and occe;
sioned me to reflect how valuable, in the estimation of most men, the
Arundelian marbles bad been esteemed, as sculptured and indelible testa
of the chronology of ancient history. Meanwhile not the least suspicion
of their having been forged, attaches to the Sabrean engravings.
Comparing the present with an outline of another cylinder, which bas
been tranMmitted from Baghdad by the British resident, and which stands
at the head of my next .Essay, it appeared that the bent Jine, or small
arc, terminated by two little balls, by which the winged orb will be ob-
served to be surmounted, was certainly intended ·to convey meaning.
Some kind of contradistinction was clearly meant by the scale-beam being
placed above the solar orb in one instance, and the small arc in the
other; and having satisfied myself that the scale-beam.must either be the
constellation Libra, or that it must symbolically denote the equipoize.of
light and darkness, at the vernal and autumnal• seasons, I was led to
infer that by the small arc or segment was probably.meant the solltite.
'* ''The reader will find tbis question discuued in my next letter·addresaed·to Capt. Loekett.
2s2
Digitized byGoogle
. 340
Of three representations, which, for the sake of their " mutual radia·
tions," I shall produce in succession, of the winged orb, two are sur·
mounted by such an arc. You will observe too, that this little arc or
.curve, is placed immediately over the solar orb, as if to mark the term, or
Jimit, of his progress. Now, as the Sun at the solstice, means the Suo at
his utmost advance; so the Sun at the tropic, is literally the Sun at hil!l
tunJed tum: and I know not that any hieroglyphical art, could have ex-
pressed this station, or transit, more pertinently than we here find it. It is
the solar orb at its ne plw ultra, and that utmost advance, a curved turn.
Is further evidence required on this point? Julius Bate supplies us
with the Hebrew name itself of this solar transit, which was probably
technical also to the land of Canaan-and what does it mean?
He says that :l::lO (Sibib, or Sabab) means, "tke Tropic, from the Sun
or solar light, going to the south and turning about unto· the north:"
more literally, "turning about its turniog''-that is, if I might presume
to explain, Bate's explanation-making its curved trausition; or, passing
its point of re-turn; which is precisely in point to our purpose, and what
the hieroglyphical curve expresses.
Returning to our inquiry of, whether the present cylinder was a signet
used by the Sphragistre? it suggests others.-What should we naturally
expect would be the devices engraved on those sacred signets of the priest-
hood ? What else so likely as that they shonld bear reference to the prin·
cipal occasions of their being used? What devices were the astronomical
priests so likely to ordain and display, as those which were intimately
connected with, and denoted, the seasons of sacrifice? What, in short,
but the accredited celestial siGNs of those seasons?
Of these-the four principal-often termed the cardinal points,-some.
times the hinges of heaven, and upon which hung "all the Jaw and the
prophets" of the Sabrean nations of antiquity-were marked by the an-
nual returns of those stars which lign-ified the solstices and equinoxe."J.
I scarcely need to add, that the word cardiRal, is from the Latin cardo,
a hinge, or center of motion; and it will readily be apprehended here,
that, as heaven can have no llinges, literally and strictly speaking; and as
the word is Gf the earth, and far beneath the sublimity of heavenly ope-
Digitized byGoogle
s.n
rations, its astronomical use and proper meaning, can only have origi-
nated with such mechanical epitomes of heaven as were the A.slleriflf.
The modem term, is derived from the ancient hinged machine.
Having ascertained these matters to the best of my ability, and alS&
the meaning of the winged and radiating orb,-we must next endeavour
to discover that of the remainder of the engraved contents of this inte-
resting monument; namely, the hnman figures; the pointed stars, or as-
terisks; the small orbs which are in the upper part of the device; and the
engraved lines which so conspicuously proceed from them toward the
enthroned figure. We can then, with some hope of a successful result,
proceed to discuss and detail whether, and in what manner, these hiero-
glyphics conld have been connected with the sacred observances ofwhich
we ha¥e been discoursing. But this will require me to dip a little into
ancient astrology ; in doing which I can only engage to endeavour to
trespass as little as possible on the patience of the tl1aastrological reader.
The seven small orbs that are above the figures, and that nearly touch
the upper boundary-line of the engraving, I run small hazard in pro-
nouncing to be the Pleiades: the Succoth-bettotk of " the men of Baby·
Jon" and Canaan; the A.l-Tkuf'!Jaia of Arabia; the supposed Kimak of
the book of Job; the Virgilia of later times. Of all nations, the stars
and welcome signals, of heavenly vernal promise, and whose frequent
appearance on the Sabman cylinders, agrees so rt>markably with the fre-
quent mention of them in holy writ, in the oriental poetry, and in the
works of those more ancient classic poets who lived while the Ple'iades
led on the returning year, and were more especially venerated. How-
ever variously denominated by the star-worshipping nations, Amos, the
holy herdsman of Tekoa, writes of them as they present themselves on
the cylinders of Sir William Boughton, Mr. Rich, and others that I have
11een, simply as "the seven stars."•
*"Seek him tbat maketb ver.8, qftAeboolt qf
beautiful group were not only leading atars in the time ofAmoe, but excited additional obse"a-
'tion, and derived additional importance, from their pueing vertically over tbe Sabean climatea.
Digitized byGoogle
34!
It -will readily be perceived that engraved lines, indicating rays, -ol'
fluxes, of astrologic influence, pass from these seven stars toward the
enthroned and important perRonage who is introduced at the right-band
extremity of the impression from this gem. But some readers may re-
quire a more explicit account of these Jines.-
Sir Edward Sherburn, who in his translation of Manilius, writes
- " whilst we sing Apollo's aelf ehall play ;"*
yet who pens verses as if he would shew to how little purpose that deity
was invoked by an astronomical poet of the reign of Charles 11.-has
nevertheless enriched his laboured and unpoetical venJion of" the Sphere,"
with copious and learned notes, in the course of which he explains the
doctrines or notions that were held by the ancients, on the subject of
stellar aspects, and those consequent fluxes of astrological or congenial
virtue, io which those ancients were firm believers, and which indeed are
still prevalent among such persons as retain any pretension to the power
of astrological prediction. He says, "the aspects or mutual radiations
of the signs and stars, are the habitudes of one unto another in a deter-
minate distance in which they are apt to co.,operate; these are commonly
reckoned five in number, and are attributed to the signs and stars within
the zodiac, but are e:etetttkd likewise (we may suppose he means with
diminished influence) to tile relt. These CensorinDH calls coupectw;
the Arabs, almaraler ;" and in a note ·to page 18, we meet with these for.
ther astrological dogmata-that " in every asterism, or sign, of the zodiac,
a peculiar local tkity resides, and in every star belonging to one of those
constellations, a peculiar geniw, as the inferior ministers ·Of each deity,
whose virtue they believed to flow by an influx in form of a pyramid
whose basis contained the whole extent of the asterism... Sir.Edward
says this of the Egyptians: I here-suppose it to be at lea1t equally true
of the Sabmans of Canaan, ChaldeR, and
He then proceeds to explain these fluxes of supposed co-operation,
marking their characters and specifying their several virtues; but the
fact to which I wish to direct your attention and to impress on
* Sphere of Maniliua, folio edit. p. i.
Digitized byGoogle
343
memory is,· thaf these. specifications are the same which are to be found
in those modern books which treat of the influences of the stars, from
Milton's Paradise Lost, down to the commonest treatise on astrology;
namely, conjunction, opposition, sextile, quartile, and trine. Milton in-
deed, in conformity both with the popular faith of the orientals, and that
of his own Eurovean contemporaries, as well as with certain texts of
scripture which have already been cited-1 might say in conformity with
the facts of his univerMal learning-has given a degree of of ele-
vation, and of dignity, to the stellar science, from which-with the excep-
tion of those few who will warmly adopt it-present opinion will probably
revolt. After finishing the work of creation, he introduces the Deity, as
"calling forth by name his mighty angels," and giving them
" several charge
Aa aorted beat with present thinga. Tbe Sun
Had &rat bit precept--
To tbe blanch Moon,
Her office they : to tb' otlu:r Free
Their planetary motions, and upecta,
Io aextile, and trine, and oppoaite,
Of noxious efficacy ; and wben to join
In aynod unbenigu. And taught tlae Fi6'd
Their influence malignant, when to ahow'r;
Which of them riling willa tlae Stm; orfaUing,
Should prove tempeatuoua."
Let us next inquire, for whom may be intended the seated and beard-
less figure toward whom the lines of stellar influence are directed; let
us see whether we can recognise her on the sphere as it exists at present?
and whether she can have been esteemed as one of the decans, or parana-
tellons, of the sign Taurus, to which the Ple'iades belong?
It will be observed that she is attired in a richly ornamented habit,
which might well be esteemed royal ; that she holds forth a garland or
circular wreath, which appears to be intended either for stars Ol' flowers,
or for a crown of some sort; and that her head is bound by a jewel-fronred
Digitized byGoogle
344"
fillet, above which shines a radiant eight-pointed star. Is it Cassiopeia,
that
c• Fam'd lEthiop queen, who atrove
To eet her beauty'• prniee above
The sea-nymphs; and their pow'n offended ?"
I think it is: but we wilJ, if you please, proceed to a closer exami-
nation.
Some of the more ancient appellations of the stars of this consteJlated
queen, both among the Greeks and the Arabs, appear to have been taken
partly from the Cathedra, or chair on which she sits• enthroned, as well
as to have reference to the enthronement or inauguration of the ..Ethio-
pian monarchs, as we shall presently perceive; but the first syllable of
her proper name is taken, as I conceive and shall soon proceed to ex-
plain, from that of the patriarch Cosh, (the grandson of Noah and the
progenitor of Nimrod) to whose portion fell that land of Yemen or
..Ethiopia; and over which, in far distant ages, reigned her, whose beauty
and ambition have been sung by Milton, after being immortalised by the
most sublime of the sciences.
"The sons of Ham" (the immediate offspring of Noah) "were Cosh,
Mizraim, Phut, and Canaan. The sons of Cosh were Havilah,
Sabtha, Raama, and Sabthecab. The sons of Raamah, were Sheba and
Dedan." All t>f these latter are, by Volney and others, believed-with
great plausibility at least,-to be the proper names, not only of indivi-
dual persons,t but of tribeR and nations, whose geographical situation
was between the Arabian and Persian gulfs.
• It is curioua that this very ancient chair ahould so much resemble the old-faahioned moderDt
chain with high bacb: and the same is observable of the chain on which are seated the
sculptured monarchs of Peraepolia. But, under the Sun there is nothing absolutely new, saith
the preacher.
t Geddes aaye, "In the Hebrew idiom, the termsfath", son, begot, tDtU bona, imply notal-
ways immediate parentage, or filiation. The names in Genesis x. may therefore be those of
different c;olonies, although probably these colonies derived their original appellations from
founden."-Note to Gen. x.
Digitized byGoogle
345
The south-western part of this region, stretching along the larger por-
tion ofthe eastern shore of the Red Sea, bas been sometimes denominated
Yemen, which literally means happy; and as the .lEthiopia ofthe orientals,
or Eastern ./Ethiopia, was certainly Arabia, we have here distinctly
pointed out to us the country which is 'still called Arabia as being
that of the "fam'd .lEthiop queen." Other proofs of which will arise as
our inquiry proceeds.
" The first• star of the constellation of Cassiopeia (according to Sher-
burn) was by the Arabs called Caph-al-CMdib, i.e. Manw Tincta," (or
the stained hand). To this stait,, the artist of the present monument, or
the Sabrean priest who directed his operations, has not forgotten to allude,
in the marked display of the upper, or right, hand of this figure-though
the reason why this hand was thus denominated, is lost in the lapses of
·time and letters: but what I chiefly wished to remark here, was, that this
Caph-al-Ciu1dih could have been neither of the present bands of Cas-
siopeia, since there is no star of magnitude in or near them. It shews
subsequent alteration of the asterism; to the consideration of which I
shall return.
" The second star (of Cassiopeia) is called Dat-al-Cursa, i. e. Inthro-
nata" (or the enthroned), by which name the Arabs occasionally called
the whole constelJation :-This star appears to be the preient alpha,
which falls in with the front leg, or foot of the throne, in the illustrative
outline which I have introduced a few pages forward.
"The fifth is called Racba-ddt-al-Cursa, i.e. Genu lnthronata,"t or the
knee of the Inthroned.
* I cannot find why Sherburn should have called this the firu star, aince it is not tbe alplw.
of tbe constellation. It is, however, the tint of which he baa chosen to treat; and the shining
forth in the sixteenth century of her new and wonderful star, may haYe disarranged the original
order and relative importance of the stan of Caaaiopeia. I suppose the star meant by our
author, to be that which the reader will find in the outline a little furt!ter on,-not in the stained
band, but in the arm belonging to that band. .
t Translation of the Sphere of Manilius, folio, p. 29. The last named star falla in with the
knee both of the modern, and the Sabman queen of lEthiopia, and therefore makea nothing for,
or against, an argument which will presently be produced relative to the figure in question
baving been inverted, since the constellation was tint formed.
2T
Digitized byGoogle
346
We now arrive at the remarkable fact. that the more ancient name of
this queen, according to the same author, who cites Cicero and Tycho
Brabe, was Cusiopea (pronounced Kushiopea), in the initial syllable of
which, \te readily recognise the proper name of the patriarch Cosh-
which probably at the first had some primitive oriental feminine addition,
but which has since been terminated by the Greeks in their own harmo-
nious manner. J shall not trouble you with the details of thoseetymo-
logical travels on this quest, which have led to the conclusion that Cnsh-
iopea literally signified the black or moorish queen Cui, or queen of
Cosh.
Tycho Brahe seems to have been in possession ofsome information re-
specting the local history of that group of northern asterisms
to which Cassiopeia belongs, which is otherwise lost to the moderns, or
at least is hidden from me. With honest pride quoting the Roman
orator, he says that Cepheus was a great astronomer, or rather a great
favourer or patron of the professors of that science; who, in grateful
acknowledgment of his encouragement of their studies, gave to those
northern constellations the names of the monarch himself, his queen, and
his daughter ;-that is to say, the grateful astronomers immeasurably
overpaid whatever patronage could have been conferred on earth, by
raising the royal family to heaven.
Tycho further reports, that in the time of Cepheus, those stars which
form the constellation Cassiopeia rose with the first degrees of Aries;
from which statement evolves a very interesting astronomical theorem,
which only an appeal to a globe mounted, as mine is mounted, could
satisfactorily demonstrate.
By the Danish astronomer's mentioning the first degrees of Aries, he-
clearly means to speak of the dodecatemorial spaces, or what has been
termed the intellectual zodiac: indeed the stars of Aries may be put out
of the question, since they would carry us back to somewhere about the
advent of creation-if not beyond it.
I find that when the chief stars of Cassiopeia (or CusAiopea) arose with
the first degrees of Aries, the arctic pole of the equator must have been
very near the alpha Draccmis, and the coJure of the summer solstice-
Digitized by Google
have passed a trifle to westward of the tklta Leqnis: .
to come to nume-
rals, it must have cut the ecliptic inVirgo 7•, which is 67° from its present
place. If these 67° be multiplied i,l}to 72 years, (the rate ofprecesaion), it
gives a result of 4,824-, or about 3,000 rears B. C. This is rather too
early for the era of the patria,rch C.usb (whom I aiJl led to identify
the Chepheus or Cepheus of profane bistQcy), to the commonly
received Bible chronology,-but not according tp that of $eptuagint,
which Sir William Dr.u.mmond, after a critical says be d.
oes
"not scruple to adopt."• Josephus too, and the Samaritan .text of the
Holy Scriptures, agree to this greater age of the world ; and wemay re-
collect that, since some astronomers haye estinaated the rate of
to be but 71 years and a small fraction of days, to a degree, this would
occasion a difference of above half a century in so long a reckoning.
I trust, Sir William, that I am honoured with your sympathy here:-
That the solution which I have lain before you, possesses an interest that
is at least worthy ofthe pause we are making. Beside the illustration and
astronomical developement of a very distant and curious historical fact,
I find it in just coincidence with a computation regarding the date of the
present cylinder, which will be submitted to your attention toward the
close of the present epistle. As I fall in from time to time with rich veins
-which appear to tend toward mines of antiquarian wealth-do I By off'
too frequently, or too far, from those little gems which are my osten-
sible subject? Had I not been persuaded that these little matters were
connected with great ones, I should not have solicited yours or the
public attention toward them, nor have bestowed on them so much of
my own.
We are further indebted to Tycho f9r transmitting another precious
piece of information concerning Cassiopeia. He writes that ••der tlte
stars qf their canonized quem, the Altkiopiam ever qfterward proeeedetl to
solemnize the inaugu.ratitm qf the successors qf Cepheus, and this, in me-
morial of THEIR FIRST MoTHER CussiOPEA ; in which very remarka!Jle
·* On this subject the reader •hould not merely perute, but lhllly what Sir William Drum-
mond baa penned in the earlier pages of bia diuertation on the zodiacs of Eane and Dendera.
2T2
Digitized byGoogle
sentence-1 adopt it on the authority of the learned Sherburn*-we not
only perceive that Cushiopea lived in the primitive ages, but also the pro-
bable reason why in the present instance she holds forth a crown.
'This crown, I strongly suspect-indeed 1 believe it, for reasons which
will follow-to be no other than the Atarotk of the ancient oriental astro-
nomy ;-the present stellated Corona Borealis; a wreath of stars remark,
ably circular in their arrangement, whose number is that of the wreath·of
small balls held forth on our cylinder by the queen, and whose rising in
the southern latitudes ofAsia, is simultaneous with setting ofCushio-
pea. These also are remarkable and luminous facts.
Aratus treats of the Northern Crown of course as a Grecian asterism,
next in order to Bootes ;.and says that
" Near him a wreath of sacred radiance glows :
The studded stars from Ariadne rose :
Once her rich crown.
But since I have studied the Chaldean antiques, I have learned to
think little of those Greek legends which relate to the heavenly pheno-
mena. In these ancient mysteries, much more is sometimes meant than
meets the ear ; though not in the present instance, than meets the scien-
tific eye and the reflective mind. The ascendant crown is in beautiful
poetic analogy with the commencement of a new reign : How its ascen-
sion in the heavens, at certain devotional seasons, in the clear nocturnal
skies of this oriental climate, which Voltaire calls " the land of fine
nights:" How it must have awakened the loyal and ihe pious enthusiasm
* Note to the Sphere of Maniliu1, p. 29. I have not yet been able to trace the authorities
ofTycho Brahe and Sherburn, which they ought to have mentioned; for I cannot find that
Cicero, whom they do mention, says more on the subject than "nee 1tellatu1 Cepl,eus cum ruore,
genero, jilia, tradcretur, nisi ctZle1tium divina cognitio nomen eorum ad crrorem fabultZ
Sherburn, though certainly no poet, a man of profound science and a scholar, as well as
Tycbo Brahe: and their works cannot be read without a thorough conviction that they were
both too honest and disinterested, to put furward an unfounded atatement of the above kind.
That no purpose of deception could possil,ly be intended, is clear from Tycho's adding hi' sup-
position that Custiopea, ought more probably to have been called Cassiepea.
Digitized byGoogle
349
of a people to whom astronomy was religion! would require a Coleridge
or a Byron adequately to conceive and express. I shall not attempt it.
When Cusbiopea sets, the Northern CrowQ, having the same latitude with
herself, ascends from the cusp of the horizon ; and wben the constellated
queen rises, in Canaan or the Phamician latitudes, the crown is in its
meridian altitude and not far from the zenith. These are mystical and
important coincidences. The former is an interesting astrological appo-
sition, independently of its poetical analogies, and happened in the low
latitudes of precisely at the season which may be supposed to
be specified on ou1· cylinder (as I shall presently do myself the honour to
shew) :-the latter-the culminating crown with its quartile interchange
of radiance with the ascendant stars-a Chaldean adept would pronounce
to be the post of highest honour and most potent celestial influence.-
Could these correlative circumstances have happened thus, without design
on the part ofthose who first constellated the heavens? We seem to per-
ceive here, the very motives existing in the minds of the astro-
nomers of genius, more than forty centuries ago! They must have or-
dained that the circular wreath which arose as the queeQ.
quitted the upper hemisphere, should be called the Atm·oth, or Crown,
which is in full harmony, or coincidence, with the legal monarchical fic-
tion of modern times that, "the·crown never dies." .
Among those ancient authorities that are most worthy of credit when
the birth-place of the Chaldean superstition is inquired for, there is, as
before intimated, a consentaneous pointing toward the southern shores
of the Arabian peninsula: Lucian and Cicero, as we have seen, are ex-
press in their references to the oriental Plato, in his Epino-
mis,• is the same. Herodotus and the authorities relied on by Sherburn
* That the Greeks borrowed the first rudiments of their astronomy from abroad, ia owned
in thij remarkable passage from Plato's Epinomis. " The first who observed these things waa
a Barbarian, who lived in an ancient country where, on account of the clearness of the summer
season, they could first discover them. Such are Egypt and Syria, where the stars are clearly
seen, there being neither rains nor to hinder their sight. And because we are more
reroute from thi11 fine summer weather, than the Barbarian11, we came later to the knowledge of
the stars.'' Under the term Syrians, the Greeks comprehended the people properly called
A3tlyrians : &uch were the Chaldeans and the Arabians bordering upon them called in scriptufe
Digitized byGoogle
300
and by Volney, say, the caste of astrological priests (tlte ChalciC.ns) were
originally termed Chephenes, and were so termed from Cbepbeus, the
.&thiopian king. Stanley says they were called Cbasdim or Chusdim
from the patriBI'ch Cllu.• Mr. Bryant asserts that Chus, and Evecbous.
were the same :-the Evecl&ovs of Africanus, he says, is literally tl&e great
Owh: and it were easy by his etymological process (or even by a pro-
cess more simple and probable than most of his) to convert Evechous in
sound to Chepheus; namely, by transposing the ci from the middle to
the beginning of this name.
That thisgreat Lord Cosh must have been without subjects or depen-
dents, at so early a period of the postdiluvian world, may perhaps be
objected; but Ethiopia bad probably a dynasty of princes of that name
in the same manner that Syria had her Adads and .Egypt her PharaobtJ,
and the great patron ofastronomy may not have been Cush the first, al-
th&ugb the first was probably the canonised Cosh. To the constellated
..&thiopian king, however, I .shall pay more particular and prolonged at-
tention probably at a future day. It is the country over which this mo-
narch reigned, which claims our attention at present.
" That the people of Yemen, known to the Greeks at a )ate period by
the name of Homerites or Sabreans, had a regular government and a series
of kings whose origin is lost in tbe remotest antiquity; that the order of
succession was very often interrupted either by civil wars, or by wars with
the Abyssinian lEthiopians :who l&ad tlu same manners and the satne lma-
guage; that these·kings, habitually masters of Yemen, properly so called,
·were often so likewise of the country of Hadramaut and other frontiert
Cruh, and by other writers lEthiopioN. It is of thue lEthiopians, and not of the African, that
Lucian must be understood, when he tella us that the lEthiopians.ftm took notice of the hea-
venly motions."-Co#ard'•Hilt. of Jfltron. p.ll4.
• Cush baa been variously spelled u well u Kepheus. We find Cluu, Cruh, and sometimes
CWA-(the last ia perhaps originally a written representation of.a lisping enunciation of the
name)-but in Tery remote ages, how should it be othenriae?
t The northern frontier of thie Arabian lEthiopian appears to have reached during the patri-
archal agea, at leut u far as the land of Midian and the foot of Mount Horeb; for the dau&h-
ter of &he priest of Midiao-tbe Zipporah whom Moses married this place-ia in the book of
Numbera termed "an lEtbiopian woman."
Digitized byGoogle
36l
districts, and had a territory at least six times more considerable than
that of the Hebrews before the schism of Samaria; that the first and
habitual residence of these kings was the city of Mareb, called also Saba;
and, that long bifore the kiftgS of the Hebrews, those of y had made
remote expeditions"-is all asserted in Count Volney's "researches," on
old Arabian authorities, and on that of Schultens, and is perfectly con-
sistent with, and even confirmatory of, the engraved contents of our cylin-
der, whether we regard it as a production of Canaan, or of the oriental
lEthiopia.
Indeed the inhabitants of these countries, at the distant epocba of
which we are treating, were sprung from the same stock. Herodotus, in
the very outset of his history, says, "the Phamicians migrated from the
borders of the Red Sea, to the place of their present settlement;" and in
a subsequent part of his work, repeats of them "this people, by their
mun. account, once inhabited the coasts of the Erythrean sea; but migrated
from thence to the maritime parts of Syria." We are here presented with
their own tradition, obtained from the Phomicians or Canaanites them-
selves, by the accurate and truth-telling4t Herodotus: and we immediately
perceive bow the nations of Yemen, (or ..Ethiopia) and Canaan, came to
be of the tmme aud also how very ancient must have been
the worship of the Host of Heaven, in the Arabian peninsula, as well as
on the banks of the Euphrates and the shores of the Mediterranean.
Mr. Bryant too has commendably bestowed a considerable portion of
learning on this obscure part of ancient history, and has adduced other
venerable authorities in proof of the early existence of this Sabmo-Arabian
* See Clio, cap. i. and Polymnia, luxix. I hazard tbe above epithet, notwithstanding the
se-..ere remarks of some of those who have criticised the father of profane history, and the ridi-
cule of others. Were it only for the light which he hu thrown on the ancient signets by his two
nluable recorda, that every Auyrian pouesaed a signet, and that the sacred victima were aealed
by the Spbragiste, I ebould feel deeply indebted to him ; but all muat be iodebted.. and muat.
ever remain so, to an historian who details what be witneued with scrupulous fidelity, and who
always takes care to afford U!l the means of distinguishing between what he actually 51W, and
what be heard, or reports on the authority of others. I believe I hue quoted one of the above
passages from Herodotus before'; but I bad nearly forgotten it, and can have no right to ezpect
more from the reader's memory than from my own, upon such an occuion.
Digitized byGoogle
352
people, and their connexion with the Babylonian Chaldeans. Among the
valuable results of the last volume of his Mythology-(it is but justice
to say this, notwithstanding some of his etymological vagaries)-will be
found that the or Chaldeans, were descended from Cosh, and
that they were ab-origine, the same people with the Arabians.
In venturing to treat,-or in venturing to attend to those who under-
take to treat-of the very remote period when language was only vocal
and orthography could not have existed, we cannot forget how heedlessly
and how differently the same words are sometimes uttered rather than
pronounced,· by those who cannot spell, and who live a few leagues
apart. Yet, relying thus little on ancient etymological evidence, and in
the modern versions of such evidence, I may here beg leave to enter a
distinction between the strange, punning, whimsical, vagaries offar-fetched
literal conjecture, which are oft-times ridiculous, and the direct and point
blank etymon which presents itself along with the records of Plato,
Cicero, and Lucian, that 1Ethiopia, or Ath-opia, according to Bryant's
reading,-was the country where astronomy originated. n'N or ./Eth-
iopea, is literally the land or country of mystic, or celestial, signs; in all
probability because such signs were there originaJJy worshipped. As
many of the towns and monntainR of AMMyria and Canaan bore astrono-
mical names,• and as the whole land of Egypt was astronomically di-
vided (its nomes being astro-nomes), so here, the country or land ofCush
was collectively called the land or place of Signs: that is to say, the land
or place, where the stars were first constellated; where the signs of heaven
were at first invented, and were afterward venerated.
Here is no circumlocutory refinement; the primitive word and its mean-
ing having travelled directly down to us from the most remote ages;
whilst from Herodotus we learn that 1Ethiopia was also a land of signets;
for, treating of those 1Ethiopians who (in after ages, certainly) marched
under the standard of Xerxes, he says, " they barb their arrows with the
same kind of stone with which the9 cut their seals."
I should be disposed to infer that some, if not many, of the engraved
• Such as Baal-Berith, Baal-Ammon, Beth-Daion, Beth-shan, and Asterotb-Karnaim. The
belhl being places where temples or tabernacles were erected to Dagon, to tbe Sun, &c.
Digitized byGoogle
353
cylinders which have found their way to Europe-this of Cushiopia a.nd
the solar orb is perhaps of the number-may have been brought originally
by the caravans from the Oriental1Ethiopia, concerning which in modern
times our travellers have been able to supply us with so little of certain
information. That first Phamician colony which is mentioned by Hero-
dotus, may, under the attendant localities, the knowledge of which we
derive from the early scriptures and other sources of information, easily
be supposed to have been a caravan of itinerant merchants, who were in-
duced to take up their permanent abode in the land of milk and honey.
I believe tbat these 1Ethiopian Canaanites were the first travelling traf-
fickers that the world ever saw ;-were those on whose commercial and
picturesque processions, infant Nature first looked forth with wondet
from her rudest tabernacle; their merchandise consisting chiefly ofgold,
gems, (or frankincense) cassia, and other aromatics, and perfumes;
and that the word Canaan, in its primitive signification, denoted mer-
clumts. 1Eschylus, in his tragedy ofTbe Suppliants, of which the time
is $bout a century after that of Moses, a11ndes to them as
•• The wand'ring Indians mounted on their camels,
Along tbe tented plains outstretching wide
To .IEtbiopia'• citiee."
I have hitherto termed these ancient Cushites, orientallEthiopians. Per-
haps I should have been more clearly understood, bad I written Asiatic,
or .Arabian, 1Ethiopians-but in fact, the initial syllables in the words
Orient and Arab, have precisely the same meaning, and had originally
the same sound, the A being pronounced broadly, as .Au: the variations
obtained, during those early ages when every man's orthography was
governed by his own notions of the phonetic powers of individual letters•
.A.ur-abia; Ur-abia (the birth-land of Abraham); .Ar-abia, are all from the
primitive or radical ,N, subsequently written ,,N-meening ligllt or fire,
and so is Or-ient, which might be spelled .Aurient, since it is a literal allu-
sion to the day-spring; the source of ligllt-the place of the rising Sun.
The Aurabian lEthiopians then, were the people eastward of the Ara-
bian gulf, and the order of their migrations westward and northward
2u
Digitized byGoogle
3M
hat-e been noticed by Hesiod and by Strabo; and retraced by V
They were the " wise men ol the· east;" ad with their gold,·
gems, frankincense, and myrrh, appear to have travelled the arts and
sciences as they were then known and practised.
Assyrian science and Phamician art, appear to have proceeded from
this once happy and flourishing peninsula. Homer sinp of " Sidoaian·
art," and of their sculptured ivory and metals, upoa varioue occasioas-
among them, I believe, the bowl which Nestor presented to Telemachus,
and the fastening-ornament of the dress of Ulysses, (an engraved gem,)
were 'both of Sidonian workmanship. Sidon, in Syria, was fo•nded, ac..
cording to Strabo, by those Sidonians of the coast of the Arabian gulf,
who are mentioned by Hesiod: and Dionyeius alludeS to their parent
station in the following lines :
" Upon the great Atlantic, near the isle
Of Erytbrea, for ita ptuture•• famed,
De 118C'Utl f'tllf:e qf lEtltiOJfiaM dwell!'
I see too, by a note to Or. Good's IParnPrl vPrsion of Job (p. 295) that
Montucla, (whoby the Doctor is pronounced to be Iearoed and modest-
though Sir William Drummond does not say so), after the best opportuni-
ties ofdiscussing the interesting question ofthe origin orastronomy;-after
reading what Newton aad Costard had written in favour ofGreece; Bailly
in favour of some supposed lost northern nation, and Sit· William Jones
in favour of Chaldea and Persia,-is of opinion that Arabia was the real
parent of tke science. I have not met with Montucla's " History of the
Mathematical Sciences," nor do I know whether he has the smallest
vertence to sculptured monuments, such as are here before us, which so
greatly tend to the confirmation of his general conclusion.
Between the geography and the chronology of Count Volney, the
scriptural genealogies, and the engraved contents of our antique monu-
ment, there exists no dissonance : on the contrary, they are in tolerable
harmony ; for though Volney traces the Homeritish or Sabrean kings of
• Perieg. ver. 558, &c. The mention ofpastures in these venea-Doet it not appear to indi·
cate the ancient aeat of those invaders of EgJpt, who were termed Shephcrcla?
Digitized byGoogle
356
Yemeo, up to twelve generations anterior to Ninus, with a doubtful or
fabulous ascent of four others, who, like the antediluvian patriarchs, are
-each said to have lived and' reigned for several centuries, he does DOt
arrive at Chepheus, or the Great Lord Cusb.
But Jet us not sojourn too long in these regions of doubt and obscurity.
-Had your learned and liberal friend Sir William Ouseley, or had theeater-
-prising Sir R. K. Porter, enjoyed the opportunity oftraversing the Arabian
peninsula with the same topographical care which they have evinced in
their Persian researches, I have little doubt that discoveriH would thaoe
have been made, deeply interesting to the astronomical, the chronological,
and the geographical, antiquaries of .Europe. What the former bas die-
covered in the neighbourhood of Bushire, reads very much like vestiges
of the same ancient ..Ethiopian people, and renders it not unlikely that
their power at some period reached to beyond the northern extremity of
the Persian gulf. Gibbon'ij delightful account of these Arabian regions
appears so pertinently and so poetically to belong to a seat of· ancient
science, that even though my argument should not be thought to derive
support from it, the reader oftaste who with Milton and with Gibbon can
believe so much of a torrid climate, will " bless his stars and think it
luxury;" and both him and the writer, after a refioeshing turn in these ex-
hilarating groves, will retum with recraited attention to the severer con-
siderations that belong to sculpture and astronomy.
"The kingdom of Yemen (he says) displays the limits, or at least the
situation, of Arabia Felix."-
" The high lands that border on the Indian ocean are distinguished by
their superior plenty of wood and water; the air is more temperate, the
fruits are more delicious, the animals and the human race more nume-
rous; the fertility ofthe soil invites and rewards the toil of the husbaad-
man; and the peculiar gifts of frankincense and coffee have attracted in
-different ages the merchants o( the world. If it be compared with the
rest of the peninsula, this sequestered region may truly desene the appel-
lation of the Happ1; and the splendid colouring of fancy and fiction bas
,heen suggested by contrast and countenanced by distance. It was for
this earthly paradise that nature bad reserved her choicest favours and her
2112
Digitized byGoogle
•ost carious workmanship: the incompatible blessings of luxury and
innocence were ascribed to the natives : the soil was impregnated with
gold and gems, and both the land and sea were taught to exhale the
odours of aromatic sweets."-1 suspect that these aromatic sweets, and
particularlythefrankiRcmse-but perhaps also the ciRMmoa, (or cassia)-
which the Sabreans of Arabia annually burned in such immense• quan-
tities in honour of their solar deity,-will carry us with more
ward settling the question in favour of the Asiatic than the re-
cords of history ; for I never heard that the former of these aromatics
was produced in Africa, and have some doubt about the latter.
With what sentiment the Su.n received these periodical honours, we are
not informed; but Milton beautifully sings, that when the spicy odours
were blown by the north-east wind from the Sabman coast,
'' - many a league,
Pleas'd with the grateful scent old Ocean
Having ascertained-as I should lwpe the learned would allow-the
original name and country of the constellated Cassiopeia and the Corona
Borealis, with the analogical and astral reasons of the latter being in the
present instance held forth by the queen, we turn our. atten-
tion to what remains of the engraved contents of this curious monument;
after which our present speculation shall close with such astronomical
references · as may lead to au ascertainment of the era when it was
engraven.
The two large eight-pointed asterisks which appear near the upper
bo.undary-line of the engraving, are doubtlf>.ss intended for stars of mag-
nitude and of ominous presage. That which is a little to the left of the
.Ple'iades,·I should suppose to be Al-debarAn, which holds this station
on the stellar charts, and in the heavens. That which is above ·Cushi-
opia will call for our future attention; but if I am not mistaken, will
eventually appear to be the more ancient
Of the two human figures which stan(] before Cushiopia, as if ap-
proaching her, and on either side of Al-debarAn, one will be observed to
* Menlaorld, aa quoted by the Abbe Banier in bia Mythology, 11ol. i. p. 51'4.
Digitized by Google
3M'
be a bearded figure,' the other' is afemale who not unfreqnently makes
her appearance on the Sabrean · cylinders. As Andromeda was there..
corded daughter of Cepheus and Cassiopeia, and is, of the old forty-eight
constellations, the only extra-zodiacal female that is above the horizon
under the assumed circumstances of the celestial phenomena, I might
perhaps have supposed the present figure to have been intended for that
devoted virgin, had I not recognized her in a more unquestionable shape,
on other of these cylindrical gems.
From the station occupied by this female; or beardless figure, beneath
the stars of Taurus, which station she occupieR both on the present gem
and on others which I have seen, particularly one which I shall ·produce
at the head of the next essay, from the cabinet of the British Resident at
Baghdad-I conceive her to be a lost or displaced asterism, who in the
Sabrean system engaged some of the stars which have since been denO-.
minated those of Erydanus and ·of CettU. In the·Erydanus, of which
the name imports the Grecian origin; and that it could nQt' have existed
in the older systetos, are several important stars, and among them one of
the second magnitude, which I conceived to have once belonged either to
this female, or her bearded companion. In Cetul:!l, the second star· is
called by the Arabs Caph-al-Giedma; i.e. the maimed or lopped Aand,
a name which seems to bear reference to the imperfect hand of our en-
graved figure, though it has no relevance whatever to a whale·or sea- ·
monster. Neither has any Erydanus,• or. any thing like a river, as yet
made its appearance among the Chaldean antiques that refer to this part
of the heavens, except the two streams from the situla ofAquarius.
We are here in quest chiefly of facts founded on the moRt extensive
comparisons that are at present within our reach; and due allowances
for our present uncertainties, will in common candour be made. If the
l'esurrection, or importation, of other astronomical sculptures should, as
• In the "Syntagma Arateorum" of Grotius, thia asterism {Erytlanus) is represented by a
human figure of a river god ; but a truth which must not be dissembled here, and which ia
noticed in an earlier portion of the present volume, is, that the figures introduced into the work
of Grotius, do not appear to be copied from any antique authorities; nor would I seek to esta•
bJitb an hypotheais upon evidence wbicli I see 10 great reason to distrust.
Digitized byGoogle
3:S8
they may, prove me to be mistaken in what I am about to IUIBel't,-bar-
ring thitS, I shQuld interpret that the male figure also of the present ey-
linder occupied a station on the astral charts of remote antiquity,
where hereabout.
An engraved line appears on the preaent cylinder-similar to those
which seem to conduct the eftluent virtues ofthe Ple·iades toward the stars
in the head of Cushiopia-wbicb engraved line ascends perpendicuiarly
from this male figure to the Ple·iades. It is doubtless meant to indicate
some species of connexion; and I submit that it affords ground for con-
jecturing this figure to be intended for a constellated .Atlas, the reputed
invt:lltor of the sphere; and classical, that is to say, the fabled, father of
the Ple·iades, otherwise called (after him) Atlaotides. Between this figure
and the ..Ethiopian queen, there is an evident, though but faint, indica-
tion, expressed by other such lines, of an interchange of radiance, or
communication of astral virtue. Now the Lw:ida and the star
Ofllicron in £rydanus, are precisely on the same meridian, and are also oa
that which I suppose to )lave been originally, (i.e. before the Greeks in-
verted her figure), the place of the head and upper band of Cushiopia.
"The stars in their courses," therefore, which "fought agairut Sisera,"
are so far in my favour: but I am not sure whether Time, who destroys
all things, may not be against me. I shall endeavour to ascertain the
chronology of Atlas in my next paper.
I would willingly have dismissed these two figures for the present, with
this short and glimmering notice, (for so 1 confess it to be), in order that
our and catastrophe may not be too long delayed ; but a
friend, whose opinion I respect, bas suggested that the female is " the
Arabian Zohara, or Mylitta of Herodotus," and Lichtenstein also, who
has the reputation of being learned in oriental lore, bas the same idea of
identifying a duplicate of the figure, with the Arabian Venus. But who
(it may be asked) shall presume of the Mylitta of Herodotus to make any
thing else?-Who? Why Mr. Bryant:
---" whose talents are such,
That you scarcely can praise him or blame him too
Mr. Bryant will tell you that the Mylitta of the Babylonians, is Me-
Digitized by Google
Iitts, or Melissa. He cannot proceed through a single pagE"-bardly
through a sentence-without trusting to these slippery stepping-stoDes,
whether his purpose be t.o cross a brook, or surmount a deluge. But, he
proceeds; " it is the same in purport"-that is, Mylitta, or Me-
liMa, is " the same in purport, as Baris, Cibotus, Aren, Larnax,
Bc:eotus, and Seira !-Further, we are taught that it is in fact a bee, a
fountain, an hive, an ark! Here we stop, and our erudition is brought
to an anchor on the heights of his etymological Ararat. And this has
passed current for correct analysis and critical philosophy!
As I have already intimated, the female figure in question, appears again
on a Babylonian cylinder of which Mr. Rich has sent home an outline
from Baghdad, and it appears as iu the present instance, beneath the chief
stars of Taurus. It also recurs, with herfaee t.med tile e011trar!J way, oa
a gem of which Lichtenstein has favoured the public with an enlarged
outline in his "Paleograpbia Assyrio-Persico," copied from an antique
in the Florentine collection. Perhaps this scholar, or his artist, did not
copy an imprun011 .from the original engraving, but developed aod en..
larged the device from the cylinder itself; or, if be did so copy, his en-
graver (coneeiving it probabl1 to be of no consequence) did not reverse
it on the copper. But it may be that I am pursuing reasonings too
far; since, turning the figure in representation, might have been one
of the current means among the Sabatans, ol displaying. difference ·
between one astrological aspect and aDOther.
Lichtenstein, however, as before intimated, pronouDCes our lemale to
he the Zobara, or Venus Urania, of the Arabians; but in the course of his
explications would identify this goddess with the Moon r
Now, on neither ofthe gems which I exhibit, nor on the Florentine gem,
unless 1 am much mistaken, can she represent either the Moon or the
planet Venus, I shall prove, in a future page, that when the Moon was
personified, it was quite in another manner; and if, a moment, we
could suppose the planet Venus to be here intended, the next moment's
reflection must destroy the supposition. Her being in the present in-
stance, as I shall soon proceed to establish, posited at fhree signs
distant from the Sun, would be disproofw..fficieat; for the distaoce of
Digitized byGoogle
3(-;0
Venus'from that luminary, can never much exceed an octant of the sphere.·
But concerningCuMhiopia, and her habitual association on these astro-
nomical monuments, with one of these mysterious figures, I expected
flex light from finding them engraved on the under surface of a scarabzus
of green jade, or jasper, which reposes in the British Museum. The en-
graving is performed in a very uncouth style, consisting ofa large propor-
tion of drill-bore work, accompanied by early eJfortH of the lathe and
wheel, or of some earlier and inferior instrument, but the principal figure
is evidently that of the seated Cushiopia, and as it bears a verbal in-
scription on the exergue, I confidently anticipated more or less ofantiqua-
rian information, when I should find a scholar able to read it. Alas f in
this I have been disappointed. None of my oriental friends on this side
the British Channel, have been able to decypher it.
If, as bas been supposed, the aborigines of Egypt were of the lank-
haired .lEthiopian race, who in very remote ages crossed the Erythrean
sea, and afterward descended the Nile from Abyssinia and from Meroe,
the engraving is most likely in its origin, if not in its execution, an .lEthi-
opian work, and of very remote antiquity. The under surfaces of none
of the other scarahmi--of which l havP- examinP.cl more than thirty-at all
resemble it. But the constellated Cusbiopia, as she appears on our
cylinder, with the pole-star above her bead, are evidently displayed on it,
though in a style of art very inferior; the chief difference between the two
figures being, notwithstanding, worthy of especial notice-namely, that
for some astronomical reason which we must endeavour to discover,
the Cushiopia C?f the scarabreus does not, she does on the cylinder,
bold forth the Cot·ona.
The scarabreus displays also the seven Ple'iades, Atlantides, or Suc-
cotb-benoth, ranged in a line parallel to the back of the qneen's chair;
'Al-debarAn and the Hyades being above; the Crux-ansata, which has
since become the conventional sign of the planet Venus, below ; and one
of our dubious standing before Cushiopia-but, I confess I am
uncertain which: the sculpture is so uncouth, that," in truth 'twere hard
to say" whether a dressed beard, or a protuberant breast, be intended by
the artist to be shewn between the shoulder and upper hand of this figure.
Digitized by Google
361
I haveaccurately copied it, in the hope that the verbal inscription may meet
with a decypherer, and that the reader may judge for himself of the rest.
: .l "> . t·.'.•,·:r• /":".':'.·
:r ;. ,'i.' l '.: ri.V .( , ···.:.··.•/. ·.-:
I introduce this scarabmus in apposition to the cylinder, and trust
that it will not be esteemed foreign to our Sabrean researches, nor di-
gressing·rrom our immediate purposE', if I offer the following short inter-
pretation of itA contents independently of the verbal inscription.
It appears to me (like many of the engraved cylinders) to be the &oro-
scopic signet of some individual who had the fortune to be born before
sun-rise in the morning, in the summer season, the Suo being in Scarabreus
{2:0) at the time. I suppose Cusbiopia, and the Pleiades which are
seen arranged along the back of her chair, to have ascended at the hour
of this nativity, and Al-debarAn and the Hyades (the later stars ofTaurus)
which appear in agroup between the figures and on the upper part of
the gem, to have been in· all probability just above the horizon :-Venus,
Digitized byGoogle
·
...
of auspicious ·aad pleasurable omen, being the morning star, and lady of
the ascendant.
I infer this with regard to the planet Venus, from finding her present
diagrammatic symbol (9), the Crux ansata, sculptured in the field of the
stone, beneath-and constructively on the same meridian with,-AI-de-
barAn and the Hyades; consequently in her proper domicile of Taurus,
where she is esteemed to be most potent. And since, between Taurus
and Cancer,-which latter I have supposed to be the place of the Suo,
there intervenes but the single sign Gemini, this might very well happen,
and the planet Venus be at her requisite astronom.cal distance from the
greater luminary.
This device on the Scarabaeus, when taken with the subject of the cy-
linder, goes also to shew that the above named stars, together with the
problematical figure, and the star which in both cases appears over the
head of the enthroned queen, were habitually associated in the Sabman
horoscopes, consequently in their stellated charts; and ergo, that the
said problematical figure, (as before surmised), is not a personified planet,
but an ancient decan, or southern paranatellon, of Taurus.
The classical legends respecting Cassiopeia, agree that she was an
Ethiopian queen, the wife of Cepheus; but add, that she gave offence
to Neptune or to Nereus, by boasting herself to be fairer than the sea-
nymphs, "in consequence of which, tl&q she was thrown up among
the stars, and there placed with her head downward, as a punishment
for her confidence and pride."•
The latter part of this legend is very lame ; but the manner in which
the Greek fabulists have related it, goes to confirm the assertion of Lord
Verulam, that those who reported these ancient stories, neither invented,
nor thoroughly understood, them. He " whom the king delighteth to
honour" he decorateth with terrestrial stars : who then would ever dream
of inflicting constellation "as a punishment?"-Such punishment, would
indeed be too incredibly singular, for the idea oo obtain, except for a
moment's ridicule. Beside, since Cassiopeia circurnscribu the pole, in
• Dr. John Hill's Urania, the "Sphere" of Jrfanilius; and the Cla•ical Dictiouariea in general.
oigitized .by Coogle
363
her diurnal revolution-whether her heels are upward or not, must of
course depend on the season of the year and time of the night.
Yet he who will please to recollect, or look at, the stars of this con-
stellation in the abstract, as they appear in nature, or on Cary's large
globe, which is without the surrounding celestial forms, may easily sa-
tisfy himself by their relative situations or arrangement, that the legend
has some foundation; that the Greeks have actually been guilty of the
sacrilege to ancient science, of turning the original figure of the .£thio-
pian queen upside down; and that the stars when reversed, have a very
remarkable and convincing conformity with the figure of our enthroned
Sabman Cushiopia. For the purpose of manifesting this curious ancient
fact, and some others which have been stated concerning her stars seve-
rally, I exhibit outlines, both of the antique and modern figures, studded
with the principal stars of the constellation-the modern being copied
from the accurate planisphere of Mr. Heming.
Another curious fact emerges also from this rolling off of the Grecian
clouds, and this restitution of .Engraved lines of astral ef-
fluence have been observed to pass from the Ple·iades of our cylinder to
the face of the queen; and when she is thus reinstated, the meridional or
longitudinal lines of the globe which pass through the pass
also through the head of Cushiopia-that is to say-the stars of her
head and the Ple·iades have the very same longitude, and were simulta-
neous in their setting when the pole of the equator was, where 1 shall
shew that it must have been when this Sabman engraving was produced ;
moreover, the star which is near the skirt of her robe, according to the
arbitrary representations of some of the moderns, becomes that of her
forth-held hand, called hy Arabs, as I have before noticed, Caplwll-
CAadib. Now it is impossible to suppose that the Arabs would have
called a star in the skirt of Cassiopeia's robe, and which is in truth,
much more near herfoot, by the name of the stained hand. They must
have been acquainted with the original figure, as she presents herself
on the scarabmus of the British Museum and on the Boughton cy-
linder.
But beside Cicero, the Arabs, Tycho Brahe, and the engraved scara-
2 X
Digitized byGoogle
364
hams, I have another to call in attestation of these very remote
and curious particulars, when I have said a word or two as to the degree
of credit to which be is entitled.
In an earlier part of this volume, I believe that I have expressed some
doubt as to the authenticity of the .Egyptian planispheres-if such they
be-which have been published by father Kircher: by which I would
rather be understood to invite those who may be able, to prove them to
be authentic, than to insinuate that Athaoasius Kircher was an intentional
impostor. My suspicion is, that he compiled these planispheres. That
he took some parts from actually existing monuments-some from one,
and some from another-and filled up the rest from his reading, with
perhaps a little too much help from an ardent imagination :-so that.they
are neither entirely authentic, nor entirely otherwise. But I may be mis-
taken; and the number of antiquarian fallacies that 1 have detected, may
have made me too generally suspicious.
Should antique authorities exist for that part of his chart of the north-
ern hemisphe're which includes the asterisms between the sign Taurus
and the arctic pole, they would be found to afford an interesting corro-
boration of the truths above stated, particularly with regard to the inver-
sion of the figure of Cushiopia, and her ancient mythological and astro-
nomical connexion with the Ple·iades.
Kircher's planisphere has no measured degree8, but its author has re-
moved the asterisms westward into the dodecatemorial spaces: that is to
say, the asterism Taurus into the dodecatemorion of Aries, Aries into
that of Pisces, and so on round the zodiac: hence it corresponds with
this part of our present northern plaoisphere, when the 30 degr·ees of
Taurus are centered in the pole of the .Ecliptic: for in Kircher's, immedi-
ately above the Bull, is delineated a Hen and chickens, and immediately
above these, sits our.lEthiopian queen :-not" with her heels upward," or
as the Greeks have transmitted her, but more as she appears on the pre-
sent cylinder-the chief differences being that the Cathedra is here of the
Egyptian, not the Persepolitan, form; that the queen is
that her upper hand (Capk-al-Chadib) holds forth a small figure; and
that a cross is attached to the Corona, converting it to the mystic symbol
Digitized byGoogle
365
which has been the subject of so much controversy, and connecting it
mysteriously with that diagrammatic sign of the planet Venus, which
accompanies the Cushiopia of green jasper.
Reverting from the scarabreus to the great celestial book of nature,
and to the sculptured cylinder, let us next observe whether the stars
which we have seen in the east, will lead us, like the magi ofSt. Matthew,
toward the place where the stellated queen was more especially vene-
rated; for, that the annual return of her stars at certain seasons, to sta-
tions of honour and of supposed efficacy, was-like those of Taurus at
Babylon, and those of Bootes (Osiris) in Egypt-hailed as the harbinger
of terrestrial blessings, by some or other of the oriental nations, I hope
we may be allowed to assume. That the astronomical priests probably
made use of the very signet befort> us-consecrating by its means, their
victims, at the seasons of sacred observance, with the hallowed image of
"their first mother," the constellated queen of ..tEthiopia-
· will perhaps
not be controverted, after what has been adduced, and what 1 shall next
proceed to offer.
Having endeavoured to interpret the meaning of the several parts of the
device of this engraving, we may now, with better hope of success, at-
tempt the collective meaning of the whole; for which purpose it will be
necessary to return to the globe; though not, I think, to the far off date
mentioned by Tycho Brahe, when the stars of Cassiopeia rose with the
first degrees of Aries.
But we must approach toward this rt>mote era, if it be true, that
" under the stars of their canonised queen, the1Ethiopians ever afterward
proceeded to solemnize the inauguration of the successors of Cepheus,
in memorial of their first mother Cushiopeia," and if it be regarded as a
credible presumption, that the present signet bore any reference to that
ancient solemnity ; for the words " ever after" seem to imply that no very
long time elapsed between the demise of Cepheus (or Chepbeus) and Cu-
shiopia, and the commencement of tbe astronomical custom.
I shall venture to remove the colore to the next significant and con-
spicuous celestial mark, which I find to be Regulus;-a brilliant point
2x2
Digitized by Google
366
in the heavens, and which, lying on the Ecliptic, must once have been the
very point touched by the northern tropic at the solstitial season.
At that time the pole of the Equator was removed from the alpk.a
DracO'IIU, about one-third of the space between it and KocluiiJ, toward
the latter; the former must therefore have been regarded as the star of
the arctic pole, and consequently the large eight-pointed asterisk which
is above the head of the Cusbiopia of our gem, is the Alpha Draconis.
My astronomical readers need not be informed, that in the low latitude
of Saba, their arctic circle is of necessity so much narrowed, that the
whole of the of the constellated queen, rise and set, which in our
own latitude they do not.
The globe being rectified as above, let us proceed with our problem.
It baa in substance been already stated, that as the stars of Cushiopia
set, in these low latitudes and at that distant period of time, those of the
Atarotk (or Corona) ascended from the cusp of the horizon ;-the stars
which originally studded the bust of the queen (but which are now in the
lower part of her figure) being simultaneous in their setting, with the
Ple'iades and also with the rising of the starry crown-coincidences which
will probably be regarded as too striking to have happened without deep
thought and successful contrivance on the part of those grateful astrono-
mers who first constellated the heavens, and whose example in modem
times, the science and happy fortune of Herschel alone has enabled him
to emulate.
At that annual season when the Sun was on the same meridian with
one or other of these eternal groups-presumptively that of the rising
Corona,-we might reasonably have supposed, was celebrated that inau-
guration festival of the successors of Cepheus, to which Tycho Brahe's
authorities have so pertinently alluded: and we can easily conceive, that
at whatever other season of the year the demise of an lEthiopian monarch
might take place, the coronation-though not the accession, of his suc-
cessor, would be deferred (like that of our own king) till the auspicious
stars arose to which religion looked up with her warmest hope, for sub-
lunary prosperity.
Digitized byGoogle
367
But was this festival celebrated when the stars of the Northern Crown
rose heliacally? This might be thought to be most likely, because, pa-
rallel to the mathematical solution which here presents itself, of the hiero-
glyphical enigma, there runs that beautiful poetic analogy which has al-
ready been noticed; but the supposition leaves us short of certainty, and
there are other circumstances which must be taken into the account.
Let us reflect. This must have happened in the autumn, when the Sun
was in Scorpius, and when nature was pouring forth her annual abun-
dance into the lap of .!Ethiopia; and consequently must have been three
months after their great solstitial festival. Still, this question is admis-
sible: nor can we be quite certain that Midsummer was not the season
of celebration.
Whether it was or not, it would appear from the monument which is
here the subject of comment, that the same stars which in the country
where it originated, were the acknowledged and appointed phenomena, or
signs, of the above festival, were the astral signs of the solstitial festival
also, when at mid-day the great god of the Sabrean idolatry, shone forth
exultiogly,-as expressed by our graven image,-in the intensity of his
might; and perhaps when the Grecian Jupiter himself was fabled by the
first of poets to feast annually at the .lEthiopian table of the Sun.
The globe, rectified as I have said, and with the pole elevated to the
latitude of Saba, will easily shew, that as the stars of the Corona Borealis
rise in that latitude, those of Cushiopia set: her stars psi and omega,
the former of which was originally that of her forth-held hand, departing
as the earliest of the Corona rises; another of the same (third) magnitude,
nearly with the rising of AZ..pkecca (the gem, or chief star of the Corona),
and the remainder following within 20 minutes, during which the circle
of the Corona is completely displayed.
"The seven stars" of the prophet Amos and ofour cylinder-those Tau-
rine stars, which, throughout these researches, have proved to be of such
ancient and signal importance ; and which derived that importance, in
part, from their passing vertically over the Sabrean climates :-the stars
also which I have conjectured to have once belonged to those problema-
tical figures which we have observed to be not unfrequently repeated on
Digitized byGoogle
368
the Sabman gems, and which are eogaged in the modern Erydanus, are
now setting, together with those originally in the bead of Cushiopia-
the ga11tf114 of Erydanus (of the second magnitude) departing precisely
with the Ple·iades, just after the Corona is complete, and as the last star
of Cusbiopia, (originally that of her crowned bead,) dies in the occidM&I.
I have before noticed (I believe) that and 10utena ducefll, were,
in that most ancient, aboriginal language of the star-worshippers, ex-
pressed by the same word.
The above transits of course took place, cosmically speaking, at every
revolution of the terrestrial globe, in the given lEthiopian latitnde-earlier
or later in the night; and were visible for the full half of every year, to
the infinite delight, and to the constant feeding of the faith, of these pri-
mitive astronomers: which brings us to our great leading question of,
Wlaere wa1 tlu Sun, with reference to these signs, at those prime
of sacred and anuual observance, when the poles of the equator and the
ecliptic were coincident, or formed a right line with the meridian?
Nor is the answer to this question a whit less interesting or remark-
able. The stars would, and did, thus rise and set, precisely when the
solstitial Son was with Regulus, the splendid mark at which we agreed
to place him at the outset of this problem ; and Regulus, and the solar
orb were, in this latitude, exactly in the zenith on midsummer-day. This
must have been theaolltitialmark ; and the ball which surmounts the cen-
tral rod ofour Aehre, may haTe been intended to denote the placeofthe Sun
and Regulus at the time specified. The conjunctive orbs must have ar-
rived at this of Sabman honour and glory, precisely as the circlet of
Ataroth was complete, and before tbe Ple.iades bad quitted the western
horizon. And notwithstanding that the star• cov.ld not (of course) be
visible in this diurnal state of the bea.veiii!J, tbt-ir places might be known
to thOBe Cbephenes who directed the engraTing of the Boughton cylinder,
with JDOre exactness than some of us rooderas may be aware of.
In the midst of the longest night also, a"t the seaSOR when the Sun was
at the then Brumal solstice, in Aquarius, that which I have above de-
suibed, woold be the visible state of the nocturnal heavens :-that is to
ay, Regulas would oeeupy the zenith ; the Ple'iades would be departing
Digitized byGoogle
369
wit.h the later stars of Cusbiopia; aud those of the Ataroth would ha.ve
risen in full display: But people who adored the Sun would scarcely
think of sacrificing to him in his absence; yet the nocturnal, may pos--
sibly be, in this instance and upon a sacred occasion, combined in the
engraving, with the diurnal, display of the celestial phenomena.
An.d now concerning those slender collateral lines emanating from the
solar orh of our gem, of which I stated in an earlier page of this essay,
that I found it eligible to defer to treat: I did so because I would avoid
complexity where it was practicable, and not overburthen the reader's
mind in the outset of our journey : but in candour I must acknowledge
that I had also other reasons. I found fB!jStif, as well as the Suo, at a
stand--still; but in no other respect resembling that luminary, for I could
then throw no further light upon the subject. I wanted more astronomy
than I possessed-something of solar ardour too would have been desir-
able, in order to enable me to dissipate the scepticism with which my
mind was clouded, and to determine between the ideas which were ex-
isting there on tbe subject; aod perhaps I might not have been much
better off at present, notwithstanding my hopes to tl.e contrary, but for
the posterior receipt of a present of fac-similes of antique gems from the
Baron Denon. Upon one of them (a cylinder) is a variation of the
winged and radiant orb, which goes to confirm the opinion I bad before
conceived, that the Sun at the summer solstice, is meant to be expressed
on our monument, with the addition that the tropics were known to the
Sabman astronomers of the primitive ages.
Bringing my witnesses together, I now appear to perceive from their
concurrence, that the orb of luminous effluence, is at his utmost northern
advance in the ecliptic, where it is met by the northern tropic, the south
pole being upward: and that those questionable emanating lines, are the
chords ofthose arcs of the said tropic which are intercepted between the
solstitial point and the eastern and western horizons of those latitudes or
places respectively, to which the monuments severally belong; and of
course expressed with reference to the upright rod of the Ashre, and the
meridian of the place, at the noon of midsummer-day.
Of Deooo's solar image, I have given a sketch upon the same plate
•
Digitized byGoogle
370
with my illustrations of Cushiopia, that every reader may draw his own
inferenct>S on comparison. The angle subtended here, is so nearly the
same as that of the riband-streamers from the solar or regal zones at
Nakshi-Rustum and Persepolis, as to suggest, that they belonged to
nearly the same latitude, and that the general meaning of this Sabman
hieroglyph was in all latitudes the same; namely, the solstitial Sun, or
solar orb, "riding at his highest noon," and beaming in the intensity of
his might. The difference between the Baron's and your's (Sir William)
appears to be, that his belongs to a higher latitude, and your's to a lower.
The wider angle subtended by the emanating lines on your's, necessarily
indicates-if my premises be correct-an horizon nearer to the equinoc-
tial line, which is conformable to our earlier computations. But his
seems to contain an indication of the curve of the tropic itself, in addition
to its chord-though certainly expressed by too elliptical an arch: The
whole of this solar sculpture is indeed too inartificially performed to be-
come subservient to any other purpose than that of general information;
which is perhaps fortunate for your present correspondent, as spherical
triangles are quite above his reach.
Again then we are conducted by a fresh route, and with a fresh acces-
sion ofevidence, to the season of one of the and, whether or not
the preponderance of sculptured evidence should be found to be in favour
of that of summer; whether the alpha LeO'His, or the opposite point of
the ecliptic in Aquarius, be understood to be expressed as having been
on the meridian-we are carried back to the same remote .era for the date
of the gem, and the origin of those ceremonials of solstitial sacrifice, and
of the inauguration or coronation festivals-which were celebrated on
the accession of every £thiopian monarch, in honour of the canonized
Cnshiopia.
The computation of this date is simply as follows. We have seen that
Regulus was then the point where the solstitial colore cut the ecliptic:
this point is about 57° from its p1·esent place ; which number multiplied
into the generally received rate of precession, 72, gives a result of 4, 104
years, or 2,282 B. C.
This date, like those of most of the Sabman monuments that I have in-
Digitized by Coogle
371
vestigated, is rather too early for some of the systems of sacred chrono-
logy. But Science is not to be shackled where men have differed: on the
contrary, these are precisely the places where she may be best pleased
and most privileged, to exercise her liberty and her powers; and this date
accords very well with the 3,128 years which the Septuagint have reckon-
ed between the Deluge and the birth of Christ, as well as with the long
races or dynasties of Homeritish or Cusbite kings which Volney essayed
to trace among broken fragments and disjointed documents.
Yet as some doubt has been expressed, as to whether the present eo-
graving (found in Phrenicia) be a work of.tEthiopian or of Sidooian art,
I may be expected to return to the state of the celestial phenomena in
this more northerly latitude; for, as old Thomas Hearne, who made him-
self so famous for learning what father Time bad forgotten, bas pro-
nounced geography and chronology to be " the eyes of history," we can
scarcely take too much care that the Muse does not squint. She should
look straight forward ; and whether forward or backward-she should
certainly look straight.
Not that there is any crookedness that I know of, ip the computation
which is submitted above; neither does the Syrian solution lead us with
more certainty toward a less distant era; for although the era to which
it does lead, be somewhat less distant, yet, by attaching ourselves to it,
we should in a great degree lose the support derived from the ancient
legend of Cmtbiopia. Joppa is indeed mentioned in the Greek versions
of her story; bot that Joppa is allowed to have been on the southern
shores of the Arabian peninsula. However, that the reader may judge
for himself, and apart from all antiquarian predilections which may pos-
sibly be thought to possess the mind ofthe author, it may not be amiss to
add, that in the Pbrenician latitudes, when the stars of Cushiopia began
to set, those of the Corona bad just arisen; KocllalJ being at the time the
polar star, and the lambda Leonia on the meridian.
Taking the lambda Lecmis as the point of the zodiac intersected at the
time by the solstitial colore, we arrive at a cardinal mark which is within
a small fraction of 46° from the present place of the summer solstice, and
which carries us .back to a period of the sacred history when the Canaao-
Digitized byGoogle
3'12
ites were yet strong in their native land, and Israel was warring with a
Cuskile king of Mesopotamia-namely, a little more than fourteen cen-
turies before the commencement of the Christian era.
The great Hebrew general, Joshua, who succeeded their still greater.
legislator, was now recently dead : the children of Israel did evil in the
sight of the Lord, and served Baalim and the Asherim ; and among the
nations which the Lord Jehovah had left to prove them, were five lords
of the Philistines; all tke Canaanites; the Sidonians; and the -Hivites
that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal-hermon unto the entering
in of Hamath. They were to prove Israel, to know whether they would
hearken to the commandments ofJehovah, which be commanded by the
mouth of Moses.
The children ofIsrael dwelt at the .time among the Canaanites,
and Amorites, &c.: and they took .their daughters to be their own wives;
and gave their daughters to the sons of- these Sabmans, and served their·
gods. Therefore the anger of the Lord was bot against Israel, and· he
sold them into the hand of Chushan-rishathaim, king of Mesopotamia.-
(Judges, ch. iii.)
So that we, in this view of the subject, again:arrive at an era,: germain·
to the occasion of our journey, attended with great probabilities, and at· -
a place where such signets as the present, must have been in frequent use.
Clio, moreover, in these remote retrospections, looks as she ought, with, .
sister Urania at her-elbow.
The lambda Leonis is in this latter reckoning,-applicable to the.land.
ofCanaan,-found to occupy the place ofRegulus in the former computa-:
tion. The rest of the leading asterisms are stiJl those which have already.
been described to be displayed on the cylinder, posited with similar rela-:
tions to Cushiopia and the Atarotk; and consequently, being supposed
to possess a similar celestial influence on the occasions of using the signet.
The small arc, and crescent moon, of the engraving, alone remain to be
noticed.
In explaining the.small arc, which on the present monument surmounts
the solar orb, .we have before observed thatthe Sun at the Tropic, (J:JO.
in the Hebrew) meant, the Sun at his curved turn: ,but he makes these
Digitized byGoogle
373
curved turns so slowly, compared with his progress through the rest of
the year, that the word by which the Greeks denoted these seasons, when
they spoke with technic reference to the Sun, was Sol-stice, which is lite-
rally the stationary Sun, (or the Sun at a stand). In fact, his diurnal
course is for a while so nearly the same at these seasons, that the ancient
Sabreans might find it difficult, in the existing state of the constitution of
their caleodar,-that is to say, of those means which served them instead
of a calendar-to know which was the precise day for the celebration of
this sacred festival, and appear therefore to have regulated it by the Moon.
The Moon was to thE" Hebrews emphatically "the sign of feasts," because
it had long been so to their star-worshipping ancestry: and but for the
discovery of such monuments as the present, and from comparing them
with the Bible, we cannot now know how much or bow little of the laws
ofMoses were derived from previously existing customs of their Assyrian
forefathers.
It is for this reason, as I imaginE", that we find a crescent Moon sculp-
tured near the winged orb-and as if she bad just passed her conjunction
-on the present cylinder. It seems to say-the day on which the new
Moon first appears, after the heliacal rising of the star Regulus, or of the
lambda Lecmis, is the true day for celebrating the solstitial festival : a rule,
which (as developed in a former essay) descended from the Cbaldeans
and the Pbrenicians to the Greeks.
Having thus proceeded through the details of the engraved contents of
your very interesting cylinder, to the best of my judgment and ability, I
shall here beg leave to close the present Essay, and with it, the present
volume of SABJEAN REIIEARCBES. I have the honour to remain, (dear Sir
William), your much obliged and obedient servant.
2Y2
Digitized byGoogle
Digitized by Google
INDEX.
A A.
aua&w, the deiCI8Clallll ol, wbJ iDterdletecl &om
aalq pa•eo imapl, 68.
- - the Alhre eet ap by, at Beenbeba, 3tt.
.ChV...,., qGOted by Poeodte, eoaumilll the uti•
of the Sa 1M•
.Citilla, aymboUcal aod atral cbaraea ia the lhield of, 41.
.fdillla T.,._, quoted by Coatanf, coacemiag the origia
of the eoaatell&tio-. ..u, tbt.
.feW, or Hadad, aigai&catioa of, • applied by Sableilll
to the IOiar orb, 110.
a city ofSyria, ill appellatioa deftaed, 336.
JUM.., Mr., obaenaticiD or, coocemiag the •eloclty of
the motioa ofUgbt, 105•
...,., Syriaa ritea of, u iDfereoce dedoeed from the,
U&
- ud Veaaa, oriel• of the fable of, referred to atro-
IIODiical pheaomftlll, 110.
(See &«hi, lWUa, H..,..ct.a, NNll, Olirir, S..
6aiu, T'-,
Ai'Nofthe Cypriao nae, or eg.Jike aymbol, iDferred &om
'fUioaa reaaou, 8S.
....,., quoted, to allow the aee of the aipet ill early
Greece,l7. ·
l&liiiU, or Jano, copied by Spaoheim from the early
Greek coiDI, 1 t.
or Arabia Felis, the probable aoarce wbeace
Mtrooomy origiaated, 50.
the utroaomieal precedeacy of, aapported by
Laciao aod other eoDCDrreat teatlmoaiea, 89.
- - - Sabeaa riteaderiYed &om, by Egrpt, Pbuicia,
Greece, &c. 161.
- - - ia Africa, the receat traYela of WadclillgtoD
Uld Haobary ill, ft4.
- - - the utroaomical aymbola of, beapeak a Jmow.
ledp ofthe preceMioa ofthe eqaiaosea, ua.
- Arabiao, or oriental, nriou clueical writen
who allade to, M9. ,
- - - ia Aaia, oace Yemen, aow Arabia Pelill, 351.
- - - etymoa of,aod itapriority ia
atteated, Mt.
- - - aipi&caotly called tbe Laod ofSigu, ibill.
- - - &rat colony of traden that aettled iD Caaaau1
or Pbaeaicia, &om, sss.
..,... Cubltea, ftnt aettlemeot of, ia the Arabiaape-
aiaaala, IIDCI aallaeqaent mlaratioa of, into EuPt, ut.
the Eaatera or Arabian, diatiapilbecl from
thole ofAfrica by Banier, 160.
- - - - feati•ala of,in hoaor of eu.iopeia or Caabio-
pia, 865.
.finlff, DCCODDt of, from Saacboaiathoa, Uld from the
Uaiftnll Biatory; ud eonaeqaeat ideotity of, with
Na.la,1t5.
import ofthe name, and aatroaom1ca1 iDfenDce
tberefiom, rr.
- theoriee of the aatbor eoa8rmed by a eertaiD
apeet of, 181.
. of moment
naa l'eMII'eb and IDitol)' IOI•ed by tile riiillf
of, with the 'feraaliDD1 1M.
4fiUlllrilt iDdieated OD cyliDcler u the Miler of the BOlt
ofSabaoth, t89.
4fW.., the ufroaomlcal poeta of Greeoe uclltome pabo
Uabed by, 90.
.«,_.,.# profellor of Hebrew, c:oDIIDelltal'y by, on tbe
nw,s1.
- - the IDI'COIIba«aa diatiagaiahed • beariDc
the aodiacal .Ram; ana iDfenace tllerefroal. ttt.
.Cl-Gdlai, thelmeeler, eomapoadblg to thel:lercalel of
the modena IPhere, 133.
A,._k, the :ftropbetie, tbe aaperiority of, Mt.
.CipAe-Diwoail, the 4800 yean qo, 17"1.
- - - - the ehielatar near the pole at the era ol
tbe Boqhtoa eyliader, 366.
A..thl, c3ty aad temple of, Ia Cypru, Uld the apparellt
eoaaedoa ofwitb Sabeaa myateriea, 8t.
- - - etymon of, (..U1) and coaauioD of, with tbe
maadue en, as.
.c-.(the .Ram,)aacceeda Taarlll u the ftnt or.._.
. aip,M•
..._ (See./.,Utf'o.d-).
.c-.allllllon of the prophet to the ee•ea atan, M1•
4f..W., enpll'fed eyliDden fallacioulyao eateeaed by
certain Europeu writers, 57•
.«--,cited to abew that on the aadeat apbere bat oDe
Bear wa coaatellated, 108.
A• i rb, the dial Of, Uld obliqaity of the apba.
taagbt by, !!t.
..,_.,.,, the liDe of, wbeDee the ritea of the s.-...
, - deri•ed, 59.
4f......,..,_ and oth•r m-r. iDcladed ia MOMI'a
problbitioa apiaat i-..wonllip, 69.
tile, ba•iag embraced Cbrlttluity..! ratl8ed
tbeir aolema engapmeatl with the lip oftbe CIGII1 t5o
AllliocA,juper-opal cyliader &om, DMJoto• to daOie ol
Chaldea, 164•
... aociety of, fJnt -y ... to ... t.
---the aeeretary to the Newaatle aoc:iety oftbt,
iDtqtioa uplaiDed by, 5.
4fllllbU, theDog,fallacyofcertain opiaioaal"'lpeCtiDr,Iff.
..,,.._ ofOiiril, I8UOII and Sabeaa ritea 01the, 111.
ApW, tbe Taariae deity of the Egrptiaaa, • CGDDeCted
with their Saroa, 19'1•
A,_,.,the frait.tree ofthe, l8ppOied byaome to ...
blematiae tile IIOdiac, tal.
A,.UO, the Orpbie byma to, e'fiaeea the peealiar aee of
licn.ell in Greece at a tery •rly 18,_tr•
.dpllltiU, u iaataaee meatioued by, &om whieb the aa..
tare of the Eleuiaiu and ether uciellt 11111teri• IIIDJ
be iDferred, IIOU 188•
IDpp;;l to ..... beaa the &JiaJoaa npobearw
ofJupiter, ..u, 137•
- • repreaeatecl on gem, compued witla thepre-
aeat &gore of, 150•
.trw, the coaatellatio• or, I8JIIIOIId to ..... to
the del...., 185.
.d..W., or ld....-, the ofJob, IS.
--there IJ'O'fiDcelof, tbe tnt pea& DIU ol tile
C..aaitea, tt6.
Digitized byGoogle
376 INDEX•
..frllbia, ud alpifteatioa of tbe word, 358.
- Felia, deeerlptlon of, byGibboa, 355•
..f...W.U, remoteat caatoma of the, aec_,- to be coD-
aalted iD order to obtain a lulowledJe ofSabeu mya.
teriea, 18.
- - - the, ud Penia-, wore cyliDden to propitiate
Fate, 5'1.
Aralle, modem, cyliadel'l fo11Dd by the, ud their npenti·
tiou coacemlag tbe rirtuea ortheaelfllYeD remaiu, to
ANiu, the Syatqma of, by Grotiua, relati•e to the fil'lt
uteriama, 94.
- - the authority or, coacemiDg the nortbem conateJ.
laliou, 10'7, 108.
- - e'fideDCe from, tbat Ia a ute-
riam, Ut.
- - poaitloa of the EagolllliD, or luleeler, deecribed
by, tM.
- - the pheDOmeaa of, a nnUleatloD ofthe 1pbere or
Eadosoa, 148.
Attiea, the commeacemeat of the Gredaa
:pear, from, till.
---orthe Society or Antlqoariel, tnt -y pnb-
liabed ia the, 19.
ioYeated by the .£tbiopiaal, aecordiDg to Lociao,
149.
Ard""""lu, a uame gina to BoOtee, u
106,107•
..frdwu, 1p0keo of by Aratua • distiDet frem BoOtea,
108, 1'76.
- - - bow filr it iDterfena with the aothor'a propoaed
IOlotioD of the fable ofTyphoo cattiDg to piecea Oairia,
:1'76.
---remarkable coioeldenee ofthe
eent of, with Spica beliaeally, u disconred by
m- ofthe Notatioo Globe, 181•
..frile, the •emal eqoiuos, ecreaaing from Taama, begioa
ita coane throop, u.
-- eateemed by utrologel'l the tutelary cooateUati9n
ofEaglaDd, lllllt, 170o
-- a aew modifteatioa of Sablean hiero!llyphica aDd
followed the tranait of the equiaos from
Taama iato, tt8.
-- problem reaalting from the co-ueent of, with Cuhi-
opia, Milo
ideatlfiea Baecboa with Sabuioa, the Sabean
Deity ofHoabandry, aow cooatellated • Bootea, 161.
Aric ofo.iris,aod Aqoariua, matoal upeeta of, at a certain
aeaaoa(aee Btar), 196o
..f......n.l BeariDp, reaaoas for coneeiriag the Sabean orl·
gin of, 41.
Ataplt, the word, • fouod attached to certain PAlmi,
meaoiog of, S18.
A...,taia, tbe utrooomical priuta oftbe Hebrewa, ihid.
- - - eome aecoaat of tbe peculiar olll.c:e of the,
St9.
one of the Babylooiao prleata, aappoaed to be
·· acalptared on a gem, !88.
mentioned in the Book of Daniel, ihid.
- - - their preaamed predilection fur et>rtaio IIOdiacal
aigot, SIO•
..fMfriM, the Hoat of HeaYen, or atara, ftgarded a the
cauee of
A-, myatic, of the Pbrygiau, !96.
Aaliiaa, the eonstellatioa wbic:h tbe men of Hamath
adopted • their bene•olent aterism, 1'10,
ioatromeat used by the Hebrews and Caoaanitea
in toretellin& the approaching timea aod aeuooa, t33.
-- alluaion ofthe prophet Elekiel to a profilne custom
relatiYe to, ibiL
- tbe word,ftllaely traulatedin the English Bible,t86.
A*'iD•eatiptloD ofthe true meuinaof, from ae•eralaa-
thoritiea, t9t.
-- the Coree ofthe ae'feral memben of the word,llbewn
by itlaaalyaia, !95.
-- • rendered, or reqairlog to be rendered, iD •arioaa
tnta, t99-S10.
-- the imtmmeat, u deaerlbed by Moaea, 301.
- aabataaees of wbit-h ita pam were couatraetecl, ibid.
-- a replarntensil ofthe Hebftw temple, soa.
-- certaiD drapery embelliabmeata worked for tbe, b:p
ihid.
-- deatrat-tion of the, by kiD& Joaiab, ioferenee from
dae mode of, UrMt;
-- erected or at Beenbeba by Abraham,
Stt.
-- the pecaliar ue to which it mi&ht be aabMMeat,
SS6.
Jfllra aad IDD-imagea oaed coflioiDtly ; aDd botb clelit- .
uated u being muofactared by meaoa of hniiiUl art,
sew•
..ftlt-ltr'OIIa, the, of Scriptore, the maoy milrepreeeatadom
or, 10.
- - - a deificAtion of the moon, '71.
---- a part of the aubjeet of Capt. Loekett'a larJeat
cyliDder, aappoaed to be the moon tbua repreaented, M.
.Caiii,..,._K.,..a., the city of aocient Canaao eo c:alled,
derlntion of, 'Tt.
- - - - - - thoapt to refer to the early period
wbea the yean eommenu.d with the auo ia Taunaa, '7'1.
- - - - - - the hieroglyphic for upftuiDI tlie lint
new or ereaeent moon or the year while Taama wu the
nmal alp, u.
.AMI-, myatie treea,ao denomiDated iD the SeaodiDa'fiao
Edda, !9'1•
..ftp«<t, plclttlcry, eoafigured upou aigneta, -66.
- - - - - the influential eft"ecta of, a faith lo, nry
geaerall:p preniled among the aaeieat natiou, Mt.
..f-o, from tbe work of, that the Arabiao
or Cnfie aphere of the Boraian Muaeam i.a aot of nry -
remote antiqnity, 98.
..f.,n., Egypt, aod Greece, the acalptured monuments of, 0
contain the homed laaette on the forehead of tbe Ball,
.,...
..fa,rial, enry one of the, ,_eued hia 01111B·penollll
aipet, s.
.C.urilat, tbe Sabaao, mach obaenred by Greek fable,
91. 0
- - - the edra·10dianala well a the zodiacal, reprd-
ed of old 11 omens aod aipala, 106.
(See COIIIltiWioll, Zocliacal tipt.)
Alltr04/t,, aee Jfaliterot/t,. ·
AllrollJritcl con6gnratio111 repreaented oo the Greeiaa
aipet pftfiKed to ENay III. aod their aappoaed import,
-All .
- - - refereDCea to Qtra..zodiaeal eigna by Job,
Iaaiala, Amoa, Homer, Heaiod, &e. &c. 104.
Amot.ry and geaetblioluu identified ia tbe early agea 0
with aatronomy, 41o
- - - practlaed by Heliod aod otherGfteiao Poeta, 49.
---- the leading doctrine. of, deacended from .the
SabiNna, 54.
Adroklfm of Chaldea, adtaotagea takea of the credalooa
'
- - - diatiagaiabed from profaoe. by Mi-
cbaelia, 81S.
aod Altrologen, no diatioetion between, iD
the earl:p agea, 41. 0 •
- - - - the early Greek, their koowledj!e wu
deri•ed, aud bow accommodated to tbe pftjudieea of
their coaotr:p, 168.
Digitized byGoogle
INDEX. 377
A,.,._.,the, of Greeee, .ery inferior ia lmowledge to
those ofEg,pt, t!O.
ofeertain pueagea in Job rela-
tiYe to the mode of obtaining impressions &om aigneta,
1S-l5.
------ namet giYen to certain toWDI and moun•
taioa in AsAyria and Canaa11, Mt. •
Adr'OIIomy, proficiency in the science of, eYioced by the
author of Book ofJob, 16.
----- priority of Arabia, in the knowledge of, the
ground-work for expounding the Cbaldeao
preaentPd on aignete,. 17'.
---- lirat took riae in}Ethiopia,uaftirmed by Lucian,
89.
- - - a knowledge of, necessary to tbe understanding
the old claaaic writers, 91.
---- phenomena in, the meana of regulating the Sa-
bal8n festivala, Hit.
- - - hieroglyphical recorda of the aip afforded by,
became the calendars ofthe most ancient nations, 165.
- - - the sublime truths of, per'lerted by the fictiona
of foola, i05. .
---the original aeat of, inferred to ba'le been ia
Arabi-JEthiopia, from circnmatanc:es addueed by recent
Eugliah tranllera, tt•.
---- tbe claaaic:al, ofGreece and Rome, e'linced by a
knowledge of the preceuion of the eqninollea, HS.
- - - the rnolvtng periods of, observed with awful
10lemnity by those nation• with whom it wu religion,
1$9,
- - - nidenee of Plato u to the people who 6rst
practised, tWit, M9.
(See Adtr'UJU, AllroZo,y, CouteUIIliDIII, M_, P14-
.n., Probmu, &rn, s.,., Zudiocal&ipl.)
Alair, the chiefatar of the Eagle, allusion to, in illuetra·
tion of a paaaage in Ferdoai, 10.
Atllf'OIIa, the crown held by Cauiopeia, anppoaed to ban
been 10 called by the ancient Saba!ana, MS.
the kinga of Tyre, by this title dittioguilhed
tbemaelna, ttt.
AT&, forcible aignifitation ofthe word, tt.
-- pecnliar import ofeach literal characteria the word,
JtDie, .,.
-- a more foil interpretation of the word &om Bate
and Alexander, 31•
etymon and import of, from Dr. Dodd, u it re-
latet to a Saba!an 'em, o68.
.diU., concave ceihnga emblazoned with the beanoly
figurea at, 309.
AtloiAet, Atlw44, TlfoiA, the Egyptian deity ofaigua, Sl.
.AtliU1 auppoaed to have been one of the original constel-
lationt, anrl repre5ented on the Boughton gem, 358. '
.dll,llldu, the signet of, atiU elltlnt, and ita horoacopical
(eatorea, ""-
AIIIIulr, reasona of the, for engacillf:. in 10 arduoue an ia-
naligation u the preAent, Yil.
- aeptimenla indulged and restriet.ioua imposed by
the, during the task, ix.
- apology of tlte, for hlt'ing dilated on aome parti-
nlar anbjecta, x.
- tut in Job relatin to the mode of usin1 aigoeta,
ellplained by the, u.
--- the, not desirooa to ban bit inferencea butily cre-
dited, 91.
- - the addreu of the, to .the o•er-acrnpnlont, cou-
cel'lliog bit t"ree t11e of the Scriptures ia proaeeutiog
tbeae antiquarian reaearc:hea, tM. ·
--·the, deooun«'ea the aatronomicallegeadaofGreece
u contemptible when compared with the •eoerable
aotiqnes of Chaldea, MS.
A:cit, remaJDe ofa metaUic, foUDd within a cylinder, a.;
sculptured reliqnet foUDd at, thought to ba'le serv-
ed u calendars, 11'1•
.Azilnth, of the Araltian apbere, or circles through th,.
Zenith aad Nadir, tot.
- - - horoacopic aigoificaoee gi'leo to certain atara
through which the leading, pua, 1().1.
B.
Balli, Templeof, the entrance sealed up with the signet of
tbe king of Babylon, tt.
- - - - - effect intended to be conveyed by affixing
the royal algnet to the, t6.
-- Bttl, or Bel, a personificationofthe 'no, represented
on cylinder, 84.
Balll-GM1110a1 why city of, wu 10 named, and important
chronological era connected with the adoption of the
appellation, ibid. .
opinion of Mr. Harmer u to the aliueion to,
in Song of Solomon, 11ote, 85. ·
----- converted by the Greekt to Jupiter Am·
moo, !!9.
Bakil-1114, supposed to be the same u Ball-ammon, ss.
Bail-11«, the city of, anppoaed to be the Ball-ammon, and
Baal-ath, mentionrd in t'lrious parte of Scripture, 'Mit.
See reference nest preeedia,, SS.
Babyw11, gems dng from the rutnt of, brought to England
by Captain Lot'kett, t.
---
. Arabi now exploring the earlieat foupdatioue of.
and result anticipated, t .
--- gema from, depoaited in the varlooa muaeuma of
Europe, ibid.
--- the commoa centre of Auyrian and PltCEnician
art, 88.
("'ee A,-ia and Cllaldttt.) ·
Ila#b•, the identity of, with Adonia, Bootes, l•wara, Ja.
ou, Noah, Oairit, Thammux, Xilr.nthrns, tu, 169.
--- 1ynonymooa with Osiris, according to Herodotus,
1!7.
- - the probable birtb-plaee of, inferred from Aristo-
pbanes and Cicero, 159.
- - a corruption 1_1robably of Saba-cbn•r ltllle, ibid.
--- identified wttb Sabaxiue, or SaDa-ZeDt, llolt,
161.
--- once a constellation of the sphere, inferred from
Virgil, toO.
- - the constellation of, in the £optian plaoispheret
of Kircher, denoted by a 'line, tot.
- - and Jnpiter1 aole objecb of religiont worship at
Meroe in lEthiopta, t85. ·
- - Legend of Hypnns relati•e to, explained,
(See Adollit, Boiilu, r_.,, .1-, Noall, Olirit,
Tit.-, Xi.ntAnlt.)
Bailly, Mr., opinion of, coneerniog the Pole-atar of the
most ancient apheret, 104. · ·
.Balrilr, testimony of, conceruiug ana-worship.
the lEtbiopiant, 159.
Baka, Mr., respecting the antiquity of the 'l'emple of
Dendera.
Ba.b, the late Sir Joaeph, Eaeay L, addressed to, t. ·
Bate, Jtlliu, the myatic aeoae of the Hebrew word Alii,
u rendered by, tS.
----on the Hebrew word Ttlr, u uaed iu Job,
ulli. M ; t9.
- - - - on the meaning of .dtllaplita and Atlw!pla,
so..
- - - - on Jebonh appeariag between tbe chtnl-
bim, lillie, ,15. .
S.., the coostellatioa of the, with otlau ori1inal uterisma
OD a gem, 91,
Digitized byGoogle
378 INDEX.
.B.r, bow poeited oa pm, with n.pect to Boatel or
An:toplayla, 107'.
- the, called Una Miaor, a (OillteiJatioa of later date
tbaa Una 108.
-the 1-r, tal)ll(lled to ban beeo formerly a Boar
oa the Pbcuiciaai Plalliapheree, lllk, 111.
why ..ted by the prieata before IICriaee, 6t.
BMw. see Sc8raNu.
:&uc.,,Mr.. a p1111p ofGeaelllu reoclered by, sa.
- - - the forcible aenae ol the wont..-.., upqa
lkloe, Re•. Mr., the word n&AJ'IAA, ID llerodotu, mil·
trulllated by, s.
- - a Berodotu not eomprebeocltd by, 191.
- - llijai8ciation of the pbnle 'Godl ofGreeft,' &om
the Berodotal of. ..._
- lal'ormatioll &o; the BerodoWI ol, relatite to Ara-
blau utiqaitiee, w.
&lu, BHI, Btl, &114 ctialectl oldie 11111e word, liplfy·
IDe lArd., 139.
- perbapl altered ftoom Beekth, Lord of the Sip,
&lrGid, the eaatom ofArabian aad Nablan women wear-
illf pa»ln their hair, witue.ed by, 10.
--- the dileoftriea of, in EtJpt, eYiDee the cleYotion
plid to a.m., 16'1.
- IICribel the ereetlon of the Deadera Temple to
the 8nt Ptol-y, 119.
- the elllaibition or, led the uthor to oblene that
- ecllple mfclat be appropriately -blematiled by •
- the eollec:doa ol, recretespNIIed by the aatbor
that It lboalcl not llaft fooJad a permanent plaee Ia thil
eocmtry,_, ""-
.a....a•ci, riliDc of the atar, u eoaaected with a duoao-
=.-oblem, 181.
llipllcatlonolthe to Ita Syriae
elemeata, sscs•
............,, the 8nt word of the Hebrew Bible, llliltrato.
laled and troe aenae of, 196.
......,the daimera ofthe Babyloaieo templeacJ.eribed
by, ••
- - teatlmoay of, u to the powerful 8alleua .uiola
wblcb pncedeCI Oreeee, 1M.
- - die aceoont of the peatdelapof!folia or XJu.
thru preaerYed by, 1M.
lH6II, Tbe, repraented u a lambaoaa book, ID Yipettll
to Faayll. 18.
- tranllatioa of, byJaai111 ud qooted, 11.
..-- the Eqliah tranal&tion of, esceptioaable &om Ita
want of_1n!'ity, 186.
(See .scriptluw, ud Iadex to Tale ofScripture.)
Of a eertain eJau, compared to •ch u tell
beacle to meDd faith, S1t,
Birllttl.,. of the 10111 ofJob eommemorated by buqueta,
51.
1J«cJuwV eo111alta the Ammoul&n oracle, eod iofereaee
therefrom, 118.
B«/tllrl, OD the oriciu of tlae feut of Easter, 86.
B.w.nl, eograYioc Ofthe Farueae globe io Speoee'a Poly-
metil, by, 99•
BoOu., ·one of the primitin conatellationa of
the JEtbiopl&nl, 91.
- ridieolo111 trappiop In wbieb the modern &gore of,
il repreaeated, sn.
--or deaeriptioo offtgure of, on ao aa.
cieot 'em, 106.
- - tdentity of, witb Baeebue, Noab, Odria, 114.
--- u an aboriginal couatellatioo may be auimilated
to Adam, Noah, Oairia, Saturn, or Xixuthras, ''"·
s.iltlr the a.Jdeu, Ethiopia, Ud PbCIIIIielut DIIDet
or, DaYbac been npsw-d, Greciu noity aupplied
the uame ad altenicf the &pre, tt9.
- - recopiled by the titlea of Baeehaa, the Hnabucf..
mu, Noah, O.lria,ud Sabuiua, the proper aobjeet of
E.ay VI., 166.
..tdcllril, H""-1-;1-,Jau, NHA, o.irie,
&6aiu, nc-, and .rinl....,.)
a town of Syria ; aod 'l'urkilla aapentltiou
relati•e thf'reto, 1St.
BMl'a 'Dlodorna Sieoloa.' Tlae preniliur ootlo01ofthe
old Cbaldean utrooomen from, ..u, tOS.
.,.,._P--, eurr..ed eyliDden depoaited iD the1 t.
the late Sir Cbarlee Roaae
1 _!hrnilhecl the
Greek ........... repreaented ia beao-pieee to E.ay
Ill.,..._
- - - Sir Williaa R-. the eyllnder of, with dJr
othera, Mprelellted io head.pieee to E.ay I., t.
- - - - - - - - - - eyliDder parcbuecl ia Pa-
leatlne by, 117.
- - - - - - - - - - Ea•ar VIII., oa the nb.
Ject ofhil Syrian pm, addreaaecl to, t6S.
......_, M!:J .quoted eoneemiur the h•baadry lmpl•
-tl of amc:a, 107. •
lhW, r,c.v, u cited by Sberburo, eoaeeran., the eoa-
atellatioal Cepbea auil Cu.iopia, S46.
Bridr8,ancient &abyloaia, tile town of Hellab and itl...
mo. beilt with, ••
- - - - - - - - the aappoeed IDhltance of
whieb they are made, tS.
BrilfM .If--. See , .....
.&-, 8ir n..u, OD the J>or-ttar, ad CuieoJar daJI,
"· the Dotr..tar identified by, with the
Sothle ofEcfpt, ad the Sfriaa ofJBthlopia, ..u,
Mr., erroaeo• opioioa of, u to the .,_.. of
Moaee, • like the eupaviop ofa aipet,' 6.
-- oa the early mipatlona of the CUibiteaJ. Ut.
- llllall eeulptDrel nppoeed by, to be qyptian AJ.
mauac:b, DO•
Brpal, Mr. JeMI, some .-ertio111 or,u to EtJpt, appU.
aWe to Wellern Alia, •·
- - - - - aarcum of, oa the AatiquukD IJo.
dety, 71.
- - - - - 6llaciel or, eoecel'lllq the
taari, tS.
- - - - - - hie authority with retpeet to an.,
and meotioa of E.ec:hoaa, S50. ·
- - - - - - identifieethe Sabeo-Arabiul with the
Culbitu ad a..dim, 151.
...------ the etymolopcal arpmeuta of, ridi·
ca1ecl, 368.
BtiU, the Zodiacal, ia eopand eyliaden BeDeftUy cleo
notea the Vernal '1.
- - - OD Sa'*- aipetl refen to the sodiacal Up
Taurua, 76.
- - - the odct.l of the sodiac,lafened to ha•e been
the Urna, '18.
- - wonlllppel throaghout Alia, and wby, n.
- - - the paeral de•otion to, autbeatkllted by Mr.
P.ltaiaht from nriou anthoritiea, 80.
- - of Broue, from Cblna, cODiipecl to Mr. au;..
.tie, 116.
- - - the palace ofthe horned, In Cbioa, ao.
- - IJDIIII broue, reaemblius the cattle ofBlndoe-
taa, broqht from Babyloa Lockett, 11'1.
- - - the Babylouiaa, Phaeaiciul, Greek, aad EQpo
tiaa, ibid.
- - - the myatie of Mycerinu, u eshibited at Sail,
119.
Digitized byGoogle
INDEX. 379
Bd, tbe myatic, ofMy«riDu, atory or, with iaterpreta-
tion, tt6.
Btlll, the, of tb• Zodiac, and Temple ofDeadera, deemed
of Phcrnician origin, ttl.
- - - - - not of
earlier date than the Macedonian conqoeat, HS.
(See Tn,..,,)
Bvbltu, the ancient Syrian cityof, on Mouat Lebaaon,ttt.
c.
Cabm, Tea,kqftlte, entered by wbo deatroyed
their ima(lea, t86.
Caktltta, retonlt of Captain Lockett's letter from, to the
author, tt.
CaltltdGr, the stare lit'ned for a general, or aystem ofsigna,
to writing, 165.
---- ancient relique found at Axum, •opposed to
have been uaed u a, 171.
Hymn quoted in ufe,.nce to the emble-
matic ail(nification ofa dragon or serpent, 48.
Canulapard..lil, a small atar in the forehead of, for a while
tbe pole-Alar, !08.
CaaZ. of the Euphrates aad Tigrll, inundation• of thete
rivel'll previous to the cntting of the, rtOte,
Caen-, The in the Zodiac of Dendera, denoted by
two Scarabei, 254.
Caddabrwm, the aacrtod, of MoteS, the IIDipt of, agreeing
with the seven planeb, 313.
- - - - - - deemed a
iottmment by and ClemenaAle.uodnnua,338.
Cap1-ai-Citadi6, or the ataioed baud, ofCauiopeia, alluded
to in gem, 345.
c,n-,., curioua dt>lioeation of, on a Babylooiaa signet,
190.
CardiJeal Poi11t1, thon1ht to hne been derived from the
MTttic A.h,.rim of the Sah-na, 340.
CtUIIOpri4, or Cuahiopia, ainularity of the caabedra or
chair of, to those on cf'rtain Perllt'politao
and to our old-fit•hioned chairs with high backl, 344.
---- certain acara of the uteriam, individual uamea
of, M.S.
- - - the substance of the clauil'allegends, concern-
ing, 36!.
---- the figure of, inverted by the Greek utrono-
mers, 363.
---- and the Northf'rn Crown, mutual rising of, io
the latitudes of JEthiopia, 348.
- - - - - aod the Pleiades, co-
in the phenomena of, which are charac.
terillt'd on the Bouadatou g"m, 366,
(See Caliopia.)
Cll.lt4w c11cl PoUu, sul'po•ed lignl'ea of, on a Grecian bora-
scope, 47.
C41111di011 and coocomitaaey as diatinguiabed by Sir Tbos.
Browa, relative to aiderial Aigul, aud aiderial ioflueoces,
37.
Cll!flu, C-onnt, and other Contin••llal autiquaries, mis-
call tbe cyliodera of the Saheao natioDI, •amulet•,' [)8.
Ctdnau, authority on the very early existence of eo·
grning in Chaldea, 6.
CepheiU. See
Ctrtl, a of, inferred from Virgil to have ool.'e
uiated, 201.
CIIGidtan bif'roglyphics founded on a,tronomy, 11.
- - - priests ettabliabed cerlain mutual rilina:a of the ·
eun aad 111ars, as unerring aigna of the forthcoming
1811001,
Cltt!ldtcu, the ' graven images' of tlae, accord with thoee
prohibited in the decalogue, 37.
- - - their faith in the oraelea of aatroiOfiY, 38.
CAald-, their mode ofeuting nativities, M.
- - - the, aaeeaton of the Jews, whoee
to their myatic coetoms oceuiooed tbe rigid probib•·
tioDI of their lawgiver, 37.
(See A..,.U. aod Bllh¥1oa.}
Clurrlmurpe, nuable to wnte, ratified hia deeda aad eclic!•
by the impreuion of a aignet set in the pommel of hat
sword, lb.
Chartomi qf E.f!lpt, IJitem of hieJOgiJPhiCI eatablilbed at
aa early period by the, 1!9.
- - - - - - geometrically accurate in projectiog
the main linet of their utrooomical designs, 248.
Chllllli-, or original Ckaldeaaa, custom• of the, obae"ed
by Job, 50.
- - - and Cbaotidim, probably the ume, local eta..
to011 of, fiDtt, b:J,
- - - the, or Cbtlldim, the parents of the Cbaldeana,
aad .Ethiopiana,
routed at Aahteroth·Karnaim, 7f,
CAtplldtu, an utronomical prieathood who deviled hiero-
glyphin, 69.
- - - homage paid to the ; the appellation derived
from Cbepbena, fiDtt, t'T6.
CAtpltetu, and Coshiopia, the pretence ofjon tbe aphere,
and on the moet ancaent geu11, a proof ot JEthiopiaa pri·
ority in Astronomy, 90.
- - - - two of the primitive coDBtella·
tiona of a.'trooomt>rs, 137.
- - - oflEihiopia, and reputed founder of the
Astronomical Priestliood, 166.
- - - ll grf'at aatrunomer, or patron of the edence, u
Rye Tyeho Brllhl', 346.
- - - all anthon concur in auigning great fame UKI
antiquity to, 3.50. ·
Volney'• researches, extending to many gene-
ratioaa before Ninua, do not reach to the era of, 353.
Clmlbi-, the figurea of the, not deacribed by Mosea, S.
---- ordained u the garniture of the ark at the time
MOIIt't prohibited graven image., 36.
---- the, of Ezekiel, accompanied by revolving ml•
chinery, 31!.
- - - appearing of Jehovah on the mercy...eat be-
tween the, meaoing of, rtOte, 315.
- - - or cherubic aigna, Illumed to have been utro-
nomical emblems, S!O.
- - - - - - - tbe Lion aad Man of Ezekiel,
snppollt'd to have been Leo and Aquariua, which theu
denoted the solsticea, ibid.
- - - - - - animate, the uterism,, probably, by
wbiclt the cardinal poinb of the aodaac were denoted,
3tt.
the aigu Scorpio anppoaed to
have been occupied by an Eagle in the Zodiac of Abra-.
ham, ibid.
- - - divulged in the Pentateuch concerning
the nature of the, ibid.
- - - the, aud palm trees of the Hebrew temple.
opinion of the author 111 to tbe utrononaical meaoiog
of theae erublema,
---- the wings of certain of the, said to hu·e ex-
tended twenty cubits, "*''• St5.
- - - and wheels, deacribed by Eaekiel to ban been
covered with 316.
- - - - - - auppoeed to have repuaented COD·
stellatioua, having 1tan inaened in a brilliaat manner,
ibid.
CAet114M, or Ghotham, aignification of the Hebrew word,
u it reapeebsealing, St.
cmvtialu adopted the crost as a aicn of the of
covenantat, ts.
2 z
Digitized byGoogle
S80 INDEX.
CiriiiV, Mr., tbe oplalon of, conceniiDc a m,.tic aymbol
attached to BoOt..,,..,, 101.
ahew• myaik rites were performed In bo-
aoor of husbandry In ..Ethiopia, A"yna, China, Ecpt,
Greece, "'""'ia, Phoenicia, 1t'l.
CAiv...,....., comparison of the era of Noah with tlaat of
Apott'll, U5. .
- - particular• brought together for estlmatiq
the date of a gem,. uo.
· computation u to the orip of the rites of
o.iril, 18!.
- - - - period of the Metonic or Lunar eyrie, HIT.
- - - - adnntagel a•orded by the prec:euiou of the
equinoxes,
- - - - computation,u to the dateofthe templeaof
Jupiter-ammon, 136.
- - founded on utrooomiral phe-.
aomena, from whic-h the date of the templea ofJupiter·
ammon is corroborated, t4t.
- - - - - - - u to the date of the Dendera
ceilinp, 151.
- - c-oncerning the era of the
Clllhite cooatellatiom, Mf;· · .
relative to ·the coronation fea.
tiftla held in ..Ethiopia in honour of the C&DODilled
queen, Cnabiopia, S70.
of the Septuagint, Eoaebioa, VOIIioa, and WaJ.
ton, at nriance with the r.reaent ayatem, f6id.
- - - - obacore apota n, recei'fe light fi'om ancient
ICDiptored monomenta aobmitted to mathematical teat,
165.
----- of the Se,Ptoaglnt reckolll Stt8 yean fi'om
the Deluee to the Btrth of Cbriat, S71.
(See .Era, Datt, Pniod, Problftw, n.t, y_.,)
CWtro, quoted to abew the great novelty a celeatial globe
-w» thool(ht in his time, lllltt, 17!.
--- tranalation of the • Phenomena' of Arataa by,
quoted, t81.
- from Balhnw, on the origin of the term Sol, •
giveu to thf' ann,lllltt, 1'14.
- - authority of, with reapect to Arabian or oriental
.£thiopia, M9.
Ci•lnUu, lh«' Bull venerated by the, in c-ommon with
the Sabrana of the Eut, 80.
Clarlu, Dr., thought the aigoeta of the Hebrew patriart'bt
Sat, 4.
ClamtGl Jou,.,.al, artirle in, on the myateriea of Osiris or
Thammn&, t'ommunicated by the Rn. Mr. Faber, 111.
CZar, uwed 11nriently, and even atill in the Eut, for the
imvreatinna from tS.
-- the doon of Joteph'a granary at Cairo aealed with,
rtolt, 14.
-- uaed by the Spbragiahe In aealing rictima for the
altar, 61.
Cokbrootu, Mr., relative to the anrceaaion of the pole•
atan,
Colarn in the Fameaian aphere, placet of the, 99.
(See E'llliiOZtt, SoWi«t.)
C--utllfl&!l and caoaation confounded by the star-wor-
ahipp1'1'11, 87.
Coultllatiort, the, of Eridann1, anppoaed to have been
aobetitoted for one of N eptnne, 4!.
- - - - - - of Arie., •till by coatom the
equinoctial sign, 79.
- - - - - - - - - bec-oming the teat of the ver·
nat eqninoa gave riae to the appellationa Ball·ammon,
and Ball·atb, (wbieh aee), 85.
- - - - - - - - - conJonrlion of Jupiter and Sol
in, the eqnloos, the ongioofJupiter-ammon, (See
Couldlcliotl of Ariea ....t tllat ofCldaiopeia, tbe IJIIehro-
nic rialng of, MO.
(See Aritw, MIIUIINil,
- - - - - - of T11nnaa, aeat of the vernal eqtrioox in
the daya ofJob, 17.
rt"Ye•f'nted tlarongbont Aaia
and Eut Africa in remot«' &a«'•, 79.
bn-ak1n1 the Mundane Egg,
beantifrd allegory of, 80.
- - - - - - - - - the prnper domicile of the pia·
net Venua, st.
- - - - - - · - - - in the Zodiaes of Deaden, ex·
hibitt traita of Gr.dan art, ttf.
(See B.U, T..,...,)
- - - - - - ofLeo, the aeat of the aommer aolatiee
in the time of Job, 17.
- - - - - - - - to be represented in
qoadrature with Tauroa on tbe ColONa! Vue at Lemia-
ao, with to oriPutal trll'fell.-n, 81.
- - - - - - - - alluaiooa to, in ita hoi'OICOpic ca·
pacity, toM.
(See Lto, Lioa.)
- - - - - - of Scorpio, the probable plac-e of the
autumnal eqllillox on the Coloaeal Vue of Ltmilao,
81.
- - - - - - ofSagittarioa, the Mtrolopeat manalon
of the planet Jupiter, 48.
------------ not known u a centaur on
the Aalatic aigneta, 14?.
- - - - - - of Aqnarioa, engbt to denote the Bra·
maiMittiee on the Coloual Vaae at Lemiuo, 81.
- - - - - - - - - - - a primiti'fe .£tbiopian or
Babylonian tip, not moeb tran•mogrified, 91.
- - - - - - - - - - - aignificauee of, in a cer-
tain Sabean gem, tO..
of probably the Leviathan of
St'riptnre, 51.
(Set- farther of th«'ae and other uteriams, eaeh on-
der ita leJpt>Ctive namf'.)
C"""tu.tiorrt, the images of the, on Sableao
gema, nature •nd uoe of, S6--40.
certain of the present, exiated in the time
ofJob,
- - - - - the Habean fij!nrell of the, oot fubiooed
like those ofGr.-..t't', c;s.
---- the figures of thf', attached to ' the Pheno-
mena' ofAratoa, by Hnb. Goltain•, 96.
- - - dt'lin.-ationa of rh.., in the edition of
Attrononoiral by Aldua, 97.
- - - - - in many instancE'$ metamorphoN!d thrclaP
the ot the pot'ta, 109.
- - - - - the fi1ures of the, altered according to the
fanry of Ptolemy, 1M.
- - - - -primitin Sabean repreaentatio,aoflhe,14S.
------ all orisinal colonies or oat1o1111 had their
totf'lary, 170.
- - - - - the, of tbe Bean, gnidt'l for the Arabian
caravana,
- - - - - of earlieat date, peenliar coincidencea by
which aome of their boroac:opic phenomena are marked,
(See A.lltriau, aod certain reapeetive
namea of
Corotto Atutrclit, the, thoutrbt to h.,e been originally at-
tached to Sagittarius, 149.
- - - - - - anppoaed to be the Atarotb of the orien.
tal astronomen, :us.
- - - - - - and C"..uaiopeia, the motaal horoacopic
phenomena and relatiooa of, Ulid.
Collard, Mr., identity of the Cbaldean Sarot with the Me-
tonic cycle by, 75.
Digitized byGoogle
INDEX. 38[
c.IGnl, Mr., ebdeuour of, to coofel' oil the Greeks the
boooar of formiDr tbc &Odlac, *''• 15t.
Cr_,, the, adopted u the Mobammedan emip, for po-
litical reaeo111, 57.
- - - and diAc, meallios of, 111 aometimea collfipred
with Taonlt aud Ariea, 111.
u fonnd Oil sem•, Ita chronological
importance', ttS.
Crnt, inatance rroving the 111e of horoteopic aipeta In,
in the time o Theaena, !7.
en. apblnxea, or ram-beaded, foand by Waddioctoll in
the lEthiopiao templea uf Eut Afric, uo.
Crou, the, 11dopted by Cbriatiall• u a tip ofaolemn rali·
fication ofpledge., U.
C•Jie or Arabian 5pbere iD the Borsian MD68Dm, ita anti-
quity examined, 98.
c...,the tribea of, who •ttled u aborlciuab in tbe Ara-
bian peninaula, 364.
-- canoniud u a sreat promoter of utronomy, 850.
-- the Land of, called JEtbiopia, that ie, Land of
Ct!MiDpi«, aigoifiea, literally, the black or Mooriab Qaeen
Cub, 346. ··
----- or Cuuiopeia, inaupratioll of the aacceMOrt
of Cbepheaa UDder the atart of, u atteated by Tycbo
Brahe, M7.
- - - - u uaociated with other figarea oa an antiqae
pm, 360. .
- - - - nriationa iu the figures of, u repreaeDted by
the Sab•ana and moderna, 36!.
(&!e Cauiopria.)
of tbe, and their early learning in the ab-
acirocea, 59.
---of Yemen, Arabia Felis, or Eutem .Ethiopia,
early alliancet witb the Babylonian monrcha, 90.
---- tbe earlieat migratiooa and aettlemeota of the,
1U.
- thf' ancil'nt metropolis of tbe, umed from their
patriarch Saba, 176.
- - - the, or Homeritea, occupied tbe -•hem parta
of Arabia, tt.').
CyUMa-, renuuna of• metallic axiafound iu the bore ofa, 8.
- - - aubjrct of the largeat here treated of, aoppoaed
to beAateroth-Karuaim leading onward Ball-amuioo,M.
---containing grana aymbola, imapa forbid-
dell by Moaea to be worshipped,
- - - tbe, dilcaaaed i11 Euay IV., apeciticatioa of the
aubjeet 86.
- - - represented iD bead-piece of Eeuy V., bisb an-
tiquity of, 91.
---onder conaideration iD ENay V., horoaeopic
coDteDta of dl'tailed, 105.
- - - tbe, ef Essay V., plaaaible relation of, to Moaaic
hiltory,
- - - tbe Boughton opal, treated of in Euay VIII.,
execoted with great akill, and replete with myatic em-
blems, i6S.
c,liadtr,, engrand, and Chaldean ac:alptarea, helps to the
atady of "·
- - - aubataocea whieh hue pnerally beeu chosen
for, 1.
---eonlfht for, and noerated for occult powert, by
the modem Arabi, t .
- - - nombert fonnd, one Eogliabman Aid to hue
bimaelf of forty, 6. .
- - - seneral dimellliooa and proportioas of, with
other deacriptiona, 7'.
the geue.ral \)Brticular aaea of, inferred, 8.
..-.-- npely iJII8IiDed to lla'fe been aaed u amaleta
or tallaaw:ia, 56.
c,w,.. conaideratio• u to the aabatance and euly
date of certalD larle, 641. .. ·
- - - e•idence ot their haYing !teen oeeuiooally ape
pended to walkins atavea, 65. .
---- the Babylonian, more ancient than any kiiOWD
coin&, 71. .
- - - and other acnlptored anti11nea, important kDow-
ledp to be derived ti'om, 9!.
- - - the utrouomieal pertOnificatiODI moat frequent·
ly fouod o11, 166.
(See Gt.l, G.- I ...,_, lfloU, &.It, SpU.)
ey....,.., the preaent pole..tar, formerly .at- a diltan.ce
from the pole, 177,
Cyprwa, myatie vue, of co'-1 dimenaiona, extant in, de·
acription of, and "'Rgeatiooa u to ita •oppoaed further
COiltenta, Hbmitted to oar Leva1ltine tranllera, 81-83,
D.
n-u, tbe Ben-Adacla of, 8oariahed centoriea before
coiniDtr waa practieed, 111.
Da.UI, alllllion of, to the o.rill, •r celestial watcbera,
D.U,the,ofearlyCbaldean cylinden,coaskleratlollllon,U.
- - - of the Arabian or Cufic apbere of tbe Boraian
98.
---- of the Farneaian globe, inferred from ita fea-
toret, 99.
-- ofcylinder diacoaled in Euay V. S&O. •
- - the Dendera zodiaea, u -omed by the French
pbiloeophert, 115.
- - - - u inferred by the autlaor,
Mf, 168.
---- opal cylinder diaco,Aed in Euay Vllt., 370.
(See C-,.lllli011, l'rNk-, Ti....)
IHutlt, and W"stem descent of tbe lumiDariea, ezpreued
by the AIIHI temt,
1Hft11, a country of Eastem or Arabian ./Ethiopia, 50.
D• Ulttp, ficarea of the t'Oj(rB'fed by, 95.
DtUra of No:slt and Job, apoataciea fioom the, accoaoted
for, 36.
Drity,aolar, of tbe Saba!aoa, u deacribed by Macrobiu,
Da.,•ofNoah or Xi:r.othma, probable allaaiou to the, on
a gem, 119.
- - - - - - - - - - - the,aeema to have been 1111-
tronomically registered,
- - - - - - - - - - - ctortainconatellationa whicla
aeem to hl'fe been appointed to commemorate the,
186.
Defldtna, temple of Iaia at, a Grl'co-Egyptian fabric, 119.
- circular of tlte amaU
upper apartment of, now at Paril, critical retoarka Oil,
tts.
- - - - - - - - - - oblong IIOdiac at, pecollar
c0111traction of, t•7.
- - - - - - refen to a
period 1- remote than the circalar ceiling, 151.
Delloll, M. le Baron, his deacriptioll of bia 'fiait to the
Temple of hil, ..,t, tt9.
the aketcb of tbe Searabteaa of the
Ecptiall aodiac by, !56.
- - - - - - - f&Nimilet of aatiqae pnu receind
from, 369.
Dl P-, authority of, that wine wu flnt recei•ed iD
Egypt from ./Ethiopia, 130.
- - - erroueo111 beliefof, that not a aincle Cbaklean
aculpture wu extant, 157.
DttiUir, tha Peniao, not 10 remotely MJCient u formerly
cooaidered, 195•
- aome of the doctrinea of, reri'fed ill Earope by
Baron Swedenborg, 169.
2 z. 2
Digitized
382 INDEX.
Dildali !*Wf,publlcatioaa ofthe, ealotiad, 97'.
DWMru a&c.lU atteata the early aaperiority of the Sa·
IMnDa in the imitatin arta, 88.
- - - - mention• the of the Chaldeana
In oblemnr the riainra and aettinp of the atan, tot.
------ relates that under the eonne of the pla-
neta the Oialde- reckoned thirty uterilma, which
they termed eoanaelllnc gods, lllllt, lOS.
·---- te.timony of, coneerninr the ble.iop
ueribecl to Batdloa, 1!8.
- - - - - - opinion of, u to the Oficinal Belaa, or
Japiter-Belaa, 140.
------ and Plutarch, dift"erlor onmerieally u to
the ofTyphon and O.iria, their dilcrepanc:y re-
conciled, l7t.
- - - - - the nae made of the alderial bean by
Ara&Jiao tranllen, mentioned by, Mt, tot.
Dioltyftu, allnaion of, to tbe parent cOGDtry of the .Etbi-
opfana, SM.
D}flld.tl-btrlul, aaered rock and ruina of templea at, tSJ.
- - - - - - of, JS'T.
(SeeN.,.,._)
.Dile and Creaeent, u fonod on ,ema, utronomieal and
ebronoiO«<ealUH of, tiS.
between the orlsin of the worda aigoet and
lUI, Jl.
Doi.d, Dr., quotation from the Orphic Hymn to Apollo,
tranalatecl by, t6.
DodMG, the oracular crovea of, not natoral treea, but
worb ofart, m.
D'Oiiwl, u an Hebrew critic, worthy of hil!h eonaidera·
tion, tS.
- - espreaaiona in bia tranalation of Geneala concern-
ing tbe solar orb, t'T...
- the Ayatem of litend ioterpretatioo of, applied to
the aolntion of tbe word AtArt,
Dot.u, Jlr. F,_u, a teamed autiqaary, De Gheyn'a en-
paYed uteriama in 'upplied by,
no-.tret, branches of, aymbolicaUy acalptared ia the
£cptian temples, JSS.
th•, of Noah, aappml!d to bave been aapplanted in
tbe ancient plaoiaph,.rea by Co•a Be,.nices, 186.
Dr-u Alp/14, the era of ita polar poaitioo, !08.
Drflloa, lnnar, or symbol of 1he orbil uf the moon, con-
tained in an ancient engraved horoscope, ..a•
.or-o.d, Sir IJ'..., alln•ion of, to the utrolosic.-al pro-
penally of the AsiatiC", S7.
-------- on tbe aignifieation of Muzarotb,
·'16.
- - - - - aMerts the deficiency of the Greeks
in·acienee and oriental IIOit, 1:i9. .
- - - - - conceminr the accuracy ofKircher'a
planiapheres, ·1SO.
accDMII the Greeb ofbavinr &lsely
tranalated Sabean namee, 1..0.
- - - - - diaaertation of, on the aodiaca of
and Dendera, alluded to, lM, ·168.
- - - - - time required for a atar to emerge
from the aolar raya, stated by, Mt, t8t.
tbe proficiency of the ancienta in
mystic acienee, atteated by, 18'7.
Herodotaa qnoted by, to abew the
aoperiority of the Egyptiana to the Greeks, in bia time,
in utronomy, t!tl.
-------- obaenationa on aketchea or the
Egyptian zodiaea by, tM.
oa the aymbolieal meaning attached
to treea, t81.
---·---- ubaph and utrologer 01ed u syao-
,nymea by, S04.
Dt•• '""• Sir Waa., tbe Bdqlt8i4awof the Caaldeane
esplainecl by, sst.
------theaipilieation of R--,accord-
lug to, sss.
--------the ebroaology or the Septuagint
apprond by, S67.
Dtlbllt, the in Una Major, ita name defined, ud
other particulan concerning it, IIOit, 106.
E.
&.,le, the eonatellatioo of the. bold and •icnifieant aJ.
l111ion to, Ia Ferdoai'a poem, tO.
Ecrlla, the, im&ll(ioed by certain ancienta to ban been
cylindrical, aho Mit, u.
&uttr, df'rived from the Phoenician JEatarte, .Eaterth, or
Aaterotb, 86.
- - obaenatlo111 on the of the feut,16S.
EdY.,. of the aun and moun, the Hebrew and Arabic
e11preaaiona for, 188.
- - - - - ancient aymbol naed to repreaeot, !55.
EU., myatic treea of the Seandioaviana, called Aabten,
in the, m.
.lifl', the Mundane, the retnm of eprior beautifully aytn-
boliaed by the boll breat..ing the ahell of, 80.
- - - - - - - a eoloeaal figure of, at Lemiaao, ill
Cyprna, 81-83.
£opt, Bryant'• obsenationa reapeeting the aeaoty and
broken thread• of ita remote biatory, applicable to
Weatern Aaia, '·
--- Joaeph ioYetted with power oYer, by meana ofthe
king'• aignet, 5.
--- Chaldea, and Canaan, the Hebrewa prone to the
idolatry of, 86.
- - and Cbaldea, method of ea•tinr nativities by tbe
aatrologen of, 5._
--- ceremony of pa..inr and aealiug bulla for the altar
in, 61.
--- the coloaql moaameata of, compared witb eo.
grand gema, 811.
--- hypothelia concerning tbe orisinal coloniaation of,
89.
--- Cbaldea anterior to, in the knowledge of utrono·
my, 9t.
--- the priPathood of, esteemed the poetical upeeta
ofthe sun and stare un..rring tot..ena of the aeaaoaa, tOt.
--- tbe eeleati11l planiopheres u tranamitted by
Kircher, not originaiA, but compiled, lt9.
--- Greece, and Rome, tbe legends of, all more or
leaa ilhlliYe, 15...
--- the deification of Osirl8, aliu Boiitea in, accoouted
for, 167.
--- rites of Oairia introduced into from ./Ethiopia, 168.
- a key to unlock eome of the hieroglypbiea of, ia-
trodueed, tt3.
- tbe native •cienee, art, and eutoms of, vitiated by
the Grerk invuion, tt•.
- - the Tanric aymbob in, during the Ptolemaic
area, altered, ilrid.
- - the indigenoua aculptarea of, appropriately de-
eirned, 117.
--- the eft"eeta of Gre«'ian and Roman prepoaderance
yiaible in the te01plea !18.
--- the utronomen ot, rt•pnted by Herodotae more
akiltul than thoae of Greece, t!O.
-some peculiar in, dllt'ribecl by Wad-
diagton, t30.
- aatronomicaHy divided into nomea, or diatricta,
Gild IIDit, 851.
Egfptia zodiaea, coaaideraliona on the featara of, their
probable date and 111e, us, t6!.
Digitized byGoogle
INDEX. 383
f:nplW:u, application of aipeta by tile priatt of the, at
tbeir aaerifices, 61. ·
- - - the aciences aud arta of the, perbap• derived
from tbe lEthiopiBDI, 89.
---- tbe, aappoted to ba•e entertaiDed ideu of a
fiature atate, 16'1.
---- tbear adoration of the celestial bodiea u stated
by Dr. Long, reolt, 196.
Elnliaia "'fllnWI, in what thry probably
COUJisted, 188.
-------- utraeta from Taylor'• Dillertatioo
OD the, 189.
--------- allllliou to in the publications of
the Dilletanti Society, •ott, ibid.
enaphatical appeal of, to the celestial
in reproof ofJob, 50.
E..blaa ofdabiou import connected with the peraoni6ed
Oairia, 16'1.
Elllmlltl, apleodoar durio1 njpt from a pillar of, iD a
Tyriao temple, 158.
E.,ltlall, Ariea the acljod1ed tutelary coutellatioo of,
170.
EllfOII&'U, u represeuted on the ancient 1ema aod on
moderu globea, !W.
- - - AratoJ ignorant of the prototype of, 13!.
---- Vitru•iu eqnatlr unacquainted with, 13!.
- - - Ptolemy no Hercalea, but allota hia
apace of the beateu to Eogonaail, l M.
Ew•Ml signeta used before the time of Motea by the
Hebrewa, •·
---- llluatratiou of mystic sigua,-Head-pieee to
Esaay IJ.; the lumioou Bible; the mighty fiat, ' Let
tbt're be light ;' the ereacent-moon; the antique acroll
of Job,&c. 18,
---- repreaeotatioo of a ,.,e, probably the largest
in the world, decorated with aodiaealaculpllare-fron·
tispiece-for deaeriptioo of which aee 80-M.
ofan impreuioo from a cylinder
ofJasper, brour:bt from Babylon by Capt. Lockett, Pll·
larged from the origiDal, aod forming a vipette to the
title-page.
----------the •ueeeasive pole..tan in Dra·
co and Una-Minor, with a diagram of the poles of tbe
equator and ecliptic,-an outline, 103.
----------- ofaeven teulptared cylinders or
sipeu, and two 1igneta of the hemiapheroid•l form,
diaiuterred at B11bylou and iD t'hceniti•-head-pieee to
Euay I., t. ·
- - - - - - - - - ofa Grecian hoi'OICopicalail(llet
enlarl(!d frooa the origiual-head-piece to FA.Iy Ill.
[N. 8. By miatalr.e the writing-eo!!raver baa termed
tlaia a e,liader, whereu it ia au -l•it;net.J
<61.
---------- nf au impreuion from a nry
ancient Sableau eyliDder-head·piece to Euay IV.,
56.
- of another S•btean cylinder en-
larged from the original, contaiuiu« the Cbaldean con-
atellationa of Aquariua, Eogouuia, the
the Bear, and &be atar Fomalbant-beacl-piece to Etaay
v., 117.
- - - - - - - - - oftbeuteriam Tanru,uaculp-
tured iu China, iD Auyria, iD Canaan, iu i:cpt, and in
Greece, 116.
- - - - - - - - of tbe eoutellated Huabaod-
man, and bia principal »tan,-an outline-head-piece
to &My VI., t.;6.
of the hicroglypbical tymbol of
the vernal equinox, u vvioaaly sculptured iD £tbiopia1
Tbebea, and Dendera, to9.
E•ll'fiMI repreaentation of a eoloaal head of Aries, or
Ammon, and of a aodiaeal Taurua and Arlee, frem
antiqnea of each In the Brltilb Mnaenm, and in the
great work of the French Satau eouceming
together forwing the bead-piece to Euay VJL, fbill.
-- of the c:imalar ceiling in the
Temple of IJia at Dendera, t<63.
ofthe face ofIlia ; theaolar diac
ao4 radiance; and the •igo Cancer, from tbe obloog
zodiac at Deudera, t60.
of an )Ethiopian figure holdiD1
forth the mystic braoeh, ibid.
- - - - - - - ofan lmpreuloofromthe Bough-
ton cylinder, enlarged, cootaiuin1 the graven image of
an Allhre-a winged aun-image-laoar ereacent-Aide-
barln and tbe Plei'ad-Ateroth--the Colhio-
two other antique aatronomical fiprea-
bead-piece to Euay VIII., tt;S.
---------of a Babylonian Aabapb, or
Prieat, in outline, boldin1 forth the axia of an uhre,
with the coaunncti•e auo, moon, and leading ata.r in the
field of t11e acolptnre, t88.
- - - - - - - - - of liD lmpreulon from a Baby-
lonian signet of the bemiapberoldal form, contaiui•g
tbe Cbaldean Caprlcom,-au aabre-braoch,-ereacent-
moon, &e., i6id.
- ofan outline from the tombl at
Nakabi·Ruttum, to illuatrate tbe oriental hyperbole,
Ben-adad, or dc:Jcendant of the ann, ibid.
----------- of comparati•e outlines of the
Sat..ao and Grecian fignrea of the uterilm Cauiopeia,
361.
- ofthe winKed aoo, and diagram
of tbe tropics, from Denon'a cylinder, ibid.
---------·- of the nuder •nmce of a acua-
bEDI from the Brit. Mua., ibid.
iD intaglio, practiaed in lhe time of M01ea, "·
Ttrah1 the CIJBidean, laid to hue
been •ened iu, 6.
--------probable manner in which it wu
effected iD the early agea, 65.
-------atorea ofantiqnariu knowledge pre-
.ened by, ibid.
Epip/tuiP, St. alln1iou of, in tbeapoerypbal gc.tpel of En,
to the tree of life, tat.
.Ef•ctor, pole of the, denoted in the circular ceili8J at
Deode111, 150.
Eflliltotlial and Sulatitial Coturea, places uf the, iD the
F11rueaiao sphere, 99.
------------- ecliptic poiota of, mathe-
matically Blligned by A,..uimander, SSt.
Ef•U.oz, the vernal, the pauing of, trom Taurna intoAriet,
an epoeba ofgreat mument to 8J, 85.
-------- aocieot bieroglypbical aign of the tran-
ait of the, from Taurus to Aries, 115.
- - - memorable, wheo Jupiter 1tood in conjunction
wilh Sol io AriH,
---- precU.ioo io the ofy not to be e:r.-
petted iD tbe earlirat ages ofS11bEan astruRomy, SiS.
---- the colure of the vernal, tbonJ!II reredt!d from
Sueeotb-Beuoth to abe •tan of Mnaca, the Men of Ba-
bylon continued to venerate the furmer cluster, ibid.
Eqviaoza, placet of the, \\Mil Plel•dea led tbe year,
11"'-
in the Angoatan Age, m.
---- Preeeuioo of tht', the great eentnry.Jaaod of
Time'• Dial, import•oce of tbe, in reator-
iug decayed dates, l!U.
aodiaeal tranaitiooa eaoae4
by, bow promulga&ed 1t1 the Greeu, !IW-5.
Digitized byGoogle
384 IN 0 EX.
Bftl'-tll, preeellioa of, tbe moral ud rellcioaa
qoe.
oea to the atar-worabippen resultiiiJ frOm the, n8.
-___,- anppoaed aymhola and of the, in the cir-
cular uiliu1 of DPndera, t48.
(See Coltan, Galta ef HtaWII.)
F..rida••• a t'OD•tellation Ntppoaed to ban anpplanted one
more auC'ieut, .s.
Enlria1, Mr., rf'l-ult of iunatit:ationa of, u to the allti·
quity of the PI'Piau t68.
&al, T1•pk nf, '':fP"""d 10 have been .acred to :\mmon,
(aee Dtrtd,..au ft6,
.1ia!tJ 1., acldr....ed tu the late Sir J-ph Banka, eyj.
denee contaioed in, that the Cbaldeao and Arabian
aipetf. are """ u tbuse alluded to io tbe Peatateueb,
aod early profane write.... viii., 1.
.£a.v 11., addr-d to C..ptaiu Abraham Leekett, abewa
thataocb aignf'ta were oot roerely matrkes for aellll, but
were uaed for Yilible myatic: sip, ud are aimilar to tboae
snwenimaf:et the- Moaeaprohibited,•iii., 18.
Ea., 111., addr-d to Captain Abraham Lockett,
abews, in treatanc ofa boroecoplc aipet, that
tbeae myatic uaed by eYery indi•idoal, were not
ud optional devir.ea, but wereaacredly uaigned
to each penon u an ahatract of the heaYelll at their
natal hour, Yili., ft.
F.Maf IY., addreued to Captain Abraham Lockett,
lbewt, lo treatioc of the laqe Sabean cylinder, that,
u weU u to indiYidnal, thue aipeta were applieable to
public pnrpoaea, both of relilion and juriaprudeac:e, 56.
E.., Y., adclrHaed to R. P. Koi4bt, Eaq., lbewa, io
of another 8ahaean cylinder, the priority of tbe
..£tbiop1ana of Wntern Aaia in utronomy, and that
IDIIly of the of the modem aplaere owe
their orisin to that people, &c. 81.
E.., YI., addreaaed to the Earl of Maccleafield, ahewa,
in treating of the conatellated Sabeu Haabaodmau,
wboae atan aernd In aome countriea u the myatic ligna
of the ae11001, the meaoin1 of tbe oumerooa alle1oriea
in•ented by different oationa for promoting the ritu
reqaired to be pdid to thi.a uni•enally wonbipped •II·
nifier ; with a poatacript coacemiiiJ the motion of the
pole of tho equator about that of the esplaiu.
m, the effect it hu of hrincinc dil'erent atara io
eeaain proumity to the pole, 156.
Eaoy YII., addreued to Earl Spencer, llhewt, in
ol the two atellar aig01 Tauroa and Ariea,
adored u the leaden of the Sabaean yearl
tbe orifio of many of tbe moat ancient aymbola UICI
myatenea of the Euptiana; added to which ia a
diaaertation on tbe IIOdiaca of and Dendera, !09.
1:-r Y/11., addresaed to Sir W. R. Bonpton, abewa, in
t,_ting of a Yery curioua Syrian cylinder, the aignilica·
tion of the naroerona emblema wbicb lt
iu the courae of which are also iUuatrated llnd esplaiued
many other Sabeu remaiaa, aome of which ae"e to
throw new light on ae•eral obacure pll!lges of scrip-
ture relative to myAtic ceremoniea ao often lllluded to
by the Hebrewwriten; ud by which Sabeu hi.atory,
aud the origin and earlieatappropriatiou ofutronomy,
11re much elucidated, !65.
Enlvr, Book of, referred to, the aeal of Aha·
auerus beins delivered to Haman, !6.
Ellllo:tu, Aratua ia hill 'Phenomena' poetized the •phere
of, 107.
Euebiu, ucient oracle quoted by, relative to Bootes,
11.16.
llet, the Apocryphal Goapel of, citatipa from, relative to
the Tree of Life, tat.
.iJtkW, abowa that tbe imitative arta at a very early pe-
rjod were pruti.aed in Aaayria, 88.
EltJcifl, alladea to a nti•e CUllom of puttiiiJ tbe brandi
to the nOJe, tss.
- hia phrue ' puttin1 the branch to the ooae,• ex.-
plained, !9t.
- the Lion and Mao of, Leo aod Aquariua, aipa of
the aolaticn, 3!0.
- - omita t11e aatral of the aoimala
to ' the gatea of beaveo; 3tJ.
F.
F.Mr, the ReY. Mr., qooted on the aabjeet ofOairia beillg
lamented by the female• of 111.
F.lllt of Venaa aod Adonia referred for ita orilio to at-
facta, tst.
- - Hercnlea cootendintr with tbe Licarea, adYIDCCCI
by Hycinaa L\ the ori(dn of the eonatellation, 136•
- - Oeiril, lai.a, ud Horus, tbe metaphorical meaniaf
of the, 169.
- - Jup1ter reluctant to appear before Berculet, •
tronomical Of the, f39.
(See /..4trM.)
Febln of Plutarch aod Diodorua conceruing Typhoa dia-
memberinc Oairit, explained, t7'f.
Far11taia Globe, the date and of, ln•estilated,
99.
Ftalt 'If Tra.ptc., the Jewi.ah, u it appean to relate to
Aateroth·Karuaim, '18.
Fmlori, mention of u oriental aipt in tl1e aocieDt Per.
Aiao poem of, 11.
Fali-tlll, the Phallic, of Oairil, by what horoacopic lip
probably governed, 181.
the Sa"-a, appointed bJ tbe mutual upectl of
tbe atan,
---- the coronation, of JEtbiopia, held under the
of the caooaiMd Quaen, Caaaiopeia, S?O.
bulJ.horued, foand on ucient 1ema, meum, of
COOIIdered, '15.
- oa modern ,Wbea much metamorphoaed &om tbe
ori,tnala, 9t.
Fiu Art•, Homer makes Pbaloicia to han taken tbe lead
of io the, 88.
F....uAat, altar of the firat mapitnde, omitted oa Far-
neaian Globe, tOO. •
- - - ita boroacopie poaition u found on the Sabeau
1em of Eaaay V., 105.
- - - beliat'll risint of, probably intended to be es·
preaaed on cylinder, 11'7.
- - - in the Cbaldeu 11ea termiaed the stream from
Aqnariua, u atiU abewn oa the celeatial 1lobe, 151.
Flnllnttlk, the dialogue of, imitated In esplainiuJ the
term Aahret, u applied to a llahaean plaoetarium or dlo
•inin1apparataa, t9f.
Fllrlln-, Mr., hia geographical di.aaertation on the Ana·
huia by, quoted, ,..,,, US.
F..,...111, on the eYideDC'e of Arabian authors, makea S..
beiam to hue pre'failed ia Arabia before the ftood, 160.
Fourrltr, eo1inent for hia kaowledp in art, science, aod
antiquity, ttf.
J:'rtwd, Mr., teatimony of, ia hi.a Annual Aatrooomlcal
Work, u to the interpretation of the Sabeu
1ewa by the author, 19.
- - - opinion of, u to tbe Metoaic Cycle beiac
known to the Chaldeaaa, '15.
Frlnllilpi«t, u engraved representation of the Orphic,
or Mundane Eg, with tbe aodiacal Tauraa acalpturecl
thereon, 80-84,
G.
quoted concemin& tbe 1piritual qeaciea of the
v.laneta, 63.
Digitized byGoogle
INDEX. 385
01*, oar feut of Euter thoqbt to be of PbaeaiciaD ori-
cio by, 86.
fabaloua capbearer of Jupiter, oriciu of,
eaplained, IIOk, 1$7.
G«ln qfH-, aeriptural metaphor by which the nmal
eqoiooa and summer solatice are signified, St1, :SM.
(;ltlflu, Dr., bia iaterpretatioo of certaiu teata of Snip-
Gftll, of Babylon, Nioenh, Penepolia, Sidon, and other
diatricts of Aeayria, Penia, Cauuo, and oriental
JEthiopia, utility of, to science and hiatory, vi.
/
tore, 89, 65, 3U,
--- eognnd Sabeao, used aa ratification aigueta or
Ieala, 8.
--- great numben abown to be foand1 from nrioua
accouuta, 6.
--- miatakeo by aome aotiqnariaJia for amuleta or
. taliamans, 56.
- - of the inferior clueet dift'er both in abape and
work-nahip from thoae of their aaperion, 60.
--,- certain inferences respecting, corroborated by the
writioga of the propbeta ud patriarchs, 104.
- - high antiquity of the Sabeao, and theirconsequent
nlue to virtuosi, 106.
(See CrlWhr, GNMa l.qt, Siflltl.)
Glllllil, emphatic aeoae contained ia the lint Hebrew
word of, t!l6.
GautA,_.,, dericea on aipeta uai!Jied by thoae nned
in the myatery of, ft,
Gibboa, dcac:ription of the climate and production of
Arabia Felia by, 855.
Globe, the Fameaian, Volney'a opinion of the antiquity of
questioned, 99-100.
-- celeatial, with drcomvolviag poles, npable ofaalv-
ing proble011 concerning the notation ofthe earth'auis,
contrived by Mr. Lee for the uae of the author, 168.
-- tbe E(typtiao aymbol of the winged, with reference
to the aame on •i&net•, 166.
Glo6t., ficurea on the modern, much metamorpboled from
the original&, u on antique geme, 91.
--- the 01e of, but httle known iu the Au!!uataa •e•,
171.
G•ld, the Chaldnn root whence the word ia 1uppoeed to
have bt>eu derived, t10.
-- leave• tlae tmthl of phil010pby to be sought by hu-
man indnatry, 814.
Golla, uf the word u by the ancient
Greeka,Mit, 44.
---of Greece and the Titaoa, the battle of the, utro.
oomically eaplaioed, 45.
--- the coauaelling of the Chaldea1111, u mentioned by
IIOU, tOS.
Godlltire, hie llatemeot of tlae with which the
Jews watcht>d the changes of tlaat moon by which
feuta were regulated, 78.
Golnitll, figure. of the comtellationa in the Syatagma
Anteornm of Grotiu• probablf done by, 96.
Goud, Dr. J , l\1., the difficulty ut the pUAgt in Job, • It
ia turned u clay to the aeal,' declared bf• tt.
- - - - interpretation of an astrouomtcal plllllge in
Job, by, .Z.O !IDle, Hi.
- - - - a p-ge from Job, traoalated by, applicable
to aipeta, t8.
----critical annotation by, relative to the implied
aeoae ef puaage in Job, l!9.
- - - paaaagea from hie nniou ofJob, which evince
the Arabian cuatom of eo111111tins and appealing to the
atan in thoet> agee, 511,51, 5!.
- - - - observatioM frum, and ofhia venioo
relative to the bOll of mioieten belie•ed to be employ·
eel in eaecatins the oulioationa of God, ll19, taO.
Geod, Dr. J. M. quoted aa to Montucla'a opinion ofArabia
beins the parent of astronomy, SSt.
Gnnn lfllfllla, the oee of. prohibited by Moaea, &s.
- - - - - the prohibited, coaeidered to hue bftn
buroaeopic aigoeta, 86.
partic:alarly diltioguiabed from molten
37.
- - sip for t'llllin1 to mind things not Yiaibly
preaent, 38.
- - - - - PbUo and Dr. Hyde atate that Terab wu
a maker of, 59.
- - - - - the, of which the author treata, probably
1imilar to such u Terab ia deaeribed to have -de,
ibi4.
- - - - - peculiar reyolution which the Hebrew na-
tion wu undergoing when the oae of, waa forbidden,
68.
- - - - - of the Sabeana, thOil' in particular whirIa
are thonsht to have been moat otl'eaeive, 815.
(See Cylillcftr, Ga., /dOZ., Sipn.)
GT«ia horoaeopic aignet, the confi!JifltioDI aa repre-
aeated on, deacribed,
- year, the utrooomical phenomenon by wblch it
wu regulated, 161.
Gmct, early me ofsigaeta in, from the writiop of J&cby.
toe, 1'1.
- - the deitiea and primitive religion of, derived from
the SableaO., "·
--- the spiritual ageota auppoaed to preaide io the
bnnaly bocliea over the earth and waten, 6.nt wor-
•hipped in, reolt, 45.
- - and the old !Sahean nation., the astrological aig·
neta of, compared, 49.
- before the fine arta flonriabed in, bad reeoane to
Pbaenlcian armta, 88.
--- the channel by which the rites and myeteriea of
Baccbaa were conveyed from the Sablean fountaio-bC!1141
into, 161.
---the simple atar-worabip of the Sabeaae beeame
poetized on Ita iatrodaction into, 164.
--- tbt •phere of, peopled with modified fignrea ofthe
couetellataune found iu the Babylouiaa and Phaeaiciao
temple•, 169.
--- the brolllle Tanflll of, so contrived that the aym-
bola of the auo and moon, aa the orba happeaed to be
posited, might be altat"bed, aiugly, or in ayzygea, tlf.
---and Rome, deference paid to Fcpt by, in astro-
nomy, mythology, and art, ¥18.
--- atter the Macedooiao cooqueat, introduced into
the Egyptian temples variatio01 from the old native
atyle of the country, ibid.
--- bad her first rudiment• of aatrooomy from the
Chaldeao., probably through Phcr.ni('la, 349.
Grt.kl, the, hmited in their aeieotific acquiremeota, aad
ignorant of the oriental tonguea, ltOit, 1¥9.
----converted Bel, the great Sabau Deity, into
their Jupiter, 189.
- - - - coo•ereion of BaiJ.amtiUin into Jupiter-
moo, by,
Gnttiu, tbe triveo by, in the Arateo-
mm, not authentic, 95.
great error in the uae of the word, aa adopted in
lhe traoalatioo of the Eugliab Bible, t85.
--- eumplea where the Hebrew wurd hu beea fatae-.
ly rendered, m-SIO.
GTOH-Ifltlrlitip, never practi»ed in auy part of the earth,
306.
(See Allrt.)
Gfl•• the fabled rin1 of, no proof of talismanic: ptnl
beius osed, 57.
Digitized byGoogle
386 INDEX.
H.
B.W, (aee JfiW).
(aee Jflla.n.-).
Htlpl', Dr., oo the Coptic etymon of the word Oairia,
1!8.
Hllftai, Jllllaj!e from the prophet, u it relatea to the term
' aeal' uplaioed, 16.
HelleJ, Dr., estimation in whieb the mt.tonic cycle wu
held by, ,..,,, 197.
H-. the poateritiea of, aod the they occupied
in the primitive agea, SoU.
H-, receint the ring of king Abuoerua to empower
him to esecote the royal decree, 16.
Ha.etla, city of, whence the probable derintiou of ita
name, 83.
He.ahoa, 1\Ir., the subject of the Egyptian aodiaca die-
cuaaed by,
- - - thought to have diac:onred the aigoifica.
tion of the o1itred hawk, 14SI.
- - - - - - conjecture of, u to what it denoted by
the amaller beetle in the Denderaoiao aodiac, 256.
HIIJIInwy, Mr. the modem Ecyptian trueller, companion
of Mr. Waddington, 159, tt8.'
Henrter, Mr., atatea the doora of Joaeph'a granary to be
aealed with clay, ...Ct, 14.
- - - - - hia iuterpretation of tbe aabject of Solo-
mon'• Song, ,..,,, 85.
H•k,, th! mitred, a aymbol used by the Egyptiaoa for the
atar Sinaa, 149.
- - - - - aDd lotoa-crowned a«ptre Died to
aymboliae the brginning of the aothic period, ibid.
Hem, Major, outline of the aodiac drawn by,15t.
H-, the g11tea of, utrooomieal aipi6eatiun uf the
phraoe, Sit, 3t4. ·
H-, the, rt'UODI for the Hebrew word Jflla beiog·IO
Oro. i., 31.
-----primitive coaatellatiooa of, and peculiar eo·
Incidence• which are ohaenable in their mutual phe-
nomeDII, 866.
H._ languagt., a peculiar aod individual import attach-
ed to every literal character uaed in the formation of
pure worda, t9.'1.
Hthr,.,., period when they appear to have publici)' adopt·
ed regal ail(neta, 34.
- - - tbe c11atoroa oftheir Saba!an anceatora preaened
among the, S7j.
(Hee A6rela.a, Gretltll I-,n, ldoltdrf, 1-lilu,
M-.)
Helq/&-Billwa, the Chaldean, a dial or inatrument for mea-
taring time, SSt.
Htllcll, town aud environs of, built chiefly with the bricka
of Babylon, t.
u-.an otlic·er of the Jewish temple, 319.
HtMU.,, Mr., modern figure of Cuaiopeia from the pia·
niapbere of, 363.
Htakll, Rev. Mr., character of u an antiquarian connoi$-
atnr, ti.S.
- - - - - - - the date uf the zodiac of Dendera ac·
to, !t3.
on tbe authority of Arabic anthon, mentiooa
t\ldebarln among the primitive deitiea of that country,
289. .
the representative of the ancient Engonuin, Sa·
bzan figure of, tSt.
---1'yrian 111mple of, emerald and gold pillara in
the, nott, tb8, 307.
Hmru1, or Mercariua Triamegistt11 of Egypt, tbe plani·
Mpberea of, 195.
...-- the utronomical allusion to, iu l'huarcb'a legend
of Horus and Iaie, t3?.
H...,.,, dirma thllt enry Aalyriae poaaeaaed a aipet
01' ani, 3, "'·
- - - - to the teatiruony of, the Greek
poeta were utrologen abo, 49.
- - - - e11preuly atatea tbatt Oairia it ayooaymoua
with BacebiU', U'T.
- - - - description of the superb temple of Hemalea,
at Tyre, by, ...u,
----- say• of Saba, that only Jupiter and Bacebua
are there wonhiJIIH!d• 1b9.
- - - - iacomJJtent u to the channel by whichGreece
received tbe O•iriiln rite,, .U. '""'• 161.
- - - - the ttndiona reserve of, in meotioninc tbe &.
b;pan myateriea, 191.
- --- comment on bit equivocation ('OIIC8J'IIing laie,
19t, 193.
- - - omita aU mention o( tbe Temple of Deadera,
Ito.
----- oa tbe esclaaive worabip of Jupiter and Bac•
chua at Saba, t34-t36.
- - the allegory ofJupiter being coy of Hercnlea,
from, t38-t39.
- - - - declarea the Pboeniciaaa to have been a colony
from Arabia, 351.
Beron, the, of antiquity, bow of eeleatial deaeent, ex·
plaioed, 49.
Herlelul, t11e late SirW. bitutronomieal pre-emineace,366.
Hnecla-bv, iu Arabia, Temple ofJupiter-ammon, remains
of, at, H5.
Huiod, the ' Workt ud Daya• of, abewa that be ander-
atood utrology, f9.
--- utrac:ts from, to abew that the extra-aodiacal
aigoa were utrolocleaJ, 1cu.
- the •r;rParance of the aiga of the return o( apriog
u by, 3fj.
- - meotiou of the Tropics by, onder the term atiD
used, sso.
Hlleotidi•, •ignification of, u Died io tbe Book of Joh)
5:1, 53, IIOte.
mode ofeogravintr, on aigaeta, 5.
-----· the Cbaldean, founded on utronomy, 11.
- - --- utrooomic11l, the aabjecta of the ancient
aigneta, 35.
- - - - - tbe graven,' the likeneueaofthiogain hea-
ven above,' u prohibited in the second commandme11t,
31.
- - - - - the boroacope of any penon recorded oa
aigneta by, t 05,
- - - -- served iodelibly to rerord the moat momeo·
tom facta, 110.
------ of Chaldea, Eogoouia aot npaide-down, ae-
cordiag to the, 134.
- - - - - attaebed to tbe conatellated Haabandman,
167.
- - - - - ll&tronomical, coeval with the groupiog of.
the alan, 168.
------ et)·moo and signification of tbe word, flO•
- - - - - the, of Egypt, a aymbol attached to the
Aries aod Taurua of tbe to be •tudioualy ob--
•ervetl iu the way of aolving, !tS.
- - - - - probable meaning of where used-
aa, !!15.
- - - - - preceded written descriptions and dia-
counes, 113.
-----parts of the Pentateuch thoo&bt by Sir W.
Drnmmoud and Bruce to have beeo copied from, pre-
'l"ioualy eJ.iatiog, !15.
- - - - the, oftbe Egyptian templea, beheld 'nuder
the sun,' the ann being then aymboliaetl.u 'the lefty
orb ofluminona elftuence,' 3tt. ·
Digitized byGoogle
INDEX. 387
Hqlfp/tiel, a ecnlptured with, perhapa the
Cbawber of Imagery of ERktel, SS'7.
the, of the Buu)thtou l'ylinder, ae"e to con·
ny an ide.. uf the aea•on at •hich the coronation fe..
tiftl of }Ethiopia wu celebrated, 367.
Hill, Dr. Joll11, opinion of, aa to the aiguifieation of M...
IU'oth, 75, 76, 11olt.
couaidera Ceres to be repreaented by the
aigq fllltt, tilt,
--Dr. H. D., ufSt.Andrew·a,couceming tbe applica·
tion ofthe term 'myateries' to certain ancient ritea, t 90.
------ hia accountofthe doc:triue ofthe hieropllanta
of Elenais, t9S.
Bilu, Dr., many cylindera collected by, G.
Hipp«Ntt• recururu..uda attention to the beliacal riainc of
Sirioa and Arcturus, 10..
Hipporaldora, the device with which the shield of, waa em-
boued, 4tt.
Hillory, the advantagea wbic:h we .,_ over the an-
cio:nts, in the 1tndy of, v.
---- the ancient univeraal, •tatea a remarkable coin-
in the hiatory of Noah by Moaea, and in that of
01iria by Plutarch, llS.
- - - the sacred, of the Hebrews, cited in corrobora·
tion ofcertain and utronomic:al inference•
relatiYe to the Boughton l!?t.
Hod8•"• Rev. Mr., of Newc:utle, bia testimony of in fa·
\'uur of opinions liven Ia Ealey I., 19.
ll-, the e.arly superiority uf in the fine artl
affirmed by, as.
- aignifies that Greece - anpplied with personal
oruamentl from Pbamicia, 88.
--- mentioDI only une conatellated Bear, 108.
--- the origin of the cooatellatio01 not kuowa to, t09.
- makes arrowa the poetical symbol of the aolar
raya, 146.
Hoatrilt1, the, or Sabaan tribea of Yemen in Sontlaem
Arabia, bad regular political eooatitutiODI in timea of
remotest antiquity, S.W.
Hopt, Mr. TAnia, mentioned in reference to the coatame
of the Sabaan figures, 70.
- - - - - - reference to,on the garbofBCIOtea,tOG.
Hur.,...U., a acarabtl'us thought to indicate a conjuaetioa
o( the ann and moon, by, !56.
n-.Rev. Mr., an able COIWUeUtator ou tbe Sc:ripturea,
S17.
- - - - - error of, with to tbe Palma
the name AlaP.h, ibid.
Hor011t0pie aigueta, apecd'y eac:b, the aspecll onder which
ita poaaea-or waa born, Me, 4tf,
- - - - - - abewo to hue been a.ed by tbe Gre-
cian• and Romaoa, 48.
-------particular deecription of one ofthe an-
cient Grecian, 44-48.
of Greece and Cbaldea, the di&reaee
between, 49.
------- Sabean, uaigqed to tbe iafimtl by
astronomical prieata, 55.
-------- the eonteota ofoae of the Sabll!ao dia.
etllled,
- - - - - - the doctrinee on which they are found-
ed, and a particular eumioatioa of a apecimeo of one
of Saba!an orir;in, 146.
--------the great n11111ber and hish impol1llllee
of the Sabaan, accounted for, 19'-
(See Cyliader, G-. Sipd.)
Htii'U, or the peraonified vemal aeuoo, u cenerated by
the action of Oairi• on laia, 169.
· - wlay asaociated in the .lEthiopiau I'ODpa wilhBall-
ammon, tt9. ·
SA
Htii'U, why aarmonnted with a treaeent and ball, u de-
acribed by Mr. Waddington, ISO.
--- varioua repreaeatatioaa of, in a temple examined
by Meaara. Waddanston and Hanbury, !St.
-accompanied witlt a figure of Jupiter-ammon, ob-
ae"ed in a very ancient temple of Bacehua, viaited by
Mr. Waddinston, tM.
--- identified with the Grecian Apollo, by Herodotas,
ttole, !S4t.
HIIIIHuiU..II, the, a primiliYe s..b...ao c:onatellation, !66.
- - - - - - ideatitied with Bacl'haa, O.iria, Sabuina,
Noab, or Xixutbraa, and the well-known coastelladon
BCIOtea, ttG, t&S.
woralllt•ped throughout ES)>pt, and ape.
eilllly introduced into tbeir national creed, 167.
- - - - - - emblem• attached to the aatroaomieal
figure of, ibid.
- - - - - anppolt'd to have been the national si!PI
to Egypt, aa Succ:otb-Beaoth was to Babylon, Nerpl
to Cuab, Aabima to Hamath, &c., 170.
- - - - - though the figure hu been metamorphoa.
ed, the atara atill remain as they origiaally were uao-
ciated, 17<6.
- - - - - - the tweoty-aeven of, diac:onred by
the antbor, to aet 10 as to with the fourteen
portiooa into which Typboa ia fabled to han divided
Osiris, 179.
- - - - eoriooa myatic c:oincideaee diacoYered to
have -abaiated in the rioing ofthe H01baodmao and the
Goddeaa ofHaneat, 181,
-----evidence of the ideality of the deified,
with Noah, t8G.
- - - - - - an ioata111'e of a myatic aigq being milo
tllken for the caaae eiguified, t9S.
------theconcomitant noc:taroal alga ofchanges
In terrestriAl aatu...., of wbich the •au ia the phyaieal
eanae, 195.
- - - evidence of the identity of, with lhe
Bac:c:b01 of ·Greece and Rome,
(See AdoiiU, &tcltu, IJtiOlea, J-., NoM, Oliril, S..
baiu, &IWII, TA-, Xinllaru.)
Brllilea, the coiocidioJ of the Yemal equinox with the,
in the time ofJob, ss.
· --- penooified, repreaeotation ofthe, on a aem, 117.
Hrdt, Dr., eelllllred for a aort of preaamptioo too com·
moo, 9'1.
H!/dra, the, of the Southern Hemiaphere, the probable
Leviathan of Scripture, 5!.
--- in the latitude nf ldnmea, io the time ofJob, roae
heliaeally with the first atara ofLeo, with the inference
from this fact, 53.
H,U..., the of the conatellatio111ln the beat
edition of, copied from apnrioua delineatiou in the
'Syntagma' of Grotiua, 95. '
- - - the fable of Engonllin, as related by, 186.
- - - tile fable &om, Of BaecbDI, thirsty with hia tra•
Yell, led by tbe Ram to wbere there wu watrr,
aatroaomieally aolved, ts8, tS9.
HfP<>IIIeaU, coucernio1 the taliamaoic property imputed
to geDJt, 56.
I.
I-·commentariea of 8oame Jenyoa and R. P.lbipt,
&q. on the import of, !9'-
ltW.IrJ, the preanmed orilin of that denounced by Moaea,
S5, 11011, SG.
- - the Chaldeao, depreeated by the prophet Jere-
miah, sa.
- - - the chief lord of the SablNII, onpsated tbe
Grecian Jupiter and ApoUo, tS9.
Digitized byGoogle
388 INDEX.
ldoWry, the Anbiut, atated bJ Blllier to be older tJwa
the Deluge, 160.
- - - of the 8abea111, in what kind of adoration it
eapedally cooaiated, 181.
---'-- Sabt!Pan, kiaein1 the baod to the aun, and putlinr
a myltic branch to tbe ceremouiea of, 138.
- - - of Canaan, not anfficiently understood by the
tranalaton of the Bible, t68.
- - - of Manuaeb, in wbat it principally aeema to
han conaiated, 307.
- - - of Canaan, thoup forbiddt'D to be followed by
tbe laraelitee, yet Aabrea and Altars not among tbe pi'Oo
bibitiona ofMoaee, 318.
---- tbe aimple naing of Aabrea, not a more profane
apeciea of, tban eimply uaing globea, ibid.
---- Sabll!an, inquiry concernin1 the aatral aip of
tbe aulatitial featival of,
- - - of tbe laraelit•a, more rooted bJ their inter•
marrying witb tbe Sabll!aDI, srt.
ldoa, probability that Terab wu the maker of ancb u
Rachel purloined from ber fatlaer, 6.
- two sheep-beaded in an ..Ethiopiu temple Yiaited by
Mr. Waddington, !36.
-- meant, u Parkbunt thinkl, by the Hebrew word
Adru, 187.
(See Cyliftdlf'l, Gau, I-,n, HtlrtMOpil
wll, Stull, Sipt•.)
lillllfhMiiort and judgment, eft'orta of the, required iD Ar·
eheological punuita, 'fi.
r-talily of the soul, a doctrine perhaps uoknown to
the Sabr.ana, !98.
lfteTtd11lily of 110me on the opiniona ad't'llDced in FMay I.,
two for the, to.
lulriiiiUifl fur purpose• of divination, aupposed repreaen·
tation of, on a Sabean aignet, t9J.
------------- on Sabll!an aignet,
particular dt'&cription of, MS.
lllllrwlllntlt, utronomical, or Ashre•, many among the He-
brews and Sablllans,
- - - - - - - - ofl\lo•ea and Solomon, 3t7.
- - - - 6f the aa11etuary ; "·hat the cherubim with
111in11s prob11bly mE'ant among the, 3t5.
l'lllllflio, engravings, the peculiarity of, explained,
l11twpret11li.orl, scriptural, of a aubjeet on a Uabylouian
cylinder, 154.
J.U, a personification of terrene nature, u admitting of
fecundity, 1!6, 169.
--the temple of, inacription over tbe entrance to, 168.
-- eqttitoeatioua of Herodotua, cooeernittg the myste-
riea of, l!lt.
-- or nature, tbe allE-gory of the mourning of, duriur
the depth of wittter, 1!13.
-- and Horna, fable of, u related by Plutarch, 198.
--Temple of, at Dendera, Greeo-£cptian atyle of
art visible in the, !19.
- - - - - - description of, by Bet.oni, ibid.
----Denon, ffDie1 !to.
- - - - thought to bave been erected 10 the time
of the Ptulemiea, !47, !6!.
(See Fllbte, Ltrnut, Ttmpk.)
lsratlitu, propensities of, to persist iu tbe worahip of their
Sabean 69.
(!fee AbralurM, Htbrt11111 ldolalry,J11dd,Mun,
Ttf'llh.)
lzio11, thought by Jome to be repreaented by the conatel-
lated Eugonasin, 137.
J.
Jubloltlki, authority ot, concerning the five Coptic oamea
of Oairia, UO.
J--., Mr., Virgo colllidered to be a repreaentatiou of
Ceres, by, !01.
.Ta,_, estract from the F..mbuey to, con«rninr tha atti-
tude of the Taurna of, 60.
JtltfU, Souet, 1111110tation of, on the I -, aa written in
Esodua, ffDie, 19f,
Jtrft!W.1 aiJneta need in tbe time of, to ratify pnrchaaea
of JaDcl, 3!.
- - - the empbatieal waminr of, agaioat Cllaldean
idolatry, 38.
J-, St., tile opitrion of, u to thr. myatie word Allare,
oter-rnled by the apprehenaioua of bia brother Monb,
t1011, 286.
Jeuhtl, the forged letten of, to the elden,probably aigaed
with a royal aigntt, 34.
JuiJ, the author of the book of, atrongly niucea tlae mode
of Dliug eigneta, 11.
-- the advanced atate of utronomy in the age and
country of, and the forcible argument it aft"orda of dae
priority ofSaba'aD acience, 17.
-- the book of, thought to be tbe moat ancient writing
extant; and eti4ence from it of the aacred nature of
aignets, !8.
-- uplanation of the Hebrew word 7'111', u uaed by the
author of, with the •peeial application of it to the mode
of imprelling cyliDders, t9.
--the pledfe thrown down bJ, in proteatation of bia
iooocence, probably a mystic cylinder, 30.
- in cnrsing bit dey, conceived to allude utrologically
to bia horoacope and birth-day, 50.
- tbe cuatom of keeping birthday• by in the
time of, recorded in the book of, b!.
Dr., obaenea that incoasiatenciea ma1 each be
fouaded in truth, 1to.
J-, Sir Wm., and other hl!J•aatborities, believed the
mansion• of the moon, as deviled by tbe Arabians, to be
the moat ancient relic we bave ofastronomy, u,.
- - - - - - the OJ•ioion of, u to the high antiquity
of tbe lunar zodiac, how reconcileable with ita llrat
point coinciding, u stated, with the first &tar of Aria,
and at tb1: MIDI: time agreeing with the utronomy of
Jub, 71.
Joppc, a place of th11t marne in the Arabian peninsula,
connected with tbe •tory ofC11foliopeia, 371.
J•lqlllu, authority of, u to tbe elgnet of Pbaraob confer-
ring power on Jo&epb, 5.
- - - tbe evidence of, as to the meaninr of Jupiter-
ammon, !88.
- - - on the of the itlllrnment with aeten burners
detised by 11-Ioaes,
- - - tlae chronology of, makea tbe world mncb older
than tbe common date, •
.T01illlc, twelte •tones set up by, u a eign, on puainc
over Jordan, S.>.
---at Mount Ebal, inacribed on atones tbe law of
Jllllcli, tbe patriarch, eanied with biro a signet, 5, e.
--- tbe prob11ble origin of the Lion of, •nd device
upon the aigttet, 6t.
--- on bia way to a sheep-shearing, havlag with •im
bia ataft"and algnet, meets whh 1'auaar, 68.
Jui111 and Tremt:llius, quotation from the •eraioa of. the
Bible by, U.
J11piter, wby Minoa wu esteemed the aon of, fS,
- - place of the planet, and bow.denoted oo a Gre-
cian signet, 4.>.
--- the aiau or common aymbul, uaed to denote,
188.
- eupposed to bave beea te1111ed Mallll-tob by tbe
SabiUDI, t4t.
Digitized byGoogle
INDEX. 389
Jyiler, the hiKh nueratioa obtained by the plauet, amoag
atar-wonhippcno, 144.
- s.,ittariua the utrological mallliou of, and aua-
picioos aspect of a conjuoctiou of the planet with the
aua in that aigo, 146. .
- - penoni6ed, ar.cordinc to Treau.n, with ar-
rows in hia band, 147.
- - description of, aa penonified on a Sablean cylin·
der, 148.
- - and the sun, period of tbe synodic conjDDetion of,
thO.
- and the aun, aynebroaical rising of, in the ancient
•ernal aigo J\rif'a, and the memorable epoch to the
Sabaeaoa occasioned by the phenomenon, !40.
- periodical ff'volutiona of, compared to the reei-
nrocal motiooa oftbe hour and minute banda of a clock,
ibid.
Jllpittr-.tf-11, or AmmoDD, the Ball·ammon of Scrip-
ture, the utronomieal phenomena which gave birth to
the appellation of, tlt.
- - - - the remaioa of a temple dedicated to, in
Arabia, us.
the import of the appellation heretofore
miataken, mf'aning simply Sol ill Am•, 128.
- - - - - the famf'd Lybiau oracle of, u mentioD·
ed by Luciau, ibid.
------the connnioa ot Ba&l.ammon to, by
the Greeks,
- - - - - - deacriptioa of the aculpturea of, accord·
ing to W11ddingtou, 130,
- - - - - - variom temples conaecrated to, in Egypt,
!St.
- conjonetioa of Sol and the planet Jupiter
in Aries, taken as the more torrect oril*n of the deifi.
cation, !38.
- - - - - eomideratiooa u to the time whea tem.
plea were erected in honour of, ltS7-t4t.
J11pittr·Belu, evaaion or omiaaion of antiquarian writera
relative to, 140.
- - - - - - cotdlicting of Herodotus,
Pliny, and Diodorus, concerning, ibid. ,
men, ibid,
etymon aad aigni6catioa of the toCDO-
- - - - - application of the peraonification to the
planet Jupiter u the Grecian Lord of the Heaveu,
145.
K.
Kt1J1PG Dnacollil and Kochab about equi-diataot from the
Pole at the cooatruetion of the cireullf planiapheric
ceiling, broqht from Egypt to Paris, 150, t5t.
Ktfffltdy, Capt., learned Inquiries of, into the Peniau J>e.
168.
Ktrlllk<.tl, Dr., his scriptural diaaertatiou cited with re.
Jrllfd to the Tree of Life, !8!.
Knit, the Hebrew word, misapplied in Scripture to the
constellation Orion, !81.
Kt1111, the probable ateliar Leviathan of Scripture and of
the ancient sphere, &t.
--- the early atara of, rile beliacally in Arabia with
DeUa in Piacee, 5S.
Kil!ld, the Hebff'w word, &llely applied to Orion by the
Bibl&otraoalaton, ibid.
- - u Died by Job, ligaifiea the Pleiades, or popular.
Jr, the lle1'eD atara, St!.
H'U"cAtt", aiguifiea that the atara of' the Wain' were ofold
'the Car ofOairia,' tt!.
- - the Egyptian planiapherea by, conaidered to have
beeu compiled, 1!9.
Kit'cAw, the planiephere of, eoaaulted concerning the poa-
tttre of Caaaiopeta, SOL
testifies the excee4ingly remote period at which
the plaoeta had each ita penonified repre-
aenta.We, 142.
Krcigltt, Mr. R. P., concerning the original religion of
Greece, 45. .
------- thinks the original Tanrua to han been
a figure of the Urns, ur Wild Bull of India, '18.
-- mentions a Chinese temple, cooaecrat·
ed ·to the Horned BuU, and evinces the nry general
devotion paid to Tauric representationa, 80.
.,-.----..-- &say V, addreased to, 87.
. tbe fable ofGanymede, philoaophically
er.plaioed by, rcole, 187.
- - - - - - - baa concluded that atar-worahip pre.
ceded the wonhip of aymbols, 164.
- - - - - decidea, on the evidence ofVirgil, that
Bootes or Oairis holds the winnow u ao emblem uf bus-
beodry, 167.
- - - - - - on the period offorty days absence, or
departure of Osiris, tBS.
-----comment of, oo the great actuating
principle of the univene, termed in Scripture, I
Role,
a law of Lombardy, enacted in the
eighth century, to reatrain from dnotioo to myatic
treea, meotioued by, !91.
Kdab, et1mon of the word, and phyaical peculiarity of
the Alar at designates, 205.
- era of the polarity of, and ita feature in the Den-
dera zodiac, thO.
Korea. clause from, relative to the uae of the atan as
guidea by night, ftole, to&.
L
Yerbal, is veraatile, variable, and therefore of-
teo illuaive, while tlae language ofscalptore remaioa the
same as it ever waa, t64.
Ltd.ua or the leading topica of which the present
coune cooaaata, JtO. .
Lu, Mr., ae"ice atrorded to the anthor by, io tontri•·
iog and superioteodiog tbe mounting of a globe with
eircnmvolvinc poles, ao u to render it capable of aoJv.
proble011 ceoceroiug the autation of the eartln
uaa, 1'18.
LtrtiiiJ ofTheaeaa and Minos, tbe utrologieal import of
the 43.
- Venu ehanlin' her Amathuaiaoa into holla,ll-
luaion of the, to celf'atlll epoebu, St.
- - - the battle efJupiter and the Titaoa, an astrono-
mical contest, 45.
- - - the departure of Oairia to Penepllooe, a peri•
odical phenomenon ofthe tto.
- - - Iaia aod Oairia, lbeWD to oricioate in the coane
ofoature, Ul.
- Herculea' coateat with the Ligures, a aeuoaable
upeet of the laeavuly bodies, 136,
- - - Gaayme4e, explained by the ceaial onr8ow-
. iap of the Nile, Ml•, 187.
- - - Oaitia, ofthe conformity with that collecti011 of
atara auigoed to the HOI'baadman, tGS.
- - - OaiN, bia, and the philoaophical import
of the, 169.
- - - Ty_phon (the deatructin power) cattin1 to
piecea Oatria, aoalocena throughout to utroDomical
facta, 1'1t.
- - - the Ball of Myceriaaa, abewn to appertain to
utrology, IIlio lillie, tt7',
Digitized by Google
390 INDEX.
Lt,tfUJ o( the Ram leadins Baeeb111, thinty with tranJ.
liq, to where wu water, conformity of with the diar-
Dal rotation of the 1phere, !38.
. J upiter'a reluctance to approach Herculea, per-
fect accordaure of the, with the planetary phenomena,
139.
---- the Greelr.l, conr,.ming the conaigning of Culi-
opeia to the ct'leatial rt'sionR,
allnaion to 'IBrioua Grecian, with their utrologi-
Cill import, 43.
- - - tbeclauical, diveaud oftheir ambiguity, by aub-
mitting them to utrolosieal analogy, 49.
- - - of Chaldea, which might have aened to eluci-
date the subject of the Dt'lugl', deatroyed by the alawea
to Mohammedan rreeda, 154.
Ll Grad, concerning the name and dlliC'ent ofthe Queen
of Sheba, ffl.
I-wo, nae in the neipboorbood
of, al10 FrntUfieu, 81. '
- - - to future tranllen u to the further
Jyuabola ou nae at, illid.
lAo, the •day-apriug' of higheat aummer from, iD the daya
of Joh, J7.
-- and Aqoariu1, aupp011ed to be eaned in quadrature
witbTauru1,on the roloual vue at Lemi.uo iD Cyprua,81.
-- utrologically tPrmed the Manaiou of Sol,
--the relalive phenomena of the aign aud Shiua, u
they are posited in the l!:gyptian zodiacs, 151-154.
-- parti<'ular poaition of, wub reapect to other featlll'el
of the oblong aodiac, 157.
(!!lee Liora)
LmaiiiiiJI, tbe, of Job, aud other Scripture aathon,
tho•11ht to have been au aucient conatellation, 51.
---- (the Dragon, or the Great Whalf') the
conjuring up of, M .
Lill_ra, the ancient aymbol of, u posited on the Grecian
aagnet, 47.
Liclllftllteill, Babylonian aigneta, 10pposed to be amuleta
by, 58.
- - - - a aoppoaed Zol111ra, or Arabian Venu, from
a sem publiahed by, 3511, 8b9.
u-1. (See U..U...)
Liltftt, oue of the materiala uaed to write on in tl1e ea•lieat
qea, 3t. .
Lioa and Bull, head• of the, by wbich tlte featouu bead-
piece to Eeny I. ia held, 7.
--of Judah, to be the aodiaeal Lion, u often
found on Sabll'an gemA, 67.
I..Unu, deu ot; sealed np with the lr.ing of Babylou'uiguet
and with those ofhillorda, H.
------ sacred iRJport attached to snl'h
aealinga, 16.
(See
Loclcdt, Capt• ..ofbraMm, the c:ontemplation of certain
oriental bro11ght to England by, led the author
to proceed with tbeae reaeart'IJf'S, 1.
- - Eoaay 11., addreaaed to, 18.
Euay III., addreaaed to, 41.
Ehay IV., addreaaed to, 56.
----------- curioua cylinder brought by,
aud treated ofin Eoaay VI., JOl.
brouseTaurua bronght
by, a model of the Urus, 117.
------reference to a Bab)·loniau cy-
linder brought by, 1!17.
81111 on a coin of Seleucw;,
brought to England bl, 11ote, lSI.
Lorag, Dr., the nationa o the Zabii u alluded to by, and
their idolatriPa and anpf'ntitiona, 11ote, S!J,
- on the figurea of the couatellatiou.a iu the Syu-
tagou& of Grutius, 9._
LllfiK, Dr., omita in his diuertatiOD to give aay opinioM
on the globe, 99.
----- concerning the interpolation• of the aucieot
134.
- - - - on the original inducement and attempt to
c:omtellate the firmament, 164.
lArd, the appeannce of the, u read in Seripture, fre..
quently meau.atu-" JEHOVAH, 315•
Lllcia refP.n varioaa fabuloua demi-goda to their utrolo-
sil'BI oativitiea, 43, <69.
--- briefly delineatea the pro11reaa ofutrooomy, from
ita cradle throop ita early C'Ourae, 89.
--- nideuce of, concerning the Lybiao oracle of
Ammon, 1!8.
---. and nriona other cluaical nideucea atteat the
aourc:f! ofCbaldean oupentitiou, MSI.
L1111111' aod1ac. (See M..W.. ,qtlw AlfiOfl, Zodiae.)
M.
Earl of, Euay VI., addreued to the, 156.
Ma&robiu, the Jupiter of Heliupolil regarded by, u ideu-
til'al with the
- - - - the identification of &I and Jnpiter by, e:a-
mined .. to ita import, as.
---- detl'tiption of the aolar Deity of the Sabaana
by, !7ll.
- - - l'baracter of, u a acbolar aud author,
quoted concerning tbe law• of Moaea, 69.
Malcohlt, SirJolut, the Penian poem of Ferdoai, u quotf!d
by, 9.
Ma11ili.,, quoted aa to the benevolent iu6ueuce ucribed
to Jupiter and v..uua, 45.
- - - Sherhom'a nc•teo to ' tbe Sphere' of, malr.e Eu-
sonuio to be lxiou, U7.
------------------ commend-
ed aa .
.IJ/prioJu ot the Moon, by aome thought to be the oldeat
part ofastrouomy, 74.
-- the fint of the, called Al-slteratao,
and anppoeed to ba•e l'ommenced with the chief atar
of Ari•a, 76.
------ an anomaly conl'eminc the hi!lh an-
tiquity and the l'ropoaed plar.e of ita fi111t point, re.
COnl'iled, 77,
(See MfiUIII·otla, M-, ZIHIUK L1111cr.)
dialogue with the, ou tbe nature aud aigni6-
<'atiou of Aohrea, Rfter the manner of FonteuPIIe, Y9._
Ma•rtdrtl, a ator1 hom, relative to a place ealled B...iitea-
hellah, lSI.
Mnrict, the Rev. Mr., the lunar aodiac thought to be the
oldest piece of astronomy extant by, 7...
Mczal·tob, the Cbaldeau name of tbe ph&oet Ju-
piter, 11ott, 14!.
MGU4lotll, bow compouuded, and literal aiguification of
the word, IIQit, ibid.
- - - - the aatronomicalapplieatioo may kave been to
the lun11r zodiac,
- - - - the Aahr•• of the Hebrew• probably modele for
tl'presenting 1111d effecting the problema relative to, 3t8.
- - - - may ha'e been the abetrdc:t repreaeutatiYe
oymbols uf 1he &adial'al•if(n5, 834.
Mauaroth, import of, accordiutt to Dr. John Hill, 75.
-- -- in ita eeaaon, expoaition of the phrue, by the
oame author, 76.
a<'cording to the interpretation
of Sir W. Drummond, rtole, ibid.
Sabzan symbol by which it ia
auppoaed to be !11.
(See /.vaar Zndaac, Mt11111ic Cycle, M-.)
Jewillh aorceren, alluded to iu the Scrip-
turee, 188.
Digitized byGoogle
INDEX. 391
Mtdu and PeniaDI, the application of the aeala of the,
an irret'el'lible act, tt.
M,l4..,.. illatructed in the myateriea of Baccllaa by the
Egyptiaaa, '""'· 161.
Mtli:iM, mystic: eipiflcation of the word, u tranalated
from Job by Dr. Good, 50.
my•tic •h:uificatioo of, u traaalated from Job
by Dr. Oootl, ibid.
Mtrchanll, .£tbiopian, the tint that carried on a distant
traffic, 850.
Mtridia, the Sothic, aud Pole of the Equator of the cir-
cular at Dendera by the author, and
the date of the ceiliog ioferred, t51.
Mttoxie CJcle, auppOM'd to ban been andentood in Chal-
dea by the term &tror, 75.
known probably throughout Arabia ud
Egypt in the tintal!ea, 197.
thought by Coetard to be the Plinian pe-
riod, ibid.
------ancient myllic symbol by which ita com-
mencement was aiguified, !Ill.
M'!Jtr, Mr., concerniog the subltance with which the
pat Cyprian vue ia formed, 81.
Jlidaelil on the severity of the Moaaic Jawe apiaat aelf.
intereated incbantera, 187.
- - - nideof'e of, u to tbe cheata carried on by the
aacerdotal magiciana, 188.
---- conceraiog the homage paid to aabordioate
deitiea, !98.
----on the distinction betwet>n tlte Hebrew pro-
phet• and idolatrous divint>n, SIS.
- - - ahewa that Moal!l wu unacquainted with the
true lime ofa aolar year, Sl4.
the lofty astronomical obaervatoriea ofthe Cbal-
deaoaao called, 1!4.
Millill, error of, in conceiving the Sabean e:gneta to be
amulets, 58.
MillUiftoa, Proft>aaor, commanic:aliou from, 177.
MiUoa, extract rrom, concerning auppoaed apiritaal agenta
termed watchera, M.
--- oo the influence of the heliacal riainga and aettiuga
of the 1 tara, 1OS.
--- the 11enial influence of the beliac:al riling of Plei'-
adea allutled to by, 115.
--- allusion of, to a Lapland cnatom of bowling to
re..cue the rclipaed moon, 1tS.
---- expresaiou of, analogona to the emblematic wiag.
ed IUD, 1176.
--- addreuea the heavenly hierarchy as the ' progeny
of light,' tBO.
--- quotation from, by which the attal"k of the o•er-
acrupuloua ia repul•ed by anticipation, !184.
- - description of the confemng on the aell'eral orbs
their utrological efl"ecta, by MS.
--- alluaion of, to tbe diJI'uaion of Sabean odoan by
tl1e oorth-eaat wind, S56.
MM, tbe fable intimate• the early nae of boi'OICopic
aignt"ts, t7.
MUtolnri frequeotly found ac:ulptnred on antique cylin-
den, 7S.
Mira&ll, a alar of the third magnitnde iu Boiitea, the phe-
nomena of, allacletl to, and 'IIIOte, 180.
Millara, or the Sniunr, one of tbe title& of dignity given
to the IDU by the Sabll!llDI, t70.
Jloia..-4, adhertonce to the creed of, calculated to em-
burua Sabaean inquiries, ix.
Meo\aaMtdu•,batred of the,to the objecta of Salntan WOI'·
ship, s.i.
- - - - - politiCRl object of the, ill the adoption of
their crcaceut ensign, 57.
M-.lfltCLJru, the traditional recorda of the early Olal-
dean history destroyed by the, 154.
- - - - - Sabeiam ia Arabia nearly atlngaisbed by
the tyranny ofthe, 178.
Mokcla, a title of dignity git'en by the aac:ieot Sableanl to
the IUD, !70.
M••cl4, opinion of, that Arabia waa the real parent of
Science, 354.
aatronomic:al of the Upper Nile, prove ./Ethi-
opia to have been the tonrce of Egyptian aeience, and
probably of Chaldean, tt4.
Moal-Ebal, law of Moaea iiiiCribed on atones by Joshua
at, S6•
.11-, the monthly path of, hieroclyphic:ally repreaented
by a dragon, 48, 7!, 191.
--- particular aspect of the, on the Grecian boi'OICOpie
aigoet, 48.
--- the crtoacent, origin of ita adoption aa the eaaip
of the Tnrka, 57.
--- dl!seription of the personification ofthe, a appear-
ing on a 01aldean 70.
--- the, various appellatioaa unller which it hu been
deified in different couotriea, ibid.
--- the mansions ioto which the orbit of
the, wu anciently dit'ided, thoapt to be the oldest
part ofutronomy extant, 74..
--- the tint man"iou of the, called AJ.alteratln consi-
dered to have rommencetl with a circle pauing through
the chief star of Aries, 76.
---the tint oew, of the year, aaloted by relisioaa fes-
tivals throughout the E•at, 78.
___....__ the, jointly worahipped with the &an a a female,
which mythologinll)' peraouified material aatnre, 196.
--lint new, with the sun in A•ies, a phenomenon
once in every nineteen yean, thought to bat'e
been termed in Job, MtiUilrotla ill II• - , tlt.
--- fint new, in Taurus, the popular new year'a day
in Virgil's time, !!6.
--- the creac:rnt, ac:nlptnred ou cylinden, near the
winged orb, import of, S1S.
(See Edipaa, r.- Zedi«, Mauimu of
tlu Mon. MII%UII'OIIt, Metoxie C,cle, Spbot.)
Mortl«.i, commiaaion<'d by being invested with the royal
aeal to esecute the decree of king Abasaeraa, t6.
Mortli NftiOCIWrt, tlte, of Maimouidea, eaya, 'To reetrain
the laraeliteo from the more ancient Sabean worahip,
God cauued Moaea to pnbliab lawa,' 69.
Most•, engraved signet. ahewn to have been iD aae in the
time of, S, 6.
--- anppr&aed tbe wearing of signeta on aceooat of
their ccnmexiou witb Sabll!an aaperatition, :JS,
--- tht' apecial interdiction or, whereby graven images,
.\c. were eondemoed, j1S.
--- the true time of a aolar )'ear nnknon·n to, a et'iDc•
ed by Michaelia, Slo&.
--- conaiderations with retpec:t to the instrument or
apparatus which wall required by the oncle of Sinai to
be made by, translated a c:andleatick, St1.
--- ofCborene, of, concerning the powerful
Sablean nations of remotest antiqnity, 1t•.
!tlu111l, tile aile ofancieut Ninevt:h, occupied by the pre-
sent city of, 6.
M111tt1a, British, cuutaioa aevt'ral apecimeu of Sableaa
acnlpture, t.
------- a colotaal ran•'• bead ia the, represented
ia Head.piece to Essay VII., YSI.
------- a ac:arabll!na in tbe, havin& the of
Cuaiopeia ac:ulptured on ita nuder aorface, soo.
atory of the my»tic bull aa git'eu by Herodo-
tna, su.
oigitiz d byGoogle
392 INDEX.
11,_.,pictue ia·lhaAIIIeDiala Temple of'l'beleul, oa
the ofMU.O.' na,. ".
El......,IDcl other aacieot, iD what they
probably collliated, 188. .
- - - - -....---··coiiiiDeDtary oa, by the teamed
T. Taylor, 189.
--------10 called fiom their beiDr COD-
cealed from the UDioitlated, 190.
--------ba•e probably beaD the reuoa
of10 little ofaacieat utroaomy hariDf beeD diYillpd,
191.
- - - - J'.c1ptiu, studied raerYe of Herocleta
the, 19!•
.II,.....,the Hebrew word .AI1 a:ceediapy replete
with, !3.
lltiiCic .,..,eel Wutratioaa of, iD Jla.d.pieee to
&.yll., 18.
- - the lleaYOM are eompOied of, 31.
N.
NckaAi-Ruh&a, opinioaa with nprd to the
IDODDIDCDta of, 167.
- - - - - characterof theIJIIlbolical wiaged figures
at, and at Penepolil, 168.
NfllltdG, the re-diiOofti'J of the·ueient city of, by Mean.
Waddington and HaDboty, 114.
- te.piH at, ud the tealptared IDOD1Imeata they
contain, !31-!37.
Naliou, the priority of, better determined by their Yea-
IC:ieace and art than by their biatorical pret-
110111, 87.
ofMiooar contained probably OD hisaipet, ftich
he &brew into tbe sea, 11.
- - - of an iodiridal, u c:ootained iD bie algnet,
eetHmed amoq the Sabeaal with that homage wbic:b
a pioat CatheliC aanifeata for a p!ltron ll&int, .u.
- - - ofa mao'a life and death ,Predict•
ed by the Egyptiam and poets of Greece, by bu, 49.
- - - of tbe Sbepberdea iD the Song ofSolomoa, in-
ferred to have been under tbe lufhaeoce ofBall4111oaon,
or Solin Ariea, 85.
(•aMg it to have belooacd to an iodiridaal)
cootaioed iD ENay IV., briefly esplaioed, 86.
- - - coataiaed iD a aignet, and atate of tbe beaftDI
at the time of c:uting, 146.
Nllliali4ia of Hereea, u tbey fell onder the aeveral pia-
nell, occ:uioaed each to be feigned the IOD or oftipring
of bia orb, 4.'1.
- - - tbe acieoce of, held io bigb eateem In the age
aDd eoontry ofJob, 51.
---- Cbaldeao and Egyptian mode of cuting, 58.
- - - cut, and boroacopic airneta uaigaed to iodiri·
daala by a regularly initiated Sabaeao prieathood, 55.
(See Attrolon, Sipdt,)
NtlaerrricA recorda a covenant, in wbicb the aigoatare of
aamea u well as aeala were med, 84.
N...,n., tbat annual featinl of tbe Grew, held io ho-
nour of the fint new moon of the year, '16.
Ntpt-, a conatellatioo eo named, inferred to have been
among the uteritme of the Cretan utrooomen, 4S.
Nlrpl, a cooatellatioo or atar, regarded u a tutelary di-
vinity by the Coabitea, 170. .
NfiiiJift, Bp., coocemiog the aceptral rod or atal'by which
the tribe ofJadab wu diltiDgniahed, 66.
N..,..,.Featitall, of Babylon, Canaan, Judea, Egypt,
Penia, Greece, had all a common oripo, '18.
Nt.wlt, eop-a•ed gema foaod at the 11te of tbe ancient
city of, n.
NoM, Mr. Jacob Bryant'• roiDUitic storiea of emblema of
the ark and penon of, 73.
N.O, or Xintltna, ldentifted with o.iria, .Woait, Bac-
cbaa, Bootea, 169.
-- computation M to the time wbeo this patriarch wu
fint eooatellated, t84.
- peculiar aoalou between the phenomena of the
atan of BoOtea and the historical particulan of the
Delage, 186. .
(See Adoltit, Hubad_,., Oriril, S.loui.,, n-,
..., olltr...,. 111 tcill #¥fond aldoUtcd 'o lltae.)
Noblt, Mr., extract from bit tramlatioo ofAratns,relatiYe
to the Bean, Boitea, and Arcturm, 108.
N.we, M., cooceroing the date ofthe Famete 1lobe, 99.
N-, tbe Peniao, or featinl of the fint new mOOD of
the year, '18.
- - - - - mystic ceremODiea iD hoaour of
·agricultare, 111.
- - - - - - - - aymllol of tbe, u dilc:oYered a-
moag the -.eient nptorea at Nabhi-Roatum, 189.
o.
O..U, the great, military pilgrimage of Ale:uoder to the
Temple of Jupiter-on at, tt8.
Oallt, probable radix and myatic import of the word,
30.
Qldtdiorll, probable, to 10me coocluiooa of the author
uawerecl by anticipation, 171.
O«idtww, and O«ido, their common cleriYation from the
Hebrew root, 183.
OpillioJa of tbe aatbor with respect to the appropriation
of three lOfts ofaigoeta diltiopilbed by the aatareaod
. quality of their eontents, 55.
Or6, the winged of the Syrian cylinder, with a radiation
dowo-rda, tM.
- a wiqed, inferred to be an emblem of the IUD at
Ilia oorthem aolatitial meridian, 870.
OrVal, ( Aurient), from the Hebrew radix lipt or
fire, 183, ftllh, 353.
on.., with the Sun, Moon, and Pleladee, embluoaed oa
Achilln' thield, ••·
- - and the Dog aatrolosft"ally alluded to by Heaiod,
though not
--•opposed tobaveorigioally repre.ented Nimrod,141.
- - iojudieioualy introduced in the Eaglilb truulatioa
of the Bible, t67. ·
0rp1tat aod Job, a aimilar reference to aigoeta iD the writ.
tnga of, 16.
Orpi&K HJIIIo to Apollo, allmion to a aeaJ io, u traoalated
by Dr. Dodd, Wid. i?'.
-----Jon, Juno, and PaJ1u, each addreaaed iD
ao utrological strain io, 4,5,
Ornrio, or planetariama, tboogbt to haYe been cooatnact.
ed by Moaea and Solomon, 3t1.
Oairif, identity of with Noall, Bac:chaa, Iawara, 'J'bam.
mua, Satum1 Adonis, Janna, Bootea, 111.
- featitall of diaappearaoce, aearcb, and reiUICita-
tion of, related by Dr. Pritcbard, 11•.
- - argameata to lhew the error ofthoae who ideatiiJ
Oairia with the aan, uo.
- aod tbe clueical writera iporut of the caoae
which gave rue to their legend of, ttl.
- the car of, or ark of, and coiocideace of Ita riliD1
over Ararat u aeeo from Chaldea, 113.
--ldeatified by Volaey with Adam, BoOtea, Noah,
Saturn, Xixuthrm, Janm, tt•.
- erideocea of identity of, with tbe ae•eral beroes
and demigoda, 116-130.
- rea10m wby aome anthon may haft eoofoaaded
the IUD with, 158-166.
- why and idoliled with 10 mueh zeal amoDg
the Egypuaoa, 16'1.
Digitized byGoogle
INDEX. 393
OliN, the ritel ot; introdoeecl iofe J:s1pt from Arabiu
.£daiopia 168. .
- - in ihe bleudiag of S.bleiam with be·
came the tutelary deity of EcYpt, 170.
- - probably the establiabed nocturnal aip, u the IUD
wu the cliarnal, 111.
- - the cutting to pieces of, by Typhon, amply ex-
plained, 171-179.
- arpmeota concerning aome appareDt
in the exit of the atara of, t8S.
- - the apparent departure of the atan, froa their
being onrpowel'f'd with the solar light, coDiideredaod
lamented aa the death of, 18S.
- the time of moaroing for, regulated by the ti8e
the atan of, eontioaed immened in the beams or the
aun, uu.
- - the moderm led to ronfound, with the aao, &om
the error of Diudoraa, 196.
- - eumination of the import ofthe word Smlpia,ap-
plied u a name to, ibid.
- - tntimony of Eaaebiua aa to the identity of, with
Bootes, mentioned, 101.
- the identity of with Ba«haa referred to with re-
gard to &11 E!fyptiaa temple, 135.
- or the eatabli1hed aign by wbicla the pal"
poeea of a calendar were served ; and the consequent
place of, in the recesaea of Egyptian lempira, 311.
(See Ad011il. B••«ltiLI, Boiilr1, J..u, N011/t, Oliril,
Sabaziu, T4a-n, &111nt, Xi.nliru.)
OtAotla, Athoth, or 'fhoth, the Egyptian god of licaa,
myatic import of tile word, 31.
o.rill, an H..brew word uaed by Daniel, aignifyiag ub
tial-'c!w., M.
O..ky, Sir II •·, authority of, concerning tbe BIIBiben
of aigaeta atill found, 6.
- - - - - - ac-lmowledgment from, eoneeroio« the
author's archEological diacowerics, 19.
------j11aper-rylinder presented to, by Capt.
Lockett, copied in litle-p&l(e• M.
- - - - - - brooae bull praeoted to, by Capt.
Lockett, 78.
concerning the wonhip of the Median
kinga, qaotea Briuon, Me, t1t.
- - - - - - proposed reading of a clause iD the
paalma by, !IOU, 178.
Otlid, the Futi of, rit841 coneenriag the coutellating·of
Bootea and tbe Bear, 109.
P.
Polllu, empbatitallly. addreaRd iD the Orphic Hymn u
IM 1tar1, 46.
Pal,._,.IPICM,, or Aahre-braaebes fonDd in Sa·
blean sculptures, !SS.
- tl'ef'f, the mystic, of the Hebre-, probably derind
from Sabll!au originalt, !81.
aud cbernbim, as drlnibed in the Vision of
Ezekiel, tbe probable utronomical meaaing of, :SIS.
(See AlAn, CAmilli-, &tlcid, Tru.}
Pa,ldeatlfied with Apollo and the lllD, with an apoatro-
phe to, '1:17.
P.W, remoftl of the eircalu eeiUng or the Temple or
Iaia from E«Jpt to,
tbe Rev. Mr., concerning the import of the
Hebrew wewela SMa and Atit, tS.
- - - - - - - - - the interpretation of a puaage
in Job relatiYe to aigneta, by, !8.
- - - - - - - - - ebe"' linea to have beers one
of the earUeat aobatallftS writteo oa, St.
- - - - - - - - - authority of, u to the claaae,
' Let them be for ligna and foueaaona,'
P.,.,, theltn. llr., eollft..... 11M 11111o'-W. ,tOt
or ataff, u an ensign of antbaritJ, bJ W 1-litea,
.•.,,, 66.
---------concerning tlle fipre of the
idol, Aateratb-K.areaim, fl. . .. .
- - - - - - - - the Orphic H)'DIIl 1o Preto«o-
·u truaalated IJy, 4fuoe.d • .ie...--.c.'tb& er
Sabll!au symbol of the winged orb, !77.
- - - opioioa of the lipificatioa of
the Hebrew word Alhrt, by, !87.
f'OD«iftl the Hebrew weN
Bttlt. to imply canopies for inaegea, aott, 309.
- - - - - - - - - illterpretatioa of tile word R-.
- · by, 834. .
SIJeuieW ef,eabluoaecl wida a apllia, "'·
PGIIlrt, a copy of tbe Faroese Atlu by, referred to bJ
c-t T•loey, 9t. ·
Pa-w, atory of Minoa and Tbeaeaa from, and a pic-
.; nnct .t.dleua oo the aaJiect, 1'1, ""'-
---- qaoted bJ Sir R. Porter ronc:erniltg al)'lllbol
ueed in the Greek proee.iou, 383.
Ptlalfiaa, the, 1IDIIIIipped tbe gocle illdilnimiDately u
Dilpom'l, 4At.
Mr. Gnaft'illf, the mdiaeal Vqo to repre-
aent Ceres, tot.
Pniod elapsed aince Ariea wu the seat of the wrna1 equi-
nox, U6.
- of the synodic revolutiooa of the pluet Japiter
Ud tl1e IUD, 1411,
- - tbe aothic, fint meridian of, diaconred to be .,._
bolieally repreaeated 011 the Dendera .odiac,
(See ColllplllatiOII, C,dt, M--eA,
PN6laa.)
PtNtpOU., engraved gema found at, yi.
Pti'WtpolUaa amaleta, a prenilins notiOD that the S.b...
aigneta are, t, 56.
Ptnic, throughout the nat empire of, the royal will wu
iaaaed by sealing, t6.
- cylinden worn in, and eateemed to poeeeee 81110·
letic rirtaea, 57.
- clay menriooed by Ferdoli atheaealiogaabatuee
ot; 63. ·
- - the Noaraase of, time of celebrating fint new
moon of the year, 78.
- agricaltaral ceremoniea ofa mylticlldlld practiled
in, 1!1.
- wiaged orba or diaca found in the mo-
nawents of, !66.
- - the aolar deity of, aometimea ecalptnred with a
belt or zone, !69.
Ptftia11 Darin, date of the appearance of the, 150.
- - abewn not to be of the venerable aoti-
qaity ucribed to it, !68.
(See Ftnlt¥i, Neblti-Rwllcaa, N-.)
Phal& festival, the utronomical pbenomeaoe to which it
ia thought to refer, 18t.
P,__., by tbe royalaignet of, Joeepb wu iastalled with
power onr Egypt, 5.
a tropical iaatrament aaid to have been ll8t up
by, ID 8cy1111, 3SI,
Plaiio writes that Terab, the father of Abrabatn, wu a
maker ofgranD 1....,aok, 6.
PIUlo-B,Wiu, the tranalatorofSanchonlathoo'a
Cosmogony, 1!5. ·
..,..,.., the cnlcellt a l)'lllbol aaend to the deity Alte-
rath or Astarte, of, !11. ·
---- celebrated·for ellliDale in the fine arta prmoua
to the Trojan war, 83.
- - - Greece aapplied widl penooal 01'118111enta ,..._,
in the earlieat tlme., 88.
Digitized byGoogle
394 INDEX.
Pllftidc, the Hlllbudmm.deifJ of, ealled ia the Greek
of Philo, Acrotu, tt5.
- - - aamptuou Temple dedieated to Hertulu at
"'l}re, ill, 158.
- - - the myateriu of Oairia iatroduced from, iDto
Greeee, 161, 169.
- - the myateriu of Eleaeia, Samothraee, &e. pro-
bably borrowed from, 188.
- - - anc:ieat eoiDI of, which coataio a ball ia the at·
titude of buttiq, Ht.
---- Ariu hoaoured ia, when it became tbe aeat of
the eqoiDoc:tial aun, tl9.
- - - the obUqoity of the sodiae leanat by Aaufmao.
der1from, SH.
mytboloiJ of Sanebonlathoo CODce1'lliDa the
deity Aatarte, ft.
the celebrated Temple of Veaaaat Amatbu
iD Crproa, bailt by, at.
- - - the, migrated ori&iJially iDto CcaJo..Syria from
Arabia Felix, S5t.
(See CIIMita, s.Ncu, s,N.)
PU«t, the ree-ion of the eqoiaoctial poiDt throap the
ligu, '19.
- - Auatralil, omitted in the FuueaiaD globe, tOO.
- - why the diae aDd ereaceat ia never fouod conft.
pred with, oa gema, ttS.
PfatU, propriety of the term aeceaaion, • applied by
Bate to the 1ppulaea ofthe, St.
- - pe11011ifiration of eertaia of the, oo the Gredaa
horoaeopie pm, 415.
PlaUpo\aw of Ptolemy, with an opiDioo u to their po
nuiuenua, 96.
- - - Kircher aappoaed to be a compilation from
variooa authorities, tSO, ·
----- the eirealar ceiling from Dendera, eumioe-
tion of, t.S.
Plri«dtt, the, lo their taro became honoured u leaden of
the veroal aeaaon, '1'1.
------ at the fint emerceoee of, from tbe aolar
_ beams, the annual Sab..an featinla began, ltf.
- - - - - eitoation of the colore when they were
eateemed le1deraofthe Sabaean 115.
heliac:al risiDJ of the, finely alluded to by
Milton, ibid.
- - alloaioo to iD a puaage
from Cooke's Heaiod, MS.
- - - - - appearance of, oo aoc:ient SJrian horoeco-
plc gem, S60, Stit.
on the horoseopic gem radiate towards the
face of Cuaiopeia, S6S.
Pftllerd, evidence of, u to tbe prieata aealiog the bout
before offering it, 11-'t, 6t.
- - - the author avails himaelfof an apology of, con-
cerning the difficulty ofhia tuk, tOO.
---- inferred to have been wholly unacquainted with
the oae of a celeatial globe, 111.
---- io diaeoaaiog the fable of Oeiria and Ilia, lbewa
himaelf aaacqaainted with the pheaomeoe of the eoa-
atellltiona, Gllo IIOlt, 1'13.
- - - mythologic:ally deaeribu the atory of Ilia and
Horoa, 198.
Pococb'a • Hiatoria Arabam,' f'rapleata ofancient writera
collected io, 114.
PoditGJ and aettiDp of the stan, eertaiD mutual
atpecta which they were oble"ed to ban with the aaa
u they rose and aet ; and which are thoa termed, be-
c:aue Homer, Huiod, and other Greek poeta firat de-
ecribe them, tot.
p.,.u, the ancleat cluaic, according to Speoee, bnt very
ill undentood withoat a knowledge ofutroaomy, 91.
Pelta, the motion of, deaeribed, by wbicb the Eqaatorial
Pole ia Cll'ried round that of the Ecliptic oa a radioa of
tSi depeea io a period of t5,900 Jean, to7.
Pole·lltlr, tbt, not pennaaeatly stationed at the pole
of the Equator, 1'1'1.
PolHI-, an account of the eocceaeioa of the, from the
remoteat time,
a globe fi>r eolvinc problema relative to tbe
motiona ofthe, mounted for the 111thor uuder the direc-
tion of Mr. Lee, of the Royal Society, 178.
Polptdia, remarks of the author of the, oa the falee cba•
racter given to the ftprea of the eoostellationa on mo·
dero globea, 9S. ·
Pope, citation from, oa the diatinctioo that ought to be
made between the terma aigila and taUamaae, 60.
Pmtr, Sir R. K., certaio Penian hieroglyphica ably de-
liaeated by, t67.
- Mila, Interpretation of a boroec:opic BabylOiliaa
aipet supplied by, t89.
the planetarium of, from the confined atate of
utronomical ac:ience ia that age, spoken of enD by
Cicero u a wonderful eurioaity, 11011, 1'1t.
• a eappoaed improvement
of the Aabre and Helepb.Sidera, SSt.
_,.._.. of the Eqainoxea, the raoae of the pbeaomeooo
of the, deac:ribed, to'l.
- - - - - - - - - the centary.haod of the
great dial of Time, by wbic:b the moat diatant ueata
are chronolop('l!ly poioted to witb great fidelity, US.
Prtriou ttoaea, for the breut-plate of the hiltb-1,1rieat, or·
dered to be graven like • the engrariag ofa a.pet,' •·
Pridlcrd, Dr., opioion of, on the symbol ia the baud of
the .conatellated Huebaodman, IIOlt, 101.
- - - - - the Fable of Iaia and Oairil, u recooated
by, tbe reader referred to, ta.
- - - reference to, the mytbolopeal
atteodanta of Bacchus, ttT. .
- - - - - notea, that the oemea of the Egyptian dei-
tiea were from a dialect grown obaolete wbeo the clu-
aic:al anthon wrote, 128.
- - - - obeenea that the title Zeoa ia aometimea
applied to the god of the aolar orb, 1ff.
account of the aolllr deity of the Sabltana,
• traoalated from Murobina, by, t7t.
PridtGIIZ, Dean, oa a paaaa2e of Maimoaidea, relative to
the extended greatDeu ofthe Sabaeaa oationa ia remote
11ote, 69•
.Probleln, utrological, in e11plaaatioo of the featorea ofthe
Grecian borcncopic signet, •5.
- - - explanatory of the conjoriq op of Leriathaa
according to Job, 5S.
---- utrological, ia elucidation of the Sabaeaa bo-
roacopic aigaet, 105.
- - - utronomieal, for ucertaioiag a reiiiUkable per-
sonification on a gem, 1+8.
---- a aiderial, relatiYe to the Fable of Oairia cot to
1•ieeea bJ Typhon, 1'19.
- - - u to the eoincideot riaiq the Hoabaadman
aad Vireo, and the myatic application of the upect to
boabandry, 1111.
- - - utrouomieal, ou the heliac:al aettiag of Baecbna
(the Hoabandman) anti Vugo (the GoddeaaofHaneat),
tot.
---for aol•ing the utrooomical import ofthe Fable
of the Ram leading thiraty Baeehoa to a plaeeofwater,
ISS.
---utrouomic:al for ucertaioiag the aotbic meri-
dian, and equatorial pole ofthe Dendera IOdiac, tbt.
- - - - - -·
- - conceroiag the conatrortioa ofthe
aodiac ofDeadera, !50.
Digitized byGoogle
INDEX. 396
ProNaa, atronomiftl, the mataaJ rhine of
Aries aud C'.auiopeia, M6.
for aettlilll the time of the year
for eelebratinc the iuaopratloo of Cuaiopeia,
Prwlu, pu111e from, eoncefllioR the .Uionary appear·
. aoces of the celestialf e:abibited in the myatic aceoea
of Eteoaia, &e., 189.
Prfpltdk aoperiority of the, t4t.
Phlftty, monocram or, met with by Dr. Clarke durinc bia
tra•el.t, •·
---- obaenationa on the plaoilpberea at present a·
tallt, wbicb are ueribed to, 96. .
- - - the Jl'aroeae Atlu ueribed by
Volney to a period prior to, 99.
---the fiprea of the eoutelllticMJa altered by, tM.
---the fint, the erection ofthe Temple ofDeoclera
imputed to blBelzoui, tl9.
- - - the I or Ill., tbe author t-oneeivea the aaid
Temple to ban been founded hy, ..tt, iiid.
Q,
Qllialilia aya it ia neceaary to atudy utrooomy to aDo
dentaod the worka ofthe Poeta, 93.
R.
Rat, the, eucceeded the Bull forty-two eeatarlea aco u
the leader of the year, 85.
- - - ficnrea of, aormoouted with the diae aod crea-
cent, like the more ancient Turie eenlpturea, 115.
on the Sareopbapa of Alesalider, c:rowued
with the aobu' emblem, the era of whicb ia de6Ded,
Ill.
- - - lllfi'CII of the Eqaioos iuto, caoaed a ..Utable
chaDp iu the illllf!es and ritea of the Sableaoa, tf8.
- - - became honoured in enry country that did not
diauow the retreat of the Eqaioox frOm the Ball,
tt9.
- - - am0111 tile eenlptarea of'l'bebea aod Eaa4, ISO.
---coa-l bad of, in Britieb Maaeom, ao en-
"''" repreaeatatioo of wbids ia ai•ea, ibill.
- - - oo the altar-piece ofa temple of J upiter-ammoo
at Napata, Ul. ·
---leaend • to the orlcln of cbe lip of the, 138•
..---leada Baecbut throop the alpt to where water
ia, the f11ble explaiued, ibid.
- - - Jupiter repreaeuted iD theatatues ofE,ypt with
the head of, U9.
4• ...._,aod ram-beaded deities folllld iD the templea
of.Eaof, U6.
- - - - 6prea, IUJ'IDOIIIIted with tbe creacat aod
orb, frequent io tbe templea of the Upper Nile, tte.
- - - boiii&D fiprea; 10rmouuted by the c:reaeeat
udorb, uo.
-- ltelldtd apbiosee ia the templee of African .£thiopia,
ibid.
-s-•, B,.,t the Lybiaa oracle poartrayed with a, rta. .
- beaCII ofthe Deodera .udiK, delc:riptioo of, •45.
(See .frill.)
s., the apecial DUDe of the ttar Bdc of BoOtn, u
called by the Arabiana, 181.
Iicqe, Mr., mlatake of, COIICeflliDa tbe tubataoce of cer-
tBill cylladen, t.
- - the ealled amulet• by, Ia hia 'Cata-
lope t, 58.
- - - the larp alaoeta, termed black bualt, by, 64.
- - the Abject of a pm miaioterpreted by, 190.
.RAuadea, a MDtimeDt of the utroaomer. io, adY&DCed by
the author, 91.
BtpJu, the politioa fl the ttar, at the place aod time u
DOted OD die 8yriaD pm, 368.
Rtillu, himatlf Ull&ble to aadentaod a pauap
iu Job alluain to aeallog, u.
that of the foaoded oa the oblernd
phenomena of the he...-, 139.
Upt required bebiud the Yeil of, SJ8.
RtU.,W., tbe utrologieal, ofthe ancient uti thOH
of Greece contruted, 49.
RtMpAa, the atar of larael, probable faith oftbe Hebrew•
ia, u the arbiter ofdestiny, 68.
the, the auppoaed restoren of the aotedilaYiau
Idolatry of the mooo, ?f.
Sableao, a t-hief object of the aotbor io pab-
litbiog th-, Yi.
wby the preaeot Yolome Ia10 deaipated, is.
R-,Calab, Ur, Babylon, aod Ninneb, the amaller mo.
ouotenta of, bot imperfectly known ae.
Ra, Clludiaa Jai; Elq., maoy cy&den by, 6.
- - - compariaon ofaymbola OD a piD of, with fimi-
Jar oa tbe Boqbtoa ficuet, 1'7t.
- - - AldebUlo preaentedua deityoa apm of,189.
- - - outliae of a BabyiODiaD moiiOIDellt by, com-
rued with the Atbrea oa certalll cyliuden,191--ttS.
---- reference to a eyUoder of, coacei'Dinc a peno-
olfieatioo coooected with Taaraa, ·359.
Rile., Emdan, depeodaot on the ac:rooical Mttiocaod
coamical riaiq of Bootee, 114.
the aipiftcatiou of the Hebrew word aeeordillc
to Y&rioaa autboritiea, 3M.
R__,,horolcopieal alpeta aaed by the, 43.
R...... the ItO')' of, a CODDected with the early 11M or
alpeta ID Perua,·9, 10.
Rdu of aucletlt Babyloa, uti foaotlatioM, c:ontiuue to
be aearcbed by the Arabi, t.
8.
&N1 place Ia Arabia, alto oae Ia tbe JEtbiopia of Elst
Attie, 159.
-- iD Africa, oaly Jupiter aod Baccbaa wonblppetl at,
aecordifta to Herodotaa, ibid.
or of, to Brace, 178.
.W..Cbl, Bac-clnaa, all deified by the deacen.
dante of Caab,
S."-- Reaean:bea, tbe utronomyaud biatoryofremoteat
acea pe&tly elucidated by, Yi.
- derintloo and import of the word tioom nrioaa
leaicotrapben, 18.
---lipta, tbe aubjecta of, to be aoapt for ia the
moat audent Arabiao uti Cbaldean euttolllll, te.
- cuetoma of Arabia, Ecypt, Penia, Greece, beat
tend to eaplaio tbe myatie acme. "'·
- wonbip, the wide seocrapbical or, ia the
remote aces, tM•
.,._, eseeoted treatiea by the impreu of aipeta be-
fore writiac wu ioteoted, lb.
- - - tbe doctrioea of Mtroloey fint propapted by
the, H.
- - - the lioeap ofthe, tJ1roaab wbidl their upenti·
tioaa faith came,
- - - the peater put ofIIIUikiad oaee embraced the
teaeta of the, 69.
- - - the lelllptared ..... of the, are reaiaten or...
riout poaitiooa Of the Jaeayeoa, 101.
- - - the aolar God of the, aod reliaioucaat0101, tiom
Baoier'a MytboJosy, 160.
- - - a brief Yiew of 10111e tymbolical 1D7'teriea of
the, 193.
- - - coaeenaillc the aolar deity of the, &om lfaero.
biaa, 1'71, 1'7&
---· ao'*- ofthe, u to bleaaloa, or blppi-, uti
the c:a-wlatace it tpriup, m.
SB
Digitized byGoogle
396 IN D EX.
.W.... ill Greece benme bleDCiecl with mytbolcJckal
fiction, 45.
teaeta, rita, and aymbola dll'ered ia aome ....
spectt in the Yarioas •tioas, 266.
8a6iiHl, tbe Lord of, that it Jlliti.&ba-the leader ofdi-
•lne aiclerial pcMrel'l, i79.
- - the boat of, the atarrydbiaitiell dill'erillg ftom one
aDOther iD glory, taO.
·:UBAZto:z, a name applied to Bacdlu, u rec:orded by
Artatophan-. 161.
...... (See Adftil, BaccAu, Boil,., B..._,--,
NMit, o.lrie.)
iD Eupt, ceremciny of1lliDg aipeta bythe priest.
bood at, 61.
S.W, M. Silnetre 4e, tbe PariliiD orteataliat, a aollec:tor
olaipeta, J.
s.,itl......, fipre of, oa u aaciellt Oredlm boroaeopie
....,.• 7.
- - - - the domicile, or a•oartte DIUiloa oftbe pla-
net Jtlpiter, 1f6.
----- DOt repretmted u a CeDtMr ill the Aailltic
epeeimeea, 1.1.
... tlte Ballwonllipped at, ud celebrity of, or the Ball
of M1eerinna, 1:16.
s.r.••nu, opilrioD of, u to the partieallr- oftbe 4ial of
Aouimander, SSt.
6.11, Mr., aat"tllitieaeeat to Eap.d by, depolitf'd in tbe
Britiab MDHnm, 118.
Sat«.,_, myJteries of, Ia what IIIey are 111ppoeed to
han driefly 188, 189.
....._WAft, quoted coneerni111 tile IIIJtlroleQ of Phl2·
aieie,'11.
- - - - - the Avotea ef, ideadfied with NCid, tt&.
- - - a l l mention of the Deh•ge omitted by, fiDlt,
ibid.
s.r.., the O.l4eaa, a period in wbich the ... ba•iac
made 19 re•olutiona of the sodiac, and the moon,
..they meet ia d•e Mme point, 75.
-·- etymon of the word, ud ita up..- meaoiag,
197.
-- tbe, a cycle Mppueed to han been kno•• to the
EQptiaoa u well u Cbllldeua, 197.
&I-. Japiter, and Man, repreaemed by three of tile
baroen ofMoaea•a maclrine, 8t7-jS9•
.,.,....,, die modern ai&• Cancer delignated by lit in
the 10d1ac of Deodera, tM, us.
- - - whether llieroglyphically naed to espre11 an
eclipw, Uoid.
- - - the Ecrtiaa emblem of tile aolatitial 111n in
anmmer, t!>7.
- - - an engrmog on tllle uDder eurface of oae, de-
aertbed, S60.
ofJudah, the, nplanatioo of the ....Uag of,from
8p. Newton, 66.
- the, aam100uted with a lotoa, 1 a,-abel iu the
Egyptian ceiling oaed to define a meridional poillt uf
tiaae, t49.
&blltu on a in Job, relatin to ahrneta, 11.
- - Interpretation ofan espreaaion ofJob by, "here
Job it anppoaed to appeal to hia aipet u hia Yoneher
In IICI'tdly protesting hi• integr1t7, t8.
&riplarta, the, abonnd in the menuom t•.
- - - places in "ltereaigneta are nprealy epokea
of, ss.
- - - frequent appeal• to, oece..ry in protecat·
ing Sabean inquiriea, 1184.
______._merely habitual readen of, criticised, a11d
trolt, su.
.sc,r_., a tropical inatrnmeot, or dial, erected in, by Phe-
recydea, SSl.
&rdiawl all tbe gmt S.been •tioDI recei•ed die royal
wUI ny meana of, IS.
- before the iDn11tloa oC writing, wu tutamout to
aipiog, M.
- u p111etiaed by the Hebrewa, importut iataaee
of, recorded by Nehemiah iD tlae ratifteatlon of the new
eo•euant, ibid.
&ell rnul•iq, almile or, in Job, a p...... of llltlela diii-
. celty to ti'UIIIaton, u.
----bold metaphor in the Orphic h,.... to
Apollo, applicable to, 16.
-- of tbe lEthiopiaua, eD«raYed with the ltODee with
wbidl tlaey barbed their arrowa.
the aDDGal cirenit of tbe, aymboliled in the Egyp-
tiAn m111ertea, 198..
of tbe T...ne 11mboll t.'t1111 beea
adopttd by the, ttt.
8q/aiitJtl, the book of11ered aim• of the Hebrewa, sss.
S..pU, OCCUiOD of the DIIDf beill!( SiYea to Olin., 196.
- - examination of the nrioua antboritiea concerning
the radix of the word, t 97.
- - the modem worda, Sir, Sire, Siear, thoagbt to ,..
aolt ftom tbe root of, 11.U, Uttd•
&rpntl, the flying, au Mtronomit<al allnaiou ia the Book
ofJob, 16.
&.. St.,.., 1 featore on tbe Boaglttoll cylinder, lH6.
(Hee Plfteda, Slf«<Ol.Btwlfl.)
Sa:fu B.,ftu, thf' Chaldeaa -ner ef CMting aatfyj.
tiea dete'ribed by, &8, 54.
a.1 Ne.rlt, or Book of Kinga, a Ptniu Poem by Fer-
dOli, 9, I0.
SAet.amr, or Salman-uanr, (probably meaoiog A111riao
Solomon), ..u, S!O.
----the Mlbjec:taof,on tltetnael'tftl ofthe
Land of larael, ' aet ap their ligna for ••·' illi4. .
SMNt1 the Heltrew worcl by Bp. N-t.oa and
Parklmnt, JIOlt, 66.
of the TrojaM and ()reeka, laoreaeopi<" ebaf'J" 011
the, 41.
SAtrhrll, Sir &ltr. iaf.,_ Dl that-. thielt
to be laion, 1S7.
oa tile ancielltly impeted to
aiderial inllueooe, MS.
BAU., the Hebrew dluaeter, espl'elli'te Meaaiwg ioeiHetl
by. !96.
8ibib, or Habib, aipifiu, uRate..,., '1\ropie, with tlte
auigned reason, :wo.
&ida, eng,.•ved ge- fond in tile llleiglabourllooll of ao-
cient, vi.
- to by Homeraa • endoent aeat ofart, tU.
- - by" c:oloay of S.baau from *e coaat of
the Rtd Sea, SM.
Sip, primiti•e and emphatic meaning of tbe wercl, tS.
-- JynotiJIIIOOI with tbe Hebrew woM MA, tS; ita
myatie import, ibicl.
Stoturr. by the royal,ofPharaoh, wu Nlllferred•JGeepb
a hisb ,.ttlie 1ppoiot111eat, 5. .
- - - - 1 portable, poueaaed by patriarab.;fatW!, tiM.
---- meatioD ofa, io Ferdoai'a PeniaD •81116
r\amell,' 9.
- - - metaphorical allnioD to a, in tbeOrphie 1 HJIDD
to Apollo,' 16.
---- df'rh11tioa of, and remarb eoneeroing tbe na-
ture of the word, 21, !If.
- - - aenae in neb the word ia ated tty the Prophet
Haggai, 26.
----aregal, tbngbt to banbeiDased-byJaebel to
Aeal her forged h.•tters, 84.
---in the time ofJe.-iah, _..to eot..eJiud-to
a ibid.
Digitized byGoogle
INDEX.
s•ellft, t1te wotd, DOt dertfecJ ftoont the praedce ofaeal-
ing with the, S9.
- - the, a ncre4 property with wbieh every Baby-
looiao was provided, 4!.
- - - the, of the emperor Angeat111, bore the aign
Capricorn under wbicb he wu bora, 45.
- - - deac:riprioo and eaplanation of a Grecian horo..
copical,
- - - a &abean, deteriptloa aud explanation of the
contents of, '10-'lt.
- - - deseriptiou and eaplanatioa of the fiprea on an
ancient, 107-163.
---bronght from Aatioch, deaeription and eapla-
nation of a, t64 IC «q.
- - - oudiae of aa ancient, Ia the collection of Mr.
Rich, t'lt.
---Mr. Ricb'aand that of Sir W. Boughton, eom-
p_arilon between, ibid.
· whether the Boughton, wu for the 1111 of the
Sphngiate, S40.
SaoNETt, place• where they are moatly found, Yi.
- - - and other 0111 for whic:h they were
designed, viii.
- - - belonging to the Cbaldeaaa, cylindrical form of
a clua of the, t.
- - - various kinda of precioaa atone. oa wblcb they
were engna•en, t, t.
- - - uaed by the Hebrewa and aarroaadiag natioaa
before the time ofMOieA, S.
- - - opiniona of Dr. Clarke aad Mr. Broee coueern·
lng, ahewn to he erroneona, 4,
- - - manner in which they were engraved aad m0U11t·
eel for nae, ibUI.
---the opinion of the Secretary of tl1e Newcastle
Society of Autiquariea reapec:ting, ihid.
- - - abundance of, found among the raiDs of Baby.
lon, ibid.
- aeYen cylindrical, of nriona dimenaiona, ud
two ofan hemilpberoidal fonn, mention of, '1.
- - - cluaification, "'ith regard to their Wlta, ofeuch
u are knuwn, attempted, 8.
- - - perforated 10 •• to receive an to re•olve
upon in rendering impreaaions, ibid.
- - - the smaller of leaa remote antiquity than the
Jarcer, ibid.
- - - attached to armleta, ringa, nec:klaees, and walk-
ing teeptrea, ibid.
---10metimea worn upon the ann, evinced by a
p11a11 in the Song of Solomon, ibid.
- - - worn in their hair by d1e Peniaa, Arabian, and
Nubian femalea, to.
- alluion to the mode of obtaining impreaaiona
&om, ou clay, by Job, U-15.
---- Sablean, teatimoaiea concurring with the au·
thor'l eaplanation of tl1e nature and 111e1 of, 19, tO.
- - - tiled in Greece for aacred in the time
of..t:achyloa, t7.
- - - ancient Cretan, of a horoacopic aatnre, ahewu
to han been -d, ibid.
- - - two remarkable facta resulting from inquiriea
concerning, ibid.
- - - the aac:recllmpurtanee 11ttached to, in making
tealen reapooeible. collected from Job, t8, t9.
---- flat-faced, dee01ed to have been tboae of the in-
ferior ad IHitt, iftd.
- - - placea of Scripture where •pokeo o(, ss.
- - regal, when introduced into aae among the He-
breWI, 34.
- - - beariag literal for hiero-
oaea, S5.
S•o•BTI, Sablllan, under the aame 'grann for.
bidden by Moeea, ibi4.
- - - the of, plaDeta
aud eouatellatiou, 36.
--.-- graven, distlagailhecl &om cutormolten imqes
in the Mosaic interdiction, M.
- - - their eubjeeta were 'feDerated u lipl,
sacred 40.
- - - the devices on, not matten of choice, bot ....
lligned by judicial prieata, 41.
- - - contained an astrologieal ahltract of the bea·
Yeaa at the hour of each birth, llel!f
- - - horoaeopical aaed by the ureeaa and
u well as the .S.
- - - - - oftbe Oaaldeaaaand
pared u to their fuhioa, 49.
- - - - - the c:eleatial eoaravecl on,
bow determined, and a.igned to indiYidnala by the pro-
per authoritiea, 55.
- - - taken to be amulet• or taliamana by the modena
Penlana and 10me Earopeaaa, 6'1, 58.
- - - ahewn to be pioaalledaea offaith, 60.
- - - of the inferior kin , brfefly deaeribed, ilicl.
_.....__ cylindrical, beaillea of iadiYidaal aae, were
appropriated on reUaioaa Qd dvil oc:cuiou, 611 61.
- - - the fi«area ac:alptored on Cbaldean illferior to
the refined forma which Greece and Rome Ia their beat
daya produced on their gema, 68.
- - - of the larger kind, eubatancea of, and aneouth
style and peat antiquity of, 64.
attached, probably by a thOIII, to walkinc
atavea, u ebewn in the caae ofJudah'a, 66.
- - the Lion found on the Cbaldean, pro·
bably the' Lion ofJudah,' 6'1.
- - - poueued and reyered by the poaterity ofAbra-
ham, till the Deealogue forbade them, 68.
- - - on the Sableiu, the upec:ta not placed accoN.
iag to one uniform role, JOt.
eatl'lleiiOdiaeal uteri11111 Yery
generally introdocecl, 103, 104. ·
J.ieroglyphieal recorda of the leading upec:tut
the timea of birth,
- - - on the more andeat, the aun ia al-yt with rayt,
the moon witbont, tM.
---and aigna, .£tbiopia the laud of,
<S:,::f,_,.,'G-, Borecpic !JV·
and u appliecl to modern eoYenaaU, haYe
each a diatinc:t tellle; bat in remote agee, when writ-
ing wu rare, tealing wu signing, 15.
Sip, the tweln ofthe IIOdiae, wby 10 tenned, sa.
-- or why graven imagea are eapecially 10
called, ibid.
-- the atan empbatieally and aaequi•ocally dftlared
by Moeea to be (or, ibid.
8iritu, the Dog-atar, called hy the ancient Ec'PtJaal
&tm., 249.
- - tettin11 u Tauraa rilfl, a feature of the Dendera
zodiac, 11 Mr. Henley thinb, Vl5.
- - mataal relation of, to Capricorn in the Dendera
Kodiac, 116.
- - tbe heliacal riling of, the lipal by whlcb the So-
tllic period wu aclj•ted, M6.
- - the phenomena of, to the Rothic period,
eubmitted to the criterion of the Jlobe, 167'.
-- tbe lint meridian of tire £uptian year, aa projected
on the drc:alu ceiling of Deadera, determiaed by ita
puainf through the 111ppc!llec1 emblem of, t49.
- - aymbolir.ed in the plaailplleric eeiU.., by the
bright-eyed bawk, 150.
SBj
Digitized byGoogle
398 INDEX.
Siriu, relatln poeitlon o(, with the ltar Cutor in the ob-
looczodiae, aad inference, ibid.
Sldrra of animala naecl ia early to write npon, St.
SlriropUria. the Athenian, by Mr. Oarlatie, eYidenee from
u to ancient cutome, lt7. ,
&l, forcible import of the word u applied to aua, t71.
-- in Arlee, at the aeuon of the nmal equiuoa, c:..lled
Ball-ammon, and Jupiter·ammoa, M, t28.
S..011, rep) aipeta not ued ia the Jewlab tJocdom till
after, M.
- - - pbruea io the writiDp of, aUui.a to IDD wor.
lbip, t74.
&1M, the Greeb eolllidered mach inferior iD to
the Egypti... by, ttt.
s.wi«, the of the, iD the Deaden zodiac., ae"ea
to settle their datea, t4'1.
- - the lip of the, iD the Daden zodiac, deaipated
by Snrabtei, 154.
- - aummer, the Greelr.a bepn the laoar year, at the
lnt new moon after the, t61.
- IUD at the, denoted io SableaD 1e• by awillaed
orb, 369. ·
- defiaitioo of the word, aad ita appropriate ap,li·
calion to denote the aolar pbeDomeoa at the trop1cal
HIIIOD10 3'13.
&lllktl aad eqoiaoaea iD the Anptuap, -t ofthe,
tot. .
- - - aignified ia Eaelr.iel by the Lion aad Mao, 3tO.
- - repreaeated in the Cbaldeaa plaoitpberea, oae
by llD aa aad foal, the other by a filh·tailed pat, Ibid.
- aad eqolnoaee, tenued iD Scriptore the •Gatea
of Hea•ea,' 311.
&.., tf &lo.olt, eoatom of wearing lipeta oa the arm
aDuded to ia, 9.
s..a.,-, Chaldeaa, adtaatagea taba of the creduloat
by, 187.
&rmm, mentioned by Job, Iaaiah, ace.utrologieal im-
poatore, 5t.
a figure of Juno or Astarte from the early
Greek colDs, 10pplied by, 11.
JoiAnAA1 the aigaet or aeal ao called by Herodotae, im-
properly traoalated by Beloe, 3. .
VII, to, to9.
Sp116f, the modem celeatiol, eoatalaa a Greek and Roman
•enion of the primitin eooatellatlona, 9t.
- - the Arabi.ila or Colle, deacribed by Toaldi ud Aa-
aemanoo, '98.
- - the FaraesiaD, obeerntio111 oo the utiqaity o(, by
VoiDey, 99.
ram-headed, oble"ed at Soleb, ia E,ypt, by
Waddington, !30. .
aa order of.Efyptiu prieata,aad theirpeeoliar
oflice, 6t.
----clay, uaed by the, iD aeaJioc the Yictimsfor the
altar, 63.
- - - - ftlaable information from Herodotas, rela·
tiYe to the, SSt.
Stukv, Mr., authority of, relatin to the dial or gaomoo
of Pberecydet, SSt.
&.1, the poetical and aettiop of the, 101.
-- dedicated to the great patrooa of till•ae iu the pri·
mitiYe agee, 119.
-- the, ae"ed aa a general calendar, or ayatem ofsigna,
before writing, tM. .
-- with and without rays, diatiagaiahed ia a peculiar
maoaer on the siguett, u;s.
- Ia BoOtee, a table of the aoceeaiYe order of11tliog
of the, 1'19. '
-- the polar, sncce&Jion of the, described aceordiag to
the epochs of aenral, 2US. .
SUn, the llftO. or a COIIIpieaoDI featare of thtt
Syrian1!'.,d;;,:.
(See , aad I'UIUkable stan eacb ODder
ita iadiYidaaJ DUll.)
s,..--,. the great extent of iD die EMt, and aorth- .
ward into Scythia, 37.
- - - - the utiqaitiet of, die geaeraJ topic ODder .
eonaideratioo, 56.
- - preceded the adoratioo of penooiW deitiea .
ud eymbola, 1".
the lint impalle by which the ha- .
mao miDd waa adaatecl, 164.
- - the primitiYe religion ofGreece,..,,.ihi4.
- - - - the phyaical adftllt&ga of Arabia aad E,ypt
for utronomical coadaeed to, 167. .
- - - - f'rum the myateriea of, remlted the symbolil:·
ing •J•t•m ofdiYioitiee, 186. .
(See Idol«<ry, G..- 1-.u, Sp6ola.)
Sltlltr upecte, doctrioea of the IIDCienta eonceraiag, 342.
8t011a, the tweln, aet ap u a aiga by the twelYe tribea
on p&Minc over Jordan, 85.
Swftl/&.lkrHtl, a tnreluy eoastellatioa boaoared by the.
Babyloaiaas, 110, Stt.
- - - - - literal aipifiratien of the term, 3ts.
anppoaed be the Plei'adea of Greeee,
the Kimah ofJob, tbe al Tbaryllia ofthe Arabiaoa,iiU•.
S••• the winged, a particular subject oa which the author
hu dilated, a.
-- the anoual obliqne path of, anppoaed to be iDtimat-
ed by • the ftying aerpeut' in Job, 16.
--moon and atara, the011dored by certain nations ofthe
Eaat, 3'1.
-- and King of H•na, Identical npre.iona among
the Babyloai..., t39. _
-- nriona penoaifiutioas of, especially thoee of Ball
ud Jupiter, 139-146.
-- t,be, aod planet Jupiter, period of a ayoodic COD•
junction of, a.so.
-- the, alway• repreaeated willa radiation oa the oldeat
gema, 1M.
--the «-hiefdinrnal deity (BoOtee the aoctaraal) ofthe
.£1blopian•, .
-- feativala in hoooar of the, bow dependant oa the u-
pectt ofthe conatellated Hoabaadmao, 16t, 163.
-- reuon why Oairia eame to be erroneooaly idati&ed
with the, 163.
-- the nmal, peculiar phenomenon, u to tile beliacal
riainc of Aldebarln at the acroaical departure of the.
Hm•bandman, t8t.
-- the Sablelloa confounded Oairis with the, ud appa•.
rent reaaon for the aame, .,_ ,.,t,186, 196.
-- and mooo, eclip41ea of the,calealated io former tim•
by the aatrooomical prieatbood,
-- at midnight, the, ahewo io the myateriea of Eleasla,.
ace. to the initiated, ibid..
-- the kiaga ofTyre aud arrogated to be de-.
aeeadanta of the, ttl.
-- moon, aad Jnpiter, iD coujanc:tioa ia the yeraal eqoi.
noctild aiga wonld be a pheaomeaoa greatly aolemaized
by tbe oatiooa, 139. _. .
- the winged, .. repreaented OD the Syriao cem. 164.
-- the, nriooa titlea of dignity uaed by the utrouomi,
cal prieata in addreaaiog, t70.
- tbe, "·orahipped by the Sabteana u ChiefGod joiDtl,:
witb tbe moon aa Chief Goddeu, t73.
-- the pt'raonified1 of later date than the wiaged, t'16.
- - - image of, bow repreaeated oa llD ucieot cylin-
der, t?6, t890 l1Cl9.
- how repreaented lo the plaaetatia ofMOfll and Solo.
moo, 3t7.
Digitized byGoogle
l N DE X. 399
Sa, at the Tropic, IJ!Dbol of the, OD the :&oaptoa
lblder, S40.
- the, uad plallet Japiw, fUDi1iar eompariloa or the
matual motioaa of, ibid.
- - - wioced,= bJ DeDoD, 369.
(See Edipetl, &1.)
a....,., willpd, probably alhlclecl to bJ Milton,
mer, Malachi, and othen, t16.
- - - - mentioned Ia the writillp of laiah COIIjtaac-
tiYely with Aabrea, sot.
the aUaaioaa to in the Old Teatament appear
to correapoud with one on Sabean p01, Aahrea in both
cuel beiiiJ CODD«ted, SJO.
SttptrtCUiMa of the SahiWIII with reprd to their natal
stan, .s.
Sua, proclamation of Abuneraa at, made abaolute by hil
aipet, t6.
--Nehemiah, tup·bearer to the PenlaD king at, uad
aealillgef the cOYenant by, 55.
s..iu JtUXIII, ancient drawinp of the coaatelladoaa ill
poueteioa of, 515.
sp.bol of equipoiae, Libra, or the BalaDce,on the Greclall
hor01e0pic llfPiet, •7.
- utrolosaeal ofthe moon'• monthly orbit, the .Lunar
Drqon fll.
- ofAltarte, the creaceot, why railed by the Tvka
u their 57.
- of the new veraal moon, the Horned BaU, wor-
abipped ill Japan, and by the ancient 80.
- of the vernal aeuon, a buntill& ea, ibi4.
- aa asricultural, attached to a fipre of BoOtes oa
an ancient gao, 101.
- of the tranait of the veraal eqaillux fivm the BaD
to the Ram, us.
- - of a vine, aaed in Kircher's plaoiapbere in lieu of
Bacchua, tSO.
- - the CCimmon, of Aqnariaa, deaotet the atreama
of Euphrates aad Tigris, 1S7, 15$.
--of the sign Caacer, ill the E,yptlaD aodiac, a
Beetle, t58.
- - of the solar 01otion, a will&ed orb ; ita aJJqorieal
meania1 explained, i66.
- - of the aau'a annaal c:lrcait denoted by a uae or
belt, t69. .
--- of the etarry firmament, a fruit-tree, tal.
- - the Arabian,of the aodiac, a with twel'fe
braucbea, tat.
- - set ap by the mea of Babyloa, called Saceoth-Be-
uoth, Stt.
- - of tbe llliJIIIIer soletice, U denoted On a ICIDt S.l.
- - uf the planet Venae, ac:alptared ou a fl!m• 363.
- - myatic, 11ttached to tbe figure of <Aaaopeia oa an
ancient 1em, u..
- - of the solstice, auppoeed to be repre1e0ted on the
Bouptoa cylillder, S67.
Spa6oll, the worabip of, - an emenion from the primi·
tive wonbip ofplaaetl, 110, t•6, 1641.
- - held by Oeiria, Volueyaappoaed to aUqoria:e at•
traction and repulsion, 118.
- attached to the collltellated fi&are of Hercolei,
1St.
- - of the reapeetiYe powen of Jupiter and the Su
held by the etatoe at HeUopolil, 146.
- the wonbippiog of, bqaa by the Sabeaaa, J60.
- - - - - - - - - root or comDitnceDieot ofex-
amined, 165.
- - amonc the Sabeao, aerpeata and pomepaaatei
were coaepicuoat, 191.
- - a aeries of, by which the aonaalayatem ofaeuoaa
ia denoted, 198.
Sp6oll ofthe aaa and mooa at their c:Ciqjaadton, t30.
-solar and lanar, u conaected with the ratna aDd
baU. ofthe ndlaca ofEuPt, w.
- - sothie, u praeateC£fa the Ecpdaa circalar ceil·
inc, t5t.
--not worde, tiled by the Sabeaaa to dCICribe the
Oae Supreme,
--- aatroaomieal, relatin dimeaaioaa of, aceorclillr to
prototype• aot reprded io, 189.
--- ofcherabi01, palm·treea, and wheela, u deacribed
by Ezekiel, St.5.
- of the aodiaeal taken abatractedly, perblpa
termed Maaaloth, SS.. ·
- of the creeceat-Dioon and winged aan oa cem,
what their relatln poaitiou seem to d«lare, S?'S.
T.
Ta6ll ofthe order obaenable io the settine of the MYeral
stan ofthe Hoabaadman, 179.
hypotbeala with reepect toaipete, obaenatiou
on, aad rejection of the, 56.
T.U..V, defiaition of, by Dr. Hyde, with arpmeata
conceraiDJ, relative to aipete, 59.
T-, pledge of a atalf and aignet recei'fed from Judah
by, 5,8.
TcMW, Mr., maable collection of oriental pma ill the
,_..loa of,""· ·
- - a amaU Gredaa Taarae, from a cat ill the collec.
tloa of, 117.
Tarl and Millotaari, the, of Babylon and Penepolil,
thought tu beloo1 to the aacleot period when the BaD
wu wonbipped u leader of the nraal aeuoa, 11...
ofE«YPt and Greece thoupt to be
the olfeprin« oflater ibill.
Tcvu, ' tile day.apriog,' in the Yernabeason, &om, ill the
time ofJob, 17.
- - the ancient aealptnrea of ball-laorned S,Urea baYe
reference to the sip, 1•.
- - the moat aoneat fiprea of, similar to the Uraa or
wild bnU of ladla, 78.
- noerated u the equiDoctial lip after the Eqai-
aox bad Increased iato Aries, '79.
- - reYerenced throapout Alia aoath or mount Tao·
raa, 19.
- - the, on the Lemiaao YMe, thoapt to atand in
aquare with two other eipe, implied to be Leo and
Aqoariaa, wbirh represent the aoletica of that era,
- - DlaDiioa of the planet Veaat, 8f.
81.
- - cbaraeteria!d by ts and explanation of the aym·
bol, 115.
--- a Chiaeae bronn antique, acCOODt or, 116
- a Chinese-a BabyloaJan-a Phceoietao-a
-aud an £cptiao-repreaentatiou of, and commenta
on, 117.
--- the dilc and crescent oa the bead of, attachable
jointly or not, u the ease required, 118.
- - the eqoiaox bavill1 egreaaed from, - succeeded
by Ammon or the Rain, u the equilloctialeicn, ttt.
- - the year comDieoced with tbe fint uew moon lo,
till the time of Virgil, tit.
- - the moat ancient ac:ulptarea foaad ia Africa, none
of them represent the year opening witb the atan in the
bead of, tt•.
--and ·Leo, the moat aacient 'Gates ofHeaven,• or
· Yernal aad aammer aipe. st•.
T.,w, Mr. T., conctrlliDJ an ancient atatoe ofthe mooa
at Elie, ""'• '7S. .
- - - - - an accoant of the Eleuillian 101•teriea e:&·
tntcted &om, 189. . .
Digitized by Goog
INDEX.
T,.., or palace ef the Homed BaK iD a.ina, 10.
-the superb, of Deadera, DOt by He-
roclotu, Ht.
- tile ebenabl nd pabaa ia Er.ekiel'l Yilioa of the
Sib.
T,.,n, the Babyloniaa, eootaille4 of llrliobtauri,
Spbimtea, &e., 69.
- - - EcPtiaD ofJupiter-on, Baedlut, Uld Jaia,
deKribed-by Waddi..toR1
- - - deaeribed by Waddiuctoa, of Jupiterr-oa,
aDd time ofbaildin« uf, alcolated, t.M.
Tclllpil. (See IN, z.&e of Dftlllma.)
nr.1, the father of Abraham, the inteupa•er aDd eealp-
tor oa reeonl, 6.
- tile aupentitiolll tbat preniled io the time of, the
aobjeeta of biJ imapa, 59.
Te:cU, maoyaeriptural, proriaa tbe milcooeeptioo of the
word Aabre by tile trualaton, us.
G1nau, i. •er. 1, pp. St, St,SP.-i. Yiii.
p.ttl.-'riii. ••• 9, P· 186.-Lp. ... ts, p.
Slt.-KD'fiii. •er. pp. 1'1, ••· 18, p.65.
ExoDva, •iii. p. M.-xx•iii. xxais. p. ._
LIVITICUI, iii. iv. p. 61.-:sni. ver. so, P• StO.
DllOTIROIIOilY' :swi. •er. It, P· soo.-a.uiii. P•soo.
Jo•av•, iY. p. ss.-'fiii. nr. St, p. S6.-uii. nr.l9,
p. SO., Mk-ut•.'NI'. t6, p.SO., Mk.-uis. 1'er. 19,
p. soo.
JVIHIII, iii. nr. 'l,p. SOI.-i. 'fV.I5, 16, p. SOt.-
Yer. ta, so, p. sos.
I.ltMrol, iL nr. 17, p. SS.-xyiii. "'• 19, p. 303.-
Mi. "'. 8, p. S6.
11. Kn•oa, •· nr. 18, p. SSS.-xwii. •er. 8, p. ao. ;
'fU.16, p.S<M.; nr.l9, SO, p. StO; ••· SO, p. 1'10.-
:ai. p. S06.-uili. P· S09.-.uxiii. •er•., p. S08.
L Caao•acr.aa, 1. nr. 46, 60, p. 111.-ia. •er. 18,
19, p. SU.-:s'fi. •er. 4, 5, p.SJ'I. lUUii. 'fer. 1S, P.• S19.
n. C•ao•tCJ.a, iii. wer.1S, p. St5,tNie.-Yiii. nr.
6, P• SS.-.uxii. •er. "• P· SIO.
N•alllaAa, ix. •er. sa,R.· S6.
Joa, i. nr•., p. 51.-xiii. nr. ts, , . st.-m. Yer.
ts, p.Sl.-xui. 'fer. 18, p. SO.-ulU• .u.16, 1'1, 18,
P• S6.-uxiii. YV. tt,IS, P• 50.-xuY•.u.5, 8, p. 60.
-KDviii. nr. 11, pp. 16, 17.-JED.W. "'· 15, p.15,
Mle.-KDYiii. nr. ••• p. 11.-xu•iii. pp. 19, 18,so.
PIA£111, i. 1'er. 1, P• t9P.-m. P• 1'18.-1. luiii. P•
St'l.-lw•. nr. Sto, SU, ltOCe, p. Sl'l-tauix., P•
St8,1t0Ce.
&LOiloll'a Soao, •iii. nr. 6, p. 9.
Iuua, Yiii. ver. 19, p. 5t.-xl•ii. ver. 1t, p. 5t.
JaaalltAB, x. nr. t, p. sa.-uY. ver. 13, p. 60.-
Ullli. nr. '1, 8, to_.,, p.S-6.-XUY. 1'er.ts, p. 50.
EIIIUilL, Yi. nr. 3, p. 310.-Yiii. nr. 16, 1'1, p. tSS.
-sll. nr. 18, to, p. S!5.-xli•. nr. 8, p. S17.-ltlvii.
"'· 1t.·p. tat.
Durn., •ii., p. taa.
A11oa, v. •er. 8, p. Mt, aolt.
HAGGAI, ii. nr. tl,1
.!3, P• 16.
MALACHI, i'f. nr. t, p. t'/6.
ZICBARI.\B, ltii. P· SS6.
Loaa, i. nr. r, p.13.
RnauTroas, 1ndi. nr. t, P· tat.
TAcln learnt from Syna and Egypt, 10'1.
- - the lesaer Bear mtrodoeed into Greece from Pha:·
nicla by, toa.
T'-- identified with Oairia byllrlr. Faber, ill.
. expreuinaiplftcatioo ofthe word m tht Eap-
tlan nomeudatore, tiS.
- - - the weepm, or the womea for, faeetioaaly
treated, ,..,,, ibid.
(See .4llolril, &rtcAu, BOiitn, BllllHrltct.a•, NHit,
om., tabaiu.)
fteM, the np.tM biftb.pl8te fl OliO., or place wben
boooun were fint paid to bim in Egypt. tiS.
2'_,._.of Eclna, eldefutnlopr te Ktr.Jif al Kolttft,
on the exit of Oairia1 iWI.
n-.., llil cautillr MiDoa to cat hil
into tbe en, t'l, 43.
- - by ao.e ttaeept to .. the £atloaaaia of ...- -
tial •phere, 13'1.
n.r, the Jllfliler of8ealtdiDhia,eipifiet ia tbat
aod io Chaldaic, a bnll, 80.
n.c.,or Odlodt, tile EcPtiugod of..._, lll)'ltie meg..
illc of tile wont, St.
--- the commencement of tlae aotWc period, lip by
wllida it - replatecl, U9.
T..,_ AI, tbe bf'liaeal riaing of, p•e notiee o( tbe
of !lpriag, MS.
. , tbe Arabian name for the Ple'iadee, VerJilia,
IUmlh, Snccoth-BeiiMb, 8ena Stan, wllida aee, Mt.
Tf,rilaacl EvpAratn, the lr.ladred ,..,._of, repreaeatecl
by die deaWe atram &oat the - of Aquri-,
151.
- - - - - - - , of, to moderate tbe Mlllltll
inuodatiooa ellfM'rieneed io previool .,., US.
I'MN lllld - af tile 8nt Cdaite lllipatioa, 11t. ·
-- eooaldered to bave been divided very eerly iato'
periocla ol te'fetl cia,.., 144.
-- from the to tile lleliMal riaiD& of
Aldebeata, lat. ·
- - wileD K.,. and ,.._.,were poo
tar atan, 104.
- of the 1e.eral erectiea of the te.plea of Jepiter•
ammon, tS'I, t-61.
- the osdOIMiical dl'fiai1111 of, nplai•d ia eloelda·
lion of certlAia hieroglyphics io the DOIIdera IIICiiaea
( ...t), flit.
TiiRtl. observin1 of the, a aeriptnral pb,_ relatift to
the fono1111te aDII upeeta of the
beawem, S07.
(See c-,.,.,...,
7'itau and Guda of Greece, a new uplaoadon of tbe (a.
buloul battle bttween, 45.
THlcfi, from the work of, it - found tUt die Celie
epbere il110t a pro..ctioo oflllldeot Arabia, 98.
T...ke, tramlator of Lucian, nldeoee of, relati•e to aa-
cient .IEtbiopic t•9.
T-u,. a...-ln, &q., 111ueta preaeoted to tlae British
Mnaenm by, 64.
T-11, lAir RRJ. Gt.rge, on tile paaaage or llrl01e1,
' He made the 1tan alao,• S9.
- - - - - - - - - - d«larea that the ori&iD of
• Gfoye-wonhip' bu Re9et" been ueertllined, 305.
to the Lenot reeomlllftlded to make eertaia
obterntiooa oo tbe Coloaaal Vue of Lemillo in CJ-
pnll, at.
7nl', bearin& fmit, a symbol or the COIIItellatt-, tat.
the myatir of tbe Ball.-, not to be onderwtood •
natural trees, tat.
were 111achioee for iDio
tiatiog the unlearned in tlae myateriet or utronomy,
· aDd bence • trees orkuowled&e,'
Tr-, L' an important mytholol{ieal fact neorcled
.
Tro,U, tbe, repr-ted mEltypt by a Beetle, and tbe
aipificauoo of the term ahown to be perfeetly aoa-
loput to an ioatillc:ti•e peculiarity of tbe iDHCt, 15'1.
- Sommer, the aon hieroglyphically repreaeoting
tbe, in the EpP,tiao IIOdiae, t60.
- - called 10 Hebrew, SiW, or Sabab, aipifyiiJI
' toruiDJ about ita toning,' MO.
- a pertinent bieroglypbie by whidt it ia repnHnted
on a iWI. ·
Digitized byGoogle
J N DE X. 401
2'nlpiel, widloat .,..._ qaliiecl to ialtnet them, the
. Uleal'llecl, ia die firat ape,.totally. witboat ealeoclarar
eoold not hue known when the suo bad appi"'OIclied
the, ud 10 direet In thia and other neb - the
office of the Allhaphim, St9.
- - the, meatioo madeof, by Homer, Helied, Thalet,
&e., 530.
- Pllereeydu let ap u iMtraMat to ueert.aia the
decliafttioa of tbe, SSt.
- - the, known to tbe Sabeana oC the primitite
... S69.
(See Col.-t, Gcta qf H,_, Pre6kM,
F-t of, eelebraaell by tile Jewa on tbeu new
Year'a day, 11.
by the -e utrooomieal
pllene•••..ow .Eiuter, 86.
Tn111 of the aotbor'a tbeory eonteraior tbe esit ofOairit
c:on6nned by tbe beliat'al riaiq of Aldebarlo, 18!.
-- aatrooomieal, abnaed by the ridiealoal fuciea of
tile Greek Poeta, !08.
'l'llr, aignifieation of llae word esplaiaed, 19.
IJraJti, rooeen1iu1 the biaaorieal facta, appertaioiac
to tbe primitive nunp of .r£thiopian eoutellatiooa, SoW;.
- - - - tbe authorities from wbieb hie Information
wu deri•ed nut &iven, IIOtt, MS. .
utroJotPftleobjec:ta with wbil'h tbe ab1eld of, wu
charged, "'·
,,..., 1M laocly oi Oairia into a certain number
of pieeea, 17¥.
- tile name by wWc:b any thing 4eatrac:tive -per-
aooified, 175.
- ef' the iepad, aad ceneral exptu.-
tion, ibid.
(See,...,.,_., o.irit.)
u.
Ulliwrwl Hill,..,, MCJieut, •tbority fl, IIIDCel'1liJII the
-ly CalbitN, ut.
- eoioeicWnee meatioDed in, u to
tbe day Noab entered tlae uk, beiltr tlae4ey Oairil iD
like manner entered tbe ark, tiS.
authority ef, eeaeereia« tJ.e
who followed rural ec:eupationa beiac tbe T.itau of the
ft-te qea, ..,.
Ullilltrw, the &reat l'ftieieot principle or aetaatill& power
oftile, alld itt eenaeetioo with SabiNo myateriee, 196.
Unaria, tbe Greek uame of a PeniaD deity, wonllipped
after tbe -uoer of tile Aayri- lllld Atabiaas.!..191.
Unc Mqj•,.a aet ofltara ia, kDOWO iD £upt u 'Ilie Car
or Aft of Oliris, IU.
(See B-, c;.,.,dlclitnr Sl..,.)
lh,Rbataaaaaeieotly oaecllonealiagio tlte lu4of,tS,15.
v.
Geaeral, OD the 1ipi6c:atiotl o( tbe Hebrew
word Riluln, SM.
f'a, or wioaow, ayaabolieally auadaed to the fitue of
BoOtea, 167.
V-, iD Frootiapieee, l'eUODI
for ita battered appearante, :si.
- - - Col011al ot Lemiaao, oo wbieb ia aeolptared the
aodiaeal Boll, 80.
v..,, the planet, repreaeoted on the Oreeiao borosc:opic
llignet, 45.
- Temple of, at Cyprna, iatereatiog c:ireu.taneea
relative to tbe, 8t. ·
- the planet, the aip Taaraa the fa.orite IDUIIoo
of, ibid.
- - and Adonia, ori&io of the Fable of, referred to u.
troaomic:al phenomena, ttt.
f'ftllfl, Mercary, aDd the lloou, iadieate4 llf ..._ ef
the boraen of Moaea' plaa.tary 111adli»e, tlf,
Vranla, tbe, ofA•bia, errooeoaal, thM&bt w be
penooated OD the Syrian scm, 858, SliD.
- - poaitioo ef, iadieatN oa the .r£tbiopiaft . - 11f
tbe character atill aaed to deuote the planet, S61.
--- poaitioo of, relative to Aldebaria and tbe &,M•,
lbowa her aituated in her dorual dignities, ibiL
f'qUW. (See Pfftfltln, s.. &an,
Bqllillo.%, the, ooee coincided whit the dutllr of
atara called Hyadea. b3•
(See eoz..,, _,.,....,Et•U..,Gel•
qfH-)
.J'tnllai, Lord, his opiaioo or tile fallaciea of.... claMk:al
writen, 1!I. .
f'ipdl1 EMUilltratfcl1. lee E..,.,.ae4 IUul,..,._, tDd
E"'f'"td Rqw..,llliiiWM.
f'ilultJIIW.V, peculiar upect of the atar reladwe to the
coaateUated Yine, 196.
- - - - a uame conferred on a atar of Vitp b1 the
Rnma1111,101.
J'illt, the, aaered to Oairls, in ltircber'a plaaiapbe,. ia
the place of Bootea, uo. ·
Yirgil, aatronomieal allnaiooa made to tlae -.na by, 100.
- - io.tbe &!IC of, tbe year pepolart, belieJed to c:om-
menee 1u Tauroa, ttr.
appean oo tbe meridian with tile conatellated Haa-
bandman, t95.
-- rooaideted to be a repreaeDtatioo ofCerea, .., ..._,
rot.
-- ayllebroaic rieiacof the 6ratatar of, with a eJaW'1tar
of Bootes, tot.
CouttiiGtwu, Slcn.)
J'i«owti, toncerain& the eymbolised diviaiona of tbe eir·
enlar of J>elldera, ,.,,
J'ilnlri••• Hereulea called aimply, 'the K.aeeler,' !by, aad
Ida aCCOWJt uf adjateot to the Kneeler,
tS3.
f'l,.,, Coaat, OD U opioioa of to.e 811CiUI.. tMt tbe
earth wu c:yliadrieal, INit, t•.
- - eoDHraiq the redproeal tMIDI of frieed·
ablp of tbe IIMap of Yemeo, aod tboee of Babyloll in
the primiti•e asea. 90. .
- faUaciou obaerratiooa or, u to die anti·
qoity of the Faraeae Globe, 99.
- - - - - - GD tbe IIIDIIDer adopted ..,. tile ucila.. ta
1ronpiq tbe atan, .,. 11011, to1.
- - - - - on the Caabite extrac&IOD of tJae .£thio-
J1iaal, and the route of their lint eot.miea, 111.
- - - - 1-..iak!oey of, in ideotifyiiJC Boitu
witb Adam,ud O.iril; while mak.iJ1c Neab,(ueparate
penooage,) Oairia abo, lU.
- - - eooeeraiog tbe Chepbeoea, and whence ao
called, SilO.
ou the prepooderatinc aaperiority ao4 pre·
cedeoce efdte Ye-neae to tbe Hebrewt, 15t.
In all reapeeta corroboratea die bicb uti·
quity of the Sabean uatioaa, SM.
f'oUcain eoocnn with Lucian •• to tbe &eopapbiealaoaree
ud proJreU ofkoowledce, 91.
f'alcu, Temple and Statue of, deacribecl by Herodotoa,
156.
w.
WfldU.,In,llr., TraYela of, iD Upper EiJpt, and et"ort
to dilc:onr Saba, U9.
·--- tbe aymbol of tbe nnlal aeaaoa ouly obsernd
to be attached to the Ram by, us.
- - - abewa the Ram to bue beea reJiciolldy bo-
aotlftd at El Belal, m.
Digitized byGoogle
402 INDEX.
Temple, thoupt to ban beeD de4ieated to
Baec:baa, 'riaited by, 1M.
WI!/•, the laCI'UileDtal of the RomaD Catholia, lmpreu-
ed by their prietta, 61.
,.,._,..,_, llipeta attached to, by ribboD or thoDe
aiDOIJI the Hebrewt, 69.
,.,.,., celeatlal, mentioned by Job, Daniel, and Mil·
toa, 54.
Welt, Dr., oplaioD of, relatiYe to thedlentbim apokea of
by M01ea, wt, s.
- - conce111iu« the reaene of the Hebrew Rabbio on
the abject ofdie Cberaba, su.
W.-, a aiYiaiOn of time ill general 11M from Immemorial
..., l41.
,,.,...,.,,!the academician, copyinc a !up antique,....
preeenteG to Ilia at.
- - - - the flnt emouon ofreligion, bow repNMIDled
by, t64.
Wiu, &at braapt to Egypt from }Ethiopia, accorc1iof to
De Paaw, 130.
WW., QteyaJJer, the little GredaD Tanraa, f10111 an ea-
PI'Yed OIIJll once heloali111 to, 111.
,,..,.,.. prKtiled Ia the time ofJob, and tlten
writtea upon, St.
--.- c,linden eapa•ed ill qea prefio• to the la-
•eotion of, 64.
x.
x..,... referred to concerninc the Aayrian canala,
153.
%indnlf, Cbaldean deJaae of, IUppoeed aJlaaiOD to, OD a
,em, 119.
Y.
v-.the Sabeaa, the Pleiadel once the leadiolatan of
the, 11&.
-- the, celebrated u commendiJI from 'l'a1U'III thoap
Arlee the real lip, in the time of Virlll, Jtt.
- the aolar and laoar of the Greeka, each denoted by
aymbola, tl5.
- the, coajunction of the RD and moon In Ariea, an-
ciently the bepni111 of, and hence the deific:-ation of
JupiteNDUDOn ori&iuated, I#.
-- the lanar of the Greekl, pbenomeaon which ruled
the commencement of, 161.
Y--. an ancieat name of }Ethiopia in Alia, or Arabia
- - the nry re-te antiquity of, u coatainlai•ttled
uadoaa, 550, Mt.
- - the fertility and deliptful aereaity of, detc:-ribed
by Gibbon and Milton, SM, 356.
z.
likened to alignet, by the prophet !he·
pi, t6.
- - - learned in the lawa of the Iaraelitea, and ill the
Cbaldeua ldeneea, A
z-&lu,or Joplter-BeiM, a name ofthe penoaifieiatioa
ofthe planet Jopiter, ae ralerofthe oocturDal beueaa,
144.
the tweiYe di'filioel ofthe, why oriplally termed
aagaa, sa.
- the lllllllr, or manalona of the mooa, t8 dlqions
of the moan'• orbit Ot't'Upied accon:liiJI to the 18 daya
in which ebe perfoi'IDI her moathlyliderial rircait, 74.
- inYented,nry polliblymore tban3000
. yean ago, 75.
thoiJibt to hue onp.uy commenced
at the •tar Aldebado 11.
- - - - - - the iuih antiquilJ ofrecoadled to ita
bepniiJI with the fint •tar of Anea, iUd•
(SeeM...._ 'Iflie M-, M-.)
--- the twel•e •ipa of the, takeD from ayatie 11Jil•
boll, Jbl.
- - tbe, DOt fint eqnlpped with emblematic 6prea by
the Greeb, lbl. ·
- - tbe, of and that of Dendera, preaent Aqna·
rina with aa am ia eacb band, 153.
- of Deadera, antiquity Ulipled to it by the
Freacb pbiiOIOphen, 114.
- - - - - opinioDiofMr. Henley u to the an.
tiqaity of the, ttb.
tralta of Gtadan art diaco•er·
able ia, tt7.
- - - - - - - opioioD ofSir Wm.Dra._Dd
u to the antiquity of, ibtd.
- - - - - - - the Tannllla, notparely BoP-·
tian, ttl.
- - - - - - - - date of, about the ap of Ales·
ander, t!S.
- or circ:Diar ceiliDc, C08UDCIIt on
the aabjed of, t4S, t44.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - time of ita
formation, and .,parent uea, t-65-148.
- aolotioa of an impGrtant prob-
lem relatiYe to the featorea of, 149.
- - - - - - obloag, bad reference to Greek
time, 14.7.
- - - - - - - - - - the pole of, and aothie
meridian, -waed by the author, 151.
- - - - - - - - - - - not 10 aadent u tlae
drcalar ceiliiJI, .
- - - - - - - - - - tbe principle of ita cea.
ltraction and apparent DID, ww.
- - - - - - the bieroglypbiea of eada perfeedJ
apeable to the celeatial pbeaomena, I5S.
-------tile place of the IDIDDier aolatiee JD,
diacoYered to be marked by the acaiJ!tDred 11111, t.W.
- - - - - - - deecriptioa and ill•tration of the
tropical emblem, 160.
- - - - - - - cimullltaacea wbicb pro•e the coa.
atractioa of, to ba•e been et'ected DDder Grecian la-
ilaence, t61.
.lWcnt, the Arabian DUDe of tile plaDet Veaa, Sit.
DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER.
The Bitult:r il duirtd to ploce the Outline oftlul " CIRCULAR CEILING," &\'c. opp01ite p. 248.
Digitized byGoogle
___ _ _ _ -4'..
