{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1824__anonymous___protest_against_the_spirit_and_practice_of_modern_legislation.pdf","mytitle":"Protest Against The Spirit And Practice Of Modern Legislation","mylang":"de"}
©
PROTEST
AGAINST THE SPIRIT AND PRACTICE
of
iſłłobcrit #1tgiglatiott,
* . AS EXHIBITED
in the
NEW WA GRANT ACT.
340mljon:
PRINTED FOR HARVEY AND DARTON,
GRACECHURCH-STREET
1824.
* -
[PRice owe shilliwG.]
-ºººº- — shiftimist -
º
º
THE following pages, though written above a year
ago, may, in the strictest sense, be called—first im
pressions. Circumstances, which it is unnecessary to
particularize, having prevented their application on
the spur of the occasion, they were laid aside, and
would probably never have seen the light but for
some recent enormous abuses of power, under sanction
of the new Vagrant Act—which have determined one
individual at least (though late) to protest against it.
Gye and Balne, Printers,
38, Gracechurch Street.
|
g
PROTEST, &c.
ON casually glancing, a few days since, at one of
our local weekly newspapers, my attention was
forcibly arrested by the following paragraph:—
“By the third section of the new Vagrant Act,
(3d of Geo. IV.) it is enacted, that all petty chap
men or pedlars, wandering abroad, not being
duly authorized by law ; all persons lodging in
the open air, or in barns, carts, &c. and not
giving a good account of themselves ; all persons
placing themselves in the public streets to beg, or
causing any child or children so to do, or endea
vouring by the earposure of wounds or deformi
ties to effect the same purpose, shall be deemed
rogues and vagabonds, and may be committed to
the house of correction for any time not exceed
eng three months, and kept to hard labour during
their imprisonment”.”
* It appears (on referring to the said Act) that the
term of imprisonment (in the cases of such as have been
previously convicted of any of the above-named offences)
is extended from three to twelve, and even to twenty-four
A 2
640839
4
I am not ashamed to avow myself the unfeed
advocate of these rogues and vagabonds, as it
has been thought proper to designate them in this
new Wagrant Act;-an Act which brands mis
fortune with the stigma of crime;—which wrests
from the poor and miserable their natural rights
and scanty privileges, and renders them the ob
jects of persecution and punishment;-an Act
which bids defiance to the mild and equal spirit
of the British constitution, under which it has
hitherto been the peculiar boast of its admirers,
that the poor man enjoys equal protection with
the rich.
I am aware that it is no light thing to call in
question the wisdom and justice of acts of Parlia
ment—the solemn decrees of a national senate—
much less to hold them up to public reprobation.
But if laws are enacted in a Christian country, in
direct opposition to the express letter as well as
spirit of the Christian religion, which the laws
themselves profess to establish—is not every
Christian obliged to protest against such laws?
Our Supreme Lawgiver forbids us, “IN ANY
wise, To oppress or To vex THE Poor AND THE
sTRANGER ;”—commands us to “open our HAND
months—with “the further punishment of whipping at such
times and places as the justices shall, in their discretion,
See fit.”
5
wide. To our Poor BROTHER ;”—to “DEAL out OUR
BREAD To THE HUNGRY ;”—to “BRING THE POOR.
THAT ARE cAST out to our House.” The newVa
grant Act decrees, that characters of this descrip
tion shall be deemed rogues and vagabonds; and,
instead of relief, awards them imprisonment and
punishment. When human and divine com
mands stand thus directly opposed to each other,
to which authority must a Christian submit?—to
that of the human or the divine mandate?
The altered circumstances of the country;-
the great increase of its population;–the reduc
tion of the military and naval establishments;–
the fluctuations of trade;—the substitution of me
chanical for manual labour, have greatly dimi
nished the resources of the poor, and driven mul
titudes to the necessity of living upon depredation
or charity, or of becoming petty chapmen or
pedlars. Into the mysteries of this profession it
requires no long apprenticeship or expensive fees
to be initiated. A very small sum will supply
the poor itinerant with a cheap assortment of
small wares, by the retailing of which he might
obtain a scanty but honest subsistence. Why
should he be robbed of his bread and his humble
independence? Why should he be stigmatized
as a rogue and a vagabond, and subjected to
punishment? What crime has he committed ?
-º-ºººººº
©
6
what offence against good morals or good man
ners? He is not “duly authorized by law.”
But he has no means of procuring the expensive
qualification of an annual license. Five pounds
is as much out of his reach as fifty pounds. His
poverty is his only crime;—his poverty is the
temptation to his persecution;–his poverty gives
impunity to his persecutors. A poor man, when
reduced to the necessity of applying for parochial
relief, forfeits his elective franchise ; conse
quently, he has no representative to plead his
cause. All his natural and political rights lie
open to invasion; and he is stripped of them,
one by one, without the power of resistance, or
even of making his complaint in any quarter
where it will be listened to.
One cannot but be curious to ascertain the real
motive which could induce the British legislature
to take cognizance of a profession so very humble
and harmless as that of petty chapmen or ped
lars. Its meanness and insignificance one might
have imagined would have sheltered it from se
natorial observation —more especially as appli
cations for legislative interposition are so fre
quently silenced by the observation, that such
interposition would be beneath the dignity of
Parliament, and an improper interference with
the liberty of the subject.
7
Noble lords and honourable gentlemen may find
it troublesome to be occasionallysubject to the soli
citations ofvagrant wretchedness; their acute sen
sibility may be too severely shocked by the sight
of human suffering;-by “the earposure of wounds
and deformities.” Poverty and rags, wretched
ness and misery, wounds and deformities, are
certainly unpleasant objects to look upon;–there
is, consequently, some motive for banishing them
out of sight; but what imaginable provocation
can have kindled the ire of the High Court of
Parliament against petty chapmen or pedlars”?
It has been pretended, that the interests of
Tespectable shopkeepers and regular tradesmen
are interfered with by these itinerant merchants;
possibly, the persecution of these petty competi
tors may have originated in the jealousy of some
of these respectable shopkeepers and regular
tradesmen, who, in addition to the solid advan
tages of wealth, have obtained civic honours—
have been inaugurated into some ancient and
loyal corporation—and possess no small influence
in a borough election. Possibly, some honour
* Though the law, which prohibits this description of
persons from pursuing their avocations without an annual
license, is not a new one—it might be considered, in a
great measure, as a dead letter, until its revival, and the
increased rigours attached to it by this new Vagrant Act.
8
£,
able member of the British legislature may have
given his support to the persecution of these poor
itinerants, from a particular sympathy with his
shopkeeping constituents, and an apprehension
that his interest, at the next election, may be
better promoted by conciliating their favour than
by defending the rights of the poor who have no
votes and interest to pledge in return.
But wherever these persecuting measures
against petty chapmen, vagrants, &c. may have
originated, it is inconceivable how they could
possibly have passed a senatorial ordeal without
one individual member having detected and ex
posed their impolicy and injustice—without per
ceiving that they were opening the way to a
system of petty legislation, and petty tyranny, to
which there would be no end.
That a people will always be best governed,
be most prosperous, most virtuous, most happy,
where the legal restrictions and penalties are
fewest, and their wisdom andjustice most obvious;
where the rich and the poor, and all the different
classes and gradations of society are left to feel
their mutual relations and dependance upon each
other:-where the claim to protection, in the view
of humanity, rises in proportion to the weakness
and helplessnessofthe claimant—wherethe highest
prerogative of power is to defend those who have
9
no means of defending themselves—are maxims
so often recognized in the British senate, that it
is inconceivable how propositions so arbitrary and
cruel as those incorporated into this new Vagrant
Act, could have been silently suffered to pass
into a law.
Where were the great abolitionists—the sworn
enemies to slavery and oppression—the detecters
and exposers of petty tyranny—the great popular
advocates—when this instrument of oppression—
this charter for a newly-invented despotism—was
proposed to the House?
This new Wagrant Act is as unjust in its nature
as any which perpetuates slavery, and has much
less argument to plead in its support. The latter
has the strong argument of interest to plead–
the former seems to have originated in the mere
wantonness of cruelty, without any motive for its
exercise;—in the delight of oppression for its own
sake. For, instead of having interest for its sup
port, it is supported at the expense of interest;-
it being very apparent that the poor and destitute
might be effectually relieved at a much less ex
pense than that incurred by their prosecution and
punishment.
But I must retract the assertion that these per
secuting measures have no interest to support
them. There is a class-(unhappily, in point of
10
º,
numbers, no inconsiderable one,)—who have an
interest in them. Informers and pettifoggers
have an interest—a feeling interest—in these new
regulations. The destitute poor have, of late
years, become very numerous ; and the new
Vagrant Act has furnished the means of con
verting them into profitable merchandise.
It is universally admitted that the multiplica
tion of crime, and the crowded state of our
prisons, are principally occasioned by the great
difficulties of furnishing the poor with honest em
ployment. Surely then, instead of inventing a
new catalogue of punishable offences, destitute
of all moral and of all political turpitude, the
wisdom and justice of Parliament would have
been better displayed in softening rather than in
creasing the rigours of law—in removing the
temptations and incentives to crime—in enlarging
rather than contracting the resources of the poor—
in increasing rather than diminishing their facili
ties of living by their own labour, and of keeping
themselves above parochial dependance.
Whenever the poor are the subjects of legisla
tion, it would be well to remember that they were
to our Divine Legislator peculiar objects of com
passion and regard. He made them his chief
associates. His most stupendous miracles were
wrought for their relief and support. He said—
We an
Igers
IleW
late
IlêW
COIl
plica
four
great
tem
ing a
stitute
2, the
have
an in
g the
urging
p00r
facili
eeping
egisla
y were
If com
s chief
2S Wéré
said
II
“Blessed are ye poor; but woe unto you who are
rich, for ye have received your consolation.”
And in the parable of Dives and Lazarus, (of
which it would be well for some friendly monitor
frequently to remind the proud and selfish volup
tuary,)—a poor, diseased beggar—disfigured pro
bably with “wounds and deformities”—is repre
sented as carried by the angels into Abraham's
bosom—whilst the rich man was lifting up his
eyes in torments. -
The spirit of their Lord and Master, respecting
the poor, was conspicuous in the Apostles and
early Christians. In succeeding ages, persons of
the most exalted rank, when they embraced
Christianity, deemed it a privilege and an honour
to distribute, with their own hands, alms to the
poor—to beggars. Even in the ages of popish
usurpation, when the simplicity of Christianity
was lost in worldly pomp and splendour, this
vestige of its pristine benignity still remained;—
the poor were neither forgotten nor neglected—
popes, cardinals, and princes, personally adminis
tered to their necessities: and it is well known
to those at all acquainted with ecclesiastical his
tory, that the admission of tithes into the reformed
churches, and the large benefices conferred on
the higher orders of the clergy, were chiefly with
reference to the relief of the poor. Compassion
12
for the poor aad destitute—a disposition to relieve
their wants—to administer to their comforts—
has, in every age but our own, been held one of
the most honourable and distinguishing evidences
of true religion. The Old Testament abounds
with the most forcible precepts and commands on
this subject.—“Is not this the fast which I have
chosen 2°–" To undo the heavy burdens, and to
let the oppressed go free.”—“Is it not to deal
thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the
poor that are cast out to thine house; and that
thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?”—
“Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself” was
the concise but comprehensive exposition, given
by our Lord, of the whole Jewish law, as it re
garded the duty of man to man:-He declared it
to be one of the two commandments on which
hung “all the law and the prophets.”
But the severe measures of which I complain
are not (it may be said) designed to withhold
relief from the deserving poor, to abridge the
exercise of benevolence, but merely to restrain
its abuse; the rapid increase of imposture and of
crime having imposed an absolute necessity for the
measures in question, which ought, in candour and
justice, to be regarded as wholesome rigours,
salutary preventions of evil;-vagrant, idle, de
pendant habits being highly injurious to the poor
13
themselves, consequently, it is a much greater
kindness to restrain than to encourage them.
A tender anxiety and vigilant care for the
public good, is the stale pretext by which it has
been attempted, in all ages, to justify every kind
and degree of oppression. It is a cloak which
hypocrisy has so long worn, that it is become too
threadbare and tattered to hide her detestable
deformity. The dungeons—the tortures of the
inquisition—the Auto da Fé—all originated, if we
will believe their holy inventors, in zeal for the
public good—in Christian love and tenderness to
the souls of their tortured, immolated victims.
The exterminating wars of the pious Crusa
ders;–the savage cruelties, the atrocious but
cheries, which desolated the populous and fertile
tºA.
valleys of Piedmont;-the massacre of Saint 22,94 2.
Bartholomew, and the fires at Smithfield—all Z-22,
resulted from the self-same pretence of salu
tary rigour, which has been so industriously
at work in new modelling the poor laws:—except,
that our predecessors took a loftier aim—the pro
fessed object of their persecutions and torments
being to secure the eternal rather than the tem
poral interests of their victims. They incarce
rated and tortured and consumed the body, in
order to save their souls!
But we renounce such refined and exalted
-"T
14
policy;-pretend to execrate such tender mer- ſo
cies—and boast of living in an age distinguished ql
above all others, by the most enlightened bene- w
volence—the most diffusive charity—at the very W:
moment that we are enacting laws which would qū
disgrace the darkest ages, and from which the Cri
most savage tribes would revolt.
The fiery zeal of the persecuting religionist lav
had something in it of the sublime.—“He thought tio
that he was doing God service:”—it was to Olli
defend his faith, (false and execrable as it was,)— slig
not his purse, that he had recourse to the impri- IlêV
sonment and torture of his fellow-creatures.— mi
The most savage barbarians restrict the exercise Ifs
- of their vengeance to enemies and captives of T
~\ A war. To the poor and necessitous of their own the
*. tribes—and to strangers, they are hospitable and Nſt
>\ tender-hearted—willing to divide their last meal lio
with them. To
The honour of a crusade against beggars was tha
reserved for England alone!—in the nineteenth pi
century:-after having triumphantly terminated a Bl
twenty years war; subdued her political enemies ºr
at home as well as abroad—secured legitimacy Ag:
and quelled innovation.—It should seem as if • T
her active enterprising genius could not rest— I
and rather than submit to be tame and quiet—to ldſ
have no achievement—no adventure—no enemy, is
15
foreign or domestic, to vanquish;-that her con
quering genius, rather than endure torpid inaction,
will engage in a new kind of civil or domestic
war—such an one as has no precedent in all anti
quity—a war with beggars! an exterminating
crusade against the poor and miserable!
But the subject is too serious for satire. The
laws to which I refer not only tarnish our reputa
tion for humanity—they bring a deep stain on
our justice—blot our Christian profession, and
stigmatize our national character. They form a
new and monstrous, and, before their appearance,
unimaginable birth of evil, without one particle
of softening, qualifying admixture of good.
To reconcile us to the evils of common war,
there is the plea of necessity—of self-defence:—to
soften its horrors, there is the principle of pa
triotism—of honour—it may be, of imagined duty.
To justify the cruel sports of the field and the
chase, their tendency to exhilarate the animal
spirits—to promote health and courage, is pleaded.
But what plea of necessity—of honour–of duty—
or of pleasure, can be urged in favour of this war
against humanity? In what imaginable motive
or principle can it have originated?
It has originated in a change of national cha
racter;-in motives and principles which operate
in a wider circle than that of the British Parlia
16
ment. It was well known that this newly
invented persecution would be palatable out of
the House, before it was proposed in the House.
This persecution of beggars, &c. is in strict
accordance with the fashion of the times, which
discountenances that unobtrusive charity which
suffers not “the left hand to know what the right
hand doeth,”—and tolerates that only by which
the Scribes and Pharisees of old were distin
guished—that which blows a trumpet before it—
and dispenses its liberalities in the market
place ;-that which loves public subscriptions—
“that it may be seen of men”—that its benefi
cence may be admired and recorded.
In motives and principles of action, there is a
prevailing fashion, as well as in dress and man
ners. In one age, fanaticism; in another, infide
lity, is the prevailing fashion:-in one, profusion;
in another, parsimony. By superficial observers,
who look at profession rather than practice—this
has been called the age of Benevolence; of Bene
volence, so ardent and indefatigable—that by some
it has been denominated—“the age of Benevolence
run mad.” A noble poet has more justly styled it—
“the age of Cant:”—but its true, distinguishing
character is a passion for display—fed by rapacity
or COvetousness. -
The munificence recently poured forth, and
17
still flowing in the cause of humanity and religion,
both at home and abroad, (especially in the sister
kingdom,) is indeed altogether unprecedented.
Charity, in a mere mortal form, never disclosed
more ofher heavenly nature to the world, than in
our own times;–never were her varied designs
formed with more wisdom, executed with more
zeal, more self-denying, patient, persevering in
dustry. But when was there ever so loud a call–
so urgent a necessity for these strenuous exer
tions—these labours of love?—When did privation
and wretchedness so extreme, disease and famine,
misery and crime, ever afflict so large a por
tion of civilized and christianized society?—What
has been, what is still the situation of Ireland”?
What has very recently been the state of the
manufacturing and labouring classes in our own
island?—What is it still?—The pressure of want
is indeed in great measure removed from such as
can obtain employment, by the present low price
of the necessaries of life; but when will the habits
of careless dependence, improvidence, and vice,
consequent upon their reeent impoverishment
and degradation to pauperism, be removed?—
When will the sober, frugal, industrious habits of
* Let the Reports of the British and Irish Societies
for improving the condition of the Irish peasantry, answer
the question. - - -
B
18
their forefathers be revived? Charity is, indeed,
munificent and indefatigable;—she is visiting the
habitations of wretchedness and want—penetrat
ing into prisons and dungeons; giving shelter to
the destitute; food to the hungry; clothing to
the naked; instruction to the ignorant; reforma
tion to the criminal;-but she does not, with all
her zeal, with all her resources, with all her nu
merous train of willing and devoted agents;–
she does not relieve and heal, restore and reform
so fast—no, not by a thousandth part, as selfish
ness and luxury—or covetousness—in all its
varied forms of oppression, wastes and spoils,
disorders and desolates. There is but very little
ofthis renovating leaven of charity, compared with
the great unleavened lump of society;-very little
of this moral antiseptic, compared with the great
mass of moral putrefaction. It is not the cha
racter of our own age and country then, that is
humane, and charitable, and beneficent;-this
character belongs only to individuals.
The ambition of rising in the world—the
love of distinction—the rage for gentility—are
become so universal;-our habits of living so
refined—our own wants so numerous—our per
sonal expenses so great—and on a scale so ad
vancing in proportion to the advancing means
of supplying them—that artificial poverty accu
19
mulates with accumulating riches. The demands
of ambition, of vanity, of selfishness, are insatia
ble, consequently there is nothing to spare for the
calls of charity. But the altered circumstances
of the country have occasioned those calls to
become numerous and importunate:—they could
not, in the first instance, be refused without
compunction—without the troublesome goadings
of an accusing conscience. But there is no stand
ing still—there is progression in every thing.—
Every indulged feeling, and principle, and habit—
whether good or bad, is continually increasing.
If, believing the divine declaration, that “it is
more blessed to give than to receive;”—remem
bering, that of our wealth, as of every other
talent, we are only stewards, who must shortly
be summoned before the great Lord of the uni
versal household, to render an account of our
stewardship:—if, viewing our “poor brother”
(however degraded) with fraternal compassion;–
asking ourselves who it is that hath made us to
differ in our intellectual and moral and other
acquisitions?—whether it be so much our own
superior virtue, as our more favoured providential
allotment, which hath placed us so much above
him in the scale ofrespectability and enjoyment?—
we “open our hand wide to our poor brother:”—
we shall gradually acquire a love for the poor;--
B 2
20
we shall experience the fulfilment of the divine
benediction, “Blessed is he that considereth the
poor”—and feel a delightful interest in relieving
their wants—in administering to their comforts.
If covetousness, on the contrary, be suffered
to silence the pleadings of pity;-if we are in the
habit of “shutting up our bowels of compassion
from the poor”—they will gradually become the
jobjects of our aversion;–we shall not only feel
annoyed by their applications, but the very sight
of them will become offensive to us; we shall feel
an increasing antipathy—which will lead—which
has led to their persecution, and if not to their
extermination, at least to the silencing of their
importunities, and the banishing of them out of
sight.—This, the new Vagrant Act has effectually
accomplished.
Covetousness has all the steadiness of a prin
ciple, and all the violence of a passion. It is not,
properly speaking, a simple principle ; it is com
pounded of avarice and ambition. Simple ava
rice is, comparatively, sluggish and harmless;
or, it is rather negatively than positively injurious;
it is more intent to hoard than to accumulate; to
contract than to enlarge its expenditure:—but,
when combined with ambition, it becomes com
bustible, and flames out in the fire of the most
unhallowed devotion:-it then becomes-“Cove
2]
e divine
reth the
lieving
forts,
iffered |
in the |
SSIOIn ,
the
feel
ght
feel
ch
ir
ir
tousness,” which (in the great Apostle's defini
tion)is—Idolatry;-and impels its devotees, bear
ing the Christian name, to an extent and refine
ment in cruelty unknown to mere Pagan idolaters.
Their human sacrifices, and varied acts of bar
barous fanaticism, were comparatively few in
number; the enormities sanctioned by their su
perstition were gross and palpable, and admitted
of pauses and intervals;–but the sacrifices offered
to Covetousness are incessant—no limits can be
set to their extent and variety, or to the inge
nious subtilty with which they are contrived and
executed.
It is generally admitted, that the last fifty years
have teemed with revolutions more extraordinary
in their nature and rapid in succession than any
former period, of the same extent, in modern
history. But the most extraordinary and por
tentous of those revolutions, is that which has
been effected in our national sentiments and
conduct respecting the poor. It may be generally
imagined that the change has been greatly in
their favour—for the delusions and perversions of
the human intellect are endless;–there seem to
be no limits to the extent to which those who
depart from the simple guidance of humanity and
religion, may—“believe a lie.” -
Very ingenious and plausible arguments are
22
advanced to prove the impolicy of laws for keep
ing up the price of labour, and the policy of laws
for keeping up the price of grain;–to prove that
bountiful harvests are national calamities;–to
prove that want and misery are the only effectual
checks to a redundant population, consequently,
that it is mischievous to check their progress;–
to prove the wisdom and humanity of forbid
ding the needy to ask relief, and the affluent to
impart it;-to prove, in effect, the mischief and
absurdity of a practical conformity to the example
and precepts of our supreme Lawgiver and Judge!
But to return. I shall probably be charged with
great inconsistency in representing the prohibitory
laws against Soliciting or communicating alms,
as having originated in covetousness, after having
previously represented the system for the suppres
sion of beggars as much more expensive than that
of relieving them. But it is nothing uncommon to
observe persons so infatuated as to rush, uncon
sciously, into the very situations from which they
are most anxious to escape. The miser's dread
of poverty condemns him to endure its worst
privations, whilst possessed of the most affluent
resources. The eager pursuit of pleasure, often
leads to the severest suffering;-excessive self-in
dulgence, to the sharpest torments.-On the same,
principle, a desire to get rid of the importunities
23
of the poor and the expense of relieving them,
has given rise to a system of persecution which
will take, by constraint, a pound at least, for
every shilling which before was given voluntarily
to the unrestrained solicitations of the poor:—so
much heavier a tax will covetousness, in this case,
impose upon us than charity—in the augmented
demands of the poor rate*, of borough and county
rates, for the expenses of prosecutions—for the
enlargement of prisons, gaol allowance, office
fees, &c. &c.
It has been truly said, that there is nothing
indifferent in human actions—if we are not doing
good by our activity, we are of necessity doing
evil.—This is most especially the case with persons
in authority, who, too frequently, seem to consider
“it essential to their dignity to be constantly doing
something to display their power. How little
seems to be known of the wisdom of being quiet,
of letting authority rest when it can be exercised
to no good purpose. From what a dreadful weight
of responsibility would legislators and magistrates
* It is a curious circumstance that this fund, provided
by the old law for the relief of the destitute, should, by the
provisions of the new law, be appropriated to their perse
cution and punishment—informers and detecters of men
dicants, &c. being authorised to claim their ill-deserved
remuneration out of the poor rate.
24
be relieved;—what a tremendous final reckoning
would they escape, could they be persuaded to
reserve their busy interposition for evident oppor
tunities of doing good—and when they cannot
enlarge the sphere of human happiness and virtue,
to be especially careful not to contract it;-when
they cannot, or will not, administer relief to the
poor and destitute, to resolve, at least, to be
exempt from the crime of aggravating their suf
ferings—of wantonly abridging their scanty inhe
ritance—of “grinding the faces of the poor”.”
Perhaps I ought to apologize for the injurious
supposition that this new Wagrant Act can be the
legitimate offspring of the British legislature.
Some clauses of it, at least, may have been surrep
titiously added, or smuggled through the House;
—as, unhappily, has been the case with certain
modern interpolations and additions to the Penal
Code—making it death, without benefit of clergy,
to rob a turnip field !
Doubtless, many members, in both houses of
Parliament, are utterly ignorant of the oppressive
and barbarous nature of these new enactments;
—they cannot observe their operation;–they know
little of the sordid, unrelenting agents by whom
they are to be executed—still less, of that obscure
* See Buxton's celebrated speech on the Penal Code.
25
and despised class of society on whom their
weight is to fall. I only solicit in their behalf,
that whilst they commit no trespass on thedomains
of the great—no depredation on the property of
the rich—no offence against good morals or good
manners ;-they may be let alone—that they may
be spared the visitations of modern legislation;
—that petty chapmen or pedlars may be suffered
to pursue their humble merchandise unmolested;
—that the poor and destitute may not wantonly be
deprived of the one only privilege of their existence
—the right, when they suffer, to complain—when
pinched with want, to solicit relief;-the laws of
civilized society having precluded them, under
the severest penalties, from satisfying the cravings
of hunger by helping themselves, like the wild
animals and birds of the air.
“But the law (it will be said) has provided
for their relief:” and this is the wretched subter
fuge under which covetousness and inhumanity
perpetually shelter themselves, and endeavour to
justifythe closingtheir ears and theirhearts, aswell
as their hands, against the pleadings of poverty.
Alas ! how has the law provided for the destitute
poor?—or rather, how are its provisions admi
nistered P -
The existence of the poor laws, it is well known,
is almost universally deprecated, by all classes;—
26
by the most enlightened and humane, as well as
the sordid and selfish;-not merely on account of
the heavy tax which they impose, but also on
account of their misapplication and abuse;—their
tendency to degrade the poor and render them
dependent, and to indurate the hearts of the rich
against them. These various objections have
operated conjointly to reduce parochial relief to
the lowest possible rate;—and it is now deemed,
meritorious to place every sort of impediment in
the way of its claimants—to afford no relief where
it can possibly be withheld;—and in manyparishes
to withhold it altogether from such as refuse to
take possession of a workhouse, which is, in fact,
but another namefor a prison, thewretched inmates
of which are often farmed to the lowest bidder,
who is compelled by his hard bargain to secure
his reasonable profits, by curtailing them of all
the comforts and affording them only the meanest
and scantiest necessaries of eacistence. Into these
receptacles of wretchedness, from which comfort is
systematically eaccluded, lest they should become
places of attraction instead of repulsion, the aged
and the helpless,the diseased and the profligate,the
idiot and the lunatic, are promiscuously huddled
together;-locked up, as in a place of punish
ment, and subjected to the control and caprice of
a hard and mercenary task-master. On what
27
\rinciple are the necessitous poor denied the
alternative of soliciting alms, or of taking pos
session of these mansions of misery 2 Where is
the justice, to say nothing of the humanity, of
depriving a fellow-creature, because he is poor
and destitute, of the liberty of locomotion?—of
compelling him, when he is out of employ and
can find no demand for his labour, to take pos
session of a gaol for preferring to subsist on vo
luntary alms rather than on the grudging and
niggardly doles of parish officers and workhouse
masters?
A great philosopher and divine has most justly
and forcibly observed;—“If, as our Saviour has
assured us, it be more blessed to give than to
receive, we ought to look upon those who ask our
alms, as so many friends and benefactors, that
come to exercise our charity, to exalt our virtue,
to help us to a blessedness much greater than our
alms can bestow on them.” -
But, to leave religion out of the question.-In
the eye of reason and justice, the right of the
poor to travel on foot is as great as that of the
rich to travel on horseback or in splendid car
riages;–it is as great as their's to choose and to
change their own residence, and their own occu
pation.—The occupation of a beggar (when he
is either incapacitated for labour or unable to
28
obtain it) has nothing in it either criminal or
disgraceful—which is more than can be said for
many occupations which have the suffrage of
fashion and the sanction of law.
Liberty is one of the dearest of earthly bless
ings;—the enjoyment of it will compensate for
many privations. On this account, the poor,
when they have the means of supplying the wants
of nature, are often much happier than the rich;
the former having a more complete enjoyment of
the blessing of liberty; the latter being frequently
laid under very irksome restraints by the forms of
fashionable society, and by the state and parade
which are deemed essential to greatness. Liberty,
like air and water and all the best blessings of
life, is a cheap enjoyment.—The enjoyments of
the rich, on the contrary, are generally sought
after with eagerness in proportion as they are
expensive and difficult of attainment;-and when
satiated with this sort of enjoyment, they often
find themselves still poor as to the possession of
real happiness, and are not unfrequently known
to express envy at the heartfelt satisfactions, the
cheap-bought, home-born enjoyments of the la
bouring poor. Can it be the workings of this
base passion of envy which renders the rich, in
many instances, so much disposed to invade the
enjoyments of the poor, and to deprive them of
29
their best earthly blessing, that of liberty? The
abuse of power, the proneness to oppress those
who are subject to our control—to play the tyrant
where there is no fear of retaliation—to inflict
suffering where there is no power of resistance,
is perhaps the most general, the most decisive,
and the most odious evidence of a degenerate and
corrupt nature;—and the good of society would
\be much more effectually consulted by laying
restraints upon this propensity, than by the sup
pression of begging,
But although, under the present circumstances
of society, I must assert the right of the destitute
poor to beg, I must at the same time reprobate
that system of policy which has disposed the poor
to beggary;-which leaves the great mass of
society in ignorance and vice;—which provides
for them no instruction, no suitable employment;
which leaves them to subsist by chance or depre
dation; which, in many instances, drives and
compels them to beggary at the very time that it
punishes it as a crime". Wherever beggary is
* The law of settlement, under the present adminis
tration of the poor laws, drives and compels thousands to
beggary.—When a poor family, from sickness, or the
death of its chief supporter, or the loss of employment,
becomes burdensome in a parish where they have no legal
settlement, all relief is withheld as soon as:they are
30
prevalent in an enlightened and opulent and a
Christrian country—certainly, it is both disgrace
ful and criminal—but, both the disgrace and the
crime fall upon the rich and not upon the poor.
Certainly, there ought to be no beggars in a
Christian country—nor will there be any in a well
organized society;-where the higher classes dis
charge their duties to the lower classes there will
be no inducement to beg.
The poor impart the benefits of their bodily
labour, their physical strength, to the rich; the
rich, in their turn, are bound, in justice, to em
ploy their mental labours, their intellectual re
sources, for the protection of the poor. For all
the external comforts, accommodations, refine
capable of removal. No pass is now granted by the magis
trate to give them a legal claim to support from stage to stage
of their (often) long and wearisome pilgrimage. A few
shillings only is given them by the parish officers, on the
commencement of their journey—and if delayed on their
progress by the inclemency of the weather, by weariness
or sickness—their scanty stock of money exhausted—
their clothes (saving a mere covering of their nakedness)
sold off their backs to supply the cravings of hunger—
that resource also expended, and no vagrant office be
within reach—are they not driven and compelled by the
strong necessities of nature to beg? Many distressing
instances of this description have come within the writer's
own knowledge.
31
ments, and luxuries of life, the rich are indebted
to the poor;-from the rich, the poor have a right,
in return, to sympathy and protection;–to such
equitable and humane laws as their varying cir
cumstances and emergencies require. But when
successive mechanical improvements in manufac
tures and in agriculture are adopted, without legal
limitation, so as to depreciate the value of manual
\abour, and, in a great measure, to supersede its
demand—a supernumerary population will be the
inevitable result; and whilst commerce is extended
-—whilst national and individual wealth rapidly
accumulates—the labouring classes will,as rapidly,
become impoverished; and the multitudes thrown
out of employ, must, until fresh channels are
opened for their industry, subsist by charity, by
pauperism, or depredation. To restrain them
from the last-mentioned resource, is the proper
business of law; but, under such circumstances,
to exclude them from the first, is as impolitic as
it is cruel and unjust—impolitic, inasmuch as it
increases rather than diminishes the national bur
thens—cruel, because the law has first permitted
them to be deprived, in many instances, of the
means of subsisting on the produce of their own
industry, by allowing the unlimited substitution
of machinery—unjust, because the poor, under
such circumstances, have the strongest possible
*-
-
32
claim to charity; and because the rich are under
greater obligations to the poor than the poor to
the rich. So thought the late venerable Bishop
Horne. -
“Let not the rich (says he) imagine that what
they give to the poor is thrown away, or given to
those who make no return. Let them not grudge
to bestow part of their wealth on the poor;-they
bestow it on those to whom, under God, they owe
the whole. For what, I beseech you, is the nature
of society? Is it composed only of the noble or
opulent? Did you ever hear of one so composed?
Such a society could not subsist for a week. As
the members of it could not work, neither could
they eat. Of what value were their estates if the
poor did not cultivate them P Of what account
the riches of the nobleman or the gentleman, if
they must want the comforts, the conveniences,
and even the necessaries of life? (All of which
are obtained by the labour and ingenuity of the
poor.) The world depends for subsistence on
the plough, the sickle, and the flail. The rich,
therefore, cannot live without the poor; and they
never support the poor—but the poor have first
supported them.”
* Yes, the same wretched outcasts who, destitute
ofemployment, have been wandering, from place
to place, in quest of a precarious subsistence—
33
whom the law has denominated rogues and vaga
bonds, and punishes with imprisonment, &c. for
soliciting charity—have, whilst there remained
any demand for their labour, exerted it for the
support and accommodation of the rich. If the
law stood aloof, and permitted the labourer and
artisan, by the substitution of mechanical powers,
to be deprived of their wonted resources;–if it
declined to interpose its protection, it might
surely have been expected to decline the interpo
sition of its persecution. But, under existing cir
cumstances, the charity of the rich, on the one
hand, was exposed to too frequent and importu
nate solicitations; and the property of the rich,
on the other hand, (whilst the necessitous and
famishing poor were suffered to roam at large,)
was too much exposed to depredation. The pro
tection of the law, then, it should seem, has been
reserved for the rich alone; and the unoccupied
and supernumerary labourers and artisans, (whom
it appears to have regarded not merely as incum
brances but as nuisances,) it has disposed of by
tethering in workhouses, or immuring in prisons:
not satisfied with restraining the arm of violence,
it has stifled the voice of complaint and supplica
tion—suppressed the pleadings of pity, and closed
the hand of charity - -
All this kind of legislation originates in disre
C
wº
34
gard of the laws, in forgetfulness of the character
of our Divine Legislator, and in unworthy con
ceptions of his creature man;–in an under esti
mation of his nature, and an over estimation of
the adventitious circumstances which create so
much disparity between man and man. He re
ceives no honour because he is the creature of
God, the heir of immortality;-no sympathy and
affection, because he is our brother, the offspring
of the same Parent, the inheritor of the same
nature. Our honour, sympathy, and affection,
are bestowed upon him, not for the claims of his
high original, of fellow-feeling, of close relation
ship, but for those fortuitous advantages and
arbitrary distinctions which fortune or accident
has bestowed upon him. His poverty, his wretch
edness, his ignorance, even his vice, form no ex
ception to the Apostolic injunction—“Honour all
men;” not because they are noble, or rich, or wise,
or even good, but because they are made in the
amage of God, and are probationers for eternity.
Poverty and wretchedness, ignorance and vice,
so far from justifying contempt or persecution,
are each of them additional claims to Christian
sympathy; and their removal or diminution con
stitutes the highest and best employment both
of material and intellectual riches.
But to return to the new Vagrant Act. I do
35
not pretend to enumerate all the evils, or a tithe
of them, which it is calculated to produce; I wish
to notice such only as are most obvious and cer
tain. Among these, is its evident tendency to
blind the public judgment as well as to harden
the public heart. The destitute and miserable
will be banished out of sight;-the inference will
soon be that they have no existence. A false es
timate will be made of the morals of the lower
classes, who will appear to be characterized by
vice rather than poverty. The crowded state of
our prisons will be appealed to in proof of the
growing profligacy of the lower orders. Facts
are said to be stubborn things; and when the
increasing number of prisoners is stated as evi
dence of increasing depravity, the public will not
stop to inquire what are the particular offences
of the respective prisoners; they will not ask how
many are immured within the prison-walls, and
regarded as objects of punishment, who ought,
according to the laws of justice and humanity, to
be the occupants of hospitals rather than of
prisons;–who are objects of commiseration and
relief rather than punishment. - - -
The public mind has been so recently awakened
to the great evil of hiding-places; the abuse of
uncontrolled power; the tyranny and cruelty ex
ercised in places of confinement, by man upon
C 2
36
man, whenever he is exempt from public inspec
tion;–the secrets of the prison-house, when told,
have been so horrific, that laws have been passed
to throw open the doors of mad-houses, gaols,
and houses of correction, to magistrates and other
authorized visitors. But, unfortunately, there is
little constancy in human actions. The progress
of improvement would be rapid and delightful
but for the disposition to retrograde—to do and
to undo—to emancipate and to enslave :-with
one hand to open the doors of the prison—with.
the other to drive multitudes into it. Unfortu
nately, the same legislators who have abolished
foreign slavery, have, by this new Vagrant Act,
established a system of domestic slavery;-the
same legislators who have laid open prisons and
mad-houses to visits of humane inspection, are
driving shoals of their unfortunate fellow-creatures
into prison—who have no madness to render li
berty dangerous, no crimes to render the loss of
it an equitable punishment.
Another enormous evil attending these new
regulations is, the encouragement they afford to
persons of the very worst description;–the pre
mium they bestow on depravity of the lowest
kind;-on the very basest propensities of human
nature;—the bribery they offer not only to hard
heartedness but to cruelty of the most flagitious
37
deseription. A man may become an informer
from motives the most patriotic, the most honour
able and humane. In the enforcement of wise
and salutary laws for the suppression of vice;—in
the detection and fearless exposure of injustice
and cruelty, without respect of persons;–he may
become an informer from motives, not only purely
disinterested but magnanimous—at the expense
and sacrifice of his own interest and reputation.
But a common informer—one who seeks his own
gain at another's expense—who, from motives of
sordid interest, becomes a tale-bearer and spy
upon his neighbour—has always been held in de
served contempt ; but the man who, from such
motives, becomes the betrayer of the friendless
and the destitute—who, for the paltry bribe of
five-shillings, becomes the instrument of com
mitting a poor, starving fellow-creature to prison—
deserves the public eacecration as well as con
tempt. Yet such are the characters which the
new Vagrant Act encourages, and fosters, by
rewards, though they are, of all others, the most
worthless and despicable. Under sueh a system
of training, the country may soon be overrun
with bravos and assassins—with men who live by
crime—who make a profession of it—who may be
hired and bribed to the commission of any enor
mity.
38
Another formidable evil resulting from these
new Vagrant Laws, is the wide stretch of discre
tionary power conferred upon the magistracy;
who are, thereby, authorized “to inflict the fur
ther punishment of whipping, at such times and
places as they, in their discretion, shall think fit,”
in addition to twelve months' imprisonment and
hard labour upon such as shall be adjudged in
corrigible rogues—(that is, upon such as shall
have been before convicted of an act of vagrancy,
&c.;) “and in case any such person shall have
been before adjudged an incorrigible rogue; for
a term of imprisonment and hard labour, not ex
ceeding two years, and the further correction of
whipping aforesaid, if the said justices, in their
discretion, shall think fit.”
Now of what description are the characters to
whom this discretionary power is committed to
imprison their fellow-creatures for solicitingalms—
for being houseless, destitute, &c.—for the term
of twelve or twenty-four months;–to sentence to
hard labour, scanty fare, and the further punish
ment of lacerating their bodies by whipping, at
such times and places, as they, in their discretion,
shall see fit. I know that it has been the fashion
to daub them over with adulation;-to represent
them as the disinterested, the enlightened guar
dians of the public peace;—the patriotic, the
39
honourable, the unpaid administrators of public
justice. My own personal knowledge of the
body is, I confess, very circumscribed ; confined
to a few distinguished exceptions to their general
character, which, in the public estimation, is not
remarkable either for that intellectual or moral
superiority, which ought, in common sense and
common justice, to distinguish those who are ap
pointed to sit in judgment upon others. What
was the language of our Divine Legislator to the
officious accusers and condemners of other per
sons' offences?—“Let him that is without sin
among you cast the first stone.” It is true, in
deed, that the magistracy are themselves exempt
from some of the offences, which they have the
power to punish with so much rigour on the
poor:-they are exempt, because they have no
temptation to them. They can live and “fare
sumptuously every day,” without the necessity
either of begging or of digging;-they have no
temptation to quit their commodious habitations
and beds of down for a lodging in “the open air,
barns, outhouses, carts, or waggons.” From
some of the offences, proscribed by this new
Wagrant Act, the magistracy are exempt—not
from all;-for “entertainments of the stage—
and playing or betting at unlawful games”—are
also proscribed by it. “All stage-players, not.
40
duly authorized by law, are (by its direction)
“to be considered as rogues and vagabonds, and
dealt with accordingly.” Now, if any credit is
due to common report, both magistrates and le
gislators are not only encouragers of stage enter
tainments, but are also observed to bet at horse
races, and cockpits, and pugilistic exhibitions;
such betting, then, must of course be lawful. It
is natural to enquire, what is the intrinsic dif
ference between lawful and unlawful games 2
There ought, one should imagine, to be some
broad, moral distinction between such games as
magistrates and legislators may engage in with
impunity, and such as have penalties so very
serious attached to them as twelve or twenty-four
months' imprisonment, and “the further punish
ment of whipping, at such times and places as the
justices, in their discretion, shall see fit.”
The late Mr. Wyndham, whose powerful elo
quence was not always consecrated to the cause
of humanity, had yet the justice and manliness
to declare (on the motion of Lord Erskine for a
bill to protect animals from cruelty) that, whilst
honourable legislators not only freely indulge
themselves in the cruel sports of the field and the
chase, but also enact severe penalties upon the
interference with such sports, by the unlicensed
killing of game, &c.—they, the honourable legis
4]
lators, could not, in justice, in conscience, or in
decency, interfere with the sports of the poor, and
prohibit their bull-baitings, bear-baitings, &c.
On the same principle, this able and honest legis
lator would, no doubt, have exposed and repro
bated the abominable injustice and hypocrisy of
condemning “common stage-players,”—who ex
hibit for the amusement of the lower orders—as
rogues and vagabonds—to imprisonment, hard
labour, &c.; whilst stage-players, who exhibit
for the amusement of the higher orders, are not
only tolerated but caressed, and even admitted,
on terms of equality, to the tables of magistrates
and legislators. Is it that the morals of the latter
description of stage-players are more unimpeach
able, or their exhibitions less offensive to de
corum than those of the latter? I have never
understood that this was, by any means, the case.
But this arbitrary prohibition of the amuse
ments of the poor, and unlimited license of those
of the rich, has probably originated in that cele
brated maxim of a late distinguished orator*, viz.
that “the vices of the great lose half their enor
mity by losing all their grossness;”—though a
more insidious, false, and dangerous maxim was
never broached. Every impartial moralist must
* Mr. Burke.
D
42
give a quite contrary decision: vice, when ex
hibited in its native grossness and deformity,
having a direct tendency to deter rather than
attract the uninitiated; whereas Vice, ingeniously
varnished over, artfully and elegantly embellished,
may often betray the incautious, unawares, into
her toils.
But to return to the magistrates, those chosen
depositories ofso much discretionary and arbitrary
power; the great body of whom (admitting that
there are most honourable exceptions) are, in
common estimation, more distinguished by wealth
and political orthodoxy, than by any super-emi
ment wisdom or virtue.
But what sort of a capacity for the administra
tion of justice does wealth confer? Its natural
tendency (when uncontrolled by the benign influ
ence of religion) is to fill the mind with vanity
and selfishness—to corrupt and harden the heart—
to inflate it with pride and arrogance—with the
love of power and domination—to extinguish all
sympathy with the poor—to teach its possessors
to regard them not as fellow-creatures and bre
thren—children of the same impartial Parent,
“with whom there is no respect of persons;”—
whose paternal regard extends equally to the
beggar and the monarch;-the bounties of whose
providence are designed for the general good of
the un
inferior
control,
when t
poses, a
at lengt
That
some of
propens
the exer
limits, a
to excee
their p
where i
of refor
females,
infixes i
racter i.
quences
rigouri
game la
injustic
many o
disgrac
parent i
of some
duties;-
abuses
43
the universal family; but as creatures of an
inferior order, designed to be subject to their
control, subservient to their convenience; who,
when they become too numerous for these pur
poses, are regarded as unwelcome intruders, and,
at length, as nuisances.
That magistrates are not wholly exempt from
some of these dispositions is too apparent by the
propensity, not unfrequently manifested, to stretch
the exercise of their power to the utmost possible
limits, and instead of moderating, in many cases
to exceed the rigours of law. It is too evident by
their prompt commitments for trivial offences,
where imprisonment is certain to vitiate instead
of reform the offender—especially in the case of
females, where the stigma which imprisonment
infixes is never erased, and where the loss of cha
racter is attended with the most ruinous conse
quences. It is too evident by their unrelenting
rigour in the punishment of offenders against the
game laws, which, on account of their flagrant
injustice and cruelty, have been denounced by
many of our most distinguished legislators as a
disgrace to any civilized country. It is too ap
parent in their general supineness in the discharge
of some of the most important of their official
duties;–in their backwardness to investigate
abuses in their subordinate agents;–their total
-
--
44
neglect, or very superficial discharge of the im
portant duty of personal inspection of prisons ;-
their indifference to the moral discipline and re
formation of the prisoners;–their often unsuita
ble appointments to the office of gaoler and gaol
chaplain;–by which their antipathy is manifest
to any thing approaching to what is called
methodism—or serious religion—the only radical
reformer of criminals, both in and out of prison.
To conclude—“wealth is power”—and power
is truly said to be one of the most dangerous and
corrupting of human possessions;–and when the
authority of office is superadded, it becomes
power of that kind and degree, which, for the
general good of society, requires the most watch
ful jealousy—the strictest limitations. It is there
fore devoutly to be wished, that the power of the
magistrate should be so precisely defined, that
as little as possible may be left to his discretion—
and that he may have—none whatever—to inflict
“the further punishment of whipping, at such
times and places as he shall see fit” in addition
to the serious penalty of twelve, or twenty-four
months' imprisonment, upon petty chapmen or
pedlars—starving beggars—houseless wanderers,
&c. &c.
FINIS.
tiye and Balne, Printers, 38, Gracechurch Street.
