{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 1489","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n65_dec_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N65 December 1889","mylang":"de"}
No. LXY.-VoJ.. IY. DECEMBER, 1889.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
New Members and AAAociat63
Meetings of the Council
CONTENTS.
General Meeting . . . . . . . .
An Interesting Case of Planchette Writing
Cases Received by the Literary Committee
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
LAYGLEY, S. P., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.A.
LO~IBnoso, PROFESSOR C., 43, Corso Oporto, Turin, Italy.
MEMBERS.
BRAMWELL, JOHN MILNE, M.B., Goole,Yorkshire.
PAGE
.. 169
.. 169
.. 171
.. 174
.. 179
COLES, DONALD A., M.D.,SydneyHouse, Sutton Court-road, Chiswick,'V.
HUTCHINSON, FREDERICK W. H., B.A., 1, Emmanuel-road, Cambridge.
WISDEN, THOMAS FAULCONER M., Broadwater, near Worthing.
NELSON, REV. GEORGE, LL.D., 20, King Edward-street, Lambeth-road,
S.E.
ASSOCIATES.
BARTHOLOMEW, COLONEL, Bantry Lodge, Glengariff, Co. Cork.
BOLDERO, LIEUT.-GENERAL GEORGE N., 20, Westbourne-gardens.
Folkestone.
GORING, LADY, Strettington, Chichester.
HOWARD, HARRY W., Maitland House, Greenwich, S.E.
LANCASTER, ERNEST LE C., l\-I.B., St. George's Hospital, S:W.
Mm,TEAGLE, THE LORD, K.P.,17A, Onslow-gardens, London, S.'Y.
MONTGOMERY, MRS., 9, Hartley-road, Exmouth.
MORDAN, MISS C. E., 15, Queen-square, W.C.
NOAKES, DAVID W., Ernest Cottage, Peyton-place, Royal Hill,
Greenwich, S.E.
SCHRAM, MISS LILIAN M.E., 178, Earl's Court-road, S."-.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
Meetings of the Council were held on November 1st and 29th.
The President occupied the chair on both occasions. The following
members were also present at one or both Meetings :-Dr. A. T. Myers,
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Resem"ch. [Dec., 1889.
and Messrs. T. Barkworth, Walter Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, Frank
Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, H. Babington Smith, and R. Pearsall
Smith.
The Meeting on November 1st was summoned to consider a pro-
posal which had been received from the American Society for Psychical
Research, by which it would become a branch of the English Society
for Psychical Research, under special conditions as to subscription and
privileges. After full discussion it was agreed that the general scope
of the proposal should be accepted for one year, the exact form of local
government of the Branch to be determined later. Mr. F. W. H.
Myers was authorised to write to the Secretary of the American Society·
for Psychical Research to this effect.
At the Council Meeting on the 29th of November, Professor C.
Lombroso, of Turin, was elected ~ a Corresponding Member, and an
acceptance of that position was read from Mr. S. P. Langley, of Wash-
ington, who had previously been so nominated, subject to his consent.
Five new Members and ten new Associates, whose names and addresses
are given above, were also elected.
Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Professor W. James, and Mr.
S. P. Langley were, subject to their consent, elected as Vice-Presidents
of the Society. Under the proposed arrangements with the American
Society for Psychical Research it was felt that it would be of
advantage for the Society to be thus represented in the United States.
Several matters relating to the arrangements with the American
Society for Psychical Research received further consideration. It is
hoped that the plan will be complete to lay before the Society at the
Annual Meeting in January.
It was agreed that the Meetings on the 31st of January, to be held
at the Westminster Town Hall, should be arranged thus:-The Annual
Business Meeting at 3 p.m., the General Meeting at 4 p.m., tea and
coffee being provided at its close. Should there be time, the Council
will meet at the close of the Business Meeting; if otherwise, after the
conclusion of the General Meeting.
A present to the Library was received with thanks from Mr. R.
Pearsall Smith.
Various matters of routine business were attended to, and it was
fixed that the next Meeting of the Council should be on Friday, the
3rd of January, at 4:30 p.m.
ERRATUM.-By a typographical error in the last number of the
Journal, the donation which was acknowledged was attributed to
"Mr. Myers," instead of to Mrs. Myers (of Brandon House, Chel-
tenham).
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1889.] Jotwnal Of Society f01' Psychical Research. 171
GENERAL MEETING.
A Genernl Meeting was held at the Westminster Town Hall, on
Friday, November 29th, at 8.30 p.m., the President, Professor Sidg-
wick, in the chair.
MRS. SIDGWICK gave an n.ccount of some experiments in thought-
transference with four different percipients in the hypnotic trance, Mr.
O. A. Smith, who hypnotised them, being the agent. A full account
of these will appear in the next number of the Proceeding,.
MR. PODllORE then read part of a paper on "Phantasms of the
Dead."
He began by pointing out that though tha crudely materialistio
theory of ghosts had gradually fallen into disrepute, most, certainly, of
the contributors to the Society's collection of Phantasms of the Dead
held that the "ghost"of "haunted" houses showed intelligence,and was
in some way connected with a deceased person. Four kinds of evidence
mainly were relied upon in support of this position, viz.: (1) The
recognition of the phantasm from personal description, pictures,
clothing, &c. (2) The manifestation of a purpose by the phantasm, and
the furnishing of information outside the knowledge of the percipient.
(3) The connection of the phantasm with human remains, or (4) with 80
past tragedy. He proceeded to show, by a critical scrutiny of the
cases included in the Society's records, that all four kinds of evidence
occur commonly amongst second-hand narratives,and generally amongst
narratives evidentially weak; but are very rarely found in well authen-
ticated first-hand records. From which he inferred that the occurrence
of these features is due generally, if not invariably, to the operation of
the preconceived ideas of the narrator.
Moreover, there are certain constantly recurring characteristics
amongst the better attested narratives hard to reconcile with the
attribution of the phantasms to the agency of deceased human beings.
Such are (1) the constant occurrence of many wholly different appari-
tions in the same house, and the extreme difficulty of establishing any
~lose similarity between any two appearances. (2) The occurrence
of apparitions of animals and of inanimate objects. (3) The frequent
tendency amongst the percipients to unshared and apparently non-
veridiCal hallucinations.
All these points suggest that so-called phantasms of the dead are
really casual hallucinations, engendered by some condition of the per-
~ipient. That condition, he contended,would frequently be found in the
vague alarm arising from inexplicable sounds, which are frequently
shown to precede the occurrence of apparitions in 80 "haunted"
house.
Digitized by Google
172 Journal 0/ Society /01' Psychical Resea?'ch. [Dec., 1889.
It was further suggested that the resemblance between apparitions in
the same locality to different witnesses, where not due to the action of
expectancy or hints unconsciously given, or to the subsequent assimila-
tion by comparison of experiences originally diverse, may possibly be
attributed to the action of thought-transference.
Several stories were given to illustrate the argument, and in par-
ticular toe accounts of the two "haunted" houses recently advertised
in the Journal/and in which a considerable number of Members and
Associates and their friends have slept, though without seeing anything
peculiar.
THE PRESIDENT, in opening the discussion on Mr. Podmore's paper,
said that no one had a better right than Mr. Podmore to form a theory
of his own on this subject, for no one had spent more time and trouble
in the careful and impartial collection of the facts on which his theory
was based. At the same time he felt that it ought to be made clear
that the responsibility for the theory rested with Mr. Podmore alone,
and that it was in no sense the theory of the Society.
MR. F. W. HAYES had two questions to ask about the paper just
read. First, what grounds were there for assuming that the variety
of apparitions seen in some houses was an indication that they were
subjective in origin; why should not several different ghosts haunt a
house 1 Secondly, if expectancy were really a cause of hallucination,
why did the things seen vary 1 A particular appearance being ex-
pected, and that state of expectancy being liable to produce a hallucina-
tion, it was reasonable to suppose that the hallucination would take the
form of the expected appearance and not a different form.
MR. IN. B. YEATS said that the materialistic theory of apparitions
was by no means dead. It might be a thing of the past among those
who were in the habit of attending lectures, but he believed some
audiences would be surprised to find among equally intelligent people
who did not go to lectures, how many still held it. The fact was, he
thought, that those who investigated these subjects, and scientific men
generally, had singularly little humility. He had himself gone to
work in what he supposed would be called It medireval way, and had
collected the theories and stories of peasants in the West of Ireland,
and had found their theories very coherent. Moreover, there was a
universal agreement in the folk-lore of different countries and ages.
Mr. Podmore had seemed.to assume in his paper that apparitions were
always connected with human beings, dead or living. But in Ireland
many kinds were believed in, including fairies, animals, &c. Ghosts of
dead or murdered persons were quite in a minority. Mr. Podmore
had said that for the possibility of collective hallucinations we had no
evidence except the facts under discussion. But accounts of collective
Dec., 1889.] Journal 0/ Society /01' Psychical Re8ea-rch. 173
experiences were common among the peasantry, and their theory was
that objective realities took a subjective form. The things themselves
were on a plane which we do not reach with our ordinary senses and
had to be translated into the language of sense-the result was like a
blind man, in attempting to describe colour, saying that crimson was
like the sound of a trumpet. In former days people said, Vox populi
vox Dei, but quite the reverse seemed to be the view of the lecture
rooms. He thought, however, that popular tradition should be accepted
with all humility. Ideas could hardly have descended through all ages
without having some truth in them.
MR. C. G. HARRISON wished to return to two of the cases mentioned
by Mr Podmore, which he would call the Knightsbridge case and the
B--- case. With regard to the latter he had been carefully through
the evidence and thought that two things mentioned by Mr. Podmore,
the presence of cats and of doves in the house, would go far to account
for the facts. As to the Knightsbridge house, he remembered that in the
original report a certain table said to have been used for spirit-rapping,
was mentioned as having been in the landlady's room. He would like
to know whether, when members of the Society slept in the house, the
table was there, or had been removed. It would be interesting to know
whether the removal of the table had anything to do with the cessation
of the phenomena.
MR. HANSEN asked what noises were heard when the B--- house
was occupied by members of the Society.
ANOTHER SPEAKER had failed to gather what Mr. Podmore's view of
apparitions was. He seemed to infer from the falsity of certain cases
that other well-evidenced cases containing similar characteristics were
false too, which was not, the speaker thought, sound reasoning. He
asked whether Mr. Podmore could account for the sounds at the :Urighton
house, and whether the percipients in that case had had hallucinations
elsewhere.
COLONEL TAYLOR asked why, if apparitions were due to subjective
hallucination produced by expectation, they did so genemlly take
the form of human beings, and not rather of the fairies and demons of
our childhood, or forms purely grotesque.
MR. BARKWORTH, supporting the last speaker, pointed out that in
cases unquestionably su jective, like t.hose of delirium tremens, the
hallucinations do take these fanciful forms. He could not now follow
the reader of the paper through his clear and detailed account, but he
thought it a sound rule to adopt that the same kind of evidence which
wottld prove unusual, though normal occurrences, such as crimes and
accidents, would prove apparitions, unless we set out with a prejudice
1I.gainst them.
Digitized by Google
174 JO'IJ/I"¥UU of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec., 1889.
MR. PODMORE, in reply to Mr. Hayes, pointed out that the main
ground for supposing the hallucinatory figures seen in a "haunted ,.
house to have some objective basis lies in their alleged resemblance.
If the apparitions are admittedly dissimilar, it becomes, of course, more
probable that they belong to the well-known and not very rare class of
casual hallucinations. .Ai!. regards the second question, expectancy, he
pointed out, could only operate to produce an apparition resembling
one previously seen if full details of the first appearance were known,
which was not always the case.
In answer to Mr. Yeats, Mr. Podmore said he preferred the evidence
of educated to that of uneducated persons: and he would not, as a rule.
choose to base a scientific theory of ghosts on folk-lore and the fairy
tales current amongst peasantry.
In answer to Mr. Harrison, he pointed out that the cats and doves
referred to had not generated apparitions elsewhere; and the sounds
in the B--- house were not, he thought, fairly attributable to their
agency. He could give no information as to the presence of the table
referred to, nor could he venture an opinion as to the part played by it
in producing the phenomena in the Knightsbridge house.
With regard to the alleged fallacy pointed out by another speaker.
Mr.Podmore restated his argument as follows: We know by experience
that some, even amongst first-hand ghost stories, are exaggerated and
embellished. From certain features being found frequently in second-
~nd, but very rarely in first-hand stories, we are entitled to infer that
these features have been imported into the second-hand narratives by
the imagination of the narrators; and there is a reasonable probability
that their appearance in the first-hand accounts may be due to the
same cause.
In reply to the last two speakers, Mr. Podmore pointed out that we
were not dealing with persons suffering from delirium trem.ens, and that
it has been well established that a large proportion of the hallucinations
seen by sane and healthy persons resemble the human form.
AN INTERESTING CASE OF PLANCHETTE-WRITING.
By MR. HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD.
Whenever I have an opportunity,perhaps once or twice a year,Isit at
planchette-writing with my friend whom I will call Mrs. R., a most
observant witness in whom I have entire confidence. We sit opposite·
each other at a small table, each resting the fingers of one hand lightly
upon the board, and when the board begins to move, allow our hand
to follow the movement freely without interfering with it in any way.
The following account of our last sitting, on June 26th, is from the
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1889.] JOU1"Ual Of Society for Psychical Research. 175
journal of Mrs. R., written the same evening, transcribing the part of
planchette from the actual writing, and filling in our own share of the
investigation from immediate memory.
Extract from journ.al of Wednesday, June 26th, 1889, and copy of plan-
chette-1critil"!J with Mr. Wedgwood:-
" A sphit is here to-day who we think will be able to write through the
medium. Hold very steady, and he will try first to draw."
We turned the page and a sketch was made, rudely enough of course,
but with much apparent care.l
"Very sorry can't do better. Was meant for test. Muat write for you
instead.-J. G."
We did not fully understand the first drawing, taking it for two arma and
hands elapsed, one coming down from above. Mr. Wedgwood asked tIle
spirit of J. G. to try again, which he did.1
Below the drawing he wrote: "Now look." We did, and this time com-
prehended the arm and sword.
.. Now I will write for you if you like."
Mr. W. : "What did the drawing represent? "
"Something that was given me."
I said: "Are you a man or a woman? "
"Man. JohnG."
Mr. W. : "How was it given to you 1"
"On paper and other things. . My head is bad from the old'
wound I got there when I try to write through mediuma."
Mr. W. : ' , We don't know J. G. Have you anything to do with us 1"
,, No connection."
Mr. W. said he knew a J. Giffard, and wondered if that was the
name.
•, Not Giffard. Gurwood."
Mr. W. suggested that he had been killed in storming some fort.
"I killed myself on Christmas Day, years ago. I wish I had died
:fighting."
" Were you a soldier1"
"I was in the army."
" Can you say what rank? "
"No.. . It was the pen did for me, and not the sword."
The word pen was imperfectly written, and I thought it was meant for fall.
I asked if this was right '/
"No."
Mr. W. : "Is the word pej~ ? ..
" Yes; pen did for me."
We suggested that he was an author who had failed, or had been
maligned.
" I did not fail. I was not slandered. Too much for me after .
pen was too much for me after the wound."
1 These sketches were sent with the account, but are too large to be reproduced
here. }'or evidential purposes, Mr. Wedgwood's sketch, made before he had ascer·
tained what Colonel Gurwood's crest was, and which is given below, is Buflicient.-En.
Digitized by Google
176 Journal of Society for Psych'ical Reseal'clL. [Dec., 1889.
" Where were you wounded, a.nd when did you die 1"
" Peninsula to first question."
We were not sure about the word Peninsula, and asked him to repeat.
"I waswounded in the head in Peninsula. It will be forty-four years next
Christmas Day since I killed myself. Oh, my head.. . . • I killed my-
self. .John Gurwood."
" Where did you die 1"
" I had my wound in 1810. I cannot tell you more about myself. The
drawing was a test."
We asked if the device was intended for his crest.
"I had it seal."
" Had it anything to do with your wound 1" (I cannot remember the exact
form ofthis question.)
"It came from that and was given me. Power fails to explain. Remem-
ber my name. Stop now."
The only person besides ourselves present at the sitting was Miss
H., an aunt of Mrs. R.'s, and none of us knew anything of Colonel Gur-
wood beyond the fact of his having edited the despatches of the Duke,
of Wellington, not even that his name was John. It is possible that I
might have heard of his suicide at the time that it occurred, without
its making any impression on me, but I am sure I did not read such an
obituary notice as would be published in the Til/tes, and when my
attention was directed to his editorial work 18 or 20 years
afterwards I did not know whether he was alive or dead, and was
entirely ignorant of his military career. I never read any history of
the Peninsular War, and am perfectly certain that I never had an
opportunity of seeing Gurwood's crest, or knowing anything about it.
When I came to verify the message of planchette I speedily found
that Colonel Gurwood,the editor of the Duke's despatches, led the forlorn
hope atthestorming of Ciudad Rodrigo, in 1812,1 "and received a wound
in the skull from a musket ball which affected him for the remainder of
his life."-Annual Register, 1845. In recognition of the bravery shown
on that occasion he received a grant of arms in 1812, registered in the
College of Arms as having been passed "upon the narrative that he,
Captain G., had led the forlorn hope at Ciudad Rodrigo, and that, after
the storming of the fortress, the Earl of Wellington presented him with
the sword of the Governor who had been taken prisoner by Captain
Gurwood.''2
The services thus specified were symbolised in the crest, "Out of a
mural coronet, a castle ruined in the centre, and therefrom an arm in
armour embowed, holding a scimitar."3
1 Planchette seems to have followed lthe Clnweraations·Lexicon, which places th
storming of Ciudad Rodrigo in 1810.
S Information received from the College of Arms, July 15th, 1889.
3 The Book qf Fafl'Uy Crem, Washboume, 1856.
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1·ch. 177
It is plainly t.his crest that is aimed at by planchette in his very
rude design, which represents the arm and sword as issuing from the
mural coronet alone, omitting the ruined castle as too complex a subject
for the powers of the designer. The drawing was given merely as a
test, and if it pointed unmistakeably to the Gurwood crest it would fulfil
its purpose.
In accordance with the assertion of planchette, Colonel Gurwood
killed himself on Christmas Day, 1845, and the Annual Register of that
year, after narrating the suicide, continues: "It is thought that this
laborious undertaking (the editing the despatches) produced a relaxation
of the nervous system and consequent depression of spirits. In a fit of
despondency the unfortunate gentleman t.erminated his life." Compare
planchette: "-- Pen was too much for me aft.er the wound."
The following is the account Mr. Wedgwood wrote of the first
seance at the time :-
J1!lte 26th, 1889.
Had a sitting at planchette with Mrs. R. this morning. P. said
there was a spirit there who thought he could draw if we wished it. We said
we should be glad if he would try. Accordingly P. made a rude attempt at a
hand and arm proceeding from an embattled wall and holding a sword. A
second attempt made the subject clearer. P. said it was meant for a test.
The spirit signed it" J. G.," no connection of any of ours, he said. We
gradually elicited that his name was John Gurwood, who was wounded in the
Peninsula in 1810, and killed himself on Christmas Day, 1845. It was not
the wound, but the pen that did it.
Something like that.
JUly 5th, 1889.
I made the foregoing memorandum the sallle day, having very little ex-
pectation that there would be any verification. H. WEDGWOOD.
FURTHER EXTRACTS FROlI MRS. R.'s JOURNAL.
Friday, September 27th.
Mr. Wedgwood came, and we had two sittings in the afternoon and even-
ing. I think the same spirit wrote throughout, beginning without signature;
but when we asked the name, writing (after some struggle a.nd illegibility)
"John Gurwood."
Digitized by Google
1'18 JoU/rnal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Dec., 1889.
The effort was at first incoherent, bnt developed into the following sen-
tences :-
" Sword-when I broke in. on the table with plan of fortress-belonged
to my prisoner; I will tell you his name to-night. It was on the table when
I broke in. He did not expect me; I took him unawares. He was in his
room, looking at a plan, and the sword was on the table. Will try and let
you know how I took the sword to-night."
In the evening after dinner.
" I fought my way in. His name was Banier" (three times repeated)_
"The sword was lying on the table by a written scheme of defence. Oh, my
head. Banier had a plan written out for the defence of the fortreaa. It was
lying on the table, and his sword was by it."
To a question :--
"Yel; surprised him."
Mr. Wedgwood thinks the name of the Governorof the fortreaa of Ciudad
Rodrigo w<u Banier; but he aays tbil would not be a test, as lie 1.'fIe10 it. He
is going to see if he can find anything in Napier's Pellins"lar W(U" corrobora-
tive of what is aaid about the sword.
" Look. I have tried to tell you what you can verify."
Mr. W. : "Can you tell me where else to look 1"
"I have no power to direct you. We have exhausted, but I wished to tell
you about poor Quentain . • . to tell you a secret of poor Quintain's, which
is on my mind. It might once have made a difference; but not now."
We had a difficulty in reading the llame. Mr. W. thought it Quinlon,
and asked if tbis was right 1
"Not quite: a t. . • . Quentain. Not quite [right],but nelU"er: try
again to-morrow."
Mr. W. : "Is power exhausted now, alld shall we stop 1"
" Yes."
Saturday, &ptembe,' 28t".
Mr. Wedgwood and I sat again this momin@. First came some pre-
liminary scribbling and circling, and then the right spelling of the name at
which John Gurwood was trying last night.
" Quentin. I knew him, and a secret of his that might have made a
difference, but I was pledged."
Mr. W. : "Tell UB what the secret was 1"
" I should like to try."
Mr. W. : "What difference would it have made to yOU!"
"Might have done to him: on my mind."
Then followed a word here and there among much that was illegible. I
copy what we succeeded in reading. "-- in the army -- scrape --
the sake of another -- very foolish, but nothing -- wrong -- for
verdict -- was unfortunately -- what there was let me go on, I am
trying -- say that, but quite mistaken -- caae in all ita --bis com-
mission -- of second (company 1) private soldier going out gave to bis
Colonel very strong feeling about it all...
The above filled four pages. We pondered over it, but could not
make out any more. When planchette was put back, the following was
volunteered:-
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1889.] Jowrnal oj &ciety jm' Psychical Reaea'l'ch. 179
"Tell James I remember him quite well. He will recollect about Quen.
tin's trial."
Mr. Wedgwood's friend, Captain James, of course, Wall meant. Mr. W.
said he would write and ask him; but did the writer mean that CRptain
James knew the secret 1
" Noone knew it." (Two lines illegible.) " James will tell you, I hlwe
not power. He was tried by court martial."
Mr. W.: "Thia Quentin Wall in the anny then 1"
"Yes. --rest of them would have--but--I cannot write lllainly in
anawer, though I try. I wanted to tell you about poor Quentin, but have
not power without further practice. I knew a secret of his at the time of
hia scrape---conduct--oflices--. The--court martial--I did not."
Mr. Wedgwood here suggested we should stop for a time, to see if rest
would increase the power. We sat again for a few minutes before lunch.
directly after which he left by train; but the control 11'&8 then different, and
the few words written did not appear to have any special interest 01'
meaning.
Mr. Wedgwood writes on October 31st, 1889:-
I find that there Wall a famous court martial on Colonel Quentin in
October, 1814, in consequence of a round robin signed by 24 of his officers.
I had a vague recollection of the name of Colonel Q.&8 a friend of George IV.•
and BOmething must have turned up about the courtmart.ial in the early twen-
ties when the 10th Hussars became notorious, &8 I found I had heard of the
round robin. The accusation, too, Wall of a want of proper directions to his
subordinates in action, BO no reticence of anybody could have made any
difference, and he Wall himself the Colonel of the regiment.
With respect to the capture of Banier, the only chance of verification
would be from the family, and Mias Gurwood h&8 not a1lswered my letter.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COM~nTTEE.
L. 831. AU po
We have receivef'l the following account of an apparently tele-
pathic impression from the Re\,. A. T. Fryer, who writes on April
19th, 1889:-
I know the two persons who have written the enclosed. I have seen the
envelopes and they bear the dates, February 13th and February 15th, 1889,
posted January 31st and February 4th respectiYely, &8 shown by post marks.
I CAD vouch for the truth telling capacities of the percipient and her
mother.
E. M.'s NARRATIVE.
Very early on Sunday morning, Februsry 3rd, when halfasleep, halfawake,
I became vaguely COnsciOUB that a gentleman I know living in America 11'&8.
trying to influence me in BOme way. This feeling at once thoroughly woke
me up, and I seemed to know that Mr. --- Wall thinking of me at that
time, and that he 11'&8 lending me a proposal.
VarioUB circumstances made this most unlikely, one being the fact that I
believed him either to be engaged, or on the ~oint of beillg engaged to an
American lady. So I tried to go to sleep aga11l, and did all I could not to
think of the impr8B8ion I had received. But it Wall no nBe, a stronger will
than mine kept forcing my thoughts to America, and I felt certain 1\ lettel"
waacoming.
For 13 days and nights this conviction leemed ever present with me-
try as I would not to dwell upon it.
Digitized by Google
180 Journal of Society fO]' Psychical Resea1·ch. [Dec., 1889.
Not even receiving on the 13th a letter from this very gentleman, telling
me that as 1 had refused to marry him the previous autumn he had lit last
fully made up his mind to propose to an American girl, and to be married
'Very shortly-altered my conviction.
On February 15th 1 received the letter of proposal, saying that at the last
moment he could not propose to the American, and would ask me once more.
The letter was written late on Saturday evening, February 2nd (allowing for
difference in time between America and England at the very time 1 had the
impression that a letter was being written). It was posted on the 4th.
My mother remembers my telling her of my impresaion before 1 received
the letter.
STATEMENT FROM E. M.'s MOTHER.
1 remember "E. M." showing me a letter on February 13th from a friend
-of hers (who is abroad), stating that he was likely to propose marriage to a
'young lady. "E. M." then told me that previously, m the night of February
3rd, whilst lying half asleep, she had a strong impression that he was going
to propose to her, though from what he had before written this seemed most
unlikely, but a letter received two days later proved that her impression was
right.
ANSWERS FROM E. M. TO MR. }'RYER'S QUESTIONS.
1. Corroborative statement 1-1 enclose my mother's. 1 mentioned my
presentiment to no one else except to you. 1 told my mother on February
13th, when 1 received the first letter (which 1 showed her), that 1 had
-a presentiment that a letter of proposal was on its way to me fronl
Mr.--.
2. May 1 see the two envelopes 1-Envelopes enclosed. The first
letter was written January 31st, the second was dated February 2Dd,
Up.m.
3. Have you ever had any similar experience 1-Yes, on three occasions,
but 1 cannot get them corroborated, as my brother and the friends
concerned object to answering questions on the subject. The first time was
during August, 1879. 1 was away from home, and was just recovering from
an illness. 1 awoke one night feeling certain that my only brother was in
.a railway accident. 1 immediately lighted a candle and looked at my watch
-eight minutes to 12-as 1 did so 1 felt that he was unhurt, and that all
danger was over. The next day my brother unexpectedly arrived, and I
Iound that he had been in a slight railway accident the night before. The
:accident took place a few minutes before midnight-,as he also had looked at his
watch. The second time, February27th, 1885. A strong conviction that some-
thing (I knew not what) utterly unexpected would arise on or before May
:21st that would cause unhappiness to two people and entirely alter the
course of their lives. I mElntLOned this a day or two after to the person
chiefly concerned, in the hope that whatever it was it might be averted.
This person only laughed at it, and as late as May 20th declared it could not
come true-it was pure imagination on my part. It came true on the 21st.
The third time, September, 1885, that a great friend of mine, of whom I
had not heard for some time, was staying in a certain place in lodgings, and
was at the time very unhappy and worried. This also proved to be true.
4. Can you say how long before February 3rd you had heard from or of
him [the gentleman in America] 1-No one had mentioned his name to me
for weeks, but I had had a few lines from him during January.
5. Had you talked about him or read any letters from or about him on
or about the 1st or 2nd of February, 18891-No.
6. Were you in ordinary health 1--~..Yes. I always have more or le88
constant headache, and my headaches had been very severe just before-but
were better at the time.
Digitized by Google
Dec.,l889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1·ch.. 181
7. What initials 1-E. M. will do.
In answer to an inquiry whether she had ever had hallucinations or
impressions which were not veridical. "E. M." writes :-
I have never had any strong impression. hallucination, or dream that
has not come true-beyond one dream that repeats itself about every year
at uncertain intervals. I have had it five or six times.
I wake up dreaming that a man with red hair and a red beard is leaning
"ver my bed with a knife in his hand. Sometimes he has hold of my
shoulder. For some minutes after I am awake I still seem to see and feel
him. his hot breath coming on my face. I try and knock his arm on one
side, and it goes through him. After about two minutes he gradually fades
away. It is always the same face, and I cannot-since I first had the
dream about six years ago-conquer my horror of red-headed men, though I
have never seen any man like the man I see; I have tried moving my bed to
another part of the room, but the dream still comes.
L. 1049. COLLECTIVE.
FROM MR. SEPTIMUS ALLEN, STEWARD of HAILEYBl'RY COLLEGE.
In the year 1872 I was living in Leeds, where I had the supervision of
one department of an engineering works. At this time one of my wife's
brothers was living with us. He was a journeyman painter, employed by a.
firm of decorators in Leeds. My wife had two brothers and one sister who
were all deaf and dumb. This one, John. had taken a severe cold from
having got wet in the early morning. and working all day in his damp
clothes. A very bad attack of rheumatic fever followed. Can you imagine
a man sufi"eriug from intense rheumatic pains, swollen hands and arms. so
that he could not use his fingers, 'Which 1l)flre his only means for ccntversat·jQ'll"
if so, you can picture one of the most distressing cases, and one, I hope, we
may never see the like. Not a pain eould he describe, not a wish could he
make known. He got worse, and we were told by the doctor
that we should send for any members of the family that might
desire to see him. At this time, one afternoon, my wife and I were at tea
(our two children were out), when we heard pleaaant musical sounds in
John's bedroom, as he was the only person upstairs. we were very much
surprised, and went up at once, we found him lying upon his back, with his
eyes fixed upon the ceiling, and his face lighted up with one of the brightest
of smiles. We did not disturb him, but I fetched in a gentleman, who was
our next-door neighbour, to witness what we felt to be a strange
occurrence. After some little time (I cannot say how long now), Jack
awoke, and used the words" Heaven" and" beautiful," as well as he could
by the motion of hhl lips and facial expression. He also told us, in the same
manner, upon becoming more conscious, that his brother Tom and sister
Harriet were coming to see him (and considering that they were also mutes)
we felt that of all members of our family residing in Herts or Cambs, that
these two were the least likely to undertake such a journey, but in (perhaps)
fifteen minutes, a cab drove up to the door. from which they Alighted. They
had sent no intimation, nor had any olle else of their coming. After his
partial recovery, when able to write or converse upon his fingers, he told us
that he had been allowed to see into Heaven, and hear music, it was
beautiful.
What were those musical sounds, and how did Jack know that Tom and
Harriet were travelling 1 SBPTIML'S ALLEN.
Haileybury College, March, 1889.
MR. PODMOU's QUESTIONS AND REPLIES.
1. Are you musician enough to be able to describe more particularly the
Digitized by Google
IR2 JotL1'1wl of Society for P8ychical Research. Dec., 1889.
music which you heard 1 Was it like a song or like instrumental music 1
nnd if the latter, like what instrument 1
I have always had the idea that the music was as if instrumental, and
eomposed of many chords, such as I imagine would be produced by a strong
eurrent of wind upon a harp.
2. How long did it last 1 Did you hear whilst you came into the room,
nil wellna before you were there 1 And did the gentleman hear it whom
you fetched in 1
I cannot say how long it lasted, or whether we he/ud after we got
into the room; our attention was given to JOhll, who we thought was
dying.
3. What was the address of your house ill Leeds 1 Was it one of a row
()f houses, and was It possible for the sound to have come from next door or
from the street1
Pottery House, HUll"let, Leeds. Not one of a row. it was a portion
()f what had been n. large house, situate in Jack-lane. This rough plan is as
near correct as I cm make it now.
•
A. House of Yr. Britton, sen. B. House of Th. Alfred Britton. C. House of }[r.
Allen. D. Garden ditto. E. Yard ditto.
The music could not have come from next door or from the street.
4. Is your brother-in-law still living 1 If so, would he write out an
account also 1
MV brother-in-law died about six years ago.
5. Can you give me the addreBB of the gentleman referred to 1
Mr. John Britton, Pottery House, Hunslet. We have not haard any-
thing of the Brittons for lIome years, and I think that we heard of Mr. John
Britton's death eight or nine yean ago. At the time of my brother-in-law',
illness a young clergyman was living with UI, and my wife aays that while I
rail for Mr. John Britton this clergyman went for the doctor. If you cared
Digitized by GOL
Dec.,1889.1 JOtwnal of Society for P8ychiccil Research. 183
to inquire of him the last I heard of him he was a curate at St. ColUUlba's,
Haggerstone, N.E. His name is (Rev.) John Barnes Johnson.
6. I suppose your brother-in-law being a deafmute would hear absolutely
nothing 1 Did he ever at any other time describe hi1Dlleif as .. hearing"
music or anythinl'C else 1
I do not think he ever heard; he used to feel soun.d vibrations, caused
(say) by an engine whistle at a railway station, or the report of a gun, but I
do not think he ever heard as we do.
7. You speak of his eyes being open, and later on of his waking up. Was
be asleep or in a trance, do you suppose 1
I think he must have been in some kind of a trance; his eyes were
open.
The Rev. S. Milford, of Haileybury College, kindly furnishes the
following notes of an interview which he held with Mr. and Mrs. Allen :-
(1) Neither Mr. nor Mrs. Allen have ever had any other auditory
hallucination.
(2) As to the nature of the BOund, Mrs. Allen says it resembled
singing-sweet music without distinguishable worda. She can-
not say the number of notes, but the sounds continued until
she reached the door oi the bedroom. She went upstairs as
BOon as she heard the music.
Mr. Allen's impreasion is that the sound was that of an ...Eolean
harp-i.e., not the ordinary staccato notes of the harp, but
the sustained full notes as of an organ.
MRs. ALLEN'S STATEMENT.
My brother was deaf and dumb from his birth, but could make a few
inarticulate noises which those accustomed to him could interpret. No one
else would have regarded them as words. He had been lying ill for about a
fortnight with rheumatic fever, and was so wook as to be unable to talk on
his fingers to me as he usually did. I had tholliht him that morning rather
stronger, and as the improvement continued I left him to go down
to tea. I had been sitting in the kitchen about five or six
minutes-aa the open staircase communicated with my brother's
bedroom I could easily hesr any noise-when I was startled by BOunds of
singing, &8 I thought, and immediately went upstairs, when the sounds
ceased just before I reached the bedroom door. When I entered the
room my brother was lying with his eyes wide-open, gazing into the far
comer of the room, away from the door. He evidently did not hear me
eaming in, and continued for fully twenty minutes in this state. Although
I stood close to him he did not seem to show any sign of recognition, but
went on smiling, and his lips moved as though he were in conversation with
some one, although no sound came from them.
We had sent Mr. Johnson, the curate who was lodging in the house, to
fetch the doctor as soon as I had called Mr. Allen upstnirs. When the
doctor came, my brother was in the same condition as that in which I had
found him, but after the doctor had given him a tenapoonfulof medicine
{ether 1) he seemed to revive and made me nndurstand in his inarticulatu
apeech that he had been to Heaven and had seen .. lots of angels," his
mother, his sister, and his little brother. All this came out in broken,
disjointed utterancel. .After this he seemed to fall into a drowsy state, but
this appeared to have been the crisis of the fever, and he began gradually to
regain strength. He could not, however, walk about at all f01" more than
three month.-s.
As loon as he could use his handa he began at·different times" to tell me
more dotails of what he had seen. I cannot remember more than I hnve
Digitized by Google
184 JOU1'1Utl of Soc-iety for P8ychical Resea1'ch. [Dec., 1889.
stated above, but I am sure that he told me all this at firat, although the
details were fuller afterwards. He &BO used the words .. beautiful music,"
but I cannot say whether he heard sweet BOunds or only saw .. harpers harp-
ing with their harps."
I told Mrs. Britton-our next·door neighbour-of the music that we
heard, and my impression is that Mr. Britton came in and saw my brother
88 he lay.
In March, 1883, about five hours before my brother's death, while I and
the nurse were watching in the room, my brother, 100kinK just as he did on
the former occasion, smiled, and said quite distinctly and articulately
.. Angels," and "Home."
I have taken this statement from Mrs. Allen.
L. S. MILFORD,
Clerk in Holy Ordera,
March 11th, 1889. Assistant· Master in Haileybury College.
Mr. Johnaon writes:-
I remember the case of the deaf mute to which you allude. I waslod~­
iug in the house at the time, But I certainly did not hear any strange
music, nor do I remember hearing either Mr. or Mrs. Allen speak of it.
Deaf mutes sometimes make strange noises in their attempts to speak, but
Buch sounds are by no means musical.
26, De Beauvoir.road, N., J. B. J.
Felmlary 28th, 1889.
M. 669. HVP:lOOTIKATlON FRO)I A DISTANCE.
l'he following is a translation of a letter from Dr. Liebault, of Nancy, to
Mr. Myers ;- Nancy, Augtut 5th, 1889.
DEAR MR. MYERR,-I send you 1\ copy of 1\ letter which I have written
to Professor Beaunis-a letter concerning an experiment in the production
of somnambulic sleep at a distallCe made by Profe88or Liegeois and myself.
Here is the copy ;-
" As I know that you like to receive observations of the same kind a&
those which you have already succe8Bfully undertaken with Camille S.
but which you were unfortunately unable to continue, I hasten
to communicate to you another very interesting experiment made
by M. Ltegeois and myself on the same BOmnambule. From
the knoll in my garden, where you also placed youraelf for experimenta
(29 metres from my study), M. Liegeois, by mental suggestion, put Camille
S. into somnl\mbulic sleep in 12 minutes. It was on the 1st of August
I\t 18 minutes past 8 by my clock that the Profe880r began to act mentally.
I think that our precautions not to reveal the presence of the operator were
well taken. In particular M. Liegeois, not having come to my consulting
room for at least a fortnight, it was for that reasou alone difficult f01'
Camille S. to suspect his presence in the neighbourhood. It is "
remarhble thing that, when Camille had fallen into her sleep [trance], she
was no longer en rappm-t in that state with a doctor who was present-Mr.
Neilson, of Kingston, Canada-withwhomshe hadbeen, for the last twodays,
in the recent habit of being en rapport, the dOt:tor having received the rare
permi8Bion to hypnotise (endormir) this somnambule. But when M. Liegeois
got near the sleeper, she responded perfectly to him, aud her arms-a sign of
communication pl\S8ing from perBOn to person-became cataleptic under
his action."
(Signed) A. A. WUULT.
Digitized by Google
