{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1824__beaumont___the_anti-swedenborg.pdf","mytitle":"The Anti-swedenborg","mylang":"de"}
w--
2^ … }
º/ 2
-*-*--------* . .
/ º 2 / .
ANTI-SWEDENBORG :
t or.
A DECLARATION OF THE
PRINCIPAL ERRORS AND ANTI-SCRIPTURAL DOCTRINES
CONTAINED IN THE THEOLOGICAL, WRITINGS
OF
EMANUEL SWEDENBORG :
Being the Substance of a Lecture delivered at Ebenezer Chapel,
Ber Street, Norwich, on Sunday, August 24th, 1823, with cons lerable Additions.
BY G. BEAUMONT, //
Resident MINISTER.
“For we have not followed cunningly devised fables. II. Pet. i. 16.
“If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. I. Pet. iv. 11.
Lo N Do N:
Published by
RICHARD BAYNES, 28, PATERNOSTER ROW, *
AND sold BY S. wilKIN, Norwich.
1824.
MORWICH :
. . . ...D BY S. WILKIN, UPPER HAY MARKET.
P. R. E. F. A C E .
-
There is a time to speak, says Solomon;
and there may also be a time to write: and
writing can have but two warrantable objects
—to do good or to prevent evil; and both
these objects may be resolved into one—
doing good.
Those who have any acquaintance with
the works of the Fathers of the primitive
church, Origen, Tertullian, Gregory Nazi
anzen, &c. will find that no small portion of
their writings were occasioned by the here
tic and erroneous doctrines of those days:
those great and good men found that they
had not only to proclaim the truth, but to
defend it also. What was a duty then can
not be less so now ; for the truths of religion
are not like temporal commodities, which
ii PREFACE.
often fluctuate in value; they are like their
heavenly author—the same yesterday, to day,
and forever.
But though I am an advocate for the de
fence of truth, yet as every man has an equal
right to judge for himself what is truth, I
would by no means have the truth defended
by any other weapons than the pen and the
press. For it is a maxim with me, that if
bible truth be fairly pitched against false
hood, it is great and will prevail! I there
fore seriously deplore the practice of prose
cuting men for their opinions, even though
those opinions are obviously of an evil tend
ency. Is not all sin of an evil tendency?
But ought we therefore to prosecute all sin?
Is it not utterly impracticable? Besides, the
claiming the right to prosecute erroneous
opinions, involves in it a most dangerous
principle; which is, that a few legislators
or church dignitaries, or both, have a right
to judge and arbitrate what doctrines and
opinions shall be current among the great
mass ofmankind t Whereverthis principle
PREFACE. iii
has been predominant, and God knows it has
prevailed, and does prevail even at this time,
to an alarming degree, it has been a source
of more mischief, more sorrow and suffering,
than any other cause that can be mentioned.
The Book of Martyrs, and both sacred and
profane history, besides a multitude of biogra
phies, willcertify thetruth ofthese allegations.
No man in the nation is more at variance
with the Theological principles of Mr. Car
lisle than myself; but I cannot think that the
plan adopted by the higher powers for the
suppression of his principles, was the best that
could have been pursued. I have been made
to understand that, the prosecution of this
man had the effect of causing a very great
demand for his bad books; of the truth of this
I have little doubt. Besides a public prosecu
tion when the alleged crime is only for writ
ing or publishing, generally excites public
sympathy in behalf of the person prosecuted;
and every degree of such sympathy is just
so much of a drawback upon the intended
utility of the prosecution.
a 3
iv PREFACE.
Could I have had my wish in the affair of
Carlisle, I would have opened a book shop
as near as possible to his ; even the very
next door if it could have been accomplished.
There I would have published small cheap
tracts, well printed, containing extracts from
Bishop Watson's Apology for the Bible—
authentic accounts of the deaths of Infidels,
&c. Plenty of matter already extant might
have been found, besides original essays and
new efforts of genius in defence ofthe christ
ian religion. Had this plan been followed,
Carlisle would soon have had few friends;
his principles would have had many enemies;
and, I believe his infidel cause would soon
have dwindled, and ultimately perished.
Respecting this publication, The Anti
Swedenborg : I can aver before God and
man, that I have no personal animosity
against, nor even dislike of any Swedenbor
gian in the world; but am solely actuated by
a clear conviction of the evil tendency of the
whole Swedenborgian system. That system
appears to me to be nothing less, in the de
PREFACE. V
sign of it, than an entire revolution in the
christian dispensation. By it we have a new
construction of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost
—the atonement, according to the old notion,
is done away with—the mediatorship is new
modelled—the doctrine of the resurrection
of the body is scouted as impossible, and the
believers of it pitied for their imbecility.—
The day of judgment is past already, even
though nobody remembers it, but Baron
Swedenborg: it took place in the year 1757.
Heaven is made so like this world that we
hardly know which is which—and, as to hell
it is so much mended by the benevolent
Baron, that our paupers at least might go
there with a very fair prospect of comfort.
Besides all these wonderful changes which
the Baron has made in the popular scheme
of theology, we are to resign our antiquated
notion of a last day, or the end of the world,
and to believe that the world will endure for
ever; and that mankind, as they die and
leave the earth, immediately, at least after a
short process of vastation, &c. become either
vi PREFACE.
angels or devils, and so continue to all eter
nity -
In the month of July, 1823, the Rev. S.
Noble came from London to Norwich to
deliver “A course of Lectures explanatory
of the doctrines of the New Church of the
Lord, called the NEw JERUsALEM : on the
following subjects:—On the doctrine of faith
and charity—The plenary inspiration of the
word of God—The divine unity and trinity—
The state of the humiliation of the Lord
Jesus Christ—The manner in which the in
finite God communicates himself to finite
man—The just idea of redemption—The
nature of the atonement—The true import
of sacrifices—and On the nature of the life
hereafter.”
In the above lectures was embraced all or
most of the peculiarities in the Sweden
borgian system. I had not opportunity to
hear more than one of them ; but I had nar
rated to me the substance of many of the
rest. There were mine lectures.
Now, if those Swedenborgian lectures,
PREFACE. vii
delivered by JMr. Noble, were true, then all
the gospel ministers in the City ofNorwich—
in England—in Europe, and in America,
yea, in every part of the world, except Swe
denborgian ministers, are absolutely either
fools or knaves 1
After the delivery of these lectures, I
paused, and looked to see, and hearkened to
hear, whether any minister in Norwich were
disposed to take the Pen, and set up a
defence against this implied slander. I knew
there were many well instructed men both of
the Ministry and Laity fully equal to the
task, if they would but bestow the pains. But
after pausing and listening several weeks,
without discovering any movement towards
such an undertaking, I resolved to deliver a
lecture myself, in my own chapel, on the
Anti-Swedenborgian side. This I did, on
the 24th of August, 1823, to a crowded con
gregation. On descending the pulpit stairs
at the close of my lecture, I was met at the
bottom by a gentleman of the Swedenborg
ian persuasion, and addressed in substance
viii PREFACE.
as follows:—“Mr. B. I take the liberty to
ask you whether it be your intention to pub
lish what you have just now delivered from
the pulpit; because if you will publish your
discourse, I pledge myself for it that it shall
be answered, and every thing that you have
advanced shall be overturned. I don't say
that I will do it myself, but I say that it shall
be done º' My reply to this gentleman was,
“I have not at the present any settled pur
pose to print what I have now delivered,
though I don't say that I will not do it, I
shall think about it, and therefore for the
present can say nothing positively.”
After this I was frequently entreated to
print my lecture, and almost as frequently
promised support, if I would do it. I have
done it with large additions; and the pledge
of the gentleman who challenged me to it, has
not been without its share as a stimulus to the
undertaking. He is now at full liberty to
redeem his pledge. I am aware that the
publisher's plea of being “entreated by
friends,” is esteemed by critics and reviewers
PREFACE. ix
as an old and stale plea of minor authors;
yet it may sometimes be true. It is true in
my case: neither can I believe that a plea
must necessarily be bad, because it is old
fashioned.
I affect not to write for the learned. I aim
no higher in this effort to suppress error, than
the production of what may be called a po
pular tract; or, in other words, a small book
for the common people.
In cases like this in which I have here en
gaged, it is too common for authors to expa
tiate, amplify, and stuff their work with cri
ticisms and various erudite commentaries on
words and phrases, until they have made a
seven or a nine shillings book; and then it is
a book which the poor cannot buy; and if
they can borrow it, they have neither time
nor talent to read it: and thus from a vain
ostentation of learning they spoil a work,
which, had it been brief, plain and cheap,
might have been very useful.
It is the practice of the Swedenborgians
to print small tracts of eight or twelve pages,
X PREFACE.
from the works of their great leader: those
tracts are extracts from some of the most
plausible parts of the baron's writings, as
faith and charity, good and truth, &c.
These are handed about among people who
are not apprised that there may be something
more behind the curtain. Such people
are often captivated with specious language
about faith and charity, not aware that some
thing good might be extracted even from
Mahomet's Alcoran. There are others again
into whose hands these tracts fall, who are
fond of any thing that is fresh ; and thus it
is that proselytes are frequently made to the
Swedenborgian doctrines.
In order that the reader may have a clear
view of the object of this publication, I have
spared many remarks which I could have
made that I might leave room for ample
quotations from the baron’s works. This I
deemed very material, if not essential to the
success of my undertaking; for by this me
thod people will not only hear what I have to
say, but they will have it in their power to
PREFACE. xi
read and judge for themselves. And I
may farther observe, that if I were to quote
all that is eccentric and extravagant in the
writings of Baron Swedenborg, I might
very easily make up a fair sized octavo
volume !
1 shall conclude by observing, that as
Baron Swedenborg took upon himself to act
the part of a mighty man of valour, in revo
lutionizing heaven, earth, and hell, he ought
in any wise to have certified his credentials
for such a mighty undertaking by a few
notable miracles. Moses, who headed a new
dispensation, wrought many in the name of
the Lord. Jesus Christ, in his own name,
wrought numberless miracles, signs, and
wonders. Whilst the Baron, proclaiming
himself to be at the head of a dispensation
which shall last for ever, does not justify his
heavenly mission by even a single miracle !
The baron's friends excuse their leader, by
saying that John the Baptist wrought no
miracles. This plea is weak and futile. John
was not at the head of a new dispensation ;
xii PREFACE.
*.
he was the harbinger not the author of the
christian religion—the author was the Son
of God, “the author and finisher of our
faith.” Heb. xii. 2.
X | | |
C O N T E N T S.
Motto:-If the foundations be destroyed, &c. - - - PAG ge
On the Personality of the Son of God - - - - - - 9
Various instances of Absurdity in Swedenborg's system 25
On the Doctrine of the Atonement - - - - - - - 32
On Jesus Christ as Mediator - - - - - - - - 38
On the Resurrection - - - - - - - - - - - - 42
On the Last Judgment - - - - - - - - - - - 51
On the Origin of Angels and Devils - - - - - - - 60
On Heaven and Hell - - - - - - - - - - - 65
Baron Swedenborg's Canonical Books - - - - - - 70
A sample of Swedenborgian Charity - - - - - - 72
A description of Hell, or a Memorable Relation - - - 78
A farther Account of Hell - - - - - - - - - 86
The Dress of the Inhabitants of Heaven - - - - - 91
Amusements and Pastimes in Heaven - - - - - - 92
A curious Case in Heaven - - - - - - - - - - 96
Account of a Marriage in Heaven - - - - - - - 97
Of Conjugial Cold - - - - - - - - - - - - 101
Concerning the Jews in the Spiritual World - - - - 105
C O N T E N T S .
Of divine Influx into Man - - - - - - - - - - 108
Curious Account of Anxiety and Grief - - - - - 109
Public Worship, Preaching, &c. in Heaven - - - - 110
The Hollanders in the Spiritual World - - - - - 111
The English in the Spiritual World - - - - - - - 113
Swedenborg's Commentaries on Genesis - - - - - 116
State of Man after Death—The Spiritual World, &c. - 121
An Angel cast down from Heaven - - - - - - - 124
The Baron copies the Language of Infidels - - - - 125
Baron Swedenborg's Egotism - - - - - - - - 127
The Mahometans in the Spiritual World - - - - - 129
Concerning Infants in Heaven; their Education, &c. - 132
A sample of Swedenborg's learned jargon - - - - - 136
Angels descendents of the human race - - - - - 138
Explanation of our Saviour's praying to the Father - - 139
God's Power of Redemption circumscribed - - - - 140
Christ's sitting on the right hand of God explained - - 141
The Apostles sent to preach the Gospel in the Spiritual
World - - - - - - - - - - - - - 142
THE
ANTI-SWEDENBORG.
*
- *
. PsALM xi. 3. IF THE FoundATions BE DESTRoy ED, whAT
CAN THE RIGHTEOUS DO.
At the time of writing this psalm, David appears
to have been harassed by his treacherous and
malignant master, Saul. Previous to this period
he had spared Saul's life when fairly in his power;”
in consequence of which, Saul had made a cove
nant of peace and amity with him; and David, at
the request of Saul, confirmed his part of the
covenant with an oath. But in a short time Saul
repented of his repentance, and relapsed into his
former malignity. Now David knowing that
truth, justice, sincerity, and integrity, the exercise
of all which are comprehended in covenants, are
among the foundation principles of all society,
civil and religious ; and these fundamental or
* See I. Sam, chap. xxiv. xxv.
B
2 THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG.
foundation principles being all violated by the
conduct of Saul, he exclaims in the language of
our text, “If the foundations be destroyed, what
can the righteous do *"
But there are others who give the words of our
text, or more strictly speaking, the words of our
motto, a more general scope, and make their sig
nification to be, according to this construction,
“If the foundations,” i. e. the leading doctrines
of religion, “be destroyed,” i. e. denied, subverted,
abandoned, or explained away, “what can the
righteous do *" or, in other words, where is the
dependence of good men : Being thus circum
stanced, they are left to the wide world of
uncertainty, they are upon the broad ocean of the
universe without either helm or compass. We
shall take the words of our motto according to the
latter construction. -
Now it is against many of the doctrines taught
in the writings of Baron Emanuel Swedenborg,
that this essay is levelled. What the doctrines
alluded to are, will be seen in the sequel. They
are such as, in my humble opinion, impugm most
of the leading doctrines of Christianity, unsettle
the faith of some, even of those who had previously
embraced the faith once delivered to the saints,
and mislead and beguile many simple, unwary,
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 3
and ill-informed souls. There may be those who
embrace these doctrines because of their novelty,
for novelty alone is with too many a sufficient
recommendation to anything. And I am afraid
that the laxity of some of the Swedenborgian
precepts have at least some influence in making
proselytes to that system. For a Swedenborgian,
according to an indulgence warranted by his great
leader, may “go to a play”, may “sing a song”,
besides some other little indulgences which it is
needless here to mention. In addition to which,
one of his chapters is headed in the following
words: “That it is not so difficult a thing to live
for heaven as some suppose.” In the puritanical
days which obtained in this nation about one
hundred and fifty years ago or thereabout, this
kind of teaching would have been esteemed unor
thodox; neither do I think that the last quoted
sentence which makes heaven so easy of access,
will very well accord with some passages in the
New Testament, as for instance, “Work out
your own salvation with fear and trembling”—
“Give all diligence to make your calling and
election sure.”—“If the righteous scarcely be
saved, where shall the ungodly and sinner appear?”
(I Pet. iv. 18.) And mark our Lord's words, for
they are awfully emphatical; “Enter ye in at
4 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BOR G.
the strait gate; for wide is the gate, and broad
is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many
there be which go in thereat : because strait is
the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto
life, and few there be that find it.” (Matt. vii.
13, 14.) “Strive to enter in at the strait gate ;
for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in,
and shall not be able.” (Luke xiii. 24.) And
likewise we have in the parable of the sower and
the seed, four kinds of hearers of the word des
cribed, and yet only one of the four kinds finally
attain salvation. (Matt. xiii. 3–9.) Now, there
being naturally too much inclination in our con
stitution both of body and mind towards laxity
and indolence in spiritual duties, there appears
no necessity that we should have the sanction of
written prescription for dealing with a slack hand,
and for being at ease in Zion 1 Those who teach
men to break one of the least of God's command
ments, are to be reckoned amongst the least in
the kingdom of heaven ; which, I apprehend, sig
nifies that they shall not be there at all. I do
not charge Baron Swedenborg with an ill design
in his writings, much less that he had a direct
intention to induce men to break any of God's
commandments. There are but few men in the
world of whom I could believe this. But admit
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 5
ting the Baron's motives to be as pure as purity
itself, that may justify his heart, but it will not
justify his head nor the offspring of his head.
We often hear very erroneous sentiments uttered
by those whose intentions we never suspect.
Nevertheless, when false doctrines and loose prin
ciples are written and then translated, and printed
and reprinted, first in the gross, and then in
piece-meal, or otherwise in small tracts, and
these tracts circulated with persevering industry,
there may possibly be an awful responsibility lying
at somebody's door! In any wise I think it would
be worth while for those whom it may concern,
to review their own conduct and revise their prin
ciples, while there is time and opportunity for
amendment, lest in the end they should lose their
own souls and incur the additional aggravation of
having been accessary to the ruin of others. The
man that leads a wicked life is bad : but he that
devises and propagates false doctrines and erro
neous principles is much worse. A bad life has a
pernicious influence; but then the influence is often
very limited both in extent and duration. Whereas
evil principles and false doctrines are commonly
more rife and mischievous after the decease of the
first founder than during his life. This was notori
ously the case with Mahomet, the number of whose
6 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
adherents at the time of his death in the year 631,
was small in comparison of their present myriads,
even after a lapse of twelve hundred years Mr.
Evans, in his “Sketch of the denominations of
the Christian world,” makes the number of Maho
metans at the present time to be one hundred and
forty millions !
Respecting Baron Swedenborg, it may not be
amiss for me here to give my opinion of him; and
my opinion is that he was a learned man : this
cannot be denied by those who have read his
works, and will speak candidly. Against his
moral character I never heard any thing ; and as
I cannot impeach his moral character, I have no
authority whatever to call in question his piety
and sincerity. But though charity obliges us to
deal tenderly with men's sincerity, yet there may
be very good reasons for our calling in question
their sanity 1. It does appear to many, that either
much learning or something else unknown had
made Baron Swedenborg mad, if not in the highest
yet in a lower degree. For surely no one in his
right mind would have undertaken the subversion
of most of the leading doctrines of Christianity,
which the Baron mostassuredly has done! Whereas
a man in his right mind and under a due impres
sion of the infinite importance of the Christian
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 7
doctrines, would sooner suffer death and strang
ling, than be found guilty of either adding to, or
taking from, the things which are written in this
book, the Bible. (Rev. xxii. 18, 19.)
Besides the dreadful errors, as I deem them,
found in the Baron's writings, there is an almost
endless tautology and repetition either of expres
sion or meaning: this is notorious to the most
superficial reader, and is to me another plain
indication of the author's disordered intellects.
I have seriously thought whilst perusing the Ba
ron's writings, that if all his works, and they are
voluminous, were analyzed and consolidated into
what has been said once over, one good octavo
volume might possibly contain the whole. But
lest I should be charged with misrepresentation
respecting these repetitions and tautologies, I
will give one instance. No. 332, Memorable
Relation, True Christian Religion.—No. 331,
Memorable Relation, Conjugal Love. These
memorable relations, which I find in two different
works, are word for word, except the small diffe
rence which has been made by being translated,
as appears to me, by different hands.
What the Baron says concerning truth and
good, and especially what he says respecting
faith and charity, as also his opinion respecting
8 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
man's free will and predestination, accords in
general with my sentiments, and may perhaps be
read with some advantage. But on these subjects
the Bible may always be consulted with infinitely
more success. Therefore quitting the Bible for
Baron Swedenborg's works, even for sentiments
on faith and charity, is something like leaving
good wine for mere water. Besides if we will
read uninspired books on these subjects, there
are plenty to be found more compact and con
solidated than the Baron's writings, which are
frequently both diffuse and incoherent.
A portrait of this notable man's mind and cha
racter can scarcely be better exhibited than in his
own words respecting those who are enthusiasts,
and under a spirit of delusion : hear what he says.
“They who so addict themselves to musing
on religious things, as to work their minds into
superstitious reveries concerning them, come in
time to hear spirits talking to them ; for such reli
gious reveries, where anyone wilfully gives himself
up to them, to the neglect of relative duties and
usefulness in his station, enter deep and gain a
form in the interior part of man, and so taking
full possession of him, communicate with the
spiritual world, and excite certain spirits there
to associate with him: such are properly vision
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 9
aries and enthusiasts, who believe every spirit
they hear to be the Holy Spirit, whereas they are
no other than enthusiastic spirits, who being under
delusion themselves, delude those whom they have
access to and influence over” | Treatise on heaven
and hell, No. 249.
If the above account of enthusiasm and delusion
be true, then the Baron has perhaps made out his
own case better than any other man could have
done it for him
I shall now proceed to a brief discussion and
exposure of what I believe to be the principal
errors of the Swedenborgian system.
ON THE PERSONALITY OF THE SON OF GOD : OR
THAT THE SON OF GOD IS A DISTINCT PERSON
FROM THE FATHER,
In Baron Swedenborg's True Christian Reli
gion, a thick quarto volume, the doctrine of the
trinity of persons in the Godhead, as held by both
Roman Catholics and Protestants, is treated as a
doctrine the most chimerical and inconsistent;
and as being repugnant both to common sense,
and plain scriptural language. To give the Ba
ron's own words is needless, and if done would
swell this publication much beyond its intended
10 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
limits: but they may be found at full length in
the work just mentioned, under the word Trinity.
But should it for argument's sake be conceded to
the Baron that he has untied one mysterious knot,
which by the bye I do not allow, yet in doing that
he has made more than a hundred texts of scrip
ture knotty, which before were plain, and has
thereby increased both mystery and difficulty a
hundred fold, as shall be seen in the sequel.
Nevertheless, the Baron's Creed allows of a
Trinity in the Godhead, and the following is the
scheme of it. Jesus Christ is God, and besides
him there is no other,-the Spirit within him is the
FATHER—his body is the son, and, the operati
ons, and actions proceeding from both, constitute
the Holy Ghost. If there were any merit in the
authorship of this anti-scriptural doctrine, yet even
then it would not fall to the share of the Baron, for
the very same doctrine, in substance, was broached
and propagated in the third century by an Arch
heretic of the name of Noetus, and whose followers
were called Noetians, and also Patripassians,
because they said the Father suffered in the body
of Christ for the sins of all mankind. After these
arose another sect bearing some resemblance,
though somewhat different, under the denomina
tion of Sabellians, being the followers of one
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. II
*...*
s&bellius. Wide Mosheim's Eccles. Hist. Cent. 3.
Whatever doctrines men profess, except they
be Atheists or Deists, they commonly ground
them on some portion of the Scriptures: the
Swedenborgians support their doctrine of the
person of Christ being the entire Godhead on the
following Scriptures, chiefly—I and my Father
are one. (John x. 30.) He that hath seen me
hath seen the Father. (John xiv. 9.) For in
him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily.
(Coloss. ii. 9.)
Now it is a rule of criticism amongst divines,
that Scripture is a key to Scripture; and that
wherever one part of Scripture appears to contra
dict another, then the analogy of the whole Bible
and unbiassed reason must determine which of the
seeming contradictions ought to give way. Where
fore the Scriptures which make Jesus Christ, the
Son of God, and a distinct person from God the
Father, being very numerous, and unequivocally
expressed, must in all fair construction determine
the above-cited texts to bear a very different con
struction to that which Baron Swedenborg puts
upon them.
Let us then examine the first cited text, viz.
“I and my Father are one.” This text is made
by the Baron to signify that “I and my Father
12 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
are on E PERSON”: whereas the very grammatical
form of the words is against such a construction.
For we find I which is one person; and then my
Father—which is another person; and these are
coupled together by the plural verb are: but upon
the Swedenborgian scheme our Saviour ought to
have said—“I and my Father am one.”
Here it will be proper to state the gloss which
the learned Divines give upon the words before us,
and which, I think cannot be much mended, which
is after this manner—“I and my Father are one
in will,—one in purpose, one in design,<-one
in love, grace, and good will to all mankind—and
all our operations tend to one and the same end,
truth, righteousness, and goodness.” This plain
construction appears to be amply supported by the
following text. “Holy Father, keep through thine
own name those whom thou hast given me, that
they may be one, as we are.” (John xvii. 11.)
Now, whether we take those for whom our
Saviour prays, to be his apostles or his followers
in general, our purpose will be equally answered:
he prays “that they may be one as we are,” that is,
as his Father and himself were one in will, pur
pose, love, goodness, design, &c. So also he would
that all his followers should be of one accord, of
one heart and one mind—that they should mind
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 13
the same things, and speak the same things, and
be all one in Christ Jesus. But he never did, he
never could mean that they should be all compri
sed in one Person.
This subject may be farther illustrated by a
mercantile firm, which may consist of three, four,
or more individuals. Of these it may be said,
and often is said, that they are all one ; because
they are one in purse, one in gains, one in losses,
one in their hopes and fears, and one in all their
mercantile interests. But they are not one person.
The same may still more emphatically be said of
man and wife. They are one in every interest;
and the Saviour himself says that “they twain
shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more
twain but one flesh.” (Matt. xix. 5, 6.) But
even though man and wife are to be one flesh,
yet they are never said to be, nor thought to be,
one person.
The second text cited above: “He that hath
seen me hath seen the Father.” (John xiv.9.) Now,
if these words be taken according to the letter,
then several plain texts of Scripture will be clearly
falsified, as for instance, “And he" (the Lord)
“said, Thou canst not see my face : for there shall
no man see me and live.” (Exod. xxxiii.20.) “No
man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten
C
14 THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG.
Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath
declared him.” (John i. 18.) “And the Father
himself which hath sent me, hath borne witness of
me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time,
nor seen his shape.” (John v. 37.) “Not that
any man hath seen the Father, save he which is
of God, he hath seen the Father.” (John vi. 46.)
From these passages it is manifest that the words
in question are to be taken in a figurative sense.
Every good man, in a fair and scriptural sense,
bears the image or likeness of God; or, as St. Paul
expresses it, he has “put on the new man, which
is renewed in knowledge after the image of him
that created him.” (Coloss. iii. 10.) The same
Apostle says, “For a man indeed ought not to
cover his head, forasmuch as he is the image and
glory of God.” (1. Cor. xi. 7.) Now Jesus Christ
bore the image of God in a superlative degree,
and is therefore with much emphasis and propriety
styled “the image of the invisible God, the first
born of every creature.” (Coloss. i. 15.) But St.
Paul has language still more expressive, if more
be needful : speaking of Christ he says, “Who
being the brightness of his glory,” (the Father's
glory) “and the express image of his person, and
upholding all things by the word of his power,
when he had purged our sins, sat down on the
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 15
right hand of the Majesty on high.” (Heb. i. 3.)
From these and similar texts it is easy to perceive
that the words Image of God, when applied to
Christians, can only be understood to signify the
moral image of God, as truth, righteousness, or
justice, goodness, mercy, &c. a degree of all which
is essential to those who bear the image of God
in a gospel sense. And respecting those who
inherit the power and live in the practice of real
religion, it might be said without blasphemy, that
they who have seen such have seen God, that is,
in a low degree, they have seen God in his moral
likeness. - -
Now if this may be said of a good man or a
good woman, how much more then may it be said
of Him who knew no sin—who did all things well
—in whose mouth was no guile—who was in the
bosom of the Father—who came from the Father,
and was with the Father before the world was—
and who was as a lamb without blemish and without
spot. But more than all these, Jesus Christ inhe
rited in himself the attributes of the Father; those
attributes which are designated as essential and
incommunicable, namely omnipotence, omnisci
ence, and omnipresence. His omnipotence was
manifest in his wondrous miracles, the sick were
healed, lepers cured, the blind received their
16 The ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
sight, the deaf heard, the dumb spake, the dead
lived, the tempest was rebuked, the sea obeyed
his voice, and he walked on the watery element
He forgave sins, he made all things, and without
him was not any thing made that was made. (John
i. 3.) Moreover all power was given unto him
both in heaven and in earth. (Matt. xxviii. 18.)
His omniscience is plainly expressed by St. Peter,
when he replies to his third question, “Simon, son
of Jonas, lovest thou me ?” Peter replied, “Lord
thou knowest all things, thou knowest that I love
thee.” (John xxi. 17.) And he knew what was in
man: he needed not that any should tell him: he
knew men's thoughts, and frequently replied to
them when they were not uttered in words. His
omnipresence was manifested to Nathaniel, whom
he saw under the fig-tree (though at a distance),
(John i. 48.); and in several instances he healed
people who were far from him, by only saying
“Go thy way, thy son liveth,” &c. And when he
was going to ascend up to heaven, he said to his
disciples, “Lo, I am with you always, even unto
the end of the world.” (Matt. xxviii. 20.) Now
seeing that so much of the divine power, proper
ties, and perfections, are evidently found in the
Son of God, “In whom are hid all the treasures
of wisdom and knowledge,” might he not with
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BO, RG. 17
much propriety say, “He that hath seen me hath
seen the Father,” without meaning or intending
to be understood, that he and the Father were
one and the same Person 2 Do we not often even
amongst ourselves say, speaking of a father and
his son, “The son is the very picture of his father”:
and sometimes we hear it also said “If you have
seen one you have seen the other.” But in these
cases it is never apprehended that the two like
persons are one person 1
The third text cited above: “In him dwelleth
all the fulness of the Godhead bodily.” (Col. ii.9)
From these words some draw this meaning, that
as Moses taught the Israelites by ceremonial sha
dows of better things to come, his religion was
unsubstantial and, as to intrinsic value, empty;
but Jesus Christ, the great teacher, being come,
he taught nothing but substantial and necessary
truths respecting God, and all things relating to
himself, his church in this world, and his kingdom
in the world to come. Therefore St. Paul is
pleased to describe the superiority of Christ over
Moses, by the text before us, as if he should say,
in Christ's dispensation there are no empty sha
dows – no unsubstantial ceremonies; but on the
contrary there is a fulness of doctrine, example,
revelation, spirit, wisdom, sacrifice, merit, love,
18 THE ANTI-SW FDEN BORG.
and goodness. This construction of the text is
not unworthy of consideration. -
Others say that St. Paul had reference, in the
words in question, to the divine appearance be
tween the cherubim on the mercy seat,-that
appearance being but in vision, seen but seldom ;
and then only by one person, the High Priest.
This manner of the divine appearance to men
they say was rare and scanty; and to this there
fore Christ is contrasted, because he derived from
the Father a plenitude or fulness of the divine
attributes, the Spirit without measure, and all
moral perfections in an infinite degree, according
to these words, “For as the Father hath life in
himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life
in himself; and hath given him authority to exe
cute judgment also, because he is the son of man.”
(John v. 26, 27.) -
The futility of the Swedenborgian doctrine res
pecting the phrase “all the fulness of the God
head bodily,” will be still more apparent when it
is considered that nearly the same language is
used in reference to ordinary saints; as in these
words: “That Christ may dwell in your hearts by
faith; that ye, being rooted and grounded in love,
may be able to comprehend with all saints what
is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height,
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 19
and to know the love of Christ, which passeth
knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the
fulness of God.” Here then we find nearly the
same phrase repeated respecting the saints as
that which is now the subject of our animadver
sions. This sentiment is still farther confirmed
by the following passages : “If a man love me,
he will keep my words : and my Father will love
him, and we will come unto him, and make our
abode with him.” (John xiv. 23.) “Know ye not
that ye are the temple of God, and that the spirit
of God dwelleth in you. If any man defile the
temple of God, him shall God destroy : for the
temple of God is holy, which temple ye are.”
(I. Cor. iii. 16, 17.) “What! know ye not that
your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which
is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not
your own.” (I. Cor. vi. 19.) “Behold I stand at
the door and knock; if any man hear my voice,
and open the door, I will come in to him, and will
sup with him, and he with me.” (Rev. iii. 20.)
Now these and such like passages more than
indicate a union between the saint and the Father,
Son, and Holy Spirit; but this union does not
resolve God and the saint into one person, but
only into a oneness of love, will, and affection to
good, and aversion to evil : and briefly, a harmony
20 THE ANTI-SW E D EN BORG.
of spirit and a reciprocal entrance and indwelling
in each other. This doctrine is founded in Scrip
ture, in fact, and experience : but at the same
time it is so much a mystery, and so far passeth
all understanding as to defy all the ingenuity and
wit of men to explain. If then oneness of spirit
between God and a saint may subsist without a
oneness of person, why does Baron Swedenborg
so pertinaciously adhere to his doctrine of Christ
being in himself wholly and exclusively, the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, merely because it
is said that—in him dwelleth all the fulness of the
Godhead bodily. A good divine says these words
ought to be rendered thus: “In him dwelleth all
the fulness of the Godhead visibly.” Be this right
or wrong, we know what the Saviour himself said
to his disciples a few moments before he ascended
into heaven ; “Go ye therefore, and teach all
nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.” (Matt.
xxviii. 19.) And his disciple John says “There
are three that bear record in heaven, the Father,
the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three
are one.” (I. John v. 7.) -
The Swedenborgians, when disputing on the
subject before us, will often ask us to explain the
relative appearance and situation of the Father,
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 21
Son, and Holy Spirit, in heaven. We tell them
that we cannot explain it, neither will we attempt
to do it. They then draw this most illogical infer
ence, that because we cannot they can which, by
the bye, is a downright sophism. Their explan
ation is stated above.
It were much to be wished that men, even good
men, were more cautious and reserved in their
language respecting the Father, Son, and Holy
Spirit, than they commonly are. Dr. Limborch,
a famous Dutch divine, of whom Archbishop
Tillotson testifies that he understood religion as
well as any man in Europe, says, the language is
unequivocal and plain, but the subject being
awfully sublime and mysterious we ought in any
wise to refrain from a too curious and critical
examination of the subject; it being sufficient for
us that it is clearly expressed, by which it becomes
to us matter of faith, but not of demonstration :
and, moreover, what we know not now we shall
know hereafter. Mosheim also, in his Ecclesias
tical History, reprobates the practice of those
who are resolved upon explaining what in this
world can never be clearly comprehended—the
doctrine of the Trinity.
Before I take my leave of this part of the sub
ject, I must express my surprise at the conduct
22 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
of Baron Swedenborg and his followers, in their
rejection of St. Paul's epistles, in short his whole
writings, as canonical books, and at the same time
their adoption of the words of our present animad
version, viz. “In him dwelleth all the fulness of
the Godhead bodily.” The truth is Paul's writings
are generally very inimical to the Swedenborgian
system, but the text before us appears to them
selves to favour them greatly, therefore it is eagerly
pressed into their service.
Finally, respecting the several mysteries in the
Christian religion at which hyper-critical men and
Free Thinkers stumble : they are not many in
number, and if they cannot be comprehended,
then God does not require that they should. Is
not this sufficient for us ' But, says vain man, we
wish to understand things to the very bottom.
To this we reply that if men were as anxious to
perform duties as they are to know mysteries, all
would be well with them. If in the faith of the
Gospel we perform our duty in this world, we shall
be gratified with the knowledge of all gospel
mysteries in the world to come.
But if there still be those who will not embrace
Christianity until they can understand the God
head, the incarnation of the Son of God, the
manner how the resurrection will be effected, and
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 23
what will be the form and nature of a spiritual body
after the resurrection from the dead : such people
must be told that they begin at the wrong extre
mity; for the greatest Arch-angel in heaven could
only hope to end where they begin. In the learn
ing of a language, men begin with letters; and if
men will be wondrous wise in spiritual and divine
things, above what is required of them, they ought
in fair reason to make their way first through the
knowledge of nature: and such men commonly
profess to be great admirers of nature. But have
they never been told, or have they never discovered
that nature is as full of mysteries as grace; or
that things natural are as mysterious as things
spiritual 2 Tell me ye Swedenborgians, or any
others who cavil at the mysteries of the christian
religion, why the grass of the field is always green,
and not scarlet, yellow, black, white, or any other
colour. If you say it is in the order of nature
that grass is green, you would have full credit for
speaking the truth: but then the mystery remains
where it was; and I still ask you for a philosophical
explanation of the cause why grass is green, and
not some other colour. Ye cannot answer me,
because it is a mystery. Tell me how the soul, or
spirit of man operates upon his body, in order to
put it in motion. Here again your abilities are
24 THE ANTI-SW ED EN BORG.
surpassed. Define to us the nature and essence of
fire: not its properties, we know them. Explain
to us the principle of gravitation: not its laws,
we know something of them. But the truth is,
that all nature is full of mysteries; and it may be
doubted whether there be one thing in the whole
compass of it thoroughly understood by any man
in the world: even a single blade of grass may be
fraught with wonders far surpassing all the wit
and learning of men. For shame then, vain man'
no longer affect to be stunned and confounded at
the mystery of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost: for if
this and other mysteries be above thy reason, they
are not againstit; they are in part, at least, intended
to try thy humility; whilst the plain, practical com
mandments of God, are designed both to call thee
to thy duty, and to try thy sincerity.
I shall now proceed to show that whilst Baron
Swedenborg has removed the mystery of theTrinity,
in his way, he has created above a hundred other
mysteries by doing so.
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 25
VARIOUS INSTANCES OF ABSURDITY INTO WHICH
BARON SwedEN BORG HAS INVOLVED HIS SYSTEM,
BY DENYING THE PERSON ALITY OF THE SON OF
GOD : OR IN OTHER WORDS BY ASSERTING THAT
IN the PERson of Jesus CHRIST was compre
HENDED FATHER, SON, AND HOLY SPIRIT.
I wish in the first place, that it be particularly .
understood and kept in mind, that whatever
appearance of levity there may be in the follow
ing remarks, they are not in any wise to be even
suspected of being levelled at the Divine Being,
or the divine character, but wholly and entirely
against Baron Swedenborg and his system. I can
assure the reader that I would far sooner suffer
death than be guilty of joking and jesting with
the sacred name of Almighty God.
When Jesus was baptized in the river Jordan,
“Lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he
saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and
lighting upon him: and lo, a voice from heaven,
saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well
pleased.” (Matt. iii. 16, 17.) Here we find, the Son
of God, the Spirit of God, and a voice from heaven;
and yet according to Baron Swedenborg there is
no more than one person in all these. Now, reader,
didst thou ever know a man that begat himself,
D
26 THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG.
and of course was his own father; and then pro
claimed himself his own beloved Son; and then
told the world that he was very well pleased with
himself? Methinks thou wilt say, why this is per
fect absurdity and downright nonsense. So I
think: but it is Swedenborgian sense. Did not
I tell thee, that the Baron in getting rid of one
mystery in his way, had bred a hundred, each of
which are far greater than the one which he has
pretended to remove? “If thou be the Son of God,”
said the devil, “cast thyself down; for it is
written, He shall give his angels charge concern
ing thee:” &c. (Matt. iv. 6.) Here we find the
devil allows that Christ might be the Son of God:
and that in case it were so, He would give his
angels charge, &c. Now who can this He mean,
but God. Here there is the Father and the Son,
even in the devil's mouth. It is a poor compliment
to the Swedenborgians to have it said that they are
less scriptural in their creed than the devil; yet
so it seems to be. And here is another instance,
“And devils also came out of many, crying out, and
saying, Thou art Christ the Son of God.” (Luke
iv. 41.) They did not confound the two persons of
Father and Son, in one Person as the Baron does.
“Whosoever therefore shall confess me before
men, him will I confess also before my Father
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 27
which is in heaven.” (Matt. x. 32.) Here again
is the Father and the Son; and it is worthy of
remark too, that the Father is in heaven, whilst
the Son was speaking on earth. Now if the Father
and the Son were both comprehended in the per
son of Christ, what could be more absurd than the
language of Christ, when he says, “him will I
confess also before my Father which is in heaven;
could it be any other than a waste of words, a loss
of time, and a beguiling of the people's under
standing’ Why not speak of himself only, and
tell his followers what good things he himself
would do for them, without that continual refer
ence to his Father, which he gloried in making.
Here then is another mystery for the Sweden
borgians !
“For I am not alone, but I and the Father that
sent me. It is also written in your law, that the
testimony of two men is true. I am one that bear
witness of myself, and the Father that sent me
beareth witness of me.” (John viii. 16, 17, 18.)
Here then, dispassionate reader, is the most une
quivocal proof of the distinction of persons in the
Godhead ; nor can this forcible evidence either
be evaded or cavilled away by all the shifts and
sophistry that man is capable of. To attempt to
prove that Christ makes his Father (God) and
D 2
28 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
himself two persons, would only be to “hold a
farthing candle to the sun,” and to mend the proof
of a demonstration. Here then is another Swe
denborgian mystery !
“Jesus said unto them, If God were your father
ye would love me: for I proceeded forth and came
from God; neither came I of myself, but he sent
me.” (John viii. 42.) Here is language as explicit
as it possibly can be : for we have Father, God,
and Jesus says I proceeded forth and came from
God; neither came I of myself, but he sent me.”
Now candid reader, what sort of sense would it
be deemed if a man were to talk of proceeding
from himself, and sending himself on an errand ;
and then having accomplished the object of his
mission, going back again to himself? Would
not this be doing violence to all known languages,
and confounding the common sense of mankind 2
And yet if the Father and the Son are one and
the same person, according to the Swedenborgian
doctrine, this must be the case. Here then is
another mystery of Baron Swedenborg's making !
“And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice,
he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my
spirit: and having said thus he gave up the ghost.”
(Luke xxiii. 46.) Here again common sense is
subverted, if both Father and Son were found
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 29
in the person of Jesus Christ, according to the
Baron's doctrine. And another mystery !
“And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a
loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani?
that is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou
forsaken me?” (Math. xxvii. 46.) Now if the
Baron's doctrine of the person of Jesus Christ be
true, then the dying Saviour's last words were
calculated to mislead the understandings of all
men of plain sense and honest minds: for there
is one praying, aad another to whom the prayer
is most solemnly offered up. Here must either
be absurdity in the Saviour's prayer, or falsehood
in the Baron's doctrine ; since, if the Baron's
system be true, then Jesus Christ ought to have
said, “Myself, myself, why hast thou forsaken
me”? But if we are to prefer the doctrine and
character of Jesus Christ, to those of the Baron,
which I am sure all wise men will do, and for the
most part fools too, then we shall most determi
nately conclude, that the Baron is a mistaken,
absurd, and false teacher.
I shall only make special remarks on one more
verse; for were I to remark on all the texts that
are clearly to my purpose, I might easily find
matter enough for a volume. “Who (Christ)
being the brightness of his glory, and the express
D 3
30 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
image of his person, and upholding all things by
the word of his power, when he had by himself
purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of
the majesty on high.” (Heb. i. 3.) Now, ingenuous
reader, canst thou tell me how a man must proceed
in order to sit down at his own right hand ' The
Saviour sits down on the right hand of the majesty
on high; and yet according to the Baron's doctrine,
there is no right hand on the supreme throne,
in heaven besides his own. Here is another
mystery of the Swedenborgian manufacture It
is true the Baron was aware of the text before us,
and has given an explanation of it, such as it is :
but they who can be pleased with it are not ill to
please, for it appears to me to be void of all solid
argument, and frivolous.
There are more than a hundred texts in the
New Testament, a great part of which are in St.
John's gospel, all bearing much the same meaning
with those noticed above. The recital of those
texts would swell this work far beyond its intended
limits: but for the advantage of those who have
but a moderate share of leisure, I will state the
chapter and verse of many of them.–Matt. iii.
16, 17. iv. 3, 4, 6, viii. 29. xi. 25, 26, 27. xii. 50.
xiv. 33. xvi. 27. xviii. 10, 35. xxvi. 29, 39, 42.
xxvii. 46, 54. xxviii. 19. Mark xiii. 32. xiv.
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 31
36, 61, 62. xv. 19. Luke i. 31, 32, 35. ii. 11,
26, 49. iii. 22. iv. 34, 41. viii. 28. ix. 20, 26, 35,
x. 21. xxii. 29, 42, 69. xxiii. 34, 46. xxiv. 49.
John i. 1, 2, 14, 18, 29, 32, 33, 34, 51. ii. 16.
iii. 16, 17, 18, 34, 35, 36. v. 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22, 23, 25, 26, 30, 36, 37, 43, 45. vi. 27, 29, 32,
37, 39, 40, 44, 46, 57, 65, 69. viii. 16, 17, 18, 19,
26, 27, 28, 29, 38, 42, 49, 54, 55. ix. 35, 36, 37,
38. x. 15, 17, 18, 25, 29, 30, 32, 36. xi. 4, 27, 41,
42. xii. 26, 27, 28, 44, 45, 49, 50. xiii. 1, 3, 31,
32. xiv. 1, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 16, 20, 21, 23, 24,
28, 31. xv. 1, 2, 8, 9, 10, 15, 16, 21, 23, 24, 26.
xvi. 3, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 16, 17, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28,
30, 32. xvii. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13,
18, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26. xviii. 11. xix. 7.
xx. 17, 21, 31. Acts ii. 32, 33, 34, 35, 36.
Romans i. 1, 3, 4, 7. James i. 1. I. Peter i. 3.
I. John i. 1, 2, 3. Jude 1, 4. Rev. i. 1, 2.
Thus, reader, I have with some trouble pointed
out to thee most of the texts in the four gospels,
which bear upon the subject before us. I have
only made one quotation of chapter and verse,
from each of the apostles, deeming that quite suffi
cient, though a multitude more might have been
taken from the same source ; but the needless
expansion of this publication is what I would
studiously avoid. However, let me intreat thee
32 THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG.
to employ a few of thy leisure moments in turning
over the leaves of thy New Testament, according
to the references here made ready for thee, in
order that thy own principles may be rectified, if
wrong, or established, if right: and further, that
thou mayest be qualified both to confute and con
found the oppugners of the Christian religion, as
revealed in the word of God.
THE DOCTRINE OF THE ATON EMENT NULLIFIED BY
BARON SWEDEN BORG.
The doctrine of the atonement is esteemed by
the best divines as a very important article in the
Christian religion. It is not very material whether
we say Christ atoned for, made satisfaction for,
was a sacrifice for, or expiated sin; the amount
is much the same, and the doctrine stands clearly
recorded in the word of God. The Baron has
explained this doctrine after a new fashion, and
of course has made a new thing of it. I omit the
statement of his own words for a reason more than
once assigned already ; but refer those who may
have access to the Baron's Works, to No. 135,
Memorable Relation, Christian Religion; where
they will find enough to show them what is the
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 33
creed of a Swedenborgian on this subject. I will
now lay before thee, reader, a few appropriate
texts of scripture, make one or two remarks, and
then leave thee to thy own cogitations.
“Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried
our sorrows ; yet we did esteem him stricken,
smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded
for our transgressions, he was bruised for our
iniquities ; the chastisement of our peace was
upon him : and by his stripes we are healed.”
(Isa. liii. 4, 5.)
“But those things which God before had shewed
by the mouth of all his prophets, that Christ should
suffer, he hath so fulfilled.” (I. Pet. iii. 18.)
“Be ye followers of God, as dear children; and
walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and
hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice
to God for a sweet smelling savour.” (Eph. v. 1, 2.)
“For even Christ our passover is sacrificed
for us. (I. Cor. v. 7.)
“Unto him that loved us, and washed us from
our sins in his own blood.” (Rev. i. 5.) “These
are they which have come out of great tribulation,
and have washed their robes, and made them
white in the blood of the Lamb.” (Rev. vii. 14.)
“For when we were yet without strength, in
due time Christ died for the ungodly. But God
34 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
commendeth his love toward us, in that while we
were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more
then, being justified by his blood, we shall be
saved from wrath through him. And not only so,
but we also joy in God, through our Lord Jesus
Christ, by whom we have now received the atone
ment.” (Rom. v. 6, 8, 11.) -
“Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of
the law, being made a curse for us; for it is written,
cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree.”
(Gal. iii. 13.)
“Even so the son of man came not to be minis
tered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a
ransom for many.” (Matt. xx. 28.)
“Who gave himself a ransom for all, to be
testified in due time.” (I. Tim. ii. 6.)
“And he is the propitiation for our sins : and
not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole
world.” (I. John ii. 2.)
“Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not
redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and
gold, from your vain conversation received by
tradition from your fathers; but with the precious
blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish
and without spot.” (I. Pet. i. 18, 19.)
“But Christ being come an High Priest of
good things to come, by a greater and more perfect
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 35
tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not
of this building: neither by the blood of goats and
calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into
the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption
for us.” (Heb. ix. 11, 12.) “Almost all things are
by the law purged with blood; and without shed
ding of blood is no remission.” (Heb. ix. 22.)
Now if Christ be not viewed by faith as having
made himself a sacrifice for the sins of mankind,
then a great part, and indeed the main part of the
Mosaic dispensation is rendered senseless, null,
and void; for we are explicitly told by St. Paul
that the sacrifices, offerings, and other ceremo
nial rites were “shadows of good things to come.”
By which he evidently meant that they typified
the gospel dispensation. But the sacrifices offered
up for the sins of the people, were specially in
tended to typify Christ, who in the fulness of time
was offered up once for all, as the last great, and
only efficient sacrifice for the sin of the world.
But if we may not, as Baron Swedenborg would
teach us, view Christ as a sacrifice for sin, then
we require of the Swedenborgians to tell us what
the Mosaic sacrifices were types of: for according
to their doctrine those sacrificial types had no
antitypes. For ourselves we know of no person
northing that could possibly be the antitype except
36 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
Christ, and this they deny. If this doctrine of the
Baron's be true, then poor Moses, or rather silly
Moses, made much ado about nothing; for St. Paul
says, (Heb. x. 4.) “For it is not possible that the
blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins.”
Then if those sacrifices were inefficient as to
the remission of sins, and at the same time not sha
dows of better things to come, what were they, and
for what purposes could they have been instituted?
In the books of Ea'odus, Leviticus, and Numbers,
the word alonement occurs forty times; and the
word sacrifice in nominal and verbal forms, much
oftener; and yet unless we prefer St. Paul's doc
trine to that of Swedenborg, they were types with
out antitypes, and shadows without correspondent
substances. -
It is evident from the Baron's writings that he
had imbibed that old, stale, and often answered
deistical argument “that it is both unreasonable
and unjust for an innocent man to be put to death
for a guilty man; and for one man to be required
to pay another man's debts: both these unreasonable
things are supposed to be implied in the commonly
receivedopinion ofChrist making atonement for the
sins of mankind, by the sacrifice of himself, and his
dying for the redemption of the world.
To these objections we reply, “That if Jesus
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 37
y
|
Christ had been forced to lay down his life for
mankind, the injustice of the compulsion would be
as great as the objectors could wish to make it.
But this was by no means the case. There is not
one scripture to be found in support of such a
supposition. Even an ordinary Christian cannot
possibly be such by compulsion: a single act of
virtue, to be such, must be voluntary. Now, Jesus
Christ “gave himself a ransom for all, to be testi
fied in due time”. (I. Tim. ii. 6.) And, says he,
“therefore doth my Father love me, because I
lay down my life, that I might take it again. No
man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself.
I have power to lay it down, and I have power to
take it again.” (John x. 17, 18.) Is there then
any hardship or injustice in suffering a man volun
tarily to lay down his life for another; and more
especially if by so doing he could save many lives 2
And did not Christ lay down his life to redeem all
mankind from the curse of the broken law, and
thereby bring them into a salvable state; and
finally to save entirely all those who would yield a
voluntary submission, by faith and obedience to
the gospel dispensation of salvation by grace?
Jesus Christ, and his redemption of mankind,
will be the theme and song of all the redeemed,
in heaven, for ever and ever. “Unto him that
E
38 THE ANTI-SW E D EN BORG.
loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own
blood, and hath made us kings and priests unto
God and his Father; to him be glory and dominion
for ever and ever, Amen.” (Rev. i. 5, 6.) Now
all this praise and adoration would be ill-timed,
and indeed misapplied, if the Son of God had not
redeemed mankind by a voluntary act. And when
it is said in Scripture that, “God gave his only
begotten son to die for us, &c.”, it is only to make
us acquainted with the gracious concurrence of
Father and Son in the redemption of the world.
Respecting that other objection to the commonly
received doctrine, of Christ having paid the debt
or penalty which we owed to the Law; they say
it is both unjust and cruel to require one man to
pay another man's debts. This plea, of course, is
admitted provided he that pays the debt be com
pelled to do so; but it is quite otherwise if the
paying of another's debt be voluntary : for it then
becomes one of the most meritorious actions a
man can perform'
JESUS CHRIST A MEDIATOR, ACCORDING TO THE
SWEDEN BORGIAN SCHEME.
From the following extract may be gathered
the doctrine of the mediatorship of Jesus Christ,
according to Baron Swedenborg's theology.
THE ANTI-sw EDENBoRG. 39
“It is written that Moses saw Jehovah face to face,
and conversed with him as one man does with ano
ther: butthis was done by the mediation ofan angel,
as was the case also with Abraham and Gideon.
Now since the nature of God the Father in himself
is such, therefore he was pleased to assume to him
self the humanity, and in this humanity, to admit
mankind to himself, and so to hear them, and
converse with them ; and this humanity is what
is called the Son of God, and it is this which
mediateth, intercedeth, propitiateth, and expi
ateth. I will tell you therefore what those four
terms, predicated of the humanity of God the
Father, signify. Mediation signifies that the
humanity is the medium by which man may come
to God the Father, and God the Father to man,
and thereby be his teacher and guide unto salva
tion: wherefore the Son ofGod, by whom is meant
the humanity of God the Father, is called Saviour,
and on earth Jesus, that is salvation. Interces
sion signifies perpetual mediation: for true love,
whence mercy, clemency, and grace proceed,
perpetually intercedeth, that is mediateth, for
those who do his commandments, and who are
thereby the objects of his love. Expiation signi
fies the removal of sins, into which man would
rush headlong, if he approached the naked Jeho
E 2
40 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
vah unclothed with the humanity. Propitiation
signifies the operation of clemency and grace, to
prevent man from falling into damnation by sin,
and at the same time to be security against the
profanation of holiness, which was signified by
the propitiatory, or mercy seat over the ark in
the tabernacle.” Memorable Relation, No. 135,
Christian Religion.
From the above extract, the reader will easily
learn that Christ as Mediator, is to be appre
hended thus : “Jehovah, the Father, inhabiteth
the body of Christ, which body is the Son. Then
the body of Christ, being the Son of God, or as a
Swedenborgian would say, the Son of Jehovah
mediateth between Jehovah within and a sinful
world without.” We often find men advancing
hypotheses which they are mightily puzzled to
defend, but here is a man assuming the language
of inspiration and the peculiar privilege of won
derful revelations, advancing doctrines which have
no foundation in the sacred volume, and at which
common sense revolts However for brevity's
sake I will quote a few of the texts which repre
sent Christ as a Mediator between God and man,
and then leave thee, reader, to thy own reflections.
The literal meaning of the word Mediator is a
person who steps in between two contending
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 41
parties, and acts as a reconciler and pacifier, and
so brings the opposing parties to amity, unity, and
concord. Jesus Christ most eminently acted this
part between his offended Father and rebellious
men, and thus reconciled us to God by his blood
and intercession.
“Wherefore then serveth the law It was
added because of transgressions, till the seed
should come to whom the promise was made; and
it was ordained by angels in the hand of a Medi
ator. Now a Mediator is not a Mediator of one,
but God is one.” (Gal. iii. 19, 20.) “For there
is one God and one Mediator between God and
man, the man Christ Jesus.” (I. Tim. ii. 5.)
“But now hath he obtained a more excellent
ministry, by how much also he is the Mediator of
a better covenant, which was established upon
better promises.” (Heb. viii. 6.)
And for this cause he is the Mediator of the
New Testament, that by means of death, for the
redemption of the transgressions that were under
the first testament, they which are called might
receive the promise of eternal inheritance.” (Heb.
ix. 15.)
And to Jesus the Mediator of the new cove
nant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh
better things than that of Abel.” (Heb. xii. 24.)
E 3
42 THE ANTI-SW FDEN BORG.
ON THE RESURRECTION.
The doctrine of the resurrection of the body
from the grave, or the sea, or wherever else it
may be, at the last day, is held to be so essential
an article in the Christian faith, that without it,
all the rest becomes null and void. Hence says
St. Paul, (I. Cor. xv. 12–14.) “Now if Christ
be preached that he rose from the dead, how say
some among you that there is no resurrection of
the dead 2 But if there be no resurrection of the
dead, then is not Christ risen: and if Christ be
not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your
faith is also vain.
But in the face of language the most explicit
and often repeated in the Bible, the Swedenborg
ian doctrine tells us to this effect, “That when
the spirit of a man leaves his body at the moment
» -
of death, or very soon after, it is supplied with a
substantial or spiritual body, in which it resides
to all etermity. But the material body which is
consigned to the vault, the sea, or the grave, is
never to be seen again to everlasting ages.”
That the heathen world, before the Christian
era, should hold this erroneous doctrine, need
surprise no one, seeing they had not the light of
revelation: but that those who profess to believe
Tii e ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 43
in Jesus Christ, and to follow him as a teacher,
should turn this most glorious and heart-cheering
doctrine into fable and absurdity, is truly aston
ishing. From the Baron's writings and the declar
ations of his followers, it may be discovered that
one of their chief objections to the resurrection
of the body, is that which infidels and scoffers
commonly have so ready upon their tongues, as
“How is it possible that a body thrown into the
sea and eaten by fishes, and then those fishes
eaten by other fishes, &c. should ever rise again.”
It is enough to reply to such objections as these,
that no one can prove it impossible; and, moreover,
with God all things are possible. Besides, we
are no where in Scripture required to understand
how the Son of God will raise up mankind at the
last day, but only that he is able to do it, and
having promised to raise the dead, he will to the
utmost fulfil his promise. Nor is it a mere act of
courtesy in us to believe in the resurrection of
the dead, but an indispensable obligation : for if
we profess to believe in Christ, we must also
believe his doctrine, and even think it an infinite
advantage to believe in him. But our obligation
to believe this doctrine is infinitely increased by
the well authenticated fact that he who taught it,
exemplified it in his own person: and his resur
44 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
rection is set forth as the sure pledge of ours ;
according to these words of St. Paul, “But now
is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first
fruits of them that slept.” (I. Cor. 15–20.) Now
if there be no resurrection of the dead, what are
we to understand by “the first fruits of them that
slept"? The meaning is so obvious that nothing
but wilful perverseness can misconstrue it:—
“Christ the first fruits; afterwards they that are
Christ's at his coming.” (I. Cor. xv. 23.) The word
first indicates a subsequent or successive number,
more or less. If Christ were the only one to rise
from the dead, bodily; then it might with equal
propriety have been said,—Christ the last fruits
&c. To multiply words here is needless.
The Swedenborgians will esteem it no very high
compliment to be told that the Mahometans are in
more respects than one, more orthodox in their
creed than themselves. I have this moment a
book before me entitled, “Mahometism fully ex
plained”, and from the sixth article of their faith
which is on the Future Resurrection, I make the
following extract: —
“We are obliged cordially to believe, and to
hold for certain, that the first before all others,
whom God shall revive in heaven, shall be the
Angel of Death, and that he will at that time
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 45
recall all the souls in general, and reunite them to
the respective bodies to which each belonged;
some of which shall be destined to glory, and
others to torment. But upon earth the first whom
God will raise, shall be our blessed Prophet
Mahomet, &c.”
I shall now, reader, lay before thee a few texts
of Scripture on the resurrection, and then leave it
with thee to believe the Bible or the Baron, ac
cording to the dictates of thy own conscience.
“For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and
that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth:
and though, after my skin, worms destroy this
body, yet in my flesh shall I see God”; whom I
* “In my flesh shall I see God.” The Swedenborgians are
very eager to inform us that this is a mistranslation. They
say the words ought to have been rendered, “out of my flesh
shall I see God.” It is granted that they might have been so
translated, and if they had, they would have served the purpose
of the Swedenborgian system no better than as they now stand.
For, let it only be observed that it is the soul (not the body) that
sees every object that is seen, and that the eyes are the windows
through which the soul looks: and therefore as a man would
say, “I saw out of my window, a man, a horse, or a ship,” so he
may with emphatic propriety say, “after I am raised from the
dead, my soul, out of this body shall see God, &c.” This
explanation is literally confirmed by the Assembly of Divines,
in their annotations on the Old and New Testament, upon these
same words.
46 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold,
and not another; though my reins be consumed
within me.” (Job xix. 25, 26, 27.)
“Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory
rejoiceth ; my flesh also shall rest in hope : for
thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; neither wilt
thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.”
(Psalm xvi. 9, 10.)
“And many of them that sleep in the dust of
the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and
some to shame and everlasting contempt.” (Dan.
xii. 2.)
“Marvel not at this : for the hour is coming, in
the which all that are in the graves shall hear his
voice, and shall come forth ; they that have done
good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that
have done evil, unto the resurrection of damna
tion.” (John v. 28, 29.)
“Jesus saith unto her (Martha), thy brother
shall rise again. Martha saith unto him, I know
that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the
last day. Jesus saith unto her, I am the resur
rection and the life: he that believeth in me,
though he were dead yet shall he live. And who
soever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.”
[shall not die for ever—DR. Whitby]. (John xi.
23–26.) -
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 47
“And as they spake unto the people, the priests,
and the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees,
came upon them, being grieved that they taught
the people, and preached through Jesus the resur
rection from the dead.” (Acts iv. 1, 2.)
“Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans
and of the Stoicks, encountered him (Paul). And
some said, what will this babbler say ? other some,'
he seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods:
because he preached unto them Jesus and the
resurrection.” (Acts xvii. 18.)
“And have hope towards God, which they
themselves also allow, that there shall be a resur
rection of the dead, both of the just and unjust.—
Except it be for this one voice, that I (Paul) cried
standing among them, touching the resurrection
of the dead I am called in question by you this
day.” (Acts xxiv. 15, 21.)
“Women received their dead raised to life
again : and others were tortured, not accepting
deliverance ; that they might obtain a better
resurrection.” (Heb. xi. 35.)
“Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord
Jesus Christ, which, according to his abundant
mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope
by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.”
(I. Pet. i. 3.)
48 THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG.
“But the rest of the dead lived not again until
the thousand years were finished. This is the first
resurrection. Blessed and holy is he that hath part
in the first resurrection.” (Rev. xx. 5, 6.)
“For the Lord himself shall descend from
heaven with a shout, with the voice of the Arch
angel, and with the trump of God: and the dead
in Christ shall rise first.” (I. Thess. iv. 16.)
Thus reader, I have laid before thee far more
texts than were necessary to convince any reason
able man; nevertheless, in this case, as in many
others, the more the better: and many more may
be adduced. But, I have one request to make,
which is, that after having read the above quota
tions, thou wilt turn to the fifteenth chapter of
St. Paul's first Epistle to the Corinthians, begin
ning at the twelvth verse, and read to the end ;
and if after so doing, thou art not convinced ofthe
erroneous doctrine of Swedenborg, respecting
the resurrection, then neither wouldst thou be
persuaded though one arose from the dead!
I cannot, however, dismiss this subject without
expressing my deep concern for the dangerous
state of those who deny the resurrection of the
body: because the doctrine of the resurrection may
be justly called the Key Stone of the gospel dis
pensation; at least Saint Paul thought so ! See
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 49
|.
the chapter last referred to. “And why should it
be thought a thing incredible with you, that God
should raise the dead.” (Act xxvi. 8.) Surely a
doctrine so glorious — so awfully sublime—so
clearly taught in the sacred records—so univer
sally believed from the beginning of the christian
era—so commonly believed by all sects and deno
minations of Christians, even in our day, with the
exception of Swedenborgians, who, as many will
think, deserve not the name of christians; this
blessed doctrine, I say, is not to be given up at the
ipse dia.it of a madman. I call him a madman in
extenuation of his dreadfully erroneous doctrine :
for ifhe was in full possession ofhis mental powers,
then he was one of the most daringly wicked men
of the age in which he lived.
In the death of Christ merely, there was nothing
marvellous; because any man can die: but his
resurrection was altogether miraculous and amaz
ing: it was the ratification of all the predictions in
the Old Testament respecting him—the confirma
tion of his own doctrines and predictions; and the
consolation of all the souls that should ever believe
on his name: because he hath begotten us again
wnto a lively hope by the resurrection from thedead!
I will not say that the denial of the resurrection
of the body, is the sin against the Holy Ghost :
F
50 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
but I am seriously of opinion that it approaches
very near to it. To nullify what is plainly taught
in the word of God—to falsify the language of in
spiration, to hear Christ say, “I will raise him up
at the last day:” and then, tacitly, to give Christ
the lie, must be a crime of no common description.
I tremble for those who have the desperate courage
to abandon the plain letter of the unerring word of
God, and stake their immortal souls, and embark
their everlasting all, in a system compounded of
some truths, (all false religions have some truths)
many falsehoods, mental vagaries, strange mysti
cisms, whimsical labyrinths, and fanciful corres
pondences ! I hope I shall never have courage
enough to be a Swedenborgian.
I will now, reader, conclude this article by
giving thee a quotation from good old John
Bunyan.
“Then I saw in my dream, that in the morning
the shepherds called up Christian and Hopeful to
walk with them upon the mountains; so they
went forth with them, and walked awhile, hav
ing a pleasant prospect on every side. Then said
the shepherds one to another, shall we shew these
pilgrims some wonders’ So when they had con
cluded to do it, they had them first to the top of an
hill, called Error, which was very steep on the
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 51
further side, and bid them look down to the bot
tom. So Christian and Hopeful looked down, and
saw at the bottom several men dashed all to pieces
by a fall that they had from the top. Then said
Christian, What meaneth this 2 The Shepherds
answered, Have you not heard of them that were
made to err, by hearkening to Hymeneus and
Philetus, as concerning the faith of the Resurrec
tion of the Body? (II. Tim. ii. 17, 18.) They
answered, Yes. Then, said the shepherds, those
that you see dashed in pieces at the bottom of this
mountain are they : and they have continued to
this day unburied as you see, for an examplefor
others to take heed how they clamber too high, or
how they come too near the brink of this high
mountain.” Pilgrim's Progress, Book I.
ON THE LAST JUDGMENT.
The doctrine of the last judgment is of high im
port, and is most clearly revealed in the word of
God. Nor has there ever been much controversy
in the christian world, on this subject; which is a
clear proof, if more than scripture proof were
wanting, that the doctrine has met with the ac
quiescence of all men throughout the christian
world, with the exception, now of late, of the
--> -
F 2
52 THE ANTI-SW FIDEN BORG.
Swedenborgians, who, I suppose, wish to be called
christians. The Mahometans believe in a general
judgment, as I shall shew by and by.
This doctrine, I think, may be reckoned among
the essentials of the christian's creed ; and is
so awfully important that many thousands, I be
lieve, have been awakened and subsequently con
verted, since the beginning of the christian era,
only by dreaming of it! I must now state the
Swedenborgian creed on this subject, which is
“That the day of judgment took place in the
year 1757, in the invisible world; and that there
will be no more events of the same kind. The
Baron says, “Redemption consisteth of these
three things, I can declare with the utmost as
surance, inasmuch as the Lord also at this day is
accomplishing a redemption, which was begun in
the year 1757, together with the last Judgment,
executed at the same time, &c.” I might add
more quotations to the same purpose, but I deem
them needless. Brevity I intend to be one of the
attributes of this publication.
The seventh article of the Mahometan's creed,
copied from the book mentioned above:
“Of the Day of Judgment.—We must believe
from our hearts, and hold for certain, that there
shall be a day of judgment, whereon God shall
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 53
ordain all nations to appear in a place appointed
for this great trial, of sufficient vastness, that
his Majesty may be evident there in splendour.
It is in this magnificent and spacious station, that
the universal assembly of all creatures shall be
made, about the middle of the day, and in the
brightness of noon: and then it is, that, accom
panied by his prophet (Mahomet), and in the pre
sence of all mankind, God shall, with justice and
equity,judge all the nations of the Earth in general,
and every person in particular. To this effect,
every one of us shall have a book, or catalogue of
our actions, delivered to us; that of the good, in
suchwise that it shall be received and held in the
right hand; and that of the wicked, so, that it shall
be received and held in the left hand. As to
the duration of that day, it shall be as long as the
continuance of the present age. This shall be
a day of sighs and grief, a day of tribulation and
anguish, when the cup of sorrow and misery must
be drank up, even the very dregs thereof. But
this is what shall be particularly experienced by
the ungodly and the perverse; every thing shall
present to them ideas of sorrow and affliction. To
them every thing shall become aloes and bitter
ness. They shall not obtain one moment of re
pose. They shall behold nothing that is agreeable
F 3
54 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
nor hear one voice that shall delight them: their
eyes shall see nothing but the torments of hell.
Their ears shall hear nothing but the cries and
howlings of devils; and their terrified imagina
tions shall represent unto them nothing but
spectres and tortures!”
Nor is it unworthy of notice, that many of the
wiser heathens believed in a general judgment in
some form, though their form might differ from
that recorded in the scripture, yet the thing they
believed. For, they could in nowise reconcile
themselves to the prosperity of the vicious, and
the adversity of the virtuous, which was every
day before their eyes, but on the supposition of
a future reckoning day, and an hereafter of re
wards and punishments. Besides, it is well appre
hended both by many philosophers and all good
divines, that there is in the breasts of all men a
secret (some would call it an innate) foreboding
of a day of judgment, or something like it, when
cognizance will be taken of the hearts and actions
of all mankind. This principle, they say, is per
petually exemplified in the hopes of the good and
the fears of the bad. These secret hopes and
fears, it may be, are among the books that shall
be opened at the last day. (Rev. xx. 11.)
But I must not wrong the Swedenborgians, for
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 55
they allow of a judgment; but it is a judgment on
every individual soon after leaving the material
body, and takes place in the spiritual world! If it
be true, as some learned men say, that, in the
whole world, more than sixty persons die every
minute, one minute with another; then there can
be no cessation to the work ofjudgment! And if
that be true also, which a zealous Swedenborgian
told me, that according to their doctrine the world
will never be at end, but will continue for ever,
then there must be an everlasting propagation of
mankind. And then again, according to this new Je
rusalem doctrine, all mankind after death become
either angels in heaven, or devils in hell; wherefore
it clearly follows thatthis world, their doctrine being
admitted, is nothing but a manufactory of angels
and devils: and, with regard to what the Bible
calls the judgment day, or day of judgment, we
must now call it an eternal or everlasting judgment!
I shall now advance a few quotations from the
Bible in confirmation of the generally received
doctrine of a last day, or day ofjudgment.
Jude xiv. 15. “And Enoch also, the seventh
from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold,
the Lord cometh, with ten thousand of his saints,
to execute judgment upon all, and to convince all
that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly
56 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
deeds which they have ungodly committed, &c.”
Eccles. xii. 14. “For God shall bring every
work into judgment, with every secret thing, whe
ther it be good, or whether it be evil.”
Psalm xcviii. 9. “For he cometh to judge the
earth: with righteousness shall hejudge the world,
and the people with equity.”
Math. vii. 22, 23. “Many will say to me in
that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in
thy name 2 and in thy name have cast out devils :
and in thy name have done many wonderful works’
And then will I profess unto them, I never knew
you: depart from me ye that work iniquity.”
Math. x. 14, 15. “And whosoever shall not
receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart
out of that house or city, shake off the dust of your
feet. Verily I say unto you, it shall be more tole
rable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrha in the
day of judgment, than for that city.”
Matt. xii. 36. “But I say unto you, that every
idle word that men shall speak, they shall give
account thereof in the day ofjudgment.”
Matt. xvi. 27. “ For the Son of man shall
come in the glory of his Father with his angels;
and then he shall reward every man according to
his works.”
Matt. xxv. 31. “When the Son of man shall
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 57
come in his glory, and all the holy angels with
him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory:
and before him shall be gathered all nations: and
he shall separate them one from another, as a
shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats:
and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but
the goats on the left,” &c. Read this chapter to
the end.
Matt. xxvi. 64. “Jesus saith unto him, thou
hast said: nevertheless I say unto you, hereafter
shall ye see the Son of man sitting on the right
hand of power, and coming in the clouds of
heaven.”
John xii. 48. “He that rejecteth me, and
receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him:
the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge
him in the last day.”
Acts x. 42. “And he commanded us to preach
unto the people, and to testify that it is he which
was ordained of God to be the judge of quick and
dead.”
Acts xvii. 31. “Because he hath appointed a
day, in the which he will judge the world in right
eousness by that man whom he hath ordained ;
whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, in
that he hath raised him from the dead.”
Acts xxiv. 25. “And as he (Paul) reasoned of
58 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
righteousness, temperance, andjudgment to come,
Felix trembled.”
Rom. ii. 5, 6. “But after thy hardness and
impenitent heart treasurest up unto thyself wrath
against the day of wrath and revelation of the
righteous judgment of God; who will render to
every man according to his deeds.”
II. Cor. v. 10. “For we must all appear be
fore the judgment seat of Christ: that every one
may receive the things done in his body, accord
ing to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad.
Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we
persuade men, &c.”
I. Thes. iv. 14, 15, 16, 17, 18. “For if we
believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so
them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring
with him. For this we say unto you by the word
of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain
unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them
which are asleep. For the Lord himself shall
descend from heaven with a shout, and with the
voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God:
and the dead in Christ shall rise first : then we
which are alive and remain shall be caught up to
gether with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord
in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord.
Wherefore comfort one another with these words.”
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 59
Rev. i. 7. “Behold he cometh with clouds;
and every eye shall see him, and they also which
pierced him : and all kindreds of the earth shall
wail because of him.”
Rev. xx. 11, 12, I3, 14, 15. “And I saw a
great white throne, and him that sat on it, from
whose face the earth and the heaven fled away;
and there was found no place for them. And I
saw the dead, small and great, stand before God;
and the books were opened: and another book
was opened, which is the book of life: and the
dead were judged out of those things which were
written in the books, according to their works.
And the sea gave up the dead which were in it;
and death and hell delivered up the dead which
were in them: and they were judged every man
according to their works. And death and hell
were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second
death. And whosoever was not found written in
the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.”
Rev. xxii. 12. “And behold I come quickly;
and my reward is with me, to give every man ac
cording as his work shall be.”
Thus, reader, I have given thee an ample num
ber of Scripture proofs of a day of judgment ;
fewer might have sufficed for those whose minds
are established in true christian principles; but
60 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
this publication is designed chiefly for those who
are not established in every good word and work:
and therefore I thought it better to give line upon
line, and precept upon precept, than to leave any
thing wanting to complete the conviction of such
as are in anywise susceptible of it. There are
many more passages in the bible of the same im
port with those quoted above, which have been
purposely omitted for the sake of brevity. It
may be objected, “that every one who has a bible
has all the above quotations comprehended in it.”
This is undeniable. But then it is also true that
many have a bible who have neither leisure, talent,
nor industry sufficient to collect and collate all the
scriptures that bear upon any one point of doc
trine: and therefore it is the duty of those who
can and will,—“to seek out and set in order many
words.” (Eccles. xii. 9.)
OF THE ORIGIN OF ANGELS AND DEVILS ACCORD
ING TO BARON SWEDEN BORG's DocTRINE.
The following extract will explicitly shew the
Baron's doctrine on this subject.
“That heaven and hell are from mankind, is
a doctrine entirely unknown in the christian world,
it being therein believed by all, that the angels
'THE ANTI-SW ED EN BORG. 61
were first created such, and so heaven became
their dwelling: and that the devil or Satan was an
angel of light, but on revolting from his obedience
was cast down from heaven, together with his re
bellious crew, and that so hell came from them.
It is their (the angels') desire that I would declare
upon assurance from them, that there is not a
single angel in the universal heaven, that was
created such at first, nor a single devil in hell
that had been an angel of light, and afterwards
cast out from heaven; but that all, both in heaven
and in hell, are of the human race; in the former,
such as had lived in the world in heavenly love
and faith, and in the latter, such as had lived in
hellish affections and dispositions.” Treatise
Concerning Heaven and Hell, No. 311.
The Baron supports this doctrine chiefly, as I
understand him, by the following text, “And I
John saw these things, and heard them, and when
I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship be
fore the feet of the angel which shewed me these
things. Then saith he unto me, see thou do it
not : for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy
brethren the prophets, and of them which keep
the sayings of this book: worship God.” (Rev.
xxii. 8, 9, see also Rev. xix. 10.)
Now, what can be fairly inferred from this text
G
62 THE ANTI-SW E D EN BORG.
but that the angel forbade John to pay him divine
honour, because himself was but a servant to the
Most High, and therefore no more than a fellow
servant with both himself and the prophets. This
I am certain is the opinion of the best divines.
Whereas the Baron will understand the words,
“I am thy fellow-servant, and of thy brethren the
prophets,” to signify, “I am a departed spirit of
one of thy brethren, or one of the prophets.” But
the premises will not warrant the conclusion; and
as far as I can find, the Baron stands alone in his
opinion; at least he thinks so himself, for he says
in the words cited above, “That heaven and
hell are from mankind, is a doctrine entirely un
known in the christian world.”
This extraordinary man, therefore, is not con
tent with changing times and seasons in this world,
but he will needs revolutionize, at least reform,
the two invisible worlds ! He first rectifies the
person of the divine Being—then he new-models
the atonement—then again he makes a new thing
of the Mediatorship—after which he proceeds to
abolish the resurrection—onward he goes to the
day ofjudgment, and having snugly set that aside,
he proceeds, Jehu like, to shove all the angels in
heaven, as well as all the devils in hell, out of ex
istence | Samson with his jaw-bone of an ass, was
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 63
but a puny pigmy compared with Baron Sweden
borg!
There are, however, several passages in the
sacred writings which will give some annoyance
to the Baron's new doctrine, as for instance, “And
the angels which kept not their first estate, but
left their own habitation, he hath reserved in ever
lasting chains under darkness unto the judgment
of the great day.” Jude 6.
“For if God spared not the angels that sinned
but cast them down to hell, and delivered them
into chains of darkness, to be reserved unto judg
ment, &c.” II. Pet. ii. 4.
“Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts
of your father ye will do. He was a murderer
from the beginning, and abode not in the truth,
because there is no truth in him. When he
speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is
a liar, and the father of it.” John viii. 44.
“Whereupon are the foundations thereof (the
earth) fastened? or who laid the corner stone
thereof, when the morning stars (the angels) sang
together, and all the sons of God (the angels)
shouted for joy!” Job. xxxviii. 6, 7.
The above passages are sufficient in all reason
to convince any honest mind that angels are pre
existent to our world, and consequently to the
G 2
64 THE ANTI-Sw EDEN BORG.
human race; how then can angels be the souls of
departed saints, and devils the souls of wicked
people departed out of the body ? -
Besides what is already advanced, there is one
special argument which might puzzle even a
Swedenborgian ; and which is comprehended in
the temptation and fall of our first parents. Now
Baron Swedenborg himself allows that the ser
pent tempted Eve; and all reasonable people are
decidedly of opinion that the devil was in the
serpent, and actuated and inflenced him during
the whole of the temptation. The question then
is, “Where did this devil come from, seeing that
no one had ever died up to this time ! And if no
one had died, then there must have been a devil
who was not the spirit of a departed wicked man!
On the other hand I find it plainly recorded, that
there were good angels before any one, good or
bad, had died, as the following passage will shew.
“Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from
the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence
he was taken. So he drove out the man : and he
placed at the east of the garden of Eden cherubims
and a flaming sword which turned every way to
keep the way of the tree of life" (Gen. iii. 23, 24.)
Now, if devils and angels are none other than the
departed spirits of men, as Baron Swedenborg
T H E ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 65
would teach us to believe, then I demand of those
whom it behoves to answer, whence came that
devil that tempted Eve, and those “cherubims”
who were placed at the gate of Eden with a flam
ing sword, seeing no one had ever died up to that
time !
ON HEAVEN AND HELL.
Respecting Baron Swedenborg's description of
heaven and hell, I need say nothing here, as those
will be found in the several Memorable Relations,
which will appear in the subsequent pages of this
tract. I may, however, take the liberty to observe
for the present, that those descriptions are very
wide of the common apprehensions of most men,
even the best of men. But what is of far greater
moment; they are greatly at variance with the word
of God. For the Baron speaks of eating, sleeping,
walking about, and of keeping harlots in hell! And
respecting heaven he tells us thattheyhave, “Their
work and labour of their calling.” And “At the ex
treme parts of the city are to be seen various sports
of boys and young men, as running, hand-ball, ten
nis, &c.” Besides “nursing, following trades, &c.”
These descriptions of heaven and hell are so gross
that the most part even of those who are not over
G 3
66 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
anxious whether the christian religion be true or
false, are offended at the mere recital of them.
To talk of sleeping in hell, does not very well
agree with these words—“And the smoke of their
torment ascendeth up for ever and ever: and
they have no rest day nor night, who worship the
beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the
mark of his name.” (Rev. xiv. 11.) And “where
their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.”
(Mark ix. 44.) “Send Lazarus that he may dip
the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue,
for I am tormented in this flame.” (Luke xvi. 24.)
“And the same shall drink of the wine of the
wrath of God, which is poured out without mix
ture into the cup of his indignation, and he shall
be tormented with fire and brimstone in the pre
sence of the holy angels, and in the presence of
the Lamb.” Rev. xiv. 10.
Nor does the Baron's description of heaven
accord with the bible much better than his por
trait of hell. Running of races, hand-ball, tennis
playing, &c. do not harmonize with, “Eye hath
not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into
the heart of man, the things which God hath pre
pared for them that love him.” (I. Cor. ii. 9.) “Be
thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a
crown of life.” (Rev. ii. 10.) “He that over
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 67
cometh shall inherit all things: and I will be his
God, and he shall be my son.” Rev. xxi. 7.
The Baron by his descriptions of the invisible
worlds, has gone a great way towards making
those who will believe him, neither very anxious
for heaven, nor much afraid of hell, which, where
ever such a feeling obtains, is a dreadful mental
disease. For the sanctions of rewards and pun
ishments do mightily restrain from vice, and pro
mote virtue and piety. We are all naturally too
remiss in religious duties: there is, therefore,
little need to bereave us of those two great stimu
lents, hope and fear.
The author of these new doctrines tells us that
hell, in great part at least, consists of prisons and
workhouses : but that those who will work need
not be in prison: on the contrary, they may eat,
walk about, sleep, and even keep an harlot! Now
if this be true, then the inhabitants of our work
houses in this world, have much more, (some of
them at least) to complain of, then those who are
in hell ! For those resident in our workhouses
are commonly much restrained in their inclination
for walking. And with regard to the indulgence
of keeping an harlot, as the Baron roundly says
they may do in hell, this is very properly denied
them. Yea, they are in many cases denied cohab
68 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
itation with their lawful wives whom they have
had long before their entrance into the Poorhouse!
Is it not evident then, (according to the Sweden
borgian doctrine) that some of our paupers might
even go to hell on speculation, and with some
prospect of advantage!!
With regard to the heathen world, they had
such views of hell as were frightful—They had
their Furies, Harpies, Gorgons, Ixion with his
torturing wheel, and Sisyphus with his rolling
stone, besides many other terrific objects. I shall
conclude this chapter by copying the thirteenth
and last article of the Mahometan's creed, from the
book referred to above.
Of the Mahometan's Hell. “We must sincerely
believe and hold for certain, that there is a Hell
prepared for the unrighteous, the refractory trans
gressors of the divine law, accursed of God for
their evil works; and for whom it would have
been better that they had never been born, and
to have never seen the light of day. It is for
such as those that a place of torment is appointed,
or rather a fire that burneth without touching them,
a fire of ice and north winds, where there shall
be nothing but snakes and serpents, with other
venomous and ravenous creatures, which shall
bite them without destroying them, and shall cause
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 69
them to feel grievous pains. That place shall be
the abode of the impious, and of the devils, -
where these shall, with all sorts of cruelty and rage,
incessantly torture those; and lest the sense of
their pain should cause them to relent, a new skin
shall continually succeed in the stead of that which
has been burnt or mortified. It is for us good
Mussulmans, to conceive and entertain a just hor
ror of this detestable place; such reflections are
the duty of all God's servants: as for those others
who have declared war against our religion, they
shall one day see the torments of hell. Let us all
dread this punishment, and these frightful terrors:
let us confirm our faith by the sentiments of our
hearts, and by the confession of our tongues, and
let us engrave it in the bottom of our souls.”
Thus reader, we find that even the Mahometans,
though they may have a sensual Paradise, have no
eating, sleeping, walking about, nor any keeping
of harlots, in their hell! It was left for Baron
Swedenborg to make heaven not much better than
this world, and hell not much worse! We read in
scripture of a new heaven and a new earth : but
the hero of this publication has made a new heaven
and a new hell !
70 the ANti-swedENBorg.
BARON SWEDEN BORG’s CANONICAL Books.
The Baron was a man of more than common
courage; for having regulated the mediatorship—
the day of judgment—the resurrection, and the
angelic world, besides several other trifling mat
ters, he then turns his attention to the sacred
scriptures, and out of sixty-six books which the
bible contains, he very modestly excludes thirty
two! Had one more been thrown out, then just
half would have been gone ! The books excluded
are charged with having “no internal sense!”
Now, if the Baron be allowed to expel thirty
two books out of the bible, may not some other
courageous man be allowed the same liberty of
conscience, and suffered to dismiss at least half a
score more? Then surely, as we all wish for
equal laws and equal rights, another man finding
that several of the books yet remaining both annoy
his practice and bother his conscience, must needs
think himself entitled to the very moderate privi
lege of dismissing half a dozen more! And as the
world is said by some Ready Reckoners to contain
a thousand million of inhabitants, it is easy to see
that even a lusty quarto bible would be reduced
to the thickness of an old coin sixpence—long—
THE ANti-swedENBorg. 71
long before all objectors and Swedenborgians had
exercised their imprescriptible rights, and their
elective franchise !
It may, however, be worth while to consider
seriously, whether it would not be much the safer
way to admit the whole bible in its present form,
than either to abridge or suffer it to be abridged,
for the accommodation of our own whims, or the
gratification of other men's capricious humours.
Nor should we ever forget what a dreadful penalty
attaches to those who have the desperate courage
either to add to, or take from, the word of God.
Rev. xxii. 18, 19.
“ExTRAct:- Which are the books of the word.
That the books of the Word are all they which
have the internal sense; but that those books,
which have not the internal sense, are not the
Word. That the books of the Word in the Old
Testament are the Five Books of Moses, the Book
of Joshua, the Book of Judges, the two Books of
Samuel, the two Books of Kings, the Psalms of
David, the prophets Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamenta- -
tions, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos, Oba
diah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zepha
niah, Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi; and in the
New Testament, the four Evangelists, Matthew,
Mark, Luke, John ; and the Revelation. The
72 the ANti-swedENBorg.
rest have not the internal sense.” Treatise con
cerning the New Jerusalem, No. 266.
Catalogue of books in the Old and New Testa
ment, rejected by Baron Swedenborg.
In the Old Testament.
Ruth, I. Chronicles, II. Chronicles, Ezra, Ne
“hemiah, Esther, Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song
of Solomon.
In the New Testament.
The Acts of the Apostles, Romans, I. Corin
thians, II. Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians,
Philippians, Colossians, I.Thessalonians, II.Thes
salonians, I. Timothy, II. Timothy, Titus, Phile
mon, Hebrews, James, I. Peter, II. Peter, I. John,
II. John, III. John, Jude. -
10 Books of the Old Testament rejected.
22 Books of the New Testament rejected.
A SAMPLE OF SWEDEN BORGIAN CHARITY.
In the Baron's writings the word charity is a
very prominent word: of course we have a fair
claim upon him, not only for the manifestation of
much candour of expression, but also for a great
share of benevolent feeling and brotherly love.
How far he has satisfied our claims or gratified
THE ANTI-SWEDEN Borg. 73
our expectations, will be seen in the following
Extracts from a small tract published “By the
Members of the New Jerusalem Church, who
assemble in Great East Cheap, London, 1788,
entitled, “R EASONS FOR SEPARATING FROM
THE OLD CHURCH, &c.” For the accuracy of
these extracts, the author does not vouch, but he
will vouch for it that they are exactly copied from
the tract in question.
It may be necessary to remind the reader, that
in perusing these extracts, he bear it in mind,
that by the “Old Church” so often mentioned, is
to be understood both the Roman Catholics, and
Protestants of every denomination 1
ExTRActs:–“Some passages from Emanuel
Swedenborg, whereon the expediency, and even
necessity, of a complete separation from the Old
Church, is founded.”
“That all prayers directed to a trinity of per
sons are henceforth not attended to, but rejected
in heaven as ill-scented odours.” True Christ.
Rel. n. 108. -
“That there is nothing spiritual remaining in
the Old Church, but that it is full of blasphemy
against the Lord.” True Christ. Rel. n. 132, 133.
Apoc. Rev. n. 692, 715.
H
74 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
“That the christian church is at this day en
tirely overturned.” True Christ. Rel. n. 177.
“That a faith in a trinity of persons playeth
the harlot with every truth of the Word.” True
Christ. Rel. n. 177.
“That the Lord is departed from the Old
Church.” True Christ. Rel. n. 177.
“That all who abide by the faith of the Old
Church do not enter by the door into the sheep
fold, but climb up some other way.” True Christ.
Rel n. 177.
“That there is not a single truth remaining in
the Old Church, which is not falsified, and brought
to its consummation: and that this is signified by
the abomination of desolation spoken of by the
prophet Daniel.” True Christ. Rel. n. 174, 177,
180, 758.
“That so long as men adhere to, and are in
fluenced by the faith of the Old Church, so long
the new heaven cannot descend to them, and con
sequently so long the New Church cannot be es
tablished among them.” True Christ. Rel. n. 182.
“That the faith of the Old Church is the dragon
which obstructs and prevents the reception of
divine truth from the Lord.” True Christ. Rel,
n. 182.
“That by the faith of the Old Church no flesh
T H E ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 75
can be saved.” True Christ. Rel. n. 182.
“That Swedenborg publicly opposed a bishop
and other dignitaries of the Old Church, in regard
to their faith in three persons, and confuted them
to their faces.” True Christ. Itel. n. 16, 112.
Apoc. Rev. n. 716.
“That the faith of the Old Church originates
in principles of adultery; for where there are three
divine persons or three Lords in the church, it is
either like a woman who plays the harlot, or like
a woman that is married to one husband, who yet
hireth herself out to two others; and whilst she
spends the night in their embraces, calleth each
of them by turns her husband.” True Christ. Rel.
m. 380.
“That to implant in children and young people
the idea of three divine persons, to which is una
voidably annexed the idea of Gods, is to deprive
them of all spiritual milk, and afterwards of all
spiritual meat, and lastly of all spiritual rationality;
the consequence whereof is spiritual death to all
those who confirm themselves in such an opinion.”
True Christ. Rel n. 23.
“That the Old Church hath shut up heaven
against itself.” Arc. Coel. n. 9256.
“That the church is at this day transferred from
the christians to the gentiles.” Arc. Cael. n. 9256.
H2
76 THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG.
“That the Old Church is rejected, and the
New Church adopted.” Arc. Coel. n. 4231,4333,
4334, 4422,4638.
“That the internals and externals of the Old
Church shall perish: and that this is what is meant
in the Word by heaven and earth passing away.”
Arc. Cael. n. 4231. -
“That the Lord is departed from the Old
Church, and come to the New.” Arc. Col. n. 4535.
“That men are exhorted to beware of the doc
trines of the Old Church.” Arc. Coel. n. 3900.
“That no credit is to be given to what the
teachers of the Old Church say, either about truth
or goodness.” Arc. Cael. n. 3900.
“That the Old Church is a DEAD cARCAse,
or a corps E ; and that reasonings in favour of
the Old Church are what are signified in Matt.
xxiv. 28, by the eagles being gathered together
about the carcase.” Arc, Cael. n. 3900.
“That men must FLEE FROM, and SHUN the
Old Church.” Apoc. Rev. n. 707.
“That there can be no conjunction between
heaven and the Old Church; and therefore there
is an absolute necessity that a New Church be
formed distinct from the Old, in order that the
New Angelic Heaven may have a foundation to
rest upon in this natural world.” Apoc. Rev. n.533.
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 77
“That the doctrines in the reformed or protest
ant churches, are represented in the spiritual
world by a dragon.” Apoc. Rev. n. 537.
“That the falses of the former church must first
of all be removed, before the the truths of the New
can be received and implanted ; or in case they
are received, they do not abide in the mind, but
are extracted by the spirits of the dragon.” Apoc.
Rev. n. 547, 700.
“That the faith, which prevails at this day,
contains nothing of the church; that it is not any
thing; but only an idea or shadow of something;
and therefore is DESERVEDLY to be REJ ECTED,
yea it rejects itself as a thing that bears no rela
tion to a church.” Brief. Expos. n. 96.
“That unless the false doctrines and reasonings
of the Old Church are detected and exposed, any
person unacquainted therewith, although in other
respects sufficiently intelligent, might easily be
seduced.” Apoc. Rev. n. 700.
“That the Old Church is spiritual Sodom and
Egypt, where our Lord was crucified.” Apoc. Rev.
n. 502 to 504. True Christ. Rel. n. 634, 635.
“That the doctrines of the Old and New Church
do not agree together, No NOT IN ONE SINGLE
Pol NT or INSTANCE, however minute.” Brief.
Eapos. n. 96, 103. True Christ. Rel. n. 648.
H 3
78 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
“That the faith of the Old Church, in conse
quence of excluding all light from reason, may be
likened to an owl; but the faith of the New Church
may be likened to a dove; wherefore their con
junction in one mind would be like the conjunc
tion of an owl and a dove in one nest, where each
would lay its eggs, and after sitting would hatch
their young, and then the owl would tear in pieces
the young of the dove, and give them to her own
young for food, for the owl is a bird of prey.”
Brief Expos. n. 103. True Christ, Rel. n. 648.
“That the New Church will be established
distinct from the Old, the latter remaining in its
external worship, just as the Jews do in theirs;
although there is nothing of charity and faith, that
is, of the church among them.” Arc. Coel, n. 1850.
SUNDRY EXTRACTS FROM THE WIRI
TINGS OF BARON SWEDENBORG.
“MEMORABLE RELATION, No. 281.”
“Forasmuch as it hath been granted me by the
Lord, to be at one and the same time in the spi
ritual world and in the natural world, and there
by to converse with angels as with men, and thus
to become acquainted with the states of those,
who, after death, flock together into that hereto
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 79
fore unknown world, (for I have conversed with
all my relations and friends, and likewise with
kings and princes, and men of learning, after their
departure out of this life, and this now for twenty
seven years without interruption) therefore I am
able to describe the states of men after death, from
lively experience, both in relation to such as have
lived good lives, and such as have lived evil; at
present, however, I shall only mention some cir
cumstances relative to the state of those who have
confirmed themselves from the Word in falses of
doctrine, particularly of those who have been in
duced to do so, for the sake of defending the doc
trine ofjustification by faith alone: the successive
states, through which they pass, are as follows;
I. As soon as they are deceased, and revive as to
the spirit, which happens generally on the third
day after the heart hath ceased to beat, they ap
pear to themselves in a similar body to that which
they before lived in, insomuch that they do not
know but that they are still living in the former
world, yet it is not a material body, but a substan
tial one, which to their senses appeareth like a
material one, though it is not so. II. After some
days, they see that they are in a world, where there
are various societies instituted, which world is .
called THE World of SPIRITS, and is in the
80 THE ANTI-SW E D EN BORG.
middle between heaven and hell; all the societies
therein, which are innumerable, are arranged in
wonderful order, according to natural affections,
both good and evil; the societies which are ar
ranged according to good natural affections, have
communication with heaven, and the societies
arranged according to evil affections, have com
munication with hell. III. The novitiate spirit,
or spiritual man, is led about, and translated to
various societies, both good and bad, and is ex
amined whether he is affected with goods and
truths, and in what manner, or whether he is
affected with evils and falses, and in what man
ner. IV. If he be affected with goods and truths
he is separated from the evil societies, and intro
duced into the good ones, of various kinds, till he
cometh into a society corresponding with his own
natural affection, and there he enjoyeth good, cor
responding with such affection, until he putteth
off the natural affection, and putteth on that which
is spiritual, and then he is raised up into heaven;
but this is the case with those only, who have
lived in this world a life of charity, and thereby a
life of faith also, that is, who have believed on the
Lord, and have shunned evils as sins. W. But
they who have confirmed themselves in falses, by
perverse reasonings, and particularly by misappli
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 81
cations of God's word, and in consequence there
of, have lived a merely natural life, that is, an evil
life, (for falses attend evils, and evils adhere to
falses) all such, by reason that they have no affec
tion towards goods and truths, but only towards
evils and falses, are removed from good societies,
and are introduced into the evil ones, of various
kinds, till they come to one that correspondeth
with the concupiscencies of their evil love. VI.
But whereas, during their former life, they made
a pretence to good affections in their externals, .
when, nevertheless, there was nothing but evil
affections, or concupiscencies in their internals,
they are by turns suffered to be in their externals,
and such as in their former life had enjoyed power
and authority over others, are now made rulers of
societies in the world of spirits, with a greater or
less extent of command, according to the dignity
of the offices which they had before enjoyed; but
whereas they have no love either for truth or jus
tice, nor are in a capacity to be enlightened with
respect to the knowledge of what truth and justice
mean, therefore, after a few days, they are de
graded from their authority; and I have seen such
translated from one society to another, and in
vested with power in each society, and yet, after
a short time, degraded in all. VII. After frequent
82 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
degradations of this sort, some through weariness,
want, inclination, and some through fear of losing
credit, want courage to engage in any other pub
lic offices, wherefore they retire from such duties,
and sit down in sadness, and are then removed
into a desart, where there are cottages for their
habitations, which they enter and live in; and
there work is given them to do, and in proportion
as they do it, they receive food, but if they refuse
to do it, they are kept fasting without food, so that
necessity at last compels them to work. Food, in
the spiritual world, is like the various kinds of food
in our world, but from a spiritual origin, and is
given from heaven by the Lord, to every one ac
cording to the uses and services which he perform
eth; to the idle none is given, because they yield
no services of use. VIII. After some time they
are disgusted with all employment, and then they
go out of their cottages, and in case they have
been clergymen, they express a desire to build
themselves houses, and instantly there appear
heaps of hewn stone, bricks, beams, and rafters,
and likewise of reeds and rushes, with abundance
of clay, lime, and mortar; at the sight of which they
are seized with the lust of building, and begin to
lay the foundation of a house, taking up sometimes
a stone, sometimes a piece of timber, sometimes a
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. S3
reed, sometimes mortar, which materials they lay
one upon another, without any order, though it
appears to themselves as if they observed the most
exact order; but what they build up in the day
time falls down in the night, so that the next day
they have to collect the mixed materials, which
they again endeavour to put together, till they are
tired and disgusted with building; this happeneth
to them by reason of its correspondence with their
former life, in that they had collected passages
from the Word, to confirm the falses of faith, which
falses build up the church in like manner as their
building is here represented. IX. Afterwards
they quit their work through wearisomeness, and
sit down in solitude and indolence, and whereas
the indolent have no food given them from heaven,
as was observed, they begin to hunger, and to
think of nothing but how they may get somewhat
to eat, and satisfy their craving; when they are
in this state, they are addressed by certain persons
of whom they ask alms, who say to them, “Why
sit ye thus idle 2 come along with us to our houses,
and we will find you work to do, and give you
food to eat;” and then they get up with joy, and
attend them to their houses, where each hath his
work assigned him, and food given him as the
reward of his labour; but inasmuch as all those,
84 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
who have confirmed themselves in falses of faith,
cannot perform works of good use and service,
but only works of evil use and service, and those
executed unfaithfully, fraudulently, and unwil
lingly, therefore they leave their works, and be
take themselves solely to company, conversation,
walking, and sleeping: and whereas they cannot
then any longer be engaged to work by their mas
ters, they are dismissed as unprofitable servants.
X. On their dismission their eyes are opened, and
they perceive a way leading to a sort of cavern,
whither when they arrive, the door is opened, and
they enter in, and inquire whether any food is to
be had there; and when they are informed that
there is, they desire leave to abide there, and ac
cordingly leave is given them, and they are intro
duced, and the door is shut after them; then the
governor of the cavern cometh and saith to
them, Ye are never again to leave this place;
behold your companions, they all work hard, and
in proportion to their work, they receive food
from heaven; I tell you this for your information.
—Their companions then also tell them, Our
governor knoweth for what work every one is
best fitted, and enjoineth it daily, and on the day
that we finish what he giveth us to do, we receive
food; but if we do not finish it, we receive neither
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 85
food nor cloaths; and if any one doth mischief to
another, he is thrown into a corner of the cavern,
upon a kind of couch of accursed dust, where he
is miserably tormented, until the governor obser
veth in him some sign of penitence, and then he is
taken off, and ordered again to his work; he is
also informed, that every one is at liberty to walk,
to converse, and afterwards to sleep, when he
hath done his work; he is then led into an inner
part of the cavern, where there are harlots, and
he is permitted to take one to himself, and to call
her his wife, but he is forbid, on pain of punish
ment, to connect himself with more than one.—
Hell consisteth of such caverns, which are nothing
but eternal workhouses. I have been permitted
to enter into some of them, and to see the nature
of them, to the intent that I might publish it to the
world: all that were confined therein appeared
like beggars, nor did any one of them know who
he had been, or what office he had enjoyed in
the former world; but the angel who attended me,
informed me, that one had formerly been a servant,
one a soldier, one a captain, one a priest, one a
person of great dignity, another of great wealth;
and yet they none of them knew but that they had
constantly lived as companions in a like state of
servitude, and the reason of this was, because
I
86 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
they had been inwardly alike, although they had
differed in externals, and in the spiritual world
all are associated according to their interiors.
With respect to the hells in general, they con
sist merely of such caverns and workhouses, but
differing according to their inhabitants, whether
they be satans or devils; they are called satans,
who have lived in falses and in consequent evils,
and they are devils, who have lived in evils and in
consequent falses. Satans appear, in the light of
heaven, pale and livid, like corpses, and in some
cases of a darkish hue, like mummies; but devils
appear, in the same light, of a fiery, dusky, com
plexion, and in some cases, black like soot; but
the forms and faces of them all are monstrous;
and yet, in their own light, which is like that of
lighted charcoal, they do not appear as monsters,
but as men; which appearance is permitted for
the sake of consociation.” True Christ. Religion.
A FARTHER ACCOUNT OF HELL.-“MEMORABLE
RELATION, No. 80.”
“A single satan was once permitted to ascend
out of hell, together with a woman, and to come
to the house where I dwelt; as soon as I perceived
them I closed the window, with an intent to con
verse with them as they stood out of doors, and I
'l H E ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 87
asked the satan whence he came? He replied,
from a society of friends; and I asked whence the
woman came, and he gave me the same answer.
She was of the tribe of sirens, who have the art to
assume all habits and figures of beauty and orna
ment; at one time they put on the beauty of a
Venus, at another the decent countenance of a
princely virgin, at another they adorn themselves
with crowns and robes like unto those of queens,
walking in great state with wands of silver in their
hands. All such are harlots in the world of spirits,
and apply themselves to the study of phantasies,
which they effect by means of sensual imagina
tions, whilst the ideas are closed against the ad
mission of interior thought. I then asked the
satan whether the woman was his wife 2 He re
plied, “What is a wife? Neither I, nor the society
to which I belong, know the meaning of the word;
she is my harlot;” whereupon she inspired him
with wanton lust, which these sirens can artfully
do : and he kissed her, and cried out, “Ah! my
Adonis " But to be serious :-I asked the satan
what was his employment: He answered, “My
employment is the pursuit of learning; dost thou
not see the laurel with which I am crowned 7”—
But this his harlot had formed by a magical art,
and placed privately on his head:—and I said,
I 2
88 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
since thou comest from a society distinguished for
men of learning, tell me what thou and thy com
panions believe concerning God’ He replied,
“Our God is the universe, which we also call
nature, and which the more simple among us call
atmosphere, which they take to be air, but the
more wise call it aether; God, heaven, angels,
and the like, whereof various stories are invented
by various people in this world, are all empty
words and imaginary things, derived from meteor
like appearances which float before the eyes of
many in this place. Are not all things which ap
pear on the face of the earth created by the sun ?
At his approach in the spring of the year, are not
all winged and creeping insects produced ' And
are not birds impelled to mutual love and prolifi
cation by virtue of his heat ' And is it not owing
to the same cause that the earth produceth plants
and fruits from the seeds which she receiveth in
her bosom 2 Is not the universe therefore a God,
and nature a Goddess, who like the wife of the
universe conceiveth, bringeth forth, educateth,
and nourisheth her young offspring !” I next
asked him what he and his society believed con
cerning religion’ He replied, “Religion, amongst
us that are raised by our learning above the com
mon herd of men, is considered only as a charm for
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 89
the vulgar, which formeth as it were an atmosphere
about the sensitive and imaginative powers of
their minds, in which atmosphere the ideas of piety
take wing, like butterflies in the open air, and their
faith, which connected those ideas, as with a chain,
is like a silk-worm in its silken web, from which
it flieth forth as the king of the butterflies. For
the illiterate herd of mankind, out of a strong
desire to fly, are in love with imaginations that
are exalted above the sensualities of the body,
and bodily perceptions; and thus they make to
themselves wings, whereby they may rise from
the earth like eagles, and boast themselves in the
sight of those below, saying, behold how far we
are above you! But we believe what we see, and
love what we touch;” whereupon he touched his
harlot, and said, “I believe this, because I see
and touch it; as to those ridiculous imaginations
of which we have been speaking, we open the
windows of our understandings to let them out,
and expel them with the blast of ridicule.” I then
asked him, what he and his companions believed
concerning heaven and hell? He replied with a
sneer, “What is heaven but the aethereal firma
ment in its heighth ! And what are the angels
there but like the spots that revolve about the sun?
And what are archangels but comets with long
I 3
90 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
tails? And what is hell but bogs and fems inhab
ited by frogs and crocodiles, which in appearance
are so many devils : All other ideas concerning
heaven and hell are mere tricks devised by some
prelate of the church, with a view to aggrandize
his reputation amongst an ignorant multitude.”
The satan delivered himself on these subjects ac
cording to the ideas which he had conceived in the
natural world, not knowing that he was now living
after death, and forgetting what had been told
him when he first entered into the spiritual world;
wherefore when I further questioned him con
cerning the life after death, he replied, thatit was an
imaginary existence, and that most probably some
effluvia, rising in an human form from a dead body
laid in the grave, or some fabulous story of a
ghost, had given rise to such an imagination in
men's minds. On hearing these words I could no
longer refrain from laughter, but giving it vent, I
said, O satan, thou hast surely lost thy senses, as
well as thy understanding; for what art thou now?
Art not thou a man in an human form 2 Dost not
thou talk, see, hear, walk, &c.? Recollect thatthou
hast lived in another world which thou hast now
forgot, and that thou now livest after death, and
conversest as thou usedst to do in the body. Im
mediately then his recollection returned to him,
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 91
and he remembered his former life upon earth;
whereat he was much ashamed, and cried out, “I
have certainly lost my senses; I have seen heaven
above, and heard the angels conversing there, in
words and on subjects inexpressible, as I was lately
wandering near this place; but I will now retain
in my mind what I then heard, that I may tell it
to my companions, whom I have left below, and
perhaps they also will be ashamed like myself.
Then he departed with a full determination to
acquaint them, that they had lost their senses;
but as he descended, forgetfulness took the place
of recollection, and when he came amongst his
friends, he was as much out of his wits as they
were, and called all that I had said to him folly
and infatuation. Such is the state of thought and
speech amongst satans after death. They are
called satans, who have confirmed themselves in
the persuasion of falses: and they are called
devils, who have confirmed themselves in evils of
life.” True Christ. Rel.
THE DRESS OF THE INHABITANTS OF HEAVEN,
“NO. 743.”
“The dress of the prince (of heaven) and of
his ministers was this: the prince was clad in an
92 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
upper garment of purple, beset with stars of silver
wrought in needle-work; under this garment he
had a waistcoat of bright silk of a blue colour,
this was open about the breast, where there ap
peared the front part of a kind of zone, or ribband,
with the ensign of his society; the ensign was an
eagle sitting on her young at the top of a tree;
this was wrought of shining gold beset with dia
monds. The privy counsellors were dressed nearly
after the same manner, but without that ensign,
instead whereof they wore sapphires curiously
wrought, hanging from their necks by a chain of
gold. The courtiers wore coats of a brownish
colour, wrought with flowers encompassing young
eagles; their waistcoats were of silk of a fire
colour, so also were their breeches and stockings.
Thus were they clad.” True Christ. Rel.
AMUSEMENTS, PASTIMES, &c. IN HEAVEN, “No.745.”
“When they were come to their private apart
ments, the company, invited from the city to
entertain them with discourse on the various joys
of the society, arrived, and after the usual com
pliments, entered into conversation with them in
a strain at once entertaining and elegant: but the
conducting angel said, These ten men were in
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 93
vited into this heaven to see its joys, and to
receive thereby a new idea concerning eternal
happiness; acquaint us therefore with some of its
joys, such as affect the bodily senses, and after
wards, when the wise ones arrive, they will
aequaint us what renders those joys satisfactory
and happy; then the company who were invited
from the city, related the following particulars.
There are here days of festivity appointed by the
prince, in order that the mind, by a due relaxation
may recover from the weariness which an emula
tive desire may occasion in particular cases; on
such days we have concerts of music and sing
ing in the public buildings of the city, and out of
the city are exhibited games and shews; in the
public buildings at such times are orchestras raised,
surrounded with balusters formed of vines planted
thick together, from which hang bunches of ripe
grapes; within these balusters in three rows one
above another sit the musicians, with their wind
and string instruments, of various tones, both
high and low, loud and soft, and beside them sit
singing-men and singing-women, who entertain
the citizens with the sweetest music and singing,
both in concert and solo, varied at times as to its
particularspecies; these concerts continue on those
days of festivity from morning till noon, and after
94 THE ANti-swedENBoRG.
wards till evening. 2. Moreover, every morning,
from the houses round the public buildings are
heard the most sweet songs of virgins and young
girls, which penetrate through the whole city; it
is one affection of spiritual love, which is sung
every morning, that is, is sounded by modifications
of the singing voice, or modulations, and that
affection in the song is perceived as a real affec
tion, flowing into the minds of the hearers, and
exciting them to a correspondence with it; such
is the nature of heavenly singing; the virgin
singers say, that the sound of their song is self
inspired and self-animated from within, and ex
alted with delight according to the reception it
meets with from the hearers; this ended, the
windows of the public buildings, and likewise of
the private houses are shut, and so also are the
doors, and then the whole city is silent, and no
noise heard in any part of it, nor is any person
seen loitering in the streets, but all are intent on
their work and the labour of their calling. 3. At
noon, however, the doors are opened, and in the
afternoon also the windows, in some houses, and
boys and girls are seen playing in the streets,
whilst their masters and mistresses sit at the
entrance of their houses, watching over them, and
keeping them in order. 4. At the extreme parts
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 95
of the city are to be seen various sports of boys
and young men, as running, hand-ball, tennis, &c.;
there are besides trials of skill amongst the boys,
in order to discover the readiness of their wit in
speaking, acting, and perceiving; and to such as
excel are given some leaves of laurel as a reward;
not to mention other things of a like nature, de- .
signed to call forth and exercise the latent talents
of the young people. 5. Moreover, out of the
city are exhibited stage-entertainments, wherein
the comic actors represent the various graces and
virtues of moral life, &c.” True Christ. Rel.
At the foot of the above most strange descrip
tion of the pastimes of heaven, we find the follow
ing note of the translator, which shews that even
he (though an admirer of the Baron's no doubt)
was somewhat staggered with it!
Note—“The pious reader will not startle or be
offended, at hearing mention made of theatrical
exhibitions in heaven, when he recollecteth the
edifying end thereof, viz. to delineate and re
present the various virtues and graces of moral
life, whereby the spectators and hearers may be
led to correct what is amiss in themselves, and to
perfect their own characters, by the lively exam
ples of perfection and excellence exhibited to
view, and by the wise lessons of moral rectitude
96 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
delivered at the same time. It were much to
be wished that the stage on earth had always
been, in this respect, a pattern of the stage in
heaven, and that nothing had been there exhibited,
but what tended to discourage vice, and recom
mend true virtue. We should not then have heard
so many severe, though just censures, passed on
stage-entertainments by men of wisdom and piety:
nor would the christian world have had so much
reason to lament the great abuse of an exhibition,
which, under the restrictions of piety and virtue,
might be rendered in every age and place both
entertaining and edifying, but which every con
siderate person must acknowledge, is now become
exceedingly dangerous to religious influence, by
favouring and cherishing, rather than rebuking
and discountenancing the irregular passions and
propensities of the natural man.”
A cuRIOUS CASE IN HEAVEN, “No. 749.”
“The conducting angels went to the six vir
gins, and gave them also an account of his com
panions, and requested that they would vouchsafe
tojoin company with them; accordingly they came,
but when they drew near, they suddenly retired,
and entered the women's apartment, where they
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 97
mixed with the virgins their companions: on
seeing this, the conducting angel followed them,
and asked why they retired so suddenly without
entering into conversation? They replied, We
cannot approach; and he said, Why not? and they
answered, We do not know, but we perceived
somewhat which repelled and drove us back again;
we hope they will excuse us: and the Angel return
ed to his companions, and told them whatthe virgins
had said, and he added, I conjecture that your
love of the sex is not chaste ; in heaven we love
virgins for their beauty and the elegance of their
manners, and we love them intensely, but chastely;
hereupon his companions smiled, and said, You
conjecture right; who can behold such beauties
near, and not feel some stirring of desire. True
Christ. Rel.
Account OF A MARRIAGE IN HEAVEN. “No. 19.”
“Towards evening there came a footman clothed
in linen to the ten strangers who attended the
angel, and invited them to a marriage ceremony
which was to be celebrated the next day; and the
strangers were much rejoiced to think, that they
were also to be present at a marriage-ceremony
K
98 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
in heaven. After this they were conducted to the
house of one of the privy-counsellors, and supped
with him, and after supper they returned to the
palace, and retired each apart into his own bed
chamber, where they slept till morning; and when
they awoke, they heard the singing of the vir
gins and young girls from the houses round the
public places of resort, of which mention was
made above; they sung that morning the affection
of conjugial love, the sweetness whereof did so
affect and move the hearers, that they perceived
sensibly, a blessed delightfulness instilled into
their joys, which at the same time exalt and renew
them. At the hour appointed the angel said,
, Make yourselves ready, and put on the garments
of heaven which our prince hath sent you; and
they did so, and lo! the garments were resplen
dent as with flaming light; and they asked the
angel, Whence is this? He replied, Because ye
are going to a marriage-ceremony, and when that
is the case, our garments always assume a shining
appearance, and become marriage-garments.
20. After this the angel conducted them to the
nuptial house, and the porter opened the door;
and presently being admitted within the house,
they were received and complimented by an angel
sent from the bridegroom, and introduced and
THE ANTI-SW ED EN BORG. 99
shewn to the seats intended for them ; and soon
after they were invited into an anti-chamber, where
they saw in the middle a table, on which was
placed a magnificent candlestick with seven
branches and sconces of gold, and on the walls
hung lamps of silver, which being lighted, made the
atmosphere appear as of a golden hue: and they
observed on each side of the candlestick two tables,
on which were set loaves in a triple order; there
were tables also at the four corners of the room,
on which were placed cups of chrystal. Whilst
they were viewing these things, lo! a door opened
from a closet near the marriage-chamber, and
they saw six virgins come out, and after them the
bridegroom and bride, holding each other by the
hand, and advancing towards a seat placed oppo
site to the candlestick, on which they seated
themselves, the bridegroom on the left hand, and
the bride on the right, whilst the six virgins stood
beside the seat near the bride. The bridegroom
was clad in a robe of bright purple, and a waist
coat of fine shining linen, with an ephod, on which
was a golden plate set round with diamonds, and
on the plate was engraven a young eagle, the
marriage-ensign of that heavenly society; on his
head he wore a mitre: but the bride was clad in
a scarlet robe, with an under-garment of fine
K 2
100 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
needle-work, continued from her neck to her feet,
and beneath her bosom she wore a golden girdle,
and on her head a crown of gold beset with rubies.
When they were thus seated, the bridegroom
turned himself towards the bride, and put a golden
ring on her finger, and took bracelets and a neck
lace of pearl, and tied the bracelets about her
wrists, and the necklace about her neck, and said,
Accept these pledges: and as she accepted them
he kissed her, and said, Now thou art mine;
and he called her his wife. Hereupon all the
company cried out, May the divine blessing be
upon you! These words were first pronounced
by each separately, and afterwards by all together;
they were pronounced also in turn by a certain
person sent from the prince as his representative,
and at that instant the anti-chamber was filled
with an aromatic smoke, which was a token of
blessing from heaven: and then the servants in
waiting took the loaves from the two tables beside
the candlestick, and cups (now filled with wine)
from the tables at the corners of the room, and
gave to each of the guests his own loaf and his
own cup, and they did eat and drink. After this
the husband and his wife rose up, and the six vir
gins attended them with the silver lamps (now
lighted) in their hands to the door, and the mar
T HE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 101
ried pair entered the bed-chamber; and the door
was shut.” Conjugial Love.
OF CONJUGIAL COLD.—“MEMORABLE RELATION,
No. 270.”
“One morning after sleep my thought immersed
itself deeply into some arcana of conjugial love,
and at length into this, In what region of the
human mind doth love truly conjugial reside, and
thence in what region doth conjugial cold reside?
I knew that there are three regions of the human
mind, one above the other, and that in the lowest
region dwells natural love, in the superior region
spiritual love, and in the supreme region celestial
love, and that in each region there is a marriage
of good and truth; and whereas good is of love,
and truth is of wisdom, that in each region there
is a marriage of love and wisdom; and that this
marriage is the same with the marriage of the will
and understanding, inasmuch as the will is the
receptacle of love, and the understanding the re
ceptacle of wisdom. Whilst I was in the depth
of this thought, lo! I saw two swans flying tow
ards the north, and presently two birds of paradise
flying towards the south, and also two turtles fly
ing in the east; and as I was attentive to their
K 3
102 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
flying, I saw that the two swans bended their
way from the north to the east, in like manner the
two birds of paradise from the south, and that they
gathered together with the two turtles in the east,
and flew together to a certain eminent palace
there, around which were olives, palms, and beech
trees; in the palace were three rows of windows,
one above the other; and whilst I was making my
observations, I saw the swans fly into the palace
through windows open in the lowest row, the
birds of paradise through windows open in the
middle row, and the turtles through windows open
in the highest row. When I had seen this, an
angel presented himself, and said, Dost thou un
derstand what thou hast seen? and I replied, In
a small degree. He said that palace represents
the habitations of conjugial love, such as are in
human minds; its supreme part, into which the
turtles betook themselves, represents the highest
region of the mind, where conjugial love dwells in
the love of good with its wisdom; the middle
part, into which the birds of paradise betook
themselves, represents the region, where conjugial
love dwells in the love of truth with its intelli
gence; and the lowest part, into which the swans
betook themselves, represents the lowest region
of the mind, where conjugial love dwells in the
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 103
love of what is just and right with its science:
the three pairs of birds also signify these things;
the pair of turtles signifies conjugial love of the
supreme region, the pair of birds of paradise con
jugial love of the middle region, and the pair of
swans conjugial love of the lowest region: the
like is signified by the three kinds of trees round
about the palace, the olives, the palms, and the
beech: we in heaven call the supreme region of
the mind celestial, the middle spiritual, and the
lowest natural; and we perceive them as stories
in a house one above another, and an ascent from
one to the other by steps as by stairs: and in each
part as it were two conclaves, one for love, the
other for wisdom, and in front as it were a bed
chamber, where love with its wisdom, or what is
the same thing, the will with its understanding,
consociate together in bed; in that palace are re
presented as in effigy all the arcana of conjugial
love. On hearing this, being inflamed with a
desire of seeing it, I asked whether it was granted
any one to enter and see it, as it was a represen
tative palace? He replied, that it was granted to
none but those who are in the third heaven, be
cause to them every representative of love and
wisdom becomes real; from them I have heard
what I have related to thee, and also this particu
104 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
lar, that love truly conjugial dwells in the supreme
region in the midst of mutual love, in the marriage
chamber or conclave of the will, and also in the
midst of the perceptions of wisdom in the mar
riage-chamber or conclave of the understanding,
and that they have consociation in bed in the bed
chamber which is in front, and in the east. And
I asked, Why are there two marriage-chambers?
He said, that the husband is in the marriage
chamber of the understanding, and that the wife
is in the marriage chamber of the will. And I
asked, When conjugial love dwells there, where
in such case doth conjugial cold dwell ? He
replied, that it dwells also in the supreme region,
but only in the marriage-chamber of the under
standing, the marriage-chamber of the will being
closed in that region; for the understanding with
its truths, as often as it pleases, can ascend by a
winding staircase into the supreme region into
its marriage-chamber; but if the will with the
good of its love doth not ascend at the same time
into the consociate marriage-chamber, this latter
is closed, and cold ensues in the other, and this is
conjugial cold. The understanding, whilst such
cold prevails towards the wife, looks downwards
from the highest region to the lowest, and also, if
notprevented by fear, descends to warm itself there
the ANti-swedENBorg. 105
at a fire not allowable. Having spoken these words
he was willing still to recount further particulars
concerning conjugial love from its effigies in that
palace; but he said, Enough at this time, inquire
first whether what has been already said is above
the level of ordinary understandings; if it is, what
need of saying more? but if it is not, more will
be discovered.” Conjugial Love.
MISCELLANEOUS EXTRACTS FROM B. Sweden Borg's
WORKS.
>
“CONCERNING THE JEws IN THE SPIRITUAL world.’
“841. The Jews before the lastjudgment, which
took place in the year 1757, appeared in a valley
on the left side of the central point in the spiritual
world, where the Christians inhabit; after that time
they were translated towards the north, and were
forbidden all commerce with the Christians, except
with vagabonds, who left their own habitations.
There are in that quarter two large cities into
which the Jews are translated after Death, which
before the last judgment they called Jerusalems,
but since that time by another name, because
since the judgment by Jerusalem is meant the
Church with regard to doctrine, in which the
106 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
Lord alone is worshipped. In their cities con
verted Jews are set over them, who admonish them
not to speak disrespectfully of Christ, and who
punish such as disregard their admonitions. The
streets of their cities are full of dirt up to the
ankles, and their houses are so offensive, by reason
of their filthiness, that none but themselves can
bear to enter them. After some time I observed,
that several of that people had gained habitations
in the southern quarter, and on enquiring who they
were, I was informed that they were such as had
made small account of the worship celebrated
amongst their brethren, and had scruples in their
mind concerning the Messiah, whether he would
ever come or not, and also had thought on various
subjects in the world according to the dictates of
reason, and had suffered their lives to be influenced
thereby. These consist chiefly of Jews who are
called Portuguese.
842. There sometimes appears to the Jews an
angel in the middle altitude above them, with a
rod in his hand who causes them to believe that he
is Moses, and admonisheth them to desist from
their groundless and extravagantnotion concerning
the Messiah, as if he was still to come amongst
them; representing to them that Messiah is Christ
who governeth them, and all other Creatures;
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 107
and that he (viz. Moses) knoweth this to be true,
and also had knowledge concerning Christ, whilst
he lived in the world. On receiving this infor
mation they retire, and the greater part forget
what they have heard, and few retain it. Such as
retain it are sent into synagogues which consist of
convert Jews, and arefurther instructed, and during
their instruction they receive new garments in
stead of their old tattered ones, and are presented -
with a copy of the word neatly written, and have
an abode allotted them in a city not unhandsome.
But such as do not receive the above admonition,
are cast down, and banished into forests and
desarts, where they exercise all kinds of theft and
robbery one amongst another. -
843. The Jews traffick in the spiritual world as
in the natural world, with various commodities,
particularly with precious stones, which by un
known ways they procure for themselves from
heaven, where there are precious stones in great
abundance. The reason of their trafficking with
precious stones is, because they read the word in
its original tongue, and esteem the sense of the let
ter to be holy, and precious stones correspond with
the sense of the letter. That such stones derive
their spiritual origin from the literal sense of the
word, and that this is the ground of their corres
108 "THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
pondence, may be seen above in the chapter on the
sACRED scripture, n. 217, 218. They can also
make artificial precious stones, and induce others
to believe them genuine; but for this they are
severely fined by their governors.” True Chr. Rel.
of Divine INFLUX INto MAN.
“251. Divine influx passes from the Lord to
man through the forehead, and so into his whole
face; for the forehead of a man corresponds to
love, and the face to the interior of his mind.
The influx from the spiritual angels to man is
all round from his forehead and temples to every
part under which lies the brain, as that region of
the head corresponds to intellect: but the influx
of the celestial angels is on that part of the head
which covers the cerebellum, and is called the
occiput, or back part of the head round from the
ears to the neck, for that region corresponds to
wisdom: when angels converse with man, their
speech enters by these ways into his thoughts;
hereby I could perceive who the angels were that
spake with me.” Treatise on Heaven and Hell.
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 109
CURIOUs Account of ANXIETY AND GRIEF.
299. “It has also been given me to know
whence anxiety, grief, and that sadness of mind,
which we call melancholy in man, proceed: there
are certain spirits, that are not yet joined to
Hell, as being newly departed from the body,
which take delight in things indigested and putrid,
such as meats corrupted in the stomach, and hold
their confabulations in such sinks of uncleanness
in man, as suitable to their impure affections: now
if these their affections are contrary to those in
man, they become in him the occasion of sadness
and melancholy; but on the contrary, if they cor
respond to his own affections, he is pleased, and
delighted therewith. These spirits appear near to
the stomach, some to the right, some to the left
of it, some higher, some lower, some nearer, some
more distant, according to their different kinds of
affection; and that they cause uneasiness of mind,
I am fully convinced, by much experience: I have
seen and heard them, and felt the uneasiness caused
by them, and I have also conversed with them:
upon their removal, the uneasiness has ceased,
and returned upon their return ; and I have also
been sensible of its increase and decrease, accord
ing to the degrees of their approach or removal
L
110 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
respectively; and hence I have learnt whence it
comes, that they who have no notion of conscience,
from not having any themselves, ascribe the an
guish of it to disorders in the stomach or bowels.”
Treatise on Heaven and Hell.
PUBLIC WORSHIP, PREACHING, &C, IN HEAVEN.
223. “That I might be an eye witness to the
manner of their assemblies in their temples, I
have been indulged with permission to enter
them, and hear the preachings. The preacher
stands in a pulpit on the east side ; before him
sit those who are most eminent for wisdom, and
on each hand such as are inferior in this respect;
they sit in something of a circular form, so that
all can see the face of the preacher, but no one
so as to be out of his sight: at the gate, which is
on the east side of the temple, to the left of the
pulpit, stand those who are in the degree of the
newly initiated; but no one is allowed to stand
behind the pulpit, for should any one do so, it
would confuse the preacher, as would also be the
case, should any one present dissent from his
doctrine; and if this were to happen, such a one
would be obliged to turn away his face from the
minister. The preachings there are fraught with
such sublime instruction, as is not to be equalled
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 111
in this world, so greatly superior is their wisdom.
Their temples in the spiritual kingdom appear to
be constructed of stone, and of wood in the celes
tial, and that because stone corresponds to truth,
for the investigation of which the angels of the
former are most distinguished; and wood to the
principles of good, which is more eminently the
characteristic of the angels in the latter; nor
are they called temples in the latter, but the house
of God. In the celestial kingdom their structures
are without magnificence, but in the spiritual,
not without a greater or lesser degree of it.”
Treatise on Heaven and Hell.
** CONCERNING THE HOLLANDERS IN THE
SPIRITUAL world.”
804. “The Hollanders are particularly distin
guished from others in the spiritual world, by
appearing in garments like those they wore in the
natural world, only with this difference, that they
are neater and cleaner with such as have received
faith and spiritual life. The reason why they
appear in like garments is, because they abide
stedfastly in the principles of their religion, and
all in the spiritual world are cloathed according
to such principles; wherefore white garments,
L 2
112 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
and of fine linen, are worn by those in the spiritual
world, who are under the influence of divine
truths.”
805. “The cities, in which the Hollanders live
in the spiritual world, are guarded in a particular
manner; all the streets therein are roofed over, .
and in the streets are gates, in order to prevent
their being seen from the neighbouring rocks and
hills; these circumstances happen in consequence
of a natural prudence in the inhabitants of con
cealing their designs and not publishing their
intentions; for in the spiritual world the designs
and intentions are brought forth to view by in
spection. When any one entereth their cities
with a view to examine their state, at his depar
ture he is led to the gates of the streets, which
are shut up, and thus he is conducted backwards
and forwards from one gate to another, in a most
tiresome manner, and then is let out; the reason
of this tedious procedure is, to prevent his return
ing back again. Wives who affect authority over
their husbands, dwell on one side of the city, and
never meet with their husbands unless by particu
lar invitation in the way of respect and civility,
and on such occasions the husbands lead them to
houses, where the married pairs live without affect
ing any authority over each other, and shew how
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 113
elegant and neat their houses are, and how happily
they live together, informing them at the same
time that this is the consequence of mutual and
conjugal love : such wives as are attentive to, and
affected with these things, cease to claim any
dominion over their husbands for the future, and
are admitted to live with them, and in this case
they have an habitation allotted them nearer the
middle of the city, and are called angels ; the
reason whereof is, because true conjugal love is a
celestial love, which affecteth no dominion.” True
Christ. Rel.
** CONCERNING THE ENGLISH IN THE SPIRITUAL
world.”
809. “There are two large cities like London,
into which most of the English enter after death ;
I was permitted to see one of them, and to walk
through it. The middle of it answers to that part
of London, where the merchants meet, called the
Exchange, and there the moderators dwell; above
that middle part is the east, below it is the west,
on the right side is the south, on the left side is
the north. The eastern quarter is inhabited by
those who have been particularly distinguished for
leading lives of charity, and in that quarter there
L 3
114 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
are magnificent palaces; the southern quarter is
inhabited by such as have been distinguished for
wisdom, and the objects that surround them are
full of brightness and splendor; the northern quar
er is inhabited by those who have been particu
larly delighted with the liberty of speaking and
writing ; and in the western quarter are they who
maintain the doctrine of justification by faith
alone; on the right in this quarter is the entrance
into the city, and also the way that leadeth out of
it, and they who lead evil lives are led out by that
way. The presbyters, who live in the western
quarter, and maintain the doctrine of justification
by faith alone, dare not enter the city through the
great streets, but only through bye-alleys, inas
much as no inhabitants are tolerated in the city,
but such as are in the faith of charity. I have
heard them complain of the preachers from the
west, how they compose their discourses with
such art and eloquence, and conceal therein the
strange doctrine of justification by faith, that their
hearers do not know whether good ought to be
done or not; they preach faith as intrinsic good,
and separate this from the good of charity, which
they call meritorious good, and consequently not
acceptable to God. But when they, who inhabit
the eastern and southern quarters of the city, hear
_
THE ANTI-sw EDENBoRG. 115
such discourses, they depart out of the temples,
and the preachers are afterwards deprived of the
priestly office.
810. “I have been told several reasons why the
preachers are deprived of the priestly office, the
principal whereof is, because they do not frame
their discourses from the word, and thereby from
the spirit of God, but from their own rational light,
and thereby from their own spirit; they take a
text indeed, as a prelude, from the word, but this
they only touch with their lips, and then leave as
a thing without relish, and presently choose some
more savoury subject from their own intelligence,
which they chew, and turn over their tongues, as
a rich dainty, and in this manner give instruction.
I have been informed further, that in consequence
of this practice, their discourses are as void of
whatever is truly spiritual, as the songs of nightin
gales; and that their metaphorical ornaments are
like false hair, neatly curled and powdered, on a
bald head; and that the mystic contents of their
discourses, in relation tojustification by faith alone,
may be compared with the quails brought up from
the sea to the camp of the children of Israel, which
proved fatal to many thousands of the people,
Numb. xi. whereas theological doctrine concern
ing charity and faith, jointly, may be compared
116 THE ANTI-SW E D EN BORG.
with manna from heaven. I once heard those
presbyters conversing together about faith alone,
and I saw a kind of image formed by them, which
represented their solitary faith ; it appeared in the
light of their eyes, which was a light originating
in phantasy, like a great giant; but when light
from heaven was let in upon it, it appeared, as to
its upper parts, like a monster, and as to its lower
parts like a serpent; at the sight whereof they
started aside, and it was cast by the by-standers
into a lake.”
811. “The other great city, called also London,
is not in the middle part of the christian region,
but is separated from it towards the north, and is
the receptacle of those after death, who are in
wardly wicked. In the midst of it there is an open
communication with Hell, into which the inhabi
tants sink down, and are swallowed up in their
turns.”
SPECIM ENS OF BARON Swed EN BORG's CoMMEN
TARIES ON THE BOOK OF GENESIS.
The following commentaries are extracted from
the Baron's Arcana Caelestia, vol. i. And it must
be observed that the Baron has taken the liberty
to new translate the text: I shall therefore give
the text as he has rendered it.
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 117
Gen. Chap. ii. 18.—And Jehovah said, it is
not good that man should be alone, I will make
him an help as with him. By being alone is sig
nified, that he was not content to be guided by the
Lord, but desired to be under the guidance of self
and the world. By an help as with him, is signi
fied proprium, which in the subsequent verse is
called a rib built into a woman,
Verses 19, 20. And out of the ground Jehovah
God ſormed every beast of the field, and every
foul of the heavens, &c.—but to the man there was
not found an help as with him. By beasts are
signified the celestial affections; by fowls of the
heavens the spiritual, or by the beasts are signi
fied the things appertaining to the will, and by
fowls the things appertaining to the understand
ing, &c.
Verse 21. And Jehovah God caused a deep
sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept, and he took
one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in the place
thereof. By rib, which is a hone of the breast, is
meant man's proprium, wherein there is but little of
any vital principle, and indeed a proprium which
is dear to him: by flesh in place of the rib, is meant
a proprium in which there is a vital principle:
by a deep sleep is meant that state into which he
was let, that he seemed to himself to have pro
118 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
prium, which state is like that of sleep, because
in that state he knoweth no other, but that he
liveth, thinketh, speaketh, and acteth of himself;
but when he beginneth to know that this is false,
he then starteth as it were out of sleep, and be
cometh awake.
Verse 22. And the rib which Jehovah had
taken from man, he builded into a woman. By
building is signified to raise up what was fallen:
by rib is signified proprium not vivified : by wo—
man proprium vivified by the Lord: by bringing
her to the man, that proprium was granted him.
The posterity of this church, not willing like their
parents to be a celestial man, but to be under
their own self-guidance, and thereby inclining to
proprium, had a proprium granted them, but still
vivified by the Lord, wherefore it is called woman,
and afterwards wife.
Verse 23. And the man said, this now is bone
of my bone and flesh of my flesh; therefore she
shall be called wife because she was taken out of
man. Bone of bone, and flesh of flesh, signifies
the proprium of the external man; bone proprium
scarcely vivified; flesh proprium vivified ; man
signifies the internal man, and whereas this inter
nal man is copulated with the external, according
to the description in the subsequent verse, there
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 119
fore this proprium is called wife, which was
before called woman : now signifies that it was
now effected thus, because the state was changed.
Verse 24. Therefore shall a man leave his
father and mother, aud shall cleave unto his wife,
and they shall be one flesh. To leave father and
mother is to leave the internal man, for it is the
internal which conceiveth and bringeth forth the
external: to cleave unto a wife, signifyeth that
the internal is in the external: to be one flesh
meaneth that they are therein united together,
and that heretofore the internal, and the external
from the internal, were spirit, but that they are
now made flesh. Thus celestial and spiritual life
was adjoined to proprium that they might be one.
Verse 25. And they were both naked, the man
and his wife, and they were not ashamed. Their
being naked, and not ashamed, signifies that they
were innocent, viz. that the Lord insinuated inno
cence into their proprium, to prevent its being
unpleasant, or disagreeable.
Chap. v. 23, 24. And all the days of Enoch
were three hundred and sixty and five years.
And Enoch walked with God, and was not, for
God took him. By all the days of Enoch being
three hundred and sixty and five years, is signified
that they were few : by his walking with God is
120 THE ANTI-SW EDEN RORG.
º
signified, doctrine respecting faith. By this
expression, “He was not, for God took him”, is
signified that that doctrine was preserved for the
use of posterity.
Verse 25. And Methuselah lived an hundred
eighty and seven years and begat Lamech. By
Methuselah is signified an eighth church, and by
Lamech a ninth.
Verse 28. And Lamech lived an hundred eighty
and two years and begat a son. By Lamech is
here signified a ninth church, wherein the percep
tion of truth and goodness was become so common.
and obscure, that it was next to none, and thus
the church was vastated: by son is signified the
rise of a new church.
Verse 29. And he called his name Noah, say
ing he shall comfort us concerning our work and
toil of our hands, out of the ground which Jeho
vah hath cursed. By Noah is signified the ancient
church; by comforting us concerning our work
and toil of our hands out of the ground which
Jehovah hath cursed, is signified doctrine, where
by what had been perverted would be restored.
Verse 30, 31. And Lamech lived after he
begat Noah five hundred ninety and five years,
and begat sons and daughters. And all the days
of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 121
*
years and he died. By Lamech is signified, as
was said, the church vastated: by sons and daugh
ters are signified the conceptions and births of
such a church.
Verse 32. And Noah was a son of five hun
dred years; and Noah begat Shem, Ham, and
Japhet. By Noah is signified, as was said, the
ancient church: by Shem, Ham, and Japhet, are
signified three ancient churches, the parent where
of was the ancient church called Noah.
The above specimens may suffice to give the
reader a tolerable idea of Baron Swedenborg's
Arcana Celestia; and many will, no doubt, think
with the publisher of these extracts, that the
commentaries are far more mysterious than the
text.
CONCERN ING THE STATE AND NATURE OF MAN
AFTER DEATH : WITH A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF
THE SPIRITUAL WORLD.
792. “Who doth not know, or might not know,
that man liveth after death, in consequence of his
being born man, and created an image of God,
and because the Lord in his Word asserteth the
doctrine of a future life? With respect however
to the state and nature of this future life, man
kind have heretofore remained in the dark; it hath
M
122 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
been generally believed that man after death is a
mere soul, and the common idea concerning such
soul hath been, that it is something like aether, or
air, consequently that it is like the breath which
goeth out of a man's body when he dies, in which
nevertheless there resideth some vital principle;
but then it hath been conceived that this vital prin
ciple neither hath the faculty of seeing, such as
belongeth to the eye, nor of hearing, such as
belongeth to the ear, nor of speaking, such as be
longeth to the organs ofspeech; when nevertheless
man after death is as much a man as he was before,
and so little changed, that he does not know but he
is still living in the former world; for he seeth,
heareth, and speaketh, as in the former world;
he walketh, runneth, and sitteth, as in the former
world: he lieth down, sleepeth, and waketh, as in
the former world ; he eateth and drinketh as in the
former world; he enjoyeth conjugal delight as in
the former world; in a word, he is a man in all
and every respect. From which circumstances it
is evident, that death is not an extinction but a
continuation of life, and consequently that it is
only a passage from one state to another.
793. The difference between a man in the
natural world and a man in the spiritual world is,
that the latter man is cloathed with a substantial
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 123
body, but the former with a material body, within
which is his substantial body, and a substantial
man seeth a substantial man as clearly and dis
tinctly, as a material man seeth a material man; a
substantial man however cannot see a material
man, nor can a material man see a substantial man,
by reason of the difference between what is mate
rial and what is substantial, the nature of which
difference may be described, but not in a few
words.
794. In consequence of what I have seen,
and been an eye-witness of for many years toge
ther, I can assert the following facts relating to
the spiritual world; that there are earths in that
world, just as in the matural world, and that there
are also plains and valleys, mountains and hills,
fountains and rivers; that there are paradises,
gardens, groves, and woods; that there are cities
with palaces and houses contained therein; also
that there are writings and books, employments
and merchandises; and that there are gold, silver,
and precious stones; in a word, that there is in the
spiritual world all and every thing that is in the
natural world, but that in heaven such things are
in an infinitely more perfect state. The difference
is, that all things which are seen in the spiritual
world, are created in a moment by the Lord, as
M 2
124 THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG.
houses, paradises, meats, and other things, and
that they are created according to a correspon
dence with the interiors of angels and spirits, that
is, of their affections and thoughts; whereas all
things that are seen in the natural world begin
to exist and grow from seed.” True Christian
Religion.
AN ANGEL CAST Dow N FROM HEAVEN For PRo:
FESSING H IS BELIEF IN THE PERSON ALITY OF
THE SON OF GOD.—“MEMORABLE RELATION,
No. 110.”
“I once saw in the spiritual world a me
teor (ignis fatuus) in the air, falling to the ground,
encompassed about with a lucid brightness, and I
remarked the place where it fell; but, as is the
case with all such phaenomena, about sun-rise it
totally disappeared. The next morning I went to
the place where I had observed the meteor to fall
the night before, and behold the ground therea
bouts was a composition of sulphur, iron-filings,
and common clay; and suddenly there appeared
two tents, one immediately over the place, and the
other beside it, towards the south; then I looked
upwards, and saw a certain spirit falling down
from heaven like lightning, into the tent which
stood directly over the spot where the meteor fell,
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 125
whilst I was standing in the door of the other tent,
which was beside it towards the south; and pre
sently I observed the spirit standing also at the
door of his tent, and immediately I asked him the
reason of his falling so precipitately from Heaven?
To which he answered, “I was cast down by the
angels of Michael, as being an angel of the dragon,
because I made some discoveries concerning the
faith which I had embraced and confirmed in the
world, particularly that God the Father, and God
the Son are not one, but two persons; for, at this
day, all the angels in heaven believe that they are
One, like soul and body; and every word that
contradicts that belief, causeth in them the same
emotion and pain as if they should snuff up some
pungent powder into their nostrils, or as if one
should bore their ears through with an awl; where
fore, whosoever uttereth such contradiction, is
ordered to depart, and in case of refusal or reluc
tance, he is cast down headlong.” True Christ,
Relig.
THE FOLLOWING WILL SHEW THAT THE BARON
wiTH ALL HIS FAITH AND CHARITY, COULD AL
MOST COPY THE LANGUAGE OF INFIDELS.
770. “When a clergyman or layman is asked,
whether he firmly believeth that the Antediluvians,
M 3
126 THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG.
together with Adam and Eve, and the Postdilu
vians, together with Noah and his sons, and also
that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, together with
all the prophets and apostles, in like manner as the
souls of all other men, are still reserved in the
middle parts of the earth, or flying about in the
aether, or air; and also whether he believeth that
their souls will be again cloathed with their bodies,
and enter into connection again with carcases
eaten by worms, by mice, by fish, (or as in the
case of Egyptian mummies) by men, and with ske
letons parched in the sun, and reduced to powder;
if clergymen or laymen, I say, be asked whether
they believe all this, or whether such conceits are
not mere paradoxes, which like all other contra
dictory notions are dispelled and dissipated by
right reason, some of them make no reply to such
questions; some insist that such points are
matters of faith, and that the understanding ought
to be kept in obedience thereto; some again argue
that not only these things, but also many others,
which are above the comprehension of reason, are
of the divine omnipotence; and when they mention
faith and omnipotence, sound reason is set aside,
and either disappears like a thing annihilated, or
becometh like a spectre, and is called a thing un
sound; to this they add, are not such opinions
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 127
agreeable to the Word? and ought not that to be
the rule and measure of whatsoever we think or
speak º’ True Christ. Relig.
BARON's SwedEN BORG’s EGOTISM.
779. “Inasmuch as the Lord cannot manifest
himself in person, as was shewn above, and yet he
foretold that he should come, and establish a new
church, which is the New Jerusalem, it follows,
that he will effect this by a man, who not only can
receive the doctrines of that church in his under
standing, but also publish them in print. That the
Lord hath manifested himself before ME his ser
vant, and sent me on this office, and that after
wards he opened the sight ofmy spirit, and thereby
let me into the spiritual world, and granted me to
see the heavens and the hells, and also to converse
with angels and spirits, and this now continually
for several years, I testify in truth; and further,
that from the first day of my call to this office, I
never received any thing appertaining to the doc
trines of that church from any angel, but from the
Lord alone, whilst I was reading the Word.”
True Christ. Relig.
12S THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
THE HARLOT AND THE DEAD HORSE IN THE
SPIRITUAL WORLD.—“MEMORABLE RELATION,
No. 277.”
“I was one day, in the spirit, traversing
various parts of the spiritual world, to the intent
that I might observe the representations of celes
tial things, which are there exhibited in many
places; and in a certain house, where there were
angels, I saw large purses, in which were con
tained great sums of money; and whereas they
were open, it seemed as if any person might take
out, or even steal away, the money there deposited;
but near the purses there sat two young men as
guards; the place where the purses were laid,
appeared like a manger in a stable; in an adjoin
ing apartment were seen modest virgins, with a
chaste married woman; and near that apartment
stood two little children, and it was given me
to understand, that they were not to be played
with like children, but to be treated according to
wisdom. Afterwards there appeared an harlot,
and also a dead horse lying on the ground. When
I had attended to these appearances, I was in
formed, that by them was represented the natural
sense of the Word, in which the spiritual sense is
contained; the great purses full of money signified
knowledges of truth in great abundance; their
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 129
being open, and yet guarded by young men, signi
fied that every one might take thence the know
ledges of truths, but that care is taken lest any one
should violate the spiritual sense, wherein are
mere truths; the stable-like manger signified spi
ritual nourishment for the understanding; this is
the signification for manger, by reason that a
horse, which feedeth out of it, signifieth under
standing; the modest virgins, who appeared in
the adjoining apartment, signified the affections of
truth, and the chaste married woman the conjunc
tion of goodness and truth; the young children
signified innocence of wisdom, for the angels of the
highest heaven, who are the wisest of all, by reason
of their innocence, appear at a distance like little
children; the harlot with the dead horse, signifieth
the falsification of truth amongst many people at
this day, whereby the understanding of the Word
is totally lost: harlot signifieth falsification, and a
dead horse the understanding of truth annihilated.”
True Christ. Religion.
** CONCERNING THE MAHOMETANS IN THE SPIRI
TUAL WORLD.—No. 828.”
“The Mahometans in the spiritual world appear
behind the Roman Catholics in the west, and form
130 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
a kind of circle around them. The reason of their
appearing next behind the christians is, because
they acknowledge our Lord as the greatest and
wisest of prophets, who was sent into the world to
instruct mankind, and also confess him to be the
Son of God. Every one in that world dwelleth at
a distance from the centre, where the christians
inhabit, according to his confession of the Lord
and of one God; for that confession joineth minds
with Heaven, and causeth their distance from the
east, over which point the Lord is.
830. The real Mahomet, who wrote the Alcoran,
is not visible amongst the Mahometans at this day.
I have been informed, that on his first entrance
into the spiritual world, he was appointed to pre
side over them, but because he desired to have do
minion over all things relating to their religion, as
a God, he was removed from his abode which he had
beneath the Roman Catholics, and was let down
to a lower habitation on the right side next the
south. A certain society of Mahometans was once
instigated by some evil spirits to acknowledge
Mahomet as a God, and in order to appease the
disturbance on that occasion, Mahomet was raised
up from the earth beneath, and produced to their
view, and at the same time also he was seen by
me; he appeared like to corporeal spirits, who
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 131
have no interior perception; his face was ofa dusky
complexion, and I heard him utter these words:
“I am your Mahomet,” and presently he seemed
to sink down again.
834. It was once given me to perceive what is
the nature and quality ofpolygamical love amongst
the Mahometans; I was conversing with a certain
person who acted in the office and character of
Mahomet, and after some conversation at a dis
tance with him, he transmitted to me an ebony
spoon, and other things, which were tokens that
they came from him; and at the same instant a
communication was opened from various places
for the heat of their polygamical love, which from
some felt like the heat in baths after bathing; from
some like the heat in kitchens where flesh is boil
ing; from some like the heat in cooks' shops where
stinking meat is exposed to sale; from some like
what is perceived in an apothecary’s shop, where
emulsions and other medicines are prepared; from
some like the heat in stews and bagnios; and from
some like what is felt in shops where skins, leather,
and shoes are exposed to sale. There was also in
that heat something of a rancid, austere, and
burning quality, arising from jealousy; whereas
the heat in the christian heavens, when the delight
of their love is perceived as an odour, is attended
132 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
with fragrance like what is experienced in gardens
and vineyards, and shrubberies; and in some
places it is like the odour perceivable in shops
where aromatic herbs are exposed to sale; and
in other places like the scent arising from wine
presses or wine vaults. That the delights attend
ing all kinds of love in the spiritual world are fre
quently perceived as odours, hath been constantly
shewn in the MEMORABLE RELATIONS annexed
to each chapter of this work.” Thue Christ. Relig.
CONCERNING INFANTS IN HEAVEN.
“THAT THE LOVE OF INFANTS REMA INS AFTER
DEATH, ESPECIALLY WITH WOMEN.
410. “Infants, as soon as they are raised up,
which is effected immediately after their decease,
are elevated into heaven, and are delivered up to
angels, who are of the female sex, and who in the
life of the body in the world loved infants, and at
the same time feared God; these, inasmuch as
they had loved all infants with maternal tenderness,
receive them as their own, and the infants in this
case, as from a principle implanted, love them as
their mothers; as many infants are consigned to
them, as they desire from a spiritual storge. The
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 133
heaven, in which infants are, appears in front in
the region of the forehead, in a line, or radius, in
which the angels look directly at the Lord ; the
situation of that heaven is such, because all infants
are educated under the immediate anspices of the
Lord; there is an influx also into this heaven from
the heaven of innocence, which is the third heaven.
When they have passed through this first period
of their life, they are transferred to another heaven,
where they are instructed.
“THAT INFANTS ARE EDUCATED UNDER THE LORD's
AUSPICES BY SUCH WOMEN, AND GROW IN STA
TURE AND INTELLIGENCE AS IN THE WORLD.
411. “Infants in heaven are educated in the
following manner: they learn to speak from the
female angel who has the charge of their educa
tion; their first speech is merely the sound of af
fection, in which however there is somewhat initial
of thought, whereby the human principle in the
sound is distinguished from the sound of an ani
mal; this speech by degrees becomes more dis
tinct, as ideas derived from affection enter the
thought; all their affections, which also have
growth, proceed from innocence. At first, such
things are insinuated into them as appear before
their eyes, and are delightful; and whereas these
N
134 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
things are from a spiritual origin, the things of
heaven flow into them at the same time, whereby
the interiors of their minds are opened. After
wards the infants, as they are perfected in intelli
gence, so they grow in stature, and viewed in this
respect, they appear also more adult; the reason
is, because intelligence and wisdom is essential
spiritual nourishment, therefore those things which
nourish their minds, nourish also their bodies.
But infants in heaven do not grow up beyond their
first age, and there they stop, and remain therein
to eternity. And when they are in that age they
are given to marriage, * which is provided of the
Lord, and is celebrated in the heaven where the
youth is, who presently follows the wife into her
heaven, or into her house, if they are in the same
society. That I might know of a certainty that
infants grow in stature, and arrive at maturity as
they grow in intelligence, it was given me to speak
with some whilst they were infants, and afterwards
with them when they were grown up, and they
appeared as full grown youths, in a stature like to
that of young men full grown in the world.
* “For in the Resurrection they neither marry nor are given
in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven.”
Jesus CHRIST, Matt. xxii. 30.
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 135
412. Infants are instructed, especially by re
presentatives adequate and conformable to their
genius, the beauty whereof, and fulness of interior
wisdom can scarce be credited in the world. It is
allowable to adduce here two representations, from
which a conclusion may be formed in regard to the
rest. On a time they represented the Lord as
cending from the sepulchre, and at the same time
the unition of his human (principle) with the di
vine; at first they represented the idea of a se
pulchre, but not at the same time the idea of the
Lord, except so remotely, that it was scarce per
ceived that it was the Lord, unless as it were from
afar, by reason that in the idea of a sepulchre there
is somewhat funeral, which they thereby removed.
Afterwards they cautiously admitted into the se
pulchre somewhat atmospherical, appearing never
theless as an attenuated watery principle, whereby
they signified, and this also by a suitable degree of
remoteness, spiritual life in baptism. I afterwards
saw represented by them the Lord's descent to
those who were bound, and his ascent with them
into heaven ; and in order to accommodate the
representation to their infant minds, they let down
small cords scarcely discernible, exceedingly soft
and tender, to aid the Lord in the ascent, being
always influenced by a holy fear, lest any thing in
N 2 .
136 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
the representation should touch any principle but
what was under celestial influence. Not to men
tion other representations, whereby infants are
introduced into the knowledges of truth and the
affections of good, as by sports adapted to their
capacities. To these and similar things infants
are led of the Lord by innocence passing through
the third heaven, and thus spiritual things are in
sinuated into their affections, and thence into their
tender thoughts, so that they know no other than
that they do and think such things from them
selves, whereby their understanding is initiated.
Conjugial Love.
A SAMPLE OF Swed EN BORG’s LEARNED JARGON.
185. “All and singular the things which exist
in the spiritual world and in the natural world,
coexist from discrete degrees and at the same time
from continuous degrees, or from degrees of alti
tude and degrees of latitude; that dimension,
which consists of discrete degrees, is called alti
tude, and that which consists of continuous de
grees, is called latitude, their situation with respect
to the sight of the eye does not change their deno
mination. Without a knowledge of these degrees,
nothing can be known concerning the difference
THE ANTI-SWEDEN BORG. 137
between the three heavens, nor the difference
between the love and wisdom of the angels there,
nor the difference between the heat and light in
which they are, nor the difference between the
atmospheres which surround and contain them.
Moreover without a knowledge of these degrees,
nothing can be known concerning the difference of
the interior faculties of the mind in men; there
fore neither any thing concerning their state as to
reformation and regeneration; nor of the difference
of the exterior faculties, which are of the body, as
well of angels as men; and nothing at all of the
difference between spiritual and natural, and there
fore nothing of correspondence; yea nothing of
any difference of life between men and beasts, or
of the difference between the more perfect and the
imperfect beasts; nor of the differences between
the forms of the vegetable kingdom, and between
the materials which compose the mineral kingdom.
From which considerations it may appear, that
they who are ignorant of these degrees, cannot
from anyjudgment see causes, they only see effects,
and judge of causes from them, which is done for
the most part from induction continuous with
effects; when nevertheless causes do not produce
effects by continuity, but discretely; for a cause is
one thing, and an effect another, there is a differ
N 3
138 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
ence as between prior and posterior, or as between
the thing forming and the thing formed.
Wisdom of Angels.
ANGELS DESCENDENTS OF THE HUMAN RACE.
330. “Forasmuch as the end of creation is the
angelic heaven from the human race, consequently
the human race itself, therefore all the other things
which are created are mediate ends; which, foras
much as they have relation to man, respect these
three things appertaining to him, his body, his ra
tional principle, and his spiritual principle, for the
sake of conjunction with the Lord ; for man cannot
bejoined to the Lord unless he be spiritual; nor can
he be spiritual unless he be rational; neither can
he be rational unless his body be in a sound state;
these things are like a house, the body is like the
foundation, the rational principle is like the super
structure ofthe house, the spiritual principle is like
the things which are in the house, and conjunc
tion with the Lord is like habitation. Hence it is
evident in what order, degree and respect, uses,
which are the mediate ends of creation, have rela
tion to man, namely, for the sustaining his body,
the perfecting his rational principle, and the re
ceiving a spiritual principle from the Lord.
Wisdom of Angels. -
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 139
swedENBoRG's ExPLANATION OF OUR SAVIOUR's
PRAYING TO HIS FATHER.
110. “That the Lord, when he was in the
world, prayed to the Father, as to a distinct person,
and humbled himself before the Father, as before
a distinct person, was in conformity to the order
established at creation, which is immutable, ac
cording to which every one must proceed towards
conjunction with God. The condition of this
order is, that in proportion as man joineth himself
to God, by living according to the laws of order,
which are the divine precepts, in the same pro
portion God joineth himself to man, and from na
tural maketh him spiritual; according to this same
law, the Lord united himself to his Father, and
God the Father united himself to him ; for was
not the Lord, when an infant, like an infant, and
when a child, like a child 2 Is it not written, that
he increased in wisdom and favour? and after
wards, that he prayed the Father to glorify his
name, that is, his humanity, by which glorification
is signified to make it divine by union with him
self? Hence it is evident, that the Lord prayed
to the Father in the state of his eximanition, or
emptying himself, which was the state of his pro
gress towards union. This same order is inscribed
on every man since the creation of the world, viz.
140 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG.
that as he prepareth his understanding by truths
from the word of God, he thereby fitteth it to re
ceive faith from God; and as he prepareth his will
by works of charity, he thereby fitteth it to receive
love from God; just as ajeweller fitteth a diamond
to receive and emit the brightness of the light,
according to his manner of cutting it. T. C. R.
GOD's POWER OF REDEMPTION CIRCUMSCRIBED
BY BARON SWEDEN BORG.—“MEMORABLE RELA
TION, No. 73.”
“God could not, with all his omnipotence, have
redeemed mankind, unless he had himself been
made man; nor could he have made his humanity
divine, unless it had been at first like the humanity
of an infant, and afterwards like that of a child,
and lastly had fashioned itself to be a recipient,
and habitation, into which its father might enter,
as was effected by fulfilling all things contained in
the Holy Scriptures, that is, all the laws of order
therein; for in proportion as this was accomplished,
the humanity united itself to the Father, and the
Father united himself to the humanity. T. C. R.
CHRIST's SITTING AT THE RIGHT HAND OF GoD
EXPLAIN ED BY BARON SWEDEN BORG.—“MEMO
RABLE RELATION, No. 136.”
“By sitting on the right hand, is not meant
literally to sit on the right hand, but it signifies
THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG. 141
the omnipotence of God by means of the humanity
which he assumed in the world; by this humanity he
is in the last and lowest parts of nature, as well as in
the first and purest principles of spirit; by this he
entered into, destroyed and subdued the hells, by
this he reduced the heavens under order and regu
lation; consequently by this he redeemed both men
and angels, and redeemeth them to all eternity. If
ye consult the Word of God, and are in a capacity to
receive illumination, ye will be enabled to discover
that by the right hand is there meant omnipotence,
as in Isaiah, “MINE HAND hath laid the foun
dation of the earth, and MY RIGHT HAND hath
spanned the heavens,” Chap. xlviii. 13. “The
Lord hath sworn by his RIGHT HAND, and by
the arm of his strength,” lxii. 8. “THY RIGHT
HAND hath holden ºne up,” Psalm xviii. 35. “Let
thy HAND be upon the MAN OF THY RIGHT
HAND, and upon the Son of Man whom thou
madest so strong for thine own self.” Psalm lxxx.
17. Hence it is evident how this passage is to be
understood, “Jehovah said unto my Lord, Sit thou
at MY Right HAND, until I make thine enemies
thy footstool: The Lord shall send the rod of thy
strength out of Sion ; rule, thou in the midst of
thine enemies,” Psalm cy. 1, 2. This whole psalm
throughout treateth of the Lord's combats with the
142 THE ANTI-SW EDEN BORG."
hells, and of his conquests over them; and since
the right hand of God signifieth omnipotence,
therefore the Lord saith, that he shall sit at “THE
RIGHT HAND of Power,” Matt. xxvi. 63, 64;
and at “THE RIGHT HAND of THE POWER OF
GoD,” Luke xxii. 69. True Christ. Religion.
THE APOSTLES SENT FORTH IN THE SPIRITUAL
WORLD TO PREACH the GOSPEL.
791. “The Lord called together his twelve dis
ciples, who followed him in the world; and the next
day he sent them throughout the whole SPIRITUAL
WoRLD, topreach the Gospel, thatthe LORD GoD
JESUS CHRIST reigneth, whose kingdom shall en
dure for ever and ever, according to the prophecy in
Daniel, Chap. vii. 13, 14; and in the Revelation,
Chap. xi. 15; “And that blessed are they who come
to the marriage supper of the Lamb,” Revel. xix.9;
this was done on the 19th day of June, in the year
1770. This is understood by these words of the
Lord, “He shall send his Angels, and they shallga
ther together his elect from one end ofheaven to the
other.” Matth. xxiv. 31. True Christ. Religion.
The en D.
Printed by S. Wilkin, Upper Haymarket, Norwieh.
/ 2
tie
Ol.
THE WARRIOR'S LOOKING-GLASS: wherein is shewn
from many high authorities, the trivial causes, cruel nature, direful
effects, and anti-christian spirit and practice of War. 2s. boards.
FIXED STARS: being an analyzation and refutation of ASTRO
LOGY: the principles of this science being plainly laid open, and
their absurdity and wickedness clearly demonstrated. With many
anecdotes shewing the mischievous effects of Fortune Telling and
Planet Reading. 2s, boards. -
Also recently Published by
S. WILKIN, UPPER HAY MARKET, NORWICH.
1. DEVOTIONAL EXERCISES, for the use of Young Persons,
with A TREATISE ON THE LORD'S SUPPER. By a Lady.
12mo. 3s. 6d. -
2. SELECT HYMNS, for the Use of Young Persons. By Pris
cilla Gurney. Third Edition. 18mo.2s. 4th Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 5s.
3. cours fºlíMENTAIRE DE LITTÉRATURE GENE
RALE, ou Analyse raisonnée des différens genres de compositions
littéraires et des meilleurs ouvrages classiques, anciens et modernes,
Français et etrangers; a l'usage de la jeunesse: contenant un choix
de morceaux et de traductions des auteurs les plus estimés : extrait
de la Harpe, le Batteux, Jancourt, Diderot, Marmontel, Voltaire, Le
Breton, Hautpoul, Lemercier, &c. By M. de Rouillon. Foolscap
8vo. 5s. A sequel is in preparation.
4. GRAMMATICAL INSTITUTES of the FRENCH LAN
GUAGE ; or the Teacher's French Assistant; containing a series of
Theoretic, Practical, and Progressive Lessons, in which every diffi
culty is explained, either in notes at the end of each Exercise, or by
references to preceding Rules. By the same Author. Foolscap. 8vo.
Second Edition, 5s.
5. EXERCISES ON FRENCH CONVERSATION ; or a
selection of English sentences to be translated into French; and in
which the difference of the idioms, genius, and phraseology, of the
French and English languages, may be easily distinguished. By the
same Author. Second Edition, foolscap 8vo. half bound, 3s.6d.
6. KEY to the EXERCISES on FRENCH CONVERSATION.
By the same Author. Foolscap 8vo. 1s. 6d. sewed.
7. A new and complete ANALYTICAL TABLE of the GEN
DERS of all the FRENCH NOUNS. By which one of the greatest
difficulties of the French language is entirely removed. By the
same Author. 31d Edition, royal 8vo. 3s.6d. sewed.
8. A HISTORY of the VARIOLOUS EPIDEMIC in NOR
WICH. By John Cross. Demy 8vo. 9s,
9. DEFENCE of “BAPTISM A TERM of communion”.
By Joseph Kinghorn. Demy 8vo. 6s.
10. A DEFENCE OF THE BAPTISTS. By George Gibbs.
Demy 8vo. 4s. 6d.
11. THE ARGUMENT in support of Infant Baptism from the
Covenant of Circumcision, examined and shewn to be Invalid. By
Joseph Kinghorn. 12mo. 2d. each or 12s. per hundred.
12. CATECHISM of the USE of the GLOBES. Part I. Terres
trial. Part II. Celestial. By S. Wilkin. 18mo. 9d, each.
NEARLY READY FOR PUBLICATION,
ROBERTSON (Jacobi) CLAVIS PENTATEUCHI, Editio
altera, auction et emendation, cura Josephi Kinghorn. Svo.
OBSERVATIONS. on the RELIGIOUS PECULIARITIES
of the SOCIETY of FRIENDS. By J. J. Gurney, 8vo.
ov
** \
