{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1824__hibbert___sketches_of_the_philosophy_of_apparitions.pdf","mytitle":"Sketches Of The Philosophy Of Apparitions","mylang":"de"}
r- - --
~
SKETCHES
dr Tin:
PHILOSOPHY OF APPARITIONS;
oa,
AN ATTEMPT TO TRACE SUCH ILLUSIONS TO
THEIR PHYSICAL CAUSES.
BY SAMUEL HIBBERT, M.D.,
' -==-
F.R.S.E.,
aca.TARY TO TD 80Cm'I'Y OF 8COTTI8B ANTIQIIAJUU. IDIIDR CW 'I'D IIOYA&.
-CAL AJOIIt ---.u< IIOCiaTia8 f1'llllllf811110B, OFTUi'lll~
IIOCiftY or IIIAJICBII'na ...
- - - - " I' tbe DUDe ol trutll,
.An ye llmtaltlcal, or tbat IJldeed
Wbioll outwanlly ye abow?"-Jfddd.._
;).
EDINBURGH;
A BOYD, TWEEDDALE.OOURT, HIGB.STB.EET 1
G. 4: W. B. WHITTAKER, AVE-HARIA-LANE,
LONDON.
1824.
I
/J?~; ~.,1,.2,,
~~~t3~
·,
1.·:'
.,
.. ). .
PREFACE.
DuB.ING the course of the last winter I had the
honour of reading an Essay on Spectral Impres-
sions to the Royal Society of Edinburgh. What-
ever interest it·excited was rather due to .the sub-
ject, than to thil degree of success with which a
theory of apparitions could possibly be discussed
in the limits of a short paper. This consideration
therefore, among others, has given rise to the pre-
sent volume.
The planof this work may here be 9riefly stated.
In the first place, a general view is given of the
·particular morbid affections with which the produc-
tion of phantasms is often connected. Apparitions
.are likewise considered a8 nothing more than ideas
or the ncollected ·images of the mind, which have
been rendered more vivid than actual impressions.
In a ·second part of this work, my object has
been to point out; that, in well-authenticated ghost-
stories of a suppoeed supernatural character, the
iaeas which are rendered so· unduly \Ptense as to
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
·IV
.iadnce'spectral illusions, may ·be tt8oea:to ·8uclt
fantasticalobjects of prior beliefas are iocorpoi-ateh
:in ·th~ v'uious 9_1stems &f· sttperstltioo, -which· fur
. .ages have ~ the minds of the vulgar.
Ia.the succeeding and far most considerablepart
411 dais tteat.iae, the research i& of a novel kind.
.$iDee a~BS Re icl-. ettualling or exceedmg
ill .WidDe'IIS actual impressit>Ds,. there ought to he
some important and defi.Di.te la.w&of themindwbid:t
'*ve gi.Ten riee to thia undue degree of vivdness.
It is ehie6y,·therefcre, for the purpose Of~
ing such ta•s that this disseri&tian is written.
But I here eiKer into a. perfectly n~w fte1d Of
research, where far greater difficulties are to bt: ea..
eountered dum I anticipated. The extent ofthese
can only be estimated by the ~physician.
The last ~ of this· dissertation waa to.have
elltabliehed, that all the subordinate incidents con-
ftected With phantasms might .be explained on
the following general principle :-That in every
lftldue exeitement of our feelings, (as, for iftstance,
~ ideas become more vivid than actual impres-
~)· ~·ope)'stions of tbe intelleduitf'flajltyCJl
the mind sustain oorresponding·'Jddi&cutioos, 'by
whieh the .eKons of .the j..Wgment are rendeied
o,, '"' ,,Google
~ iaconeut.. ·Bat :llhe lal!lll•---.
J~-.-~Gfthia-:work~ '-~
oblipl~to suspend iueh·an.inteatio-, is, ." - a
+t-ot.this- nature ~be !uempted -
b'llt in
ODiliUJ.tioa·with alM08t all the pheDOmP& d .the
k~ miDd. -To punile the .inquiry, tbenfote,
uy fartl!er, woald be w make a diaaenatioo Clll
apparitions the absurd vebiele of a replar syetem
rlmetaphywics.,..
'.l'.IUs work is not addreued to any 'pamcw.r
dill of leaders. As-we live in an • aceeded by
110 prerious ~ne for the desire of information, ad
• \here is a geaeral intel'e8t excited OD the subject
G.appuitioas, which are properly reganled u UD-
expllined phenomena, I have not thought fit to
fashion this discourse to the exclusive taste eitlaa-
of Dietaphysicians or physiologists; but, on the
U)ntrary, have so endeavoured to treat it, that,
'llitbout 8!1.1Y previous study of the sciences which
itinvol~ it may be fully understood. Yet the
~er_ougbt by no means to Batter himself, that be
~ill -~~ to eomprebend the laws which give
~~ tp.~aotasms without any Qlen~ ~erti~n 0:11
~ ~ ~ . . •,.
vi .PREFACE.
'hisown part. The phenomena, which for ages have
pU.Zzled the mo8t learned men in the ·world, are
·not to be thus easily dealt with.
I ·aliall, last!J, remark, tlutt ~he illustrations
which appear in the course of this work are not
.more numerous than the treatise requires; my ob-
ject being not only to render the principles that I.
have inculcated as intelligible as possible; but to
direct the attention of the reader less to the vul-
gar ·absurdities which are blended· with ghost-
stories, than to the important philosophical infer-
ences that are frequently to be deduced from
them. The subject of apparitions has, indeed, for
centuries, occupied the attention of the learned;
but seldom without r~ference to superst~tious spe-
culations. · It is time, however, that these illusions
·should be viewed in a perfectly different .light; .
for, if the conclusions to ·which I .have arrived
be correct, they are calcuJated, more than almost
every other class of mental phenomena~ ·to throw
consi~ble light upon certain impottant: laws
.connected with the pbylliology of the ~~mafl~mind.
' ·•.
• 1 , I • 1 ; , • , • : _: ·. ' ·.; ~
WM.J&.'fOII'·P£AeZ, EDIXBU'RG·H1 ·~-' .,· i' . !.'!.:-~
'3ai;l<~ 1PtJrlrarfi'1;· 13t4; . •.:.
CONTENTS..
InuoduaioD,
CHAP. 1. Remarkable Cue of Spectral Illusions,
11. The Pathology of Spectral Illusions,
III. Spectral Illusions resulting from the highly-ex-
cited States of particular Temperaments,
IV. Spectral Illusions ariaing from the Hyatatic
Temperament,
V. Speetral lllusiona occurring from the Neglect
of accustomed Periodical Blood-letting,
VI. The Spectral Illuiiona.which occasioaally oc:eur
as Hectic Symptoms,
VII. Spectral Illusions from Febrile and Inflamma-
tory Affections,
VIII. Speetral Illusions ariaing from InJiammation ol
the Brain,
IX.. Speetral Illusions arising from a highly-excited
State of Nervoua Irritability acting generally
on the System,
X. The Spectzal IDueiooa of Bypoc:hoodriacs,
XL Certain leaa-frequent Morbid Soun:es of Spec-
tl'al Illusions,
Xll. Remarks on the Apparitions of Good 8piritl,
recorded in Popular Narratins,
Xlll. General Remarks on the Apparitions connected
· with Demonology,
XIV. General R-ks on the Appuitio..of .D.put-
.....I
3
9
21
34
46
48
66
70
80
82
·.89
118
ed Spirits, · 166
]f..V. IJ'he. VarieDell of Effects Jeaulting tr.n IAida.
Morbific Causes as are capable of rendering
more vivid the Feelings of the Mind, 178
XVL The lllusiona of Drama, aa 4iMirlguillltd.MIIl
the Spectral lmpreasions fit our ~akiug
BOIIl'l, 213
viii CONTENTS.
Pop
CHAP. XVII. The EfFect or Mental Excitements upon Con.
· eeiousness, !ISO
XVIIL Summaryorthe comparatinDegreea orFaint-
ness, Vividness, or Intensity, subsisting be-
tweenSenaations and Ideas during their various
Excitementa aDdD~euioDa,. , 243
XIX. The various Eseitemeota att4 Depreuioqa con-
nected with Sleep and Watchfulness, 1146
XX. The otder of Phenome~~a el!servable in extreme
Mental Excitements, !163
XXI. Indications afForded by Mental Excitements.,
tba• Organat of SeDI&tion are the MecHum
throogh which past Feeling~ are teBOYatell, 186
XXII. The Cau~e~ which excite Orgau ef Seasation
extend their vbifyi.ng lnhenee te die reao-
vated Feelings of the Mind, 296
XXIII. Cau~e~ actiDg BClltely upen Organs ef &!n-
aatioo, when unremitl!iftgly prolooged, occa.
tionaDy change the Quality of lihei.r Action,
as from Pleasure to Pain, or ftoom. Pain' to
PleasMe, 306
XXIV. When nmovated Peelblga of the Mind are
exdaai'ftly excited, 314
XXV. Phantasms may arise from Ideas of which the
Mind would odMrwile ban ~ coucioaa,
or unconscious, 329
XXVI. The Co-operation of Morbific and Meral
ea- of Mental IJJ[citemeBt, 344
XXVII. CllftDry Rematb en such e:ther Laws of
the Mind aa are a.leulated tD explain tae eub-
ordlnate Incidents COilJl4ICted with 8pecen.llm.
p!'ellions, ~
APP.&NDIX.
Sblcbes of the Opinions, .ueient 111111 modem, which have
been eaiCl'taiDell on the Subjeet ol A~ S89
Notes w the Appendix, «3
General AcllltDIIa, 466
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
......-
.,--·
PHYSICAL CAUSES
OF THE
'PO'PULAR BELIEF IN APPARITIONS.
INTRODUCTION.
THE general object of thi& Dissertation may re-
quire some little explanatieu. An essay seriously
written, with the view of confuting all the super-
stitious ab$urdities collQeeted with the popular be-
lief in apParitions, would, Iio doubt, in this philo-
rophic age, be considered of the same importance
as the publication of arguments, how weighty 8().
ever they may be, intended to weaken the confi.
de&ce, which SQtne very well-disposed persons still
chooee to entertain on the subject of dreams, or
upon the relation which is S\lpposeQ to subeiat be.
tween them and future events. At the same time,
the utility of an inquiry into the rationale of our
dreams has never been doubted, as every proper
theory connected with a speculation of this kind
must necessarily involve the successful investiga..
A
.,,, -r:,Google
..
INTRODUCTION.
tion of certain primary laws of th~ human mind,
by which our various states of mental feelings are
governed. A similar argument applies. to those
embodied phantasies, which, under the general
name of Apparitions, are the sportive images of
what may, with the greatest propriety, be styled
our waking dreMM. · To explain, therefore, the
physical causes of such mental illusions, and, in
connexion with this elucidation, to point out the
origin of the popular belief in apparitions, is an
attempt which precludes any notions that may be
urged against it on the score of insignificance.
The inquiry necessarily involves an aecur.Me and
e'lttensive knowledge of the laws ·of thought, and
a capability of applying them to cases, where, from
the co-operating influence of.certain constitutional
and morbid causes incidental to the human frame,
the quality and intensity of our mental states un-
dergo very remarkable modifications. In this Point
of view, a theory of apparitions is insepara~ly con-
nected with the pathology of the human D)ind.
- _... ~ ·
- - - - - ~
-- --:: -~ -:::-:---=--
CHAP. I. .
REMARKABLE CASE OF SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS.
" 'Tbia ia one of the extreme - of mental de1uaion which a
111a11 olstroog judgment bas ventured to report of himself."
Ferrier'• Theory ofAmritiOIII.
On of the most authentic instances that has ever
been recorded of spectral illusions, is contained· in
the ·curious narrative written many years ago by
·Nicolai, the famous bookseller and author of Ber-
lin. ·•It is, indeed, a case which affords correct
data· for investigations relative to the belief in
apparitions ; on which account, I shall take the
liberty of transcribing the narrative in this essay,
however frequently it may have appeared before
the public.
" Those who pretend to have seen and heard
ghosts," says this writer, " obstinately maintain,
that they perceived these ~pparitions by means of
their senses. In order to defeat· that ·belief, we
generally desire them to consider how many people
have been imposed upon by artful novices, and
how liable we are to deceive ourselves; we advise
them to lay hold of the suppos~ spectres, assuring
4 CASE OF SP~TRAL ILLUSIONS.
them, that they are generally fowtd to be of a very
corporeal nature. But those who have a predilec-
tion for the miraculous pay -DO.regard to these ob..
jections; insisting, that the productions of their
disordered imagioations are real beinfp. We <:an-
not, therefore, collect too many, of such well-sub-
stantiated facts, as show ·how euily our imagina-
tion impoees on us erroneous notions, and deludes
not only delirious persons, but even thole who are
in the full po~~&ession of their f~ulties, by causing
them to see phantOms which scarcely can be dis-
tinguished from :real appearance~.
." I have my~.experieneed a cue of.this nature,
which to me appeaz:s:highly remarkable, :both psy~
chologi.cally and medicinally; I saw, in a ,state of'
mind completely sound, and after the ,first.teuw
was over, with perfect ca.lmneaa, for nearly twe
months,.almost eonstantly.and imroluntarily, a va.t
number of human and other farms, and.even head
their voices, though all thls was merely the cooee-
quence of a diseased state of the nerves, and ~de­
regular circplation of the blood."
The narrator now explains the state ef bis ay•
tem at the time; but this important pn-t of tire
account not being at present connected with oul'
;subject, it will be·noticed in its proper place.
".I had, in January and Febmary of the year
1791," continues this author, "the additional mis..
fortune to experience several extremely unpleasant
.,..
CASE 0P SPBCTllAL ILLUSIONS. 5
t.
, circumtftance8, which·were followed 011 the !Nth of
• February by a most violent· altercatiOn:. My wife
and another penon came into my apartment in the
morning, in order to eooaole me, but I was too
much ·agitated by a· series of incidents, which bad
IIIOit powerfally alected my·moral fee:&.ng, to be
capable of attending ·to them. On a sudden, I
perceived, at about the distance of ten steps, a form
liR tbat of a deceaaed. pers6n. I pointed ·at it,
aking my wiR! if she did not see it? It waa but
lllltUra1 that siteshould not see any thing ; my ques- '
tm,.therefore, alimned' her very much, and she
. sent iinmediately tbr a physician. The phantasm
allltiJNed·about eight minutes. l grew at length
lll<ft calm, aruf being extremely exhausted, fell
into a refltless sleep, which lasted· about half an
laour. The physician Ucribed the apparition to a
Yiolent mental emotion, and hoped then! would be no
l't!tUrD; but the vioJent agitation of my miDd had in
80Dle way diSordered my nerves, and produced far-:-
ther. cotasequencea, which deaenre a more minute
deacription.
" Attour in the afternOon, the form which I had
*!ell in the morni:Bg re-appeared. I waa by my~~elf
when this happen~ and being rather uneasy at
the inciden~ went to my wife~s apartment, but
diere like-triM I was prevented by the apparition,
which, however; at intenals disappeared, and &1-
._y•presented'itself in a standing posture. About
6 CASE OF SPECTRAl, ILLUSIONS.
six o'clock there appeo.red a1ao aeveml . walking
figures, whieh had no connexion with the fiat."
Nicolai now makes some very-i~ rmnarka
on·the subject of these waking dreamt, and on theil-
incongruous·character. Of these observatione, I
shall not fiill to avail myself on another·oceaaion.
The narrative then proceeds after ·the following
manner:
" Mter ·the first ·day the form ·of-the deceaaed
person no·:·more appeared, but its place waa sup.
plied with many other phantasms,.80Dletimes repre-
senting acquain~ces; but mostly stranger&·; those
whom I ~new were compOsed of living' and deceas-
ed persons, butthe number of the latter was com.
paratively small. I observed the penons with
whom I daily converSed did not appear as pUn•
tasms, these representing chieflyperso88 who lived
at some distance from ine.
" These phantasms 8eemed equaHy clear and
distinct at all times, and under all circum~
both when I was by myself, and when, I was in
company; and as well in the day as at~ and
in my oWn house as well as abMad; -· ~ were,
however, less frequent when I was in the house of
a friend,· and rarely appeared to me in the street.
When I shut my eyes, these ·phanta8in8 ·would
!!Ornetimes vanish entirely, though there were in.
stances when I beheld them' with my eyes elosed,
yet, when they disap~ed b'Q such oceasions, they
CASE OF SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS. 7
perally returned when I opened my ey~ I
convemed IIOIDetUnes with my physician and D;ly
:wife of the. paaMaBtn& wJaieh at the moment aur-
l'Oimded me ; they appeared more frequently walk-
iDg than at rest, nor were they constantly p.rese11t.
They frequentlly did not come for IIODle time, but
always re-appe81'ed for a longer er shorter period,
either singly or in company, the latter, however,
being most freqaently the case. I generally saw
1lumm forms of both sexes, but they uaually seem-
-~. not to take the smallest notice of each other,
movi~J&.as in a macket-place, where all &~e eager to
f*8$ ~the crowd; at times, however, they
aeemed to be ~ting business with each other.
1 a\sq.saw several t.ime& people on horseback, dogs,
&H ~ All these pha.ntaams. appeared to me in
their natural size, and as distinct as if alive, eihi- ·
biting di1Ferent shades of caroation in the uncover-
ed parts, as well as in dift'erent colours and fasQioM
ill thew.dresses, though the colours seemed some-
. - paler than in real nature ; none of the figures
~ panieularly terrible, comical, or disgust-
mg.,-~ of them being of an indifferent shape,
aad some presenting a pleasing aspect. The longer
these; pbenf!oms continued to visit me,. the more
freq~tly did they return, while, at the same time,
~y -~ in number about four weeks a(ter
they b4¥l first appeared. I also began to hear them
talk ; the phautoms so~etimes conversed among
o;9;_;,edb,Google
8 CASE 0}' SPECTRAL ILW810NS.
them~elveg, but more frequently addreued their
diacotltile to me ; their speeches were commonly
short; and tle\'er of an unpleasant tum. At di£,
fer4!1lt times there appeared to me both dear and
sen8ible friends of both aexes, whose addreS~Jt~S
tended to appease my grief, which had not yet
wholly subeided : their consolatory speeches were
in general addrel!8ed to me when I wa. alone.
Sometintes, however, I~ accosted bt these OOJ1.o
soling friends while I was engaged iJl compmy,
and not unfrequently while real persona.wete~
ing to me. These eonsolatoty ad~~
sometimes of-abrupt phraaes, and--at other times
they were regularly exeeuted.
" Though my mind and body were in a tolerable
state of SIUlity all this time,. and these pbantastWI
-became so familiar tO. me that they did not cause
me the slightest uneasiness, and tb«Sugh. I e-ten
sometimes amused myself with· stll'Veying them,
and spoke jocularly of them to my physician and
my wife, l yet did not neglect to U8e pl'()per Jbedi-
cinee, espeeially when they begab to haunt me the
whole day, and even at night, as soon as I awaked.~
CHAP. II.
TltB PATHOLoGY OP SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS.
"llelt all CCIIUieDon with extemal thinp; traina of vivid
Yilibll i1J111e1 apidly puaed thtoagh my mind."-Sir H ""'pltry
Dt1r1J•1M ~ct• ofNitrotu Ooritle.
b the curious case of Nicolai, which fonns the
subject of the foregOing ~hapter, it would not oc-
.easionally be very difficult to explain why certain
mental images, to the exclusion of other objects of
bia waking visions, should have acquired an undue
degree ofvividness. Frequently, however, it would
be impossible to trace any correspondence which
the particular complexion or disposition of his
mind might have with the quality of the phantasms
that were the offspring of his wild imagination.
The uninteresting recollections incidental to each
train of thought, as well as the lively obj~s of
his grief, appear to have alternately assumed an
embodied form. From thi& circum8tance, then,
arises the suspicion, that there were aot onlycautes
of a moral description, but alao soJlle morbid con-
dition of tbe body, which might haW contributed
.to reader the ideaa of hit· mind of such a high state
A2
10 PATHOLOGY OF SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS.
of intensity, that they became no less vivid than
actual impressions. But before considering the
case of Nicolai in a mediCal point of view, it will
be necessary to lay down a few general principles
connected with this subject, which have hitherto
met with little or no attention from physiologistS.
These.arise from the explanation of certain states
of the sanguineous system, in which a remarkable
connexion between such states and an undue vi-
vidness of mental feelings appears to be established.
It must be admitted, however, that such an in-·
quiry is of extreme difficulty, and liable to innu-
merable sources of error, on which account a more
than ordinary indulgencemay be due to the attempt.
The essential view of the mind which I ·have
adopted in preference to every other is that of the
late much-lamented Professor of Moral Philo!!Ophy
in the University of Edinburgh. Dr Brown, in
considering the mind as simple and indivisible,
conceives that every mental feeling is only the
mind itself, existing in a certain state.
In endeavouring then to obtain a correct notion
of certain vital properties ofthe human frame, and
the relation which the immaterial principle of the
mind may bear to them, I shall comtnence with
that important fluid, the blood, which, from the
peculiarity of its properties, has iriduced'plrysiolo-
gists to maintain its. vitality. · This inquiry, at the
same time, may·meet with some a88istance from ob-
,,,. e' ,,Google
PATHOLOGY OF SPECTJlA.L ILLUSIONS. 11
servatioos upon the effect of certain gases, which,
when introduced into the lungs, exert an influence
over the blood. The pulse, tor instance, of per-
SODS inba1iug the nitrous oxide, thori.gh it may vary
in .d.Urer.ent :indiViduals, with regard. to strength
or.VeJocity; never fails: to be increased in fulnesa ;
which: resUlt would intimate, that the general
~olume of the circulating .mass is, upon the appli-
cation of a proper agent, susceptible of an increu-
ing degree of apaosioo. On the other hlmd; in
the earliest stage of the noxious influence of the
febrile miasoia, there is an evident diminution in
tbe volume of the blood, as is indicated by a small
amtracted pulse, ·and an increasing constriction
of the capillaries. Hence may be drawn the
general eonclusion, that the oorpusculea of the
lital fluid poseess within themselves ~ inherent
dilatibility aad contractility, by the alternate force
of which they are enabled to act upon the eJaatic
coats of the vessels of the human body.
A more important observation, however, with
regard to the very .oppoeite eft'ects of the gases
alluded to yet remaios to be eta~. It would~
pear, that, :with :&ll increase of the volUJDe of. the
~· fluid, a general sense of pleasure ia
~ .This fact is well. illustrated in the
detigbt.eq»reued by the.individuals, who,' nUJJa-
bet, of yean ,ago, submitted themselves to t}le
experiments ~qted with the view of aecert..in-
ingthe efHet ei·tJ.e,Ditmua oJiide,,. The ~
which they expaieaeeci aft· . .ribed ODder. ...
tenli · u " ple&stmible thriDiDgs eirt.erldiDg &.lm
the ·ci;Jelt to the ~tnmiUee," or '' sUlialer e--.
tibua." On the contl!&l'y, wohm there is· &1li iuctea•
iag. contraction in the volume ·of the· blood. m.
ditlated by a spastic dispositicm of Ute veauh;
wfticient w imptde the geoeral. cuftlent ·of; the
eiftulating iuid, an opposite state of pain &ppea'B
to be an invariable result. This fact is p.vved. m
tlie distretiSing feeling~ experienced duriDg the eM\-
~- symptotn8 arising from the epidemic eoota-
siOO'df the febrile miasma.
It is on these principle&; then, that I Wbt!W
attempt to explain the nature of the ~
influence or energy, as·it is exerciled duri~iff the
ooutiie of circulation. In COllsidering also the ad
a&· simple and indivisible, as well as existing in
c:iettain states, itfJ-1 relation to the huinan· fn.tlle
appears to ·be singularly manifested by some ge.
neral correspondence with the quality and degrees
of .these acitioas of the blood. We have-seen, for
imtilltttle, that with the peculiar Udlueneing CORdi-
tion-of the oircttlat.ing fl1lid~ a teMenat either to
pleutirable or painfttl feelings is in a remarkable
degtoee connected. ProC;fs, therefore, may now be
·ildvanced, that with the varyingforce of'thit,indu..
·en~, the degree of intensity which tu. p1act in
the q~ties ~f bur' 1b.elltal st&tee k~ps a ~-
I
PA."TIIOLOOY 0 .. SPIIC'l'IIAL lt.'LVSIORI. 18
aWe J*e· Sudl.~ ill ailbrtlGd by a fal1:beto
Jdeleaoe to that aialgu* campo~; the DitltJua
oxide. Whela the efFecbt of. thie gaaeout·illbala-
tion were &.t ~ the. general·n!Rdt wu, that,
in proportion u ~ Udluenoed the cireWation, -.
aati0118 becaJne more abd.more .ft'rid. Thete were
deecribed under 8Uilh terms u " An incnaled
IIIIM'ibility to touch,"-" A senee of tangible a-
tensioa,"-" Villible ilbpreuions becoming· JDCft
·iJluminat.ed,"-" Luminous points arieing to ct..
tie the visioa,"-" Helling IDI:ft acute, eo that
tbe unalleat sound in the room •as keard dilltinn.
ly,"-" Feelings of. such delight_aa a1tno1t to de.
stroy CODsciomlnesa." At the IllUDe time; gt'&t8tW
recoBectioos ot aa UllOODli1oD intensity peaed
rapidly through the mind. One ·individual, in
*ltempting to describe his feelinga, could only
compare them to thole which he bad experienced
when witnessing an hertJic 8CIIle up:m dte ~·
Another peNOD'ooald only~ for a: deScription
of the state of his tnind to the emotions railed
within his breast, when, upon the occasion of the
fiDloQs commemoratiOn held at Westminster Ab-
bey iJl honout of Handel, he heard le'fen hundred
-~ts playing at oae time. As a further
eoD~equeaee, alia, of this increued degree of
pl~, time never failed to appear longer than
as m~ by a wateh.
The!!e observations on tile mental et'ects, aris-
- 14 PATHOLO~Y OF SPECTB.AL ·ILLUSIONS.
i..,-£rom a .str,oqg. ~us influence. ~y be
exteQd.ed .by ~g. ow: ~tention. in theenext
~"' tQ the f~brile miasma, the primary.action.of
wbicl,l fonns a .~t •CQUDterpart. .tQ the salubrious
age~y of ·the nltrQUs oxide. ·At Cadiz ~ 1\(a-
laga, this pernicious gas has been f~ posaessing
its. gft!&test ~ of vir:ulence ; having: been
lleghrened in its eft'e.cts by · extraoldina.ry heat
·and. ~isture, a s~t ·atmosphete, . crowded
multitudes, and the d~mposition of human eftlu-
via. . In .this state it has been r~ved into the
circulation, when the effect of the blood, thus
chemically altered, was to vivify mental impres-
sions to no less a degree than if the nitrous ol.ide
had been inhaled; at the same .time, the quality
of the feelings, ·thus rendered more intense, was of
an opposite and painful kind. There was a gen-
eral soreness which pervaded the whole system,
of such an acuteness, that the contact of the inter-
nal air, or a new .change ·of temperature, became
insupportable. There was a distressing leipgria
or coldness of the surface of·the bedy and of the
extremities, while the interior parts .felt as they ·
were scorched with a fire. A great auxiety pre-
vailed about the pra!COI'dia, while ~ ·~ of
the mind were rendered.no lesJ intense, beiJta ol
such · a ·painful description, and so ~ .in
their gloomy character, that they pr<M;lu,ced, as it
'was declared,.u overwhelming dejection.
PATHOLOGY O'P SPBCTRAL ILLUSIONS. 15
Having thus· discovered in the nitrous ·oxide,
and the febrile miasma, two most importarrt agents,
capable of aft'ecting the quality of our mental feel-
ings, we may lastly ·inquire into the effect whieh
they can produce when ·their excitation is carried
to an eitreme height.
There are few of my readers, probably, who are
not aware of the distinction which is always made
between those states of the mmd which are induced
when causes impressing our organs of 8eJl8e are
present; and those which occur as revivals of prior
mental states; the·former being termed·aenaMiotll,
the latter idea8, or, more correctly, rlno'Oated feel-
ifl{fl. Sensations and renovated feelings differ
es..crentially in nothing but degree. · Thus, the lat-
ter are leas intense, leas vivid, or fainter, than the
former.- This distinction is acknowledged by aU
metaphysicians. Dr Brown, for instance, remarks.,
that " there is a tendency in the mind to renova-
tions Of feeling leM vivid, indeed, than the original
afFections of sense when external objects were pre-
sent, but still so very similar to those primary
states of the mind, as to seem almost copies of
them in v&rious degrees of vividness or faintness."
. This metaphysical vie"' being stated, I shall
now Once more advert to the action of the nitrous
oxide on our mental feelings, from which we learn,
thaiwhenever sensations and ideasare siriudtaneous-
ly increased· to a· very great degree of· vividness,
6
16 PATHOLOGY OP SPBCTL\J, ILLUSIONS.
tJae mind gradually beoomes utiooDSCious of actual
illlpressiaal, and the reeollected images of our
.thOught, vivified to ·the height .of sensatioba, ap-
pear; d8 it were, to take their place. " Whenever
the open.tion of this gas," remarks Sir Humphry
Davy, " was carried to its greatest height, the
pleasurable thrilling gradually dllitinished, ·the
MUe of pressure was lost, impre8sions eeued to
be perceived, ·'rivid idea8 passed rapidly through
the mind." On another ocCasion, this great che-
miBt describes his·feelings•alter the rollowiDg man-
ner :-" Immediately after my return from a long
·journey, being fatigued, I respired nine quarts of
nitrous oxide, ha'Ving been precisely thirty-three
days without breathing any. The feelings were
difFerent from those I liad experienced on former
experiments. After the·first six or seven re&pira-
tiona, I gradually began to lose the perception of
external things, and a vivid and intense recollec-
tion of eome former experiments passed through
·my mind, so that I called out, what an amazing
concatenation of ideas !" A third experiment by
the IJI$le.philosopher was perhapsattended with the
most remarkable results. He was enclOsed in an
air-tight breathing box Of the capacity of about
nine cubic feet and a half, in· which he allowed
himself to be habituated to the excitement of the
·gas, which was then carried on gradually. After
having, therefore, beeRin this place of con6nement
PATHOLOGY OP SPECTRAL ILLUSION& 1':'
aa hour and a quarter, durlng whieh time no Je~~
aquantity thaD 80 quarts were thrown in, he addl,
" The momeat after l ciune otit of the box, I be.
· fill to respire- 10 quarts of ullJilingal nitrous
oxide. A thrilling, extending from ~he chest to
the extremitiee,.-ltas abnoet jinmecJ,iately prochaeed.
1 felt a senseof tangiblemcteDSidn, highly~
ab1e in fm!rY limb, my _
visible impre&licm were
dazzling and appanmdy JOaglli6ed. I heard dis.
tioedy f!Very sound in the room, and waa·perlectly
aware of my situation. By degrees, as the pJea.
llll'able sensation increased, I lost all corillexicm
with external things; trainsof vivid visible image.
rapidly p888ec:fthrough my mind, and were' ~
nected with words in such a·manner, M to p:rocluae
perceptions perfectly JlOVeL l mated in a wbr}d
at DeWiy CODDected and ne1tly modified ia...
When I wu -awakened trotn this iremi-delirioaa
·tlance by Di" Iinglake, who took the-\Jag &oia
my mouth, iitdignation and pride· were the ftnt
feelings produced by the sight ·of the pe111111B
-about me. My emotions wete enthuliutic and
sublime ; and tar a moment I walked ro1md tht
room, perfectly regardless of what wa8 said to Jile.
As I recovered my·former state of mind, I felt ill
inclination to communicate the discoveries .1 ·had
made during the experiment. I endeQ!Itoural to
recall the ideas,-....they · were feeble and· indW-
tinct. One l"eCC)llection ot unns, ·
·bo'\fewr., ·pre-
18 PATHOLOGY OF SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS.
sen~ -itaelf, ·aDd with ·the m<l8t intense belief
and J)l'opbetic manner I exclaimed to Dr King-
lake; ' Nothing exists but thoughts, the univer.se
is eompoetd of impressions, ideas, pl~ee, aDd
paiDs.'" . .
Sueh is the ~eresting detail of a very important
physiological experpnent made by Ol1e of the tnost
adventurous as well as profound ·philosophers of
the present age. The mionary world .to which
be was introduced, consisting of nothing more
than the .highly vivid .and embodied images .m
the mind, together with the laws by whioh such
phantasms (Jf they may be so called) were go-
-nmed, form, iri fact, the real object of the pre-
sent diuertation.
A singular result, but varied by ·the oppoaite
quality of pain, attends the incipient inBuenc:e of
dae febrile miasma of Cadiz and Mllaga. . Seasa-
tion and ideas are, as under the action of the ~
trous oxide, simUltaneously ·vivified. . The ·mind
aeon becomes insensible ·tO actual impreesions,
and ·a new world of ideas, of the most ~
lul kmd,·take their place. Horrid spectral images
.we,·the fore-runner .of a suddenly dimioiahed
degree :of excitement, of total iritlell8i1Biitly.; »r Df
M&tb•
." Oar·.mquiry will DOlV perhaps be found:::not
.wbolly devoiil·of interest. A pathologiad prinoi~
pie in4bia~~ has been established, that
PATHOLOGY OP SPECT.aAL ILLUSIONS. 19
when semations aad ideas are, fran some peculiar
state of the sanguineous iuid, .U.ultaneoualy :rea..
dered highly intense, the former a.r!'Ne at a ·certain
height of vividness, and gradually beoome t.inter,
while the latter, in an inverse ratio, increue in
'fividness ; the result being, that recollected images
of thoUght, vmned to the.height of actual impres-
l!iiou, excluSively; or nearly BO, constitute the staes
ofthemind. ·
As it has.now, I trust, been mflicieutly shOwn;
that an adequate eause of spectral illusions may
ariae from an undue degree of vividness in the re-
eollected images of the mind, I shall, in the next
place, investigate those JDorbid states of the body.
by. which such an effect may be induced. That
ideu are not unfrequently liable to be so excited
• to equal in their intensity actual .impreeaions,
IDd thus to be mistaken for them, ia a fact with
which those who are in the habit of visiting the
-apartments of the sick cannot but be familiar.
'~. P.tmt recaDiog images by an act .of me~,"
NDIIi-ks Dr Ferriar, " the tr&lisition ia direct t.o
hdlefdiag spectral objects which have been floating
.in.the imaginaion; and," adds this phy~, oo
IDOtber CJeC8Iieo; " 1 have frequ.ently, in the coune
of my professional practice, conversed with per-
IODS 'who i~ed that they saw deBIIO!llt .and
heard them -speak ; which specie~· ef, del.Qon aa-
mits of many.gradations and diJtinctioJ-,.p,clusiTe
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
iO PATHOLOGY op·SPECTRAL ILWBIOM&
ofactual insanity.., This observation every medi.
41 practitioner will ooidirm.
I may also remark, that ·mpm'tuing the patho.
Josiea1 inquiry in which we are eugaged, our true
coune is ait ledgth rendered plaiD and direct. Ia
judging ftom the·aperation of tboee peculiargases,
the- Diitw8 oxide'and lebrile miasm&; which, wheo
iDbaled;.aft'ect.the CODlp9Sition.oftheblood; and, at
the same time, exert a vivifying inftueilcemer the
leeliDgsofthe mind, it~ ~tour first proper
ebject is to inquire, if there ere DOt certain morbid
.xmcti6ous of the body in which the blood, from ita
~tered· qWllity, may not produce the 18Dle COJll&.
quences. The causes al~ thu:s affecting the .:a.
guiaeou& syatem,.may be considered • arising,.ia
.the Brat place, from hereditary (II' coaatitu~
.taints of the blood; fdly, BI'ODitheauppreuim«
belltliy or aecuatomed eTacuatiou;· Sclly, From
. adveatitioua matten cfuoectly admitted iAto the
cemposition r4 thw auicl ; aDd, ~Y, From cir-
.OWbltanoes aft"eeting the state of the cimllating
system through the medium ofthe nerves or brain.
IMtly) I may·be allowed to observe, that· wben-
f!fet st~eh· a •iVitying in11uence can be pnmd to
tiJdet;. no furare cti81culty will IUlely remain in
80el0untmg for the specti'al illUsions which mOlt
~ JWtdt from its·high degree of.eseite-
ment, or when· ideas are·rendered as vivid·as actu-
al impfeseioos.
Jl
CHAP. III.
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS R.ESUL'l'ING FBOJI TH.f;
RlGHLY EXCITED STATES OF PARTICULAR
TEMPERAMENTS.
" But that I would not
Meet you' 1ritb more lllldnae, I c:oalc1 ahew ye
A ~ wortla new,-
\Vheftpeople ~ all 10tt8,-that baft been .UIMII
Willi lunacies and f'o~ wait their cures.
Here'a fancies of a thouiiM!d atampa and faahiont,
Like ftiea in eeveral ahapea buz round about ye,
And twice as many gestures ; some of pity,
Tbat it would make you melt to tee their paaalons :
ADd 110111e as Jipt ~!pin. that woald content ye."
Bea-t Gfld Fkttite,..
Faox the different mental dispositions obeervable
in mankind, we are entitled to expect that in each
individual of the human race there may be a con&ti-
tut~t~nde~yto som~ one prevailingstateoffeel-
ings, ei!Jl~ distinctly pleaaurable or distinctly pain-
ful.. Ia the tempenunentt for mst.ance• 'Qimed~
guine, the iniluence of the blood is inda:ate4byan
increaaing dilatation of the sanguineous vessels, or
,,,, e' ,,Google
~! SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS.OF M:ANIA.
by the greater tendency of the pulse to strength and
fulness, while the general mental disposition is of
a lively kind.• In the melancholic temperament,
on the contrary, there appears 'to be ·an opposite
quality of the circulating fluid,..which, by its influ-
ence, induces a constricting dispOsition of the
vessels, and a corresponding proneness to gloomy
thoughts. t Pinel has referred the symptoms,
named maniacal, to a very highly-excited state
of these two temperaments ; and this view leads
to the rational doubt which may be entertained,
that the cause of mania is less dependent upon the
condition of the nervous system, than upon some
particular or morbid quality of the circulating
fluid.t " IC the blood be imperfectly elaborated,"'
• " Homines tali constitutione prediti," remarks Dr Gregory,
" prreter aolitum sentientes et irritabiles obaervantur, et pulaua
habent aolito _
lrequentiores, et stanguinis motum liberrimum, et
eecretiones et excretiones Cere copiosas, raro obAtructaa, et animum
plerumque letum et hilarem, aliquaodo Jevem ; nun aoimi DOD
1ee111 ac corporia varietates a temperanto &a!pe pendent."
t " Hoc temperamento prediti, animum habent gravem, SS!pe
tristem, meditabundum, baud facile commovendum, quo semel
commotus est afFectua teoacissimum, in negotiis indetessum in
studiis acutissimum, in unore terventissimum, fidelissimum, ad
poesin Rpe aptum, in melaocholiam et insaniam aliquando pro-
clivem."....areP71'' C0111pectu1 .lJiedicinre Theor. p. 299.
; " The fOl!D ot the cranium," observes Dr Good, " ita thick-
ness and other qualities; the meninges, the substance otthe brain, ·
the ventricles, the pineal gland, the commissures, the cerebellum,
remarks a modetu writer, "or with a dispro-
portion of some of its constituent principles to
the rest, the w:hole system partakes of the evil, and
a diathesis or morbid habit is the certain conse-
qaenee. And if it become once impregnated .with
a .peculia~- taitai, it is wonderful to remark the te-
nacity with wllch it retains it, though .often in a
state of doi'IWtlcy, or inactivity, for years, or
even generations:"• From this view, therefore,
which the writer b.kes of the inlluence of the san-
.guineous fluid, he isled to entertain the opinion, that
there is no other partof the system which we ought
to regard as the pr~posing cause of such corpo-
real disorders as gout, struma, or phthisis, and
even of mental affections, as of madness. On this
subject also I shall beg leave to add, that, as the
causeof the sanguine and melancholy temperaments
in their·highly-excited states, can only be referable
to some peculiar state of the blood, I must regard
the symptoms of such states to be those which are
described under the general name of mmaia. " The
violence of maniacal paroxysms,".says Pinel, " ap-
pears to be independent of the nature of the exci-
have all been analyzed in tum by the most dexterous and prying
anatomists of England, France, Gennany, and Italy, but with no
aatisfactory result."-Good'' Study ofMedicine, v. 3, p. 67.
• Ibid, v. 2, p. 34.
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
1M .IPICTJL\L ILLUSlOrf. !>,)f4l"fU.
ting QUte, or to d,epend, ~ le~ mueh·PlQI'ie upep
the constitution of the individual~ or upon the.dif..
ferent d~ of his physical aDd moral BePai-
bility. ·Mt:n of robust constitutions, of matUl'e
yean~ .with black hair, and a~tible ofstrong aud
:violent pa.iona, appear to retain the same ~
ter when vilited by this most distressing of human
misrortunes. Their or,dinary eneqJy is augmeuted
to outrageous fury. Violence, e~n the other band,
is seldom c:haracteristic of the paroxysms of indivi-
duals of more moderate pwons, with brown or
aUburn .hair. Nothing is more common than to
see men with light..coloured. hair sink into sooth-
ing and pleasureable .reverits; whereas it seldom
.·er nenr happens that they become furious or un-
manageable. Their pleasipg dreams are, however,
at leRgtb overtaken by, and lost amidst the gloom
of an incurable fatuity." .
From these remarks, we shall be led to expeet,
that strollger vivid feelings are oot to be found
than those whiCh charaet,erize the states of m&Dia.
~"en during intervals ofcomparative ealmnees and
l'e&SOD, Pinel has declared, that he has no where
inet, except in romances, with more fond husbands,
more affectionate parents, more impassioned Ioven,
more pure and exalted patriots, than in the Lunatic
Asylum. Hence he argues, that persons of the
greatestmental excitement, of the warmest passions,
..
-·· ;,.::,Coogle
(
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONB OY lllANIA. U
the lll08t active imagination, the most acute eemi:..
bility, are chiefly prone to iDsanity.• When sueb,
therefcft, is the general mental condition ·of the
lllllliacal patient, it will,·in a theoretical point of
liew, be instructive, to once more advert to the
powertA an agent which is calculated above every
other substance to illustrate the laws connected
with the mi.dness of wbieh our mental feel~ are
IU8Cqltibte; and in tracing its operation, when the
lell8ltions and ideas which it influences are excited
to an extreme degree of intenlity, we may.com-
pare such a result with the state of mind which
subsists during th~ aceestdon of the maniacal par-
oxysm. The institution of this eomparieon will, at
the same time, give strength to the opinion, that
there exists in mania a sanguineous and constitu..
tiona! influence, analogous in its consequences to
loch aa may be artificially produced by chemi-
eal ~ts, affecting the composition of the blood.
Thus I have before mentioned, that Sir Humphry
]My, in relating the particular feelings which he
sperienced during the excitement of the nitroua
oxide, first noticed the increased acuteness of his
&eDIBtions, which he described under such terms,
u " a 8ell8e of tangible extension, or of visible im-
pn!alions being rendered dazzling, and apparently ·
• " A melaucholy reSection," eaya Pinel, " but such aa ie eal-
a!Mea t10 caJl forth oar bat and t.enclerelt IJIDpa&hia..,
B
t.6 SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS OF MANIA.
magnified." In pointing out, also, the pamt'ul
effect of. the febrile .miasma of Cadiz, it was ob.;;
se~ed, that the incipient indications ofthis.in1luenoe
were a general soreness over the body, or a sense of
extreme cold or burning heat. It is curious then to
.remark, that by a similar increase of corporeal sen-
sibility, though frequently represented under dift'er-
ent forms, the earliest symptoms of an approaching
maniacal paroxysm are frequently characterized.
Pinel speaks of a patient whose vision was rendered
so acutely sensible, that, in forming his judgment
from the effects of the sun's light, he fancied that
' this luminary acted upon him at the distance of
only four paces; he also described a motion which
he experienced in his head as resembling that of
gurgling or boiling. I likewise find it recorded of
another lunatic, who, although he could. usually
take large quantities of snuff without sneezing, yet,
upon the approach of a paroxysm, had his sense of.
smell rendered so intense, that he became convulsed'
with the slightest aromatics. With respect to the
state of mental ideas, when they are by the &allle
cause and under similar circumstances affected, a.
proportionate degree ofvividness is no less observa-
ble. Thus Sir Humphry Davy has observed of.
the.commencing effect of the nitrous oxide, that vi-·
vid ideas of the most pleasing description rapidly
passed through his mind, and that an intense recol-
lection arose of some former experiments. Itis re- ,
SPBCTRAL ILLUSIONS OF KANIA. r1
marbble also, that a patient cured by Dr Willis
has;in the narrative of his own case, described a si-
~ stateofideas as existing in mania. "'I always,"
herelates, " expecte4 with impatience the accession
mthe paroxysms, since I enjoyed during their pre-
sence a high degree of pleasure. They lasted ten
or twelve hours. Every thing appeared easy to me.
No obstacles presented themselves either in theory
or practice. My memory acquired upon a sudden .
a singular degree of perfection. Long passages of
Latin authors recurred to my mind. In general,
I have great difficulty in finding rhythmical ter-
minations ; but then I could write in verse with as
much facility as in prose." Such is the state of
mind induced when the earlier stage of the inter-
val of mental alienation is of a pleasurable kind ;
and, on the other hand, when it is of a painful de-
scription, symptoms are ushered in more resem-
bling those which are induced by the febrile mias-
ma ; the mind being distracted with recollections
of tbe most gloomy character.
It may be farther remarked, that the same
analogy which I have traced continues to subsist
in other mental indications of mania. It has been
shewn, for instance, that after the long-eontinued
inhalation of the nitrous oxide, or in the more ad-
vanced state of the symptoms attending the bane-;.
ful infiuence of the miasma of Cadiz, the sensibi-
lity to actual impressions gradually diminiehes,
18 SPBCTBAL ILLUSIONS OF HANIA.
while ideas or the recolleeted images of the miad
acquire a degree of vividness equalling that oe--
sations. The~e ~ frequently no less the symp..
toma of maoia after a paroxysm baa ·attained ita
greatest height. I thall, therefore, consider such
symptmns in due order, first, as they relate to
sea.sations; and, eecondly, to ideas.
In thefir# place, then, the insensibility of the
·maniac, during the greatest height of a p.roxyam,
to actual impressions, has been long a 'subject of
remark. " The skin," says one writer, "is IIOIDe-
times as it were benumbed ; the patienta feel
f!flery thing like cotton ; they do not feel punc-
tures, blisters, or aetons." About three or four celh
turies ago, when lunatics were unprotected by
eharitable asylums, this diminished or ahnoe&
obliterated oonsciou81le88 of sensations, WIUl, unfQJ:~
tunately for these hapless b~ too frequen.tly
put to the test, and thus became a subject of pot
pu1ar observation and notoriety. The cruel.d0o
privation to which they became subject, resulted
from the diuolution of the religious houees, whicll
took place at the time of the Reformation. X...
niacs, or ..4braltam-mm, as they were then ~
hadno.longer the benefit ofthose hospitals whida,
during the papal establishment, were instituted
fc their relief; deserted also by their frienda
who wperstitiously attributed the cause ~ their
disorder to the poeeession of devils, .they were
SP.JiiCTB.AL ILLU810N8 <W JUNIA. •
allowed to J'IUDble about the country almoet ua.
ked, and exposed to eyery hardship which eoald
result from famine and the inclemencies of the
weather. Thus despised and shunned, they were
compelled, in order to procure the sustenance ne-
cessary to satisfy the cravings of their hunger, to
use not only prayen but force ; and this practice
at length su~ to idle aod dissolute beggars
the advantage to be derived from feigning madness,
as a cloak tor the compulsion which they might
find it equally requisite to use in the collection of
alm& But in order to give a proper colourillg to
such a counterfeit, it was round necessary that U.
insensibilityto su1f'ering which these poorAbraham.
men evin~ should be·also imitated.• Thua, ila
Decker's Bell-man of London, we have the follow..
iDg account ofone ofthese di~~~embling madmen :-
" He swears he bath been in bedlam, and will talk
frantickly of purpose: you see pins stuck in sundry
places of his naked flesh, especially in his anne,
which pain he gladly puts himselfto, (being indeed
oo torment at all, his skin is either so dead with
80IDe foul diteue, or so hardened with weather,)
onlyto make you belieTe be is out ofhis wits." The
disguise of one of these feigned bedlamites is as-
• Fllllll &hil baitUiA ariaea the eut tenn wkm ..firWI!t, ill
- am-c tile MiJen,
30 SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS OF MANIA.
awned by Edgar in King Lear, who finds it no
less neces8ary to imitate the maniac's corporeal in~
sensibility.
" The country gives me pfO!)f and precedent
Of bedlam-beggars, who, with roaring voices,
Stick in their n~mb'd and mortified bare arms,
Pins, wooden pricks, nails, sprigs of rosemary ;
And with this horrible object, homlow farms,
Poor pelting villages, aheep-cetee, and miUs,
Sometime with lunatic bana, sometime with prayera,
Inforce their charity." •
The second symptom indicating the height of
the maniacal paroxysm is, that in the place of sen-
sations, ideas are vivified to the intensity of actual
impressions. This indication is too well known to
require many remarks. " It would be endless,".
says Pinel, " to speak of the numerous errors of
the imagination, the fantastic visions, and ideal
• It is scarcely In connexion with this subject to remark, that
the horn which wandering madmen formerly carried about with
them, has excited much of the attention of antiquaries. · Mr
Douce, in bia Illustrations of Shakapeare, observes, that Edpr,
ia Older to be m-ed pruperly, should, in tile words of BaDdie
Holme, " have a long steWand a cow or ox-hom by his side, ancl
be madly decked and dreaeed all over with ribbonds, feathers, cut-
tinp of cloth, and what not." The same excellent antiquary allo
remarks, " That about the year 1760, a poor idiot called Cuddie
Eddie, habited much In the same manner, and rattling a cow's hom
aplnat hit·teeth, went about the streets of Hawick ia Scotlaud "
,,,, e' ,,Google
----
SP.BCTBAL ILLUSIONS OF MANIA. 31
transf'ormations, into generals, monarehs, and di-
vinities, and such other illusions that form· the
chamcters of hypochondriacal and maniacal afFec-
tions." Among the many instances of this kind
cited by the French writer, one may be men-
tioned, in which a person conceived at dift'erent
,.ones that he had imaginary conferences with
good and bad angels, and, according to the re-
spective inBuences of their delusions, was mild or
furious, inclined to acts of beneficence, or roused
to deeds of ferocity. In an early period qf his-
tory, when m.ne people, as a few centuries ago
in England, found no asylum, they were ever, in
their desultory rambles, pursued by a vivid ima-
gination with demons or furies. " We meet with
such maniacs," says a critical writer on the Jew-
ish customs, " in the synagogues, or places of re-
ligious worship-we meet with them in towns and
cities, where they were allowed to ramble uncon-
trolled. Being thought to be inhabited by demons,
they were esteemed sacred persons, and regarded
with religious awe and reverence." Shakspeare
has well shewn, in the character of Edgar, that
such was likewise the state of madmen in this
country. " Who.gives any thing to poor Tom?"
says.the pretended demoniac, " whom the foul fiend
hath led through fire and through flame, through
pond and whirlpool, over bog and quagmire; that
hath ~ knives under his pillow, and halters in hia
31 SP.BCT.aAL ILLUSIONS OF .ANIA.
pew: set ratsbane by his porridge; made him proud
of bean, to ride on a bay _
trotting hone over four-
mm'd bridges, to coune his own shadow lor a
traitor." This is no incorrect illustration of the
atate of a frenzied imagination.
There is no writer, howeTer, that has been more
auccesaful than Burton in elucidating from well.,
authenticated instances of spectral illusions, tboae
highly..exeit.ed states of the sanguine and melan-
cholic temperaments, which may be considered as
maniacal. " Such as are commonly of a ruddy
oomplexioa and high..coloored," says this author,
"are much inclined to laughter; witty and meny,
conceited in discourse, pleallallt, if they be not far
gone, much given to music, dancing, and to be in
women's company. They meditate wholly on
Ncb things, and think they see or hear plays,
dancing, and such like sports, free from all fear
md sorrow. Like him of Argus, that sat laugh-
ing all day long as if he had been at the theatre.
Such another is mentioned by Aristotle, living at
Abydos, a town of Asia Minor, that would sit,
after the same fashion, as if he had been upon a
stage, and sometimes act himself, sometimes clap
his hands, and laugh as if he had been well
pleased with the sight." The same writer re-
marks of another description of men, wh01e men.
tal feeliDgs have constitutionally a gloomy ten-
deocy,-" They are usually sad and solitary, and
"
-~ - -~
I
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS OF MANIA. 8S
that continually and in excess ; more than ordi-
nary suspicious, more fearful, and have long, sore,
and most corrupt imaginations; cold and black,
bashful, and so solitary,. that they will endure no
company. They dream of graves, still and dead
men, and think themael..-es bewitched or dead.
If the symptoms be extreme, they think they hear
hideous noises, see and talk with black men, and
converse familiarly with devils, and such strange
chimeras and visions, or that they are possessed
by them, and that somebody talks to them, or
within them." These illustrations of mania will be,
at present, sufficient for my purpose. It would
indeed fill a volume to treat of the various mental
illwions which may be referred-to the Qame eause:
" S. die m:uge workiDg ot c1uU aelaDdtoly I
W\oee drossy thoughee, tlryins the feeble brain,
CarruptJ the - , deludes the in~Uect,
ADd iD the eoul'e fai~ table falaely gravea
Whole sqaadrone of phantaatical chimeras,
And thouaand vain imagillationa ;
Hakinr eome think their heads u bi8 u Jwne.,-
Some that th' are dead,-eome that th' ue tum'd te 'II'OlYee.·•
BmHr'• LfJ16114o
B 2
CHAP. IV.
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS ARISING FROM THE
HYSTERIC TEMPERAMENT.
0, bow this mother swelle up toward my heart t
Hylkrica ptUrio! do'tfll, thou climbintJ IIOUOW,
Tby clement's below I
King Lear, Act 2, Scene-4.
WHEN the growth of the form is nearly com-
pleted, the circulating fluid necessary for the fu-
ture support of the body is in superabundance,
and unless corrected in the delicate system of the
female, must, agreeably to the principles laid
down, nec~sarily acquire a power of .rendering
unduly intense the feelings of the mind. Owing
to this cause, then, arises what is named the
hysteric temperament, which is so well descri-
bed by Burton. "From hence," he remarks, "pro-
ceed a brutish kind of dotage, troublesome sleep,
terrible dreams, a foolish kind of bashfulness in
some, perverse conceits and opinions, dejection or
mind, much discontent, and preposterous judg-
ment. They are apt to loathe, dislike, disdain, to
'"'
.... ··-
m ;,ed ,,Google
--··-~ ·~..a~~ II
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS OF HYSTEBI.A. 85
be weary of every object.. Each thing almost ia
tedious to them. They pine way, are void of
counsel, apt to weep, and tremble timorous, fearful,
sad, and out of all hopes of better fortunes. They
take. delight in doing nothing for the time, but
love to be alone and. solitary, though that does
them more harm. And thus they are affected so
long as this vapour lasteth ; but by and by they
are as pleasant and merry as ever they were in
their lives ; they sing, discourse, and laugh in any
good company, upon all occasions. And so by
fits it takes them now and then, except the malady
be inveterate, and then it is more frequent, vehe-
ment, and continuate. Many of them cannot tell
how to express themselves in words, how it holds
them, what ails them. You cannot understand
them, or well tell what to make of their sayings."
Such being the vivid mental feelings c~ter·
istic of the hysteric temperament, our present ob-
ject is to search for some case iu which they must
have met with still greater excitement ; we shall
then be entitled to expect that effects will be pro-
duced not unlike those of certain gases, which
exert an extraordinary influence on the blood. It
fortunately happens that a recent example> which
may suit.our purpose,. is very minutely detailed in
the last volume. of the Royal Society of Edin-
burgh, relative to a servant-girl, of the age of six-
teen, who shewed general symptoms of pletho~
S6 SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS OF HY8TEB.IA..
obTioualy arising from the cause to which I haw
alluded.• The 6rst symptom of her mental dis.
order was an unusualaomnoleocy. This was suc-
ceeded by diaturbed and talking dreamt, in whleb
abe uttered wild ineoherent expret~~~ioos, or saug
musical airs. Indications of aomliUilbulian foL
lowed. She would fall asleep, iJDaSine hene1f m
episcopal clergyman, go through the eerelllODy o6
baptizing the children, and give an appropriate
and e:rtempore prayer.-Or she would fancy her.
self living with her aunt, near London, and ~
ciog herself upon one of the kitehen-stools, ride
upon it with a clattering noise, and take an imagi-
nuy journey to Epsom races. Such vivid dreGra
were soon afterwards alternated with ~ .,._
.ttoM. These illusions, or 'llllJftd8rir¥f8, as the girl
hel'llelf named them, would suddenly come on while
she we walking with her mistress's children, or
was going to church,-while she was dreuing
berself,-while she was arranging the furniture of
the house,-or while she was busily engaged in
• Repon on a eouununication from Dr Dyce oC Aberdeen to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh, " On Uterine Irritation, and its Ef-
fects on the Female Constitution;" by H. Dewar, M. D. F.R.S.
Edinburgh. I un sorry to be under the neceaaity of dift'ering in
- te~pecta from Dr Dewar, in the riew wbleb be- baa si•en ot
thia cue, aa be baa appeared to ban refaned aU tbe IIJ1DptGma fill
it to~
.::'- -
;,.,,,Coogle
. .. _ .......-.-- ~ -- - ~-..:-la
SPBCTJLU. ILLUSIONS OP RYSTBJliA. I'J
tie duties of the pantry or of the dining-table. A
paxy1111 ofthis kind would 80Dletimes last for aft
lwr, and it dift"ered from a dream in being cba-
llderized by fewer inconsillteocies, by less glaring
miltakea as to timeaod place, by ita ~ frequeat
occwrenc:e,8Dd by occasionally giring way to a re-
Jioaf or reprimaud. "She answered," eaya the
tepotter of her cue, "many questions ditrtiuetly,
a8ewmg at times acareely any failure of ha- mental
JIOftfS.,
It may now be interesting to trace the progretB
cithe symptoms which attended the paroxysms to
which the girl became aubjecL About a quarter.
cian hour previous to each &tate of thia kind abe
felt IOIIlewhat drowsy ; a pain in the head, usually
~ but which, 011 one occasion, waa very io-
'-e, 8UCCeeded; aft:erwanla a doudineu or mist:i-
._came over her eyes;-a peculiar ringing noiae
atunned her ears, sometimes resembling the eound
ol carriage-wheels, and accompanied with a feeling
of motion, aa if she herself were seated in the
vehicle. The state of all these sensations bore, in
fact, some slight degree of resemblance to that
which results from an incipient effect on the eir-
culation after inhaling the nitrous oxide,-falee
yet vivid external impressions having been felt.
Occasionally, however, the sensations of the girl
were rendered still more highly acute ; the eye-
lids appeared shut, though not entirely closed ;
~8 SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS OF. HYSTERIA.
the pupils were much contracted, and there .was
a great intolerance of.light. She could net name
objects when the light of the candle or fire shone
fully upon them, but pointed them out correctly
in the shade, or when they were dimly illuminated.
She also recognised any of her acquaintance better
by. his shadow than by looking at his penon.
When the paroxysm fairly came on, which mig}lt
be in any part of the day, the girl still continued
to experience such mental feelings as are analogous
to those that we have found to arise from the
further increasing influence of certain well-known
agents, which readily affect the vividness of sensa-.
tions and ideas. There was a diminishing sensibility
to external impressions; the eyes were half closed;
the cornea was covered with a dimness or glaze, re-
sembling that of a person in syncope ; the .pupils
were dilated, and, although the iris was exposed
to the direct rays of the sun,.it shewed no per-
ceptible·contraction.* At the same tim~, in pro-
portion as sensations were either diminishing in
their degree of vividness, or were becoming, in a
manner, evanescent, ideas grew more intense. Thus,
in one fit, as it is stated, " she performed, in the
most correct manner, some of her accustomed duties
relating to the pantry and the dinner-table. Dr
• The pulle, eays Dr Dyce, wea 70, and the exl:nmitiea ftther
colci.
_ ';' ·-
;,.,,,Coogle
- ~~
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS 01' HYSTERIA. 89
Dycewent to see her ; she gave him a wrong name,
asformerly. Her mistreBS then desired her to stand
straight up, look around, and tell where she was.
She recovered instantly, but it was only for a
little;--she very soon relapsed. When requested to
read in an almanack held before her, she did not
!eeiD to see it, nor did she notice a stick which
was held out to her. Being asked a seeond time
to read, she repeated a portion of Scripture, and
did not give a correct answer when asked where
she was ? Being desired to state what she felt, she
put her hand to her forehead, and complained of
her head, saying, she saw the mice running through
the room. Mrs L - mentioned that she had
said the same thing on many former occasions, even
when her eyes were shut ; that she had also fre-
quently imagined she was accompanied by a little
black dog, which she could not get rid of. She did
not, in general, express any particular uneasiness
from such a cau!!C ; at times, however, she cried in
consequence of it, and at other times laughed im-
moderately." There are severai ·other particulars
detailed in this very curious case, to which I shall
hereafter allude.
CHAP. V.
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS OCCURRING FROM THE NB.
GLECT .OF ACCUSTOMED PERIODICAL BLOOD.
LETTING.
Phlebotomy, many timet neglected, may doe much barme to the
body, when there ia a manifest redundance otbad humoun and
melaac:holy w-1 ; and when theae humon bette and boyle, If
dUa he not 118111 in time, the partiel alllcted, 10 inflamed, ue
in gNat danpr to be mad; but it it be Ulllldmedly, unfortll·
nately immoderately uaed, it doth u muCh barme by Jefri&'er·
at.ing die &lody, dulling tlae spirit., and coniiUDling them.
BtrJLTOlf's ..4~ ofMeltmcAoly, )>llrl I. Sect. 2.
THE blood may from nothing more than the excess
in which it prevails throughout the system, prove
a stimulant capable of inducing an undue vividness
of thought. This curious fact appears to have
formerly met with many satisfactory illustrations,
when, in accordance with the humoral pathology
once taught, periodical blood-letting was universal-
ly practised; and the ratiunok of such an effect
must, from the principles laid down, be suffici~ntly
evident. The comparative degree of vividness
subsisting between sensations and ideas being re-
SPECTB.AL ILLUSIONS l'llOH PLBTBOU. 4tl
gulated. by the usual infiuencing conditioa of the
circulating system, we may readily conceive, that
whenever a wonted evacuation of the aanguineous
6uid was stopped, the recollected .images of the
mind would be rendered liable to an undue degree
oC excitation. This is evident, from a remark e»o
curring in Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy, where
the mental effect resulting from a neglect of accu&-
tomed phlebotomy is, in the language of the hu-
moral school of medicine, expressed under such
metaphorical terms, as " an in1lammation C&Uied
by hot and boiling humours."
That this view ia far from hypothetical, the caae
of N'JOOlai, the Prussian bookleller, to which I
have alluded in the first chapter, strikingly coa-
firms. This intelligent man had evidently certain
trains of thought rendered unduly vivid from monl
causes, the particular influence of which I shall
consider hereafter ; but a conspiring agent, much
more excitable, was strictly of a pathological de.
scription, and resulted from a casual neglect of
accustomed blood-letting. Thia very curioua fact
I shall give in another extract from Nicolai~s case.
"It being a matter of oonsiderable importaooe,'lt
he remarks, " that an incident of thia nature,'It
(namely, of seeing and hearing ghosta) "should
be observed with the strictest attention, and reJat,.
ed, together with all collateral circumstances, with
the most conscientious fidelity, I shall not omit
4lt SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS FROM PI,ETHORA.
any thing of which I retaiD a clear recollection.
The truth of what I am going to advance, will not
require a farther testimony, as Dr Selle, who was
my physician, and was daily informed by me of
every trifling occmTence a'nd change that happen•
ed, is still living, aod will, by all who know him,
be most readily admitted as an unobjectionable
witness. During the ten latter months of the year
1790, I had experienced several melancholy inci-
dents. which deeply ·affected me, particularly in
September, from which time I suffered an almost
uninterrupted series of misfortunes, that aftlicted
me with the most poignant grief. I was accustom-
ed to be bled twice a year, and this bad- been done
once on the 9th of July, but was ornitted to be~
peatedat the end of the year 1790. I had, in 178S,
been suddenly taken with a violent vertigo, which
my physicians imputed to obstructions in the fixed
vessels of the abdomen, brought on by a sedentary
life, and a continual exertion ofthe mind. This in-
disposition was successfully removed by means of
a more strict diet. In the beginning I had
found the use of leeches applied to the arms par-
ticularly efficacious, and they were afterwards re-
peated two or three times annually, when I felt
congestions in the head. The last leeches which had
been put on, previous to the appearance of the phan-
tasms of which I am about to speak, had been ap-
plied on the 1stof March 1790; less blood had, con·
.. ;,.,,,Coogle
--- - ·ere• , r==
SPBCT~ ILLUSIONS FROM PLBTHORA. 43
aequently, been evacuated in 1790 than was usual
with me, and from September, I was constantly oc-
cupied in business that required the ID06t uaremit-
ted exertions, and which was rendered Still more
perplexing by frequent interruptions."
Nicolai then proceeds to give an accO\lnt of the
appearance of the first phantasm that presented
"itself before him, which was like the form of a de-
ceased pel"8011 ; and he afterwards details the innu-
merable other spectral illusions with which he waa
haunted. 'rhis part of the narrative has been given
in the first chapter of this dissertation. 'rhe most
curious fact, however, still remains to be told; it ~
is.that interesting circumstance in the caee which
proves, that the detraction of blood in a system
where the habitual evacuation of this vital fluid
bad been casually neglected, was sufficient, by a
reduction of the sanguineous influence, to expel
all the phantasms which had resulted from an
undue vividness of ideaa. "At last," says Ni-
colai, '' it was agreed that leeches should be again
applied to me, as formerly ; which was actually
done, April !Oth, 1791, at eleven o'clock in the
morning. No person was with me besides the
surgeon ; but during the operation, my chamber
was crowded with human phantasms of all descrip-
tions. This continued uninterruptedly till about
half an hour after four o'clock, just when my di-
gestion commenced. I then perceived that they
t4f 8PBCTB.AL ILLUSIONS FROM PLETHORA.
began to move more slowly. Soon after, their
colour began to fade, and at seven o'clock they
were entirely white. But they moved very little,
though the forms were aa distinct aa before ; grow-
ing, however, by degrees mol-e obscure, yet not
fewer in number, as had generally been the case.
The phantoms did not withdraw, nor did they
vanish, a circumstance which, previous to that time,
bad frequently happened. They now aeemed to
dill80lve in the air, while fragments of110me of them
continued visible a considerable time. About eight
o'clock the room was entirely cleared of my fan-
tastic visitors. .
" Since this time I have felt, twice or three
times, a seosation, aa if these phantasms were goiDg
to reappear, without, however, actually eeeing any
thing. The II&IDe sensation surpriaed me, just
before I drew up this account, while I was eura.
iDing eome papers relative to theee apparitione
which I had drawn up in the year 1791."
;,.,,,Coogle
. ~...... 1 .-.-.~
CHAP. VI.
TD SPECTRAL ILUJBIONB WHICHOCCASIONALLY
OCCUB A8 JUK)TIC SY.IIU'TOIIS.
" 'l'hltIUiillaa 8otr f!IIJIIrita, llrlght ud ....,,
Wllida play'tl ia apdglldJ lllliee Nlllllll my hlan;
Wait a gleam fore1Janlias mefzom IMP'o,
Of quidt ap~ fate P AI tapeN mount
Expiring into wide diffusive flame,
Give one broad glare, into the eoc:ket sink,
And sinking diJappear. It mUJt be 10 1-"-JV. ~
A VE&Y remarkable agent, observable in a n~
ber of diseases, and capable of imparting an undue
degree of vividness to thought, is the cause of the
lever usually named Hectie.
By most medical men, the proximate came of
hectic fever is considered to be absorbed pus;
agreeably to which view, the aft'ection is merely
symptomatic of the numerous catalogue of dis-
eases in which this substance, originating from
abscesses or ulcers, enters into the circulation. By
a few, the cause is regarded as constitutional, and
hence the opinion, that it is characterized by a pe-
culiar temperament, the indications of which are
46 ILLUSIONS OF HECTIC FEVER.
a fair skin, blue eyes, yellow hair, lax fibre, and
sanguine disposition ; and that other fevers, u
well as the diseased actions of various organs of
the body, may induce the tnte hectic state.• On
either notion, however, the cause of heetic fever
must be regarded as an agent very materially
modifying the quality of the sanguineous fluid;
hence the small, quick, and sharp pulse, the py-
rectic indications of cold and hot fits, with sweat-
ings and other symptoms. Along with thie inBu-
ence exercised on the circulation, the mental feel-
ings are highly vivified, while the quality of them
is of such an exhilarating character, as to cherish,
amidst the most alarming indications, the falla-
cious prospect of returning health. Whilst cor-
poreal exhaustion gives token that the hectic
victim is fast .sinking to a premature grave, the
imagination, as if in cruel irony, is proportionally
rendered more and more lively. The wan and
emaciated student is buoyed up with blissful vi-
mons of future scientific acquirements never to be
realized:
---------------------'"F~cydftUU
Oflaeled loWitain&, of o'enhadowing groves,
Wboee·walb With god-like bannouy rt101111d :
F01111tailla which Homer viaita ; happy grona
• I much doubt the correctne1111 of thia latter view. See Good'•
Study of Medicine, voL ii. p. 166.
;,.,,,Coogle
- ·-
ILLUSIONS OF HECTIC FEVER. 47
Where Milton dwella. The intellec:tull power,
On the mind's throne, euapenda his graver c:area
And smiles."
In the still more advanced, yet moribund symp-
toms of hectic fever, the vividness which ideas
acquire becomes, in the highest degree, intense.
Patients are often deluded with the bli88t'ul visions
which our great bard, with such exquisite feeling
and taste, has dramatized in his pathetic repre-
sentation of the dying moments of Catherine of
Arragon:
CATHERINE.
--Saw you not, even now, a bleaeed troop
lnrite me to a banquet; whose bright f~~ce~~
Caatthoo111111d beams upon me, like the eon ?
They promised me etemll happineae ;
And brought me garlands, Griffith, which I feel
I sm not worthy yet to wear : I shall
Assuredly.
• • • •
PATIENCE.
Do you note
Ho• much her grace is alter'd on the Iudden ?
Ho• long her face ia drawn ? How pile ehe looka,
And of an earthy cold ? Mark her eyes.
G•IJ'J'ITB.
She is going, wench; pray, pray.
PATIENCE.
Heaven cood'ort her I
•
CHAP. VII.
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS Pl\OK I'DlliLE AND
INFLAMMATO:aY AFI'EOl'IONS.
" Extemal f'onu, f'orbiddell, mount the wmct.,
Retire to Ch-, or with night COJDJDix ; -
Irregular and Dew ; aa paiD or -
The apirita t.elleh to flow, and In the brain
Direction di'f- bold."
~··~·IIJ~.
IT has been sufficiently shewn, in treating of the
general pathology of mental illusions, that the
febrile miasma possesses a great power, through
the medium of the circuJation, of inducing an ex-
treme vividness of ideas. This cause, varioUJly
operating under the modified forms which it ac-
quires from di1Ferent climates and soils, baa fre-
quently given rise to spectral impressions. Inci-
dents of this kind, which more particularly occur
during the delirium attending the typhoid state of
fever, are indeed so comm.on, that it is needlesa tAl
dwell any longer upon this part of our iDquir)
ILLUSIONS FROM SYKPTOKATIC FEVBL 49
Also in certain inflammatory states of the sys-
tem, frequently, however, attended with an irrita-
ble state of the nerves, nothing is tDOI'e common
than·for patients to see phantasms, or to hear
imaginary sounds, while the dispelling of these
illusions generally succeeds to a copious detraction
of bleod. A very curious cue of this kind is
given in the 15th volume of Nicholaon's Phil080-
phicaJ Journal, which shows every internal evi-
dence of authenticity, although the narrator has
not, like Nicolai, had the courage to affix to it his
signature. " About twelve years ago, I had an
attack of fever, arising from some deep-seated in-
flammation, which caused acute pain in the left
side. It was occasioned by a cold caught at the
breaking up of the hard frost in the spring of
1795. The pulse was generally about 110 in the
minute, and the illness, which laated aome weeks,
was accompanied with disordered perception,
through almost its whole duration. At the com-
mencement of the fever, a slight defect of me-
mory was perceived in forming the phrases for
dictating a letter ; but this did not last, and I
found no difficulty afterwards in performing arith-
metical and other. processes by memory to as great
an extent as my usual habits could have gone.
The first night was attended with great' hnxiety,
and the fatiguing and perpetual recurrence of the
same dlftlll. I supposed myself to be m the
c
GO ILLUSIONS FROM SYMP'lOHATIC FEVER.
midst of an immense system of mechanical com-
bination, all. the parts of which were revolfing
with extreme rapidity and noise, and at•the same
time I . was impressed with a conviction that the
aim or .purpose of this distracting operation was
to cure my disorder. When the agitation was
carried to a certain height, I suddenly awoke,
and soon afterwards fell again into a doze, with
.repetition .of the same dream. Mter many such
repetitions it occurred to me, that if I could de-
stroy the impression or conviction, there might
.be a probability that the delirious dream would
.change its form ; and as the most likely method,
..I thought, that by connecting some simple visible
object in my mind, with the notion of cure, that
object might be made to occupy the situation of
the rapidly moving objects in the dream. The
consequence, in some measure, answered my ex-
.pectatlon ; for upon the next access, the recollec-
.· tion of the figure of a bottle, to which I had
.previously directed my mind, presented itself,
the rotation ceased, and my subsequent dreams,
though disturbed, were more various and less
irritating.
" The medical treatment consisted in the ex-
. ternal application of leeches to the side, with ve-
. neeection, and the saline mixttlre was taken inter-
nally.
. " A second night was passed with much agits-
;,.,,,Coogle
- -~-----~-
JLIA1SIONS FltOM SYMPTOMATIC I'EVEa. 61
tion in repeated doang, with dreams, in which,
exeept with regard to the strangeness. and incon-
sistency. of the objects that offered themeel:ves, it
was.ctifficult to distinguish .the time of sleep ~
that of wakefulness. . None of that anxiety of
mind remained.which had. added to the sufferings
of the preceding night. When morning came,
the state of.the sensations had either undergone a
change ; or it was more easy, as Hartley remarks,
for the real impressions of surrounding objects, to
predominate.over .the phantasms of disease. Be-
ing perfectly awake, .in full possession of memory~
reason, and calmness, conversing with those around
me, and seeing, without difficulty or impediment,
every surrounding object, I was entertained and
delighted with a suceession of faces, over which I
had no control, either as to their appearance, con-
tinuance, or removal. ·
" They appeared directly before me, one at a
time, very suddenly, yet not so much so, but
that a eecond of time might be employed in the
emergence of each, as if through a cloud or mist,
to its perfect clearness. In this state each face
continued five or six seconds,- and then vanished,
by becoming gradually fainter during about two
seconds, till nothing was left but a dark opaque
mist, in which almost immediately afterwards aP-
peared another face. All these faces were in the
highest degree interesting to me, for beauty of
62 ILLUSIONS F.ROII SYIIPTOilATIC J'EVEJL
fOrm, and the variety of exprellllion they ID&Ili-
fested of every great and amiable emotion of the
human mind. Though their attention was inva-
riably directed to me, and none of them seemed
to speak, yet I seemed to read the very aoul
which gave animation to their lovely and intelli-
gent countenances ; admiration and a sentiment
of joy and affection when each face appeared, and
regret upon its disappearance, kept my mind con-
stantly rivetted to the visions before it; and this
state was interrupted only when an intercourse
with the persons in the room was proposed or
urged." ·
The writer then gives certain other details re-
lative to his case, which I shall notice in a more
suitable part of this essay. He afterwards speaks
of a temporary suspension of these visions, which
he attributes to the effect of a medicine. " I do
not remember,, he adds, " how long these visions
lasted, but think it was. the next morning that
they all vanished, at the very instant of taking
a draught, composed of lemon juice, saturated
with potash, with a small addition of thE' ptilvis
Londinensis. I cannot think the effect was owing
to any peculiar virtue of this medicine, (for it took
place before the draught had actually entered the
stomach,) but ~erely to the stimulus of the subacid .
cold fluid ·
·' '
" Hgw :long the appearances .were stisperided
ILLUSIONS FROH SYMPTOMATIC FBVEB. 8S
I did not note, or have now forgotten. The
fever continued with the same frequency of pulse,
and pain in the side, attended with yawning aod
great increase of su1Fering while in the prone
posture. Notwith&tanding the saline antimonial
medicine was continued, the figures returned ;
but they now consisted of books, or parchmen~
or papers coutaining printed matter. I do not
know whether I read any of them, but am at
present inclined to think they were either not dis-
tinctly legible, or did not remain a sufficient time
before they v~shed.
" It occurred to me, that all these delusions
were of one sense only, namely, the sight; and,
upon considering the recurrence of sounds, a
few simple musical tones were afterwards heard,
for one time only ; soon after which, having
dropped asleep, an animal seemed to jump upon
my back, with the most shrill and piercing
screams, which were too intolerable for the con-
tinuance of sleep.
" Diseased perceptions of the hearing did not
again recur, and I do not remember by what
gradation it was, that the frequently changing
appearances, before the sight, gave place to ano-
ther mode of delusive perception, which lasted
for several days. All the irregularly figured ob-
jects, such as the curtains or clothes, were so
far transformed that they seemed to alFord out-
54 ILLUSIONS FROM SYMPTOMATIC FEVER.
lines· of. figures, of faces, animals, Bowers, and
other objects, perfectly motionless, somewhat in,
the:nuinaer of·wltat fancy, if indulged,. may form
in the eloods, or in the cavity of a fire ; but
much Diore ~mplete and perfect, and not to be
altered by steady obseriation or examination.
They seemed to be, 8e'verally, as perfect as the
rest of the objects With ·which they were com-
bined,·and agreed with them in oolour and other
respects."
65
CHAP. VIII.
S'PECTRAL ILLUSIONS ARISING FBOU INFLAU.
MATIONOF THE BRAIN.
And often where no real ilia aftiight,
I~ visionary ftenda, an endleaa train,
Aeail with equal or superior might,
And through the throbbing heart, and dizzy braiD,
And tbiftdng nerves, llhoot atinp of more than monal paiD.
BEATTIE. :
Ou& researches have hitherto been confined to the
blood, which we have considered as giving rise,
from its own independent chemical pro~es or
bulk, to certain intense states ·of the mind. It
is now of importance to inquire if similar effects
may not be referred to nervous influence.
According to the very important physiological
experiments ~f Dr Philip, it appears that the ner~
vous system consists of parts endowed with the vital
principle, yet capable of acting in concert with in~
animate matter ; and that in man, as well as in
certain well-known animals, electricity is the agent
56 INFLUENCE OF THE BRAIN AND NERVES.
thus capable of being collected by nenous organs,
and of being universally di1Fused, for purposes in-
timately connected with the animal economy,
throughout every part of the human system. The
agency, therefore,. mthe ~, in contributing to
produce numerous changes on the blood, and with
them equally numerous states of the mind, must
be very great ; and it is for this reason, that
throughout every part of the human body they
accompany vessels in their course. One set of
nerves takes a direction from the surface of the
human ,body, orfrom its cavities; also, agreeably
to the impressions receiYed from exteroal matter,
as well as to the diffenmees of animal structure
which occur in sensible organs, corresponding
sensations and renovated feelings are excited.
Hence, when we take into consideration the efFect
of certain gases on the blood in inducing defnite
qualities and degrees of vividness in our mental
feelings,. the conclusion is inevitable, that the nerves
belonging to the sensitive organs of our frame can-
not generate any mental afFections without &-st.
producing those peculiar sanguineous effects which
we have before described, and to which the im-
material principle of the mind seems, in some
unkno1VIl manner, to be related. It may be aleo
observed, that the Dlental feelings thus excited by
the nervous influence on the circulation, bear a
further relation to a set of nerves proceeding from
..
INFLUENCB OF THE B.RAIN A1'1D. KBBVBS. 6'7
amaD portions of the brain an~ spinal ~ which
supply tlae JBUt~Clea of vabmtary motion;·eaelt di&-
tiactstate«miDdatimolatiagwith a definite degree
of iOrce panicu1ar ..ueular fibres. But besides
the -~ of nerves ooncemed with Toluntary ~
tion, theft ia.another and far more extensive de.
aeriptioa, whiah exercise, through the medium
of ~ blood, an iniuence on the states of the
miad. Nenes of this kind, oonsieting of a ebain
of ~lions, to which coiDIJlUDications from all
puts ol thebrain and spinal marrow are·sent, form
theeaueoftheprocessesof secretion. The healthy
exercise of these functions is attended with a tem..
penture OODI!Iiderably rai8ed above that of the sur- ·
rounding medi~ aad hence the difterent sensa-
tioas liable tD result ·from salutary and morbid as-
similatious, or from the moderate, intense, or lan-
guishiDg circulation of the blood. It is then from
these causes that various degrees of vividness may
be imparted to our feelings.
This physiological view leads to the inference,
that with respect to causes of irritation acting on
the nervowt system, they may either influe11ce
nerves C9111leeted with the t.raalllllission of sensa.
tiODIJ and ideas from' ex&emal impreesioos, or they
may iaftuenoe those nerve& which are concerned
in dw prooeaaes of &eclletion ; in either ·case, how-.
nw, tJ.e vividness oi mental feelings ea:rmot fail
to be aft'eded. . On the adler hand, by merely
c!
L _
58 , SPECTJIAL ILLUSIONS OF PH&DTJ'JIS.
stim~. the. nerves which are transmitted.di-.
Fectly' fro~ the brain and spinal cord to· the vo-
lUntary niu8cles; nOthing niore than irregular mui-
cular aetions can ~e. Causes al nervous irrita- .
tion ·may also act iii two ways; they may ·eitbm:
directly influence·the 'state of the·bloOd, and with
it the state ·of·the mental feelings, or they may
prOduce a similar·effect, though far less in tlegree;
by exerting apc>wer over the elastic and inv.olun-
iary muscular fibres of the heart,:giving, by· this
means; either an increasing or dit:illniShing resist-
ance to the vital expansibility evincedin the volume
of the cirCula,ting mass.
Dr Philip has mentioned, as a result of his ex-
periments, that achemicalor mechanical agent very
partially irritating the brain and nerves is incap&--
ble of ·exciting the heart, but that it is inB.uenced
by ·all agents applied to· any considerable por~
tion of these organs, and that it feels the effect
of such an influence as long as it is applied. An
excitementof this kind is to be found in such inflam-
matory causes as .sudden alternations of heat and
cold; exposure to the rays of a vertical .a~, .the
.sudderi ·supj>ression of accustomed evaeuatiQns,
various kinds of poi8on, and inebriation. In ce~n
forms of cerebnil iidlammation, the first symptoms
.evince an·increasing intensity of all the sensuic>ns.
llri the ~·of a-lady, a patient-of Dr Good, there
was an intolerable acuteness of bearing &l)d -vision,
)
SPJDft'B.AL ILW~ OP P~NITU. 00
iDsomudl u.t the slightest light and sound; .eveQ.
the humming. of. a fty, became · inJ~pportable.
Ideas also were rendered more vivid. -But as the
·inflammation iacreased, the acute 8ellsibility to ex-
teraal impressions gradually diminished, while the
reeollected images of the mind assumed a most
€rightful reality. In an example which·came un-
der my own notice, ideas of vision were so intense,
that.although the patient. closed his eyelids, he
could not even then dispel the lively images of
demons that haunted his bed. The sleep was
moreover disturbed with the most horrible dreams.
A very curious case of spectral illusions is re-
lated by Dr Alderson of Hull, in which the irrita-
tion of the brain or its membranes seems to have
resulted from an extended inflammation under the
scalp.
'"Afew months ago,"' says this _
writer, " I visit- ·
ed Mr R., who was seized, in his passage from
America, with a most excruciating headach. He
obtained some temporary relief from the formation
of matter under the scalp ; swellings cameon in the
thmat, and he had some difficulty of respiration
when in bed. At this time, he complained to me
that he had troublesome dre&Dli, and that he seem.
ed to dream whilst awake. In a short time after,
he told me he had, for an hour or two, been con-
vinced that he had seen his wife and family, when
his right .judguient told him that they were io
60 81'1CCTRAL ILLUSION& OP PHRBNITIB.
Alilericla; and-the impression ,.. BO stroBg a h
nights aftetwards, and the eonversa:tion he had with
his 8t)l} 11& very parti<!ular and important, that he
could not help relating tbe whole to his frie&ds in
the morning, and requesting to know if his ·~
and son were not actually anived from Ameriea,
and at that time in the house. I was sent for ro
hold consultation, and he ~Tidently saw that they
all took him to be insane. He therefore immedi-
ately turned to me, and asked me, whether the
complaint he then had would bring on the imagi-
nation of spectres, and apparitions, and figures ;
for he had always hitherto been an unbelienr in
ghosts, and in every thing else ; he f'elt, and his
friends like'Wise acknowledged, that he was peF-
fectly sane, and strong in mind as ever he was in
his life. Having satisfied him with the nature and
extent of his complaint, and that it would soon
Tanish with his bodily sufferings, he and his friends
were made easy in their minds ; but the phantoms
became at length more troublesome, so that he
could not bear to go into his bed-room, where every
picture brought with it the association, and conjur-
ed up the spirits of the departed, or introduced a
train of unpleasant companions. Heremamed after
this in a low room, and was for a time free from
intruders ; but in a bright brass lock he again saw
his transatlantic friends, and never afterwards could
he look to it but he saw them ; and when I have
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
It..W810N8 OF DJiLmiUJf 'l'BBJfEN& 11
been with him, and have purpoeely taken up a
book, I have seen him hold comerM&iGo iD hia
mind's eye with them; and I have mometatarily
known himOODBider me as hearing and aeeing them
too-l 8811 momentarily, for he is a DWI of strong
parts, aad perfeetly convinced of the nature of the
complaint; for whenever I spoke, and he turned
from thelock, he could converse on religioa, physic,
and politics, as well as ever. He then changed his
house; the matter again formed under the scalp,
and he is now in a state of connlescence, aad totaUy
free from such visitatioll8."•
The efFect induced on the brain by intoxication
from ardent spirits, which have a strong tendency
to infiame this organ, is attended with very remark-
able effects. These have been lately described as
symptoms of de~WitMn lrem87&8.t Many cases, in-
deed, are recorded, which show the liability of the
patient to long-eontinued spectral impreuions. " I
was called," says Dr Armstrong," to visit Mr B.
J ., a mort spare man, in the- year of his age;
who, I was told, was so very ungovernable, that
his friends had provided a strait-waistcoat for him,
and only waited my approbation to put it on. I
found him in a state of extreme perturbation ; im-
pressed with the idea that two men were lurking
• Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. vi. p. 291.
t An excellent thesis on this subject was written in the year
1821, by Dr Begbie of Edinburgh.
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
ft ILLUSIOifS .QP DELIRIUM ,TBBMB.MS.
in .the adjoining room, who were determined to
.·morder him, and who had repeatedly, in the CO\ll'!i~C'
of the morning, fired pistols at rum·with that in-
wntion. In ol'der to escape-from the supposed ~
sassins, he had just made an attempt to leap
through the chamber window, and had oo.ly been
prevented from so doing by the interference of
some relations, with whom he had been struggling
very hard. I endeavoured to pacify him, by as-
suring him that no one should do him an injury,
and at last prevailed upon him to sit down. Oc-
casionally, however, he looked at me suspiciously;
and, upon the least noise being made below stairs,
started and stared wildly round the room. His
breathing was rather hurried. He occasionally sigh-
ed deeply, and at intervals he was attacked with a
dry hollow-sounding cough, which appeared to
shake his whole frame. His face was pale, and his
.countenance full of anxiety. To all my questions
his answers were confused, and not at all to the
purpose; he hesitated almost at every syllable,
and mistook the pronunciation ~f many words.
On inquiry, I learnt that he had latterly been in a
state of intoxication, more especially in the pre-
ceding week, and on Saturday the14th of Novem-
ber ; since which time he had taken less stimulus
than usual, with the intention of becoming tem-
perate.. The following particulars were likewise
related to me. On Sunday, the 15th of Novem-
ILLUSIONS OF DBLIRWH TBB.MBN& 68
her, he .complained of being very langui~ too\r.
' liule food, ~d only ~ about two glasses _
of
~ine, a small quantity of ale, and half a glas~ of
gin. Towards the evening he grew rath~r feyeriab,
~ passed an uneasy and sleepless night. He re-
mained nearly in the same state during the .ensn-
ing Monday, till late in t,he afternoon, when he
was seized with a violent hollow clanging cough,
which made him perspire profusely, and was very
troublesome through the night, which he passed,
as before, without sleep. On Tuesday morning
he had a severe fit of coughing, after which he ~­
came exceedingly fretful and irritable, the slightest
contradiction throwing him into an excessive pas-
sion. In the latter part of the day he refused both
.wine and food, asserting that he was confident some
wicked people were watching an opportuQity to
poilon binl ; and, when preparing to go to bed in
the evening, suddenly started, as if somebody wu
about to lay hands upon him. He soon afterwards,
however, went to bed, but obtained no rest what-
.ever. From this period the distraction _of mind
.increased, and he was in constant alarm about the
-safety of his person. At ~ early hour. the next
-evening, he desired to go to_bed; but, hearing a
noise made by a servant beneath his chamber, he
.leapt up -
in.great agitation, declaring that two men
~had j_ust en~ the house with the design.of mur-
.dering him. Being somewhat calmed by the kind-
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
fit ILLV8IONS OF DELIRIUM TREMENS.
ness of his friends, he went to bed again, and beg-
ged the• to he·watohful in the-night. He did net
8MB at all disposed to sleep, but talked at iilter-
vals ahout his life being in imminent da~ f~-
. 1ire-ann.& and poisOn, and kept OOBstantly·gfrther-
ing the bedclothes about him till daylight, when
he rose, much agitated with the fe8.1" of assassina-
tion, and bas since ooutinued restleee and alarmed."
Dr Armstrong, alter detailing several othersymp-
toms, meations the neult of a visit paid him three
days afterwards. • He bas taken his wine, food,
and medicine; wl!enever presented to him ; hut has
bad no sleepin the night; though he remained very
quiet till about six o'cloek this morning, when one
of the people w® sat up with him, refusing to let
him go down stairs, be burst into- a l'iolent paseion,
attempted to break opett the door of hie·chamber,
and insisted thac he was nf>t in his own house, but
detained by force ift some other. His wife, on
hearing the ~ came into the lOOm, and told
him ·he might go down stairs, or anywhere he
thought proper, and endeavoured, in a good-
humoured way, to convince him that he was really
at home; and at leftgth succeeded, by showing him
the dii'erent apartments of the house. Shortly
afterwards he requested a cup ot coffee, whieh he-
appeared to- relish; and then weDt to bed·~'
and fell into a sound tranquil sleep, from which he
has not yet awakened. Not wishing to disturb the
· ; ..· I
ILLUSIONS OP DELIRIUJf TREJONS. 6&
J*ut, I left the house without eeeiag him; but,
oa calliug again about two o'clock in the afternoon,
fouud that he bad just riaeo,.collected aad rational
upon every subject, but had DO very distinct reooi..
Jection of any thing that had paa.d during ~ill.. •
nees."•
A ease, even stilliDOI'e eurious,.is relattd by Dr
.A.1deraon.t " I was called upoa," he obeenea,
" aome time ago, to visit Mr , who, at that
time, kept a dram..ahop. HaTing at di1Ferent
times attended, md thence bowing him very well,
I was struck with IODlething aingu1ar upon my
first eutrance. He went up stain with me, but
eritlently hesitated GCCaSiouallyas he went. When
he got into his cllamber, he expressed some appre·
heosion lest I should consider him as insaae, aod
send him to the asylum at York, whither I bad
not long before sent one of his pot.eompanioD&
Whence all these apprehellliona ?-What is the
matter with you ?-Why do you look so full ol
terror ? He then sat down, and gave me a history
ofhis complaiDt.
" About a week or ten days before, after draw.
ins some liquor in his cellar for a girl, he desired
her to take away the oysters which lay upon the
8oor, and which he supposed she had dmpped ;-
• Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, voL ix. p. 146.
t Ibid, vol. vi. p. 288.
00 I:LLU8ION8 O.P •DELiRIUM TltEMENS.
the.girl, th~ him drunk, laug~ at him, and.
went out of the room.
" He eQdeavoured to take them up bhnself, and
to his great astonishment could find none.-He
· was then going out of the cellar, when at the door
be saw a soldier,.whose looks he did not like, att
tempting to enter the room in which he then was.
He desired to know what he wanted ~here; and
upon receiving no· answer, but, aa be thought, a
menacing loo~, he sprung forward to seize the
intruder, and .to his no small surprise found it a
phantom. The cold sweat bung upon his .brow~
he. trembled in every limo. It ·was the dusk of
the evening as be passed along the ·passage-r-t.be
phantom ftitted before his. eyes-he .attempted to
follow it, resolutely determined to eatisly biDlsW';
but as it vaoiehed, there appeared others, and
aome of them·a~ a distance, and be tOOl&usted bim-
aelf by fruitless attempts to lay bold of them. He
hastened to ·his family, with marks of terror and
confusion; for though a mao of the most .u1'-
daunted resolution, he confessed to me that be
aner had before felt wltat it was to be.oompl_.y
tlfti6ed, During .the whol~ of that night, he w88
OOIUitandy .tormented with a variety of ~'
80Dletimes of people who had been long dead, ~
other times of friends who were living; aJJd ha-
~ himself with continually getting out of ~'
to ascertain whether the people he saw were real
ILLUSIOMS OF DELIRIUM TRBIIENS. 81
or ·not. Nor could he always diatiDguiah who
were and who were not real customers, as they
came into the rooms in the day-time, so that his
conduct became the subject of observation; and
though it was for a time attributed to private
drinking, it was at last suspected to arise from
eome .other cause; and when I was sent for, the
family were under the full convidion that be waa
insane, although they eonfessed, that, in every
thingelse,except the foolish notion ofseeing a~
tions, be was ·perfectly rational and steady; Uld
during·the whole of·the time that he was relating
his caae to me, and his mind was fully occupied,.
he felt the most gratifying relief, for .in all tUt
time he had not seen one aJ)pfU'ition; and he waa
eWed with pleasure indeed, when I told him I
should-not send him•to York, for his was a com~
plaint I ·could cure at home. But whilst I .wu
writing a prescription, and had sufered him to be
at rest, I saw him suddenly get up, and go with a
hurried step to the door. What did you do that
I« .?-he Jooked ashamed 81ld mortified ~-he .bad
been so well whilst in .conTeraation with me, \hat
be could not believe that the .soldier whom be saw
enter the room was a phantom, and he got up to
conTince himself. .
~' I need not here detail particularly the .a.aedi-
cal treatment ad9pted ;, but it ~ay be as.well jnat
to state the circ\lmStances which probably led to
fl8. ILLUSIOM:I OF DELI&IUM TllUIJ:NS.
the-
complaint; and theprinciple ofcure. Sometime
preW.ously he had had· a quarrel with a drunken
soldier, who attempted,_ against his inclination,_ to
eater his house at an unseasonable hour, and in
the struggle to turn him out, the soldier drew his
bayonet, and, having struck him aCI"'88 the tem_.
piss, divided the temporal artery ; in consequence·
of which he bled a very 1arge quantity before·a
surgeon arrived, 88' there was no one who knew
that, in such a case; simple compression·with the
finger, upon the spouting al'tel!y, would stop the
e&'usion of blood. He had IIC8l'eely ~
from the effects ot·this loes orblood; wl»n he un-
dertook to accompany ·a friend in his walking.
match against time, in· which he went forty-two
miles in nine hours. Elated with success, he sPent
the whole of the lollowing day in drinking, but
found himself, a short time afterwards, se much
out of health, that he came to the resoluaon of
abstaining altogether from liquor. It was in the
eourse of the week following that abstinence from
his usual habits, that he had the disease. It kept
increasing for several days till I saw him, allowing
him no time for rest. Never was he able to gel
rid of these shadows by night when in bed, nor by
day when in motion; though he sometimes walked
miles with that view, and at others got into a va-
riety of company. He tolsi me he sufFered even
bodily pain, from the severe lashing of a waggoner
ILIAJ8ION8 OF DD.l&IUM TREifBNS. 69
with his whip, who came every night to a particu-
lar eomer of his bed, but who always disappeared
when he jumped out of bed to l'Eltort, which he
did several nights .successively. The whole of
this complaint was eft'ectually removed by bleeding
with leeches and active purgatives. After the
first employment of these means, he saw no more
phantoms in the day-time; and after the second,
only once saw his milkman in his bed-room, be-
tween sleeping and waking. He has remained
perfectly rational and well ever since, and can go
out in the dark as well as ever, having received a
perfect conviction of the nature of ghosts."'
70
CHAP. IX.
SPECTRAL II,LUSIONS ARISING FROM A HIGHLY
EXCITED STATE OF NERVOUS IRRITABILITY
ACTING GENERALLY.ON THE SYSTEM.
This bodileu creation Ecstaiy
le very cunning iJJ.-Hamlet.
THE examples brought forward in the last chap-
ter have, I trust, sufficiently illustrated the delu-
sions liable to occurfrom an extremelymorbid state
of the nervous system. We had previously seen,
that although an undue vividness of ideas directly
results from certain changes induced in the circu-
lating fluid, such changes might not only betraced
toan inherent qualityofthe blood, arisingfrom con-
stitutionalaffections,orto the suppressionofcustom-
ary and natural evacuations, but that they might
also ensue from adventitious agents of a chemical
nature introduced into the system. In extending
these researches, we further added to such causes
of spectral impressions the influence of the nervou11·
system, which nothing appeared more forcibly
5
,,,, e' ,,Google
PATHOLOGICAL REMARKS. 71
calculated to illustrate, than inflammatory states
of the brain or its membranes. Such extreme
cases, therefore, of nervous irritability, which take
their rise from manifest derangements of organic
structure, give us the 'best ·reason to expect that
consequences no less singular in their n«ture ·may
result from causes of a latent kind; where a highly
excited state of the nervous influence, not often to
be detected by actual examination, either generally
or partially affects the circulating system.
Agreeably to the view which I have given of
nervous fibres, they may be described as of three
kinds. Fibres of.the first description take their
course from the external organs of sense, or from
sen:ri.tivecavities; and,intranllilitting their influence
to the sanguineous system, thereby induce ~
.ponding sensations and renovated feelings. Fibres
of the second kind are connected through a ay~
teni of ganglions with the brain and spinal cord ;
their action on the blood.beingfor the processes of
secretion and assimilation, while, at the same time,
they are .capable of rendering the affections of the
mind more or less vivid. Nervous ·fibres of a
third class have no immediate corinexion with our
mental states, but merely obey the stimulus of the
will in inducing muscular motion. According to ·
this notion, therefore, the particular mental exci-
~bility about to be described,·arises from the in-
ftuence of fibres :Of the first and second kind. .
71 ECSTATIC ILLUSIONS.
It has long been usual to describe the viMotta.ry
illusions which are induced by an excessive; de-
gree of nervous infiuence, under the name .of
ecda8y, and · in Dr Good's System, they are
symptoms of the disease which he names Ca1"1.18 Ee-
81tuia. Their exciting causes are not only such as,
by ail'eeting the sanguineous 11ystem, assist in .
vivifying the mental feelings, but they may like-
wise be traced to certain .11trong emotions of the
mind, still remaining to be noticed, which resUlt
from our natural afreeti9ns. One of the most
striking eases of Ecstasis on record is that of Je-
rome Cardan, Professor of Mathematics at Milan,
who was born at Pavia in theyear 1601. He was a
man whoee temperament Partook -strongly of.the
aauguine description ; and this, no doubt, was a
predisposing cause, which, with an excess of nervous
irritability, materially coMpired to renderhim liable
to the traacee, which form the subject of the re-
mukable.narrative that he has published in his -eu-
rieus work, Ds V"tta.Propria. -The symptoms pre-
oediag each traftee were those which so 'llfBy fre-
quently 111herinmmy of the mental paroxysmsthat
we have traced in other diaeaees, and the'}l8thelogy
of which is so. well illustnted by tJae action bf
the nitrous .oxide Or febrile a.ias... There .was
an increued inteuity of the weneationa. A peea-
liar·feeling was ecperieaeed in the bead, which
gradually di6sed .iYelf fmm tJUs organ to other
··----. --- . ·~
ECSTATIC ILLUSION& 78
parts of the system along the coUl'lle of the spinal
cord. He perceived, a& he observes, a kind of
&q~U&tion from the heart, like the issuing forth of
the soul, while so serious a departure was felt by
the whole body, as if a door had opened; and
hence the impression which arose, that he was vialt-
ed by supernatural impulses. Shortly afterwards,
he wa& less sensible of actual impressions, while
spectral illusions of the most vivid kind became the
sportive objects of .his imagination. The words
of those who discoursed to him were but faintly
heard, and in time were imperceptible. His
~ of touch became less and less sensible to
pain, un~l, at length, he felt neither pullings nor
pnches, nor was he in the least degree conscious of
gouty tortures, but only of such causes as were
without the body. And, as he adds, when he
bad naturally no pain, he would excite it by whip-
ping himself with roda, by biting his lips and arms,
or by squeezing his fingers. But he did this to
prevent a greater evil ; for in so complete a state
of insensibility to external impressions, he felt such
violent sallies of the imagination, and peculiar af-
fections of the brain, as were more insupportable
to him than any corporeal suft'ering which he could
inftiet upon himself. Many of the ecstatic illusions
which Cardan experienced are minutely related.
" I saw," he observes on one occasion, " di1Ferent
figures, as of b~n substances. They !leemed to
D
74 ECSTATIC ILLUSIONS.
consist of small rings, like links of mail (-although
I had never yet seen chain-armaur), aseeoding
from a low comer of my bed, moving :from right
to left in a semicircular direction, and then meltl-
ing as into air. I descried the shapeJI af castles, of
houses, of animals, of harses with their riders, of
herbs, of trees, of musical instruments, of the di.Well-
ent features of men and of their di1ferent garments.
Trumpeters appeared to blow their trumpets, yet
no voices or sounds were heard. I saw, moreover,
sOldiers, people, fields, and the forms of bodies
even to this day unknown to me·; groves and
woods, some things of which I have no· remem-
brance, and a mass of many objects rushing in toge-
ther, yet not with marks of. confusioo, but of
haste." ·
It may now be of some little interest, to point
out certain other descriptions of symptoms, with
which trances like these are accompanied, It has
been observed, that there is a particular class of
nervous fibres, which have·no immediate relation to
our mental states, but are merely subservient to
the stimulus afforded by such states in their action
on voluntary muscles. For· thi1t purpose, they are
tnmsmitted directly·&om the brain and spinal. cord
to the particular muscular fibres, upon which they
are capable of inducing contractions. Ecstatic: il-
lusions may, therefore, occur, although the motific
nerves should not ·be unduly exei~ ; which not
•
ECSTATIC ILLUSIONS. 75
ualrequently happens when they disturb the imagi-
natiou of persons, who, from the regularity with
wbic:h muscular motions, at the same time, obey the
will, are supposed to be in per&ct health. In the
second place, ecstatic illusions may occur when
there is an equally intense excitement of the mo-
tme nerves. In such a case, the particular aftection
is induced, which·in Dr Good's nosology bears·the
nalile of CM"118 1Cita8Ut. This writer has conceived,
that in' the ddfu'sion of the moti6c influence, an ex-
~· of supply is equally felt by the extensor and
flexor muscles. Hence the muscles are thrown into
a rigid and permanent spasm, which gives to the
body so erect a position, and so lofty and unalter-
able a demeanour, that the unhappy visio1111ry, from
this imposing air of inspiration, has not unfre.
quently both deluded himself and others with the
notion, that his dreams were supematural visita-
tions. In the third place, the voluntary motific
nerves may be irregularly incited ; or, in other
wol'ds, the balance of action subsisting between
the·llexor and extensor muscles may be so dis.
turbed, that the frame will appear to be various.
ly convulsed or incurvated. I believe this to
be one of the varieties of ecstasis which nosolo-
gists have, perhaps rather loosely, refen-ed to
epilepsy ; but, as all the causes of the latter
aft'ection are by no meana decidedly pointed out,
it would, for the present, be a prudent step not to
76 ECSTATIC ILWSIONJ..
disturb Ute appeUatiOn.• In many iD&tancesof epi-
lepsy, Uterehas been such a Bow of spirits as to in-
dicate, that a very powerful nervous inftuence .was
generally .diffused throughout the human frame,
while, as harbingers of the paroxysm, there has
not only been the well-kno~ aura epileptica, but
also a wild display of phantasms. A woman,
whoee case is related by.Portius, was always warn-
ed of an approaching fit by the appearance of her
own image in a mirror ; and Sauvage mentions,
.that even during the paroxysm dreadful spectres
have been seen. It is likewise a curious fact, that
in such forms of the disease, real objects have OC-
casionally seemed magnified to an extraordinary
degree, while, among coloured substances, a green
hue has predominated. A fourth form of eC8taai8
is that .which occasionally occurs as a symptom in
cotaleply, where the inftuence of those nerves which
_are connected with voluntary muscles is so dimi-
nished, that the limbs are unable to resist external
force, but yield to it with readiness, and retain any
position in which they may be placed. To. an ex-
• Dr wu- PbiDip has lhe- fnlm ~aa - the
nervet COillleCted lrith voluntary muaclet are more powerfW!y in·
cited by mechanical than chemical causes of irritation. Thus we
see the reuon why Exostosis, or why foreign substances afFecting
the nenoua system, Should occaaionally operate as causes·M the
convulsions or epttepay ; and wby convulsions in general should
be repn1ea 11 JDel!ely iDtjj..lal to ecstatio·W.-ioni.
ECSTATIC ILLUSION& 7'7
ample of ibis kind I shall allude when treating,
upon a future occasion, of the second-sight of Scot.
land, which is replete with the ecstatic visions of
the·northern seer. These ~ best exemplified
when they partook of the imagery, whieh an early
distnicted state of the country seems to· have sug-
gested. But the time is past, when the gleaming
swords of hostile clans stained the Highland plains
with that blood, which now is only shed for mutual
defence:
" Bleak, l'bant'llie, from.thy caye oC cloud,
And spread thy purple wings ;
Now all thy figures are allow'd,
And Tarious shapes of things ;
Create oC ayrie tomu a meame,
It IDU8t !laTe IJlood, and nought ot Same,·
And though it be a waking dream,
Yet let it lilte an odour rise
To all the senses here,
And taillike sleep upon their eies,
Or music in their eare." •
I may again observe, that a general state of
nervous irritability not unfrequently exercises its
inBuence on the system, in concurrence.with high-
ly-excited conditions of the sanguine and melan..
cholic temperaments. In this case, some of the
most aggravated forms of mania are induced. A
• Vlaion of DeUght, by Ben Jouon.
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
78 B<JSTATJC 1LLUSION8.
very commonsym.pom.occurs, wAM.ch.is indicatiTeof
this co-operation of morbid cire\UD&taoces, in indu-
ing the intense -state,
-cifeelings incidental to ·m~
.cal paroxysms. I allude to the evident inOJ"ease of
action which takes plaae in that exteasive system
of ne:r:ves, upon w.hioh the ·prooesses of assimation
depend. This effect is poiQte.d out hy·the peculiar
symptoms, which arise in the orgao.s m.ore immedi-
ately connected .with digestion. " From the .cew.re
of the epigastric region," says Pinel, " are pl'Op$-
gated, as i.t were by a species of irradiation, the
accessions of insanity, when all the abdominal
system even appears to enter into the sad confe-
deracy. The patient complains of a sense of tight-
ness in the region of the stomach, want of appe-
tite, obstinate constipation, and a sensation of heat
in the bowels, which obtains a temporary relief
from copious draughts of cooling liquids."-" The
reaction of the epigastric region upon the func-
tions of the understanding is so far from oppress-
ing and obscuring them, that it appears even to
augment their vivacity and strength. The imagi-
nation is exalted to the highest pitch of develope-
ment and fecundity. Thaughts the most brilliant
and ingenious, comparisons the most apt and lu-
minous, give to the maniac an air of supernatural
enthusiasm and inspiration. The recollection of
the past appears to unrol with great rapidity, and
what had long been not thought of and forgotten,
E<JST.ATIC lLWSIONS. 79
i& then presented to the mind in glowing and ani-
mated colours."-In another place the same elo-
quent writer adds, "Dreams of ecstasy, and vi-
sions of heavenly pleasure, are the ordinary pre-
ludes to paroxysms of maniacal devotion : as those
of uDfortunate love are preceded by similar inter-
ruptions of sound and healthful sleep. The be-
loved object appears under the form of an exquisite
beauty, with every other advantage, greatly exag-
gerated by the magic power of fancy. But the too
happy dreamer, after an interval of more or less
continuance of reason and cAlmness, awakes once
more the noisy, the disconsolate, and the furious
maniac."*
• Pinel's Tieatlae on lllllllity ; tranalation by D. D. Da-ria
!f.D. ptl8ell 17 az~d 18.
80
CHAP. X.
THE SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS OF HYPOCBONDRIACKS.
There is nothing ao vune, absurd, ridiculous, extravagant, iJD.
possible, incredible, so monstrous a chymera, so pi'OdJsiftl aacl
strange, such as paintera and poeta.durst not attempt, wbieh tlley
will not really feare, flline suspect and iJDagine unto tbemeeJyes."
Burton'• AnatMny ofJtfelancholy.
NoT unfrequently a partial and irregular state of
nervous irritability acts in concurrence with highly-
excited conditions of certain temperaments. This
gives rise, in very sanguine or melancholic consti-
tutions, to the symptoms of hypochondrism. The
irregular action oftho11e nerves, upon which thepro.
duction of external impressions and the renovated
feelings of the mind depends, is indicated by false
affections communicated to the organs ofsense, par-
ticularly to those of touch. Hence the imaginary
diseases of which hypochondriacks suppose they are
the subject, as ·well as the ideal transformation of
the texture of their bodies into such substances as
glass, lead, or feathers. At the same time, the ir-
ILLUSIONS OF BYPOOHONDJliACKS. 81
regular action of other nerves, concerned in the
processes of assimilation, is productive of the usuaJ
morbid state which takes place of the digestive or
gans. Burton has summed up the extravagancies
of hypochondriacks in a few words : " Humorous
are they beyond all measure, they faigne many
absunllties voide of reason ; one supposes himself
to be a dog, cock, beare, horse, glasse, butter,
&c. He is a giant, a dwarfe, as strong as an
hundred men, a lord, duke, prince, &c. And if
he be told he hath a stinking breath, a great noee,
that he is sick, or inclined to such or such a
disease, he beleeves it eftsoones, and by force of
imagination will worke it out." It is useless to
dwell much longer upon this disease, as no spectral
impressionsoccurin it,whichhave notbeendescribed
in the chapter that treated of the illusions of mania
or melancholia. I might perhaps mention, that
the quality of such phantasies not unfrequently
iuurmoDizes with any tal• conceit that may prevail,
the theory of which will be an object of future iu-
veatigation. Tbig- circumstance is not unaptly
chmbed in Brewer's old comedy of Lingua:-
~· IAiely I ame from &ne PhaJitute•e hoate.- ·
No 10011er hM I paned out of doore,
Bot up I held my banda before my face,
To shield ui.ine eyee from the Jight•s pierciug beiune t.
When I proteat I eaw the BDD ae clear,
.Tflroap tbeee my paiDI8, u tbroofh a penpec:Qve •
D!
81! LESS ntEQUENT SOURCES
]I(• ~elt for w~ l beheld -'Y finpn.
.I aaw JIIJ 1illpra :w-~orm'li to~;
()pAning IllY ~t, IllY b~st ...~ lik!' a window,
Through which I plainly did perceive my heart:
In whos~ two conclaves I discem'd my thought•
Confus'dly lodged in great multitudes."
CHAP. XI.
CERTAIN LESS FREQUENT MORBID SOUROBS OF
SPECTRA]J ILLUSJONS.
Of various forms unnumber'd spectres more.
Drytkn'1 Virgil.
HAYING shewn, from various authentie medical
cases, the liability of spectral illusions to arise
from many morb~d affections, which are of very
frequent occurrence, it is by no means neces-
sary to my present object, that this part of the
investigation should proceed to a much greater
extent.-1 first stated that certain gases, when
inhaled, alter the composition of the blood, ren-
dering, at the same time, more vivid some particu-
lar quality of our mental feelings. Might not
then other aeriform substances be found, which
OF.SPECTJLAL ILWSIONS. 88
would have nearly the saDie ei"eet? An eminent
medical practitioner, from whoseingeoious ees&)t on
apparitions I have freely quoted, insinuates the
probability, that neeromancen, in imposing upon
any object of their art, may Occasionally avail
themselves of some gaseous matters, which, when
inhaled,
- - - - " by magic eleigbta
ShaJl raiae IUch artificial sprigbta,
Aa by the ltleDgth of their Wuioo
Sball draw him on to hil confuaiou."
"The celebrated conjurer or master-mason," re-
marks Dr Alderson of Hull, "whom we had
here some years ago, teld me, that he could give
me a recipe for a preparation of antimony, sul-
phur, &e. which, when burnt in a confined room,
would so .atfeet the pei'I!IOD shut up in it, that he
would fancy he saw spectres and apparitions."
Notwithstanding, howev-er, the liberal ofFer made
to this gentleman, the existenceofsuch a fumigation
stands in great need of eonfirmation.-But besides
the inhalation of gases, there are several poisont,
particularly of the narcotic kind, such as henbane,
the conium maeulatum, bella-donna, or the agari-
cus muscarius, which, when introduced into the
system by the organs of digestion, have the efFect
of inducing delirium, and occasionally spectral
illusions. In the violent mental excitement of
hydlophobia, it has been recorded, that the phan-
84t ~-•l!'UQUIIft'·80UtC£S
tasm-of tM dog whi.cll idicted .the fatal wou.Bd,
has eol05ime& haunted the bed of the wretched
pati.elit.
In the constitUtional af'eetion of gout, where au
altered quality of the cireulating fluid is evince4
by·its tendency to a morbid secretion of. oalCllll'tMRM
matter, similar states of mind, particularly in the
recedent form of the disease, have been experien-
ced. ..t\n excitement of gouty inJlammation, in-
stead of attacking the hands or feet, has, from
,some occasioqal cause, been transferred to the
brain, in which case, violent acute senl&tiou·have
~nsued~ and these again have been followed by the
most vivid yet painful ideas. To suclt symptoms
spectral illusions have sometimes supervened, .u
tAe following case, related by Dr Alderson, su£.
ficie.atly well illustrates :- ·
" I was soon after called," says this writer,
" to visit Mrs B., a fine old lady about 80 yean
of age, whom I have frequently viaited in fits at
the gout. At a period when, from her general
feelings, she rather expected the gout, abe was
seized with an unusual deafness, and great distea-
aion iD the organs of digestion. From this time
she was visited by several of her friends, whom
llhe had not invited, and whom she at first so w
considered aa actually present, that she told them
·abe was very rorry that she could not hear them
.peak,·DOr: bep up conversation with them : she
woaJd tha-efore order the:ctl'll:labte,·adll.i'dDg:tfle
bdl for that purpose. Upon·the efttn11Ce· ol the
liervant, the whole party diappeared-ehe eould
DDt help eXpressing her surprise to her maid .that
they should all go away eo abmptly; ·bot she
eonld 11carcely believe her wbea she told her that
there had been nobody in the room. She was eo
ashamed, that she suft'ered, for many days and
nights together, the intrusion of a variety of phan-
toms, &nd had ·some of beT finest feeliDgs wrought
upon by the exhibition of friends long lost, and
who only c:ame to cheat her fancy, and revive sen-
sationS that time bad almost obliterated. She de-
termiaed, however, for a long time not to com-
plain, and contented herself with merely ringing
her bell, finding she could always get .rid of the
phantoms by the entrance of her maid, whenever
they became distressing. It waa not till some time
after that she could bring herself to relate her
distresses to me. She was all this time convinced
oC her own rationality, and so were those friends
who really visited her ; for they never could find
any one circumstance in her conduct and conver-
sation tn lead them to suspect her in the smallest
degree deranged, though unwell. This complaint
.was entirely removed by cataplasm& to the feet,
aod gentle purgatives; and terminated, a short
time afterwards, in a regular alight fit of the gout.
She has~ ever·since, now IIOIJlewbat·more
86 THE MORBID ORIGJN OF AP~ARITIONS.
than a yev, in the perfect enjoyment of her health
~d . faculties••,
The 6nt object of this diteertation has at length
been completed. It is manifest, that with nu-
merous morbid afFections of the body, arising from
varioutly excited states of the circulating system,
or of the nervoua inftuence, the production in the
mind of spectral illusions.is necessarily connected.
Of such affeetiona, Scot, in his Di8covery of Witch-
craft, has well remarked, that " though they ~
peare in the mind of man, yet are they bred in
the bodie, and proceed from this humor, which is
the very dregs of blood, nourishing and feeding
these places, from whence proceed feares, cogita..
tiona, superstitions, faatings, labours, and suchlike.
This maketh sufferance of torments, and (as some
saie) fores)ght of things to come."
Relating to the subject of our future investiga-
tion, I shall now venture to ofFer a few general
remarks. The application of the cases brought
forward to those popular narratives on the subject
of ghosts or demonology, which may be regarded
• Edinburgh Medicll aDd Surgical Joumat, YOL vi. p. 291• .
THE liiOllBID OBIQJN OP· AftA&lTIONe. ff'/
asautheatic, is hut too plaio, while the iofenace
is in no less a degree fatal to the existence of
that world of spirits, which superstition has de-
picted from no other 80U1'Ce than ita own wild,
fallacious, and. morbid pbamasy.
A quation, however, may now be .IUl1ed by
amne few individ~ if this inquiry can with pro-
priety be conducted on the general preconceived
supposition, that every well-attested inst~, where
a communication with apparitions of various kinds
is suppoeed to han been held, ought to be regaro-
ed in no other light than as a pathological cue ?
To any such objection I would reply, that there is
only one line of demareation, beyond which re-
se&l'Ches of .this kind cannot meet with any appli-
cation. This is to be found in the p88e8 of sacred
history. Concerning the IJlaDJlef in which the
Deity, for signal purposes, has formerly chosen to
hold an immediate oommunion with the human
race, it would be irrelevant to offer any observa-
tions. At the same time, it may be neceiiii&IJ' to
observe, that as we are not warranted, for many
reasons, which may be defended on scriptural
grounds, to suppose that any direct converse with
good or evil spirits, connected with either the Jew-
ish or tbe Christian dispensation, has extended be-
yond the Apostolic age, there will be no hesitation
on my part to proceed on the hypothesis, that all
the subsequent viJitationa of this nature which have
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
88 THE ~ORBID ORIGIN OF APPARITIONI.
been recorded, deserve a medical rather than a
tn.l«igilfld inft!Stigaticlft.
·The late Dr Fterriar of Manehester waa the ilht
to show·the iarportanoe of explaining the causes,
which have given rise to the illusive creatiolis of
the mind: '' I conceive," says this ~e and in-
genious writer, ".that the unaffeeted acoount8 of
spectral visions should engage the attention of the
philosopher as well as the physician. Instead of
regarding these stories with the horror of the vul-
gar, or the disdain of the sceptic, we should ex-·
amine them accurately, and should ascertain their
exact relation to the state of the brain, and of the
external senses." • It must be confessed, however,
that in narratives of this kind, the circumstances
most .interesting to the.pathologist, either from
having been considered as unnecessary or incon-
venient to the purposes or views of superstition,
appear in most instances to have been altogether
suppressed. The field of inquiry is, therefore, in
this particular department of our dissertation, ra-
ther limited ; and hence the necessity of pointing
out beforehand those morbific causes, by which the
true nature of spectres may admit of a readier ex-
planation, than by having recourse for such a pur- ~
poseto theextravaganciesofa supernaturalageney.
• Ferrier's TheOry otApparitioll1, p. 138.
I
,,,, e' ,,Google
.r !
APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPIRIT8. 89
Yet still, a few scattered gJimpees of tntth hn.k
duough the mysterious atories which emte. the
~n of the learned and the vulpr, Ul4l, by the
light whieh such rays afford, I mall now avail
myself', however feebly it may gJeam through the
obscure and gloomy regions of demonology.
CHAP. XII.
REMARKS ON THE APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPIRITS,
RECORDED IN POPULAR NARRATIVES.
---~---:s:pirits, when they pleue,
Can either sex usum.e, or both ; so 10ft:
ADd UIICIOIDpOilDded ia their ~ pare,
Not ty'd or ID&IIIIded with joint or limb,
Nor founded on the brittle strength of bonea,
Like cumbrous flesh ; but in what shape they chuse,
Dilated or condens'd, bright or obscure,
Can execute their airy purposes.-Milrott.
lN adverting t& the subject of those waking viaioos
detailed in the first chapter of this work, which
Nicolai· the·Prnssian bookseller expmienced, it is
evident that his intense imagination was.impressed
with no appearance which was ofitselfsupernatural.
o;9;_;,edb,Google
00 A.PP.ARINONS OF GOOD SPIRITS.
The ~ects of his aeccma aight {to .use the wel,l-
known tenn of .the Sootish H~landelfJ), w;ere ~
of the Dl08t faoilisr kin~-een and womea in t~
natural form a1d aspect,· hones, dogs, or birds.
Not of this earthlf nature, however, were the ilhl-
sions of superstitious ages, which constantly U.
med either with angels or demons. Previously,
therefore, to the illustrations which I shall adduce
of the morbid originof such visitants, it may not be
uninstructive to glance at the opinions entertainec).
through a number of ages, relative to their nature,
functions, and proper buainess upon our globe.
In pursuance of this design, the present chapter
will be devoted to the consideration of benignant
spirits, and the apparitions to which they have
given rise.
From the evidenceofthe Holy Scriptures, we are
authorised to infer nothing more respecting those
spiritual beings named angels, but that they are
ministers whom the Deity has employed to execute
his special commissions. And happy would it have
been, if the -early Christians and Jews had been
contented with this simple information, without
framing a system on the subject, which, as a learn-
ed divine of the church of England has remarked,
savours more of some heathen ~ytbology than of
Christianity.* The Egyptians, for instance, be-
• Willon's A'febeologieal Dic:tionary, anide 4tf6fll.
APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPIRITS. f)l
lieYed in the constant attendanee of three angels
upon ~ery individual. The Romans supposed,
that such genii, as they named them, were meHeD-
gers between the gods and the hUIDMl race; coa.
ceivmg, therefore, with th.e Pythagoreans, that two
were sufficient for any siDgle individual, one was
supposed to be of a good and the other of an evil
quality. '' Theee," as Sheridan bas remarked in
his-notes to Persius, " were private monitors, who
by their inainuations disposed him to good or evil
actions ; they were not cmJy reporters of his crimes
in this life, but registen of them against his trials
in the next." The Jews founded their belief in
good and evil spirits, partly from the evidence of
the Scriptures, and partly fatom the notions of the
Pagans. SoJDe of their angels were creattd out of
tae elements of.&-e, and otlten out f1l the wind.
Whenever they issued from tJteir allotUd place,
they forieit.ed their iBUDOrtality. They instructed
m.,.kind in wisciom and knowledge. Every thing
in the world was uader their government. Even
to the various herbs of the field, &Uppoeed at that
time to be twenty-one thousand in'Dumber, preei-
ciug angels were .affixed. Other good spirits had
~ ~ive domiQioo .over plaats, trees, rain,
bail, thuJ)(ier, lightning, fire, fishes, reptiles, aoi-
...t.s, JneD, cities, empires, and nations.• Such a
• iuhelbla' Tlll4l.tiou tttlae Jews, Ttl. li. p: 71.
91 APPAMTlONS OP GOOD SPJitlTS.
Dotian, urifomanately for the Christian ·world,
very early aeoompanied the spreading of the ·
Gospel.. ADd; indeed, during· a very long period
afterwards, evident traces might be discovered· ()f
the prevalence of the same popular'opinion whi'eh
is mentioned by Symmachus, namely, "that the
Divine Being had distributed to Cities various
guardians, and that as souls were communiCated
to infants at their birth, so particular genii were
assigned to particular societies of men." When
the church of Papal Rome prevailed throughout·
Christendom, this belief was so far modified, thai
the functions of ministering angels were as~gned
io the spirits of departed saints, who at length be-
came so numerous, as to very materially obstruct
the ordinary current of human affairs. ·Hence the
very just declamation against so overwhelming an
interferencefroni the pen of the dauntlesa Reginald
Scot, who compares it to that of heathen deities ;
this writer not making the distinction at the time;
that· the saints of .the Roman calendar ·were th~
proper successors of the tutelar angels of ihe .TeW'-
ish talmud. " Surelie," says he, in a strain of JDaiBt
bitter irony, " there were in the Pbpish ehureh,
more of thelie anticbristian gods mnumbt't, ~
in rommon, more pri~ate, more publicke, more·for
lewd purpoeieS, and ·mt:Jre fdt· no purpoee; tJtaft
amoag all the heathen, either heretofore, or at ttris
present time; fer I ·daft undertake, that for everie
..UP~S .OF·~sn&ITI. 18
~en idol I .might pronounce weotie out of the
~opun church. For there .we~~e pliOper idols of
~J~ nation, aa St ~ on.honebaek for Eng-
J,&pd, St Andrew for Burguudie and Scot:Jaod, St
¥~ for Fran<Je, St James for Spain, St
Patrik.e for Ireland, St Davie for Wales, St
Peter for Rome and some part of Italie. Had not
eve:ry citie in all the Pope's dominions his severall
patrone: as Paule for London, Denis for Paris,
Ambr.ose for Millen, Louen for Gaunt, Romball
for Mackline, St :Marks Lion for :Venice, the three
Magician Kings for Cullen, and so of other. Yea,
had they uot for everie small towne and everie
village and parish (the names whereof I am not
at liberty to repeat) a several idol. As St ~
pulchre, for one; St Bride for another ; St All
Hallowes, All Saints, and our Ladie for all at
once. Had they not bee idols and shee idols,
some for oien, some for women, some for beasts,
and. some for fowles ? And doo you not thinke that
St Martine. might be opposed .to Bacchus ? If St
~e be too weake, we have St Urbane, St
Clemeot, and manie other to assist him. Was
Veu.us;and Meretrix ao advocate for whoru·ameng
~. Geu~? Behold, there were in the Romieh
c&l•rch w eD<lQUDter them, St Aphra, .St Apbr()l.
di&e,. and .St Maudline, Was there.8UiCh a traitor
A1119Df .the heathen idols as St Thomas Becketr
or sucll.a. whore as St Bri4getr.I wammt you,
2
94 APP~ltl'l'IONS OF GOOD SPIIUTS.
St Hugh' was as: good a huntesman as Anubis.
Was Vulcane the protector of the heathen smithes ?
Yea forsooth, ·and St Euloge was:patron for ours.
Our painters had Luke, our weavers had Steven,
our millers had Arnold, our tailors had Goodman,
our sooters had Crispine, our potters had St Gore
with a devil on his shoulders and a pot in his
hand. Was there a better horseleech among .the
gods of the Gentiles than St Loy ? or a bette11
sow-gelder than· St Anthonie ? or a better tooth-
drawer than St Apolline ? I believe that Apollo
Pamopeius was no better a rat-catcher than St
Gertrude, who hath the Pope's patent and com;..
mendation therefore. The Thebans had not a
better shepherd than St Wendeline, nor a better
gissard to keep their sheep than Gallus. But fur
physicke and surgerie our idols exceeded them, alJ~
For St John and St Valentine excelled at the fall-
ing evil, St Roch.was good at the plague, St Pe-
tromill at the ague. As for St Margaret, she passed
Lucina.for a midwife, and yet was but a maide ;
in which respect St Marpurge is joined with her
in commission. For madmen, and such as are pos-
sessed with devills, St Romane was excellent. For
botches and biles Cosmus and Damean ; St Clare
for··the eies; St Apolline for teeth ; St Job for
the pox;· and for sore brests St Agathe was as
good as Ruminus." This is- the expostulation•of
lionest Reginald Soot, who, in the true spirit of
APPAlliTlt)fG OF GOOD- SPWT& 95
the reforming age in which be lmtd,_ comes. to- the
CODClusion, " that all tbeee anticluistiaa gOO&,
otherwise ealled popisJl.dms, areas..UC devils" as
the Dii geatium spokea of in the peahns, or a& the
Dii montium, the Dii teJ!rai!Um, the Dii populo-
rum, the Dii teme, the Dii filiGI'UID, or the Dii
alie~ cited in other places o£the Scmpture.
I have quoted thus freely frGDl Scot's deaun-
cia4ioD of the Romish saints,. because it uum evi-
dence of the ascendeocy over the mind, whieh
these successors to the guanlian angela of still ear-
lier sects of Christians must luwe excited,. while it
no less satisfactorily accounts for the peculiar cba.-
racter imparted to the spectml illusions of Iropiah
times.
When the tenets of Rome were succeeded by
those of the reformed church, the influence of
tutelar saints began to decline. Still it was found
very inconvenient to the peculiar doctrines taught
in the sixteenth and seventeenth ct:~nturies that
there should not be-some hypothesis to account for
human actions, which philosophy could·not explain.
Thus, the learned author of the Religio Medici
has summed up, after the following manner, the
views of the learned on the subject :-" Therefore
for spirits," he remarks, " I am so-far from de-
nying their ex.ijltence, that I could easily believe,
tbat not only whol~ countries, but particular per-
trOllS have clleir .tutelary·and guardian ~Is. It
96 APPARITIONS OF GOOD.SPIRITS.
is not a new opinion of the .Church of Rome, but
an old one of Py~raa and.Plato. There is no
heresie in it, and ifnot manifestly defined in Scri~
ture, yet it is an opinion of a good and wholesome
use in the course and actions of man's life, ®d
would serve as an hypothesis to solve may doubts,
whereof common philosophy affordeth no solution."'
It is evidently for this reason, so well explained
by Sir Thomas Brown, that the hierarchy of~
soon became a leading feature in the pneumatology
of the schools ; poets even vying with grave me-
taphysicians, in rendering every compensation to
these ministering spirits for the neglect into which
they had fallen, when .their benignant offices had
been usurped by the saints of the Romish Church:
How oft do they their silver bowers leave,
To come to succour us, that succour want ?
How oft do they with golden pinions cleave
The flitting akiea, like flying purauivant,
ApiDH foul flenda to aid Ul militant p
They for ua fight, they watch and duly ward,
And their bright squadrons round about us plant,
And all for love, and nothing for reward :
0 why should heavenly God to man have such regard ?
Spe1Uer.
A doctrine, thus sanctioned by the most eminent
men of the age, again made its way among the
vulgar, and in the course of time gave rise to the
grouest.IUpentitiona. Thus, in a popular work,
APPARlTIONS OF .GOO'D SPIRITS. 97
entitled, ~''Curiosities, orthe Cabinetof Nature, by
Robert Basset," published in the year l~, when
aquestion is asked, " WAerdflre i8 it dt,at tke'cmlde
cryes when the abaent nurse's brests doe pricke and
ake?" the answer is as follows :-" By that the
nurse is hastened home to the infant to supply the
def~ ; and the reason is, that either at that very
instant that the infant hath finished his concoction,
the breasts are replenished, and, for want of draw-
ing, the milke pains the breast, as it is seen like-
wise in milch cattell : or rather' tlte good genitu
f!f the i"!f'ant seems by that means to solicite or
trouble the nurse in the infant's behalfe: which
reason seemeth the more firm and probable, be-
cause sometimes sooner, sometimes later, the
child cryeth ; neither is the state of nurse and
infant alwayes the same." While this quotation
illustrates the popular use that was made of the
doctrine of guardian angels, an extract, which
I shall give from another author will prove, that
the superstition at length, very properly, in-
curred the censure of divines. Thus, in New-
ton's " Trial of a Man's own selfe," the author
cautions the Christian against the trusting " to
the helpe, protection, and furtherance of angels,
either good or bad, for the avoidihg of any evill,
or obtaining of any good ;" and he considers this
belief as derived from " that paultring mawmetrje
and heathenish worshipping of that domesiicall
E
•
98 APPADTION8 OF·.eoo& .,Wft
g«i, or familiar augell, which was thought to be
appropried to everie particular pel'SOD." A 1Mer
writer, who has notWed the dectrii1e of .guardian
angels, is the learned and piou Nelsm.. He be-
lieves in their common ministry about .the per80D&
of good men, and that they are preaent in all
public anemblies of God's wonhip; but he·very
properly cautions his readers against wonhippi:ag
them, since they are nothing more·than ministers
to mankind. This doctrine, if it does not meet
with a complete sanction from scripture, is at least
so divested of all the serious objections which can
be urged against it on the SCOl'e of idolatry, that
none surely but the merest cavillers wo.Id ventqre
to engage in the unwelcome task of its refutation.•
It may be now interesting to ascertain the opi-
nions entertained on the general form and.~ter
of those angelic beings which have imparted a pe-
culiar clw-acter to the numerous spectral illasicms,
that have in dift'erent periods.of the Cbriatian era
been recorded. During the ascendeocy of popish
saiDts, the bebef in an hierarchy of angels ~
rather languished than expired; and when in an
• I may remark that, regarding the general history of the au-
perstitions connected with tutelar saints, there is an interesting
article on the subject in E1lis' edititin of Brand's Popular Anti-
quities, 4to, ·\'ol. i; 'P· 281, to which I have been oCcasionally in-
debted. • ' .. ' .
A:P.P.t:att'IOtfS mr:GOOD IPD.r.l'&;. 99
early period of the ·Reformation, the doctrine be-
gan to be revived, the corporeal shape or material
habitation attn"'buted to such spirits, was checked
by the authoritative voice ol the metaphysicians.
"·.Now for that iiamjderiaJ; WU"kl," says Sir
Thomas Brown, " methi:Dks we need not wander
so far as the first monable; for, even in this
material fabrick, the spirita walk aa·freely exempt
from the al'ection of time, place, and motion, as
. beyond the extremest circumference; do but ex-
tract from the corpulency of OOdies, or resolve
tlliogs beyoncl tlleir first matter, and you discover
the habitation of angels." Such a dootrine would
of necessity be very puzzling to the poets, whose
descriptions alwaya include material images; no
alternative, therefore, remained for them but to re-
vive t.he opinion that angels were capableof subsist-
ing either with or without any eenaible forms.
Of this Tiew, so strongly inculcated in the 17th
century, particularly by Milton, it is an interest-
ing circumstance, that the author of the sublime
·tragedy of Manfred has recently availed him~elf.
MAXFKBD..
I would beheld ye face to faee. I har
Your 1'0ices, aweet Uld melaneholy aollllda,
Aa muaie on the waten ; and I see
Tbe atndy aspect flf a dear large atar J
Bu118thbag more. App!OIICh me u y. are,
0r ODt, « aD, iD p11U IICCIIItom'd t'clnu.
]()() APPARITIONS OF 0000 SPIRITS.
SPIB.IT.
We have no forma beyon!l the elements
Of which we are the mind and principle:
But ch0011e a form-in that we will appe:u.
Cowley, the most metaphysical poet of his time,
was more anxious than any other deaeriptive wri-
ter, to render his spirits as little revolting as pos-
sible to the pneumatology of the schools; he,
therefore, with becoming taste, fashioned the bodies
and clothes of his angels with all the attenuated
materials which he could discover, such as air,
clouds, dew, solar rays, meteors, vapours, and
rainbows:-
Then, Gabriel, (no blesa'd ap'rit more kind or fair)
Bodies and clothes himself with thicken'd air;
AU like a comely youth in life's fresh bloom,
Rare workmanahip, and wrought by heav'Dly loom I
He took for akin a cloud moat soft and brigh1,
That e'er the mid-day aun pierc'd thro' with light;
Upon his cheeks a lively blush he spread,
'\Vash'd from the morning beauty's deepest red;
An harmless fbmlng meteor shone for hair,
And fell adown his shoulders with loose care :
He cuts out a silk mantle from the skies,
Where the moat sprightly azure pleaa'd the eyes;
Thia he with s&arry vapoura spangles all,
Took In their prime e'er they grow ape, and fall ;
Of a new rainbow, e'er it fret or fade,
The choicest pieee took out, a scarf is made ;
Smallatreamhlg clouds he ·deea for wings 6play,
Nor virtu~ kmn aitJiaa more soft tlan they ,
APPARITIONS 01' GOOD SPI.&ITS. 101
Tbeee he giJda o'er with the aD's richest rays,
Caught glidiDg o'a ~ 1tn1ma on which he plays.
Co.ky'1 Davtdei#, Book 2d.
The object of my dwelling thus fully upon the
source whence the guardian spirits ofpopular belief
have derived their peculiar character, will now, I
trust, be sufficiently obvious. An interpretation has
been attempted ofa certain quality of apparitions,
which with weak minds has long served to confirm
the ineessant operation of tutelary genii. In refe-
rence, al8o, to the view whiehI have taken,that spec-
tral illusions ought to be regarded as nothing more
than recollected images of the mind, which have
been rendered as intense as actual impressions,
the figures of all such phantasms may be indis-
criminately referred to the deliaeatiollfl of those
enthusiastic declaimers, historians, or poets, who
have boldly attempted to supply from their own
wild phantasy, the forms which they have suppos-
ed to have been imperfectly described in sacred
records. From the imagination of ecclesiasti-
caJ writers ; from the stone or carved images ·
of saints and angels which have adorned the
walls of religious edifices ; or from emblematical
piet~ or portraits, which might have other-
wise met with a popular di1Fusion, the sensible
forms assumed by apparitions of this kind have
been derived. By a high-wrought embellish-
lO!a APPARITIONS 01' GOOD SPIIliTS.
ment, they havebeen as determimttely futecl ia the
mind, as any familiar object ~hich may be found
in nature. No wonder then, that when, from some
morbid state of the system, the superstitious have
been rendered liable to spectral impressions, the
figures of saints and angels alwl:lld,. aboYe all otheF
shapes, have formed the subject of theUo- waking
visions.
I shall now prOceed to the last part of·tbis pal'•
ticular investigation, which is to illustrate from a .
few well-authenticated apparitiOBS of good spirits,
those predisposing causes that have been ~
ly connected with the productiOb of all such illu-
sions. But I must here repeat the caution, tW
pathological cases of this kind are, from various
causes, difficult to be obtained ; the real state of
the seer's health being but too frequently deemed
unworthy of note,. arid in some inuances purposely
withheld.
It may then, in the first place, be· obeerved~
that highly-excited states of tlae sanguiaeous or
melancholic temperaments, conspil'ing witb. great
nervous irritability, have, more than ··--.r other
causes, gi~en rise not only to the panicular appa-
ritions·of 'Which I am about to treat, but to tlleie
of every other ' quality. With what truth bas
Pinel remarked, ·that " the history of m...ity
claims alliance with all the errors and ilelu&ioos of
ignorant credulity ; with those of witchcraft, de-
APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPJJtiTS. 10$.
moniacal possession, oracles, and divination. As
such,,. adds this excellent writer, " these are sub-
jects by no means unworthy the consideration of a
medical philosopher ; and espeeially of him whose
peculiar oftiee it is to administer hea!th and conso-
lation to miads distressed and diseased. Informs..
tion, from whatever IIOUI"Ce, merits acceptance, but
occasionally it must be sought where ordinary
inquilers a:re either unable or too indolent to ook
hit."'•
The life of Saint Teresa is a very instructive in-
~tmce of the eWeets of Melancholia. "Her frame,.,
srysMrTownsend,who,in his Tour through Spain.
has givea an abatract of her life, " was naturally
~' her imagination lively, and her mind in-
capable of being fixed by trivial objects, turned
with avidity to those which religion oft'ered, the
IDGIIlellt they were presented to her view. But,
unfortunately, meeting with the writings of St
Jerom, she became enamoured of the monastic
lite, aDd quitting the line for which nature de-
ligned her, she renounced the moat endearing ties,
aad boulld herself by the irrevocable vow. Deep
·aelaacboly then seized on her, and increased to
sueh a degree, that for many days she lay both
,utotionlees and een~eless, like one who is in a
. tnDee. Her W1der frame thus ~en, p~
JO(t 4PP..UITIONS OF GOOD SPIRITS.
-her for !!Cstasies and visions, such as it might
appear invidious to repeat, were they not related
by herself and by her greatest admirers. She
tells us, that in the fervour of her devotion, she
not only became insensible to every thing around
her, but that her body was often lifted up from
the earth, although she endeavoured to resist the
motion ; and Bishop Yepez relates in particular~
that when she was going to receive the Eucharist
at Avila, she was raised in a rapture higher than
the grate, through which, as is usual in nunneries,
it was presented to her.... The writer then makea
us acquainted with ~everal particulars of the vi-
sions which lhe experienced, as, for in~ce, that
she often hearo the voice of God when she was
recovered from a trance,-that she frequently saw
St Peter and St Paul standing on her left hand~
and that, " once when she held the cross which
was at the end of her beed11, our Lord took it from
her, and when he reetored it, she IMlW it composed
of four large gems incomparably more precious
than diamonds. These had his five wounds en-
graved upon them afrer a most curious manner ;
and he lOld her that she should always see that
same appeanuace.. .Aud so 11he did ; for from that
time she no looger saw the matter of which the
cross was made, but. only these preciQus sto~
although. no one saw them but herself.... Mr
Townsend~s general .conclusion on this interesting
APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPilllTS. 104
case is too important to be omitted. " It is cu.
rious," he :remarks, " yet moet hulniliatiug, to see
a person of this deacriptioo, amiable and respec-
table aa St Teresa, deceind, and, with the best
intentions, deceiving others. In this instance, we
can readily account for the delusion, from the de-
licacy and weakuess of her frame, the strength of
a disturbed imagination, and the prevalence of
supentitioo. But when we aee men of the finest
understandings, in perfect health, of d.i1ferent and
distant nations, in all ages, treading upon the
same enchanted ground, we can only wonder ; for
who can give any rational account of the aberra-
tions of our reason ?" This is, indeed, an excellent
observation; I must, however, dispute the propriety
of one expression, in which the writer supposes
that the objeets of such illusions may be in perfect
health. On the contrary, I believe that no appari.
tiona of profane history were ever seen under any
such circumstances ; but that they have univer-
sally arisen from morbific causes.
Another interesting narrative of nearJy the same
kind is to be found in Dr Crichton's "Enquiry
into the Nature and Origin of Mental Derange;
ment." This author has translated from the
Psychological Magazine of Germany, a very cu-
rious account, drawn up by a lady of good credit,
relative to the celestial sights which she had wit-
nessed. This female, who in other. l'eSpects pos-
E!
•
106 APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPIRITSr
-sessed considerable intelligence, ~ such a belief
inthe reality of her visions, that.shecommencesher
account with an acknowledgment to the Lord of
Lords, for the singular ·and gracious condescen-
sion with which she has been favoured. The able
physician, however, to whose learned dissertatioD
I am indebted for this case, has satisfactorily
proved from certain confessions of the lady, that
an aura epileptica, with other equally well-known
symptoms, were felt during the prevalence of these
illusions. As I have, therefore, on a former occa-
sion endeavoured to shew, that a general state of
nervous irritability, not unfrequently heightened
in its effect by a strongly-excited sanguineous or
melancholic temperament, is a predisposing cause
of spectral impressions, I must eonsider, that the
following example affords an ample elucidation of
~uch an affection, which may occur either with 01'
without the adventitious symptoms of conrulsion.
The illusions,which the lady experienced,first came
on _
in the fourth year of her age, while she was sit-
ting with her little doll upon her knees; and for
the greater convenience of dressing and undressing
it, resting her feet upon a large folio Bible. " I
had scarcely taken my place," sheobserves, "above
a minute, when I hearda voice at my ear say, ' Put
the book where you found it;' but as I did not see
any Person, I did not do so. The voice, however,
, repeated the mandate, that I should do it imme-
AEPABJTIONS OF GOOD SPIRIT& 107
diately ; and, at the same time, I though.t some-
body took hold of my face~ I instantly obeyed
with fear and trembling; but not being able to lift
the book upon the table, I called the servant-
maid to come quickly and assist me. When she
came and saw that I was alone and terrified, she
scolded me, as DQbody was there." It may be re-
marked of this part of the account, that the voice
which the narrator heard can only be regarded as
a renovatedfeeling ofthe mind, resultingfrom some
prior remonstrances that she might have incurred
from her protectors, whenever she treated with un-
becoming irreverence the holy volume ;-while the
impression of a persontaking hold ofher face, may
bereferred to some morbid sensation of tQuch, inci-
dental to many nervous affections, which would
easily associate itself with the imaginary rebuke of
her mysterious monitor, so as to impart to the
whole of the illusion a certain degree of connexion
and consistency. The patient (for such I shall
call her) next describes the extreme diligence and
the peculiar delight with which, as she grew up in
years, she read twice over, from the beginning to
the end, the pages of the Scriptures; and she
likewise dwells upon her constant endeavour to
render the Bible more intelligible, by often hearing
sermons aad reading religious books. It is cer-
tainly Qf importance to know the subject of her
incessant and anxious studies, as it is well calculat-
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
108 APPARITION6 OF GOOD SPIRIT&
ed to explain the nature of her visioni, which, as
we might.expeet, were generally of a religious de-
~ription. We are, ill the next place, told by the
lady, that after she had reached her seventh yeaz,
she saw, when.playing, a clear Same which seem-
E)d toenter through the chamber-door, while in the
middle of it was a loog bright light about the sise
of a child of six yean old. The phantasm re-
mained stationary for half..an..hour near the stove
of the room, and then went out again by the
room-door; the white light first, and the 1lame
following it.-After this vision, we hear of no other
until the lady is married, when, unfortunately, her
husband made her Jife so bitter to her, that she
could think only of death. Hence, must have ne-
cessarily arisen the combining ~uence of strong
mental emotions, which could not but act as
powerful exciting agents upon a frame, the mental
feelings ofwhich, from constitutional causes,wereof
the ·most intense kind. Spectral illusions would of
course become very frequent. Thus, on one occa..
sion, w~en she had received some ill treatmentfrom
her husband, she made a resolution to desist from
prayer, thinking ~he Lord had fo~ken her; but,
upon farther consideration, she repented of this
purpose, and, after returning thanks to H~ven,
went to bed. She awakened towards the morning,
and then, to her astonishment, found that it was
broad daylight, and that at her bed-side was
APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPIRITS. 109
seated a heavenly figure in the sbape of a man
about sixty years of age, dressed in a bluish robe,
with bright hair, and a counteunce shining like
the clearett red and white crystal. He looked at
her with tenderness, saying nothing more than
' Proceed, proceed, proceed.' These words were
unintelligible to her, until they were solved by
auother phantasm, young and beautiful as an angd,
who appeared on the opposite side of the bed, and
more explicitly added, ' Proceed in prayer, prO-
ceed in faith, proceed in trial8.' Mter this in-
cident, a strange light appeared, when she imme-
diately felt henelf pulled by the hairs of her head,
and pinched and tormented in various ways. 'l'he
cause of this aftliction she soon discovered to be
the devil himself, who made his debut in the usual
hideous form under which he is personated, until
.at length the angel interfered and pushed away th£>
foul fiend with his elbow. " Afterwards," as the
lady added, "the light came again, and both per-
sons looked mournfully at it. The young one
fhen said, ' Lord, this is sufficient ;' and he utter-
ed these words three times. Whilst he repeated
them, I looked at him, and beheld two large white
wings on his shoulder, and, therefore, I knew him
to be an angel of God. The light immediately
disappeared, the two figures vanished, and the day
was suddenly converted into night. My heart
llO APPA&lTIONS OF GOOD SPIRITS.
wJ&S. 4g8in .restored to ita. right place_ the pain
ceased, and I arose." *
A few remarks may next be made oo the blessed
spirits with which dying persons are .said..to have
occasionally held converse. " Oh !" said a female,
as 1 find it recorded in Turner's.. History of re.
markable Providences, '" if you saw such a glo-
rious sight as I now see, you 'fould rejoiee widl
me. For I see a vision of the joys of heaven, and
of the glory that I shall go into, and I see infinite
millions of angels attendant upon me, and watch-
ing to carry my soul into the kingdom of heaven."
Respecting such a narrative as this, I shall merely
repeat the observation which I made, that it is by
no means uncommon in a far advanced and mori-
bund state of hectic symptoms, and, indeed, in the
last stage of many other corporeal aft'ections, that
the patient should see apparitions, which may also
be of a cheering description, The frequency of
this incident being kept in view, an explanation is
readily aft'orded of the numerous communications,
which pious individuals on their deathbed are
• On two occasions it ia stated in the narrative, that the lady
was favoured with a sight of out Saviour. Another vislon ia like-
wise related of a very remsrkable kind. But it Ia probable from
tbe account wllidl abe gina; that these illaaiona took place iD her
eleepiag chama.. The eeataq now dtltribed ia .-otliaWe to this
ob~oa, as it ommed during an epileptic fit.
APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPIIUTS. 111
supposed to have held with benignant spmts.
Thatall such alleged visitants, as they standrecord-
edin profane history, are illusory, I must decidedly
maintain; and, sincethedevoutest ofChristiansonly
partakes with humanity in general, by being occa-
sionally liable, from such causes, to spectral im-
pressions, no regret ought to arise, that the angels
which he has seen are the mere phantasies of hie
diseased imagination. It is rather consolatory to
think, that, on such occasions, the quality of his
waking visions has accidentally harmonized so well
with the prospect ofthose heaven]y blessings, which
are promised as the reward of a well-spent life.
The foregoing observations lead me, in the next
place, to notice the angelic spirits which have not
unfrequently visited persons of dissipated habits,
particularly those who have laboured under such
mental afFections, as supervene to habits of inebrie-
ty. Every medical man is aware of the phantasies
resulting from deliritvm tremH!4, of which I have
already adduced some very curious examples. I
entertain, therefore, little doubt, but that in this
state of mind, drunkards have not unfrequently
enjoyed a friendly intercourse with imaginary
spirits of a benignant quality. "Some, through
:weaknesses of body,, says Reginald Scot, " have
such imperfect imaginations. Drunken men also
sometimes suppose they see trees walk, according
to that which Solomon saith to the drunkards,
,,,, e' ,,Google
112 APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPIRITS.
• thine eyes shall see strange visions and marvel-
lous appearances.'" Of the angels who have conde-
scended to hold an intercourse with mortals of this
description, t~e case of Major Wilkie, as related
by Baxter, in his Certainty of the World of Spirits,
as well as by other writers, affords a memorable
example. This gentleman was a Scotish engineer,
who was employed in the civil wars which took
place between the parliament and the unfortunate
Charles. He is described as a scholar of no mean
attainments, but as a great drinker, and possessing
a very heated brain, which did not, however, im-
pair his reasoning powers. He lived for some
time in Coventry, at which place he affirmed, that
he was constantly surrounded by both good and
bad spirits, the former of whom were evidently the
most friendly to him, as they endowed him with a
spirit of prophecy. Thus, he maintained, that the
phenomena of thunder and lightning were nothing
more than the wars of spirits, by means of which,
and a vision that he enjoyed at P~ he pre-
dicted the issue of the war with the parliament,
and the near approach of the millenium. He was
constantly attended, like some ancient Roman, with
two genii, one of a benignant, and the other of an
evil character ; but the influence of the former pre-
vailed, as, from this source of intelligence, he was
enabled to expound the Scriptures in a way per-
fedly different from that of ordinary commen~
APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPIRITS. 118
tors. For instance, he amused his followers with
alearned disquisition on the devil'scontention about
the body of Moses, nor did he fail to notice other
equally important texts of the Scriptures. It is
added, that this gentleman afterwards became dis-
tracted,and, unfortunately, diedfromwant.-There
is also another spirit-story of nearly a similar pur-
port, which is recorded by three or four writers of
the seventeenth century. In Turner's History of
remarkable Providences, it is thus related : " A
gentleman formerly seeming pious, of late years
hath fallen into the sin of drunkenness; and when
he has been drunk, and slept himself sober, some.
thing knocks at his bed-head, as if one knocked
on a wainscot ; when they remove the bed, it fol-
lows him ; besides loud noises in other parts where
he is, that all the house heareth. It poseth me to
think what kind of spirit this is, that hath such a
care of this man's soul (which makes me hope he
will recover). Do good spirits dwell so near us?
or are they sent on such messages ? or is it his
guardian angel? or is it the soul of some dead
friend that suffereth, and yet retaining love to him,
as Dives did to his brethren, would have him
saved? God keepeth yet such things from us in
the dark."
. 'fhe last case which I shall give on this subject,
is that of John Beaumont, the author of a " Trea-
tise on Spirits, Apparitions," &c., which was pub-
114. APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPIRITS.
lished in the year 1705. He is well described
by Dr Ferriar, as " a man of a hypochondriacal
disposition, with a considerable degree of reading,
but with a strong bias to credulity." Lalxmring
under this corporeal affection, he saw hundreds of
imaginary men and women about him, though, as
he adds, he never saw any in the night time, un-
less by fire or candle-light, or in the moonshine.
" I had two spiritS)" he says, " who constantly at-
tended me, night and day, for above three months
together, who called each other by their names;
and several spirits would often callat my chamber-
door, and ask whether such spirits lived there,
calling them by their names, and they would
answer they did. As for the other spirits that
attended me, I heard none of their names mention-
ed, only I asked one spirit, which came for some
nights together, and rung a little bell in my ear,
what his name was, who answered .A.ml. The
two spirits that constantly attended myself ap-
peared both in women's habit, they being of a
brown complexion, about three feet in stature ;
they had boih black loose net-work gowns, tied
with a black saah about the middle, and within the
net-work appeared a gown of a golden colour,
with somewhat of a light striking through ,it.
Their heads were not drest in topk~t&) but they
APPARlTIONS OF GOOD SPIRiTS. 115
had white linen caps on, with lace on them about.
threefingers.. breadth, and over it they had a black
loose net-work hood."
These are the few well-authenticated instances
which I shall now offer on the present sub-
ject of our inquiry, although they might have
been easily multiplied, even to an enormous ex-
tent. Dut however numerous spirit-stories may
be, there are comparatively few which are to be
depended upon. If they bad their origin in true
spectral illusions, they are, at the same time,
grossly exaggerated, while other narratives are DOo
thing more than the dmce of rank impostors. As
specimens of this dubious kind of visions may be
adduced the popular narratives published in the
con1mencement of the 18th century, one of which
relates, how one Mr John Gairdner, minister near
to Elgin, "fell into a trance on the lOth of Ja-
nuary 1717, and lay as if dead, to the signt and
appearance of all spectators, for the space of two
days ; and being put in a coftin, and canied to his
parish, in ord~r to be buried in the church-yard,
and when going to put him in his grave, he was
heard to make a noise in his coffin, and it being
opened, he was found alive, to the·wonderful asto-
nishment of all there present ; being carried home
and put in a wann bed, he in a little time coming
to himself, related many strange and amazing
things which he had seen in the other world.,
116 APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPIRITS•.
Ano,.t.her choice production of this kind narrates,
" how Mr Richard Brightly, minister of thegospel
near Salcraig, at several times heard heavenly
music when at prayer, when many persons appear-
ed unto him in white raiment; also how, on the
9th of August, at night, as he was praying, he fell
into a trance, and saw the state of the damned in
everlasting torment, and that of the blessed in
glory ; and being then warned of his death by an
angel, how he afterwards ordered his coffin and
grave to be made, and invited his parishioners to
hear his last sermon, which he preached the Sun-
day following, having his coffin home before him,
and then declared his visions ;-and how he saw
Death riding in triumph on a pale horse,-of the
message he had given him to warn the inhabitants
of the wrath to come, and of his dying in the
pulpit when he had delivered the same; lastly, of
his burial, and of the harmonious music that was
·heard in the air during his interment :, the truth
of all which was certified by the signatures of Mr
William Parsons, two ministers, and three other
honest men. A third pamphlet describes what
" was revealed to William Rutherford, farmer in
the Merse, by an angel which appeared unto him
as he was praying in his com-yard, who opened
up to him strange visions unknown to the inhabi-
tants of the earth, with the dreadful wrath that is
coming on Britain, with an eclipse of the gospel.
APPARITIONS OF GOOD SPIRITS. 117
and the great death that shall befall many, .who
shall be suddenly snatched away before these
things come to pass ; aJso the glorious deliverance
the church will get after these sad times Are over ;
with the great plenty that will follow immediately
thereafter, with the conversion of the· heathen
nations, and with meal being sold for four shillings
a boll':-the truth of all this being attested by the
, minister of the parish, and four honest rpen who
were eye and ear-witnesses."*
• Preface to the Memoriala by the Rev. Mr Robert Law, edited
by Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe, Esq. Edinburgh, A. D. 1818.
118
CHAP. XIII.
GENERAL REl\fARKS ON THE APPARITIONS
CONNECTED WITH DEMONOLOGY.
'Tis said .thou hold•t convene with the things
Which are forbidden to the search of DW1 ;
That with the dwellers of the dark abodes,
The DUUlJ evil and unheavenly spirits
lVhich walk the valley of the shade of death,
Thou commuoeat. T,.agtdy of.Manfred.
OuR next object is to investigate the general
origin of that quality of apparitions, the vivid
mental images of which have been derived from
systems ofdemonology. It will, therefore, be worth
while to preface this inquiry, with a very brief
historical sketch of the superstitions, connected
with this subject of popular belief.
The name of demon was given by the Greeks
and Romans to certain spirits or genii, who appear-
ed to men either to do them service or injury.
The Platonists made a distinction between their
gods, or Dii Mqjorum Gmtium,-their demons,
or those beings which were not dissimilar in their
i
APPARITIONS OF DEMONOLOGY. 119
general character to the good and evil an~ls of
Christian belief,-and their heroes. 'l'he Jews
and early Christians restricted the appellation of
demons to beings of a malignant nature, or to
devils ; and it is to the early opinions entertained
by~ people, that the outlines of later systems
of demonology may be traced.
" The tradition of the Jews concerning evil
spirits or devils," says a learned writer on the
subject, " are various; some of them are founded
upon Scripture; some borrowed from the notions
of the pagans ; some are fables of their own in-
vention, and some are allegories." It would be a
disagreeable task to recount the peculiar notions
of this people on the origin of their demons ; suf-
fice it to say, that they were considered either as
the distinct progeny of Adam or of Eve, which
bad resulted from an improper intercourse with
supernatural beings, or of Cain. As this doctrine
was naturallyvery revolting to 80me fewof the early
Christians, they maintained that demons were the
souls of departed human being$, who were still
allowed to interfere in the affairs of the earth,
either to assist their friends or to persecute their
enemies. This doctrine, however, did not ulti-
mately prevail. . .
It wou.ld be a difficult task for any poe at the
pn:sent day, consideri.Qg o~ li~tle faiPiliarity with
the writings,of ancien~ .pneumatologis~s, tOattempt
UO APPARITIONS OF DEMONOLoGY.
glVlng, in a condensed form, the various opinions
entertained in an early period of the Christian era,
and during the middle ages, on the nature of the
demons of popular belief. Such an undertaking
was, however, attempted two centuries and a half
ago by Reginald Scot, and his chapter on the
subject is so comprehensive, and, at the same
time, so concise, as to render an abridgment of it
unnecessary. " I, for my own part," says this
writer, " do also thinke this argument about the
nature and substance of divels and spirits to be
difficult, as I am persuaded that no one author
hath in anie certaine or perfect sort hitherto
written thereof. In which respect I can neither
allow the ungodly and prophane sects and doc-
trines of the Sadduces and Peripateticks, who de-
nie that there are any divels or spirits at all ; nor
the fond and superstitious treatises of Plato, Pro-
clus, Plotinus, Porphyrie ; nor yet the vaine and
absurd opinions of Psellus, Nider, Sprenger, Cu-
manus, Bodin, · Michael, Andrreas, Janus Mat-
threus, Laurentius, Ananias, Iamblicus, &c. ; who,
with manie others, write so ridiculouslie in these
matters, as if they were babes fraied with bugges;
.some affirming that the soules of the dead be- .
come spirits, the good to be angels, the bad to
be divels; some that spirits or divels are onelie
in ibis life·; some, that they are men; some,
that they are women ; some, that divels are of
;,.,,,Coogle
· ~, .,. .-......_.. _
DEMONOLOGY. 121
such gender that they ·list themilelves ; some;
that they had no beginl.ling, nor shall have
ending, as the Manicheis mainteine ; some, that
they are mortall and die, as Plutarch affirmeth
of Pan; some, that they have no bodies at all,
but receive bodies according to their phantasiC$
and imaginations ; some, that their bodies are
given unto them ; some, that they make them-
selves. Some saie they are wind ; some, that
they are the breath of living creatures; some,
that one of them began another ; some, that they
were created of the least part of the masse, where-
of the earth was made ; and some, that they ar~
substances betweene God and man, and t~t some
of them are terrestrial, some celestial, some wa.
terie, some airie, some fierie, some starrie, and
some of each and every part of the elements, and
.that they know our thobghts, and carrie our good
.works and praiers to God, and returne his benefits
back unto us, and that they are to be worshipped;
wherein they meete and agree jumpe with the pa-
pists."-" Againe, some saie, that they are
meane between terrestrial and celestial bodies, com-
municating part of each nature; and that although
they be eternall, yet they are moved with aB'ec.
tions ; and as there are birds in the aire, fishes in
the water, and wormes in the earth, so in the
fourth element, which is the fier, is the habitation
.ofapirits and divels."-~' Some u ·they are QW!]ie
.,
112 APPARITIONS CONNECTED
imaginations in the mindof man. Tertulliap aaith
they are birds, and flie faster than anie fowle in
the aire. Some saie that divels are not, but when
they are sent ; and therefore are called evil angels.
Some thinke that the divel ~~endeth his angels
abrode, andhe himself maketh his continual! abode
in hell, his mansion place..,
It was not, however, until a much later period
ofChristianity, that.more decided doctrines relative
to the origin and nature of demons were estab-
lished. These tenets involved certain very knotty
·points :relative to the fall of those angels, who, for
·disobedience, had forfeited their high abode in
·heaven. The Gnostics, of early Christian times,
iu imitation of a elauUi.cation of the di1ferent or-
ders of.spiritsby Plato, had attempted a similar8l'-
rangement with respect to an hierarchy of angels,
the gradatiGn·of which stood as follows :-the first
and ·highest order was named seraphim ; the se-
cond cherubim; the third was the order of thrones;
the fourth, of dominions; the fifth, of virtues;
·she sixth, of powers; the seventh, of principali-
ties ; .the eighth, of archangels ; the niath, aDd
lo'West, of angels. · This fable was, in a pointed
manner; censuredby the apostles; yet still, strange
to aay. it almost outlived the pnenmatologists of
the middle ages. These sehoolmen, in reference
to the account that Lucifer rebelled against hea-
ven, aDd that Michael,. the archangel, warred
e,,,Google
----- - ~---~
WITH 'DBMONOLOGY. liS
against him~ long-agitated the momentous ques-
tion, What orders of.angels fell on this occasion P
At leugtb, it ·became the prevailing opinion that
Lucifer was of the order of seraphim. It was
also ·proved, after infinite research, that Agares,
Belial, and Barbatos,·each of them deposed angels
of great rank, had been of the order of virtues;
that Bileth, Focalor, and Phrenix, had been of
the order of thrones; that Gaap had been of the
orderof powers; and that Purson had been both of
the order ofvirtues and ofthrones, and Murmur, of
thrones and of ~Is. 'l'he pretensions of many
other noble devils were, likewise, canvassed, and,
'in an equally satisfactory manner, determined.
Afterwards, it became an object ofinquiry' to learn,
How many fallen angels had been engaged in the
contest. This was a que8tion of vital importance,
which gave rise to the most laborious research,
and to a vari~y of discordant opinions. It was
next agitated,-Where the battle was fought? in
the inferior heaven, in the ·highest region of the
air, .in the firmament, or in paradise P how long
it lasted? wbether, during one second, or mo.
ment of time, (punctum temporia) two, three,
or four seconds P These were queries of very diffi.
cult solution ; but the notion which ultimately
prevailed was, that the engagement was concluded '
in exactly three seconds from the date of its com-
mencement; and that while Lucifer, with anum.
lU ~PPA&Il!JONI· CONNECTED
ber of his followen, ·fell htto bell, the ·Jiest ··
were
left in the air to tempt man. A still newer·ques-
tion uose out of all these inft8tigatiolts,·Whether
more angels fell with Lucifer, 0r remained ·m
heaven with Michael·? LearDed clerks, howeYer;
-
were inclined to think, that the rebel chief had
been beaten by a superior force, and that, con·
aequently, devils of darkness were few« in num-
. ber than angels of light. ·
These discussions, which, during a number of
11uccessive centuries, interested the whole of Ch~
tendom, too frequently exercised the talents of the
most erudite characters in Europe. The last ob..
ject of demonologists was to collect, in1101De degree
of order, Lucifer's routed forces, and to re-orga.
·nize them under a decided form of subor~
or government. Hence; extensive district. were
given to certain chiefs that .fought under this
general. There was Zimimar, " ..the lordly mo-
narch of the north," as Sbakspeare styles him,•
who had his distinct province of devils ; there was
C'n»rson, the Xing of the South ; Amaymon, the
Xing of the ·East ; and Goap, the PriDce of the
• Tbla king ia invoked in the First Part ot Sbakapeare'a Play
;.r Henry the Sixth, at\er the foBowing JDaDner :- ·
"You speedy"beJpen that ue aubltitutee
Uocler tbe lcmllyiDOIIaiCh otthe D«ttl-
.A,_t"
;,.,,,Coogle
.-..,.- ~ -- ......
---
·: W'.lai:DSDNOLOOY. .. 111
W$. . Theee sovereipbad manynoble-spirits IV·
bQrdinate w them, wh01e various rankswere settled -
~ .aR the preciaeneas of heraldic distinotioo.;
there.. were..Devil Dukes, Devil Marquises; Devil
~ DeVil.Earls, DeVil Knights, Devil Presi.
dents, and Devil Pre1ates. The tU'Dled force UJllo
der L-.cifer seems to havecompriaed nearly twenty-
£0JII'·hundred legions, of ~ch each demon of rank
commanded a certain number.• Thus, .Beleth,
w..,_ Scot baa described as " a great king and
terrible,· riding on a pale horse, before whom go
tnuapete and all melodious music," commanded
eighty-five legions ; .Agares, the first duke under
the power of the East, commanded thirty-one le-
gioae ;- Leraie, a great IIW'quis, thirty legions;
. M.oau, a great earl and a president, thirty-six le-
gioos ; Furcas, a knight, twenty legions ; and,
after the &ame manner, the forces of the otherdevil
cllieftains were enumerated.t
Such Welle once the notions entertained regarding
the biatory_, uature, and ranks of devils. My next
.jeet will be to shew, that, with respect to their
straage- and·hideous forms, the apparitions con-
• To estimate the force of Lucifer, multiply 6666, the number
atlleriJI of which a legion COIIIiate, by 2.00.
t See Seot'a Dilcevery of WitciMraft, book 16, chap. 2 ; and
hia dileour~e of devils and apirita in the aame MM.
lt6 APPAJI.ITI0N8' OONNBO'l'ED
neeted with the popular beliefon this·subject, were
derived from the de.ariptive wri~ .of SU8h de-
monologieta, aa either maintained that demona poe.o
8ellled a decided corporealfarm, aad were mortal,
or, that like Milton's spirits, they could.--e.ay
sex, and take any shape they moee.
When, in the ·middle ages, conjuration waa re-
gularly praet.ised in Europe, devils.of raDk·were
supposed to appear under. decided foems, by wbieh
they were as well recognized, as the· head of any
ancient family would· be by his crest·and armorial
bearings. Along with their names.anddJanoten;
were registered such shapes as .they wcue aceua..
tomed.to adopt. A devil would appear, either libt
aa.angel seated in a fiery chanot; or riding..oa·aa
internal dragon, and~ in.hia,right baud•a
viper; or assuming a. lion's.head,. a:.gooae's ·feet,.
and a hare's tail; or putting OD• a• J'Piell's he.d;
and mounted on a strong wolf. Other fol'lll8 maie
use of· by demons were tboee of a: fiffte.warrior,
or of an old man riding·UJal a Cl'OIOdile Witb.a
hawk in his hand. A human: figure would aile
having the wings of a griiln ;.·oe sporting three
heads, two of them being like those of a toad
and of a cat ; or defended with huge teeth and
horns, and armed with a sword.; or diaplayiqg- a
dog's teeth, and a large raT.en~s head; or mouac.d
upon a pale horse, and exhihitiag a serpent's
tail ; or gloriously· crowned, and 'riding upon a
- -
------------....
Wim- DDIONO.LOOV• liT
dmmedar_y-;-or:
preaeatiugthe!aaeofra--
lidll.;:or be..
stridiog-a .bear; andgraspiug a viper. There were
alaoauch<&hapes aa-thoee of an·archer;.oroof.aaZeuo.
phil-. A! demonjaoa) lriD8 -.ruuld ride upon, a
pale home.;·.ar<~tmuld uaume aleopenl'a face and
griffin's wings,; or putonthe three heMla of a.bull;
ofa 1W1D; and a ram, with .a serpent's tailt.81Kithe
feetof a gdo8e; and, in this attire, sit·0111 a dragou,
and bear i1t hishand:a laace and a.fl.g; or.jnstead
of_being•thua employed, ·goad the flaak&; of, a ·fu-.
riota. be.;. and~ carry in hia.fist a. hwD; (i)fb,er
fmms "WWft ·those of: a goodly. lmightr;. or ofi.ODe
who bare·lance, ~ and.everuaceptlre~ ·o~ of
a soldier, either. ric:lin8-ca a b~ltone•.and sm.
letlDded with a~ flame of fire; or·wMiiag-on, hil
he.dta.duke'JI•.c:IWIIII; _.mounted oo a crocodile-;
or: _....jug a1lion'J1 faoo, and, ~- fiery ey~
spmriug·on.agigantic cbuger; or, with the same
frightful upect, appearing in all the pomp, of
family distinctiou, on a pale hone>; .or cUd from
head to. foot in crimson raimen1, :wearing on his
bold front a croWD, aDd ..Uying forth on a. red
&tiEd. Some iufernal duke would appeal' in hia
proper chamcter, quietly seated. on a.griffin ; alb-
other spirit of a similar rank would display the
tmee heads of a serpent, a man, and a cat;. he
would·aleo ·bestride a viper, and carry in his hand
a mbnmd; auother, of the same st.amp, would
appear like a duchess, encircled with a fiery
,,,. e' ,,Google
liS APPAitt'I'IONS CONNECTED
zon~, and mcrunted on a cimel; a fourth; would
wear the· aspect of a boy, and amuse himself ·on
the back of a twO-headed dragon. A few spirits,
however, would be content with the simple garbs of
• horse, a leopard, a lion, an unicorn, a Jiight-
raveit, a stork, a peacOck, or a dromedary ;' the
latter animal speaking iluently the Egyptian lan-
guage. Others would asaume the mote complex
forms of a lion or of a dog, with a griffin's wings
attached to e&ch of .their shoulders ; or oh bull
equally well-gifted; or, of the same animal, distin-
guished bythe Singular appendage of a man's face;
or of a crowclothed with human ftesh ; or of a hart
with a fiery t&.il. To certain other noble devils
were assigiled such·shapes as those of a' dragon
with three heads, one of ·these being huD1an;
of a wolf with a · serpent's tail, ·breathing forth
flames of fire; of a she-wolf, exhibiting the same
caudal appendage, tOgether with a griffin's wiilgs,
and ejecting from her mollth hideous matter. A
lion would appear, either with the head of. k
branded thief, or astride upon a ·blaek horse;
and playing with a viper, or adOrned with · the
tail of a snake, and grasping in his paws two hisS-
ing serpents.
These were the varied shapes assumed by devils.
of rank; it would, therefore, betray too mue}),.
an arist.oprati.cal spirit, tO omit noticing the fMms
which the lower orders of such beings displayed.
;,.,,,Coogle
.....-. --.--... ._
...-......
·.. W.ITB.DBMONOLOGY. Ui9
In.an _
anci~nt Latin poem, desc&ribiug the lament-
able~vision of adevoted .hermit, and supposed to
have been written by St Bernard in the year
liSS,• those spirits, who.had no more important
b1;1siness upon earth than to carry away condemned
souls, .were described .as .blacker than pitch : as
having teeth like lions, nails on their fingers like
those of the wild-boar, on their. forehead horns,
through the extremities of which, poison was emit-
ted, haying wide ears Bowing .with corruption, and
discharging serpents from their nostrils. The de-
vout writer of these verses has even accompanied
them with drawings, in which the addition of the
cloven-feet is not omitted. But this appendage,
as Sir Thomas Brown has learnedly proved, is a
mistake, which has arisen from the devil frequently
appearing to the Jews in. the shape of a rough and
hairy goat, this ~1 being the emblem of sin-
oft'eriags.t
It is worthy of fartheJ" remark, that .the form
• A tranaJatico ol this very curious work was printed for private
'distribution by William Yates, Esq. of Manchester, for a copy of
which I have bMa iDdebted to this pntleman.
. t Sir Thomaa BroJm, ..-bo thiDka dW this view may be coldinn.
ed by expoeitiona of holy scripture, mnarb, that " whereas it ie
lllid, thou shalt not offer unto devile ; (the original word is Seghui-
rim), that ie, rough and hairy goats, because in.that shape thedevil
~ often appeUed,'as ii expounded by the Rabins; as Tremellius
bath aJ.o expJUned ; and as the wC)rd Allcirnah, the GOd of Emath,
ie bf IOPle eo~vecL".
~---- ., __ _
UJO .APPARI'ltiONS CONNECTED
of the demons .dieseribed by St Bernard, diiera
little from that which.is.no less carefully pout'tray-
,ed by Reginald ScotS50years later, and, perhaps;
by the demmologists of the present day. u In
our childhood,"· say& he; " ·our mother's maid~
have so terrified uswith an ouglie diveH .hPing
hornes on his. head, fier ia his,mouth, md: a: taife
in his breech, eies like a bason., fangs like a ttog.,.
clawes like a beare, a.-skin·like a niger~ and a voioe.
roringlike a lion,-whereby we start and are.afraict
when we heare one cry bough..,
It is still a curious matter for speculation~
worth while noticing-Why, after the decay·ohhe
regular systems·of demonology·taught in the JBid,.
d.le ages, we should still attach the ~~&~De· hideous
form to the devil? The learned Mede has remark-
ed, " that the devil could not appear in human shape
while man was in his integrity ; because he was a
spirit fallen from his first glorious perfection ; ami,
therefore, must appear in such shape which might
argue his imperfection and abasement, which was
the shape of a beast ; otherwise,.no r'~n ~· be
given, why he should not rather ha,ve appeaal:.te
Eve in the shape of a wanan.than of a ·iellpent.
But since the faU of·man, the case is altered; now
we know he can take upon him the shape df mim.
He appears, it seem~, in the shape of ma~~s ~m~
perfectiou, eith~ fo,: age or defon;nity,,as ~~.:9
Q].d man (for so tMwitchea say); aud. pe~;bape it is
181
Df:lt altc;~gether; fa.1-, whida .i& vu1{9ll'ly aBirmed,
dJ4t the·devil, ~~~ h\UMil shape. has a},
wa-ys .a d~~y o£ a.eme WlCOuth member or
other, as th®gh he ~DOt ~t take upon·him
bmMn m.entirely, foJ: that. man himself is not
eatirely aad utterly falJen as he is." Grose, ~
INt witla iufinit#lJ 1esa serioumeu. than the truly
pious writer wllom l have just quoted, has ~
bed this ~ew, by ~. that " although the
derit canpar\ly tluaWrm;-himlel( into a variety of
shape&-, he e&DllOt cbaDge his cloven feet, which
will always mark him under every appearance."
&t enough of such. fancies, originating witJa
tlaoee, who; &a)l& Scot,. "are so carnally-minded,
t1tM a spirj.t.is no sooner spoken of, but immediat&o
lia they thinb.of a black man with. cloven feet, a
paire Q( ~ a. tai1e, clawes, and eiea as broad
aa a,~D. Butsurelie the deril were not so wise
- his ~ioll a& I take. him to be, it he would
tendjeD)&with.uch uglie llhapes, though he could
cJq it at his ~, •
. ~'l'bere are IIGIIle~eous individua!ll, however, to whom tbe
eiDIII1e oiJ.Jool caDnclt apply. Buter·balt neerded a - nlative
w- ··Wlite .......,.~to-.tba Westmiaater At.
llllf'Wy•IN»'*", ;wile, ~ .~ .wkbariajt ~e -t
6om the ardl-fieud, aeat.ed him with a cool COlltanpt, to which
bit 1ataDic majesty baa not often been IICCIUitomed. " The devil
in a Hpt nipt, atood by hia bQide ; the A..-or looked awhile
ftedler be' woilldl•y or: do·anydlial;' ... thea llld,·' lfthGil
llut notJmag to cle, I have; lllld 10 ta1'M...._.,co tleep.' "
-----=-====----~~-
·- -
-.
lSi APP:AltJTtONS CONNECTED
'" Absurd as all the8e de.eertpaons truly ate{rel~
tive to the extern~ iforlrts of demons, I have not
noticed them without· due d~liberation. During
the ·middle· ages; the· hideous ~res which diTers
degrees of demons were! supposed to assume, found
very prominent places among the grotesque ac~
tlires .and·carvings of religious·buildingS, od·even
diimgured the waillsOOts of the domestic halls of
our ancestors.• No wonder t~en, ·that, even at the
present day' they should continue to make an im-
pression upon weak intellects~ or upon the vulgar.
When fear has impressed their forms deeply on
the ·minds of the superstitious~ and when; ·from
morbilic eauses, ideas have become as ·vivid as
sensations; apparitions of hldt!Ous demons have
haunted the maniacal visionary' or have disturbed
the pillows of the languishing or of the dying.
'£he late Dr Ferriar took some· pains to trace
to their real source; the spectral 6gures, whicrb
have been attributed to demoniaeal Visits. Thus,
in his observations on the work of Remy, the
commissioner in Lorraine for the trial of witches,
he makes the following re~k :-" My edition of
this book was printed by Vincenti, lit Lyons, in
1595. It is entitled ~ria. T~ trials
I '
--------------~----------~-----
• I have traced maDY of the repreientati0111 of the demons ol
rank, described by Reginald Seot, on 'the panelled walla'of an old
- ·-
WITH :DBMONOLOQY. 183
appear to have begUn ill 1~. llr Remy seem& to
have felt great anxiety to aaoerta,in ~ euwt features
~ ~ss oi the d.emona, with whom many persons
supposed themselve& to be famifuuo. Yet nothing
transpUed in his e:xaminatioDS, which varied from
the usual igun:s exhibited by the gr088 sculptures
and paintings of the middle age. They are said
to 'be black..faced, with sunk but fiery eyes, their
mouths wide, and smelling of sulphur, their hands
hairy, with claws, their feet horny and cloven."
There is, also, in another part of Dr Ferriar's work,
the following account given of a case which paned
under his own personal observation :-" I bad oc-
casion," he observes, " to see a young married wo-
man, whose first indication of illness was a spectral
delusion. She told J,De that her apartment appear-
ed suddenly to be filled with devils, and that her
terror impelled her to quit the house with great
precipitation. When she was brought back, she
saw. the whole staircase filled by diabolical forms, '
and wu in agoni~ of fear for several days. After
this .first impression wore off, she heard a voice
tempting her to. self-destruction,. and prohibiting
her.from all exercises uf piety. Such \Y&S the ac-
count given by her.when sbe .was.senlible of the
delusion, yet_
unable to resist the horror of the im-
pression. When she was nearly recovered, I had
the curiosity to question her, as~ have interrogated
others, respecting the forms of the demons with
o;g ;,ed ,,Google
l"M .APPiAKlll'rONS· CJONIQCI'ED
whieh ·she·had been claiuied ; bot I never coulcl
obtai& any,other accotmt, than that tJ.ey were very
8Dlall,verymucb.deformed,aDClhad 001'08andclawiJ
like the imps of.ourterrific mbdern NJDaDces."' To
this illustration of the general origin of the figures
of.demoniacal illusione, .I might observe, that, in
the case.of a patient suiFering under dlltrlum- ,,.,.
tttma, which came under·my notice, the devils who
flitted around his bed, were ·described to me as
exactly like the forms, that he had recently seen
exhibited on the stage· in the popular drama of
Don GioTanni.
With the 'riew.of· illustrating other accounts of
apparitions, I shall now return to the ·doctrines
of demonology which were once taught. Al-
though the leading teneta of this occult science
may be traced to the Jews.and eariy Christians.
yet they were matured by our early communitta-
tion witil the Moors of Spain, who were the chief
philoeophers of the dark ages, and between whom
and-the natives of France and Italy a great·com-
munication subsisted. Toledo, Seville, and ~
manca beoame the great schools ·of magic., At
the latter city, prelections on the black art ·:wen;
from a oonsiltent regard to· the solemnity of,the
subject, delivered within .the walla of a nat· ad
~my. eavena. . The schoolmien·taught,. that all
koowledge and p<lll'er might be obtained n-
the a8liatance of the fallen aagels. They were
Wlt'H DllMC!M'fOU)OY. 138
skilled in·(be abatract.ecieJWJet, in the knowledge
of. precious stones,. in alchymy, in the various Ian.
guages of JQ8.Dlcind:and of the lower animal~ in the
belles lettres, in moral philosophy, pneumatology,
divinit.y,. magie; history, and prophecy; They
could control the .winds,. the waters, and the ia.
6uence of.the stars; they could raiae earthquakes;
induce diseases, or.cure.them, accompliah all vast
mechanical uudertakings, and release 10uls out al
pm-gatory. '!'hey could inBuence the passions of
the mind-prQCure the reconciliation of friend& 01:
foes-engender mutual discord-inducemania and
~Janeholy--gr direct the.farce and objecta of the
se-xual.Aif'ections.
Such was the object of demoaology, as taught
by its most orthodox profeaeors. Yet other sya-
t.tms of it weEe devised, which had.their origin m
causes attendin« the propagation of Chrittiaaity.
For it must have been a work of much time to era.
diQte the universal belief, that the Pagan deitie.,
who had become.so numerous as to fill every part
of the univene, were fabulous beiuge. Evea
many leuned men were induced to side with the
pcp.Uar opinion on the subject, and did nothing
JJQ'e than endeavOIU' to: reconcile.it with their ac-
bowkdgcd syabtm8 of demonology. 'They taught
that such heathen.~s of revereuee were fallen
.gel&inrletl8'le with. the prioee of :darkaeu, who;
until the· appearaPCe of our SaYiour, had been
186 APPARITIONS CONNECTED
allowed to range on the earth uncontrolled, and
to involve the world in spiritual darkness and de-
lusion. According ·to the various ranks which
these spirits held in the vast kingdom of Lucifer,
they ·were suft'ered, in their degraded atate, to
take up their abode in the air, in mountaUis, in
springs, or in seas. But, although the various at-
tributes 8.!1Cribed to the Greek and Roman deities,
were, by the eatly teachers of Christianity, con-
sidered in the more humble light of demoniacal
delusions, yet for many centuries they possessed
great influence over the minds of the vulgar. In
the reign .of Hadrian, Evreux in Normandy was
not converted to the Christian faith, until the
devil, who had caused the obstinacy of the inha--
bitants, was finally expelled from the Temple of
Diana. To this goddess, during the persecution
of Diocletian, oblations were rendered by the in-
habitants of London.· In the 5th century, the
worship of her ·existed at 'l'urin, and incurred
the rebuke of Saint Maximus. From the 9th to
the 15th century, several denunciations took place
of the.women, who in France and Germany tra-
velled over immense spaces of the earih, acknow-
ledging' Diana as their mistress and conductor.
In rebuitcfuig Saint Paul's cathedral in London,
remains of several of ·the animals used in her sa.-
crifices · were found ; fur slight traces of this
desenption of reverence subsisted so late ·ag the
,,,. e' ,,Go9gle
- ··-_
___.........~ -
WITH DEMONOLOGY. 187
reign of Edwaro the First, and of Mary~ Apollo,
also, in an early period of Christianity, had some
iriftuence at Thomey, now Westminster. About
the lith century, Venus formed the subject of a
monstrous apparition, which oou.ld only have been
credited from the influence which she was still
supposed to possess. A young man had thought-
lessly put his.ring around the marble finger of her
image. This was construed by the Cyprian god-
dess as a plighted token of marriage ; she ac-
cordingly paid a visit to her bridegroom's ~at
night, nor could he get rid of his bedfellow until
the spells of an exorcist had been invoked for his
relief. In the year 1536, just before the volcanic
eruption of ~ount Etna, a Spanish merchant,
while travelling in Sicily, saw the apparition of
Vulcan attended with twenty of his Cyclops, as
they were escaping from the effects which the
overheating of his furnace foreboded.•
To the ·superstitions of Greece and Rome we
are, a1so, indebted for those subordinate evil spirits
named genii, who, for many centuries, were the
subject ofnumerous spectral.illusions. A phantasm
of this kind appeared to Brutus in his tent, pro-
• Set aD in._ting dislertation on this llllbject in· Douce'• n.
luatrations of Shakspeue, voL i. p. 382. It ia alao noticed in the
Border Minstrelsy, voL ii. p. 197.
138 APPARI(l'IONS• CONNECTED
phesying that .
be should be again seen at Philippi.
Comelius, S.~ . h.d the first intimation of the
sudden febrile· a,ttack with which he was seized,
from an appantion who addressed him by hi&
name ; concluding,. therefore, that hi& death was-
at hand,.he prepared himself for the event, which
mak.pia7e1he ...w:iag euming. The:poet Oaa-.
sius Severua, a short time before he was slain by.
order of Augustus, saw, during the night, a· hu-..
man form of a gigantic size,-his skin· black, m..
beard squall~, and. his, hair dishevelled. The
phantasm waa,.pelili:apa, not. unlike the·evil· genius-
of Lord By.ron1sJ\lanfred :-.
" I see a dualt aDd awful figure rise
Like an infernal god from out the earth ;
His face wrapt in a mantle, and his form
Robed u witli angry clouds ; he stands between
Thyselfand me-but·I do fear him not."
The emperor Julian was struck with a. spectre
clad in rags, yet hearing in. his hands a hom of
plenty, which was covered with a linen cloth.
Thus emblematically attired, the spirit walked
mournfully past the hangings of the apostate's
tent.•
• Dio ofSyraeuee was visited by one of the furie& in penon,
whose appearance the soothsayers reganlecl aa indieatne of the
death which occ:urred ofhis son, as well as of hit OW'D ditlohttioD.
,,,. e' ,,Google
WITH DBMO:NOLOOY. 1St
We may now .t•ert to the superstitieus·J181'1'8.-
tives of the middJe ~ which· 8l'e replete with
theDOticesof•imilarmarvellous.apparitions. When
Bruno, the Arcbbiebop · of Wirtzburg, a short
period before his sudden .ct.da, wu sailing·with
Hemy III., he descried a terrific sptdft -IUDd.
iog upon a rock wbildt owrimog the foaming
waters, by whom he was hailed io the following
words:-" Ho ! Bishop, I am thy evil genius.
Go whither thou chooseet, thou·art·and shalt·be
mine. I am oot now sent fur thee, but soon thou
wilt see me again." To a spirit commiaeioned
upon a similar errand, the prophetic voice may·be
pmbably ~ which · wu said to have been
heud by-John Cameron, the Bishop of Glasgow;
immediately befOFe hi& decease. H~ was su~
moned by it, says- Spottiswood, " to appeB1' before
the tribunal of Christ, there·to allone·for his vio-
lence and·oppressions."
l shall not pursue the-subject of Genii much far.
ther. The notion of every man being attended by
an·evil genius was abandonedmuch·earlier than the
far more agreeable part of the same doctrine, which
taught, that, as an antidote· to this influence, each
individual Wa8 also accompariied by a benignant
spirit. " The ministrMion of angels," say$ a
writer in the Athenian oracle, " is certain, but
the manner ]IQtiJ is the knot to be untied." 'Twas
generally believed by the antient philosophers;
~f4 AP~OQ:NDC'lED
~~J>~~~~ Jlaingdoms 'hal· their.tu~lary ;guar-
d,Wns; ..but tJtat e'iery pel"80ll had hia particular
pPi~ .or good ·aoge1, to proteet ·alld'admoftieh
m.nh)' dreams, viiions, &c. We read that Origeti,
Hi~e, ,Plat»; and Empedoel.es in PltJta:rch,·wete
aliiQ of thia opinion ; and the Jew's themsel~
as.:appetm by that insi'Ance of Peter's deliverance
out of prison. They · believed it could' not be
Peter, but his angel. But for the partieWar·ati
ten~ance of bad angels, we believe it not ; and we
must deny it, till it finds better proof than ~
jectlU'es." . ' .
Such were the objects of &Uperstitious rever811le8
derived from the Pantheon of Greece and Bome4
the whole synod of which was supposed to coolie&
of demons, who were still actively bestirriDg them.
selves to delude mankind. But, in .the weat.of
Europe, a host of other demons, far more fol'lllid.l
able, were brought into play, who had their~
in Celtic, Teutonic, and even Eastern fables;·. and
as their existence, as well as influence, w• not ODly
by the early Christians, but even by the refonD.o
ers, boldly llS&erted, it was long before the-l'ites
to which they had been accustomed were totally
eradicated. Thus, in Orkney, for instance, it·wae
customary, even during the lastcentury,·for lo-.en
to.IDC:let within the pale of a large circle of stones,
which had been dedicated to the chief of the an-
cient Scandinavian deities. Through a ho~e in
•: ·r'WD'SrDBM8JiNJ1.0GY. . 1'4!1
onuhbe piBus, the hands of couttaetiug patties
,..ete joined,. aDd the lath .they plighted was
-.med the promiee el Odin,· to violate which wu
iafameas. But the iuflueuae of the Dii Mojoru
of the EGda was sJigltt and transient, in compari:.
11011 with that of the duergar or dwarfs, who
figure away in the ll&llle mythology, and whose
origin is thus recited. Odin and his brothers
killed the Giant Ymor, from whose wound ran
80 much blood, that all .the families of the earth
were drowned, except one that saved himself on
board a bark. These gods then made of the
pnt's bones, of his fiesh and his blood, the earth,
t}ae water, and the heavens. But in the body of
tl.e monster, eeveral worms had, in the course of
putniaction, been engendered, which, by order of
~ gods, partook of both human shape and rea-
lOlL Theee little beings possessed the most de-
lieate figures, and always dwelt in subterraneous
taverna or clefts of rocks. They were remark-
able for their riches, their activity, and their ma-
leroleace.• This is the origin of our modem
• S'n Walter Sc:ott baa supposed that this mythological aecount
«•iuerpr besrs a remote alluaion to real history, having an
·...._ '*-:e ~the oppreaed Fins, who, before the arrival of
~~ Uder the COIIIhact vi Odin, were tlae prior poeiaeors ct
~'ria. The followers or this btiiO saw • people, who lulew
'hOw tO 'Wc!rk.the mines or the counuy better than they did ; aD.,
~ &om a eupentitioua repzd, tranaformed them into
14! APPAIUTIQN& CONII'ECTED
f.aies, ·wllo, at tbe.presellt day,'ue described-a
a:people of mWl stature, gaily dressed in h~
:ments of· green.• They possess material shapes,
with the means, however, .of making themselVes
.invisible. They ·multiply their species.; ·they'have
a relish for the same kind of.food .that affords a
sustenaace to the human.race, and .When, for··aome
festal occasion, they would·regale themselves with
good beef or mutton, they employ elf411'0Ws to
bring down their victims. At the sallie time, they
delude the shepherds with the substitution of
..some vile substance, or illusory image. posseaaing
the.same form as that of the animal which·they
have taken away. .These sprites. are.·much -4-
dicted to music, and when they make·their exeur-
sions, a most exquisite band of music ilever;fails
to accompany ·them in their C:OU1'8e. They ~
.addicted to the abstraction of t'he human spedee,
in whose place they leave substitutes fur l~g
beiDgs, named ckangelinga, the unearthly origi.l·of
whom is known by their mortal imJ.ecility, or
.some wasting ditiease. When a liinb'is :aifected
with paralysis, a suspicion often arises that it has
spirits of an unfavoural)le charactef, dweJlin3 in the iD.tezi« .of
rocks, and surrounded with immense riehes.-Bordw M'.,.,..,,
vol, ii. p. 179.
• It~ said that, in Orkney, they were often aeen dad in com.
plete armour.-Brand'I De1crlption of Orkney, 8vo, Etli.Wrgh,
170l,p. 63.
WITH DEMOKOLOGY. us
been either touehed by these sprites, or that,
iDstead of the sound member, an insensible mass
of matter has been substituted in its place.
In England, the opinions originally entertained
relative to the duergar or dwarfs, have sustained
coDSiderable modifications, from the same attributes
being 8.88igned to them as to the Persian peria, an
-imagiBary race of intelligences, whose oftices of
benevolence were opposed to the spiteful interfe.
.-ence of evil spirits. Whence this confusion in the
proper Teutonic mythologyhas originated, isdoubt-
ful ; conjectures have been advanced, that it may
be traeed to the intercourse which the crusaders had
with the Saracens, and that from Palestine was
imported the corrupted name, derived from the
peris, a!fairiu;-forunder such a title the duergar
of .the Edda are now generally recognised. The
JD&levolent character of the dwarfs being thus sunk
in the opposite qualities of the peris, the fairies•
Blessing became, in England, proverbial : " Grant
that the sweet fairies may nightly put money in
·your shoes, and sweep your house clean." In
more general terms, the wish denoted, "Peace be
to this· house."*
• In Germany, probably for similar reasons, the dwarfs have
acquired the name of elve~--& word, observes Mr Douce, derived
from the Teutonic helfen, which etymologists have translated
jtware.
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
144 APPARITIONS CONNECTED
Fairies, for many centuries, have P-een*e ~1>j~ta
ofspectral impressions. In the case ofa poorwpwan
ofScotlaiid, Alison Pearson, who sulfered for .witch-
craft in the year 1586, they probably resultedfrom
some plethoric state of the system, which was fol~
lowed by paralysis. Yet, for these illusive images,
to which the popular superstitions of the times had
given rise, the ~r creature was indicted for ho}d;.
ing a communication with demons, under which
light fairies were then considered, and burnt at a
stake. During her illness, she was not unfrequent-
ly impressed with sleeping and waking vision~, in
which she held an intercourse with the queen of
Elfland and the good neighbours. Occasionally,
these capricious spirits would condescend to afford
her bodily relief; at other times, they would add
to the severity of her pains. In such trances
or dreams, she would observe her cousin, Mr
William Sympsoune of Stirling, who had ~n
conveyed away to the hills by the fairies, from
whom she received a salve that would cure every
disease, and of which the Archbishop of Saint An-
drews himself deigned to reap the benefit. It is
said in the indictment against her, .that " being in
Grange M·uir with some other folke, she, being
sick, lay downe ; and, when alone, there came a
man to her clad in green, who said to her, if she
would be faithful, he would do her good ; but she,
being feared, cried out; but naebodie came toher,
6
------·---
WITH DEMONOLOGY. 146
so she said, if he cam in God's n~e, and for the
gude of her saul, it was well; but he gaed away;
he appeared another tyme like a lustie man, and
many men and woinen with him ;-at seeing him
she signed herself, and prayed and past with them,
and saw them making merrie with pypes, and gude
cheir and wine :-She was carried with them, and
when she telled any of these things, she was sairlie
tormented by them ; and the first time she gaid
with them, she gat a sair straike frae one of them,
whieh took all the poustie [power] of her side frae
her, and left an ill-far'd mark on her side.
" She saw the gude neighbours make their sawes
L
salves] with panns and .fyres, and they gathered
the herbs before the sun was up, and they cam
verie fearful sometimes to her, and ilaide [scaredl
her very sair, which made her cry, andthreatened
they would use her worse than before; and, .at
last, they tuck away the power of her haile syde
frae her, which made her lye many weeks. Some-
times they would come and sitt by her, and pro-
mise that she should never want. if she would
be faithful, but if she would speak and tell of
them, they should murther her; Mr William
Sympsoune is with them who healed her, and telt
her all t~ ;-he is a young man, not six years
older than:herself, and he will appep.r to her be-
fore the eourt comes ;-he told her he was taken
away by them ; and he bidd her sign henelf that
G
146 APPARJ'l'IONI OONNE<l'l'ED
8he be not taken away, for the teind of them are
tane to hell everie yeare.,..
Another apparition of a similar kind may be
found in the pamphlet which W. pabliabed •· D.
1696, under the patronage and recommendation
of Dr Fowler, Bishop of Gloceltel',Telatitre to Alln
J eiferies, " who was fed for lix months by a small
sort of airy people, ca11ed fairies.., There ia f!ft1tY
reason to suppose, that this female was either af.
feeted with hysteria, or with that highly-excited
stateofnervous irritability, which, as I have shewn,
gives rise to ecstatic illusions. The. account of
her first fit is the only one which relates to the
present subject. In the year 1695, says her his-
torian, " she then being nineteen years of age,
and one day knitting in an arbour in the garden,
there came over the hedge to her (aa she afllrmed)
six persons, of a 8tll8.ll statttre, all cloathed in
green, which she called.foiriea : upon which she
was so frighted, that she fell into e. kind of con-
vulsive fit : but when we found her in this condi-
tion, we brought her into the house, and put her
to bed, and took great care of her. As soon as she
recovered out of the fit, she cries out, ' They· are
just gone out of the window; they are just golle
out of the window. Do you not see them ?' And
thus, in 'the height of her sickness, she would often
• .Miutrelay of the Scottiah Bolder, voL 241,. pase 216.
WrrB DEMONOLOGY. 1~
ay om, .d tlat wida eagerness; which exprea.·
&ica-,.e attn"buted to herdistemper, .upposiog her
~" Thia Dln'&tive of the girl seemed
highly intenstiDg &o her aupentitioua Deighboun,
aad a wu indueecl to relate far more wonderful
atoriea, upon whieh not the least dependence can
be plaeed, u the eympatby she excited eventually
iaduced her to become a rank impostor.•
But besicles fairies, or elves, which formed the
subject of many spectral illusions, a domestic
spirit deeerns t;o be mentioned, who was once held
ia no SJMil degree of reverence. In most north-
em oouatries of Europe, there were few families
tlult were without a shrewd and knavish sprite,
who, in return for the attention or neglect which
he experienced, was kaown to
" Sometimes labour in the quem,
Alld bootl- meb the b~ llou.ewife1:11am;
A.1Jd 801DeUmea 1Mb dae driak to ~ DO bum.,.
Mt Douce, in his Illustrations of Shakspeare,
• Beine ctini..!ng this subject o( fairies, I •haJJ slightly ado.
•ert·t0 Ole 1traDge blending which took p1aee or Greciail and Teu-
to,nic fables. " We find,,. says Sir Walter Scott, " the elves, oc:-
cuioDally arrayed in the costume of Greece and Bome, and the
~ queen and her attendanta, tranaf'onned into Diana and her
nympha, and investea with their attributes and appropriate inaig-
iua." Mereary was alto named by Haraenet, in the year 1002,
the Prince of the Fairies:
148 APPARITIONS CONRBCTED
.
has s~ewn, 'that the Samogite, a people·formedy.
inhabiting. the shores of the Baltic, .who ~
idolatrous so late as the 15th century' .had a deity:
named Putscet, whom they invoked to ·live with·
them, by placing in the barn, every night, a table
covered with bread, butter, cheese, and ale. ·If
these were taken away, good fortune W&$ to be ex..
pected ; but, if they were left; nothing but bad.· ·
luck. This spirit is the same as the goblin-groom,
Puck, or Robin Good-fellow of the English, wh~
face .and hands were either of a russet or green
colour, who was attired in a suit of leather, and
armed with a flail. For a much lesser fee than was
originally given him, he would assist in thresh~
churning, grinding malt or mustard, and sweeping
the house at midnight.• A similar tall " lubbar-
fiend," habited in a brown garb, was known in Scot-
land. Upon the condition ofa little wort being laid
by for him, or the occasional sprinkling, upon a sa-
crificial stone, of a small quantity of milk, he would
ensure the success ofmany domestic operations. Ac-
cording to Olaus Magnus, the northern nations re-
gar<J.ed domestic spirits of this description .as ~e
• "He would chafe exceeclingly," says Scot, "if the maid or
good-wife of the bouse, having compaasion of his nakedness, laid
anie clothes for him, beesides his messe of white bread and millte,
which was his standing fee. For in that ease he laith ; What
' have we here ? Hemton bamten, h81't will I De\'tf ~ a.4 110r
. '
•
~&... -
'' Wl'J.!B DDIONOLOG\:", · U9
sOUls!bf men who had ginn themselves up.during
life:~illicit pleuures,and were doomed, as a punish-
ntent, to wander about the earth, fo.r a cert&in.time,
mthe peculiar shape which they assumed, and tO
bebound io mortals in a sort of servitude. It is natu-
Ml, therefore, to expect, that these familiar spirits
would be the subject of many apparitions, of whlch
afew relatimis are given in·Martin's Account of the
Second Sight in Scotland. " A spmt," says this
writer, ''called Browny, was frequently seen in all
the most considerable families in the isles and north
ofScotland, in the shape of a tall man ; but witli~
in theSe twenty or thirty years, he is seen but
rarely." .
· It is useless to pursue this subject much farther.
In the cOUrse of a few centuries, the realms of .su-
perstition were, in the.west of Europe, increased to
an almost immeasureable extent. The. conse-
quence was, that the air, the rocks, the seas, the
rivers, nay every lake, pool, brook, or spring, were
so filled with spirits, both good and evil, that of
eacli' province it might be said, in the words of the
Roman satirist, " Nostra regio tam plena est nu-
mimous, ut facilius possis deum quam hominem
inverure." Hence the modification which took
place of systems of demonology, so as to admit·of
the classification of all descriptions of devils, whe-
ther·they had been derived from Grecian, Roman,
Teutonie, Celtic, or Eastern systems of mythology.
150 APP.ABJTIONS CONNBCTED
" Our schoolmen, and other divines~" says Bu.r14w,
in hia Anatomy ot Melancholy, "makenine kinds
of W divels,. as Dionyaius hath of apgela. In the
jiral rank, are those false gods of the Gentiles,
which were adored heretofor in several. idols, and
gave oracles at Delphos and elsewhere,. whOle
prince ia Belzebub. The .tecond rtmk is of lias
and equivocaters, as Apollo, Pythius, and the
like. The third are those vessels of anger, in"feot-
ers of all mischief, as that of Theutus ia Pla&o..
Esay ealls them vessels of fury ; their priooe is
Belial. The,fou1·1lare malicious, revengeful deW.,,
and their prince is Asmodeus. The.flftk kind are
coseners, such as belong to magicians andwddJas;
their princeisSatan. The Mtlare thole aerialdi-vels
that corrupt the air, and cause pl~ thunden;
fires, &c. spoken of in the Apocalypa and Paule;
the Ephesians name them the princes of the aire:
Meresin is their prince. The lt!/OeAIA is a. destroy-
er, captaine of the furies, causing wars,. tum.uha,
combustions, uproares, mentionedin the Apocalype,
and called Abaddon. The ~ is that AAcmling
or calumniating divel, whom the Greek& call
~w,, that drives us to despaire. The fliMM
are those tempters in several kindes; and thei&-
prince is Mammon."
But this arrangement was not comprehean
enough; for, as, Burton adds, " no p1.M:ewas-void,
butallfullofspirits, ()evils~ orodter~itanta, not
,,,, e' ,,Google
W1'1'JI IJDI'OJJOLOGY. 151
so mucll a an llair&.breadtla was empty in heavea,
eart.bt ~ waters,. above or under the eartb,-the
earth was not so full of flies msummet aa it wu
at all tinles of mvWble devils." PneumatoJ:(;gists,
therefore, made two grand distinctious of demoiUJ;
there were eele&ti&l deiDCIIIS, who inhabited the re.
gioBs higher than the moon;. while thoee of an in-
ferior rank, as the ~ or Lemures, were either
nearer tc> the earth,. or gnnelled OD the ground.
. PeellliS, bowt!wr1 " a great obserrer of the nature
ofdeWs," seemstohfle tbougbt, that such a classi-
ficatioB ~ed ali d&iDction between good and
evil spiritt; ~ theief«e, denied that thelatter eTer
ucencled the regions aboYe the moon, and contend-
ing for tbie prilleiple, tounded a syetem of demo-
aology, whieh bad for i&s basis tb.e natural hiatory
aad hebitatious oC all demons. He aamed biJ
first clM&.fier!tde'cila. They wanderedinthe region
near tlae- moo~~t Lnt were restrained from entering
into that luminary ; they displayed their power in
bLuring star&, ift fire-drakes, in COUnterfeit snna and
moons, and in the CW1'pO santo, or meteoric :tights,
which, in vessels at sea, Hit from mast to Dlast, and
forebode foul weather. It was supposed that these
demons occasionally resided in the furnaces of
Hecla, Et~ or Vesuvius.-The second class con-
sisted of aerW devila. They inhabited the atmoS:.
phere, cawliug tempests, thunder. and lightning ;
rending asunder oaks, firing steeples and houaes,
,,,, e' ,,Google
15! APPARITIONS CONNECTED
smiting men and beasts, showering down, from
. the skies, stones,• wool, and even frogs; counter-
feiting in the clouds· the battles of armies, raising
whirlwinds, fires, and corrupting the air, so as to in-
duce plagues.-The third class were terreatriol
devila; such as lares, genii, fauns, satyrs, wood-
nymphs, foliots, Robin Good-fellows, or trulJi...-
The fourth class were~ devila; as the vari-
ous descriptions ofwater-nymphs, of mermen, or of
merwomen.-The fifth were 8'Uhterranean devila,
better known by the name of dremones metallici,
.metal men, Getuli or Cobali. They preserved tre&-
sure in·the earth, and prevented it from being sud-
denly revealed; they were also the cause ofhomble
earthquakes.-Psellus's sixth class of devils were
named lucifogi. They delighted in darkness; they
entered into the bowels of men, and tormented those
whom they possessed with phrensy and the fallen
sickness. By this power they were distinguished
from earthy and aerial devils, who could only enter
into the human mind, which they either deceived or
provoked with unlawful affections.
Nor were speculations wanting with regard to
the common nature of these demons. Psellus con-
• PBellus speaks with great contempt of this petty instance ol
malevolence to the human race. " Stones ere thrown do'll'll from
the air," be remarks, " which do no harm, the devila having little
strength, IIIII being mere IICileerowa."-8o muCh tor the origin ol
meteoric atOnes.
WITH D:t:MONOJA)GY. ,153
ceived that their bodies did not consist merely of
one ·element, although he was f~r· from denying
that 'this might not have been the case before the
fall of Lucifer. It was his opinion, that devils pos-
s'essed corporeal frames capable of sensation ; that
tliey could both feel and be felt ; that they could
injure and be hurt; that they lamented when they
were beaten, and that if stuck into the fire, they
even left behind them ashes,-a fa.Ct which was de-
monstrated in a very sati~factory experiment made
by some philosopher upon the borders of.Italy ;-
that they ~ere noUrished with food peculiar to them-
selves, not receiving the aliment through the gul-
let, but absorbing it from the exterior surface of
their bodies, after the manner of a spunge ; that
they did not hurt cattle from malevolence, but from
mere love of the natural and temperate heat and
moisture of these animals ; that· they disliked the
heat of the sun, because it dried too fast ; and,
lastly, that they attained a great age. Thus, Cardan
had a fiend bound to him twenty-eight years, who
was forty-two years old, and yet considered very
young. He was informed, from this very authen-
tic source of intelligence, that devils lived from
two to three hundred years, and that their souls
died with their bodies. This very philosophical
statement was, nevertheless, combated by other
oheervers. " Manie," says Scot, "affirmed that
spirits were of aier, because they have been cut in
G2
16~ DBIIONOLOGY.
sunder and closed presentlie spiRe, and also be-
cause they vanished awaie so slolddenlie.."
But a truce to these absurdities, of which I be-
gin to suspect that my readeB may be ao lesrr
wearied than myself. Still~ the inquiry waa. Deeea.
sary for my purpose, as. I trust it will now be ap-
parent, that moat of the fantastil:al images, which
have long formed the subject. of the spectral illu-
sions of superstition,. have kept pace, either with
Pagan systems of mythology, with Christian sy&-
tems of demonology, or with the no less supersti-
tious views eatertain~ relative t.G the hierarchy
of benignant genii. Yet, in the impreuive lan-
guage of Lord Byron,
------·"What are they i'
Cnuiofttl orthe mind i' The mind caD make
Substance, aud people plaDetiJ ot.. owu,
With beislge brighter than have been, IID4 give
A breath to forme which can outlive all 8esh."
.w
CHAP. XIV.
611NBJUlr JIB.JIAU8 01'1' THE APPAaiTIONi 01'
DRAJL'l'ED SPIB.ITS.
" Oh01t1 iy on .Jeuu and ride on winda," laid Connal'a 'fOiee of
wi8dom. " Thq nat topther in their caTea, aDd talk o( mortal
men."'-Poem ofP'iftKGL
IT is the moet reaaoaable of expectMioDJ, that the
various morbific eauees, which u-e capable of im.
parting w the recoUected image. of the mind the
vividness of actual impreteiona, ahould have lor
their subject the forma of deceased as well as of liv-
ing individual&. ID the IWT&.tive, fOI' iwltaace, of
Nicolai, given in thefirst chapter of thie work,. the
following remarkable passage oceurs :-" There
appeared lll8ll.J atlaer plaanu.aa, 8fOidetDiea mpre-
IIBIItiDg acqaamtanoea. Thole whom I kaew wea
- · - both of 1i'riDg md cJec:e.oo peiiOIIi,
tlloagh the IUIIIIIMw .... later ,. compantiw-
ly alllliiL" Thill iDitiDce of ~ fi'OChad.by
di- j}b111Cfilte5 also dae .."---.1 _~...... <11
, ~.... ~
~ • the Dlilty 8ld cloady appeMaee wlaieb
thqIIIBlL P01 theeaD~ writft nlbrlr.l of,.,.,
\
156 APPARITIONS OF DEPARTED SPIRITS.
tain of the phantasms which he saw, that they ap-
peared to him in their natural size, and as distinct
as if alive ; though the colours seemed aomewhal
·paler than in real nature." It is evident, that this
impression must have resulted from the spectral
idea of colour not quite equalling in intensity the
vividness of an immediate sensation ; indeed, Ni-
colai has related of certain other forms, that " soon
afterwards their colour began to fade, and at seven
o'clock they were entirely white." The mode in
which ghosts are said to disappear, is also well
displayed in the same case. The phantoms beheld
by this philosopher, would suddenly withdraw or
vanish. On other occasions, they would grow by
degrees more ob8cU:re;-they would dissolve in the
air ; ·nay, sometimes, fragments of them would
continue visible a considerable time:
" The earth hath bubbles, as the water bas,
And these are of them:-Whither are they vanieh'd P-
Into the air; and what eeem'd corporal
Ae breath into the wind."
From another writer, I have quoted an account
of spectral forms nearli similar: "they appeared
before me,, it is said, " one at a time, verj sudden-
ly, ·yet not so much so, but 'that a aecond of time
might be employed in the emergence of each, as if
through a cloud or mist, to ·its .perfect clearoe&S.
In· this state each form oontioued five or six se-
conds; and then v8niahed; by becoming gradually
4
- - ~_
.......... - ---- --
APPARITIONS OF DBP.AltTBD SPIRITS. 16
fainter during about two seconds, till nothing was
teft but a dark and pale mist, in which, almost im-
mediately afterwards, appeared another face. All
these faces were, in the highest degree, interesting
to me, for beauty of form, and the variety of eX-
pression they manifested or every great and amiable
emotion of the human mind."* How well do these
circumstances incidental to morbid illusions agree
with the description of a Highland bard. " Who
comes from the place of the dead,-that form with
the robe of snow ; white arms and dark-brown
hair? It is the daughter of the chief of the people;
she that lately fell ! Come let us view thee, 0
maid ! thou that hast been the delight of heroes !
The blast drives the phantom away; white, with-
out form, it ascends the hill."f
It must be confessed, that the popular be1ief of
departed spirits occasionally holding a communica-
tion with the human race, is replete with matter of
curious speculation. Some Christian divines, with
every just reason, acknowledge no authentic source
whence the impression of a future state could ever
have been communicated to .man, but from the
Jewish prophets or frQm our Saviour himself. Yet
it is certain, that a belief in an existence after
death has, from time immemorial, prevailed in coun-
• See page 61.
t See Note to Croma, in Maephereon'• Oaaiau, voL ii.
lal u•.A&11'19Jf8: or :D.BP.UTD SPDUn..
triiB,. to which the knowlqe of the BOJP811le9!1ll
~d have.exteaded, as amoag certain tribes of.
Americs.. Can then this~ have.heeDintuitively
~? Oris itall extravagantsupposition, sb&t
thebeliefmighthaveoftenariselllrom those speetraJ
illusion~,. to which lDt!n in every age, from the oo-
caaional inftueBce of mor~c eatllle8, ·must have
been sttbject? And what would be the natural self..
persuasion, if a savage S&)Y before him the appari-
tion of a departed friend or aequaintance, endowed
with the semblance of life, with motion, and with
signs of mental intelligence, perhaps even holding
a cQilverse with him? Assuredly, the conTiction
. would scarcely fail to arise of an existence alter
death. The pages of history attest this faet :
" If'ancestry can be in aught believ'd,
Descending spirits have convera'd with man,
And told him eecreta o' the lforld unknown."
But if this opiDion of a life hereafter, bad ever
amoug heathen nations such an origin, it must ae-
ceasarily be imbued with the groseeat absurdities,
incidental to so fal~s a source of intelligence.
Yet still tlte mind bas clung to such extravagan-
cies widt a-ridity; "for,."' as Sir Thomas Brown
bas reiD81"ked, " it is the heaviest stoDe that JDe..
lancholy can throw at a man, to tell him he is at
the end of his nature; or that there is no future
state to come, unto which this seem• progressively
-~-
---·-- ~--_____, ___
APPDI'l'lotiB OF·DIP~ BPD.lft. W
&811 othenriae made iD vain." It ._ nmaiaed,
tbenfore.,. u the light oC revelation aloae,. to- im-
part too this belief the mrrai,_y ani ooofirmat.ion
of diviDe truth, and to oonnect it with a l'Mi.U
.,aem«rewardsad punisJuuate.
PIOBI the foregoing remarks, we need nol be
aurprised, that a convictioJ;l ol the OCCIIIieoat ap-
pearaee of gbolts or departed spirits, ~bonk~,
from tbe remotest antiquity, :ban been a popular
creed, not eonfuled to any distiDct tribe or race of
people. I:D Europe,. it was the opinion of the
Gfteks aad Bomans, that,. alter the dissolution of
the bOdy, every man was poss med of three dift'er.
ent kinds of ghosts, which were disbnguiahed by
the names of .Manes, ~ and Umbra. These
were disposed of after the following manner: the
Manes descended into the infernal regions, the
Auim& ascended to the skies, aad the Umbra ho.
vered about the tomb, as being unwilling to quit its
CODDexionwith the body. Dido, for instaace, when
about to die, threateDs to haunt&neas with her um-
bra; at the same time, she expeeta that the tidiDgs
of his punishment will rejoin her mmau below.•,
• For the DOtioD of tJDa threefold 110111, - the ~- attri-
buted to Ovid;
Bia duo aunt bomiili: MANEs, C.&u.o, St>nuTtrs, UHBB..&:
Quatuor iata loci bia duo IIUICipiunt,
Terra tegit c.&B.xnr, twnulam cimlm~olat UXBU,
Olcua lulbet MAn~ SI'BIUI aatl& petit.
160 APPARITIONS OF DEPARTED SPI.RITS.
· The opinions regarding gho8ts whiCh were ea-
terta!Daed during dae Christian era, bm- inore partt.;. ·
caWiy during tbe middle ages, are very multifllli.. .
ous;yetthese, with the authoritiesanilex«<d tO thea,' ·
have been most industriously collected by ·~ - .
Scot. His researches are. replete with amusemeat
and instruction. " And, first,, says he, "you shall
understand, that they hold, that all the soales m
huven may come downe and appeare to us wheo
they list, and 8ssum.e anie bodie saving their owoe:
otherwise (saie they) such soules should not be
perfectlie happie. They saie that you· may know
the good soules from the bad verie easilie. For a
damned soule hath a very heavie and sowre looke; ·
but a saint's soule hath a ·cheerfull and a merrie
countenance: these also are white and shining, the
other cole black. And these damned soides alio
may come up out ofhell at their pleasure, altboagh
Abraham made Dives beleeve the contrarie. They
aftlrme, that damned soules walke oftenest : next
unto them, the soules of purgatorie ; and most
seldome the soules of saints. Also they saie, that
in the old lawe soules did appeare seldome ; and
alter doomesdaie they shall never be seene more :
in the time of grace they shall be most frequent.
The walking of these souls (saith Michael An.
dneas) is a most excellent argument for the proofe
of purgatorie; for (saith he) those soules have
testified that which the popes have af&rmed iathat
APPARITIONS OF DEPARTED SPIRITS. 161
behalfe ; to wit, that there is not onelie such a
p1lce of punishment, but that they are releued
frem thence by masses, and such other· satisfac-
torie works ; whereby the goodne$ of the masee is
alao ratified and confirmed.
" These heavehlie or purgatorie aoules (saie
they) appeare most commonlie to them that are
borne upon Ember daies : because we are in best
state at that time to praie for the one, and. to
keepe companie with the other. Also, they saie,
that ·soules appeare oftenest by night; because
men may then be at best leasure, and most quiet.
Also, they -never appeare to the whole multitude,
aeldome to a few, and most commonlie to one
alone : for so one may tell a lie without control-
ment. Also, they are oftenest seene by them that
are readie to. die: as Trasilla saw Pope Frelix ;
Ursine, Peter and Paule; Galla Romana, S.
Peter; and as Musa the maid sawe our Ladie:
which are the most certaine appearances, credited
and allowed in the church of Rome: also, they
may be seene of some, and of some other in that
presence not seene at all, as Ursine sawe Peter
and Paule, and yet manie at that instant being
present could not see anie such sight, but thought
it a lie, as I do. Michael Aridrreas confesseth,
that papists see more visions than protestants : he
saith also, that a good soule can take none other
shape than of a man ; manie a damned soule may
I6te ~PPARITIONS OF DEPAILTED SPIRITS.
and dooth take the shape of a blacke moore,. or of a
beaate, or ofa serpent, or speciallie of an heretike."
Such is the account which Scot has given re-
garding the Pbpish opinion of departed spirits. In
another part of his work, be triumphantly asks,
" Where are the soules that ~warmed in time
past? Where are the spirits? Who heareth their
ROises? Who seeth their visions? Whdre are the
soules that made such mone for trentals, where-
by to be eased of their pains in purgatorie? Are
they all gone into ltalie, becausemasses are grtnme
deere here in England?-The whole course may
be perceived to be a false practise, and a counter-
feit vision, or rather a lewd invention. For iD
heavm men's soules remaine not in sotow and
eare; neither st11die they there how to eompuae
and set a worshipfull burial here in earth. If
they did, they would not have foreslowed it so
long. Now, therefore, let us not suft'er oursel'Yft
m be abused anie longer, either with conjuring
priests, or melancholicall witches ; but be thank-
full to God that hath delivered us from such
bliodnes and error."• This is the congratulation
of a true protestant at an early period of the Re-
formation ; and it is certain, that with the disbelief
of that future state of purgatory, taught by the
• Scot's Diacimrie ol Witehcraft, 'llook 16, chap. 38; allo
Dlteoane on Dmla aDd Spirits, chap. 28.
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
AJP!PAJPTJOIOl 01' DB1'.4JlTJO) &PU.Jft. 1M
Bonrilh almJch, the eoa;mnmication of the liviug
with the cte.d beeame much leas frequent. S&ill,
however,. eome beliefof the kind preniled,. though
lela tinctured with snpent.itioa. Anauthor, sty.lius
himself Theopbilua U..danus, who, half a eeo-
tury ago, wrote on the secood-sigbt of ScotJ..d,
athes the tenna of irreligiou.t to thoee who ehoWd
entertain a-doubt on the reality of appariticma of
departed eoob. " Such ghostly viaita.Dte," he
gravely ai6.rms, " are DOt employed on an errand
af & frivolous concern to lead us iuto error,. but
are employed as eo many heralds by the great
Creator, for the more ample demomtration of his
power, to proclaim tidings for our iDatruction;
~ as we are pruoe to detpood. in :relipus mat..
ters, to oaolirm our faith of the exiatence of epiri&a,
(tbe fouudation of all religioaah ad the dignitJ
of human.nature." With due defereDce, howevel',.
to this auonymoua writer, whom I should ICU'Cely
u-.e noticed, ifhe had not echoed in this auertion
an opiDion which waa lcmg popular, I ahall ad.Tert
to the opposite aeDtiments apreaed on the sub.
ject by a far more acute, though less serious, au-
thor. The notion, for instance, of the soleum
character of gh~ and that they are never esp..
ployed on frivolous errands, isbut too succeuftilly
ridiculed by Grose. " In moat of the relations of
F.oets," sa.ys this pleasant writer,. ~' they are
18ppoeed to be mere aerial 00. without aub-.
staDce, and that they can pasa th1'ougb walls aDd
JM AfPltRF.l'IONS'.OF.1JBP.MI-'18D :DilWI\¥~,
otMt( S())id bodieaat·.pleasure. ·,·The uaual..time,~
wbith gliosta makes their appeuance'.ia .~*
and Mildom hebe it is dark;· though so~e. ~
oious spirits have been said to appear even by:·day..
light. Ghosts commonly appear in the same.dretis
they usually wore when living; though .they ar~
sometimes cloathed all in white; but that-
is chiefly
the chul'Ch-yard ghosts, who have no. paiticulu
businesS, but seem to appear pro lxmo publiro, _
ol
to scare drunken rustics from tumbling over· their
graves. I cannot learn that ghosts aarry taper.
in their hands, as they are sometimes depicted,
though the room in which they appear, if withotit
fire or candle, is frequently said to be as light ._
day. Dragging chains is not the fashion of EDg-
lish ghosts ; chains and black vestments ~
chiefly the accoutrementS of foreign spectres, seen
in arbitrary governments: dead or alive, English
spirits are free. If, during the time of an apparo-
ition, there is a lighted candle in the room, it will
bum extremely blue: this .is so universally ac-
knowledged, that many eminent philosophers have
busied themselves in accounting for it, without.
f!IVet doubting the truth of the· fact. Dogs ,toO
have the faeulty of seeing spirits.". ' . r .;
·.. There are ·ee•eral other minute particulan,re-
• ·.. Aa·i ui in the Paittrilast Dight counting my apo;,ai;"'i&;ra
th~ Butler, i~ the c:ofut!dy·efthe Drummer, "tlreeaadlc!......t
tiuint liiue, and the a~y'd bitdllool'cl•itabe ...••ethht..
Afi'.ABITIOlO 01' DliY.UT.ED'SJliBlftJ, 181
~ ghosta given bythis author,-fol" ·the inser-
tionof.Which I have not room : yet it weuld beiaex,.
eU.ble.to omit nOticmg the aa:ount whieh he ....
'*bjoined, of the awfully momentoaaen:anda upon
which spirits are sent, " It is eomewbat remark-
Ole," he adds, "that ghosts do not go about
their business like the persons of this world. In
eases of murder, a ghost, instead of going to
the next justice of the peace, a~d laying its in-
rormation, or to the nearest relation of the person
murdered, appean to BOBle poor labourer who
knows none of the parties; draws the curtain
oC some decrepit nurse, or alms-woman ; or hovers
about the place where his body is deposited. The
same circuitous mode is pursued with respect· to
redressing injured orphans or widows; when it
seems, as if the shortest and most certain way
would be, to go to the person guilty of the injus-
tiCe, and haunt him contmually till he be terrified
into a restitution. Nor are the pointing out lost
writings generally managed in a more summary
way ; the ghost commonly applying to a third
-
person, ignorant of the whole affair, and a stran-
-ger to all concerned. But it is presumptuous to
scrutinize far into these matters : ghosts have U&-
doubtedly farms and customs peculiar to them-
selves."*
l .
:; ~ l ~ iD a recent publication of great merit, the incida~ta .C!f
a pe.wto:q,told by Clarendon, relative to the Duke ofBucking-
·--....--!1!1~111:·-
181 APPA.BITlONI OF DBP.UTZD 1PmJ2'&
The .-iew which Gl'OIIe h8a ta~en of the c:barac-
termmoet mries about departed spirits, is pretty
correct, although I have certainly read of some
apirits whose errands to the earth have beeo muc*
more direct. One ghost, for instanee, has ter-
rified a man into the restitution of lands, which
had bee& bequeathed to the poor of a village. A
bam, which am COIJIJilented oo ia the following lllallller :-" Tbia
noble historian interrupts his nanative with a long story abont the
ghost otSir George Vnliers, the Duke's lather, baoring given a
wat'Jllag of me eon's fate DO seJdomer tJaan three timet. Lib
~-in geaal, tbia wu a yery eilly oae ; tea; iDNid r4
piDs directly to hie 11011, (waa the apiDt under the aame ay.o.
pbytiah awe with the living followers of the Duke P) the phantom
carried its erraJid to an ofticet' of the wardrobe, whom in life it had
paid attention to at school, but whose situation was too meu to
warrant his going direc:tly with the important intell.igenee to the
favourite. The man Beg]eeted the waning till the thircl time, 111111
tben be went to agentleman to wbum be was well lmon.Sir RaJ;h
Freeman, oae oftbe mastas ofthe reqaests, who had married a lluJy
nearly allied to the Duke, and prevailed with him to apply to bi8
G~ to grant the officer of the wardrobe an opportunity of SJiellk•
ing with him privately on a subject of the utmeet COJllequeDCe
to his Grace. The man gave au!icient information, which he W
got from the sheet, leladve to Buckingbam'a private alliin; 10
..a.ty tile Dulle that be wu DO illlpoet.or, ani the DUe waa
.-..eel t.o be verr melMdloly aftenranla. But to what Ill tbil
warning tended, except to create UDeuineu at 10111e impendillg
cal~ty, it Ia impollible to conceive, alnee the hint ...... too dark
and mysterious to enable him to provide apinat the danjer ?"-
Hiltory oJ tk Britilh Empire, bv George Brodie, Elf. voL ii.
p. 209.
APP.UUTIONS OF DBPAJLTBD 8PIIti'IS. 16'7
f¥!COIId•pirit has adopted the same planfor I"C!!OVel'-
iag propertyof which a nephew had been wronged;
.but a third, has haunted a house for no other
purpose than to kick up a row in it-to knock
about chairs, tables, or other furniture. Glan'fille
relates a story, of the date of 168!!, in which a
man.· upon the alleged information of a female
spirit, who came by her death foully, led the
' officers of justice to' the pit where a mangled
corpse was concealed, chat'ged two individuals with
her murder; and, upon the strength of this ficti-
tious story, the poor fellows were condemned and
executed, although they solemnly persevered to
the last in maintaining their innocence. It is but
too ftident, in this ease, by whom the atrocious
deed had been committed.
Other apparitions of this kind may ~ consider-
ed as the illusions of well-known diseases. Thus,
there can be no difficulty in considering the fol-
lowing apparition, given on the authority of Au-
bery and Tumer, u ha'ring had its origin in the ...
Deliriam Tremens of drunkenness. " Mr Cas&io
Burroughs," says the narrator of this very choice,
yet, I believe, authentic stol'y, " was one of the
most beautiful men in England, and very valiant,
but very proud and blood-thirsty. There was
t1aen in Lcmdon a very beautiful Italian lady,"
{whom lleaeduced]. "Thegentlewoman died; and
altenranls, in a tavern in London, he spake of it,"
1~ AP~ITION8 (W, DEPARTED SJ.tBU'S.
L
contrary to his sacred promise], " and then geiag"
[outof doors] " the ghost of the gentlewom&D did
~ to him. He was afterwarda troubled with
the apparition of her, even sometimes in eompuy
when be waa drinking. Before she did appear,
he did find a kind of chilness upon his spirits.
She did appear to him in the morning before·he
was .killed in a duel."
Of the causes of many apparitions which have
been recorded, it is not so easy, as in the fQregoing
narrative, to obtain a satisfactory explanation.
Such is the case with regard to the story related
of Viscount Dundee, whose ghost, about the time
he fell at .the battle of Killiecranky, appeared to
Lord Balcarras, then under confinement, on the
suspicion of Jacobitism, at the castle of Edinbwogb.
The s~tre drew aside the curtain of his friend's
bed, looked 11teadfastly at him, leaned for some
time on the mantle-piece, and then walked out of
the room. The Earl, not awar~ at .the time, that
he was gazing upon a phantasm, called upon ~n­
dee to stop. News soon arrived of the unfortu-
nate hero's fate. Now, regarding this and other
stories of the kind, however authentic they may be,
the most interesting particu1ars are suppressed. Of
the state of Lord Balcarras's health at the time, it
baa not been deemed necessary that a syllable
should transpire. No argument, therefore, either
in support of, or in opposition to, the popular be-
APPA.RITIGN8 OF DEPARTED SPIRITS. 169
lief in appari~ns, can be gathered from ·an anec.:
dote so deficient in any n«>tice of the molt important
circumstances upon which the development oftruth
depends. With regard to the spectre of Dundee
appeariog just at the time he fell in battle, it must
beconsidered that,agreeably to the well-known doc-
triDeof clumces, which mathematician& have so well
investigated, the event might as well occur then as
at any other time, while a far greater proportion of
other apparitions, less fortunate in such a suppos-
ed confumation of their supernatural origin, are
quietly.allowed to sink into oblivion. Thus, it is
the office of superstition to carefully select all suc-
cessful coincidences of this kind, and to register
them in her marv_
ellous volumes, where ·for ages
they have served to delude and mislead the world.
To this story I shall add another, from Beau-
mont•s World of Spirits, for no other reason, than
because it is better told than most ghost-storiet with
which I am ~uainted. It is dated in the year
·166!!, and it relates to an apparition seen·by the
daughter of Sir Charles Lee, immediately prece-
ding her death. No reasonable doubt can be placed
on the authenticity of the narrative, as it was
drawn up by the Bishop of Gloucester, from the
recital of the young lady's father.
" Sir Charles Lee, by his first lady, had only
one daughter, of which she died in child-birth;
and when she was dead, her sister, theLady Ever-
.'
170 APPARITIONS OF DEPARTEl> SPIRITS.
ard, 'desired to hAve the edUcation 'Of .
llae drild,
and she was by her very well edw:ated, till·sfn!W'as
marriageable, and a match was concluded for her
with Sir William Perkins, but was thett pte'v'ei'lted
in an extraordinary maimer. Upon -a T11utsftq
night,.she, thinking she saw a light in_bet- chambet
after she was in bed, knocked fur het maid, who
presently came to Iter ; and she asked, ' why she
left a candl-e bUrning in her dlambe'r~' The tnaid
said, she ' lcl't ·ItO'ne, and thete wa.S HOne but what
she had btO'Ugl\t with her WI: that ti~ ·;' then ·she
Said it·was the 'fire, but that, her maidtold her, was
quite ·out; and eaid 8he believed it was only a
dream ; whereupdil -she said·, it might be ~' and
composed herself again to -sleep. But about two
qf the clock she wa~~ Awakened 'again, and saw the
apparition of a little wol}l'ah :between 'her t:urtain
and her pillow, who told her she was ·her mother,
that she was happy, and that by twelve of the
clock that day she should be with' her. ~rt!­
upon she knocked again for M maid, called for
her clothes, and when she 'WaS -dressed, we'l'lt into
her closet, and t!ame not •tmt again tiD nine, and
then brought out with her a letter sealed to her
father; brought it to her annt, the Lady Everard,
told her what had happened, -and declared, that
as eoon as she w11s dead, it migbt be sent to him.
The lady thought she was suddenly 'fallen.mad,
and thereupon sent ·presently ttwtiy to 'Chelmsford
A:~PAlm'lONS OP DEPARTED SPilliTS; l'tl
I« 'a pbysieiaft and ·surgeon, who both came im-
lbE!diately; but the physician could discern no in-
~tian- tit what the lady ilnagined, or of any in-
~ition of her body ; notwithstanding the lady
-.oUld needs have her let blood, which was done
aceordingty. And when the young woman had
patiently let them do what they would with her,
me desired that.the chaplain might be called to
read prayers; and when prayers were ended, she
took her guitar and psalm-book, and sat down
upon a chair without arms, _
and played and sung
so melodiously and admirably, that her musick-
master, who was then there, admired at it. And
near the stroke of twelve, she rose and sate herself
down in a great dtair with arms, and presently
fetchirig a strong brea1hing or two; imJDediately
-eoxpired, and was 80 suddenly cold, as was much
wondered at by the physician and surgeon. Sht:
died. at Waltham, in Essex, three miles from
.Chelmeford, and the 1etterwas sent to Sir Charles,
at his bouse in Warwiokshire; but he was 80 at.
&ted with the death of his daughter, that he
came not tiD she was buried ; but when he came,
'be caused her to be taken up, and to be bUJied
-wiat ther mother at Edmonton, as she desired in
-her letter."
T1Us is one of the most interesting ghost-stories
Oil record. Yet, when strictly examined, the
.JD&mtt!r in which a leading circum~oe in the case
172 APPARITIONS oF DEPAR'tii~Ylmft.
is reported,-affects bUt too mueh -
the trupenatlWil
air imparted to other of its incidellts. For wb._
ever might have been averred by a ~·.tlf
the ollkn time, with regard to the youagJadfl
sound state of health during the period•she sa,w·her -
mother'sghost, itmaybe asked,-Ifanypraetitioner
at the present day would have been proud ·of IRdl
an opinion, especially when death followed . so
promptly after the spectral impression P
---·" There's blOdm upon her cheek;
But now I .ee it is bO living hue,
But a Strange bectic-Uke the unnatural red
Which autumn plants upon the periah'd leaf."
Probably, the languishing female herself might
have unintentionally contributed to the more strict
verification ofthe ghost's prediction. It was all~
traordinary exertion which her tender frame.WKier-
went, near the expected hour of its 'dieeolution, in
order that she might retire from all her scenee·u
earthly enjoyment, with the dignity of a reaigned
Christian. And what subject can be cc:mceivMmere
worthy the masterly skill ofthe painter, tMn to de-
, picta y~ung and lovelysaint,cheeredwith the'brf«ht
' pi-os~t.of futurity before her' 'and,ere'the quiftr-
~)ng_. ~~e of life, which, for the tllOirieM~·- kilkl-
_,.Jr\0
up jht<> a glow of holy ardour,'hadetpifed 'for
-~- ' e~~r~b'_s~~ping the stringS Of th~ 'guitato'~t:her
,ff ~() ·' ,, " ' ' - .
trem ling ~fingers, and melodiouMy (.ceo~
aP.MU'IIONS OP »BP..TBD SPIRITS. 1'18
• · JlO'U< with her .voice, in. a hymn of praise to
ller·heaftnly Maker? Entranced with such a sight,
the?
plriloeopher hicnself would dismiss for the time
hil•us-.l·eold aDd cavilling scepticism, and, giving
ffr&y to- tlte superstitious impressions of less deliber-
ating by..etaaden, partake with them in the most
gratA!ful of religiooa IJOlaces, which the spectacle
muat have irresistibly inspired.
RegaMing the con&nnation, which 'the ghost's
mission is, in the same narrative, supposed to have
received from the completion of a foreboded death,
-all that can be said of it is, that the coincidence
waS a~ one; for, without it~ the story
would, probably, never have met with a recorder,
and weshould uveloltoneofthe sweetestanecdotes
·~ p:ivatelife has ever afforded. But, on the other
baad, a majority of pc)pular ghost-stories might be
adduced, wherein apparitions haveeither visited our
w.orld, without any ostensib~e purpose and errand
whateveF, or;in the circumstances oftheir mission,
.have .exhibited all the inconsistency of conduct so
·.U exposed in the quotation, which I have given
.from Glo&e, respecting departed spirits. " Seldom
u it may happen," says Nicolai, in the memoir
which be read to the Royal Society of Berlin; on
. the ~ of spectres occasioned ~y ~i-,
" .~persons . believe they see hum~ foi:msi yet
· ,lf~la of the cue are not wanting. ·A respect-
.:~Je. member of this academy, distittgui.shed by his
•' •. f.; :
lT• APPAIIUTlOD 01' D~D &i'Dll'l'S.
merit in tile -.,.. of botany, .00. truth -
cndibili'-1 iU'e UDGeeptiooable, onee ~aw in tbil
V8'J leOJil ia which we are now assembled, the
pltentum.ofthe late president Maupertuis."* But
itappeanthat this ghost was seen by a philosopher,
and, eoasequently, no attempt was made to connect
it with superstitious speculations. The uncertain-
ty, however, of ghostly predictions is Dot unapt}y
illUJtrated in the Table-Talk. of Johucm. · •' An
acquaintance," remarks Boswell, " ·on whoiel'enci•
ty 1 can depend, told me, that wa1kiDg home one
evening at Kilman.ock, he beard himself called
from a wood, by tile voice of a brother whe bad
pe to America; and .the next packet brought u
&CIGOWlt ·of that brother's death. Macbean IUII!el't.
ed, that this inexplicable calltng waa a thiag very
yell known. Dr Johoaoo said, that one day at Ox.
ford, a be waa turning the key of his cbe~ be
head his mother dis~tly calliog s-. She ,..
• Nidlollllll'• JWIDil. ,oL n. p. 176. n-• ._..._._·
~·of ~icolai'a ...y, ol which die-t 1 p.v, ia ~.
.Gnt eha~ 11'111 nodlius more than an abstract, that waa publiahe4
by Dr Ferriar. As I was ignorant, like some other writers wb~
b~ve :advert~ to.this abridgment of the paper, where the adginal
w~'tb be lband, It Will only in t!e eonrae ot writfllg thk ~ ·
. , th.. l ··aeehleu!ellr arMei at tile~,... _
__,_.,
.-.,..-otl'J~-.·Jtlll... ·~_..............
he)} flw eimamltallcea wortlty ol ncKice iD hilllba&act.i. •. · • .:
: . ~- OJr1J'CftVU IliQllllW. . ..~
thea a Litttiold.; but. ftiHA. ~,.. Tw
.............,..h;.tile eoQfae;o{ ClUJ'~
tiob, ·~ ·f..- & man, iiftwi,J ~
tllialed ·witJl lU~ ~ aay· .iu1het
........ OD; 1M aUeged nat~ .nd enaodJt of
g1qta. whioh weehl·oow, indeed, be ~y!tupe»o
ftuous. " A lady on~ ~ ~," _,.. ~Jr. Cole.
l'idge,·.'~ if I bei#ved mlhOJtft ~ ~s?
l ·aoMrered with trut.ll and litnplicitJf~ N~ M..,
._, I •• amVttr m filM!! ••J•i!f:').•
I'T is now time to review·the p~ wbiell hag
been mad'& la this inquiJ..y. Hitherte, we hllft
mtwely tnced the OOIDlexion of epeotral illuaiona
with eel'tabt dise-.ed or imtable 1tates of the
_eyatem, .and haTe demonatl"f'ted in wllat maDJlell
the -'Ject ef the apparitions thua produced, .bas
00i'Pe6p0nded with the fanciful imagea, whieh . .e
had their origin in vario'Qa popular auperatitiona.
Our atteation will nqw become exeluaively con.
filled to the diftrent subordinate iBeidents, whiCh
are reported tohavetaken plaee,duringcotiununica.
dona held with apparitions. We shall find, ~h-~
the quality and form of these unearthly ~.~ts, .
~ atrange enands to the ~th, aud ~'~-.
.,_...,...._,..__________.._~.,.m.-~
. J,
•n.·P.,..,a&lftMfllhayt..,..:.'J';r~.o-<J4Iil
t., JIIP 148;.• ; ;, •· . . . : . ,· . '·''' ,.,; .. ..,j r,;~··
116 -~ ih~ Ft1Tuii iNQflm~.
iiigly caPricious ·contluci, are :m;t :~ .Qc&a,~
of a proper ·world 'of Spirits, as the pneulnatologistS
of the middle _
ages ·would have averred, bnt that
they merely prove the operation ·of certaiidaWi.
of the mind, modified by the inftuence·of those
morbific causes, which are capable ()f iniparting 8B
undue vividness to'thought. · · - ._;
An investigation of this kind the late Dr Femn
ha:d evidently in view, when he wrote the first
pages of his work, entitled, ~ Tleory ofApparf-
tian8. But it must be confessed, that this enter.:.
taining author has been far more successful .in af-
fording abundant evidence of the existence of IOOr-
bid impressionsofthis nature, without any sensible
external agency, than in establishing, as he pro-
posed, a general law of the system, &o which the
origin of spectral impressions could be referred.
" ltis a well-known law,"' he remarks, "that the
impressions produced on ·some of the external
senses, especially on the eye, are more durable tluan
the application of the impressing cause." This
statement comprises the whole ofthe writer's theory
of apparitions ; and the brevity with which it is
given, is in exact conformity with the abrupt~
of'it's dismissal; for, after being applied tO exp~
one or two cases only of mental illusions, numerous
other instances of the kind are related, but the
theory is not honoured with any farther notice.
This neglect, which probably arose from the rea..
.~ ~--~ INQUqt.y. .~T7
;~~vAPu~ ~~b!Jequently, ~~ by .the
~)~r;n~ll, o,f the sufticiency .of hie hypQthesis,
I&J~~' _
of the p,nerality '?fjts applica\ion, will
~e.!." _
it the less necessary for tpe to bestow
P.~ ~ .a,ny attention. The truth is,· that a pro-
~;ih:~rY of apparitions embraces the considera-
tion~ not ·of one law only, but of many laws of
~he human mind; on which account, it will be
AbBoltitely impossible to proceed in this inquiry,
~til oel'tain principles of thought are at the same
time Perspicuously stated. This object, there-
fore, ·1 shall attempt, although, from the restricted
~ of the present dissertation, it will be im-
possible for me to enter into any explanation and
defence of the metaphysical views which may be
advanced, in ~ntradiction to opinions that deserve
Ute highest iespect, in deference to the names
with which they are associated. Any one, also,
conversant in the smallest degree with researches
of this kind, will be but too well aware of the dif-
ficultiea which they involve. For this reason, I
inu&t request eyery indulgence, whenever I shall
have occasion to state, as briefly as the subject
will allow m~ certain primary laws of the mind~
which, fro.m ihe maturest consideration, r have
~n induced to advocate. . '
·'·
.. ·. ·.:. :. -I t
178
CHAP. XV.
'l'HE VAlliBTIEB OF EFFBOTI llESULTING- FROII
SUCH MORBIFIC c.\USES AS ABE CAPABLE CW
RENDERING MORE VIVID THB FEELINGI OF TISE
MIND.
Next, for 'tb dme, my muae c1ec1aret 11111 liDp,
Wllat thoee are we can ~ of thiap.
Which, like thin fllma, from bodiet rile in aa.me,
Play in the air, and dance upon the beams :
By day they meet, and strike our minds, and.fright,
And abow pale ghoeta, and horrid shapes by night. .
Crucla'1 ~itU.
IT will now be necessary to explain, with tar
greater precision and accuracy than has been hi·
therto attempted, certain phenomena of the mind
C)Onnected With this inquiry. In the commence-
ment of our researches, I set out with stating the
view of the late Dr Brown respecting the mind,
namely, that it was simple and indivisible, and
'flu~t every mental feeling was only the mind itself
existing in a certain state.
,': Sensations were, at the same time, conSidered as
p. I .....,..
AQTJ()N OP MOIJ.»IPIC ~Ups. ·~
*"" ()( the ~nind in~ by objec~ ~J
~t.. aqd ac.ti1Jg 1,1pon ~e or~ of sense. J
Deed ~y .wJc:\, ~ aucb 111ental s~ (which
QYe able ~ived the JM$~ of IICiqal Wlpruaionl),
Nlmit of ~ ftMJliliu, DAUMly, ofplecUure and of
pcM, Th* q~ties are agai.n m~ J>y the
peculiar structures of the difFerent organs of ~
~ body, tNld the nature of d,w ~rial ~ses
by ·
wbidl they are ind~ .A.~ly, they
admit of v~ous d~ of ~' vividnu1,
or~; jir,e, from th~ ~ or less aus.
aeptibillty of any sensitive structure to actual im..
p!'CIII!iona ; and, aeconilly, r,OPl the greater or less
force with whieb materi.al CM~ ~ upon our or,.
pns of sense.
Feelings of pleasure ancl pain likewise ae-
knowledge certain ions,te laws, which may ~
teprded AS arising from t.be particulu constitu,..
UoP 9!f tb~ human frame. Thus, it ia implante4
w61&1' Dllt\lre, th4\t ~ e~ternal objects, aa of
taeda, aowul, ~lQur, taste, smell, ~c. sllould ·
eommuJJ«:.te to every iudivi9~ ~efini,te pl~ur..
8bleM ptinful effects.
KeepiDg, then, these .few princip~ i.ll view-, .
J
'IP&f next oh.erve, that ~ ·actio~) of all ptorbi~
._..capableof Wluencing the statesof tile~
maely oonsistJ in an add4tUm beipg ~ ~ ~
vil'idaeas ol such qualitie~~ of our fee~ .M ~
preriQllllly.been mtd~Nd pl~bl~ or .mr~ by
180 - DC.D>!TUtATtON' 'OF'·"'MllY' ~ J '>
~ '"arious·OI!Jjeeta, Yhicli, from infancy,'·impn.
.in·· ~:· definite ttra.imer oar~ organa of seD8Ift:
'llh~s, the ilitrous·oxide adds to.the .vi-ridneeeof
pleasurable feelings, but>bMDO power ohbtoh.ttely
·changing the quality of thbst> mentalstates, which,
from constitutional causes, are more or leSB ~
lut
' We may next consider, with more attention,
the comparative effect produced by the aetion ·of
morbific causes upon sensations and ideas.
It was stated, that among our ·various mental
states, we always distinguish betw:een thoae·which
are induced, when causes impressing our orgat6
of sense are present, and those which oocur as $.
vivals of prior mental states ; the former being
termed 8tmationa, the· latter idea8, or, more cor-
rectly, renovated feelings.
The law by which our feelings are renewed, is
usually explained by metaphysicians under the
name of a-ssociation. Such feelings are always
revived in a less·vivid state than actual ~pres­
~ons ; and, in a healthy condition of the syatem, .a
definite degree of intensity may be ·Blipposed to
mbsist between sensations and ideas, the latta-
being proportionally le88 inten8e, k88 vivid, 01'
foWder than .the former. In this case, it ··~
follow,. that any morbific cauae capable of render-
ing. senaations .more vivid, ought, in the SIUIIe
proportiooal.' degree,.·to affect idea.r. Birt·dJis· is
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
~fithe itwi) • -~- of ·a~ .mtwaeno.t
tor; ·in~ ..a amoed stage of ;dJe earoitement~
o= ,. . beeotile lees wvid, while ideas\tab 1he
f1Me of actual impnaNas.
.· The exeepboas-·to this ·Jaw will be noticed on
aaodlE!r occasion.
I shall now treat of the more general effects re-
&1l\t1og from·such morbific causes, u are capable of
nmderiDg more vivid tbe aft'ections of the mind.
This inquiry has hitherto proceeded upon the
ground, that an undue sanguineous action imparts
a disproportionate degree ofvividness to our ideas.
Nicolai, indeed, in the nanative read by him to
tbe Royal Society of Berlin, from an att.efttive
~ of the phenomena which attended his
illusions, could not nirain from expressing the
suspicion, that they had some inexplicable con-
nexion with the state of the circulating system.
His words are these : '' The natural vivacity of
imagination renders it less wonderful, that after a
-'riolent commotion of the mind~ a number of phan-
tasms should appear for several weeks in sucees-
sion. Their leaving me on the application of
Jeeehes, shews clearly that. some anomaly in ·the
circulation of the blood was connected with their
appearance; though it may perhaps be too has&y_
a conclusion to seek for the cauae in that alone.
It seems, likewi~ remarkable, that tbe ·~ning
of the ·apparitions, after tho disturbaoee. in U1f
6
181 OO..OPBRNJIQN,OF- ~.lH4l:CAUSBS
~Diad _, •Umt,.ae well • d:ae ,.J.temtiQ!l w._.
~ .p-, ·wllea tbey fuaally left ~ hap~ :
epody at the . ~e WWm .• tion ~ .
And it is no ~ess remal"),able, that the -~- ·
befme-
they euth'$y ~' W.t their ~Dfi.t1 qf
colours ; and that they did not vanish or ~
ae fennerly, but~ gadually JD di,;sQl~ iDto .
. ,.
Ill'.
Fi'Plll the dootrine incWcawd iu t,l¥s di~
tiell, tlae conjecture of Nicolai will not, perbapl,.
appear to be devoid of foundation. In tbe v.Mtw
which I took of the opposite e4fects of.the nitro,qj
oaide aad febrile miwna, it was shewn, that ~
bi&blY vivid state of plta&Ql'able feeliPgS -,vhidJ.
the :former w• capable of exciti•g, 001'1'e4PQII.tW
to a ·dilatiug action of the b!Qod e:wted .on .tbe
vueular syatem, the indication of which was.u
~• .U..tole of the heart awl f~s of t,hJ
pulte ; while tbe opposite 4-eots Q£ .the lattQ.-
ageo~ were ~ted with an Wldue influence of
th~ systole of the heart, with a hard pulse,. and_ ..
OOB&tricting tendency of the capillaries. · .
Thetle remarks lead me ~ attempt the exp~
tion of a very important law, relative to the -..
ner in which ·the mind may be inftuenced. A
lflorbific cause, whether pleasurable or painful,
~ only .~te with moral -.gents endowed
• Nleholllea'a J'oumal, •ol. .L p. 178.
'
,
·.wtrB·JroRAL A(J]INTIJ. · · -' 118 .
~ 'IL i.milal' ~power. ']]buS, if we an.r
tllidiitft>us oxide to be a ·marbifire eauae, (wbiclt
tMe 1ltmOst range ·of its action certaiRly.lbeoa,•)
it';d0e8 notlring.'IDOI'e than 6ingle -, aa it .wen;·
all sensations and idea wtftch ere of tbeinseiYeB
mo.rally pleasurable, but baa no immediate eWea&
on the painful feelings with which they are·Datu.
rally mingled. For this reason, it is essy to sup.
pc)!e, that when· Sir Humphrey Dary imbibed a
Jarge quantity of the gas, all the ideas oonneeted
with his favourite chemical researches wuuld be
among the fint to be aWected by thia powerful
agent. And, &fcordingly, on one occaaion, be
remarks, "' I gradually began to loae the percepo
tion of· external things, aDd a mid and .intenae
recollection f!! aome .fo'rrMr ~ pueecl
through the mind." Again, in the opposite e&'eca
arising from the febrile miasma, this powerlul
agent imparts no additional degree of vividness to ·
• OrtUa, In bia history of poisons, remarks, that tlae nitroiD
oxide di8eolves with great promptitude In the veine fiF ~
iDto which it it injected, but pmduce1 ao appam!t ciwrp in the
uteri~~ blood. When gradually injecttd, it doel ll8t at ~t .;.~
rille to aDf o\lfervable ciFect, but if the injectione .are w.ultipl!ed_,
they: 11111 followed by phenomena, like those attending eopious
inhalations, and to these death may supervene, which, (as he ~up­
poses) begtns by tbe brain. If injected in a large quantity at once,
it oceuioni the dlttenllkm ot the pulmonary portiOil of 1M heart,
aDc1 ia likewise fatal. .
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
184 LIMITED ACTION OF MORBIFIC CAUSES.
\.. .i·.T ··,l..~~: :·- - - . -,. ·~ -· ..: - ~ .·~ '.~< '"'='·~~ ·
the quality of any feelings, but such as, from the
~8' operatiOn·of moral agents, -·are,'dt thentU
8e1Te8,paiftfal. The actiOn :of various·other ifi6tiJ
biae cad:!!es admitS of a similar explanation!.:: lh'~
very·highly excited·state of the melanchOlicteJii.;'
perament; the feelings which are morbitlly~atr~
ed, are, from the same principle of selectiori{ o~
a painful nature. How well is this fact iHl1strit1
ed inthe too correct, yet very uncharitable descrip-·
tion of a melancholic scholar, as depicted.bf an
early popular writer. " A melancholy mari," 8s:j.
Sir Thomas Overbury, " is a stranger from the
drove :·one that nature made a sociable, becau~
she made him man, and a crazed disposition has
altered. Impleasing to all, as all to him ; strag-·
gling thoughts are his content, they make· him
dreame waking, there's his pleasure. His ·imagiJ
nation is never idle, it keeps his mind in a continuaU
motion, as the poise the clocke: he winds up his
thoughts often, and as often unwindes them ;
Penelope's webbe thrives faster. He'le seldom be
found without the shade of some grove; in whose
bottome a river dwels. Hee carries a cloud in his
taee, neve!' faire weather : his outside is framed tb
Bit itiside, in that bee keepes a decorom; boih '\fit!
~Jy: ·<Speake to him; bee heares irith his ·
~es; eares follow his mind, and that's not at
leyaure._
_He_ thinkes bnsinesse,.-hut nser--does
any :_ . he. is all contemplation, no action~ He
':t .J ! ~ '' 1 _ •• ' • ...
--~-- ---
.....
:; ~ ,.. - . ... 1 , - t -
~ ·:
OTHER IIENTAL EXCITEMENTS. 185
~rl.! . :.L'.f ~-:-- ·,-''
~ea .oo laahioaa his thoughts, aa if.he...-..~
~em to some purpose; but they pro~e .~
tblrr, as a piece of wrought timber ot-oo,._ m.
'_pirits and the sunne are enemies ; tJae 8Uil brigh~
~ warme, his humour blacke aud cold : variety
~foolish apparitions people his head, they suft"er
, ~ DOt to breathe, according ~ the 'necessities ~f
•ure; which makes him sup up a draupt of
" much aire at once as would serve at thrice.
J;lee denies nature her due in sleepe, aud nothiDg
pleueth him long, but that which pleaseth his oWD
falltasies : they are the consuming e-vils, and evil
consumptions that consume him alive. Lastly,
be is a man onely in shew, but comes short of the
\aetter part ; a whole reasonable soule, which ia
man'tr ehie( pre-eminence, and sole marke froni
creatureS sensible." •
It will now be necessary to treat of certain other
important phenomena, connected with the vivifying
action of morbific causes. I have before described
the infiuence imparted by the brain and nerTea to
the sangqioeous system. Hence, the contractility
~ the involuntary fibres of the heart•and blood-
veasels, and the resistance which sucA.~bres-make
to •the dilating power of the blood, during~.the
course of its circulation. ThWI, when. ~ heat js.
-~------------.....;....~_...;....;..._ ..
,.
...• Sir Thomas Overbury, Bia Wife, 14th edit. A. D. 1630;
186:ALTIBNA'DIONS OF PLli:AiUllB AND PAIN
pu\Wly appli«l tQ a blood.-veuel, its firat etfect w
to. i~ the c:1ilat.ibili.ty of the contained fluid, ·
and with it,. tOgive riect to a pleasurable feeling. ·
But,. upon the farther <1011tinuation of this e&Wie of
exe~tionl the ·~ntractility of vascular fibres i•
~ tQ the ..~~pauile inftueaoo of the eo~
·~ iluid, and 4 feelmg of pain is ~be con!M}.
· quenee. Arguing, ~en,. by analogy, from thAt
phenoplalon of hee.t;-·Silo Humphrey Da"Vy has
..apposed. it. ~1~. tMt '-' pl~bl~ 1\leling
~ uniformly ~ '"tk a modeJ:"•te inere~
of nEnOUS a.etioo.; a1lill: that this increase, Wbell
canied to certain limit&, pr:educes nrlxed emotiQM
or sublime pleaeUl'tl, and ~ those mwnts·~
eolute pain,.,• L*ly, niuclt· ro110t~aa.nce hu
been given to this Q])inioo, by tfte. ~t¥>n of
the following very remarkable ~, wm. ~·
red to a pupil of PltlfeiM!Of· Sill~, at. 1Ea1e
<.Wlege,·ill America:-" A 8@tleman, a'bout JliM,.
teeD years of'a.ge, fJf a ~e temper~. aAd ·
cbeerful temper, and in the most perfect health, ·
inh&\ed the nitro\~$ oxide, which waa prepared aQd
administered in tlu: usual dote and ~r. · IJQoo
,.a;..,..q 1Ua foeliDga were ~nly ele-.a&ed,
Iii that (a lw exprwed it) he QOuld n~ ~
• ·• Humphrey DaTY'• Raeatche. COIIIlel'lling the N"urou
O~iM,pap612. .
U.,~~t:..daneiag and ~r .To .-ell·a .d.-
w•he asci~ that he wu tmowa iato a fr.ipt,..
~4lelirium, and his aeriiOWJ ~ ~ mleQt
thAt he suuk to the ~h.~~; aud baving·
tlJere RJDained till he in fiOUle d~ recove:tEld. bM,
~' . he again roseonly to renew tlle,Ql• ...,
~ IQNSCUW efli>rta, aD() the most ~
~ Utd cries, until, overpoweredby the~
ty_l){ the paroxysms, he SfPin fell to the ~
~.atly senselese, Utd pantingvehemently. Fe
the spa<:e of two hours these symptolll8 CQDtin.ued ;
~ was perfectly uneonscioua of what ~ w., .W.:
iQg. 1M was in every respect like a maniae.: ho
aatt:s,.however, that hill fee/Mtga vilwated ~ ·
'J1Cfl:ftct ~and eluJ mOO~~
After the first violen.t effects had subsided, he w•
obligedtoliedowntwoor thNe timesfrom~ve
~' although he was immediately routed·"*'
any one's entering the room. The eft'ects reJIUtip,.
e4.ma degree foJ." two or three day~~
by•a . hoarseReJS, which he attributed to the. ox..
~, made while under the UdluellCiit Qf tlae
~~·
"ftti8 is a very singular experiment, and is 10.fD
in*aetive, that the alternatiens of pieuure ·aiMt
: • .Et1inJMirgh Pbiloeophial Journal .fu J..-, ·~ 1828,
page 20••
;l~ EXC~S ·TO HUTAir ~G~TS.
~t.:'wbich.iadicia~ ·an extr&Jne :atate.!Qf·-4pt·
~' .sufticieAtly well·e~plain the.·~~·~
91 r»>U:).J of, .the vis,ions of enthusiasts. . St.T~
for instance, of whom I have before l!lpOkefh'J~
eaJta&ies wherein the vividness of .}ler ideas :W$f so
intense, that, like the American student, she .~fteq.
"·vibrated between perfect happiJ¥!18 and perf~
misery ;, or, in.other words, she had altel'Jlll.te
prospects .of heaven and of hell, of be~
spirits and of devils. She saw St Pete.r .and ~
Paul, but she saw li)cewise foul fiends, whom ~
insulted by crossing herself, and by tna.kiqg •
of scorn, or whom she kept at ~y, by tp~
holy water on the ground. SheJlad, aft;erw~
tlac felicity of.seeing souls freed from.pur~ '
and carried up to heaven ; but none, to her .~
collection, ever escaped the purifying flam~,~
cept Father Peter of Alcantara, Father I v9~
and a Cannelite friar.•
Toallthese varieties ofvivid m~tal elfec~.ho:w:-
ever, which result from morbific causes, there are
moatevident exceptions. Every person ddfent&om
·aDOtber in his moral disposition, and hia feeli&aga
..are, ~y certain natural objecta, impresllt!d w.jda. p.
·4it'ereot degree of vividness. Among the.a_.,.
·rousindividuals, therefore, who, about t'!enty'years
' .. : ·{"': ~
.. '·
• ToWliMIIIl'• Tour throup Spain,.vol. ii. p..lOf».
,,,. e' ,,Google
~ ~ .,..-HJWijb~L'ITiES OF APPARITIONW. -··. ' 18;
~' ..itntibed the nitrous oxide, there were·feW
~it'tilreeted entirely alike. Indeed; ·to.seme
~ 'pain'instead of pleasure.reSulted hm--~
~ion.~ · · ·· · - ~
'J. It 'must in~tably follow from the {~in~
~s; that the quality of all -spectral illutioritt,
~hether distinctly pleasurable,--distiricdy painful,
~· alternately pleasurable and painful, m118t·de.
pend upon the particular nature and exeitability
Of its mOrbmc eause. lri the symptomatic fever,
fbr _instance, named Hectic, a morbific cause Yivl-
:Ues every pleasurable feeJing which·can poeaibly
Coonect itself with a ·favourable prognosia. And
if we grant, that thia illusive hope of an immediate
-et&te at convaleecence ari8es indiacriminately in the
breaSt of every Hectic patient, what reaaon ·is
there, that an 'expectation equally extravagant,
:l'hou}d not extend to a probable state after.death;
or that apectra1 impressions of angel-viaits, inci-
·cJentat to a morbidly-excited state of hope, ahould
,.. ----------------
·.. · • One iDc1iYitlual, alter having imbibed the gu, ex~·
.-pre~~~u~e iD .0 tbe muldel t a I«<OId felt u it tlae bvlk ol. dse
.IMI!lJtJr11t ~ without ita pvity; a dUrd, ~ it a ~t
W.U ,_m,.him t.o tbe ground; a fourth, complained..ofa ?~~
lellllli:ion in his stomach, but this soon gave way, and was suc:-
Cieelled ·"Y a lively delirhun and laughter t • iNa~ ..Wa-illex-
preeaible uneuineu from a burning heat in the chest, and waa
llternta. tblown iDto aiJilcop&ef sciiile-mb1ltilill in>d'urMion.
l~ Tlf! SUPPOSED SPECIAL MISSION
ttat alike be cherished by the good Dian, ·a.s:'6jt
the slave of viee? The truth is, that the gUar:-
dian spirits who honour the beds of dying ~
tients with a visit, adopt a line of conduct DeveJ'
to be depended upon for consistency. As bar~
bingen to heaven, they shew the same readiness in
4'ering their services of introduction to sinners
.as to saints. This fact still continues to meet with·
coidirmation from many modem visionary natra-·
.tives, the sabjects of which are the visible·tokens·
of salvation, and beatific visions (If they may be
10 eaDed), enjoyed by the most dissolute and
abandoned ofhuman beings at their hour of death;
..a it ·is amusing to obse"e, h011r scriptural a~
-w,rity is ia mysterious language wrested from its
plaill ali mdent lMIIDing, to accoant for aniucon-
.ailterrey-.oglaringly oppositeto all the conditicmson
wbich drejoys of heava are promised, n-.ly,Uilat
.they eboutd be the rew.Hd -of virtuous iMegriiy.·
'l1aere iA, bowever, another poi1rt of 'View in
which apparitions have been considered; It has
been said that they arise for special purposes con-
~ ·with ·the extension of our ho1y religiOn ;
and hence, the remarkable story of Colonel Gar-
diner's conversion, as related by Dr Doddridge.
" This memorable event,.. says the pious writer,
" happened towards the middle of July 1Tl9.-
The Major bad spent the evening (ad, if I mia-
take'llOt, it was the Sabbath)in some gaycompany,
OF APPA,RITIONS OONSIDUBD. ltl
and ha4 -an anhappy ~ 'Widl I& marriad
woman, whom he was tb -ltUtnd aattly at twel\1&.
The company broke up idlout ele'V~~ ad ._
judging it c:onvenient to a'Dtitipate the time ap-
pointed, he we~ into his cbambet to kill the
tedious hour perhaps 'With 8dme &lilusing book,
or $0me other way. But it very aceBtentaUy hap..
~ that he took up a religious book w:hich
his good mother ·or aunt had, wittlout his know~
ledge, slipped into his portmanteau. lt was ~w
ed, if I remember the title e~a£tly, The Chris-
tian 'Soldier, tt Heav~ ta\oeB by Storm ; and it
~ ~ by Mt '111~ Watson. Guessing
by the title of it, tllat ~ 'tf'oald nnd some 'phrases
df his own profession spiritualitJed in a l'Hftller
1thiCh, he 'thougtlt, might -aft'ord him 80111e ·diver-
sion, he 're!olved to dip into it ; but he took no
eerie:;~ notice of any thing it had in it ; and yet
ftiile this book was in his h•d, an impression
was made upon his mind, (perhaps God onty
ktu:tWs bow), which drew after it a train of the
most ilnportant and happy consequences.-He
thdnght he ssw an unusual blaze of light M
tlpbll tbe book while he was reading, ..rhich he at
first imagined might happen by some accident in
the candle ; but lifting up his eyes, he apprehead-
ed, to IUs aueme .am•zement, that there waa k-
fdre hiiD, as it were suspended in the air, a viaiWe
representation of the Lord Jesus Christ npon the
* TBB.illU~~p SPECIAL ~~~ION
. ~,.. IRU'l'Q~ on all sidee.with.a~.,;.~
. :tfM. U,n~ aa it a voice, ·or something ~l.iva­
~t .f,O ,a voUxl, had C()Ule to him, to ,t.JtiS effect,
(~r be waa not coafident aa to the words), 'Oh,
sianer ! did I suffer tJtis for thee, and are .these
thy 11eturna?' ,StJ;uck with .so amazing. a pheno-
menon as this, there .remained hardly any lite in
hipl; so that he sunk down in the arm-chair in
which he sat, and continued, .he knew not how
1o.g, ~ble."
With regard to this vision,-th~ appearance of
our Saviour on the cross, and the awful words re-
peated, can be considered in no other light, than
aa 80 mauy recollected images of the mind, w~ch,
probably, had their origin in the language.of 10me
urgent appeal to repentance, that the Colonel might
.have casually read, or heard delivered. F)-om
what cauae, however, such ideas were rendered aa
vivid as actual impressions, we have no informa-
tioa to he depended upon.• This vision was cer-
tainly attended with one of the most important of
CODaeqUeocea connected with the Christian dispen-
eatioo-the conversion of a sinner. And hence,
no aiagle narrative baa, perbaJ.ll, done more to con-
• A abort time ¥ore the 'riaion, f'.olonel GardiDer W aceind
...... fliD fiGm hia ~--Did the braiD JeCiift - eJiPt
.....flliaJuJ ,.._ tbe aeddeDt, 10 .......1. Jdm .. tbia
.,....,....,
<· .oP·.uP.u.mOlfS CON&~ 'lt8
;.j:triD:·.the .superstitious oplaien, that appiritiDu
.;: of·thii awful kind cannot arise Withoin a thine
~- .fiat.· ·Dr Doddridge, ·for instaaee, pt"Sfiice8 'the
·' ~tory with the following striking appeal :...0." It ia
with all solemnity that I now deliver it down to
posterity, aa in the sight and presence of GOO;
and I choose deliberately to expoee myseltto thole
· severe censures, which the haughty, but empty
scorn of infidelity, or principles nearly approach-
ing it, and effectually doing its pernicious .work,
may very probably dictate upon the occasion, ra-
ther than to smother a relation, which may, in the
judgment of my conscience, be likely to eonduce
so much to the glory of God, the honour of the
Gospel, and the good or mankind."
Theseare, indeed, most 8olemn words,-far more
solemn, perhaps, than the occuion required. If Dr
Doddridge had merely contented himlelf with ex-
pressing the satisfaction, which every Christian
must necessarily feel, at the happy ~ect which the
vision ultimately had upon the' mind of Colonel
Gardiner, he would have done more real service
to true religion, than by considering it as a. special
interposition of Heaven. For, could tJaia very
learned author be ignorant, that apparitions no less
genuine than the one which he hRS recorded, have
. never failed, during every period of ~e, to sanc-
tion the grosaeat idolatry of the. ~~ even
oC papal Rome? The Doctor wu tleukiees una.
I
._..... TaiiUftOUD .UCIAL.ISSION
,'8Mt thN·there vu a viaion·oa. recmd, ·the au-
tbftnticity oi which no:.ou can reillooably donbt;.
wllenin a aupematural token, no less awfW than
(bat ,whieh apptmed to Colonel G.diuer, aad, to
all appearance, no less sanctioned by Heaven, was
&tent t& one of the most powerful enemies to Chris-
tianity, that lived in the 17th century, eDCOUra-
gin~ him to publish the book in which his danger-
ous tenets were contained. This singular narrative
i» to be found in the Autobiography of Lord
Herbert of Cberbury, which I shall give in this
nobleman's own words :-" My book, De Veritate,
pruut diatinguitur are'Delatione veriaimili, po~li­
bili et afalao, having been begun by me in Eng-
land, and formed there in all its principal parts,
was about this time finished ; all the spare hours
which I could get from my visits and negociations,
being employed to perfect this work, which was
· no sooner done, but that I communicated it to
Hugo Grotius, that great scholar, who, having
e!!Caped his·prison in the Low Countries, came into
France, and was much welcomed by me and·MOQ-
sieur Tieleners, also one of the greatest scholars
of.his time, who, after they had perused it, and
given :it more commendatiODS than it is fit for me
to repeat, ~orted me earnestly to print and pub-
lish. it.;t·Wbeit, as the frame of my whole ·book
was so dil'etent from aay thing whica bad been
wfttten h4retoi9re, I fowad I mu&teither.reaollDce
,,,. e' ,,Google
:op "AP.PAitl'll&lls COMUJD~ib- 195
tbe -~f71 all t11at bld betm writtea lfonaer-
IY' ~ tbe method of tnding oatti'Utb, and
ooa.e•, rdy-iuiat upoa my~ way, or huard
myeelf to a general censure coueerning the whole
argumeat of my book ; I must confess it did not
a little animate me, that the two great penona
above-mentioned did so highly value it, yet, as I
knew it would meet ..nth some opposition, I did
oonaider whether it was not better for me a while
to suppress it. Being thus deubtful in my cham-
ber, oae fail' day in the summer, my casement
being open towards the south, I took my book,
De Yeritale, in my hand, and, kneeling on my
knees, devoutly said these words : .
" ' 0 thou eternal God, author of the light
which now shines upon me, and giver of aU in-
•ard illuminations, I do beseech thee, of thy in-
finite goodness, to pardon a greater request than a
sinner ought to make ; I am not satisfied enough
whether I shall publish this book De YerUate; it
it be for thy glory, I beseech thee give me some
sign from beaTen ; if not, I shall suppress it.'
" I had no sooner spoken these words, but a
loud, though yet gentle noise came from the bea..
vens, (for it was like nothing on earth), which did
so comfort and cheer me, that I took my petition
as granted, and that I had the sign deuwaded,
whereupon aha I reeolTed to print my book.
" Tbis, how strange soeverit may seem, I protest
196 SPECIAL M'IEIBtoM·OI'·APP.UJTIONS.
~fore the·eternal God• true; .~-;.&IQ. I_aqy
way·superstitiously deoeiftd .hereU;,.~· ,I .~
not only clearly hear'tbe BOise, hlat.io. the: ~t
sky that ever I saw, beiog witheut..U cloud. did
to my · thinking see the place 'lropa :whtnoe.,.~t
came."
On this na.ITative of Lord Herbert, Dr ~'
in his "View ofthe Deiatieal Wnters," makes the
following remarks :-" I have no doubt of .4is
Lo~dship's sincerity in this account; the serious
air with which he relates it, and the solemn p~
testation he makes 88 in the presence of tbe *r-
nal God, will not suffer ua to question.the truth of
what he relates ; viz. that he both m~e ~ .~­
dress to God which he mentions, and th-.t in con-
sequence of this, he was persuaded that he beard
the noise he takes notice of, and regwded 88 a
mark of God's approbation of the request .he had
·made; and accordingly this great man was deter-
mined by it to publish his book. He seems to
have considered it 88 a kind of imprimatur given
to it from Heaven, and as .signifying .the l)ivine
· approbatiOn of the book itself, and of wh~t..was
• C()niained mit.... . ·..' -; (
•.:t:i<
l t~!~t~1(1\~w ~erely observe, that the ~ce
'·nurW~'WMI!9fawn from Colonel Gardiner•• &1lG!y is
,<,ufm~~li~.b;y: this C()qil~~ to it'~ by
" 'lUdfifllttrflainthilu&Npecw. "~~ ~ s~ne.r Qf
tli~*'ffil0CMt~.of"tli~~Al~ ,.~),
],97
·I
·&,todler··~• citiat.t.opQblish a work, .the
~a-<tlif · wlbch. is..to fiQBlpletely ov~rtuin the
J~ re~. .Sach are the cont~tions
.;'whlclt a supenbtious IH!lief in apparitions must
·ever involve. WeB may a ~ writer, to whom we
are indebted for eome excellent remarks on Lord
.Herbert's liCe, exclaim with utoniabment :-" In
what·strange inconsistencies may the human mind
entangle itself!"•
After this digreeaion, into which I have been ito-
perceptibly led, I shall now proceed to another
inquiry relative to the actiOn of morbific causes.
The question is,-What deecription of ideas, whe-
'ther of sight, of hearing, or of touch, most .fre-
quently gives riae to spectral illusions? Certainly,
the majority <X appuition-atories on record indi-
cate, that ghoib are more frequently eeen or heard,
· than abselutely felt.
False impressions oC vision are decidedly more
•·Retrospective Renew, ~L 7, p1p 118. The toUowillg are
the toemarb J:JJ.de, in tbJa well.-.duaed perioclicalwork, on Lord
Herbert's rilioD :-" It ia Jdshly ainguJ8r tba&. a writer holding
· cap.IGrla like t1we, ahO!Ild, when doubtful u t.o the propriety or
JIIOIII"lpQng them, look for • apecial revelation Ot die Divine
pleuure. In what strange inoonaiatenciee ..Hn'diet'blimaa mind
entangleitself I .When on the point f1l pltblllliblg a· w,k,, whieb
wu t.o prove the in~ of re"IE''eb, LoN.llefllat pat up a
prayer tor all ..,.w iaterpoaielala tl a.ft. t.o ~ hJm...
198 PHANWA.SP.r:Olf VJIION ·UaDlLY
n~ tb.a those of·ao.y odaer faaal&y.• Ta.,e
are, alao,.grouJ¥U for the ~6atwhmid.a
of vision are vivified to the height of ~a
conespoodiug aft'ection of the optic nerves eocca-
panies the illusion. A penon, fOl' inlltMlce, labour-
ing uDder.spectral impreuions, sees the form of an
acquaintance standing before him in his chamber.
Every eifect in this case is produced, which we
might expect from the figure being impreued an
the retina. The rays of light issuing.from that
part of the wall which the phantasm seems to 00.
scure, are virtually intercepted. But if impret-
sioos of vision are really renewable on the retina,
their delineation ought to be always reDW"kable
for accuracy. 'fhe author of a paper 011 the phan-
tasms produced by disease, (ioaerted in Nichol100~s
Journal), remarks, that the fantastical representa-
tions of some books or parchments, exhibHed either
manuscript .or printed characters, agreeably to the
particular subject of his previous thoughts.
It would also appear, that ideas are the most
eai!Uy .vivified, when the retina is not at the 88Dle
time.aJfectecl by seasib1e objeete. This is, indsed,
a faet whim may be very readily ·aotiUpa.ted,·
.· . : ~
•~·-
Maebeeh vry ~ly exclaims, when in doubt re- ·:
sptlilff~....~· ot the alr-dnqdager ~·aaw be~ 1
r~·....-.~tbe.t.ola.!lbe...,:~~ g, . · '
elaeJ.w-!fP.Jflae .~'!,1 l ·l :a:mJ '1-.. • ._,: '. •· • hi;J.i~-:tJ;,.-, .
w.llea. we ·Oolatrider bGw vi'fidly ideas of·vilien'are ·
rapl'i!JEDted. in the minds of those individuak,·wbo, ··.
aAer ~ long· ex~ the enjeyu~eDt of
~' become aft'eeted with blindness. I reeollect
talciDg.aj<NJ'DeY in eompany with a gentleman thus
cireumstanced, than whom no one, in the com-
plete poeeession of the faculty of vision, eould be
mere interested with learning the general features
of the country through which he passed, the fonn
of its hills, the course of ita riven, or the stile of
arehiteetUJe displayed by various edifices. He
often remarked, that the ideas communieated to
him, although in the ordinary course of conTersa.-
tion, were ao vivid, that he was coo~ they
lllWit abnost equal the sensations of perfect vision.
On the general priooiple, then, that·ideas of vi-
sible objeets are the most readily excited during a
aeelusioo. from actual impressions, the operation of
~ morbifie cause in inducing spectral illusions will
be exerted with the greatest force in completedark-
neu, or dtiriug the closure ol the eyelids. This
fact ie vey strikingly coufirmed in the intereSting
lk'.dotult which Nicolai has given of the scate of hill
idae,~during theattack of a bilioua remittent. ~-•·1
must. observe," he says, "that my imaginatjop_
~ in general a great J~y ~ ;~..
I h,.ve~f9.f,ex~ple, sketched ill ~~·:ll~, ,
be&- of,P..:r..~ aovela .aad .play.,?~·1-biWtP··
commi.ttld very few of them to pape!i',;·~W'J·c
~ .VISUAL IMPBE88l()~S DUillN~. D.uptN~~~ ,
' .' : • . ' ; : . • .I -'-~ ~. • • • ·•. -'. • .. ,., • • ' . t •~"-~.-1. ~ 1 1
'WM~itouate·~tet!WattbMM. -'Hil~,
~-;~·ftlt~ttvhl'aiiJaf·~
· ibllltl&te'Uf.m~ ·1 hmte'ldken•q: ....,.~1ot'
wMn trtn"ellingo, ·I ha.1'eisat irr 'my:~f18114>
coutct ~ 6nd empiO,--,in ~'- •d ·
-r2
i~m. Conlltantly, and e'V'ell" Db'tll{ do:~
dierent persons whom I imagiae·in the of~;
1 tion Of 'such a plot, pl.'e8ellt them8el'\tes:to •Jl16.ifttl
the m<Mt me!y and·distinct manner; :tb* ~ !
their featnres, their manner, their dress,:ad dieir•
complexion, are all visible to myfaney;·· .i\i-.'1~:
as I meditate on a ·fixed plan, and alsetwMdlfWfy ·
it into e&ct,--even when I am interrupMl:l, ·\md'
. when ·I must begin it again at difFe1ebt·tiinea, ·aM
.the acting persons continue present·in· t,M,:-.ety ·
same form in which my imagination at·fim pro-
duced them. I find myself frequently in & · ~
between sleeping and waking, in which a nmilber ·
of pictures of every description, often oftbe'ltta~
est forms, shew themselves, change and vanish; ·Jn
the year 1'178, I was afllj(,ted with a .
biJioua fcrv•, ·
whlcli, at times, though seldom, became S& hi!JI afl
to ~oe delirium. Every day, to•M'd•· ..._.. ~
iug, the~· ca'llle·on, and it I happene•h.o·ttiat·
my eyes at that time, I could perceive ~~ the
cold 6t of the fever was beginning, even before the
. sensatioti crootd waa'observabl~. rrhls ·f·~'by
the diltiilct appearance of coloured pictures of leas
·than half .the.ir natural size, which looked aa in
PBANTASD NOT DJSPBLLBD BY LIGHT. iOl
• ,., - • - f ~ • ~ ' :' ', ' - , - I • • \ 1 f~ ' t i ' ': 7 ( .' •\
franMlS. They were a.set.of landsca~ composed
·~ .
... aad.othe..M;••·· \Jf l.Mpc ...,
e.JWMl-at.Jimlly.._...............topt..
,-
~.rip44 "'fM.ioo. ~ao...J~gau:ea .vuw.t,·a&d.
cahera·•.Pf e.ed. ·.Blat if,J.opened .•y.:eyea all ·
'*
.ae; .if· I:Siluhetn .-.x
W a-diW.-luad.
8CIIIpeo · ~adae:.W fit. of.tbe lev~ I~·
·~; .-.nd shut ay eyes ~vezy 811Kl08d.f01! tbe ~·
poe& .of.o~.UOO. aad ·every tU..e ,& dilf~t
~ -.ppeared, replete with various. oiject.s,
. .
~ ·had DOt the least reaembla.pce witb tboae
tUt..appeared befcwe. These pictures pN&ented
tbelol!el'Yee without interruption, as long u the .cold.
6t ef the fever lasted. They became fant.er .as
8CQl .. I began to grow warm, and when ·I was
~: .l!Q all were gone. When the cold fit of
the fever WM entirely past, no more pic&ures ap-
peared; but if, on the next day, I could again ~
pictures when my eyes were shut, it was a oertain
sign tw-t the cold fit waa coming on."•
·It has ,been supposed by some metaphyllieiana;
t._when epectral illusions of vieictl oc;cur duriag
the . .Ilion from any sensible impreaioi» of. the:
~ they may be always ·dispelled,UPQD· die, ino-
t~*'of .qht. Tbia is,,howevet', JMit eJrwi\Jfl·
) .•.. - .·
,·:• ~llfll:• ~ ~~.~~'"' ~Ar:n n·;
·r .,~ ·\,> :·; ·.;·. · . ;: . ,~ ~··.': !. ~. r, .t·)~tg ; ~; ·:t!1
102 lLLU810lfi ()J SOUND
the -case, particularly if the states tof,tJse miad.are
very strongly influeneed by a morbific eauae.
When Nieolai~a disorder was at ita greatest height,
the figure of a deceased person,which ae. aw, re..
mained uuchanged during both the llluuting.aacl
the opening of the eyelid& Tbi& feet wonld ·•
dicate, that his ideas of vision, thusunduly vivified;
far exceeded in their degree of intensity thole of
actual impressions ; for which reuon, they could
not be annihilated by the operation of CODllllOD
sensible objects.
Next to false sensations of hearing, those of
sound may be mentioned, whieh, whenever they
occur, create the greatest surprise and alarm :-
" This is no mortal buaineea, nor no IIOWld
That the earth owes.''
" The ear,"' says a writer on this subject, who
himself experienced very strange illusions of sound,
" is much more an instrument of terror than the
eye. Diseased perceptions of sight are more com·
mon than thoee of hearing, and they are in general
bome 'with·more tranquillity. A few simple sounds
usUally'oonstitute·tbe amount of what the ear ua-
faitbftill!;' presents; but when incessant half-arti-
culated wbispen, sudden calls, threats, obscure
murmurs~ and distant tollings, are heard, the mi~d
·-· ~ .;
.......--- --- - -
ilrillf. l.m.pmitddb paciedee· ·&Dd: ·lcaltn -~
phy.• '·
-; ,'J!be ideas -which •have•their·origin in tl1e:af'ec-
tians'of, oar:m,useular frame m11eh less frequently
.WUda.ua:than thote of~ or of bearing. In
fact, those modifications of the sense of external
resistance, wbicb bear refereDCe to our IDUICUlar
eontuetions, (whence are derived all our notions
of hardness, softness, roughness, smoothness, I!Pli-
dity, liquidity, &c.) afford the very means by
which we ascertain whether an apparition is true
01' false. When Macbeth sees the air-drawn dag-
ger before his eyes, and finds that it does not re-
sist the muscular oontractions of his fingers, or, in
less formal metaphysical language, that it eludes
his grasp, he asks in amazement,
" Art thou not, fatal vision, Belleible
To feeling as to eight ? Or art thou but
A dagger of the mind ; a false creation,
Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain ?"
Occasionally, however, the trial is attended with
a very different result :-thus, when a friar per-
sonated an apparition, and haunted the chamber of
the Emperor Josephus of Aua.tria, a Alation ofthe
Monareh ~ bold of the substantial phantasm,
• Letter on the Phantasms produced by disordered Scnaatiob.-
Ntdw~MM'• .J•I'ff4l, TOL n. p; t9G.
flnd Sittp~1iUa G\Jt'OftMcwindft;Uia,BUa pretty
··~ffectually.• · · · ·
· There.can be little doubt, but that the .Circum-
stance of our musc:ula.r feelings of resistan~ being
less liable to delusion than tlwae .o£ sipt, baa
given rise to the variety of notions which, from a
very early period, have been entertained on' ihe
natu:Pe of spiritual beings. . Thus, Lucretius, as
he js translated by Creech :
'' Nor must we think these are the blest abodes, . .
The quiet mansions ot the happy gods,
Their substance is so thin, so mueh teflb'd,
Unknown to eenae, nay, eearce pereeiT'd by miDi>
• " In most ot the relations ot gbosta," says Grose, " they are
supposed to be mere aerial beings, without substance, and that they
can pass through walla and other solid bodies at plesaure. A par-
tic:ular instance ot this ia given, in relation the 27th, in Glan'ril's
Collection, when one David Hunter, neat-herd to the Bilbop ot
Down and Connor, was for a long time haunted by the appuition
of an old woman, whom be was by a secret impulse obliged to fol-
low whenever she appeered, which, .he says, he did for a ooll&iderable
time, even if in bed with his wife ; and beeause bia.wife could llot
hold him in his b~, she w~uld go too, and walk at'ter him till dey,
though she law nothing ; but his little dog was so weD acquainted
1fith tlie:aPJN*(eioD, 'that be would follow has well·•lba muter•
. lt1fut...eod in'her walt, ·he obMnedlaer al_,.ae p41MNgh
• ·k. · Notwitbatailding this seaming immateriality, ~ T.ry Fo~t
--·- not without some aubetance; tor, having pedormed her
'' tl'lllll4, ·she '4ellred Bunttr to liA her fr.a :the s--1, ia the
4ohlg of whleb, lie lays, • .,.tea w~...,_,..,..........
n.;_rT<j .NPIP,..._~JII 'IJWJ -~llff!WM~·'r'J'Mt t;f!}
They C&!IDOt touch thOM otha th,iiiP tha~i*.J ;. -:l
. ,.,. F~.w~·~.ia ~uj:h'd, dlatmut betouch'd~
. ' .. Therefore, the lnaoaiona ofthose happy'pow'il ,I • -
·:.111~; '':M\i~ftie-aU I'Ar llillli-e, cliatinctftomOUd; ' ., ' ·-
:n· ·:rbfulltle BliNIM .Ufti.ble to tbelr OwJI ,,. · -: •
':· ,,, . - ·. . -
.(and, • ·.tile U,anslator _
quaintly adds,)
" AD which, by lODg cH.c:ouie, rn }itlm IIIOD."
Lucretius conceives that the various apparitions
of deceased friends are the subtle images which
constantly·riSe from the surfaces of all bodies,-
whicb make an impression on our organa of &eDSe,
and which, then, communicate this notion to the
soul. This opinion, strange as it is, entered more or
less into many systems on the same subject, which
·were taught by the schoolmen of the middle ages,
although the obligation due to Lucretius has not
generally been acknowedged. We detect a similar
view..in the reveries of the sympathetic pbileeo-
phers of the 18th century, and in the doctrine of
· the transmission of spirits, which was taught by
Lavater.* But, as I have no leisure at present to
. . .-- •. 1 -- Wo.e. ~.tbat.l(lllle ~pbtra ~~.fqr in.
-~--far~aatobelieft tlallt· ~·~CIIJ:P­
·**"- ~~lUI, wbo conceived that the ..._.,...jnh4bit-
ed by four kinds ofdemons, viz. apirita, llymphl, P.piel, ani\ala.
mandca, e18o.argucl t1teir aaterialiq. but tbouabt dley pel~~.-~
caro ..... -..-... Owhr•mam•ed die_lllateiWky otapp~~.
108 .'tNC&DOUPI'Y ()p.. ..WII.mPftOtl5i .
enter into a "riw ef ·these: Vf!r'1 lea.m'ett diiquisi-
tions, I must resign the·discussion ·to dtber-banda;
and, for this purpose, shall take the liberty of In-
troducing the gentle reader ro a set of very. modest
and unassuming poeumatologista, w~ ia the opi-
nions they advance on this same puzzling· subject
of spirits, only repeat the doctrines which· they ·
have heard from authority that none may ques-
tion. When the Gardener, in Addison's sprightly
comedy of the Drummer, inquires "how the spirit
gets into the house when all the gates are shut,"
·the following dialogue occurs:
Bllller. Why, leok ye, Peter, your spirit will creep you into all
.,..~ He'll whisk you through a by-hole, without ao
much as juatling against one of the wards.
Coach,_, I verily believe I saw him last night in the Town-
close.
Gardener. Bow did he appear?
Coaehfltlltl. Lib a white horae.
lltltUr. Pho, Robia, I tell you he hu nner ap,_ed yet, bat
in the lhape of the sound of a drum•
.Coachma~&. This almost makes one afraid of one'• own lhadow.
As I was walking from the stable t'other night without my JaD.
tem, I fell across a ,beam, and I thought I had atambled OTer a
~m~ .
...,., TUa mlpt'wtaswellhaveetumWellcmrulaw. WhJ
a epirit ie IRICh·a little, little thing, that, I have ·lleucl a ID8D who
wu a pt sellow say, that he'll dance ye a LaDcuhire bGmpipe
uppn the point ota needle.
\ ' j l . ·<' • •.. ,•.
O~Dml·JN·WBIQH·PHA.NT.£110 AB.ItB IOf
I tthaU _, ee~, u aa iDcipiet .eijeet·ia
tbe nat part of ·9111' i~, to dieoover the
exact order ·in 1l'bich a morbific eause acta 'lipiD"
ideas, wha, by ·l'elldering them as vi'rid aa let..!
impressions, i' sives rise to apectzal illusious.
I have before attempted to shew, thata morbific
cause, ia imparting a pleas\U'IIble 01' painful addi-
tion to the vividness of out feelings, poeaeues JlOo
thing more than a ~ in8ueace. Tbe
proper quality of our feelings is previously deter.
mined by natural objects of 8ell8ation, which, from
the various modes in which they act, give to the
dift'erent dispositions of mankind their peculiar
character, and, thereby, come tO be regarded in
the light of moral agents. If a morbific cause,
therefore, when operating on the states of the
mind, should be endowed for the time with a.plea-
surable power, it merely ringlu out (as it.were)
and vivifies all the sensations and ideas 1thieh are
of themselves naturally pleasurable, but bas no in-
fluence on feelings of an opposite quality ; and, 'Dice
versa, the same rule holds good with a morbific eause
capable of rendering painful feelings more vivid.
The law. by which ideas are renovated, is USU8.l-
.lr explamed by metaphysicians under: the name of
IUsociatidn. Thus, it is a law, that wheneveranysen.
saiitiri of a definite nature and quality is repeated,
it will be immediately followed by a renewal of the
feelings with which it was before associated, their
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
108 . PIIANT.UIIS AJU8E IN THE ORDER
. · ,,• .: . . ~ , ·; ' . . , •.. ·· ··- -~."!
repetition taking p~ ~bly to ·their prior or-
de.-.; ·TAt; n111Dber,GI;~.jt'aeif8"ifrhithi~J
diu ...'-i.a mciefidit.e;'aed ~Illy meetil.witlt:lia·n
telW}fticm·-~ some .new· ...,_-, . •11laap;rl
wid! it, ..ome D8W I tram of l'eJIDIV8ted ~ --~;
ideM. It '~~lay, thelefore, be -~-from a ~r;
fi.e.;;insftud ·in <die 15th volume..of Nicbo_..:.-
Philol9phiarl Jouraal (from .which I ~. befo~~e :•
!Qade 4 :bOge quotation), that when a morbiUa ·~
cau~e~ so ·
opaatea upou ideas, as to render them· a•t
v~d .aB actualimpreasioDB, the effect is pNMtiMIII ;
in the order of their natural auociation. ·" J,had..::
a Visit," says the writer, "from Dr C t'tD-'•
whOm, among other remarks" [relative tohis illlt..·c
sions], ~' I obaeJWed, that I then enjoyed the aatm..- ,
faction·.of having cultivated my moral habi~ a.od·. ;
particularly inhaving always endeavoured to avoid ;
beidg dle ~e of fear.-' I think,' said I, ' that·
this· a the' bnakiag ap of the system, and that it.
is 'nO'W' in progress to speedy destruction. In. this ·,
state, when 'the senses have become confused, -a:.
no longer tell me the truth, they still preseat ~'-'
with pl~g ~~tions, and ~y sufFerings are mi~i:­
gated by that calmness which allows me to find
..-.a.......m what -are probably the· ec>ada~
...mes ·of··~.'-1 give these self-con~.,~
wit1}6\kt.Scruvle~ more particularlybecause-theyJiil:>C
to~'.!z(~l1seiv~o!t: of faet w~ich desef"es ''lioti~(.:
~9PJ:JeE l.e.f.t.~1 ·lll1 relax~.•t~rJp~~~
J.. :~. . . . ..·'; . ., .
. . . ; .·. ~.
OP THE ASSOCIATION OP JD~ .109
. ~-.
~·- ... ,._~.Mel, ttCIIDe ·--·.... .
wan1a; i•teMl•of .a pJe.aqg ;~ a tieep4f fll-__.
w.e..,..appeaed, whidt·p~•.gqa·M:...._~
and ...-. me 118ft; bat it reDitUDed. dae a.1
time, ad*n gradually faded nay.-Thia imJae,.
diately awed me .the probability of - coe-
ne.ion betweea my thciughts aad ..thee .u..p.;
tar I ...-ibed tbe angry pbantaem to ·the pnel'tl
r.ae~ I Jwl fCli'Dled in con~~ n..
·C . • I recollected 101De ctiSqw.itiou ~
Loeke,.in hia Tr.ai8e on the Conduct of-theMia~~,
where·-h& ·endeawun.·to account for the appeu-
ance .of faces to penona ol nervous bal.u& It
Jee~Ded. to me, aa if faces, in all their modiJeationa,
~ 110 IIIIIIOCiatled with our recollections of the al.
fectiooa of puaiODS, would be moet likely to oliar
themtelves in delirium ; but I now tbongbt jt pl'O-
t.ble, thatotherobjects could be teen ifpteriCMJBly
meditated upoa. With thia motWe it w.- ~ I
re8eeted upon landeeapes and llcelle& of arcbi~\ll'·
11 gnaieur, while the f.- were Bulli.g .bfl(qre
~ .,...... pert .t.the ....... Mlllfk .. Dr o- ..........
.......OOIUIGioanfer? .Doeebeallude to ..~~ J~ ,.
-~~~yina "~CJilled beius the alan olj'eM1 In~-~ ,
I mut ~uppoee he meana, that the idea ol a man ~ hit
lite tJien'aroee in his mind; which idea aCterwarda retu~nJ,·i>e.' '1
-:llf':the1iYtfyl)lg operatiODolamorblftc Cll1de, Oiiaieii.ltatd'1
..............-
21.0. ORDEIJ:IN" WHWB PHANTASMS ARISE.
me; and '~ - & eertain ·eoneld~ble' mtervahlf
time, of which I can form no pteeise j~; a
ntr•l ·Jee~~er Oi hiDI; -.allies, imd' fields, ap~
beibre me, whiek ..
..._ aucceed.ed by anrith~r and ··
another ill ~ew IM:CeSSion ; the marmer and ·
times of their respectivetppearance, duratim, and
va.nialling; being not sensibly di1Ferent from thMe
of the faces. All tae scenes were calm and still,
without any strong ligbts or pe, and deHgbtfu1..
ly ealcul&ted to inspire DOtions of retirement; dC
tranquillity and happy medita~oJL"-The !8.ftie
writer adds in another place, " the figures nmmr-
ed, but now they eonsisted either of }x)oks, - oi'
parchments, or papers, containing printed tD&ttet.
I do not know whether I read any of them, but
am at present ·inclined to think they were either
not distinctly legible, or did not remain a suflkient
time before they vanished. I was now so weD
aware of the connexion of thought with their ap-
pearances, that by fixing my mind on the oomiider-
ation of manuscript instead of printed type, the
papers appeared, after a time, only with manu~
script writing ; and afterwards, by the same pro-
~, iasHad af·beiug erect, they were all in~,
or appeared upside downl' . .. .· !. rc ~!i\ "
This t"aae very satiSfactorily shows, thill a~~ ·
bi&...callle eiDgles,out ideas and vivifies theili in·* ·
na•:AIId.er ef..P.tion. Frequently• howe•er,
t~ law, by which spectral illu.ao...ar.iW, eem.ot: '·
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
UTBNT OF VlVU'IYDN A."OTION& ~11
be, 10 well de~, tile-~ Cor whiG it1ril be
myfui~un Q/Ued to pomt out.
~ .10 ll!'tisfactory. aD illultratiCIIi ol b ·6rder
in ~which :mo&'bi6c cauaes vivily ideas, the ;~
of!\his adiou ought next to be inv~.
lit, A morbific cauae may ~ert a transient
iniuence upon thought; or, after vivifYing cer-
tain ideas to the height ol actual impreeeioas, a
long .interval may occur before there is a recur..
renee of the illusion. Nicolai's 6nt spectral ~
pressiou-was of this kind ; its subject was that of
a deceased person, which, after haunting him for a
few moments, did not ·return until several hours
had expired.
!dly, A -
ntorbific cause of apecWilluaions may,
ftlil1 wry lUtle murmulion, inftuence ideas as
they occur in their natural order of association.
Thus, in a case recorded in the Paehyeology ol
Bonnet, a gentleman labollring under some mor-
bid aifectioa of the brain, saw, while awake, va.
rious figuree of animal-a, of human beings, of c~
riots, or of buildings all in motion, which would
su~vely approach towards him, recede and
disappur•. ; Bpt,"at t" same time, aumeroot ~· .
aations and ideas, unaffected in their ~ ·•
ol
vivi~ Q¥!t .Jw.ve ·oonstarttly interrupNd ·dlia
su~t:WI;)m' ~~ .impreaaions, otheiwi-.r.diei; .
jud~,~~lJ.l~:'~,ts the DMnlltit'e ~deuid..,.r. :
Sta~cM"::~L4nti~, ;.,-,. ' "' .•1 ( : ,. "L~ ;,;,:'.!
~·- Pll()P;&B. DU:..ll!fl"J:IO.N -9~ A.N ECSTASY.
Sdly, A morbific cause may, in its vivifying
action, extend to all sensations and ideas of some
definite quality, whether that quality be pleasu-
rable or painful. :To the indications of this gene-
ral action I have very frequently alluded, par-
aularly in.my description of tile eJfecte. Qn,AAe
mind of :the nitrous oxide and febrile ·miama.
Senaatiom and ideas are first proportionally in-
creased in their vividness ; afterwards, the fonner
.gradually become lees intense, while the l~!ter are
rendered as vivid as .actual impr.es.sion& The
effect of this extensive infiuence properly fallt
under the denomination of a traoce or ecataey,
which, more in conformity with the description of
noeologists, than in perfect justice to the latitude
of which the term is susceptible, I have befo,e
41escrlbed, as originatingfrom the joint influenceof
tbe nerv411 and cUculating system. But the t;futh
ia, ~ ap ~y or trance may be the re&Wt of
flAY stroog exciteJ?Uent of the mind frQm _w~­
.tV;er eource it JJJ~J.y arise, and ought ~dler ~ be
qQD&idered as .indicating the effect of an e~~
degree oi vivifying power, affecting in _
a geJl~
~' _.tiona_
and ideas, than be re.t.rlcf.t¥1 to
·:tbA~9nic character of ~yon«;·~­
,-.~ __ Jn~ more corr~ .e~ - -~~
~Jtbtq~'Pb~ ~ used in the. s~'bseqpept.pert fl
.41t)w~ . - - ,,
f -:_ .
.-----
.. ,
. LAWS OF SLEEP.
~lft - ~ 1 t i l.:
H : ; t ~ -: .} 1 • · ,
.\ .-:J..:·,. u t
··Jt.' ;_
CHAP. XVI.
'l'Blf·tLLUSIONS OF DRBAHS, AS DISTDiOVISJDD
~Jt()M THE SPECTRAL I.MPREaSIONS OF OtiJl
WAJUNG HOURS.
-----1talk of dreams,
Wlllch are tlle children ot an idle brain,
Besot at nothing but vain pbantuy,
Wbiah it u thin of aubatance u the air,
ADd more ineollltant than the wind.-~.
To:a.E is, perhaps, no one familiar with the vari-
ous apparition-stories which have, from time to
. time, been published, who ill not strongly inclined
'to sUspect that many of them are mere dreams.
Whether this conjecture be well-founded or not,
it is· often diflicult to determine. On this ac-
-cdllht, .it wm be necessary to investigate the phe-
1ihmena':of sleep with some degree of eare.
·''-'tii'Aieference to this inquiry, it may be -Oii-
"iei9~;~·that tbe excitability of the ssngUiileetis
·'it~da;~ 'Up<Sii 1Vhich the vividnestt of our m~
11ftk'\t~1'depends;has,'in a healthy oonditio~t'ohHe
system, its due limits. The pd'Ver-- ~
the blood of augmenting the heart's systole or
5
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
fl4 SENMTION~A.ND- IDEAS,::TBOUGH
diastole cunot be too long 'kept np: :i~ ;'a
certain degree of excitation, a tetid~neyis 'mOWil
to an opposite state of debility, when "the 'feetn\~
of the mind gradually d~ in their degree 'Of
vividness. Thus, there are periodical laws which
govern our hours of slumber, and which, at the
same time, are conducive to the regular exercise
of the important functions of assimilation.
SomephilollOphers have supposed, that, in sleep,
there is a temporary suspension ofthought; others,
(the Cartesians, in particular,) have much more
reasonably conceived that thought continues with-
out any intermtsston. For, upon the principle
inculcated by the late Dr Brown, that all our
mental feelings are nothing more than the mind
itself existing in different states, it is difficult to
imagine in what way this relation of the mind to
the body can possibly be suspended or dissolved,
as long as the vitality of our frame subsists.
When, likewise, it is considered, that we cannot
entertain the least conception of any other states
of the mind, than those which must necessarily
include sensations or renovated feelings, the hy-
pothesis becomes extremely plausible, that mental
feelings of this kind, though certainly of extreme
faintnells, do actually occur in sleep, or even
during deliquum.
This theory may be viewed in connenon with
certain states of the circulating system, upon
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
·- P~, -oecvJl.Dt .SUIIBP.< · flS
.~-- thoee of the mind depend. Tl.vividalaof
our-mental feelinga is regulated ,by the lon:e ad
d~ of each synole and diaatole of the hea-t.
Should these actiooa be too abort aad feeble, a
~rresponding faintnees in the aft"ections of the
mind is the result, as is the cue during the tre-
mulous, fluttering pul•tions which are character-
istic of syncope ; also, if objects of eeosation are
uniform in their impressions, the vividness of our
mental states will be no less diminished. Hence
the promotion of sleep by the unchanged feelings
of touch, which are induced by a horizontal posi-
tion of the body during rest ; hence, also, the som-
niferous effect of monotonous sounds. The conti-
nuation of sleep is likewise favoured by the exclu-
sion of all impressing objects of vision.
After these preliminary remarks, I shall at-
tempt a strict scrutiny of the states of the mind
peculiar to sleep, 88 they are to be distinguished
from those which occur during our waking hours.
According to the definition which I have given
of sensations, they are states of the mind induced
by objects acttuiiJy pruent, and acting upon the
organs of sense; while ideas are the renewals·of
past sensations. A question, then, which, 88 we
shall soon find, is most intimately connectec[wit.h
this inquiry, may be 88ked,-By what law we tlnm
arrive at our notions of the preaent and the pt»t 1
When, by the repetition of any sensation, those
118 .OaJGDf CW .JONI'AL OONICIOUBNE88
~~ are recalled with which tJley .......befGie
8110ciated, such put feelillga are reao\'8tied in a
less vivid state, aad hence '*)Wte the DaiDie'qf
tdeal ; that is, t.aagea of prior aeaaatiou. It is.
then, from Jiothiqg more than the comparative df-,
grees of vividness which distinguish seneatious and
ideas, that the mind becomes intuitively susqep-
tible of certain relative feelings of .tucCCiaion that
subeist between them ; which feelings of succession
we express by such terms as tke present and the
pan. This notion of a IUCCeaaion of mental states
is, in fact, acquired by an ultimate law of our na-
ture. The more vivid, or aenaihle affection is con-
templated as pruent to the mind, while the lu1
'tlivid; or ideal state, is considered as ptUt.
But itis essential to this knowledge ofIUCCUaton,
that it should, a~ the same time, bear a reference
to tlttJ ~ flft!te t7Md; and, accordingly, this
conviction is suggested, whenever we think of the
present and the past. The late Dr Brown was
the first to successfully explain this last mentioned
principle of the human intellect. " In all the va-
rieties of our feelings," he remarks, " we believe
that it is the same mind which is thus variously
afFected ;" or, as this metaphysician has elsewhere
explained himself, " that the mind, which is
capable of existing in various states, is felt by us
as one in all its varieties of feelings."-" The be-
lief flowa from a principle of intuition, and it is in
..
DEFINITION OF~ 1
ft7
~ tO' look·for etidence beyond.it. We _.e an
:=;ITesistiNe belief·in oar ideatity u long as. we
'-thmk-of t7ai pruent aDd lite pl181."" •
·- · ln ~espondence, then, with this view, I shall -
~mental consciousness as that intellectual
~'of- the mind auggestedt by a succession of
-!~sand renovated feelings, whereby it ac-
:.~i-tl'a notion f!fthe present and of the paat, and
-itf'iint"and the same mind, wkiclt i.Y capable tifex-
..\ .. . -·
'·fatiitg i11·a siu:cessimt f!f states. After this defini-
.-tlan, 'we shall be better prepared to consider what
-~ethe proper mental phenomena which distinguish
..Sleep.
I have already pointed out the extreme difli<:ul-
ty of supposing, thatthe relation which the imma-
terial principle of the mind bears to the human •
ft·ame, should be suspended during the periodical
repose allotted to the body. This relation con-
. sists in the mind being made susceptible of certain
successive states. As we can, therefore, conceive of
• Dr Brown, in his Physiology ot the HUJIWI MiDcl, likewise
remarks, that, " in accordance with the belief in our ldentily, we
use the peDODal pronoun I to e:r.pl'e88 the whole series _
of these
f'eelingt to one self as the permanent subject of them."
t This ia a very appropriate word, first used by Dr Brown. I
am aorry, however, that a difFerence of views on certain ·subjectll
wiD not always allow me to apply the tenn in the eDet sense iJI
which this eminent avthor meimt it should be aledo
~i18 SUSPENSION OF. OOX8CJOV$NE88.
ao suoeession of etateB, .
thlt Goe. aot neceearily
include aenaations and reo.ovated feelings, it ie oee-
tainly a reasonable hypothesis, .that, during· ~
momeots of slumber, actual impressions and ideas .
should occur, although in a state of extreme faint-
nee& But, 88 it must be, at the same time, grant-
ed, that there exists no mental consciousness dur-
ing sleep, we are now, I trust, aufficiently prepared
to overoowe any objections on this score to the
theory proposed. For, while it is almost impos-
sible to imagine, that duriag the vitality of the
body, such essential atates of the mind 88 eeo-.
tions and ideas should not occur ; there is not, on
the other band, the least difficulty in suppoaiog,
that a suspension may take place during sleep of
.that particular law of auggenion, which merely
furnishes the connecting liMa, 88 it were, that ~
perly subsist between those actual impressions
which arise by the organs of sense, and those re-
. novated feelings, or ideas, which the law of .._.
ciation calls forth. When the operation of this
connecting principle is for a time suspended, there
no longer arises that new description of feelmgs
which we express under the term C01U~ ·'
-there no longer arises that intuitive and intellec-
tual impl'ession ofthe mind relative to the preaent
and the past, as well as to the belief in its own
ideQ\ity.
Thus, then, we have endeavoured to estllblilh
-- :cAl18J;·Jllm~CI'NG SLBEP. -
tbt::doctJ!ine; ·that it. altl!p the orgtms of 8eiUJe are
8CHI•intpresaed, though faintly, by extemal objeeu,
tWt tlaat.feelings no leU ·faint become the proper
sUites uf •the mind ;-alao,- that past feelings·are
nMbvated agreeably to the law of aMOCiation,
though in a state far less vivid, when oompared
with those which occur during our waking h0urs.
Our im'estigation, therefore, now becomes limited
w this sole object,-to determine under what cir-
eumsQlnces that particular law is suspended, -where-
by the mind begins to lose all knowledge of the
present and of the past, as -well as of its own iden-
tity ; or, in other words, our proper businG&S is to
inqUire, Under what circumstances mental uncon-
lcitJuMtesl takes place ?
Upon the approach of sleep, all organs of sense
beeotiM! less and less afFected by their usual stimuli ;
and, with this diminution of sensibility, the degree
of vi.-idness in our mental aft'ections keeps an uni-
f«m pace. But it is an important fact, that sen-
Mtions and ideas are each susceptible of different
utremes of faintness. Ideas cannot, by any know
catifseS, be i-endered so faint as actual impressiOns ;
they, therefore, much !JOOiler than sensations, .,.
quire their own definite and extreme degNe 'of
faiDtness. It follows, therefOFe, that tJw·:tafMM
witch Mduce.t the 8tate t!f'81eep, is kJ be ~
411 " ClltUJe tetul.ing to mt.ike 1emattom more.fiMM
IAlaatdetu. ,,, ·
!lOO LAW REGARDING CONSCIOUSNESS.
The knowledge ofthis law is ofthe utmost impOrt-
ance in all our inquiries relative to the phenome-
na of sleep. But, first, it may be remarked, that
if the cause of sleep render sensations more faint
than ideas, it must evidently happen, that, in the
course of this transition, sensations will, at some in'-
terval of time, arrive at the same degree of faint-
ness as ideas. When, therefore, it is considered,
that the human mind can form no notion of the
present and the past, but from the comparative de-
gree of vividness which, during our waking hours,·
subsists between sensations and ideas, and that the
notion of present and past time necessarily e~tets
into our definition of consciousness, it must follow,
that when the cause of sleep has reduced sensations
to the same degree of faintness as ideas, a state of
mental unconsciousness must necessarily be the re-
sult.
There are, still, other circumstances to be taken
into consideration concerning sleep. A certain de-
gree of vividness in our various feelings, is ne-
cessary to the production of mental consciousness ;
or, in other words, consciousness cannot be indu-
ced after the states of the mind have acql.tired-a
certain extreme degree of faintness. From the
operation, then, of this law, which 'takes pl~
\vbile the cause that induceS sleep is tending: to
make sensations more faint than iaeas, that state
of unconsciousness, which ·results from an unifor.:!
1
:
I
CAUSES OF DREAMS. 2fll
mity of vividness in sensations and ideas, becomes
so fa.r prolonged, as to include in its duration the
usual period of sound and healthy repose.
During the particular interval, when sensations
are becoming more faint than ideas, so powerful is
the agency of sleep, that, as we well know, very
strong impressions made upon the organs of sense
often fail in imparting to the afFections of the
mind, that degree of intensity upon which watch-
fulness depends. Ideas, on the contrary, after
having undergone a certain extreme degree of
faintness, cease much sooner than sensations to be-
come obnoxious to the power of sleep. . We must,
therefore, at present contemplate sleep, as chiefly
employed in enfeebling sensations, while ideas, or
renovated feelings, are less under its influence.
This investigation will, I trust, prepare us to
theorize with far greater facility on the subject
of dreams.
The causes of our most common dreams have,
during our waking hours, an inferior influence
in rendering more vivid the states of the mind.
They are, for instance, connected with such tri-
vial affections as indigestion, or with the remis-
sions of inflammatory or febrile attacks, where a
repose, more or less disturbed by visions, is af-
forded to t."te wearied frame. In sleep, therefore,
such causes have little p<>wer in increasing the vi-
vidness of sensations. For, it is but too evident,
,,,, e' ,,Google
.-.
\h~t.'if ' tbe ~rglins of sense were capable ~( ·~
'.aifected by · slight stimuli, our states ·of repose,
which are so important to the functions of assnni.
'Iatiori, would be materially interrupted. Ideas,
however, which are mbre removed from the en-
feebling influence of sleep, are, in a greater de.
gree, liable to be affected by causes, that impart
,tO our mental affections various degrees of vivid-
ness.
I shall now obse'rve, that when, by some c'a011e
afFecting the state ofthe circulation, the idea:s ofim-
perfect sleep have been excited to a certain degree
of vividness, the mind then acquires a knowledge
of the present and the past, and of its own iden-
tity ; or, in other words, consciousness begins,
and, with it, the state of dreaming. It will,
therefore, be a very interesting research, to ascer-
tain, what may be the modifications which the
usual phenomena of the mind undergo, from tile
operation of those laws that more immediately re-
late to consciousness?
We must once more recall our attention to the
. principle so fully demonstrated, that the usual
co~parative degree of vividness which subsists be-
...r, t ' ' I I 'to '
, tw~n ·segsattons ·and ideas, alone suggests the ~
) ; •l J Jt l ·:·: I l '
JiQtt ,.<>( P,re,yent and pa&t time·; the more -ririd
.._. .. ) "· / ' . . . .
rtl~J1mL~~i~$iconsidered as present, and t'He)t!ss
,_.vtvi<J__f~~rig? 9r ideil, ~ing contemplated~Jli*.
·lf6i~ law, in faet, continues to operate, :after ·toe-
SLEEPING N,:fP WAXING VISIONS. tt8
~ feelings.alone have become the subject of
GQ.QSCi,ousness. When, therefore, it is consideQlel,
t~ ideas of themaelves partake of various degrees
gf vividn~, it must be evident, that in our
dreams the more vivid idea would be contemplated
as a pruem feeling, while the least vivid one
would be considered as paat. By this means, va.
rious recollected images of the mind protrude
themselves, as it were, from the train of thought
going on, and though fainter than eensations, have
still the power of suggesting a falee conviction of
actual impressions.
In reference to the same law of consciousness,
may be explained the illusions of those spectral
impressions which occur during our waking hours.
That principl~ in our nature by which mental
feelings of various degrees of vividness suggest a
uotion of the presentand of the past, is continually
influencing the mind.; hence, the moment that
.ideas become more vivid than sensations, they are
contemplated as present, or as actual impressions;
while the least vivid feeling suggests the notion of
past time.
The partial resemblance of· spectral impreasiou
~dreams, will now, I trust, be sufficiently appa-
~, rent. There is, still, a difference to be noticed
. ~ the circumstances under which they are seve.
.r:a:lly produced. . Before spectral impressions·ean
,ariJe,. the vivid ideas of our waking hoUri mpst
' . I
- SLEEPING AND WAKIN& VISIONS
be raiSed to an unusually high degree ofintensity ; .
but·during our moments of mental repose, avery
slight degree of vividness imparted to the faint
ideas of perfect sleep, is sufficient to excite a simi-
lar illusion. Hence, the images of spectral impres-
siORs dift'er from those of dreams in being much
more vivid.
Not unfrequently, however, it happens, that an
exciting cause may so gradually, yet powerfully
operate upon·the ideas of our dreams, as to make
them more than usually intense. It must follow,
then, that in this peculiar state, they will be with
difficulty distinguishable from the spectral impres-
sions of ecstasies. or trances. . This is accordingly .
the case ; nor can the difFerence between a sleeping
or a waking dream be often well determined hy
any inquiry we may institute,-if the illusion
supervellled to a state of absolute sleep, or of \Vatch-
fulness.r An instance of this uncertain species of
phantasms is contained in the narrative translated
by Dr Crichton, from the Psychological Magazine·
ofGermany, and from which I have before made an
extract (page 106), relative to a female who was
_
subject to trances. She is the narrator of her own.
cas&!;~ and·, after describing some cruel usage she
expaienced from her husband, which much affect-
ed the quality of her spectral impressions, she thus
proeeedf~ 'My sorrows increased, and I went
to ~'.lit teuts,J ' 'l awakened about four o'clock
, z;i~ -EASUiY. DIBTINQUiilfi:DJ ~-'!;
in.UJe ~9rniug, and imagined mvself iri my fathers..
h~'J!!C on the river Diele. I looked up into ·
heaven, and saw a water-dog walking in the fir.
mament~ As soon as it passed by' the skies .de-
scended to me, and my eyes were changed on
purpose to see new sights, for I saw many hwi-
dred thousand miles. The mansion of God stood
in the centre, lightly enveloped in dear blue cloud~
and surrounded with a splendour of such various
colours as are unknown to the world below. Iri
each colour stood some millions of men, enrobed
in garments of the same colour with that in which
they stood ; for instance, those who stood in red
were clad in red, and those in the yellow had robes
of yellow ; and the faces of all these men were
turned to the mansion of the Almighty. And
there came out of the mansion a most lovely fe-
male, clothed in the brightest lustre of heavea, and
a crown on her head. She was accompanied by
three angels, one on her right hand, and one on
her left, the third walked beside her, and pointed
out the crowd who stood in the splendid coloW'S.
" In a minute the heavens were closed, &Dd
again opened as formerly, but the woman and
ange~ were. not to be seen ; but our blessed· Sa-
vio~ came out of the mansion, followed by.a .lonfr;.·
train of. attendants, and he descended f.hrough.aB: :,
the ~ltmdour I have described. The LoPd.ancHti&ut':
atte~dants all looked smilingly upon JQe. TU,. ••
J:i
•'it6 SLBBi'IE:fiU:~w..mRfl.nBIDNS
.were dre.ad ·in·...iaad.. wlierner ·~ : tNbt
. 'Walla·elear white; WheaJte appmocbld me .-r
.C!lllabgli~ taat I could:topab.his· ~.I was higllt..
.eaed :and a~e.• · It· was thea..bal£.past .Nar
:o1olodc:; ·I a~· and ~aonaidawl then my.,-..t
life was·not to be eompued with audt,joys.,
·With regard to ·tae. foregoing illusioD, il·is im-
posaib)e 11o say whethet- it wu a Tety viTid·dnam
or ra traooe;. most probably it was the former.
··The diatiftetioa, however, is of litlle·consequeaee,
aso t&.e same eauses which contribute to the·specttal
impressions of our waking visiou· may· prochtee
intense dMams.
Another authentic story, respecting which there
is a doubt whethew it is the narrative of a li.ely
dream or of a waking illusion, is to be fuuad: 'm
Bovefa Ptmtlemon~ CYT the Dm/'8 Clog#W.
The writer first infol'Jil8. us, that about the -y:ear
1667, " he was with some persons of honOUI" in
the house of a nobleman in the west country, whieh
had formerly been a nunnery ;., he then contimiea
his nanative after-the following manner:-" l"
m\lllt
ooafess, I had often beard.the eervuts and. others
' that inhabited·or lodged there, speak muchtrof· tthe
noiS~ea, stirs, and apparitions, that frequently. dia-
.turW the boUle, bat had at that time ~ aptn-
'I J· t. !', ·. ,·
,, " ..,
• The :writer evidently means that she a.oke out of her trance,
u die bas before spoken of aw~kening froni h.;.. a1eep. ' . '
....... ol it; fru.. the' ~·being .r.n rif .....
·1 ~ the ~'s stewal'tl, Mr C., la.y.witla·me
.ilt ·a &e waiosooat room, called my lady'a ~
.be.r. We went to om lGtlging ~early, .ad
··~ a good ire mthe·1100m, we tpeat some
time in readbag, U. which he muoh delighted; then
.haTing got into bed, and put out the C&lldles, " we
obeerved th& room to be very ~ by the brigh~
ness of the moon, so that a w~r was Jaicl between
tu, that it was possible fo read written hand by
that light upon the bed where we lay. .A.coonl-
ingly., I drew out of my pocket a muuacript,
which he read distinctly in the plac:e wbere he lay.
We bad seareely made an end of diseounmg about
that aft'air, when" [here probalilg ~ 4
~],"I saw (my face being towards the door,
which was locked) entering into the room, five ap.
pearances of very fine and lovely women; they
were of excellent stature, and their dresses seemed
very fine, but covered all but their faces with •
their ligh& veils, whoa& skirts trailed lal-gely oa the
·Soar. They entered in a file, oae after the othe1;
.and U.that posture walked round the room, till the
ftrim911t came and stood by that side of the ·bed
aeft<I I.y, with my )eft hand over the sid8ef U.e
bed; fGr my head rested on that ann, ani .I de-
tennined not to alter the posture in which I wa&
She struck me upon that hand with a blow that felt
very soft, but I did never remember whether it
.--..
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
·~~ SLEEPING ANl'>iWAKING_VISIONS
were cold or hot. I demanded, in the Dame of the
·blessed Trinity, what business they had there, but
received no answer. Then I spoke to Mr C., Sir,
do you see what fair guests are here come to yisit
us ? before which, they all disappeared. I foun~
him in some kind of agoBy, and was.forced to·graap
him· on the brea,st with my right hand (which·was
next him underneath the bedcloaths) before I could
obtain speech of him. Then he told me, that he
had seen the fair guests { spoke of, and had heard
me speak .to them ; but withal said, that he was
not able to speak sooner unto me, being extremely
afFrighted at the sight of a dreadful monster, which,
assuming a shape between that of a lion and a bear,
.attempted to come upon the bed's foot. I told
him, I thanked God, nothing so frightful had pre-
sented itself to me ; but I hoped, through his as-
llistance, not to dread the ambages of hell."
Of these visions, the subject of which may be
attributable to the popular superstitions of the-old
nianor-house; little doubt can be entertained but
that by fear, and perhaps by other physical causes,
they were impressed on the mind during a dream.
It appears, that during the next night, the -eGM-
panion of Bovet, from dread, forsook the hMmtild
·room, so that the hero was left by hi~lf to ·en-
.counter the apparitions. · " I ordered," he ad4t;,
" a Bible and another book to be laid in .the .room,
and resolved to spend my time by the fire in read-
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google ··"
.
•• • -~r. • ,
NOT E.ABILY DI8TINGUI6HEI>. - a9
ingand in contemplation, till I found.myself inclin-
ed to sleep; and, accordingly, having taken lea-ve of
the family at the usual hour, I addressed myself
to what I had proposed; not going into bed till
past one in the morning. A little after I was got
into bed, I heard somewhat walk about the room,
like a woman in a tabby gown trailing about the
room. It made a mighty rushelling noise, but I
could see nothing, though it was near as light as
the night before. It passed by the foot of the bed,
and a little opened the curtains, and thence went
to a closet door on that side, through which it
found admittance, although it was close locked.
There it seemed to groan, and to draw a great
chair with its foot, in which it seemed to sit, and
tum over the leaves of a large folio, which, you
know, make a loud clattering noise. So it con-
tinued in that posture, sometimes groaning, some-
times dragging the chair, and clattering the book
.till it was near day ; afterwards I lodged several
times in this room, but never met with any moles-
tation.••
Regarding this latter apparition, Dr Ferriar is
mclined to think, that it did not oecur during a
dream, but that it was a proper waking illusion.
This supposition is, however, very doubttl!l, as the
. spectral impression ensued after the gh011t-~
had found .himself inclined to sleep.
CHAP. .XVII.
THE EFFECT OF :M,ENTAL EXCITEMENTS UPON
CONSCIOUSNESS. .
- - - - - - " What is mortal man?"
So changeable his being, with himself
Diesimilar ; the rainbow of an hour I-
A change of coloul'll, transient through his life,
Brigbteae or languishes ;-then fades to air.
T.W.p1cm'• Progru• ofSkbN1.
B&FORE explaining a very important law ef tbe
mind relative to consciousness, which is materially
·connected with the object of the present disserta-
tion, I shall briefly glance at the progress that
has been made in the metaphysical part of this
inquiry.
S.U.tions and ideas having been coosideted as
nothing IDOI'e than states of the immaterial mU;t.d,
I proceeded.upon the hypothesis, that, as long ·as
.vi~y ·&\lbsisted, a succession of such~ even
during.aynoope and sleep, was continually recUI'·
ring. It was next shewn, that the comparative
LAW OJ' DN'fAL VIVIDNB88. !81
degree of vividneu which subsists between sena.
tions and ideas, suggests to the mind the intel-
lectual feelings of the preeent and ol the paat ;
~ along with this relation of time, the identity
of one mWl, as existing in a succession of state&;
and, that when ideas are rendered more vivid
than sensations, a revival of past feelings is con-
templated as·the result of actual impressions. A
further observation was made, that the notion of
the present and of the past, as well as of the pro-
per identity of the mind, necessarily enters into
our definition of comcioumus; and that mental
CODSCioumess can not be induced until sen~
tions and ideas have attained a certain degree of
vividness. Hence, the unconsciousness attending
the faint impressions of sleep. It was also pointed
out, that a morbific agent capable of exciting the
feelings of the mind, exerted a specific power
OTel' some particular quality of the feelings; and
t1tat it could only impart a definite addition ot
pleasure or pain to feelings, which, from the pa-
ra~ount influence of moral agents, were of them-
selves either pleasurable or painful.
The la-w, then, to be explained is this: Wlten a
Jmtwbijic agent add8 to the general vit:JilMtu wour
~raiJle feelings, every .foeling '!/' an opptJ~ile
orpam.fol qualit!J, is in an inverse propurt«m ren-
dered le8lt '8ivid ; and, vice versa, tke 4tl'me law
~~ PLEASURABLE EXCITEMENTS JND'!JQING
. _. '
holda.good when a marbific agent adds· to llte f!i. . ,
vid-ness flfalJ owr painful feelings. - .
It follows, then, that as consciousness is..never.
excited until sensations and ideas have attain~ a
certain degree of vividness, the intensity impart--
ed .to pleasurable states of the mind may be ·so
great, that, from the extreme of faintness to which
affections of an opposite quality will. be propor-1
tionably reduced, every mental consciousness of.
painful feelings may be destroyed. And, in .like
manner, the action of a morbific agent,. when in.
tensely exciting all our painful affections,. may, in
the course of its operation, annihilate every con-
sciousness of pleasurable emotions. I need scarce-
ly remark, how well this general effect is displayed
in the actions of the gases to which I have so
often alluded. Under the influence of the nitrous
oxide, an inhaler is conscious of no feelings but
those which impart to him delight. ·While un-
der the influence of the febrile miasma, every
blissful emotion is stifled in the overwhelming de-
jection which ensues.
This law, by which mental consciousness is regu-
lated, meets with an ample illustration in the eff-ects
1mparted to our various feelings, by many of the
morbific causes of mental vividness which I have
enumerated. That peculiar cause inducing in-
sanity, for instance, which is referable to a highly-
excited state Of the sanguine temperament, gives
UNCONSCIOUSNESS OF PAIN. 2SS
an ·additional degree of vividness to the plea.surable
feelings of the mind; hence impressions of pain
are so proportionally enfeebled, that the mental
consCiousness of them is-not excited. This fact is
exemplified in those individuals, who, according to
Burton, "are commonly ruddy of complexion, and
high-coloured, who are much inclined to laughter,
witty, and merry, conceipted in disoourse, pleasant,
if they not be too farre gone ;" who, if they should
happen to take such a delight in dramatic scenes
as tlie maniac recorded by Aristotle, are amused
the whole day long with imaginary actors. The
cause of the symptomatic fever, named hectic, like-
wise exerts the power of imparting so grateful an
addition of vividness to our pleasurable feelings,
as to render ·the mind unaffected by painful emo-
tions. · Thus, in Phthisis Pulmonalis, how elo-
quently, yet faithfuUy, has a late eminent medical
practitioner, Dr Parr, described the unconscious-
ness ofpain, which, in the face of the most im~i­
nent and fatal symptoms, enables the patient to soar
above despondency. " In the advanced stages,"
he remarks, " the irritation of the cough is inces-
sant, the' heat or perspiration almost constantly
distreSsing, and when these are absent, tM lifle ··.
seems :exhausted from debility. What, then, 81- ··
fords·tire cheering ray of expected relief? Stich, "
howev'ei-, is afforded, for ingenuity invents e\rery '
fallacious mode of eluding inquiries, and of giving
ifl4 PLEASULUI&UCIT.EMENTS.
the moet favQQl'&ble view of every sympt.Q• . The
patient sinks to the·gra"'e with the eoutaD1l assur-
ances of having attained greater strength, sod a
relief from every dangerous symptom ; with eager
expectations of another year, when lite is limited
by another day. · Such, we would say, is the kind
interposition ofProvidence, was the same cheerful-
ness found in every disease, and was not, in many,
the gloom as distressing to the patient as the ill-
founded expeetation of the consumptive victim ia
to the well-informed anxious friend. This cheer-
fulness is said to be owing to the absence of pain ;
but pain is not always absent : and the difficul~
of breathing, the incessant cough, the burnillg
heats, the deluging perspirations, would appeM
worse than the most poignant pain. Yet these are
disregarded, represented as triBes,,lessened in the
report to the most inconsiderable ipconvenienciea :
it is truly singular."*
Sometimes, however, the consumptive patient,
instead of being cheered with the illusive hope of
returning health, indulges himself in the p~
of a blessed immortality, the scenes of which illl..
mediately rise befure him, with all the vivid co~
ing that a hectic aifection is so capable of im~
~ to the images of fancy:-
_______________...._ ·;;
• Parr's .Loadlla llf~ J)jctionary, vol. iL p. 388.
' '·_," W'1ult ecena dieeloee tliemleln. f, what fieWs ofjoy ! ·
- J. ~ rivereet' delight ! wlaa soJda bowen.
.. .Sweetly opp-'cl with batific viewa,
,. l 'hear angelic inatrwnenu, I see
Primeval anlours, and essential forma ;
The aona ot' light, but ot' eteated light,
All energy, the diligence of God !
Might I but join them I Lmd your glittsiug 'lfiDBs,
W11ft 111e, 0 quickly walt me to yon crown I
Bright with the flaming - of tbe zone
Sidereal: Gracious they beckoning smile,
They smile me to the ekiea ! Hope leada the -Y·"•
I shall now consider the effect of those morbi-
Be agents, which exert a contrary influence on the
·states of the mind ; which impart an additional
degree oE vividness to painful id~ and thereby
render proportionally faint all feelings ofa pleasur-
able nature. When from a highly-excited state
of the melancholic temperament, a paroxysm of
actual insanity is induced, the hideous phantoms
incidental to it are not to be dispelled by the
~vidness of a single pleasurable emotion. " This
~rogresse of melancholy," says Burton, " yon
Shall easily observe in them that have been so
Sl'ected ; they goe smiling to themselves at first,
lit length they laugh out ; at first solitary, at last
they can endure no company ; or if they doe,
they IP'e nQw dizards, past sense and shame, quite
- PA~NFUL EE!T.BIIENTS ·INDUCING
moped; they .are .not what they say or doe, all
their actions, words, gestures, are furious or ri-
diculou.S. Upon a sudden, they whoop and hol-
low, or run away, and sweare they see or heare
players,• divells, hobgoblins, ghosts, strike or
strut, and grow humorous in the end." The same
writer, speaking of persons "melancholy a toto
corpore," observes, " that the fumes which arise
from this corrupt blood, disturbe the minde, and
make them fearful and sorrowfull, heavy-hearted
as the rest, dejected, discontented, solitary, silent,
weary of their lives, dull and heavy. And if
farre gone, that which Apuleius wished to his
enemy, by way of imprecation, is true in them·;
dead men's hl>nes, hobgoblins, ghosts are ever in
their mindes, and meet them still in every tume :
all the bugbeares of the night and terrors, and
fairy-babes of tombes-and graves are before their
eyes, and in their thoughts."
The foregoing remarks of this very accurate
describer of the symptoms of melancholy, but too
well shew, how completely the undue excitement
of.painful ideas can reduce to an unconscious de-
gree of faintness all joyous thoughts. " Petrus
Forestus," continues Burton, " hath a feareful
• Probably the lrighliul lhapel ot diiiUIII8 repreeented in liD·
cient myateriea.ue hare alluded to.
UNCONSCIOUSNESS OF PLEASURE. i87
e:umple of a minister, that through precise fasting
iu.·Lent, and overmuch meditation, became des-
perate, thought he saw divells in his chamber, and
that he eould not be saved. He smelled nothing,
as.he said, but fire and brimstone, and was al-
ready in hell, and would aske them still, if they
did not smell as much. I told him he was melan-
choly, but he laughed me to scorne, and replied
that bee saw divells, talked with them in ·good
earnest, and would spit in my face, and aske me
if I did not smell brimstone."'
But a story of this kind, far more interesting,
is. related by Pinel, of a young gentleman, en:-
dowed with a most vivid imagination, who came
to Paris to study the law. His application was
said to have been laborious and painful in the
extreme,. the consequence of which was, that,
along with frequent bleeding at the nose, spas-
modic oppressions of the chest, wandering pains of
the bowels, and a troublesome flatulence, he was
seized with great depression of spirits, and a
morbidly enervated sensibility. These symptoms
daily increased, until, as a French physician adds,
"..oomplete lunacy at length established its melan-
choly~empite. One night, he bethought himself ·
that he would go to the play, to seek relief from his
o:wn unhappy meditations. · The piece which was
presented, was '-The Philosopher witaovt know-
ing it.' He · was instantly seized wilh the most
iS8 PAINFUL EXCIT:S!IENTS,
gloomy suspicioDS, and. especially with a ®llvic.-~
tion, that the comedy was written on purpose ~
represented to ridicule himself. He accuStd me.
with having furnished materials for the writer of.
it, and the next morning he came to reproach me,·
which he did most angrily, for having betrayed
the rights of friendship, and exposed him to pub.
lie derision. His delirium observed no bounds.
Every priest and monk he met in the public walks
he took for comedians in disguise, despatched there'
for the purpose of studying his gestures, and of
discov-ering the secret operations of his mind. In
the dead of the night he gave way to the most
terrific apprehensions,-believed himself to be at-
tacked sometimes by spies, and at other times by
robbers and assassins. He once opened his wiD-
dow with great violence, and cried out .murder
aftd assistance with all his might.,.
It is evident, that, in the foregoing example~
the morbific cause of the young gentleman's in..
sanity had imparted such an additional degree of
vividness to his painful feelings, as to render all
pleasurable thoughts so proportionally faint, that
a perfect unconsciouSDe88 of them ensued. A ge-
neral gloom, therefore, darkened all his re6ections
and emotions.
The continuation of this patient's case has no
immediate relation to the object of our inquiry,
yet its interest is too great to lJe ~. ·It ,._
!
ALTERNATIONS OF·PL£A8UJlE AND PAIN. 239
pta!'~~ that tlte youug man waa sent, under the
~ of a proper pe~n, to an asylum be-
laMgihg to a little village in the vicinity of the Py-
ri!fteeB. · " Greatly debilitated both in mind and
body,"' continues Pinel, " it was some time after
agreed upon that he should return to his family
1!88idence, where, on account of his paroxysms of
d.nrious extravagance, succeeded by fits of pro.
foand melancholy, he was insulated from society.
lbmui and insurmountable disgust with life, ab-
sOlute refuMI of food, and dissatisfaction with
every thing, and every body that came near him,
were among the last ingredients of his bitter cup.
To conclude our affecting history, he one day
etaded the vigilance of his keeper, and, with no
otfler garment on than his shirt, fled to a neigh-
bouring wood,- where he lost himself, and where,
(rom weakness and inanition, he ended his miseries.
Two days afterwards be was found a corpse. In
his band was the celebrated work of Plato on the
Immortality of the Soul"•
I shall next make a few remarks on those mor-
bifie agents, which, when exerting a very powerful .
influence over the states of the mind, have the ef-
fect of alternately increasingthe vividness of plea-
surable and painful feelings. 'l'he natural eonse-
• , 1.;
!40 ALTERNATE EXCITEMENTS
quence of this action·is, that the unconsciousness of
grateful and ungrateful ideas undergoes a corre-
sponding alternation. Alcohol possesses a subor-
dinate influence of this kind. The nitrous oxide·
shews this eft'ect more decidedly when its action is
carried on .to an extreme height. In the experi.
ment made upon the American student, the rela-
tion of which has been given in page 186, it is said,
that "overpowered by the intensity of the feelings
the paroxysms .induced, his feelings vibrated be-
tween perfect happiness and the most consummate
misery." To a particular preparation of 'opium
used in the East, the power is ascribed not only of
rendering the mind by turns unconscious of plea-
sure or of pain, but of eventually inducing proper
ecstatic illusions. The traveller Chardin, while
recounting the efFects of a certain drink prepared
with a decoction of the head and seeds of the
poppy, remarks, that " there is a decoction" [of
this kind]" called C~r, for the sale of which
there are taverns in every quarter of the town, si-
milar to cofFee-houses. It is extremely amuSing to
visit these houses, and to observe carefully those
who resort there for the purpose of drinking it,
both before they have taken the dose, before it be-
gins to operate, and while it is operating. .On
. entering the tavern, they are dejected, sad, and
languishing ; soon after they have taken two or
three cups of this beverage, ·they are·peevish, and
&F PLBASUltE AND PAIN. ftl
ii'nd· fault with every thmg, and q\larrel with
-one anoth~r ; but in the course of its operation;
they make it up again, and each -
one giving hinl-
self.up-to bis predominant passion, the lover speaks
-sweet things to his idol ; another, lialt-aaleep,
laughs inhis sleeve ; a third talks big andblusters ;
a fourth tells- ridiculous -stories ; in one word, a
-person would believe himself to be really in a mad-
house. A kind of lethargy and stupidity suceeeds
to this unequal and disorderly gayety ; but the ,
-Penians, far from treating it as it deserves, call it
an ecstasy, and maintain that there is something
supernatural and heavenly in this state. As-soon
as the effect of the decoction diminishes, each one
retires to bis oWn house."
That peculiar insanity which is connected with
a _sanguine temperament presents similar pheno-
mena. Patients of this kind " vary," says Burton,
" upon every object heard or seen. If they see a
stage-play~ they run upon that a week after; ifthey
hear music or see dancing, they have nought but
bagpipes in their bl-ains ; if they see a combat, they
are all for arms; -if abused, an abuse troubles them
long after ; if crossed, that cross. Restless iR
thoughts, and continually meditating. More like
dreamers than men awake ; they wake as othen
dream, and such, for the most part, are their imagi-
D&tions and conceita ; absurd, vain, foolish toys,
y«. ~ey are moet curious andsolicitous continually.
L
1M ALTERNATIONS OF IUA.SUBB AND PAIN.
A. seriau io • toy • it were aiROit JMCeiUl'Y lma-
WtM of 8f'eal m~. a.ad etiU. thillk.iJw of it.
Though they do·vMk·widl. you, and seem t.o 1te
other1riee employed, ~ to your tllinking vety ~
tent .aJid .busy, atill that toy rona in tlair m.iDd,
tlvstfear, llat ~' Mal abuae, tkot ~
1/tat caatk in Ule air, that plell8flmJ.-'""6' dream,
whatever it is."
From the last passage of Bw:too!s description
it is evic:lent, that when there is an inten~~e exc~
JIUUU: of,the sanguineous temp¢rament, ple8$Urable
ad painful feelings become alternately aft'eewd by
the undue vivifying influence. During t.be ~r­
val that pleasurable feelings are :re.dered in~,
there is a perfect unoonsciowmeiiS of pajnful feel- '
·.int~Je ; aDd (rice veraa) during the•.-val.U.t_~
pate- or pt.inful feel:ings ate eJti!iWd, t.._~t.A
..-u. uDCOnsciousnesa el plaMirabJe f~ - .,·
.• . - ~
. ' .
. . . !.~ '!• . L..'.;<lt
·. . ·'. ~ -> .- ~:• 11~
.·iJ .. · ·, ··::,. ·t()f ~fiJI n~
:: _
... :
':;. f , •
CHAP. XVIII.
81:JJDIARlr CM' 'fBE COM.PAB.ATIV.& DIGUBS. .QI
FAINTNESS. VIVIDNESS, OR INTENSITY SUBS~T.
ING BETWEEN SENSATIONS AND IDEA$ DURING
THEIR VARlOUS EXCITEMENTS AND DEPRES.
SIONS.
" The difllculty is tllis :-Consciousness being interrupted always
by forgetfulness, there beinr no moment of our liftS wherein
we han tha whole train of our paet ldiooa bei'cJN our ey• in
oae 'fiew; hilt even the beat memoriee bini the lisht of ene
pa4'lwhile t1u1J are.viewing another." Locq.
THE JteXt proper object of our inquiry is to
inve.tigate eertain phenomena relative to Con-
scioumess-, which are manifested dnring tbe e;x..
citements= and depressions to which the feelings oC
the mind are conatantly aubject. The success of
thi• investigation, however, must depend upon a
•tatement of the proportional difference whieh
. subaiata between IJell&ation and ideaa d~ their
-.arioua transitions from faintness to ~y,
« from intensity to faintness. But it is alm01t
unnecessary to· add, regarding a pbysiologia!l
illquiry of this kind, that it is a problem which
c;an Dftel' be satislaetcuily acrompliabed: yet if, ·
after all, for the mere·lllke of gt'Mtel' ~.,
i
u.4i ftANSITIONS OF MENTAL STATES.
I ahould be induced to attempt a sort of tabular
view of the various degrees of vividness to which
our mental feelings are liable, it can have no other
claim to regard, than as a formula, which, in the
language of mathematicians, is empirical, or pure-
ly experimental. It is, in fact, a result obtained ·
by repeated trials, the effect of which is rather to
give an artificial consistency to certain succesaiona
of mental phenomeDa, than to produce the con-
viction, that the formula is in every respect agree-
able to truth and to nature.
In reference, then, to the annexed tabular
sketch of the various proportional degrees of vivid-
nets subsistingamong sensations and ideas, no fewer
than fifteen of such degrees are supposed to exist ;
these be\ng represented on an ascending scale by
horizontal lines. The lowest of such lines, marked
l, denotes the faintest state of our mental feelioga,
while the highest in the series, marked 16, repre-
sents the most excited condition of them.
The vertical linea by which the horizontal ones
are intersected, dispose the various degrees of vi-
vidness thus represented, into eight columnar divi-
sions, each of these including a distinct tranaitioa
of the feelings oC the mind from faintness to inten..
aity, or from intensity to faintness.
Thee several transitions will be next deteribed,
,tlloushDOt in the ex.ct order which is ~
in the .,_..l table DO'it' given. ·
I -1
I . '
FORMt~
~·
~
I!lor
pe
'
Degrees of
~
intensity,
vividness,
pr faintn.,.;
15
'
,..........................} I
14. I
I
necessary for the production '
of spectral illusions. 13 '
i
12 i
[s '
Vividness of onlinary mental t 11
'
emotionR.
f 10 !
I
9
Medium states of the mind,~ s i
forminf the onlinary tranquil
I
state o watchfulness. )
7 I
I
Degree at which muscular mo.. } I
tiona obey the will. 6
I
Degree of vividness at which }
5
consciousness begins.
4 I
I
........ of m~oJ f.,t;,.. M} 3 I
e~treme as not to excite con-
2 !
sctousness.
I sJ
·--- _j
fc
• IE .• -· *'
CHAP. XIX.
THE VARIOUS EXCITEMENTS AND DEPRESSIONS
CONNECTED WITH SLEEP AND WATCHFULNESS.
A pleaaing land of drony-head it wu,
Of dreams that wave before the half-shut eye;
And of gay castles in the elouda thst pus,
For ever flushing round a summer-sky.
Ctlllk oflrulolen«.
IN this chapter will be described the particu-
lar excitements and depressions connected with
sleep and watchfUlness ; a reference being at the
same time made to the general tabular view which
I have given of the comparative degrees of f&.int-
ness, vividness, or intensity, subsisting between
sensations and ideas, during the various transitions
. to which they are subject.
SECTION I.
TRANSITION (marked the 1st in the Table)
Prr>m per-ftct Sleep to the rom111011 State of WatchjWtte••·
The first transition to be noticed is from perfect
sleep to that cool and collected state which charac-
terizes our common waking moments.
During intervals of deep slumber, sensations are
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
supposedto be more faint than ideas ; none of these
mental states ate, however, vivid enough to be the
.uiU~~ . of consciousness. Sensations are &CCQld-
iM~Y. placed on the annexed scale, at the lowest
~gree, IXlarked 1, while ideas oCcupy ·the gradu-
ated line marked 3.
It is also assumed, that at each stage of excite-
ment, ideas increase less in vividness than sensa-
tions.
Keeping the foregoing proportional increase in
view, the lieveral stages of excitement which occur
during this transition may, in the subjoined table1
be readily traced.
TABULAR VIEW.
Sensations, from being more faint than ideas,
hecooie more vivid.
~•of
Vlridneu Perfect
hiAt- 8loep•
......
) 9
Coueioul and J 8
active states ol
watcl>fulneo8· - 7 .......
Mutelesobey
the will. } 6 l4eu.
Con~} 5
begins.
4 Ideal.
.._. l3 Ideas. SenaaUOUJ,
tuaotte
excite OODIICi- l! .. .
OUIIleta.
1 a...att-..
• Whea 1011111t10111and ideu are eqlUIIIy vivid there II n0 mental ~ous-
n• ofthem, See page ItO. .
oiqjzedbvGooglc
in the first stage of excitement, repr~ilted'm
the titble, ideas are raised to d~gree 4, while ~
tions, which are more excitable, follaw tlretii. so
close as to stand at the degree 8. '11tese l'llent:al
states, however, are still so faint; that no consci-
ousness·of them ensues.
~ Stage 'lfE.rcitemem.
In the second stage, sensations and ideas; from
their different excitabilities, each appear at the
same degree of vividness. If they had proprtion-
ally differed in vividness, a mental consciousness
of such states would have ensued. But, as I have
remarked on a former occasion, (page~,) "when
it is considered that the human mind can form no
notion of the present and of the past, but from
the comparative degree of vividness, which, dur-
ing our waking hours, subsists .between sensations
and ideas ; and that the notion of present and past
time enters into our definition of consciousness, it
must follow, that when sensations arrive at the saJlle
degree of vividness as ideas, ·a state of mental
unconsciousness must necessarily be the result."
Examples of this condition of our feelings are
.afforded in those moments which immediately prr~
c~ OUT recoveTy from sound sleep. ···
t48 UCITEMBNT8 OF WATCHFULNBS&
8tl S~ogt (//Excitement.
. in a third stage of excitement, sensations attain
the 7th, and ideas the 6th degree of vividness~ the
Cortner becoming more vivid than the latter. The
~onsciousness of the mind is now entire.
An important law of the mind is now called
forth, which may be thus briefly explained: Wlaen
mentalfeelings 'lf any description attain a certain
degree 'lfv.iviOOess, muscular motions obey the im-
pul8e Q{the will.* For, in the faint feelings ofour
common dreams, there is a decided volition, but no
contractions of the muscles follow. The particular
degree necessary for muscular motions is represent-
ed in the seale as the sixth. The effect induced i~
however, but feeble;
The slumb'ring god, amaz'd at this new din,
Thrice st.rove to rise, and thrice sunk down again :
Listless be stretch'd, and gaping rubb'd his eyes,
Then falter'd thus betwixt half words and sighs.
Another character may yet be mentioned, which
distinguishes this stage of excitement. The vivid-
ness of ideas approaches so nearly to that of sensa-
tions, that recollected images of thought are of-.
• Regarding this curious law I could say much, but am prevent-
ed by the limited nature of the present work. My views, bov.·-
ever, on this subject, will, ere long, be subroitted to abe public.
·--
.: '::: d :>xa au
EXCITEMENTS OF WATCHFULNESS. !~
ten confounded with aetual ·impieteions. While,
th~efore, the various forms of fancy and of ~e­
mory mingle together in confusion, a lethargic
faintness increases the indistinctness, by impart-
ing to the whole a dull and feeble gloom :
The landakip such, inspiring perfect eaae,
Where Indolence (f'or eo the wizard higbt)
Close-hid hie caatle 'mid embowering trees,
That half' shut out the beams of' PhCEbus bright,
And made a kind of' checker'd day and night.•
4tk Stage ofExcitement.
In a fourth stage of excitement, sensations at-
tain the 9th, and ideas the 7th degree of vividness,
the former now being more vivid than the latter.
This stag~ of excitement is particularly favour-
able for the operations of the reasoning powers.
Actual impressions possess such a superior degree
of intensity, that they are not easily confounded
with the recollected images of thought. The at-
Wnment of a state of mind such as this, free from
depressing or exciting passions, has been recom-
mended by all moralists, as indispensable for the
discovery of truth. Thus the Roman writer
Boethius:
" Tu quoque ei vis
Lumine claro
• Thomson's Castle-of Indolence.
~ ..., 1,1
U0 DEPRESSION OF SLEEP.
I •>( • ••> ' I '"
Cemetev-
Ti.lmite nii:te ·
Carpere ca1lem
Gaudia pelle,
Pelle Timomn,
.~
· N~ elor lldlit,
Spemque fugato.
Nubila niena est,
Vinctaque frenis
Ha~ ubi regnant."
I
SECTION II.
TRANSITION (marked the 4th in the Table)
From the common State qf Watckjulne11 ta perfect Sletp.
. A aecand transition is from the ordinary state of
;our waking hours to prefect sleep.
' It is unnecessary to dwell upon the phenomena
of this depression ofour mental feelings, which are
the exact reverse of the stages of excitement just
described. It is sufficient to state, that sensations,
from being more vivid than ideas, become more
faint.
~ suitable opportunity occurs, however, for
noticing such mental depressions of feelings as are
referable to morbific causes. These, in fact, are to
be traced in all the stages of reduced vividness in-
cidental to a transition from the state of wa~ful­
ness to that of perfect sleep. But this view which
I have taken of the eft'ects of depressing causes wiJl
be rendered more explicit by the following table.
----------~
TABUL.Aa Vll~W.
States or' the mind occurring from depressing
causes of a morbific nature.
,....ol bt, llll1•
Vlridneta Aetl..
l.etlwJ!o
Statedur- 3dl,,
...Shlnt- ltate. State. ln& Cata- · FalatiDc State..
- ....,.
- -----
~f:1DiciOUOand }
9 Sena&Uoru. . .
~...-or 8
•
watchfuln...
7 Benu.tions.
Ideas. .
lllUJclesobey }
the wilL
6 ldeu.
Consciousnes9 } 5 C?:.~
beginl.
4 Jdeaa.
-- l
3 Smtattoo.. Idea&
faint as not to
excite COIJIIll. t . .
ouaneas.
1
--
• Wben II!DJBtiODB llld ideu are equally Vivid, there is no COII8CiOWIIleoii of
them, See page 1:10.
lat, or Lethargic State.
·The first state arising from morbific causes of
depression is that which I have named the lethar-
gic. It frequently results from paralytic atrec-
tiorts of the nervous system, and is sometimes the
consequence of intense thinking. After an undue
mental excitement has been caused by the ardent
study of the abstract sciences, suddenly
·------" Thick mists arise,
And with their silken cotd& tie down the eyes."
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
_. i ·.' LE'I'IMRGIC n<ATES.
·/Ji'he .drawsy god then displays his benumbing
in&!mce:
· "· No pasaions interrupt hie easy reigD ;
· No problema puzzle his lethargic. brain :
But dull Oblivion guards his peaceful bed,
And lazy fogs bedew his gracious head." •
But this tendency of intense study to produce
stupor, has been by no one better illustrated, than
by Dr Crichton; in his valuable work on mental
derartgement. ·With one example, therefore, which
he gives, I shall conclude my notice of the lethar-
gic state induced by depressing causes.
" A young Swiss gentleman, · for six months,
had given himself up wholly to the intense study
of metaphysics. . An inertness of mind followed,
which at last ended in a complete stupor. ' With-
out being blind,' it is said, 'he appeared not to
see; without being deaf, he seemed not to hear ;
without being dumb, he did not speak. In other
respects, he slept, drank, ate without relish and
without aversion, without asking to eat, or with-
out refusing to do so. This state continued a
whole year. At length a person read loudly !O
him, and it was noticed that he expressed symp-
toms of acute suffering; the experiment was tried
again ; and his hearing was re-established on a si-
• Garth's Dilpen811l)'.
--~-·.. -
STATE''DU'JUNGlUANLEPSY. 8
i1lilarr-prinriple.· Every other;sealie waweliOCeniVe-
ly excited on the same principle, and in proporli&n
as he regained the use of it, .the stupidity appear-
ed to be diminished.'" •
fld, State occurring in CataJepay.
In a Second, or still more reduCed stage of de-
pression, sensations and ideas are of equal degrees
of vividness, when a state of unconsciousness·en-
sues. I have supposed that this mental condition
may be found in a variety of the affection called
catalepay. The feelings of the mind, if proportion-
ally differing in vividness, would have excited mus-
cular contractions ; but, in consequence of there
being no mental consciousness of such feelings, no
voluntary influence can consequently arise to affect
the motific nerves which communicate with and re-
gulate muscular fibres. Hence the muscles, while
contracting, ·easily yield to any external impulse,
and retain any given position.t A remarkable
illustration of the state of the mental feelings dur-
ing catalepsy is given by Dr Crichton, on the au-
thority of Borellus.
• See the case given on the authority of Zimmerman, by Dr
Crichton, in his work on Mental Derangement, vol. ii., p. 35.
t This is but an imperfect explanation of a very important phe-
nomenon, the rationale of which.would be too long to investigate
in this limited treatise.
.-
---------- - ~-
~---
" George Gioka~ki, a Polish soldier• deserted
from his regiment in the harvest of the year 1677.
He was discovered, a few days afterwards, drihk-
ing and ·making merry itt a common alehouse.
The moinent he was apprehended, he was so much
terrified, that he gave a loud shriek and immedi-
ately wee deprind of the power of speech. When
brought to a court-martial, it was impoaible to
make him articulate a word; nay, he thea bec:ame
as immoveable as a statue, and appeared not to be
ooilscious of any thing whiclt was goiqg forwN'd,
In the prison to which he ·was conducted he
neither ate nor drank. The officers and the priests
at first threatened him, and alterwards endeavour.
ed to sooth and calm him ; but all their eflbrts
were in vain. He remained senseless and immove.
able. His irons were struck off, and he was taken
out of the prison, but he did not move. Twenty
days and nights were passed in this way, during
which he took no kind of nourishment, nor had
any natural evacuation ; he then gradually aunk
and died."
Sd, lYr Fainting States.
States of syncope are nothing more than thoSf
of sleep, requiring, however, greater stimuli for
their excitement.
-
--
TRANIITION FROM SLEEP -TO DREAMS, &e. W
SECTION III.
TRANBJTION (die 6th in the Table)
'!
hqm_
petftct .Sleep to com- !NtMM and Somll4mhll.tm... .
A third trausition is from the state of ~
sleep to th.t of dreaming, oc of somnambulism.
Consistently with our view of the cause of sleep,
the sensations of perfect repose have been Con-
sidered as fainter than ideas. It is now of impor-
tance to remark, that when causes of undue excite-
ment, such as are known to induce states ofdream-
ing and somnambulism, affect the mind, they do
not, as ill other circumstances enumerated, ca~
tJeDeatlona to increase more than ideas in vivid-
ness, but, on the oontrary, excite them uniformly.
TABULAR VIBW.
The ideas and sensations of perfect sleep are
excited uniformly.
Deer...or bt8tap ldstap a.lltop 14th Otqe
hidnc:ss Perf'Kt orEsclte• or&:ldte• ol Eulte- of JO:zclte.
Uld Faint· Sloop. meat.. · mont. ment. ment.
-
----
-.
·J-=-
M....,,.,. obey } 7 • • •
tbe wUL 6 ••• ldeu •••
Colllciousn- ~ 5 ••• Ideas • • • Seo•UODI
~ . .
4 •• • ldeaa r-..- ...
~-, ,t s IdeM SeniOlkMo .
- t)tO ' .
elltite colllti· j 2 ......tlono .
Ollaiest· . . .
l ~tiOD· . .. . .
,. ~. ,,
!t5(; TRANSITION :fROl\1 SLEEP TO DREAMS.
··'· '· . l.tt.Stt.tP #Excitement.
·.. f· i .-.. " . ,,:.
In the first stage of excitement, ideas are to be
{o~d at the 4th, and sensations at the f«i degree
'of vividness. Neither description of feelings is,
however, sufficiently vivid to excite mental con-
sciousness.
fld Stage <tfExcitement.
In the second stage of excitement, ideas attain
the 5th degree of vividness, when a consciousness
·of them ensues. But the mind is not conscious of
sensations, these being only found at the Sd de-
gree.
The dreaming state now commences, connnedt
however, to ideas :
" When Reason sleepa, our mimic fancy wakes,
Supplies her part, and wild ideas takes
From words and things ill-suited and misjoin'd,
The anarchy of thought and chaos of the mind."
3d Stage qfExciteme1&t.
In the third stage, ide~ ~ppear at the 6th de- .
gr~ ofvividness. That law of the mind; ·bef~~~
alluded to, is now called intoforce, which·i~that
when any mental feelings attain a certain degree of
SOMNAMBULISM. ~
' ~ ·: :\;t.~
vividness, (at or about the 6th degree, as represent-
M in the scale), muscular motions obey the im-
pulse of the wilL Yet at this degree, the actions
of mu&cles are very feeble, so that no other phe-
nomena are induced than those which are indicated
·by the low mutterings, or the startings of lively
dreams. It may be observed of the sensations of
this stage of excitement as of the last, that, rising
.no higher than the 5th degree, they are stiU too
faint to excite consciousness.
4tk Stage 9fExcitement.
The fourth stage of excitement is that of som-
_
nambulism, the ideas of which, being at the 7th de-
.gree of vividness, are as vivid as those of complete
watchfulness. Accordingly, vigorous muscular
motions obey the will. There is likewise a con-
sciousness of sensations, which are to be found in
.the table, at the 5th degree of vividness.
I shall now illustrate this stage of excitement
by shewing, that while the renovated feelings of the
mind are so vivid as to induce spectral impressions,
the sensations of the somnambulist are in a propor-
tionate degree enfeebled. An extract may therefore
be quoted from a case given by Mr Smellie, in his
Philosophy of Natural History, wherein it is per-
fectly clear that sensations were more faint than
ideas. The individual who walked in her sleep was
R servaut-~rl residing near Edinburgh.
-•; ·.
···
. ' . '
."~-!: aqrl_. her OOI.Ulte-....e, ;and fOiilalif~
h~ eyes, though .n,wild, and &tariagr wera DGt
~ fuled. · I t00k a pin, ad repeawdlJ
pricked b.el" arm; b1:1t not a muscle JQoved, DOt a
~ ot paitt was discovembte. At last lhe be-
tameimpatient togetout, and made several attempts
to escape by the door, but that was :prevented hy
the domestics. Perceiving ·her inability to force
lhe door, !!he made a sudden spring at the w~
dow, and endeavoured to throw herself over,
which would have been fatal to her. To remove
every.suspicion of imposture, I desired the people,
with proper preca;utions to prevent harm, to try if
she would really precipitate herself from the win-
dow. A seemingly free access was left for her
escape, which she perceived, and instantly darted
with such force and agility, that more thim one-
half of her body was projected before her friends
were aware. They, however, laid hold of her,
and prevented the dreadful catastrophe. She was
again prevailed upon, though with much reluc-
tance, to sit down. She soon resumed her former
calmness, and freely answered such questions as
were put to her. This scene continued for more
than an hour. I was perfectly convinced, not-
withstanding my original suspicions, that .the wo-
man was actuated by strong and natural impulses,
and not by any design to deceive. I asked if any
of the attendants knew how to awaken her. A
-· .
TB.ANSITION ROM D:uA.ll'S TO SLEEP. -
female' servant replied that she did. She' imme-
diately)'to my ast~t, laid bold ef·~·
wrist, fombly squeezed md rubbed the pl')jediag
boDes, calling out, at tbe same time, Sarah, SUah~
By this operation Sarah awoke. She atanld with
amazement, looked around, and asked how 10
many people came to be in her own apartment at
so unseasonable an hour ? After she waa ~
pletely awake, I asked her what ·was the cause of
her restlessness and violent agitation P She replied,
that abe had been dreaming that she waa ·pur-
sued by a furious bull, who was every momeat Oil
the point of goring her." *
SECTION IV.
.
TRANSITION (named the 6th in the Table)
. FrwA - - Dream. afld Som1111mbulfma to petfect Sleep.
A.fUwrth transition is·from somnambulism and
common dreaming to perfect sleep. As this series
()f mental changes is indicated by phenomena,
the ex~t reverse of the stages of excitement last
described, they will be sufficiently expJained-by
an inspection of the general table which I have
given. It is sufficient for me to observe, that
ideas and seDEBtions are uniformly depressed to·a
low ~gree of faintness.
. . . i)
• Smeme•s Philosophy of Natural History, voL ii. p. 3!13.
t*"!;--T. '": •.·. ·~·; ~·~· .. ::- .r: ··~..C:w
SECTION v.
,.,.,,-o:. • .i.. ~·-- { ·. ·
· . !~::: ~ · : ~~1
TUNSmON (marked the 7th in the ~·'rll!l!le) '"' ~:·.
·p,_ SIMp len ~lite to comm011 Dna,.. 4flll ao--w-.
It is yet possible to conceive of other circumstan-
ct!S tlightly difFering from those just mentioneCl, un-
der wbieh common dreams and somnambulism may
be induced. During the transition from watdtfu).;.
ness to perfect sleep, there is an intermediate period·
of less complete repose, in which the following
effects, resulting from a cause of mental excite-
ment, may ensue.
TABULAR VIEW,
Ideas and sensations are excited uniformly. - :-~
~t\tscles obey }
the will.
Consciousness }
begins.
M"'")
faint as not to
excite con-
sciousness.
J
Degrees o
VlTidneu Sl~p 1eu ht Stage 2d Stage 3d S\a81:
and Faint- complete. of E:r.cite-o OfE:r.cite- ofEllclte--
neu. ment. ment. tnent.
7
6
5 Ideas
4 Ideas SensaUom
3 Senlo:ltiont
2
., .
·i.!.t.
111 Stage 9/'E~ . . ~ :: : :.;a
_ ]~the 1lrst stage of excitement, ideas aiimi1f1i.
5th·and sensations the 4th degree otVividbaarHf
~ .• J- .: ~ . -~!:!1;._~
...; ~ ~
which ca1e there is a consciousnes. of the fozmer
fee1inp only, and the ordinary state of dre8m..
ing i&-1adueed. r . ·· J • r. ·~
id Stage 9lExcitement.
In the 2d. stage, ideas attain the.6th and BeDS.
tiona the 6th degree ofvividness. Muacular·mo.
tions now slightly obey the will, andthere is alii4> a
cooaciouanetl8 of actual impt·essions.
8d Stage 9lExcitement.
In the 3d stage, ideas are found at the 7th and
sensations at the 6th degree of vividness. This
change is characterized by all the phenomena of
IIOIIUWDbulism.
I baw..of oo other way in which this last stage
or exei'b!ment can be illustrated, than by shewing
that,causes of mental excitement, when inducing
aomnambulism, may operate before perfect sleep
is induced. ·Thus, in a case which Mr Smellie
has recorded in his Philosophy of Natural His-
tory, relative to a somnambulist, it is said, that
" hi& ordinary sleep, which is seldom tranquil,
when about to be seized with a fit of somnam-
hulism is uncommonly disturbed. While in this
.ttate, he is afFected with involuntary motions ; his
~ ptlpitates; his tongue falters ; and he
allemately rises up and lies down. On one of
tJ.ete ooeuioDa the gentlemen remarked, that he
8 TMNSITION FllOII IOKN.A.D1ILIII~ &c.
eooo articulated more distinctly, rca auddenly,
and acted agreeably to the motives al the m.--
which then occupied his imagination." •
SECTION VI.
TRANSITION (marked the 8th in the Gcn.U Table)
Frt»n SomMmhlVm and comm1111 Dmmu to le11 cOmplete Sleep.
This transition is the exact reverse of the last
described. I shall therefore take no farther notice
of it, than by a reference to the general table
which I have given.
• Another cue, wherein sleep-walking took place be£ore per-
fect e1eep was induced, may be found in the 9th volume of the
Philoeophical Transactions of Edinburgh. The IOIIUialllbulilt,
to whom I have before alluded, (sec page 36) was ~ wrvan~l
affected not only with sleeping, but with walring vieiqp. It- .~
said, that " on another evening having fallen asleep, sunoiUidecl bf
some of the inhabitants of the house, she imagined heraelf to be
living with her aunt at Epsom, and going to the ra~ ; placed
henelf on one of the kitchen stools, and rode upon it into 'die
_ , with much spirit and a clat.teriug noiBe, but With011t ~
wallimed.,
,,,. e' ,,Google
- .
<' -
.. -
,_\;..
CHAP. XX.
THE ORDER OF PHENOMENA OBSZJlVABLB ll'f
EXTREME MENTAL EXCITEMENTS.
To the J1U18ic region's centre
We are verging it appears ;
Lead us right, that we may enter
StraDge enchantment's dreamy apheres.
Lord F. £. a-et-'1 Fmm,
THE tran'sition next to be noticed, is from those
medium degrees of vividness which characterize
00!' ordinary waking moments, to the intense"con.:.
cfition of mental feelings, which gives rise to spee-
tl,'81 illusions.
In the common state of watchfulness, ideas,
aa I just have pointed out, are supposed to be
less vivid than sensations ; at the end of this excite-
ment, however, they are rendered more intense.
But a readier explanation of these phenomena
will be afforded when they are arral1g00 in a tabu-
•wnn.
i64 EXTREME MENTAL EXCITEMENTS.
TRANSITION
From the ortlJna'71 trtmgi'U State of WatchfulMII to a State of
eztreme mental Bzcitnnent.
Ideas, from being less vivid than sensations,
become more intense.
Dqr... ot htsur !dBtac< lkl81ap 411a~·
Vh'idnett Walchful·
~ Iaten• ...... ofEacil... of helle- ofbolto-
.,_
olty.
ment. meut: mcnt.
-·
------- -
1 15 . Ideas
--l
tioDID..... 14 ...
for Ill""'-
Ideal
:f'tmpno- 13 . 8-
lion1.
,. . 1!
-
ft&~oror'} 11 . cw· .
=::- 10 Sensat.lon•
9
--- Ideal .
Mtldlum.-.} 8
oltbe mind.
7 Ideas .
• Whell-tlona lllld Ideal are of the aame depee of Yividnao, ~ II DO
mentallllllladoumeos ofthem. See lllfll' 220.
Alter these general remarks, I ·shaH proceed to
describe the several stages of excitement .which
occur during this transition of the feelings of the
mind.
1st Stage Q/.E.rciteme!&l.
In the first stage, sensations are to be found at
the lOth, and ideas at the 9th degree of the table~
•
QRDINARY EMOTIONS. i6/i.
the comparative vividness of the former not in-
creasing so ml,lch as that of the latter.
This oomparative degree of intensity finds an
illustration in our ordinary mental emotions. The
vividness of ideas approaches too near that of
sensatiops, ~ that the proper distinction .which
ought to subsist between them is less easily ~
ceroed; .and h~nce the reason why mental el,llo-
tions do not allow of the decisions of cool judgment.
The effect, likewise, of a vivifying influence which
acts in a particular manner upon ideas, is to give
them, when compared with sensations, an undue
prominence .in. our thoughts. A farther ~
quence, .therefore, . of this action is,-that relations
of COPlpari~n, such as subsist among all our v&..
rietie8 of !~ling, are suggested in a much greater
number and variety than when the mind is cool
and tranquil. New resemblances, differences, forms,
or positions, unexpectedly arise, and, in the same
uolooked-for manner,connect the recollected images
otthe mind with the external objects by which we
are surrounded. Should no calmer reference then
be made for the correctness of such relations to
actual circumstances, or the series of changes to
whleh matter is subject, we enter the wild realms
ol phantaSy, where sober deliberations, which
have truth for their object, are exchanged f~ the
reveries of fanatics, of poets, or of philosophical
theorists:
!16 IWBBID .D.CITBXENT.
'' FJedg'd with the featben ofa learned mue,
They raiee themaelftll Wlto the higheat pitch,
MarryiDg ~earth and heaven in a thought."•
When individuals labour under an evident defi-
ciency of the judging faculties, and when, at the
same time, morbific causes impart a permanent in-
fluence to the too vivid state of ideas, then arises
that distracted state of the thoughts, where no dis-
tinction is attempted to be made between actual
impressions and the renovated feelings of the mind.
This variety of amentia is happily illustrated by
Pinel in the case which he has given of one of his
own countrymen, who bad been educated in all the
prejudices of the ancient noblesse. " His passion-
.ate and puerile mobility was excessive. He con-
stantly bustled about the house, talking incessant-
ly, shouting, and throwing himself into great pas-
sions for the most trifling causes. He teased his
~omestics by the most frivolous· orders, and his
neighbours by his fooleries and extravagancies, of
which he retained not the least recollection for a
single moment. He talked with the greatest vola-
tility of the court, of his periwig, ofhis horses, of
his gardens, without waiting for an answer, or
giving time to follow his incoherent.jargon."
• Old comedy of Lingua.
SECOND 8'l'AGE OF EXCITSMENT. ··!18'7
~Stage 'lfEzci~.
In this stage of excitement, sensations and ideas,
from being excited in djft'erent proportions, each
attain the same degree of vividQesa. (See degree
11 in the.folluuMl6tahk.) At this period, as I have
more than once explained, all knowledge of pre-
sent and past time, which necessarily results from
the compa,rative degrees of vividness that subsist
betw~ sensations and ideas, must totally cease;
and with it, of course, all mental consciousness.
TABULAR VIEW.
P..:"ty~
1st Stage of
Excitement
tdStageof
Excitement.
-
OrdiDt.ry }
Mental! .
··Bmotio11a
11 { Selllatioos
Ideas•
10 Sensations
9 Ideas
Thjs momentary state of unconsciousness is not
unfrequently induced by violent emotions of the
mind. Accordingly, in the descriptions which
poets have given us of the effects of variQ~s ex-
citing passions, illustrations of such an incident
will be commonly met with. One of the dramatl,
ptrs{)ffl.(l!, for instance, in Dryden's tragedy of
Aurengzebe, while expatiating on the more than
ordinary intensity which had been imparted to.....
168 UNCONSCIOUSNESS INDUCED.
his feelings by some source of enjoyment or other,
very philosophically adds,
"Nature
Givee all ehe ean, and lab'riDg atill-to give,
Makee it10 great, we can but tute and live;
So fiU8 the ~n1e11 that the soul seems fled,
. Afill thought iUelfdou.for the time lie dead."
By the same poet, this stage of mental excite-
ment has been described as a sortof lethargy :
" Thus long my grief hu kept me dumb,
Sure there'•a letMriJY in ""tfhtr-."
And in the Conquest of Grenada :
Ev'n while I speak and look, I c:hange yet more ;
And.now am nothing that I wu before.
I'm numb'd and fix'd, and IICIIlCe my eyeballJ move;
I fear it ia the letkargy qfluve!
1'his momentary unconsciousness is likewise
attended ·with a corresponding cessation of all
muscular inotions, hut more particularly of those
• which are concerned with vocal utterance. Thus,
)h~kspeare speaks of " the grief thatdoes not
~~,Peak." • · · But Dryden, in his translation of Ovid,
• Give 110n0w words ; the grief that doee not apeak,
· \Thilpen the o'er.fraught heart, ar.d tnda it bnak.
M~1 4&1 41 &tiflll 3.
FLUCTUATIONS OF EXOI'l'BHENT. ~
has more particularly described this peculiar af-
fection: ··
" She thus eaeay'd to apeak ; her accente hung,
And, falt'riDg, dy'd unllniah'd on her tougue,
0r 'flllliah'd into aJgbs I with long delay
Her Yoiee return'd, and found the wonted way."
In violent ebullitions of passion, feelings occa-
sionally arise of which we are alternately conscious
and unconscious. The following tabular view will
probably afFord a rationale of this phenomenon,
which depends upon our mental feelings undergoing
a sort of vacillation between the 6rst and second
stages of excitement which I have described.
~ ~ IJ'=:!'e-CoDieloue-
D- -:
ia-returDd
11 . . . {Senaatio111
Ideaa<o
. .
10 Seneatfona . . . Sensations
9 Ideea . . . Ideea
• Wbal..UO.IDd ideu ue of tbe 11111118 decree ol 'ri~ there IIaa
~oltbem.
Alternate transitions of this kind, from one stage·
of excitement to another, have been alluded to by
Rowe, in his admirable drama of the Fair Peni-
tent:~
" At 8nt her nge wu dumb, and wanted words;
But when the etorm found way, 'twu wild and loud ;
Mad u the pn... of the De1phJc god;
270': UNCONSCIOUSNESS INDUCED.
· · ·Bntlaiuiaatie-pauion swell'd her breast,
Enlarg'd her voice, and ruftled all her form."
I shall next remark, that the second stage of
excitement, thus characterized by a temporary un-
consciousness, has been in a striking manner illus-
trated by the effects resulting -frOm the inhalation
of the nitrous oxide. When Sir Humphry Davy
had respired six quarts of nitrous· oxide, the ope-
ration of which was not so rapid as. usual, he
remarked, " The thrilling was very ;rapidly pro-
duced. The objects around me were perfeCtly dis-
tinct, and the light of the candle was not, as usual,
dazzling. The pleasurable sensation was at_ first
local, and perceived in the lips and about the
cheeks. It gradually, however, di1Fused itself
over the whole body, and in the middle of the
experiment was for a moment so intense and P\ll'e
as to absorb existence. At thia moment, and not
bifqre, I lost conaciou8neaa; it was, ho~ever,
quickly restored."*-But sometimes, when ideas
arrive at the same degree of intensity as sensations,
our feelings do not shew a tendency to increase in vi-
vidness; in which case, a much longer state of un-
consciousness subsists. Accordingly, this happen-
ed to another inhaler of the nitrous oxide, spoken
of in Sir Humphry Davy's Researches. "I waa
• Davy's Reeearchee coneemiog Nitrout Oxide, p. 4tl.
...-....~-">-.! -
UNCONSCIOUSNESS OF CATALEPSY. ~71
.for .tome time,"" he remar~ " tmro~Uciotu 91'e:r-
iflence."'
A more permanent state of unconsciousness Iriay
likewise be brought on by morbific excitements ; in
which case, a variety of catalepsy is induced, dif-
fering from that which I have before described.
(See page 258). Should sensations and ideas ac-
quire a similar degree of vividness, owing to a more
feeble excitement of the mind, the vivifying in-
fluence which acts upon muscles, notwithstanding
the absence of all mental consciousness, will only
cause very faint contractions of them. But in a
greater stage of excitement, such as that which we
are now considering, the more viVid condition of
mental feelings induces vigorous muscular actions.
Yet, as long as there is no consciousness of the
present and the past, the muscles maintain the same
state of rest or motion which they had acquired pre-
vious io the excitement.• A recent example of this
variety of catalepsy may be found in Dr Good's
w.ork on the study of medicine. It is the case of
a student of Gray's Inn, about nineteen years of
age. "Having been attacked,"" says this author,
" with a fit of catalepsy while walking, within a
few minutes after having left his chambers, he
• This is a Vflr1 curious fact. It will be more particularly no.
ticed in a separate lnveetigation, which baa for aome time occupied
my atteatioa.
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
- --- - --~--~~~~~~-~
'•i'Ji THIRD STAGE OF EXCITEMENT.
continued·his pace insensibly, and without· the
_ slightest knowledge of the·course he took. As far
'as he could judge, the paroxySm continued for
nearly an hour; ' through the whole of which time
his involuritaiy.walking continued; ·at the end ol
this period he began a little to recover his recoiJec-
tion, and the general use of his external senses.
He found himself in a .large street, but· did not
know how he got there; nor what was its na.me•.
Upon inquiry, he learned that he was at the fur-
ther end of Piccadilly, near Hyde-Park-Corner, to
which, when he left his chambers, he had no inten-
tion of going. He was extremely frightened, very
much ·exhausted, and returned home in_
a coach.
He Wa8 .oot conacioua f#' ooy particu1M train 91'
idea8 t1at hadpa88ed .,. hi# mind during thejlt..,..
Sd Stage WExcitement•..
In a third stage of excitement, ideas are to be
found at the 18th and sensations at the l!th de..
gree of vividness. Spectral impressions now occur,
ideas being more vivid than the actual impres-
sions with which they are. accompanied, and far
more intense than the undisturbed and cool lie~
tions of our proper waking hours.
The momentary unconsciousness just described,.
occurs as ~he prelude ofspectral impressions,-coo-
• Good's Study of .MediciDe, vol. ill. P• 680.
REALITIBS SUOOEBDBD BY PHANTASMS. 278
veying the notion that SUI'l'Otmding objeets are
'V&Jlishing, or melting into air, when, in fact; it is
sensations themselves which are sinking into 1-.Qlt
states of unconsciousness. Immediately, howey,
thia apparent evanescence is succeeded by id.aal)
intensely vivified, that the semblance is excited.of
a. tnmsmutation of tangible objects into the faataa..
tical images of a visionary world.
This transition I have endeavoured to explain
by the following
TABULAR VIEW.
~~
~~~i:f~ c:;:.
while eoo- wblle "'-!_~ wblcb ~~
templatlng are •• ISpoetaJIIJI.
inal Objedo. Dlebi... .,._...,..
lntellle Excite-} 13 . . . . . . Ideas
menta.
12 SeDtationa
. . . . .
}
11 . . . {~ . .
Ordinary
. 10 Sen11ations
Emotions. . . . .
9 Jdeaa . . . . . .
An order of depression, the exact reverse of the
excitement which is displayed in the foregoing
table, will present us with the mode in which
phantasms appear to vanish, and real objects again
become manifest. Thus, it is recorded of one of
x2
•
1174 WHEN ECSTASIES AJlB P.R.ECBDED
the·•pneiclents of the Swiss Cantons, t)lat " he
hddl~tt9tvisit the library of the eetkWMh-
~~.i ' Eateringit about two o'clock in tlle·after-
JJ001t9i<wbat 1taazhis·8111Uetnent. to ~ th".former
president of the same body, his deceased. friend
sitting, insol~nconclave, in the president's chair,
-.:idt:a numert>us·list of 'great. men, dead,' ~
ing him in his delibemtions ! He hastened fiOIP
the place in ~r, and went to some of his ~
in office to advise upon the most speedy measures
to divorce the usurpers of their stations; but on
• returning with a reinforcement,of trembling asso-
ciates, he found the long table in statu quo, the
chairs empty, and every mark of the mysterious
deliberators vanished into air."*
Sometimes spectral impressions are ushered in
by a more permanent state of unconsciousness,:
which was considered of great importance by old
• This story I have quoted from an ably-conductedwork, the Edin-
ltutgh·Literary Gazette. It ia the report of an anecdote related by
th~ Jelvned president of the RoyalSQciety, Sir Walter Scott, on the
occasion when I read a paper which has given riae to the present ex.
panded dissertation on apparitions. This cue, however, is one of a
very common occurrence, and similar to many others which have
been noticed in this treatise. It ia meJely, therefore, to shew to
what claas of phenomena it belongs, that I have introduced it ..
illuatrating a particular stage of mental excitement. Another story
mentioned by the ingenious Editor of the Edinburgh Literary Ga.
zette ia nearly of a similar description. (See tAu publicaliorl Jbr
Jwly'9, 1828.)
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
BY STATBS 01' UNCONSCIOOSKI88. ~4
pneumatologista. The temperary . ~us.:
DillS which preceded an eatuy was attl'iblud ·to
the apprehensive faculties of sense hamtg left..-
body for the purpose of supernaturally eq»l~ug
everything
: . " Within earth'• caae or h•••'• cilelt fbluul."
Aa 1000, therefore, as the sen* had returned
from their long journey, loaded with intelligence,
the seer's state of ecstasy commenced :
" He theretore 1e11t out all hil aen1e1
~o bring him in intelligence~,
Which vulpn, out ol iporauee,
Miltake for faWJig in a trance;
But thote that trade in geomaucy,
AfBnn to be the strength of fancy."
It is observed by Martin, in his Treatise on the
Second-sight of the Highlands, that " there is one
in.Sky, of whom his acquaintance observed, that
when he sees a vision, the inner part of his eyelids
tum so far upwards, that after the object disap-
pears, he must draw them down with his fingers,
and he sometimes employs otqers to draw them
down, which he finds to be the much easier way."
From this circtimstance, Dr Ferriar has conceived
that the vision of the seer was connected with
catalepsy. But this i~f'erence is a dubious one:
While thus the lady talk'd, the knight
Tum'd th' outalde of hie eyes to white;
At men of inward light are wont
To tum their opticka in upon't."
t'T6 REALITIES AND PHANTASMS ALTERNATED.
An occasion now presents itself of eXplaining
another. phenomenon ·incidental to speetral illu-
SIOns.
When the feelinss of the mind are under the
influence of an irregular excitement, it is not _un;.
common for them to fluctuate in their degrees of
vividness·; or, in other words, ideas, from being.
more faint than actual iJnp~ons, become, in.
turns, more ~ivid. ·In this case, objects ofsensation;
appear to vanish ; spectral images rise up and melt
into air ; sensible objects re-appear ; and thus,
there is a constant alternation of realities and
phantasms, which, when rapidly induced, gives
origin to a painful delirium.
But the mode in which realities and phantasms
alternate with each other may find a readier ex-
planation in the following
II
10
9 ldeu
TABULA& VIEW•
... c~~···
...... -u-
• • • • • • ld<!al
• Wbeo -...aUldldeu ue of the ame ~ of inteDiity, llMft II an
liii<'OueioUIOell of them.
SUCCESSIONS OP PHANT.ASHS. f!'l"i
An example of the same alternation of realities
and phantasms will be found in Dr Crichto~& work
on mental derangement. It is given on the autlb.
rityofBonn~t. The case recorded is ofa gentleman
whose mental disorder had originated from some af-
fection of the brain, aggravated by intense study.
It is said, that "mansions arose suddenly before
his eyes with all their external and appropriate
decorations. . At times, the appearance of the
paper in his room seemed at once to·be changed,
and, instead of the usual figures which are on it,
a number o! fine landscapes appeared to his view.
Some time after, not only all the landscapes and
paper, but the furniture also, disappeared, and the
bare walls presented themselves to his eyes."•
Occasionally, the states o! the mind fluctuate be-
tween the second and third stages of excitement,
so that feelings of which we are unconscious, and
spectral impressions, are alternately produced. In
this case, phantasms arise,-they vanish,-other
illusions of the same sort take their place,-these
again vanish,-and thus, there is a longer or
shorter succession of spectral appearances, without
the intervention of any impressions which may be
suggested by natural objects.
These phenomena may be illustrated, as before:
• Crichton on Mental Derangement, vol. ii. p. 39;
SUCCESSIONS OF PHANTASMS.
TABULA:& VIEW,
Explanatory of the Mode in which Successions of
Phantasms occur.
Degree• of Prerioul IReal Spectral Phantasm• Othet" Phaut.aamt
lntenlit • State of Objectl mpreuioDI ..nlab. Phantumt ...... q.
Y Feell..,.. ..wm. appear. nlab, &c.
------------.----
1~ Ideas. IcUu
Ill
11
10 a.....u.....
9 Ideal.
.......u....
c=-
• When aeuatlonollld IdeM ue of the lUIIe cleBree of intensity, then! 11 aa
uncooocioumeos of them.
Cowley, in some lines which he has written on
Fancy, has very well depicted a similar succession
of illusions, which he attributes to the special ope-
rations of this assumed and personified principle of
the mind:
" Here, in a robe which does all coloun abow,
Fancy, wild dame, with much lalcivioua pride,
By twin-c:ameleons dnwn, does gaily ride.
H~ ~ then follows, and throngs round about,
Of abapea and airy fonne an endless rout.
A aea rolla on with barmle11 fury there;
Straight 'tie a field, and trees and herbs appear :
,,,, e' ,,Google
SUOOBSSIONS OF PHANTASMS. 2'79
Here in a momeDt awe Tilt aimJee JUde,
And a quick 1ee11e ol~. and bJ9od ~y'd:
Here tparld.iDJ wines and brighter maids come in,
The bawds Cor eenee 1111d living baits Cor sin :
Here golde11 mountains aweD the cov'tous plac:e,
ADd c:entauft ride themJelvea a painted race."
An actual instance, however, of spectral impres-
sions undergoing successive changes in the subject
of them, is afforded in the Autobiography of Ben-
venuto Cellini. This surprising man, during his
confinement in a vile loathsome dungeon, had
undergone a series of cruelties that had increased
to the highest degree of excitement, feelings,
which were of themselves naturally vivid. • He,
therefore, continually fancied himself in the pre-
sence of an invisible guardian. Soon afterwards
he was immured in the deepest subterranean cell
in the castle, where having prayed that he might
once more behold the light of the sun, he sudden-
ly fell into a sort of ecstasy, in which he fancied
that he beheld the object of his fervent wish.
But the exclamation which he uttered, and the
glorious changes which this orb underwent, are
best told in his own words:
" 0 wonderful power ! 0 glorious influence di-
• 'lhia view oC Cellini's illusions is very properly entertained in
1111 escellent notice of his liCe, which may be found in the 4th vol.
oC the Retrolpective Review, page 16.
180 SUCCESSIONS OF PHANTASMS.
.
vine ! bow much more bounteous art thou to me
than I expected. The sun, divested of his rays,
appeared a ball of purest melted gold. ·Whilst I
gaz4ld on this noble phenomenon, I saw the centre
of the sun swell and bulge out, and, in a moment,
there appeared a Christ upon the cross, formed of
the self-same matter as the sun; and ·so gracious
and pleasing was his aspect, that no human i~
gination. could form so much as a faint idea {jf
such beauty. As I was contemplating this glO:
rious apparition I cried out ·aloud, A miracle !
A miracle ! 0 God ! 0 clemency divine ! 0
goodness infinite ! what mercies dost thou on me
this morning ! At the very time I thus medi-
tated, and uttered these words, the figure of
Christ began to move towards the side where the
rays were concentered, and the middle of the sun
swelled and bulged out as at first : the protuber-
ance having increased considerably, was at last
converted into a figure of the beautiful Virgin
Mary, who appeared to sit with her son in her
arms, in a graceful attitude, and even to smile_;
she stood between two angels of so divine a beau-
ty, that imagination could not even form an idea
of such perfection. I likewise saw in the same
sun, a figure dressed in sacerdotal robes ; this
figure turned its back to me, and looked towards
the blessed Virgin, holding Christ in her arms.
FO'ORTB STAGE OF EXCITEMENT. l!ft
All theee things I clearly and plainly saw, and,
with a loud· voice, ·continued to return thanks to
the Almighty. This wonderful phenomenon hav-
iug appeared before me about eight . minutes,
vanished from my sight, and I was instantly COD-
veyed back to my couch."
4th Stage 9fEzcilement.
I have again supposed a .fourth, or extreme
stage of excitement, where ideas attain the 15th
and sensations the 18th degree of vividness, the
former being still more intense than the latter.
This stage is shewn in the following table.
TABULAR VIEW
Of the two difFerent Degrees ofExcitements n~
sary for the Production of Spectral Imp~ons. .
Degreeeot
lnli!llaity.
3d Stage of
Excltemeot. ::a~"t
~-}
IS . . . Ideat
... . . . . .
IS Ideas Sensatio111
12 Senatioua . .
lonunary
epJGtious. } 11 . . . . . ··-
. On~ former oeeasion, I shewed. that ·morbific
escitements did nothing more than impart an ad·
.... PHANTASMS ALTERNATELY
ditioll.of vividness to feelings, which, from moral
~ . were of themselves either pleasurable or
paiDful; but that when inordinate vivifyingactioaa
were induced, spectral impressions followed, the
&Ujeets of which were alternately of a pleasurable-
and painful quality.
This, then, is the peculiar character of the 4th
aud last stage of mental excitement, an illustration
of which is afforded in the visions of Kotter, who,
as Dr Ferriar has remarked, " was sincere in his
enthusiasm, and was as much a seer as any second-
sighted prophet of the Hebrides." In the yeer
1616, an angel appeared to this prophet, who or..
dered him to inform the civil powers that great
evils were impending over Germany. He bad,
.accordiogly, many visions, which were supposed
to have reference to the future, but they were not
declared on oath to the magistrates before the
year 1619. I shall pass over several of the phan-
tasies he experienced, c6ntenting myself with the
notice of one ecstasy·only, which was so extreme-
ly intense as to shew e~dent marks that it .was al-
ternately pleasurable and painfuL Supposing
himself to be attended by two angels, Kotter thus
proceeds: "On the 18th day of September,"
says he, ~' both the youths returned to me, saying,
be not afraid, but observe the thing which will be
shewn to thee. And I suddenly beheld a circle,
like the sun, red, as it were bloody, in which were
PLEASURABLE AND PAINFUL. 288
bJaek aad white lines, or spots, so illtermingled,
that ~ there appeared a grea~ number-
of blacks, sometimes of whites ;·and this sight con-
tiaued for some space of time. And when they.
bad said to me, Behold ! attend ! feal" not I Db!
evil will befall thee ! lo, there were three suc-
cessive peals of thunder, at short intervals, 10 loud
and dreadful, that I shuddered all OTer. But the
circle stood before me, and the blaek ud white
spots were disunited, and the circle approached so
near, that I could have touched it with my hand.
And it.was so beautiful, that I bad never in my
life seen any thing more agreeable ; and the white
spots were so bright and pleasant, that I could not
contain my admiration. But the black spotAS were
carried away in a cloud of darkneu, in which ·1.
heard a dismal outcry, though I could see no one.·
Yet these words of lamentation ~ere audible:'
Woe unto us who have committed ourselves to the
blaek cloud, to be withdrawn from the cirele co-
loured with blood of Divine Grace, in whieh the
grace.of God, in his well-beloved Son,, bad en-
closed us ! ~•
I .have at length concluded my aecount of the
various: degrees of vividness which ·our mental
f~ undergo in a transition from the ordiDary
• This vision I have quoted from Dr Ferriar'a illuatrationa.
See ru. Theory of Apparitions, page 78.
1St GENERAL REMARKS.
tranquil state of our waking moments to dlat ex-
treme mental excitement, which gives rise to-apec-
tral impressions. It has been assumed, that idilu,·
from being more faint than sensations, ~
more inte111e.
Another transition remains to be briefly ~ ·
ticed, which is from the highest pitch of mental
excitement to those medium states of the mind,
which are characterized by coolneBB and tranquil-
lity. But it is useless to dwell long upon this de-
pression of mental feelings, as it presents pbenOJDe.:
na the exact reverse of the last-described stages of
excitement. Ideas, from being more intense than
sensations, are, jir1t, reduced to the same degree
of vividness as actual impreBBions, when·a mental
unconsciousness, generally momentary, ensues;
and, laltfl, they become more faint than &eDII&tion&
Theee remarks conclude my general view of the
comparative degrees of vividneBB subsisting among-
sensations and ideas, during their successive states
of excitement and depression. The propriety of
investigating phenomena which have hitherto met
with no examination, must be my apology for the
extent to which I have carried this research.
The laws which we have been considering, may,
indeed, be·applied to the solution of far more im-
portant questions than those which belong to the
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
GENERAL REMARKS.
subject of spectral impressions. While a know-
ledge of them may materially assist the physician
in his treatment of the mental afllictions to which
our humanity is liable, the moral philo110pher may
likewise discover, in the same laws, certain very
important principles influencing human actionsand
conduct~ upon which doctrines of the highest value
to the science of ethics may be securely built.
CHAP. XXI.
INDICATIONS AFFORDED BY MENTAL EXCITE-
MENTS, THAT ORGANS OF SENSATION ARE THE
MEDIUM THROUGH WHICH PAST FEELINGS ARE
RENOVATED.
" Pha.ntuma enim est aentiendi actus ; neque dift'ert a sensione,
aliter quam.fleri dift'ert a factum u.e." HOBBES.
MY next object is togive validity to the conjecture
which I threw out on a fonner occasion, that paSt
feelings are renovated through the medium of or-
gans of sense. It will, indeed, be impossible to
proceed much farther in our researches, until this
curious subject has met with due consideration.
It baa been before pointed out, that pleasurable
feelings, from whatever source they may be de-
rived, depend upon a freedom being given to the
expansive power of the circulating mass, while pain
is induced by any ca¥se which tends to deprive ·it
of this vital property. But regarding the instru-
mentality by which such changes are induced, I
have already adverted (page 55,) to the conclu-
sions of Dr Wilson Philip, deduced from his expe-
,,,. e' ,,Google
HOW SENSATIONS ARE PRODUCED. !!87
riments, namely, that "the nervous system con.
sists of parts endowed with the vital principle, yet
capable of acting in concert with inanimate matter;
and that in man, as well as in certain well-known
animals, electricity is the agent thus capable of
being collected by nervous organs, and of being
universally diffused for purposes intimately con-
nected with the animal economy throughout every
part of the human system." But without found-
ing any system on this particular view, I consider-
ed the nerves as not only the natural dispensers
of that influence upon which the opposite qualities
of pleasure and pain depend, but, likewise, as the
natural source, whence all the degrees of vividness
imparted through the medium of the circulating
fluid to our various sensations, had their origin.
At the same time it was shewn, that under certain
morbid circumatances, substances affecting the
blood, without the intervention of the nerves, had
the same effect of exciting or even depressing the
feelings of the mind. I shall, therefore, now add,
that from the different circumstances of the circu-
lating fluid, as it supplies different structures of
the human frame, arise ·our various susceptibilities
of sensation.
In what, then, consists a susceptibility to idelU ?
This question has been already in part answered.
Since an idea is nothing more than a past feeling
renovated with a diminution of vividness propor-
!iSS HOW IDEAS ARE PRODUCED.
tiooal to the intensity of the original impression,
we are justified in entertaining the suspicion, that
the susceptibility of the mind to sensations and
ideas ought to refer to similar circumstances of cor-
poreal structure. Accordingly, there can be little
or no doubt, as I have before hinted, that organs
of sense are the actual medium through which past
feelings are renovated; or, that when, from strong
mental excitements, ideas have become more vivid
than actual impressions, this intensity is induced
by an absolute afFection of those particular parts
of the organic tissue on which sensations ·depend.
Thus, the mere idea of some favourite food is
well known to occasionally excite the salivary
glands, no less than if the sapid body itself were
actu8.lly present, and stimulating the papillre of
the fauces.
After this explanation, there can be little diBi-
culty in understanding, why strong mental excite-
ments should occasionally, though rarely, restore
impressions of touch, which &:e, indeed, seldom so
proportionally vivid as renovated feelings of vision
or of hearing. Such appears to have been the caae
when Sir Humphry Davy subjected himself to
the vivifying influence of the nitrous oxide. He
confesses to an increased sensibility of touch, 4nd
occasionally notices what he names, a ttmgilJle e:e-
ten8ioo. In Dr Kiuglake's case, this gas bad the
peculiar effect of reviving rheumatic pains in the
9
-- . ..1.....-. - -
.....
IDEAS OF TOUCH KXCITED. t89
t\houlder and bee-joint&, which had not previous-
ly been felt for many months.• Another geDtle.
man, llr James Thomson, speaks to nearly a D.
milar.fact. " I was Nrprised," he remarka, " w
Sad myaelf affected, a few minutes afterwards,
with the recurrence of a pain in my back and
lmees, which I had experienced the preceding day
from fatigue in walking. I was rather inclined to
deem thi'l au accidental coincidence, than an eft'ect
of ,the air; but the same thing CODBtantl,y occur-
ring wheoever I breathed the air, shortly after
• aderiug pain either ft-001 fatigue, or any other ac-
cideatal cause, left no doubt .on my mind as to the
accQracy of the observation."t
From the facts thus advanced, we need not be
mrprised that the impreasion of mWICular resist.
&aJCe, or of blows, should be occasionally blended
wdh tbe iacidents of ghost.Moriee. " After havmg
dropped uleep," says a writer in Nicholson's Jour-
nal on Phantasms produced by Disease, " an ani-
mal seemed to jump on my back with the n101t
shrill aad piercing screams, which were too in~
able for the continuance of sleep." I have quoted
a case of.deliritlm wemena (p. 68), where a man
ia said to have .ad'ered evJW. bodily pain from the
aevere laabing of u imaginal-y waggoner. Ia
• DaYy•s lleMatdlee oonceming Nitrous <bide, p. 6CN.
't Ibid, w.
290 Il>EAS OF TOUCH EXOITED.
Wanley's Wonders of the Little World, I find a
story, taken from Rosse's Arcana, to the following
purport:-" There was an apparition (saith Jrfr
Rosse) to Mr Nicholas Smith, my dear friend,
immediately before he fell sick of that fever that
killed him. Having been late abroad in London,
as he was going up the stairs into his chamber, he
was embraced (as he thought) by a woman all in
white : at which he cried out; nothing appearing,
he presently sickeneth, goeth to bed, and within a
week or ten days died." Beaumont also remarks
of the spirits which-he saw,-" I have been sitting
by the fire with others. I have seen several spirits,
and pointed to the place were they were, telling
the company they were there. And one spirit
whom I heard calling to me, as he stood behind
me, on a sudden clapped his finger to my side,
which I sensibly perceived, and started at it ; and
as I saw one spirit come in at the door, which J
did not like, I suddenly laid hold of a pair of
tongs, and struck at him with all my force, where-
upon he vanished."
But it is useless to multiply stories of this kind,
at the hazard of stumbling upon narratives mixed
up with mere fable, otherwise I might recount, how
the familiar of one man struck him on tlie right
or left ear as he did well or ill,-how to another
individual an angel came with a similar purport,
''And whipp'd the off'en.ding Adam out of him;" -
m ,;,. ,,Google ~
..... ----..!.. ··~·??5$\ -
I»EAS OF VISION EXCITED. 291
how a third visionary fancied he was scourged on
a bed of steel by devils,-how a lad was killed by
a spirit from a box on the ear,--and, in short, how
a cloud of other phantasms have not been content
with a bodiless fonn, but have occasionally put on,
what the pneumatogists of the middle ages were
wont to name, caro 1Wn adamica ; and, under this
garb, have demonstrated the miraculous force of
their muscular exertions :
" rve beard a spirit's force is wonderful;
At whose approach, when starting from his dungeon,
The earth does shake, and the old ocean groans,
Rocks are removed, and towers are thundel"'d down ;
And wall8 ofbrau and gates of adamant
Are passable as air, and fleet like winds.,.
In the next place, the retina may be shewn,
when subjected to strong excitements, to be no less
the organ of ideas than of. sensations. '!'his fact
is illustrated in the following anecdote related by
Nicolai:-" A person of au nd and unprejudiced
urind, though not a man of letters, whom I know
well, and whose wprd may be credited, related to
methefollowing case;-"As hewas recoveringfrom
a· violent nervous fever, being still very weak, he
Jay one night in bed, perfectly conscious that he
was awake, when the door seemed to open, and the
figure of a woman entered, who advanced to his
• Tragedy of <Edipua, by Lee and Dryden.
oiqjzedbvGooglc
292 THE RETINA AFFECTED BY PBANTAsMS.
bed-side. He looked at it for eome momenta, but
as the sight was disagreeable, he tumed himself
and awakened his wife ; on turning again, how-
ever, the figure was gone."• Now, in this inci-
dent, the real sensation of a closed door, to which
the axis of vision had been previously directed,
was followed by the fantastical representation of a
door being opened by a female 6gure. The
question then is, if those very points of the retina
on which the picture of the real door had been im-
pressed, formed the same part of the visual organ
on which the idea or past feeling that constituted
the phantasm was subsequently induced; or, in
other words, did the revival of the fantastic figure
really afFect those points of the retina which had
· been previously impressed by the image of the ac-
tual object ? This question has occasionally met
with a satisfactory eolution. In persons ltllder the
inBuence of spectral illusions, the axis of vision
has been directed, as in the foregoing case, to some
particular part of a room where a phantasm was
conceived to be present. Now, between the eye
and the phantasm, some luminous object has after-
wards been placed, so' that rays reflected from it
might impinge on the same points of the retina
1Vhich weTe aft'ected by the spectre ; and the con-
~equence has been, that, like the phenomena of iJa..
• Nicholloa•a Joamat, 'fOI. 'li. p. 174.
,_
THE RETINA APFECTBD BY PHANTASMS. !!93
~ aensible impressions, actual rays oC light
havesucceeded in eft'acingfeelings which were ideal.
· This fact was proved in the case of an inhabitant of
the Scottish metropolis. He was conatant1y &DDoy-
ed by a spectral page, dressed like oneof the Lord
Commissioner's lacqueys, whom be always saw fol-
lowing close to his heels, whatever might be the oc-
cupation in which he was engaged. But to this
attendant soon aucceeded another no leu unremi:t:.
ting, but far more unwelcome retainer, in the form
of a frightful skeleton. An eminent medical prac-
titioner .of Edinburgh was the exorcist properly
called in, who, in the course of his interro'gatories,
inquired, if.at that very moment his patient saw
the spectre? The man immediately pointed to a
particular comer of the room where he alleged his
familiar was keeping guard. To this spot, therefore,.
the learned gentleman walked. " Now, do you see
the skeleton?" he asked. " How can 1," was the
reply, "when you are interposed between us?"-
Here, then, was a satisfactory indication that the
retina had been actually impressed by the imagi-
nary phantaam.-Soon, however, Fancy began her
work again ; for, with a sudden tone of exclama-
tion, that even inspired the philosopher himself
with momentary alarm, the man suddenly exclaim-
ed, "·Ay, now I see the skeleton again, for at this
very moment he is peeping at me from behind
your shoulders !"
294 IDEAS OF SOUND EXCITED:
I shall next observe, that there can be no doubt
but that the ear is likewise the medium through
which the past feelings of sound are renoyated.
In a case of delirium tremena which fell under my
own observation, the patient, during his conva-
lescence, was at intervals assailed~ as from an ad-
joining closet, by imaginary voices, distincdy arti-
culating certain expressions to him ; and when
thus addressed, he showed the same impatience at
being prevented by the clamour from listening to
some conversation that was going on in the room,
as if he had been disturbed by real sounds.
These are all the remarks I have to offer on the
indications afforded during intense excitements of
the mind,. that our susceptibility to sensations and
~eas depends upan similar circumstances of or-
ganic structure ; and hence, that past feelings are
renovated through the medium of organs of sensa-
tion. But a question may be put, if the same no-
tion does not lurk among other systemsofmetaphy-
sical philosophy which have been taught? " Idea,
in the old writers," says Dr Brown, "like the syoo-
nimous word pe-rceptUm at present, was expressiv.e,
not of one part of a process, but of two. parts of it.
It included, with a certain vague comprehensive-
ness, the organic change as well as. the mental,-
in the same way as perceptUm now implies a cer-
tain change produced in our organs of sense, and ll
consequent change in the state of th.e mind,,
_.,.. -- -- - --
- . - -~----------
CHAP. Xx,II.
THE CAUSES WHICH EXCITE ORGANS OF SENSA-
TION EXTEND THEIR VIVIFYING INFLUENCE
TO THE RENOVATED FEELINGS OF THE MIND.
' ' Perturbations and passions which trouble the Phantaaie, though
they ~wen between the confines of sense and reason, yet they
ra&her foDow sense than reason, because they ue drowned in cor-
poreal organs of sense." Af~Dtofr9 ofMeiMtcholy.
HtTBEB.To I have considered the phenomena of
spectral illusions in reference to agents which dif-
fuse their influence so generally throughout the
system as to act at one and the same moment of
time, though in different proportions, both on sensa-
tions and ideas. There is, indeed, no cal,lse ofmenq.l
excitement which, in this respect, exerts a more ex-
tensive influence over the mind than the nitrous
oxide. Its effect is to add an intensity of pleasure
to feelings which are themselves grateful, and to
diminish the vividness of painful sensations and
id~. Thus, we have traced the effect of this gas
in ~ndering all painful ideas so faint as to cease
being the object of consciousness; and, with regar<\
\
!96 GENERAL JIEJI.ARKS
to sensations considered distinctly, Sir Humphry
Davy has stated, that this agent, in its extensive
operation, is capable of destroying physical pain.
It may be then asked, Why are .sensations and
ideas canjointly afFected by adventitious or morbi-
fic excitements ? In attempting an answer to this
question1 I must advert to the opinion which I have
expressed in the last chapter, that past feelings are
renovated through the medium of organs of sensa
tion ; and, that as sensations and ideas depend
upon similar circumstances of organic structure,
any general stimul~s caloulatro to render actual
impreeeions more intense, can scarcely fail to- ex-
cite the renovated feelings of the mind.
,Such, therefore, being the reason why the ni-
trous oxide unif6rmly afFects our mental·statee, no
difliculty can surely remain in explaining, why the
ideas of sleep or of syncope, which are so faint as
not to be the objeet of consciousness, may he re~~­
dered vivid by stimuli that aet in~nsely on organs
oC sensation. We must, indeed, refer this pheno-
ll!lellon to the general states of thecirculatioft beiDg
distu!'bed by irritating causes ; in which caR, all
our- mental feelings correspond to the excitemeet
of the sanguineous fluid.
Ancient metaphysicians, however, often puaaled
their b:rains to explain, why causes, which aiFeeted
organs of touch only, should oeeasion the full ac-
til'ity of'thought. They conceived of eueh apts
BLOWS ·RBSCUCITATE IDEAS. 19'7
u-stimulating the blood in its purification and over-
heating,-a process supposed to take place in the
heart,-whereby the vital fluid was the 110011er
eoabled to throw off subtle vapours, which paged
immediately to the cavities of the brain. These
fumes, or animal spirits, as they were commonly
· named, then put into movement the little cerebral
gland, which is the eeat of the soul, and thereby
recalled or revived such species or ideas of things
as had been seen or heard formerly, and were
there, in a manner, buried. Hence the rationale of
the plan which Ralpho pursued, when he end~
voured to recover Hudibras from a fainting -fit
into which he had fallen ; he inflicted some severe
blowson the knight~s breast, which had the efFect of
stirring up or of stimulating the blood nearest the
heart, whereby animal spirits- were the sooner con-
cocted and enabled to make their escape from this
fluid to the brain, so as to act upon the pineal
gland, and assist it in resuscitating and liberating
a few ideas:
Then Ralpbo gently raised the knight,
ADd set him on his e11d upright :
To roue him from lethargic dump,
He tweak'd hill11010 ; with pt-19 tbmp-
Knoek'd on hia breast, as if't bad been
To raise the spirits lodgetl within :
They, waken'd with the nolle, did fty
Frmn inwud IOOID to window eye,
And gently opeaing licl, the CllleDllllt,
~·d out, bvt yet with IOille unazeDleDt.
:If!!
~-- .-....- . --- - . ~ -
. .---
--.......,-- ------
~ EXCITEMENT OF LANGUID FEELINGS.
But it is time to return to the more immediate
object of our investigation.
Having shewn that the effect of strong stimuli
applied to any organ, is not to excite sensations
alone,butlikewise the renovatedfeelings ofthemind,
this conclusion may assist us in reconciling the plan
resorted to, for a recovery from faint, as well as
from very intense states of the mind, which, prima
facie, seems to involve a eontradiction.
In attempting a sudden restitution to the waking
state, from sound sleep, from syncope, or from
dreaming, the vividness characteristic of watchful-
ness must fail to be induced, unless the individual
become subjected to impressions of that increased
degree of acuteness, which organs of diminished
sensibility require. But it is very remarkable,
that similar means should he employed, not exclu-
sively for the excitation, but even for the depres-
sion ofthose intense mental states which give rise to
spectral illusions. Two illustrations may be adduced
in proofofthis apparent anomaly, the first of which
is from an old dramatic author, who, from the inci-
dents ofcommon life, has but too faithfully depicted
the rough practices, not altogether unknown at the
present day, that are employed for the purpose of
stimulating the faint feelings of syncope :
Rut. Come, bring him out inte the air a little :
There set him down. Bow him, yet bow him more,
Daeh that eune glua of water in hie tac:e :
DEPRESSION OJ' INTENSE FEELINGS. !!99.
Now tweak him by ~ Dote. Hud, lwder yet:
If it but call the blood up from the heart
I ask no more. See, what a fear can do !
Pinch him in the nape of the neck now ; nip him, nip him.
Item. He feels, there's lite in him.
Palate. He groans and lltirs.
R.t. Oi' laim a bos, hard, hard on hla Jet\ ear.
]Iller~. 0 l
Rwt. How do you feel youneJf?
I nter'elt. Sore, sore !
Rut. But where ?
Interelt. I' my neck.
Rut. I nipt him there.
I.terut. And i' my head.
Rut. I bos'd him twice or thrice to move those sinewa.
Bioi. I swear you did.
Poluh. What a brave man's a doctor,
To beat one into health ! I thought his blows
Would e'en ha' kill'd him: he did feel no more
Than a great hone.•
With Doctor Rut's plan of excttmg feelings
when in an extreme languid state, may be com-
pared the mode (apparently self-same) that Cardan.
successfully employed, but with the opposite view
of reducing mental vividness, and thereby of dis-.
pelling the ecstatic illusions to which he was almost
daily subject. " I have found out," says this re.
markable man, " that I cannot exist witho~t a
• Magnetic Lady, by Ben Jo11110n, act 3. scene 4,,
.......__ _
: ·
- - - - ---
----------.......-
800 AJIPABBNT ANOIULY.
certain degree of pam; for when it altogether
ceases, I feel so impetuous a fury seize my mind,
that a moderate quantity of voluntary pain is much
more safe, and renders me much more respectable.
For this reason I bite my lips, distort wy fiugeJ'8,
pinch my skin, and the tender ieshy part of the
left arm, even to tears. Thus have I been able to
live without reproach."
From these two illustrations it is now, I trust,
sufficiently evident, that whether an increase of
mental vividness be meditated, as in the attempt to
rouse the languid feelings of syneope,-or, on the
contrary, whether a reduction of the intense ideas
of ecstatic illusions be· the object of medical treat-
ment, one common mode of practice appears to be
equally successful But it is.time that this ap-
parent anomaly should meet with an explanatiou.
Having shewn that causes which excite organs
of sensation extend their vivifying power to .re-
~ feelings, or ideas, it will be proper to
take a comparative view of the in1luenee thus ex-
erted, as it acts upon faint or intenae states of the
mind.
When causes which excite organs of sensation
act upon such faint feelings as occur during pel"-
t'ect sleep or syncope, we can seek for no farther
ixplanation, why a recovery from these conditions
"or lethargy should ensue, than by recurring to the
ultimate faet, that the cauees which l'ftlder actual
•
TWO VARIETIES OJ' ECSTASY. 8&1-
impteaiou or teDBations DlOl'e vivid, haTe even.
tually a teudeecy to make the renovated feelings
of the mind proportionally vivid.
But, on the other hand, when cauaes which ex-
cite organs of sensation act upon inteole states of
the mind, there are in this cue certain additional
circumstances to be considered, under which the
itdluence of such stimuli may be exerted. Detore
explaining these, however, it will be expedient to
_ recall the attention to a law, before noticed, re-
garding the effect which mental excitements have
upon consciousness. The law is thia : " When
a cause of mental excitement adda to the general
vividness of our pleasurable feelings, every feeq
of an oppotite quality is in an inverse proportion
rendered less vivid ; and, 'Vice vn'8a, the same law
holds good when a morbific agent adds to the
vividness of all our painful feelings."
In contemplating then the operation of this
law, there must evidently subaist two varietiee of
ecstasy.
One variety of ecstasy muct occur when the
cause of mental excitement, to which the aifection
is referable, has added to the vividness of pleasur-
able feelings, but has proportionally diminished
that of painful feel.iDgs; the general result beiDg,
that pleasurable feelings are rendered inordinately
intense, while painfulfeelings become 10 faint as to
cease being the object of mental cOIIsciousness.
SO! HOW AN ECSTASY IS INCllEASED.
Another; and a second variety of ecstasy must
occur, when the cause of meDtal excitement, to
which the affection is referable, has added to the
intensity of painful feelings, but has proportion-
ally diminished the vividness of pleasurable feel-
ings ; the general result being, that painful feel-
ings are rendered inordinately intense, while plea-
surable feelings become 80 faint as to be no longer
the object of mental consciousness.
It follows, then, that we must necessarily re-
gard such causes as may act upon organs of sen-
sation during an ecstasy, and may, by this means,
still farther influence the general feelings of the
mind, under two distinct points of view. ·
A cause which acts during an ecstasy upon
organs of sensation, may either dispense its vivi-
fying iniluence to that particular quality of feel-
ings, pleasurable or painful, which has been ren-
dered unduly intense ; or, on the other hand, it
may, by its proper action, dispense its vivifying
influence to any opposite quality of feelings,
which, in the same proportion, has been ren-
dered 80 extremely faint as not to be the object
of consciousness. Each of these conspiring cir-.
cumstances, then, it will be proper to consider.
In the fir8t place, a cause which acts during an
ecstasy upon organs of sensation, may, in its pro-
per action, be pleasurable, while the pleasurable,
HOW AN ECSTASY IS .REDUCED. 808
·feelings of the ecstasy to which it imparts its
vivifying influence may be those which have been
rendered unduly intense; or, again, a cause
which acts duting an ecstasy upon organs of sen-
sation, may~ in its proper action, be painful, while
t~e painful feelings, to which it imparts its vivify-
ing influence, may be those which have been ren-
dered unduly intense. Now, in each of these in-
stances, it is almost unnecessary to add, that the
effect must be to increase the force or violence.
of the ecstasy.
In the aecand place, the specific .influence im-
parted by any cause which acts during an -ecstasy
upon organs of sensation, may be of the same.
pleasurable or painful kind, as that class of feel-
ings may posssess, which has been rendered so
faint, as to be no longer the object of conscious-
ness. In this case, then, a different result will
ensue; for, by virtue of a law to which I have
often adverted, when any exciting cause of this
kind, during a continuous operation, extends its vi-
.vifying influence to such pleasurable feelings as
may have been rendered iu an extreme degree
faint, all intense feelings of an opposite or painful
quality must be proportionally rendered less in-
tense; and, again, when any exciting cause of the.
same irritating nature extendsits vivifying influence
to such painful feelings as may have been rendered
in an extreme degree faint, all intense feelings of an
304 ANOMALY EXPLAINBD.
opposite or pleasurablequality, must, in a aimilar
manner, be proportionally 'rendered less intense.
It ia evident, then, that by the revival of feelmga
which have been rendered unduly faint, and by
the reduction of feelings which have been render-
ed unduly intense, an ecstasy must be eventually
removed. Of this principle, then, Cardan, whose
ease bas suggested theee remarks, evidently availed
himself. Being of a sanguine temperament, his
ecstatic illusions were generally pleasurable, and
could only be rendered faint by exciting acute
aemations of an opposite or painful quality.
Lastly, we are taught from this instructive ex~
ample, that a real difference must subsist with
regard to the mode in which languid feelings are
excited, or intense ones depreBSed. If we would
impart to the faint feelings of sleep and syncope a
degree or vividness, such as subsists in our cool
waking hours, it is immaterial whether the acute
impressions to which the organs of sense are sub-
jected be pleasurable or painful. But if, on the
contrary, our view should be the depression of in- .
tense feelings, this object can be effected in no
other way, than by opposing to them the inBuence
of acute sensations, similar in their quality ofplea-
aure or pain to such states orthe mind as, during
th~ ecstasy, have been rendered proportionally
faint and languid. ·
CHAP. XXIII.
CAUSES ACTING ACUTELY UPON ORGANS OJ' 8BM-
SATION, WHEN UNREMITTINGLY PROLONGED,
OCCA.SIONALLY CHANGE THE QUALITY OF
THEIR ACTION, AS FROM PLEASURE TO PAIN,
OR FROM PAIN TO PLEASURE.
" The visage of a lwJsman friahta not me ;
The sight of whips, racks, gibbets, axes, fires,
.4.re acafFoldiDge by which my soul climb• up
To an eternal habitation."-M.uaJ:NGE•. •
IT has been shewn, page !39, that when sensatiou
and ideas are stimulated oonjointly, aud to au ex-
ceeaive degree, an ecstasy may ell8Ue which is
alternately pleasurable and painful. An ef'eet
apalagoous to this may occur, when organs ol
sensation alone are subjected to an acute exci~
ment, as the following remarkable case, which is to
be found in Dr Crichton's Dissertation on Mental
Derangement, suffi.cie~:~tly well illustrates. It is a
translation from the Gazette Literaire, published in
France. " An extraordinary young man, who lived
at P~ and who was passionately fond of me-
chanics, shut himself up one evening in his apart-
306 PAINFUL STATES BECOMING GRATEFUL.
ment, and bound not only his breast and belly,
but also his arms, legs, and thighs around with
ropes, full of knots, the ends of which he fastened
to hooks in the wall. After having passed a con-
siderable part of the night in this situation, he
wished to disengage himself, but attempted it in
vain. SOme neighbouring females, who had been
early up, heard his cries, and calling the assistance
of the patl'Ole, they forced open the door of his
apartment, where they found him swinging in the
air, with only one arm extricated. He was imme-
diately carried to the lieuten&nt-general of the ~
lice for examination, where he declared that he
had aft&n put similar trials into execution, as he
experienced indescribable pleasure in them. He
confessed that at first he felt pain, but that after
the cords became tight, he was soon rewarded by
the most exquisite sensations of pleasure."•
The foregoing illustration of the eft'ectofintense
excitements in opet·ating upon organs of sensation,
may assist us in explaining some incidents relative
to the spectral impressions of such individuals as,
in times of religious persecution, have been expo-
sed to all the cruelties which intolerant power could
devise. I shall observe, therefore, that when causes
which render senaations painfully acute have ac-
tually changed the nature of their operation, so as
• Crichton on Megtal Derangement, voL i. p. 132.
lI
GENERAL PRINCIPLES• 807
to induce pain instead of pleasure, this altered
quality of action may increase its range of in-
fluence, though still in a subordinate degree, by
_extending to ideas as well as to actual impres-
sions.
But before proceeding any farther in this inves-
tigation, a summary may be presented of the con-
clusions to which we have arrived in the foregoing
chapter, which may now be viewed in connexion
with the subject of the present invesligation.
It was considered, that in every ecstasy, either
pleasurable feelings were excited, and painful ones
depressed, or, vice versa, painful feelings were
excited, and pleasurable ones depressed.
A cause, then, which, by stimulating organs of
sensation, extends its vivifying influence to the re-
novated feelings of the mind, may modify an ec-
stasy in three ways :
1#, It may impart its vivifying inBuence to any
quality of feelings, pleasurable or painful, which
is rendered intense, and may thus increase the
force ~f the ecstasy.
!dig, It may impart its vivifying influence to
such pleasurable or painful feelings as are not
excited, but depressed; and by reducing, through
tlUs means, the intensity of the excited quality of
feelings, mayshorten theduration ofthe ecstasy; or,
5cQy, It may, if acutely and unremittingly p~
lonpd2 change the nature ofits action, as from plea,..
,,,, e' ,,Google
S08 BEATIFIC VISION OF THEODORU&
sure to pain, or from pain to pleasure. And if a
cause, thus operatingon organs ofsensa.tion, impart
ita peculiar vivifying influence of ·pleeaure o:r of
pain, to ideaa.which, from several causes, may par~
take of the self-same quality of pleasure or ofpain~
eeetatic illusions will not unfrequently be induced.
But if., on the contrary, the alteted quality of vi-
vifying influence imparted by irritating stimuli
should be of a .quality different to that of the
ideas which art' rendeted intense, no ee~Jtaay will
follow.
Having premised these genel'&l remarks, they
will now be illustrated by cues wherein causes ex~
citing organs of sense have changed the quality of
their operation, namely, from 'pain to pleasure;
and, hy extending their influence to ideas of a ai.. ·
milar pleasurable quality, have induced (what are
called) beatific visions.
h is recorded of The<Miorus, that, in pursuuace
of the orders of Julian the Apostate, he was un-
remittingly tortured, even by a change of execu.
tioners, for an interval of ten hours. But at
Jehgth the tyrant's engines of persecution ceued to
have their wonted effect ;-instead of inflictD.g
pain, the sellllltions which they induced were of a
grateful description, and, eventually, they extend-
their influence to the renovated feelings of the
.mind. 'fhe thoughts of this firm Christian had
dwelt upon that blessed state ofimmortality which
BEATIFIC VISION OF THEODOllUS. 809
was promised as a reward to those who were pre-
pared to lay down their lives for the sacred cauee
they had espoused ; and the indication of this state
of mind was the subject of his illusions. Theo-
dorus has related, that while he was under the
hands of the executioners, he was cheered by the
aspect of a bright youth, conceived by him to be
a messenger from heaven, who allayed his auft'er.
ings by wiping the perspiration from his body,
and by pouring cool water upon his irritated limbs.
At length~ as he has lik-ewise affirmed, he felt no
pain at all. . This confession has been supposed to
afFord a satisfactory explanation, why the sufferer
continued on the scaffold, in the sight of all men,
smiling, and even singing, until it was thought ex.
pedient to take him down. Ruflinus, to whom we
are indebted for this narrative, remarks, that he
had subSequently many conversations with Theo..
dorus touching his supernatural interposition,
(for such it was readily conceived to be,) and
that the martyr uniformly aasured him, that he
was so comforted and confirmed by it in the faith,
that he could not but regard the hours which he
passed under the hands of the torturer», as of a
delectable rather than as of a painful character.
Such is the eiFect which takes place when causes
of acute suffering are unremittingly proloaged, and
when their iniluence, which has become grateful,
,,,. e' ,,Google
810 BEATIFIC VISION OF GREGORY.
is imparted to ideas of an equally grateful de-
scription.
An incident, similar to the foregoing, is recorded
by La Trobe in the history which he has given of
the Moravians. He relates, " That about the year
1468, the Brethren in Lititz, founders of the MO:
ravians, did not cease to send to all, places to
strengthen the persecuted in the faith, and to ex-
hort them to patience. Among others, Gregory,
nephew of Rokyzan, the .Archbishop of Prague,
came to Prague ; but upon his having just held a
meeting, he was surprised on a sudden, and, to-
gether with some others, committed to prison by
the judge or justice, with these afFecting words :-
' It is written, all that will live godly in Christ
Jesus shall suffer persecution ; therefore follow
me, by command ·of the higher powers!' Under
the rack he fell into a swoon ; during which, it is
said, he had a vision of the three men, who were,
six years after, elected the first bishops of the
Brethren. They appeared as ·the guardians of a
blooming tree, on the fruit of which many lovely
singing-birds were feeding."
But examples of this kind have been so fre-
quently recorded, that poets have even attempted
to dramatise them. Thus, Massinger, in his play
of the Virgin Martyr :
THEOPRJLUS•
•••••••••••••••••• 'Til not f'or lif'e I aue for,
ILLUSTRATION FRO.l\l MASSINGER. 311
Nor ia it fit that I, thst ne'~ knew pity
To any Chriatian, being one myself,
Should look for any ; no, I rather beg
The utmost of your cruelty ; I stand
Accountable fo~ thoueand Christian deaths ;
And, were it possible tha~ I could die
A day for every one, then live again,
To be again tormented, 'twere to me
An easy penance, and I should pasa through
A gentle cleansing fire ; but that denied me,
It being beyond the strength of feeble nature,
My suit ia, you would have no pity on me.
In mine own house there are a thousand engines
Of studied cruelty, which I 4id prepare
For miaerable Christians ; Ie• me feel,
As the Sicilian did his brazen bull,
The horrid'st you can find, and I will say,
In death, that you are merciful.
DIOCLESIAN.
Despair not,
In this thou shalt prevaiL Go fetch them hither :
Death shall put on a thousand.sbapes at once,
And so appear before thee ; racks and whips !-
Thy flesh, with burning pincers tom, shall feed
The fire that heats them ; and what's wanting to
The torture of thy body, I'll supply
In punishing thy Inind. Fetch all the Christians
That are in hold ; and here, before hla face,
Cut them in pieces.
THEOPHILUB,
'Tis not in thy power :
It was the first good deed I ever did.
They are removed out of thy reach ; howe'er
I was determined for my sins to die,
...
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
Slt ILLUii"RATION FB.OM JI.USINGBR.
I lint took order for tall liberty,
And still I dare thy worat.
DIOCJ.JtiUJI'.
Bind bim1 I eay ;
Make every artery and Binew crack :
The alave that makes him give the lo'udeet shriek
Shall have ten thouaand draehmaa 1 wretdll I'D Curee thee
To c:une the Power thou wonbip'at.
TBEOl'BIJ.us.
Never, never:
No breath of mine aball e'er be spent on him,
(Tiley tort7umt him.
But what aballspeak his llll\iesty or merey.
I'm honour'd in my sufferings. Weak tormentors,
More tortures, more :-alaa ! you are unakilful-
For heaven's sake, more; my breast is yet untorn 1
Here purchase the reward that was propounded.
The iron'a c:ool,-here are arms yet, and thighs ;
Spare no part of me.
MAXIHINUS.
He eadurea beyond
The auft'enmee ofa man.
SAPJlJTIUS.
No sigh nor groan,
To witness he hath feeling.
DIOCJ.ESIAlf.
Harder, YiDaina I
l!t~ter Do•oT&EA itt • •~fte robe, a cn~~m t1p01t Air Mtul, 1ft f•
&., AlrGBJ.O ; ANTONINUB, C.UI8TA, llflll C&ti8TBTA Jbl-
lowilrg, all itt ~. but lt# ,..,_,; ANGELO 1uJ1tU Otlt I
ff'OIIIIt to TBBOPBIJ.VI.
TlrEOt'&lJ.VI.
Moat clorioua vision !-
Did e'er 10 bud a bed yiel4 man a dream
a
GENERAL CONCLUSION. 313
So heavenly as this? I am confirm'd,
ConJirm'd, you blessed spirits, and make baste
To take that crown of immortality
_You oWer to me. _ Death, till this blest minute,
I never thought 'thee slow-paced; nor would I
Hasten thee now, for any pain I sufFer.
But that thou keep'st me from a glorious wreath,
Which through this stormy way I could creep to,
And, humbly kneeling, with humility wear it.
Oh ! now I feel thee :-blesaed spirits ! I come ;
And witness for me all these wounds and eears,
I die a toldier in the Christian wars. (Diu.
But it is unnecessary to dwell longer upon such
painful descriptions. All tormentors of human
victims, whether residing among the savage wilds
of the western continent, or within the walls of an
European inquisition, but too well know, that if
they would prolong the duration of their medi-
tated inflictions, they must occasionally allow their
victims a brief respite. It is, indeed, evident, that
acute sensations of this kind, when assiduously and
unremittingly inflicted, not only fail in their ob-
ject, but occasionally prove grateful in their effects.
Nor is the influence restricted to actual impres-
sions ;-ideas partake of this pleasurable exci~
ment, and become so stimulated, as not unfrequent-
ly to induce ecstatic illusions.
0
814
CHAP. XXIV.
WHEN RENOVATED FEELINGS OF THE MIND ARE
EXCLUSIVELY EXCITED.
" Men must acquire a very peculiar and strong habit of turning '
their eye inwards, in ordeT to explore the intet'ior regioua and
recesses of the HilfD_:.the hollow cavet'DS of deep thought-.
the private seats of fancy-and the wastea and wildernesses,
as well as the more ftouitful and cultivated ttacts of thia oblcure
climate." LollD SBAFT..traY.
WE are now literally entering on the investigation
' of what the French metaphysicians. name ~'
a subject, which, from the manner it has been
treated, has recently incurred a censure that it
too well deserves. " Ideology is, no doubt, a part
of human physiology; but it has far outgrown its
parent science in point of extent, and is still far
inferior to it in the means of vermeation. Let
the metaphysician always avail hintselt of.the ex-
periments of physiology as far as he il able ; ·but
let not the physiologist imagine that he can ever
derive a reciprocal assistance from metaphysics.
It is possible, however, to transfer credulity from
RECAPITULATION. 815
· one extreme to the other ;-to yield a faith as im-
plicit to the pro~JoJJUitiea of the scientific physiolo-
gist, as is usually required for the dogmas of
pneumatology."*
These are, indeed, excellent remarks, from the
just severity of which I_can scarcely flatter myself
with the prospect of an entire escape. The dis.
cussion will be, however, hazarded.
This investigation has hitherto been conducted
upon the principle, that the various degrees of vi-
vidness of which our mental states are susceptible,
correspond to certain conditions of the ang uineous
system ; and that the natural source of the excite-
ment which is imparted to the circulation, and of
the corresponding vividness which the feelings of
the mind receive, is attributable to the influence
of the brain and nerves.
·In the next place, several proofs were adduced
in support of the conclusion, that organa of sen-
sation were the common medham through which
aetual impressions were induced, and past feelings
were renovated.
According, •hen, to this view, every organ of
feeling, which is no less the organ of ideas than of
sensations, must be con&idered as supplied with its
own vital fluid, and as more or less influenced
by nervous matter. To the ~ariolis stimulated
• Notes on Mapndie'a Physiology, by Dr..~· See his
tranalation of tbia work, page 423.
316 EACH ORGAN OF FEELING SUPPLIED
conditions, therefore, iJ?cidental to the vascularity
of each organ of feeling, the vividness of sensations
and ideas corresponds.
But I cannot help suspecting that each organ of
feeling is affected by two descriptions 'of nerVes,
which are more to be ascertained by their ulti-
mate effects on the mind, than by anatomical ob-
servation :-that nerves of one description derive
their origin from the external surface of the organ
of feeling which they supply, and pass from thence
to the brain or spinal cord ; these exclusively af-
fecting sensations :-that nerves of another descrip-
tion have their origin in the brain and spilial ~rd,
and being from thence dispersed to the self.:same
organ of sensation, separately contribute to the
renovation of past feelings.
The two distinct occasions, however, on whi~b
nerves arc excited, chiefly indicate that two descrip-
tions of them may exist. One set seems excited by
the actual contact of material objects, when it im-
parts to the particular organ that it supplies, the
degree of nervous influence necessary for the pro-
duction of sensations. Another set of nerves never
imparts its influence, but when excited by that ul-
timate law of the mind, which ordains,-that the
repetition of a definite sensation shall be followed
by a renovation of the past feelings with which it
was before associated.
This notion of each organ of feeling being sup-
..
WITH TWO DESCRIPTIONS OF NERVES. 317
plied with two descriptions of nerves, seems to be
necessary for the explanation of numerous cases of
phantasms originating from disease, where it is
evident that an exciting action has been exclusively
confined to the vivifying of renovated feelings.
For, in a proper ecstasy, where sensations as well
as ideas are affected, spectral illussions never fail
to be accompanied with intense actual impressions,
--such as acuteness of touch, and intolerance of
light or 8ound.•
Yet there is a circumstance requiring explana-
tion,-why an unremitting application of irritat-
ing causes that stimulate the particular nerves on
which sensations depend, should excite those other
nenes which impart vividness to the past feelings
that may be renewed? Now this efFect can only be
explained by an irritating cause, which primarily
operates upon organs of feeling, eventually influ-
encing the whole of the circulation,-to the varied
conditions of which, the general vividness of sensa-
tions and ideas holds a more immediate correspond-
ence, than to states of the nervous system.
The nerves, which exclusively impart to reno-
• The pbantaama of an ecstasy are far more intense than when
ideaa are exclusively excited.
" Behold from far a breaking cloud appears;
Which in it many winged warriors bean 1
Their glory shoots upon my aking sense :-
Thou, JIWD!er, mayst endure the flood of light."
,,,, e' ,,Google
•
318 NERVES WHICH EXCITE IDEAS ALONE,
'
~feelings snch an intensity as to induce actual
impressions, seldom continue their action for a
long time without remission. Thus, in a caae of
delirium tremem, which came under my notice, the
intense revivals of past feelings of touch, or the
distinct tones of voice which vibrated in the mor-
bid ear, "like no mortal sounds," or the
_" Forma without bodies, and impassive air,"
that flitted before the sight, were not uninterrupt-
edly continued, as during an ecstasy, but impres-
sed the senses with evident remissions. The patient
had, therefore, an opportunity of comparing his
phantasies with the place in which he was stationed,
and with the objects around him, so as to obviate·
the force of his illusion by the faculty ofjudgment.
Nor do causes which exclusively vivify the recol-
lected images of the mind constantly occupy the
entire surface of any particular organ of feeling.
The past impression of a landscape may be reno-
vated on the whole of the retina, when a complete
illusion of sight will occur, or a part of it only may
occupy a corresponding portion of the seat of vi-
sion. The figure will then appear to possess a place
antong natural and real objects, partaking with
them of a .similar degree of vividness, and benet'
be mistaken for an actual impression.
I shall now attempt a description of the various
degrees of excitement incidental to id~ when
•
FIRST STAGE OP EXCITEMENT. . 3)t
exclusively renderecj. intense, premising, howe,.,., '
that such gradations are to be chiefly diatioguim'"
ed when the vision is affected. ·
, >
18t Stage 9fExcitement.
By a principle ofthe mind,pure~ i'Oiellectt~Rl, the
impressions which may at any time be induced on
the seat of vision, suggest the notion of groups qf
sensible figures, each varying in hue and intensity,
and each included in a distinct outline. While this ·
mental operation is going on, each afFected point of
the retina becomes subject to a law, (the conside-
ration of which would detain us too long} whereby
its vividness is considerably modified. The efFect
is as follows :
The nerves which impart their influence to visual
sensations, first render more vivid those impressed
points of the retina which give rise to the outlines
of forms, and then extend their influence to the in-
terior and ~ntral points of each figure. Thus,
when we survey a landscape composed of such '
multifarious objects as woods, mountains, houses,
or lakes, it will be found, that the outlines of each
of these visible forins first become distinct, or
bright, and that this distinctness or vividness is in
each of them gradually propagated to the interior
or central parts of the figure.
· In a short time, however, the outlines ofeach ¥>rm
which may have been impressed on the retina, be-
•
320 OUTLINES OF PHANTASMS INDUCED.
come less clear to the vision, while the interior im-
pressed points become more distinct. This fact
indicates, that the vivifying influence has extended
to the centre of the visual form. The process of
excitement then gradually subsides. The faint-
ness which bas commenced at the outline of the
figure, •extends itself to the interior, so as to con-
vey the notion of a gradual evanescence, until a
more general indistinctness becomes the ultimate
result.
Such is the vivifying influence imparted by that
description of optic nerves, which is exclusively
concerned with actual impressions. We may, there-
fore, advert to the apparent action of anotbet set
of nerves given to the organ of vision, with the
view that past feelings should be renovated on the
surface of the retina.
Past feelings never begin to be renovated upon
the surface of the retina, until the outlines of such
figures as are form~ by the.actual impressions of
luminous bodies have become evanescent. It is,
therefore, on such parts of the seat of vision as
have ceased to be a1Fected by particles of light,
that the recollected images of the mind may be
·traced. Hence, when any morbific stimulus gives
an undue degree of intensity to the nerves which
assist in renovating past feelings, the outlines of
such ideal figures as arise by the law of association
appear to be formed on the fading outlines of sen.
- L---
*
SECOND STAGE OF EXCITEMENT. 321
sible forms. " I do not remember," says a writer
on phantasms produced by disease, in an extract
which I have before quoted, "by what gradation it
was, that the frequently changing appearances
before the sight gave place to another mode of de-
lusive perception, which lasted for several days.
All the irregularly figured objects, such as the
curtains or clothes, were so far transformed, that
they seemed to afford outlines of figures, of faces,
animals, flowers, and other objects, perfectly mo-
tionless, somewhat in the manner of what fancy, if
indulged, may form in the clouds or in the cavity
of a fire; but much more complete and perfect,
and not to be altered by steady observation or ex-
amination. 'rhey seemed to be, severally, as per- ·
feet as the rest of the objects with which they were
combined, and agreed with them in colour and
other respects., (See page 63.)
fld Stage 9fExcitement.
A second stage of excitement is induced when
the nerves, upon which the renovation of past feel-
ings depends, have exerted such an influence upon
a revived figure~ that the vividness has been gra-..
dua~Jy extended, until, upon the faded outlines of
sensible forms, a complete fantastical image has
been formed.
The unduly vivified ideas which characterize
o2
-
3!!! SECOND STAGE OF EXCITEMENT'.
this still inferior stage of excitement, are eaaily
dispelled by strong sensations. They are, there-
fore, the most liable to occur when organs ofvision
are not exposed to actual impressions.
But I shall now give a few illustrations of phan-
tasms of this class.
Dr Crichton, in his excellent Treatise on Men·
tal Derangement, has remarked, " that patients,
when they first begin to rave in fevers, only do so
when the room is darkened, or when they shut
their eyes : upon opening their eyes, or upon be-
ing allowed to see a good deal of light, th~ deli-
rium goes oft'; and, recollecting what things they
saw, and their influence, they often remark, of
their own accord, that they are sure they were
wandering or raving."
Another illustration is the case of the late Dr
Fer~ar, which he has reported of himself. "Ire-
member," says this writer, " that about the age of
' fourteen, it was a source of great amusement to my-
self, if I had been viewing any interesting object
in the course of the day, such as a romantic ruin,
a fine seat, or a revie\'IC of a body of troops, as soon
as evening came on, if I had occasion to go into a
.dark room, the whole scene was brought before my
eyes, with abrilliancy equal to what it had pos-
sessed in daylight, and remained visible for several
minutes. I have no doubt, that dismal and
frightful images have been presented to young
PHANTASMS EASILY DISPELLED. 828
persons after scenes of domesticailliction, or publiC
horror."•
Now, with regard to the last illusion, I shall
remark, that an affection of this kind is by no
means so liable to occur to young persons as, from
the foregoing narrative, we might be led to sup-
pose ; and, hence, there is every reason for the
suspicion, that some slight morbific cause, operating
on the vividness of ideas, might have so increased
the usual degree of intensity which pleasurable
emotions are known to impart to youthful feelings,
as, by a joint influence of this kind, to have disposed
the mind to spectral impressions.
But the facility with which phantasms of a sub-
ordinate degree of intensity are dispelled, is most
successfullyexplained byanother philosophicalaeer.
" When my attention," he observes, " was strongly
fixed on the idea of an absent place or thing, the ob-
jects ofsensation and of delirium were less perceived
or regarded. When the mind was left in a passive
or indolent state, the objects of delirium were most
vivid, and the objects of sensation, or real objects
in the room, could not be seen. But when, by a
-sort of exertion, the attention was roused, the
phantasms became, as it were; transPa.rent, and
the objects of sensation were seen as if through
• Ferriu on Apparitiolll, page 16. •
824 THIRD STAGE OF EXCITEMENT.
them. There was not the least difficulty in ren-
dering either object visible at pleasure, for the
phantasms would nearly disappear while the atten-
tion was steadily fixed on the real objects."•
The transparency of these phantasms was evi-
dently owing to their ceasing in part to affeet the
sensibility of the seat of vision, and to those points
of the retina which were impressed by vivid objects
actually present, beiug mingled with the dim and
fading images that had been renovated;
. Many of the phantasms which Nicolai, the
Prussian philosopher, saw, were not the result of
mental feelings possessing an extreme degree of
intensity. They were, therefore, diminished in
this respect by pleasurable feelings of a very mo-
derate degree of vividness; such, for instance,
as those which resulted from social intercourse.
Accordingly, Nicolai remarks, that when he was
at any other person's house, the phantasms which
haunted him were less frequent, and when he
walked the public street, they very seldom ap-
peared.
3d Stage qfExcitement.
There can be no doubt but that ideas of sight,
or of hearing, are most liable to be unduly vivified
at the time when the particular organ from which
• Nicholaon'a Jo111'1181, vol :n. p. t92.
PHANTASMS NOT EASILY DISPELLED. 826
they are derived is least exposed to sensible im-
pressions. For this reason, visual phantasms and
illusions of mind very frequently occur during the
darkness or complete stillness of night. " Many
people," says Dr Crichton, "previous to the at-
tack of delirium, if they shut their eyes so as to
exclude the light of external objects, immediately
see, as it were, a crowd of horrid faces, and mon-
sters of various shapes, gritllling at them, or dart-
ing forward at them. As soon as they open their
eyes all these phantasms vanish." But it may be
observed, that while this case proves that ideas of
vision are liable to acquire an additional degree of
intensity when the retina is least exposed to actual
sensations, and indicates what may be considered
as a powerful conspiring cause in the production
of apparitions, it does not, at the same time, alford
us the least assurance, that by exposing the re-
tina to the presence of light, they will olway1
be dispelled. On the contrary, it is more consist-
ent with real experience to consider, that during
the time when the mind is actually under the in-
fluence of a spectral illusion, the single or com-
bined influence of its conspiring causes, or of any
vivid emotion by which the impression is aided,
may be so far increased, that the restoration of
light, and the counteracting power it exercises, will
be found totally inadequate to the proposed expul.
sion of the phantasms. ·
8!6 THIRD STAGE OF EXCITEMENT.
But, in opposition to :he assertion, that light
always.dispels such illusions, an anonymous wri-
ter has given the result of his own experience.
Regarding the lively phantasms that were occa-
sioned by a symptomatic fever, he remarks, "It
was in my recollection, that Hartley, in his work
upon man, adopts a theory, that ·the visions of
fever are common ideas of the memory, recalled
in a system so irritated, that they act nearly with
the same force as the o~jects of immediate .sen~
tion, for which they are mistaken ; and therefore
it is," says he, " that when delirium first begins,
if in the dark, the effect may be suspended by
bringing in a candle, which, by illumination, gives
the due preponderance to the objects of senae.
This, however, I saw was manifestly unfound-
ed."*
I shall now observe, that each of these opposite
statements meets with an alternate support from the
experience of Nicolai, whose remarks on the spec-
tral figures which he saw are as follows :-" It is
to be noted, that these figures appeared to me at
all times, and under t.he most different circum-
stances, equally distinct :and clear, whether I
was alone, or in company, by broad daylight
equally as in the night time, in my own as well as
in my neighbour's house. When I shut my eyes,
• Nicholson's .Journal, vol. n. p. 2~.
s
- - ---~--~-
PHANTASMS .NOT EASILY DISPELLED. 8!'2'
sometimes the figures disappeared, sometimes they
remained even after I had closed them. If they
vanished, as in the former case, on opening my
eyes again, nearly the same figure appeared which
I had seen before."*
Such are the opposite circumstances incidental
to spectral illusions which have been reported by
this acute observer, and hence the reason I have
for inferring, that phantasms appear under very
different degrees of vividness, and that they there-
by indicate corresponding stages of mental excite-
ment.
The character, then, of the 3d stage of mental
excitement is, that the illusions which are inci-
dental to it cannot be dispelled by ordinary em~
tions, or by sensations of an ordinary degree of
intensity.
A summary may now be given of the principles
.which have been inculcated in this chapter.
Each organ of feeling is supposed to be affected
by two descriptions of nerves, which are excited
on different occasions.
While the first set is excited by actual impres..
sions made upon organs of feeling, the I!('Cond set
• Nicolai on Spectres occuioned by Diaeaae.-NichoUon'1 Jour-
nal, voL vi. p. 168.
S!S RECAPITULATION.
only exercises its influence upon ideas, agreeably
to the Jaw of association.
It is easy to conceive of each of these descrip-
tions of nerves being simultaneously stimulated, as
through the medium of the circulating fluid, when
it is in a general state of excitement. In this case
the phenomena of various ecstasies indicate, that
while sensations and ideas are severally increased
in intensity, the nerves connected with the renova-
tion of past feelings act more forcibly than those
which are connected with actual impressions.
In the next place, when ideas ape exclusively
rendered unduly intense, three stages of excite-
ment may give rise to spectral impressions, which
are then unattended by any such increased sensibi-
lity of touch, hearing, vision, &c. as is common to
ecstatic illusions.
In the first stage of excitement, nothing more
than the outlines of the recollected images of the
mind are rendered as vivid as external impressions.
In the secood stage, phantasms of perfect form
are induced, these being, however, easily dispel-
led by acute sensations or vivid emotions.
In the third stage, the phantasms induced are
not easily dispelled by acute sensations or vivid
emotions.
CHAP. XXV.
PHANTASMS MAY ARISE FROM IDEAS OF WHICH
THE MIND WOULD OTHERWISE HAVE BEEN
CONSCIOUS OR UNCONSCIOUS.
Those outward organs present things receive ;
This inward sense doth absent things retain ;
Yet straight transmits all forms abe doth pereeive,
Unto an higher region of the brain.
Where fantasy, near handmaid to the mind,
Sits, and beholds, and doth disc~m them all,
Confounds in one, things dilferent in their kind ;
Compares the black and white, the great and smalL-
This buay power is working day and night ;
For when the outward senses rest do take,
A thouaand dreams, fantastical and light,
With fl.utt'ring wings, do keep her still awake.
Yet always all may not afore her be;
Successively she this and that intends;
Therefore such forms as she doth cease to see,
To memory's large volume abe commends.
SIB. Jo&N DAVIEI.
I SHAt.L now attempt to explain other laws of
consciousness which are materially involved in the
circumstances under which phantasms arise. The
investigation, however, is difficult, a proofof which
880 NICOLAI'S PERPLEXITIES.
is, that, from not prosecuting it, considerable di~
turbance seems to have been given to the specu-
lations of those, who have endeavoured to explain,
upon established metaphysical principles, the ori-
gin of apparitions.
Nicolai, the philosophical seer of Berlin, who
was long under the influence of spectral impres-
sions, offers the following remarks on his own case :
" I observed these phantasms of the mind with
great accuracy, and very often reflected on my
previous thoughts, with a view tO discover some
law in the association of ideas by which exactly
these or other figures might present themselves to
the imagination. Sometimes I thought I had
made 'a discovery, especially in the latter period of
my visions; but, on the whole, I could trace no
oonnexion which the various figures that thus a~
peared and disappeared to my sight, had either
with my state of mind, or with my employment
and the other thoughts which engaged my atten-
tion. After frequent accurate observations on the
subject, having fairly proved and maturely con-
sidered it, I could form no other conclusion on the
cause and consequence of such apparitions, than
that, when the nervous system is weak, and at the
same time too much excited, or rather deranged,
· similar figures may appear in. such a manner as
if they were actually seen and heard ; for these
viaions in my case were nQt the OODSequeoce of
PAST FEELINGS ALWAYS RENEWABLE. 881
any known law of reason, of the imagination, or
of the otherwise usual association of ideas."•
Such were the difficulties that pressed theJD-
selves upon the mind of Nicolai, in endeavouring
to account for the mysterious introduction of the
fantastic visitants, by whom he was almost hourly
surrounded. In the attempt, therefore, which I
shall make to obtain some satisfaction on this head,
it will be first necessary to inquire,-how far we are
entitled, on every occasion, to seek for an explaoa.
tion of such phenomena in the well-known law
of the association of ideas.
It has been before shewn, that when a number
of sensations occur in succession, the repetition of
any one .of them would recall in their original or-
der, yet in a less vivid state, the feelings by which
they were followed. To this law was affixed the
usual term ofthe a~aociatioo l!fideas. But a quea.
tion now arises, If ideas, of which we are at any one
moment of time totally unconscious, be still liable
to recur agreeably to the law of usociation r The
hypothetical answer which I should be disposed to
give is this:-that past!eelings, even should they be
those of our earliest moments of infancy, never
cease to be under the operation of this principle,
and that they are constantly liable to be reJlOoo
• Nicolai on Spectres oceaaioned by Dileale. Niclwlfon'• Jour.
11111, voL 'ri. p. 167.
38i TENDENCY OF FEELINGS TO DECREASE
vated, though they should not be the objeet of
consciousness, at the Jatest period of our life.
According to this view, any past impression of the
mind never becomes, as it were, extinct. Yet,
amidst the incalculable quantity of ideas whichare
rapidly succeeding to each other, the amount of
those that are vivified to such a degree as to be the
object of consciousness, must fall far short of the
actual number of such, as, from their extreme
faintness, are no longer recognised.
After these remarks, I shall advert to another
principle of the mind deservi!Jg consideration,
which is this: feelings llfanypartiC'I.iUJ;r descriptWn
M' auJQect are liable to be.frequently renovated, and
there is a natural tendency in the samefeelings, em
each occasion o/their renewal, to become graduaJJy
more and more faint.• The law which partially
counteracts this tendency, will be explained at the
close of the present chapter.
I shall now suppose, that certain sensations have
been induced sufficiently vivid to excite mental
• A tendency of this kind dift'en in degree in difFerent incH.
vidilala. Thus, in the Psychological Magazine of Genilally,
there ia a narrative of a girl, whoee ideas must have declined nry
elowly from their original state of vividneaa. After having listeDecl
but once, to the longest song, she could repeat it verbatim, and
with equal accuracy could not only rebeane the whole of any ser-
mlln she might bear at church, but was even found to preserve the
fAlCllection of it after the intervlll of a year bad expimL
IN VIVIDNESS WHEN RENEWED. 888
conscious!less ; and, that the renovated feelings,
named ideaa, which correspond to them, sustain,
upon each occasion of their renewal, a gradual
diminution from their original degree of vividness.
The result which, agreeably to the general doc-
trine.I have inculcated, will ensue, may be readily
anticipated. Any train of ideas must, in the
course of its undisturbed depression, be eventu-
ally reduced to states far too faint to be the
object of our consciousness.
In order, however, to render this law as intelli-
gible as possible, I subjoin the following
TABULAR VIEW.
Mode in which a Train or Association of Ideas,
uninterrupted by Sensations, is supposed to uni-
formly decrease in Vividness.
Aesociated Train of Ideas.
o.a-·f
Vhldneu Pr.trioUI bt Slap 2d Stage 3d Stage 4th Slap 5th St...
Faint· Selulatioo.. of Depree- of Deprel- of Depree. ot Dep.,... of Depra-
neu. tlon. don. aloa. tlon. Ilea.
7 Senaation
6 Ideas
.s
4
3
't
I~
~~
1~
0
- MODE IN WHICH A TRAIN OF IDEAS
Such is the mode in which a train of past feel-
ings would decrease in vividness, if the original
sensations, of which they are revivals, had possess-
ed any uniform degree of vividness, lpld if there
had been no excitements in6uencing at the time
the ideas of the mind. But I ought to add, that
from so many disturbing cauees, which have a
tendency to irregullll'ly vivify the recollected im-
ages of thought, no actual illustration can be af-
forded of this principle, that in a strict sense is
exempt from sources of fallacy.
From an inspection of the foregoing table, the
law which I have laid down may be explained in
terms somewhat different to those which I have
used, and, perhaps, with some advantage to the
proper subject of~ inquiry.
It has been repeatedly stated, that upon the' re-
petition of any definite sensation, there is not only
a renewal of the past feelings with which this sen-
sation was formerly associated, (their renovation
taking place agreeably to their priororder) but that
the number of ideas thus renewable may be pro-
longed to an incalculable extent. I may now add,
that the train which is induced only meets with
interruption from some new sensation, and with it,
from some new succession of renovated feelings.
It may therefore be observed, that there i8, creteris
paribus, a general tendenc!J in every unintetnpted
aaiOCia&n t?f ideal to d8crease m 'Di'Dtdnen' tlle
GRADUALLY BECOJUS MORE F.AINT. 886
dlminutm keepMg pace antA tAe e.nem to roTNck
t~ train ia pro1nnged.
1.'his law will explain the purport of our next
investigation, which relates to such incidents of
spectral illusions as are connected with the natural
tendency of the ideas that form an aseociated train
to gradually fade, or, in other words, to become
more faint. I shall therefore proceed upon the
general view, that if a train of ideas be not pre-
maturely inteiTUpted, the close of it will always be
found to consist of renovated feelings that are too
faint to be the object of coneciousness.
Such being the subject of our present inquiry,
a second reference may be made to the foregoing
tabular view, which is merely intended to convey
a very general notion of the principle I would
establish,--that there is a tendency in ideas.to fade,
the diminution of vividness keeping pace with the
extent to which a series of revived impressions is
prolonged. But by consulting the table, it will be
seen, that when a train of uninterrupted ideas is,
as it were, lengthened out, it must :u.aturally in-
elude two varieties of re!lovated feelings.
Of one variety of ideas the mind is absolutely
oooscious. This particular variety forms the first,
or .Preceding part of a sequence of renovated feel-
ings.
Of another variety of ideas the mind is unconsci-
ous, and this faint description of them is to be
found in the remaining part of the train.
SM rDEAif~XGfftn,'(M lf'IIICIVWJJ ...vw
>f·shllUnext•ri:!Uia.rk, dtat·a cao•·ol •••l:---
citement, adventitious, or truly morbific,..,.-~
mence its vivifying inBuence upon the mental feel-
ings during any intA:?rVal of·time that the mind is not
susceptible of actual impressions. This opemtiol}
may then· involve any one of the two following
circumstances of excitement :
Fit·at, An exciting cause may commence its in-
fluence, when the ideas, which form the concluding
part of an unintel'rupted train of ·renovaud. feel..
ings, are becoming so faint as to cease being the
object of consciousness.
Secontlly, An exciting cause may commence its
influence more premature1y, or before a train of
ideas can have so much decreased in vividness as to
cease being the object of consciousness.
These two circumstances of excitement will be
considered in succession.
. ...•
SECTION I.
The Influence r?f'Di'Di.fying Causes upoo Ideas, r?f
wkich we should otkeruJiae have been Unco'1Uctoru.
I shall now suppose, that a cause of mental ex-
citement has commenced its influence upon a.se-
quence of ideas, but not until the train has ~u-
.ally sunk into a degree of faintness so extreme, as
to cease being the object of consciQusne.. A
tabl~ the E!X~t reverse of the last gi~e~., ~- ~en
shew the mode in which the concludmg part of
thia tr~ of renovated feelings is liable to such an
•
()TJIBB.WISB BAVB ¥EN UNOOMI4JI(M1& 88'T
excitement, as at length to be tbe oiject el con-
scWUlplel&
TABULAR VIEW,
Explaining the Influence of a vivifying Cause upon
the concluding Part of a Train of Ideas, of
which we should otherwise have been uncon-
scious.
Operation of a vivifying Cause.
Ideas
IdeM
ldeu
Ideas
I trust the above table will sufficiently explain
the progressive mode, in which a morbific cause of
excitement may restore to a vivid state of con-
sciousness faint ideas, of which we should otherwise
have been unconscious.
But this effect of a mental excitement will meet
with a striking illustration, when we connect it
with the law to which I have just adverted, name-
ly, that past feelings, even should they be those of
p
• -~...,~1);-Uf 1P'Jit(JHWJ..ULD
RtPl~-~u·otmt~~ ~ceueto.be
UDder the iDB;uence of the law of 8&80diatiob; .~­
~t they are constantly liable to be renovated,
e;v.tiln to the latest ~riod ofour life, although they
QJ&y bein so faint a state as not to be the object
cifconsciouaneS&.
It is evident then, that a cause ol mental ex-
citement may so act upon a sequen~ ol such faint
feelings, as to render ideas of which the mind had
long been prmously UllCOnscious, vivid objects of
consciousness. Thus, it is recorded of a female in
France, that while she was subjected to such an
iqfluence, the memory of the Armorican language,
which she had lost since she was·a child, sud-
deply returned; ·
With the knowledge of the foregoing f'act beo.
fore us, we shall now imagine, that certain de&DBe
ideas are arising in the mind in so vivid a state,
dlat the order of succession in ·whieb they{6J'IIlei'.
ly occurred as sensible impressions may be- -
tinctly traced. If, then, such idea$ are 1\ueeeedecJ.
no less agreeably to the law of 8$80Ciati91l, by-ao-
other irain, which, ha'ring long faded into extl'ellle
faintness, are, in the present in!rtance, llo 'ibdrbidly
excited_
as to again become the subject,of co~e­
ness,~uch revived feelings will appea11:M,.i.riae
in a sort: of insulated manner, si,Dce'th#it ~
COil,Jlexjon· with reClognised sensatiQ1;1a: IAA1'r:IJ&lr•
been long since forgotten. Accordiogly., :tMa-.was
ttie:m.e ,when certain of Nicolai's ideas met Witi¥1i.i\
bMxpected reneWal of their lo~tg-IO!It Vividn~~
dley appeared to be totally uneonneeted with:tlit
regular train of his thought. " i must r
observe;"'
ays this author," that when I either think deepfy
on a subject, or write attentively, pattieultlrly 1thcm
I hllve ·et.erted my~~elf fbr ~ be) a thought
~uently ofFers itself; -which h1111 no ronnexion
\Vith the work before tne, and thia at ttme. in -a
tnannet:80 lively, that it seettts as if expreMed in
actUal words."
··We ha1"e next to consider; that the &ded·ideas
of Nieolai's mind, \then again beC(mring the su~
j~ of oonsciousness, had acquired such an l!'lt-
treme degree of vividness as to frequently induce
the illUsions of phantasms ; when, therefure,. all
k~l~ was lost of the original sensations that
~nded to such spectral imprei!sions, no WOIJ.o.
del' ~t this -writet should express hbnlelf after
th" following manner:-" None of the pliantauJU
cW my illness were of known plaoes, obj~s, or per.
801l$."' And, lastly, when the same ~ysieiatt
eooducted hia inquity on the ptihciple, that no
ideas· btlt ·those of·which we a.re eomcWu. were
sttbject:u. the lAw of associationJ no stDi1ll shate'af
dillappbiAtment could fail to ensue, \lrhen he·fotnnl
hiMielf wmble :to trace the origin of his pbaa-..
to' ~ iWfpt~ made in ~ usual 1D8Mer
uptm.tllh~·: . ' ·,
..he-now II.
.The I~ft.~e. 9f vivifi.!ing Cauau upon IdeM Qf
j .. wltAch we are comciou.t. - .... ~ ·--
'~Ill the-·last ·eeetioo I endeavoured to shew, tha~
!an exciting cause ~qay t·oounence its influence after
:the ideas which composed the concluding part of
:an uninterrupted train of renovated feelings hacJ
ceased to become the object of consciousness ; ancf.
that the effect of such an influence might be to re-
·-viw! the remembrance of long-f~tten i~,
and, as in Nicolai's case, to conjure up pha.n~s
whloh the perplexed metaphysician C!QU~ ~Qf,lf4.f11"
to the law of association. ,.,1. . ;
My nex.t object is to point out other _.~um­
mmees, under which a cause of meoW ex"~t
·may .vivify ideas. I have stated, that it IW9.eqpfl-
mence its action more prematurely, or.. ~.::a
taila of ideas has so much decreased in ,;y,i.y~
.as to cease being the object of consciouan~ .P..¥t
this.circumstance of mental excitement ~.~.10
mqventJy illusu-ated in the coui:&e of lh~ .:!li~
· ti:cjn~ tbatnit require& little comme~.· •:~R~·t
I iitu8t:>be, ,lb.tthe order in W~h.
.p~~\lr
~ ~be traced to the order of ~~ ~.)f~jch
.a...,~. A. .. • • . ... , : •• ; ,~.,.,.,x·· .
'tJJdki~almbit;:uml~)' ;tQ ;j}h.w~,tMa.ttivify-
-ni~tu\ltb~ llnr.~h.dar view which ie, aooex2Cl.
9
8
7
e
.s
:,: ,• ~ 'r<IMI' ,,:
Ideas[ ·'·.'~ ~~':·
Jdal : 10: ·.•~j I
, But Nicolai has conceived, that the circomlltail-
ces under which phantasms arise, are not referable
to the law by which past feelings are renovated.
Other philosophical seers, however, have been
more successful in tracing their phantasms to ideas
vivified in the natural order of their assoeiation ;
and, in this case, it is almost unnecessary to repeat
a remark I made, that such spectres could·have
.been nothing more than highly-excited ideas, which
bad not antecedently ceased to be objects of con.
aciousness. Indeed, Nicolai himself &Words us a
curious narrative of a gentleman, wh06e vim.re-
eollections of the"· conversation which .he might
have·beardin,the course of.the day, were DJOdNdly
nmvecl in the eveDing, but in states of; ~y
far exceeding those of the original impr~s.
Ct 'My mueho.Jamented friend, Mosea Mendel~n,"
he olieerves, " had, in the year 1'79!, by too in-
... ,. ' 'iditiiti&JitiJP!D'PARI'l'lfJI!ftt
tense an application to study, contracted a malady
1Hiiclt 8lao abowifW_.-ith ~~ psyaholagical
apparitioua. . .For·.up'Wal'ds ol two yean he was
incapacitated hom doing aay- thiag t, he-oould aei.
ther r* I\Or..thillk. and wae rfl\Clered utterly in.
~pable of supporting uy·loud noise~ If any 01UJ
talked to him ntbQI' in a lively manner, or if be
himself happened ~ ~ disposed to lively camrer-
. sation, he fell in the evening into a very alarming
species of Catalepsis, in which he saw and h_
eard
every thing that passed around him, without beiBg
lble ~ mqye .._ limb. If he bed .heN'd au.y.Ji~eJy
OOilvenation during the day~ aS~totian ·voice-a..
peated to him, while in the fit, the pa.rticu1u__.
~ 11yll$hles that ha,d been pronQUil~, with p·im-
PJ'essive aooent, or }oqd empbatie ton~, a.nd ip su.cb
a,,manner that hie ears ~ver~rawd." '
... :' ./ ~-.
. l :h.w at lea,th oonel~ed my ~~
1Jhat~ybe ~dered aJ the ·~~~
connec~ with the origin of spectre! imp~ottll.\
. The general inference to be drawn from the
-:--r.tbAt .Al'P4BJ'tiON8 A.BE NOTHING MOaB 'fBAN
JllQNU.».anur-''*'' WliWM •ax nuuC.Anv.s, .~ ....,
ftftoalf .XCH:BIIEN:T CW TBa &BMOY'.AT'Ba UIBirt
.....~:.... JlfltDi ·· 1'? . ,,~L :-:· 1.11~·
·..· ; .: ; . ·< ?. IlL :.>2 Cl~}
'Fhe .
tdetJ.IIIIkici are earited, '*¥I blrfMI~,tjj: tMitlt
. -.lite - - mtpl .~:· lfaw.l.lien aililn.....
.. .•_: >
._·:·)
- -As tbla iast conclusion baa Involved the notion tll8t·our tn~~
te'e:1blp have a tenaener, ·e«fMW Jlllfihl, upea eseh- Gcea8iOD ttl
. their repetition, eo becoaie fainter aad fainter, a queetido lliay
}JOIIibiJ be ubc1, I• wAat C0JU1m t"- pri~ of • IlNdt
wl&icA M •II parlfal tkgree fl coa~ tAft terttlefu:r ~ Dr
Brown baa cleady llbewn that tllere II, (to ue hJa own words)
" a prtDdple 1ly wllich it it impoalble lw u not to believe that
the course ot natare baa been uniform in aD tbe limple aequen~
tbat ba'fe eomposed or may hereafter compoee it, uc1 that the
..... Qllreeed•W, ...., -1111 at..,. ..... ,._... to4.1rill.
~~to lie loUowed bJ the ~e coJ1141C1UC11tl --~ •~«
,;.~ obaerve becomes· at once, by. the influence of this principl~
lepfeiii!Dtatives to us ot the past 1111d of the future, 88 well 88 of the
present." SuCh are the functions of theanticipating faculty of the
millcl,-that r-lty whereby we are eaab1ed to contemplate pNo
.... ud put feelillp in the relation-of the pnllllt aDd the.t\Uia,
~~t-hulle leladon ot the put and the tuaue. WlleDeftr, _.._
""'-;&kiJ~pating principle is thua exercile4, vadolla ~
of ~~ or pain are contemplated 88 future events; and,_in
propqrtion to the amount of the pleaaure or pain thus anticipated,
&nd tO the probability of the event anticipated taking place, a re-
IIOfttiOD orvlvldJiess Ia liven to ·teellilgs that weald ·ethetwilit
liMe ~ in dale to be the obJeet ot OOJIPdee·- b-'dlk
paiqt ot..-, .tbe aat,idpatias fac9lty ot tJae uUDcJ it tN ~
aedDg ~ple, which it ~culated to pMVellt ~l ~ ~ ~
inp f\-oql becomill3 on eiiCb OCCI!fioQ or their. rec;urreace more and
more faint.
c.t>E .O:I:IJif3.> ·.;r- ~-::, ,'' 1' · UiH!T<fZ~aue
fU4
S,.Bi?: ~;_! _ ·:; : ~ ·::_ ···; ...(:~ - :-• · -~, ~
hn£ L-;rt~- ;~, ~ -~ •· • ~i-·
CHAP. XXVI.
TU- ~~TION OF MORBIFIC AN:Q 1110~.
· C4lJ~ OF MENTAL EXCITE.UEN'l'. . - ~.
" The lunatic, the lever, and the poet, · ··::·~~­
Are otimagiDation all compact.''-8a.u:e£A.Ji:E:;; ·.·: ;'l
----------- ' ~ -.-:.r.
On inquiry into the effect produeed on ~-
-cbnsciousness by strong excitements of the_~­
is at length so far advanced, that a tit ~..:;
nity occurs for noticing the phenomena atte~
other occasions, besides those which are ~~::
011 which various degrees of vividness ate iatpartatl-;
to·our feelings. . .-.....-.
But, before proceeding farther in this in~
tion, I would observe, that all emotions _w~:
arise from such innate causes of theQl, SSt - hy.-tll~f,
durable influence on our selfish and ~~- ~,.;
tions or habits, have aequired the name--~ ~,
aTeilldicated by the same general eWects,w.-d_te~~:-:­
c~lation;thatresultfrom the action off~p~­
i~ into the system, such as_ -.e£~!~:
~'whieh:l · ;bav~ ... uw~oo.•.:. ~o~tr!'!M,ul~
surable ~xcitement, arising from sources of mental
;,.,,,Coogle L
SUSCEPTIBILITIES, &c. OF FEELING. 845
•·· '< .
vividness, is indicated by an increasing expanai-
bility ot the vital fluid, by a corresponding state
of the diastole of the heart, and by a fulnees and
force of the arterial pulse, affections of a painful
nature are manifested by an G:HJOsite tendency of
the blood to reduce its volume; when a hard
~' ds ·well as that constricted state Of>the' capil4
}aries is induced, which bears the nanie of the
CtiiV .Amerina. Such circumstances, then, are
essential to the general susceptibility of the human
frame. to be affected in a definite manner, agree-
ably to the selfish and social nature ofman.
I would next observe, that on laws connected
..rith·the ~ari0u8 combinations of matter that J1lOI'e ·
of- tess forcibly impress our sensitive orgaas, depend .
die-~ on which different susceptibilities of
r~ ··are called forth. Particular hard or ~ft·
~ for instance, luminous particles; sapid
bodiM;T&c. in impressing with greater or leas furocJ
any particular organ of sense, bear a refereoce to
t~>lJeflnite susceptibility of the sell8itive part to
~ suehimpressions ; and, accordingly~ definite
qi~S~kies- of pleuure or of pain are produced .in
diftEIH!M states of vividness.
~,. ~ susceptibility of· feeling, how..·
evW;~ hy eaeh part of the body, ...y
~)~r·U. ·degree; .and ·tb.is.ddf'eMJ)Oemay
~~i~.)the-utent ,of .~ im}*ted:.•by.
the·l~·bd' netves··CO· tbe ·JV'8.lioUa. ~·.ef.
P ·
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
-TB.B~-~ WBRII XIICniiSQIIIlOUS
IIMit'Jin&i~-,.·-·,.,.1.
....~- CIGI!IIi8o
.*"efltJ.e.~maeJ.n.;~·bJ!wlaichetke -...
~ NIUlthag:hm1-(aeryoQI..,........
(jl.._,~ N_, ...n; ..ach .vwto. ~
~ot:hting· may nen he· ~-·19•
8CMile.unknon peculiarity.or the im'f~N~terial ......,
hWf, by-"Whicb, in;iurelation·tn:tihe auuduJO..d
the human 'frame).it is rendered more u.b~Et t~:
pl!ll'ticut. state·than tn aot.hel'. F.I'Qift ae,y ·~
t~Mrft'ore, ol these '-~ aa~ Qf ftf!lllmal.
a~co;operatien -of two or more of tllaa, \h'e~e ~·
in the same puson, ·be an ·iu.ate .tabdeoeyto .-.:
~e a more-•iTid degree .of·,p~easue fto.)aa eound:
than-trom colwr; or •
a depof~ .P• let&.
disproportionate, ·JUy be im~ to :tho ·~;
tiims ronneeted with tlte gustatory wgeM. ·
:-
.a..,
with regard to feelings. of tbe aame kiDd, • ~1
of predileetions mily subeis~. One tint of~-~
shade may naturally give~ delight .thee-~
t~r, and the same obeervation ·D)aJ' apply;tD•fM"-
ticular odours, tones, &c. Laati)J, ·tbia -~
tiona} variety of susceptibilities evinoed ia.._..
vei'al organs of the body, ma1 as-in· di5e~ift.4if-
ferent individuals. <,. · ·' ·
:.\fh~ the nt!llt place, wtw. we.«»ntempMe ....._..
a·i!66ial' being, we sha1Hi8d, that his·iUete .....
i~ualsuseeptlbilities efpleamre·• 'tlflpaiiarlfe;.
li\mlt¥to JM!Ietiltlf-er modiftad.1 , ·•ua ~~fJ lh ·
OWt t&tNhdlb~y, dtterelore, bedireatedttotheOQ..·
i UP
0---~-,~~-~
~..1. . _:.-:_,._ ~.. • -'--:.1'~ .A41 ..L.....
-to:.t-"' ~' U~·-~·Hl~ HWJ
- · • • • ~~O....to.... - ...1-....rd.
-~eft·Cit·--t"----- ~ :... J'I!ILYII'!i'.....
llfOillliti.i-.e la~e~ ou ...-,<11_.,
~-uf IGCW in~,· TBrioQa~~
- - -·ahal:l-he .diapenaed t,o ;tbe -f~:~···
Jiaioj. .&tm aeillite occuiotl8 are ~ . ..
tile.-quilitionor privatioa, l.U,ofk.Jl4)wl~; ......
of>powao·; Sdlg,.of eoeiety; 4thly, of the meaucf!
e~riadog.gratitude; &lhly, of the meau oi reaeot.-
QJeDt.; · 6tl&ly, of the esteem of our fellow~
~ - A ~ef the aequisition ofuy of these ob-
jaUda ift ea,eh individual attend«~ with a mGre or
.... mid tiegree of pleasure; 8Dti a ·lelllle of-
the ·.pi•atioo of any of them ia attended with •
-.or leu vivid degree of pain. Nor -is it _.
~ to the enjoyment• of tocial i~oooune,
- tWre .ould mat a law, by which the coogra.
adatioasrOf.aympathillingfriends should add to the
W..idne•-.c,f the joys·we experiettce, or ~ tbeU
omaloleMe should allay the poignancy of the- molt
bitter aflliction
:Bat; with."gard to tJae particular COMtitutional
etl't!UBl~ of the human ayatem, which Ill~ be·
dilulacl -.-ry for the deTelopment of Lt.1N
upMl -
wlliilh tlle aooial cltaraeter of. nwm ~­
I,~W> - opinion. I ha¥e already~
that the auseeptibtlity poiM888d -by ·6\W ~
feetirtga ,of·'VBrious degrees of pleasure .and paia,
9
w ~~~~~~
!lfiJMJ9fr~"~n q~Wt· ~~~~.,.._
~~h,tfJ~~~,.but-~J:IltVpke
.\1\e~~QD ot manJ. ~f'far..beyo]Jd.~
~.«¥,.,AuJnan~quiry. lt.JP.ay depend~ in~
~~~.upoJJ.. ~n peauliaritiea of the ~rvous
-~J:H,. q>ptem~.as the. 80\m.e ·whence v~
:~~ .drgree& of mental vividness &Fe derind, or it
~y. depend upon the greater or less teDC!ellCy;of
seusitive organs to be affected by nervous ,inBu-
'enee; or, lastly, it may in~olve some characteriatic
.ofthe immaterial mind itself. ,. ;·.
Having explained the moral occasions •upen
which our feelings are excited, it may be added,
that their vivifying inBuence extends to all im-
pressions which may be connected with them in
any known relationship.-Yet a sensation, wheo
~wed, shows a tendency to become le&~J . :ri'rid,
and when followed by a revival of the fediags
with which it was before associated, such revi•ed
feelings evince a similar tendency on each ~
&jon of their recurrence to become fainter· !&lld
fainter.
_~ There are, however, other principles ofour D&-
.,t~, ·which are constantly more or leu ~ter.act­
.~.this tendency of sensationsand ~:to-~
.on .eaclt occasion of their recurre~ ~- ,...d.
f~~er_; ~allude to the inflpeqce of .such:~
tive affectipns. of the mind as Hope ~. F6tll:l".-
. ·~ . . . . ....~
• • • • • •
~ WIPIIo'8 ~'HIW. MD
~n~tliifiei@flii~1~. ,;•ftJi~ld9~
Wtf"ifhitti11taH'-hi~rliY;'Seen1.~lrl'11b'6Ji~iai
ltkalty~;""'To·~T·iifl ffiei'~tt1Hntte:lfti­
~ti# ~M'·'~dt appariflbn's;·•\.rffictf'd~
lmmediatt-ly tiMr upi:nitketr rilbrbid drigm;'"'oma
~equiitl; 'fbrthe put-poseja oomplete~stemarle trefi.
tise On the patbolo~ of the hUman mind,--a mark
;Of ttttention, which, to the bugbears of popular
&uperstition, I am not inclined tO pay. To any
pneumatologist, therefore, who has more inclina-
tion than myself to persist in an investigation of
ttrig'kind-who has the spirit to exclaim, witH one
·of Dryden's heroes,
._
, ;... " I'll face these babbliDf demoot of the air,
·.· In spite of ghosts 1'U on,"
I'<·'.
the ·. •CUI'flOry remarks which appear in the sub.
:aeqUent pages of this work are, with due deference,
~submitted.
' ,.-The anticipation of good or evil, which vivifies
our feelings, excites them in a degree propor-
tiOnal to the natural susceptibility of the mind to
reeeive more or less pleasure and pain on various
tiloral~asions, and proportional to the probabi-
'-llty bt'~~robability of an expected posses8i.on'Cn-
prilraltonl ''l'he afFections which are thus ioduced,
we e~:by the terms Hope and ·Fear · ..; '
These are the very few remarks which r· can
. ) ;
8taJ tQ aifer GD ~;CO~tJJ~'~JJtJ principle qf-the
~ .which prtWentll ide¥ flD. e.ch oceesiqn of
ukft. ~urtenoe from beooroing more and ·~
faUrt. · But'tht: po1fer of tbitl an\\Qpat.ibg fAloufty
to'!evive: our f.,elings mWJt bQ 4)0JW<kl.'fd -. •
mited in its· ~"'tiona, siqce th~t gteellest pro-
portion of OW' Jnenbil. ~ is allowed to ltQ d,e..·
CieBIQ itt vividDei.S, as ta ewewPg the o~ of•
omuaiousness.
It may now be asked, What efFtm ought tQ re"- '
suit, when there is a ~pention of morbific and
:moral eauses of vividness inftuenciog in a llttoDg.
degree the feelings ofthe mind ? This queetit'm'h.a
been partly answered by Pinel. He has stated, that ~
out of one hundred and thirteen lunatic patien~
the exciting causes of thirty-four of them might ·
be traced to domestic misfortuDetJ. Twenty-four
h8d met with matrimonial ohatacles, thirty 'had
suffered from political events occasioned by the re-
volution, and twenty-five were disturbed by religi-
ous fanaticism. We are, likewise, entitled to expect
that spectral impressione, eit~ with or withQ\lt
actual insanity, will very often be the ·result of.
this oombination of causes operating 01,1 the miud,
aad that moy of the apparitions·thWJ ex.~ ·
will aflbrd palpable evidence Qf the ebare·1fbidi•
Hope &Dd Fear had in the ilb'Uiion. Of tM.·r.t.ii
few examplet lllll)' he.~ftn, •
\
o; '"' .,Google
i) · , ..... , ' llJuatrations,'fc.; .>;1··;,,,,,JV..BJ'
\~ . · . · ··• .~ .· .~ ·'J-in
.·~ ~ W place, th~ .fQn» Q{ th~ .tf:~'l'H ~l .
~til tie. will be o(t~ iu~ by tl\eipub~.
Q{,~ ~~-. " Wl\ep I ~deiJtally fe~ J~<t
thE; MA,"' ~y-._a writer Oll the. ph31lb~Mnll~ tQ wb~­
h~ _
,vas11\\\>jeqt frQJD di~ " aPd after. swimmi.,
a~ tinlQ without. assis~~e, ~ tQ d~
of my ~tue.tion, the im3ge of my dwel.li.Qg, and the
~u~ objec;ts, appeared wit.b a d~ee of
v\~~esa little ditferiJl& from that of actual vi~on.
M~ ~tuart~ M.P. wheu fJf~tly in ~r- soma
y~, "fP, by being wrecked in a lmt on thE!
EddystQne :rocks, relates, iu 8oll .~unt which
appeared in the papers, that his family appefred..
to him in thi11 e~tremity. ' He thoqght he l!aW
tJw~.' ....
..{\.!vision of tht: same general character (thoU8P
SQ~ little doubt IIULY be eJtpressed whether it WM
not a w-~) occurred to Ben JonSQn. But it. it
pt~ that, in this case, the poet's meutal excite-
~- W res.ulted from a plethoric sta.t.e of the
~~·~e~. the conseq~nce of too generous ~ diet,,
w~i,G_h )l4d. co-operat.ed with. p~ntal a.o.Pety fo~ .
t~.• ~\Y of a son, whQm he had left ex~ to .,__
CQP.WJ _
fever raging at the time i.. Loud(_>n.
DJUIJJJP,qgd,w~ told by J<>llSOP• " th11t w4~ t4e:
• ~leholaoll't Jo~ ~ n. P· ,296.
DR DONNE'S ILLUSION.
Ki~ ~e tQ ~~g1an4, about the time that the
pi'' 1~ ~aii iii'~ndon·~..tie;'~ng:intlie~'lJ1i$t .
sir:ttbsrkft 'Cotri>h'shhouile'· with ·bld'C~·
s&~· iW~.-~ision hts ·eldest·&Oil,·i'hen af<ning:~.
ar\it1
at London, appeat unto bUii wiih the maJ.1C:6f'
bl~ upon his forehead, M if it· had been\Witih(
s~~rd:' at whi~h, amazed, he prayed unto aoa;'
arid..in.'th~ morning he· came unto Mr C~bden•s
chiunber to tell him, who persuaded him .it. war
b~t an apprehension, at which he should not &''
dejeeted. In the mean time, there came lette~ .
from his wife of the death of that boy in thepliigue;
He. appeared to him, he said, of a manly shape;'
and of that growth, he thinks, he shall be at the ·
resurrection." ··
Many other narratives, exhibiting indications
of a similar excitement of feelings, may·: be
found in various biographies, where they ·have
only found a place, because a fortuitOus' coinci-
dence with the subject of the phantasm and sub-
sequent events, has served to countenance the
popular views entertained regarding the sacred
mission of apparitions. Of such a character was the
~ell-known illusion of Dr Donne. · Thiw ..emi-
nent poet married, against her father's .oo~nt,
Anne, daughter of Sir George Moore; $~~~Ptia
lady he felt an attachment, which the ·r~~,.9(. no
poet have eTer .
·teCOI'ded in more f~b~·
And, that his ·deeJarations ·were no lea; •abltere,
.¥.C'; ·.J..:.~ :-;·;:f.-;:~· G Hl
Dlt DONNE'S ILLUSION.
. _j t t rt• "''. ' .. .. ' '. . .. < • • • •. ~ .. ·-u
.li.l .· .J. . . · . . . . . : ·. · .. '.; JfEi:;:) JlOfn
~~erqus ao~qte~, ~id~ of ~.,r ~...~1 r.· .~Yq
fu)lj .WJ."l'Ob:o~ted. . The persecqtiqn .~~~& 1~
sldfered from his father-in-law on .account ~ottli_
e
~' .preyed uP,n ~ constit~tion ~8t~~f
delicate, and excited to an intenSe .degrOO' a.fe~;~
pnment evidently mel,aricholic ; so t_hat"' it-·~~ '
far from remarkable, that during such a state of'
mental excitement, spectral impressions should have.
resulted.. Nor can it create much surprise, that
the subject of his mental illusion should be a wife,
~~om, in an elegy which he composed upon part-
ing from her, before he accompanied Sir Robert
Drury to Paris, he has thus afFectionately romme-'
morated: . ,
·.Oh, Fo=sne I • • •
· Rend ua iD auuder, thou c:auat not divide
Oar bodiee eo, but that our eoule are ty'd,
. ADd we cau Jon by letten still aud gifta,
•
Apd thoughtS, aud dreama : LoYe lleYer wailteth ahit\s.
• • • • • •
· ADd, dearest friend, lluce we muat put, cbon Digbt
·.with hope of day ; burdeua well borne are light.
• • • • •
• Be ever then yourself, and let no woe
,~--. WiD_~~~ your health, your 7outh, your beauty eo ;.
·.
: .Dec;1are yourself baae Fortune's euem7 ;
'···N,Oi ~be your·contempt than her iuconatanq ; ·: .,.i:
'··~ Tii'atf~t grow euamour'd ot your mUid, • .; \.; I>
<.il'Wlezr·iirow'n thOtaghta I here~ lucl.: .....: t5c{:
·' .-•·Alii~ _. ....~of my a..r, I vow,. , 1
·.:: •.· · t
M7 dmls shall etill be what m7 deeds are now;
8'1: DR OONQ'S lLLU810Hi
l!Ui!'-'1 ·_•; ·.: .. .- , , .. ·-
The polea shall move to teach me ere I start, '
uJ " < L .
..~ilc! wtien I change my loie 1'11 change my heart."
fiJ~-· & I
.Jtis,evideat, from the foregoing~ under what
......_of.llliod llr Donne yi~lded to Sir &oberc
~·a .iaportwlit.y to ,a<XlQm~y him to.Paria,
and quitted the obd• Qf hi& CQJlllulrialattlu;hmem...
The fear that ov.y WQe Jhould " will ~poll her
health, her youth, ~d ~ty~"' ..iust have....Utell
. from the c~, that he had led\ bel whea!
she WW~ not fer from herexpected «Udiaemen~
an ill habit of body, and SQ unwilling to part with.
bUD, that, ea i\ ia added, " ber dirin~ ..a:
boded some ill in his absence.'" "';
Two days after Dr Donne had arrived in Paria,.: ;
he was left alone in a room2 where he had beencJia..
ing with Sir &bert. Drur:y, and a few compo•na.
Sir Robert returned Abou~ an hour .aftenanJs.
He found his friend in a atate of ecse.y, ao6r
eo altered in his countenance that he could DOt •
look upon him 1rithout amazement. The· dod:m- ·
was not able for some time to answer the qu~ 1
tMGe Aad bifo1lm him1-but, after a long and per•
plexed pause, at ltl.st sa\d, " I have seeR a dr.dful ·
vision since I saw you ;-1 Mve seen my dear ~ .
pass twice by me through.this room,.witb.h• hair
hanging about heP sheu1den, and a deed_
aRid iD ·
her arms; This I tiave'seen Since I 'saw yo.t• To
which Sir Robert answered,-" Sure, sir, you
~~I;J;.\l.IIONi . 8U;
have slept einee I went wt• &Pd this .is the fe!lilt
of 110111e melancholy dre3Jn; wQ,h l qes~e iop·to
forget, for you are 1'0W Q4'k@," D~nn~"
replled,
-~ 1 eauot be- mo"':wre that I 1¥Kl',life,;tba
tllal I iaVEt uot tlopt ~ ·I •"""you ; ··
amL..._.l
sUl'e that at her ~ appeJII'illg ebe ·*>~!
loaked.uein the,face, and l'&Dished."
t.'J:he pC~ctt'a ~pber (IMU Walton) then .adds;
tJu.t;a eePaDt ,. d~tchecho Drury-Houae, 4:o ·
kaair.,i£Mrs Donne was living, aad, ifalive,in whet •
ccmditicm: .
who brought baalt word, that he fouud
add·W\ tbie lady very aad and lick in bed; and
~ aitel' a Joag and dangerous labour,..be had
hem delivered of a dead ohild. It ia allo ~
\hU:the.ah>rtion.took pJue Oil the Same day, and
~boat tile same hour, that tbe apecUal iuipl'Clllion
OCCIU'l'efl. . '
•
Otlte;~U~bjeeta of spectral illuaiama ue .ttioae
wlrieh luwe been ·excited by ·at.roag friendehip. 11-
luatrationa of this fact are f~ to melt readen
Of the.marvelloua. The eelebrated appuitioo·qf
FicimH :was .aeen by Miehael Mereato tile eld81';-
in·~n.qumce of ·an agreemeat made between
these:two friends, that the first w.ho died aluiQld
aequaint>the othel' with his final eonditioa.. ·
The
aurviVDD:was studying in his closet. He heard the
t~~>G€:.0 hone's feet, which suddenly ceased
at the dooJ; of his house. The well-known voic:e
of Ficinus then voc:iferated in bia ears, " 0,
~ ~~!!~'niB-iS~~~·
¥;~! -~·1-1 those thi•.are~.!" ~~~
-~ Qp9l,~~ly -turned to the .window, au,d.~M
j~ Jhne .to behold his friend, ~- in w~
4P~ -~ping off on a pale hor.se, when he .,;M
~n n~ more. At that very moment (says Bar;
tijus),Fici_nus died·at Florence. · , .
Regarding this story, of which I have given a
brief abstract, Dr Ferriar, in his Theory o( Appa;-
ritions, oft'ers the following remarks :-" Maoj
attempts have been made to discredit it, but.i
think the evidence has never been shaken. I eD-
terWn no doubt that Mercato had seen what he
described; in following the reveries of Plato,. t;b4l
idea of his friend, and of their compact, had ~
revived, and had produced a spectral impressioD,
during the solitude and awful silence of the earq
hours of study." •
In co-operation with morbific causes, REsBNT:-
KENT, when highly excited, has contributedto pro.
duce spectral impressions. This fact is.strikin&-
ly illustrated in the life of the most undaunted of
champions that was ever opposed to the enemieS .if
the Protestant cause. " Martin Luth~·s lite,~'
says Atterbury, " was a continual warfare ;.lie
.was engaged against the united forces of the .papal·
• ' l
•, A noah• apparition ot the lallle kind, ieDt. UkeWiae-. the
wlll'idupOil a similar errand, ia &hat ol Dee Fo~ .. ~
117 the Abb6 de St Pierre. . ,
' • . l . - _. _) !.. . i ' '! .. -~
'
)I~'L\1-Tiimt.S"WLtJS~N& 1M
walfa; ~-·be' stood the shock of tit~! fMal~,.
OOib with courage and success." ID. ~f ~
.tlibing, ·however, to pay this great tilait ttie-'Jiijl
~ he ·sa richly deserves from posterity, 'fc)rltfi~
su~ssful display of most of those eminent viitue!i,
which were essential to the sacred cause that ~
cupied his mind, it cannot be concealed, that he
~ an irritable temper of resentment, too
little softened by the mild tenets of Christianity.
This impetuousness, therefore, which often incor-
f9nited itself with purer motives of zeal, was un-
fhckily fed by the unmerited cruelties he met with
'&om the Romish church. Thus, in Captain Bell's
~fanslation of Luther's Table-talk, there is the fol;.
f9~g self-confession of this great reformer :-
'it'When I (said Luther) write against the Pope, I
am not melancholie ; for then I labour with the
Hrai'ns a~d understanding, then I write with joie
otlicim ; insomuch, that, not long since, Doctor
ti.\iie,n~usch said unto mee, I much marvel that
~oittia.D be so merrie; if the case were mine, it
~~Jill.d go near to kill me ; whereupon I answered
Hi)n; aritf said, Neither the Pope, nor all his shaven
~tJ • '"'" .
~tihue,_ .can make me sad; for I know that 'they
~n;:'tilHks enemies ; therefore I fight against him
'Wtdijoyfutoourage."
>
-b Blit>a~'s i'eeentment was not' wh.olly,~.<~m­
'&'htrated"~st the assumed suece8sor of"St·Pet'er
For, in the true spirit of the refon:illng age, he had
8a8 liAJlTIN LUTHElt~ ILLUSIONS.
ocnllklered 'the Pope d8 invoking the w:of 1
-the
cUviJ-te· dissipate the dawning light of rellgiou.
uuth.· Altdt when a temporary plethoric St&te ·~
the system, occasioned ·by the sudden c}wjge froiil
a spare to a generous diet, .bad given to this viVid
. image of his fancy an apparent form and sub.
stance, his resentment against Satan resembled
that which be bad blll'boured against the ponti-
fieal coadjutor of the fiend ;-it was not tnerely
spiritual, but even personal. " As I departed
from Worms,., said Luther, "and not far froin
Eisenach, was taken prisoner ; I was lodged in
the castleof W artzburg, my Patmos, in a chamber
far from people, where none could have accesa
unto me, but only two boyes that twice the day'e
brought me meat and drink; now, among other
things, they brought me hazel-nuts, which I put
into a box, and sometimes I used to crack and eat
of them. In the night times, my gentleman, the
devil, came and got the nuts out of the box, and
cracked them against one of the bed-posts, making
a very grellt noise, and a rumbling about my bed1
but I reglll'ded him nothing at all. When alter-
wards I began to slumber, then be kept such a
racket and rumbling upon the chamber stiira, as
if many emptie hogsheads and barrels ·wact:~
tumbled down; and although I kueW·:tfW*t.-tlie
stairs were strongly guarded with i.rQ!a.-....;1o
that~ pusage.waa·either -.por ~~.~...,_
MARTlN LU~JlER'S t:Lf.tJSlPN~' $9
~ went towards the sta.ira to Re 'Wb11t·the matter
was, but fihding the door f'w: shut, I sald,-' Art
~ou there P so be there still ;~-I conuriitted ~y..
tel! to Christ, my Lord and ~a'Vit~ur, of whom it
is 'Wl'itten, 01nnia lfL.hjeciati ptdibtu rJus!'
There is likewise another narrative told of this
reformer to the same eft'ect. " At sueb time,"
said Luther, "when I could not be rid of the
devil without uttering sentences out of' the Holle
Scripture,. then I made him ftie -with jeering·and
ridiculous words and terms : I have recorded fRY
sins in thy register. I said likewise unto him,
' Devil, if Christ's blood, which was shed for my
tins, be not suffi~ht, tl_ten I desire thee that thou
Wouldst pray to God for me.' When he findeth
rtle idle," said Luther, "and that I have nothing
in.hand, then he is very busy,-and before I am
aware, he wringeth from me a bitter sweat; but
w}len I oWer him the pointed spear, that is, God's
~ord, then he ffieth,-yet before he goeth he
maketh me bloody armed, or else giveth me a
pvoua hurrica.De. When at the first I begaa
to write against the Pope, and that the Goapel
lt'ent .on, then the devil laid himself strobgly
the~~ he ceased not to rumble and rage about,
~QF- . h~ , 1~,gly would have preserved purgatory
~h ~e~g, ~d diacur8Um animarum.~• ..
'"•·Uiii'l ~'eubjeet of Luther'a visions .Mr Colertcfge'liltb.
~~comments-" Hid LudlerlMII1111iUlU'a
ILLVS~ON Of ASHIIOLB, .tc.
Onoccuioaa of ambition, also, whichgive rise to
. T ' • .
adesire for the at.quisition of power, TariO'UII de-
.greesOf 'ri-ritbie. ate imparted to the feelings of
tbe mind.-AnOther cau&e of mental vividneaa is
·eonnected with the love of knowledge. Ashmole
wasconstantlyvisited by a phantasm thatiiOlved his
most intricate problems, the answers to which are
said to still exist in oneof his manuscript·volumes,
.under the title of Reaporuntm Rapheolia.
In the lan place, an anxi~y for tl1e esteem·, or
a fear for the reprobation of mankind, is a natural
vivid affection which always infiuences our actions,
and which often gives a corresponding character to
the subject of spectral impressions. Thus, among
visionaries who boast of divine missions, we trace,
in the subject of their illusions, a lurking ambition
to maintain, by this means, a conspicuous rank
prince, he could not have desired better tTeatment than he received
during hla eight months' stay in the Wartzburg; and in Clii!Uie-
quence ot a more luxurious diet than he had been accustomed to,
be was plagued with temptations both from the ' 8eah and tbe
devil.' It ill evident from his letters, that he 1u1Fered UDder gnu
irritability of his nervous system, the common efFect of deranged
digestion in men of sedentary habits, who are, at the same time,
intense thinkers ; and this irritability adding to, and vivifying the
impressions made upon him in early life, and fostered by the tbeo-
logicalsyetems of his manhood, Ia abundantly eullcient tD uplaiD
. all his apparitions, and all his mighty combats with e'ril apiri1a..,_
Fr'ie1ttl, by S. T. C~, EIIJ. vol. ii. p. 236.
,,,, e' ,,Google
I
REV. J. MASON'S ILLUSION,;. SGl
among their fellow-mortals. " The Rev. John
·Mason, a clergyman ofWater-stratford, near Buck-
ingham," remarks Dr Crichton," was ol?served to
speak rationally on every subject that had no rela-
tiQn to his wild notions of religion. He died in
1095, eoon after he fancied he had seen our Saviour,
fully -convinced of the reality of the vision, and of
his own divine .mission. He was perfectly per-
suaded in his own mind that he was Elias, and
that he was destined to announce the coming of
Jesus, who was to begin the millennium atWater-
stratford."
•
861
CHAP. XXVII.
CURSORY REMARKS 0~ SUCH OTHER LAWS OF
THE MIND AS ARE CALCULATED TO EXPLAIN
THK SUBORDINATE INCIDENTS CONNECTED
WITH SPECTRAL IMPRESSIONS.
Hark, amid the wond'ring grove,
Other barpings answer clear,
Other voices meet our ear,
Pinions flutter, shadows move,
Busy murmurs hum around,
Rustling vestments bl'llllh the ground ;
Round, and round, and round they go,
Through the twilight, through the shade,
Mount the oak's majestic head,
And gild the tufted miatletoe.
MAIOlf11 CASACTAcVS.
AN apparition is, in a strict sense, a past feeling,
renovated with a degree of vividness, equalling, or
~ceeding~ an actual impression. If the renewed
feeling should be one of vision, a form may arise
perfectly complete; if of sound, a distinct conver-
sation may be heard ; or, if of touch, the impres-
sion may be no less complete. The question then
is, What illusions occur when there are no morbific
causes of excitement operating?
ILLUSIONS EASILY COJUUWTBD. 863
In this caae, no other mental impressions of a
spectral nature ere experienced, than such as may
be corrected by a &light examination of the natural
objects to which they owe their origin. Illwiions
of sound are such as have been described alter the
following manner by Mr Coleridge~-" Wheta we
are broad awake," says this writer, "if we are in
anxious expectation, how often will not the .most
confused sounds of nature be beard by us as arti-
culate sounds P For instance, the babbliug of a
brook will appear for a moment the voice of a
frie11d for whom we are waiting, calling out our
own .names."• Illusions of visiOI'l are of the same
nature as those·which the late Robert Bloomfield
made the subject of description, in his beautiful
poem «the Farmer's Boy. The leading features of
some images of the mind, which, if present, would,
from moral causes, create emotion) are traced in
such outli,nes of light and shade, as in part com-
pose the figures that are actually impressing the
visual organs : ·
Wbilat thus the loit'rer'a utmoat stretch o( soul
Climbs the still clouds, or passes thoae that roll,
And l001'd Imagiflatiora soaring goes
High o'er his home, and all his little woes,
Time glides •-Y; neglected Duty calla :
At once from plains o( Jisht to earth he lalls,
And down a nanow lane, well known by day,
With all his speed,p\mues liis sounding WP.1,
• Friend, by S. T. Coleridge, Eaq. voi. 1aa, page 246.
In thought atD1 halfabeorb'd ..acbUI'I witil eoif;l·
When, lo ! an object frightful to behold,
A grisly Sl'ECTilE, cloth'd in aiher grey,
Around whose feet the waving shadows play, ·
Stands in !lis path ! ••. He stops, and not a breath
Heaves from hia heart, that sinb almoet tO-death.
Loud the owl ballooe o'er his head unseen ; ·,
All elae ia silent, diamally serene :
Some prompt ~aculation, whisper'd low,
Y.et bean him up against the threat'ning foe ;
And thus poor Giles, though half inclin'd to lly,
1\luttera his doubts, and strsins his steadfast eye.
• 'Tis not my crimes thou com'st here to reprove;
' No munlen stain my soul, no perjured love;
' If tlwu'rt indeed what here thou aeem.'st to be,
' Thy dreadful mission cannot come to me.
' By parents taught still to mistrust m41e eyes,
' Still to approach each object of surprise,
' Lest Fancy's formful visions should deceive,
' In moonlight paths, or glooms of falling eve,
-' This then's the moment when my heart should try
' To ICall thy motionless deformity ;
' But, oh, the fearful task ! yet well I know
' An aged ash, with many a spreading bouah,
' (Beueath whose leaves I've found a summer's bow'r,
' Beneath whose trunk I've weather'd many a show•r;)
' Stands ~ingly down this solitary way,
' But far beyond where now my footsteps stray ;
' 'Ttll true, thus far I've come with heedleaa haste '
· • No.zeck'ning kept, no paasing objects trae'd:
. '·Arul can I then han reach'd that very tree ?
..., 'Or is its reverend form IISIIUID'd by thee ?' . ..I . '
The happy thought alleviates his pain :
He creeps another step, then stops again ;
o,, '"' ,,Google
LAW OP ORDINARY DOTIONS. S85
'l'ill.wlJ, .. - ......teet-·-·
Ita perfect line-menta at CIDce appeg,
Ita croWD of ahiv'riDg i'Y whiaperiug peace,
And ita white bark that fronta the moon's pale face.
Now, whilat hie blood mounta upward, now be knows
The solid pin that &om conviction iloWll.
A.nd allellgdaen'cl conidenee ahall hence fulfil
(Widl ODIIICiou ilmocence more ftbted •till)
The drearieat talk that winter night can briDg,
By chardl-fl'ld dark, orr pun, or fairy riDg;
Still buorin3 up the timid mind of youth,
Tillloit'ring reason hoiata the scale of truth.''
• • • • • • •
Another cursory remark which I have to make
is, that in any train of sensations and ideas, the
more any particular feelings are vivified by an oc-
casion calculated to inspire hope or fear, the less
vivid are all other feelings rendered which occur in
the same train of feelings. But, it is impossible for
me to enter into a full explanation or this import-
ant law which modifies all our natural emgtions. I
shall, therefore, remark, that it is allude..t to after
the following manner byDr Brown ; though I ought
to premise, that·he uses the wordper~ where
otherswould use the term 8enHfion, and ~ ·
where an idea or renovated feeling is evidently
meant. His o~ations are to this eft'ect :-I' Tbe
phantasm• of iniagination in the reveries of our
waking h0llr8, when our external senses are lltill
open, and quick to £eel, are, as mere conceptions,
s'fJll} ~At' 'b)I.'#JBOJN..tlt.Y tell(mON&.
fa(l~d~5thft -
the ·pftoary pereeptioaa from
-Mi\cff!~y-driginaltylflowed : and yet, under the
iflflo~•·firay strong emotion, they beec.e se
Did~hliiiidfte bright ·and prominent tlian extemal
ttflfi~,'t~at to th.e impassioned muser on distant
~n~ atid perSOD~ the scenes and peraoDil' truly
~!ld 1lim are almost as if the,- were ·uot ·nist..
~"'-
,..:Bat I know of no better·iDuatration ttu.t cabe
gi~~:or this law of our nature, ,than ·in a ~
tion from the <Edipus of Lee and Drydeo,:
" WheD the ll1lll letl, abadowa that ahow'd tt ~,
But 1111&11, appea~ moat long and terrible ; ' ·
' '· ' So when we think fate hovers o'er our beads, · '. -'.'!' ·
I..' ' Our app-tehenlliolll ahoot beyond all boUncla ~ · ., ' ·I,. ~••~~
' ·:_.: · .Owt., ravene, erickete, HelD the watch 1J('Ile.cll ; •. 1hi:;.~;
'; ~·a -11'011'1t YemWl ICIU'e her~ •••. ·loc·q ,< 1'
cJichael tbe "'1 J-.riDp oh voi~ .·. d .,,_ ;,11
Grow bllbblinjJ gboeta, IPld call, u~ to our gra•~-- , _. ... ·
Etch mol~ thought swell• to a huge Ol!D!plll;
Whi1ti we ~tum: cbamen hea-ve and p~
Allll•,_ with an imaplation'a weight."
This, then, is the efFect of fea.-to reduee the
vividaesa of·all feelings, that are not connected
with tbe,_~()Jl which gave birth tO the emotioD.
And thu~ it _
is, .that in each train of thought,
while'.:every''idea .connected with a particuJar
~~ of ·hope or fear, becolne.. subject to
" _
&trong '!Sci-ent. _-n other feefuags which ~lear
D l' ej ,,Google
-
. L.\W Of' ;~Y ~ION._ .•
110 reea-oe to the-~~ proportion.
ally faint. By tbi8 me~P~~, ~ . illuaion mWJt be
increa.ed. How well is this W¢,illuatrated mthe
eJJlOtiOOa w.bich are excited, when, through the
medimn of the ~ an idea is intensely reno-
vatecl upoa the·fld4!d outlines.q{ .uch forms as
have J,een.indueect by ~ ~ gW&ma of light
which diversify woods, rocks, or clouds ! In pro-
pOrtion .as ht;pe, or &Uperatitious awe, impart. an
uadUA degree of vividness to. the apectnl oudiue
which may .tbua be traced~ all other pam.of.the
natural objects which have given rise to the phan-
taatn grow proportionally dim. The speCtre then
'-tuires an undue prominence in the iinagiDation,
and appears to start from the familiar obj~ta of
which it JRerely forms a portion. ThiS law can-
not perhaps:be bet.ter exemplified tbaa by the aw.
ful address of Fauat, wbicll he oi'era up to the
Spirit of·Power:
" Then, led by thee to 10me wild e&Te nmote,
My tute I ply-the atudy o£ myMlf.
Or, eboa1d the lilnr moon look kiDdly do~
, -'~l'tanilloa'cl r.m. ofapa JG8jJ pae ~ .... .~ . .:· :Vi'
.~:l~ ~~·~ -ftom~ .~,ordeWJ~, ,, •.·tft ·:·~l~u~·.,
H~w kinder light the blaze ot thou h .· · '· ·· ··"-" • 1'
.,'. AU~ ~=e the maddening mind to 10tt! J~t;.;·~'.d:it •h;,
1 .'< I ;•,: ,.' ./ .:_
J t-·f~•
• See lAid Lmetm Gower'• elepDi·nnlhdoD ot Ooedae'•
F.-, ,.Pln._
, . -~~NOF
_,,,~-~·1"; .
...
uadW,-vi•ifiw:Abfa.---
.f~ ~ ~r figtQ"tS · that ltalie hem.·•
..~ oil peet f.wiDga, and ·wlaich ..reotlen all
4#1~ .-na· of 'the senawe forms .imp~ ·dae
~ .~portiObally faint. and omcme. But a
_.... less .•blime illuatratiQn. of tbia .priacip)e
is afforded.in a ·well-told· anecdote lly:·In l'er-
Qu-:
" A geutlemao.was .benighted, while'.VImtl1iag
alou(l, ia a remote pari of the highlanc;h.of· Saot..
laud, and was compelled to ask shelter ·for &he
· e~ at a small lonely hut. When. be was to
be conducted to hie bed-room, the landledy:oh.
served, with mysterious reluctance, that.he WCNW
find the window very secure. On uami~
put of the wall appeared to have been brQkea
down. to enluge the opeoing. A£ter some · ~
•he waa told that a pedltu.-, who had lodgecl ia die
room a short time before, had committed suioidr.
·and was found hanging behind the door in the
morning. According to the superstition of the
country, it. was deemed improper to remove the
body through the door of the houae ; Mld to con-
vey it through the window was impossible, without
removing part of the wall. Some hints were drop-
ped, that the room had been subsequently haunted
by the poor man's spirit.
" My frieod Jaid hie arms, properly prepared
against intrusion of any kind, by the bed-side, and
..\ . ... :'ftra!Dillllllft-~110 -
Ntnecncnst,: 1ftJl- without·S.ote-d..4Jeiol~re-
1Wnsion.1 1ft -fras 'fllri.tedi in~a beam;''Y'l ~t.
ful apparitioli, and awaking in agooy,: Am~tlltdtiJ.
amsitting up in bed, With a pistol 'gra8pe4. ifiritls
rightihand.. -On Galtiag a (earful gl•nce i'Otmtt
theI'OOm, fte-di~, by·the moontight,'a~.
~,m, 11 shroud, reared erect·agaiOBt the-*all-,
cloee by the window. With much difficultj'4le
·~nimoned up resolution to approach the dismal
4bject, the features of which, and the minuteSt
parts of its·funeral apparel, he perceived distinct-
·I;: He passed one hand over it; felt nothing;
ahd staggered back to the bed. After a long in-
~al, and much reasoning with himself, he re-
n'e-wed his investigation, and at length discovered
that the object of his terror was produced by the
mtliOn-beams, forming a long bright image through
the broken window, on which his fancy, impressed
bj' .his dream, had pictured, with mischievous ~
ctitacy, the lineaments of a body prepared for in.;
tertnent. Powerful associations of terror, in this
installce, had excited the recollected images with'
uncommon force and efFect."*
My ~ JaM illustrations will explain the efFect ·bf
that 'passion -which forms the chief theme of•poet~. ­
In this iastance, every idea of the object of ~i
lover's hopes is unduly vivified, while every Other
object!'~ to fade from the reoollection t · : ''
. ._ . ,• . ;.;;<.. t\,<;
• Ferriar on Appariiions, page 24.
.._.._...,..---
xliu'tdu.:) ,::.c ·.'. : :·'CNft\l..._....,.
I ~lint.-W.~a: tie ...,..._.tt...... J:'o)1 , '"''i<(l
d:>iriw:l't.'Jff\lthls F~.ttilel.s.:IIOClJJfll ~ M; •.ii <~ lldl
un[J~~ ~~ bend~ iuw ~ cluaq ~ .. ..'. L '" ~diin
A " All natllft fadea, extinct;. ana abe al9ne . ·~·"· ,;l ~''
Heard, felt, and aeen, poueseea every thousht,
n<x ~:·l'm. "'erJ teilae, and'panta in e.ferr ._._, • · ~ : ·-'Z.
.lr1JUt how beautifully does Dryden iilust.r&te ·~
slune law, in a strain of most aft'ecting ana ~
' -~
verse:
"·I 1111 not what I wu llin!:e yeatercfay t
)(y food fonabs me, and my n-vul felt:·
I pine, I Janguiah, Jove to be alone, .. ·;:..
...
! ·~
~ much, apeak little,. and, in ~' liP:.
Wile I-. Twriamond,. I 11111 unquiet; ·
And when I ll!ll him not I 11111 in pain.
They brought a paper to me to be •isn'd;
TlliDkillg on him, I quite forgot my Dllllle_..
&ld writ, for .Leorwr-G, Torriamond.
I Wellt to bed, and to myaelf I thought
'£hat I would. thlnk on T01'1iamond no men ;
T.hen abut my eyes, but coul4 not abut Clllt !IMP..
I tum'd-, and Vied I!!ICh comer of my bed,
To find if sleep wu there;. but sleep wu lost:
Fn-'rilh for want ohest, I rose and walk'd,
'And by the moon-shine to the windowa went;
'l'her.!, thlnlting to.adude him hom my tho~.;
I ~t my eyee upon the nllighlt'l'illjJ tilda, l : · ·:''' ·'
And, ere I wu awae. ~'d to m)'ldt,
There foupt my Torriamond." t
" ·" ..·. · •· •t~e'a..PieuiiNI of Imagillatioa.
t Dr,den'a Spaniab Fryer.
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
l·_;!l
......:j
•0 :.;
..
'.
,
r ·- ).}
Nl~_~r.(W·~N. . .
With .._, iji,ua~ns befoie us, (faithfully
copied from ~ u.mQet,01·D11.:;11e8iden will, I
think, admit,) it is-easy tafofelee the· ~ 'which
mustarise, when the vividness of·a strong~ecticm
iaincreasef;l.by morbific causes of excitemet:l4 "A
young mu~" .says Pinel, "who had lost,hi~ reason
~#le pmgs of di~ppointed love, w~ ~u~
~i so powedul an illusion, t~ he miatook every
female visitor for his dear Mary Adelina, the o~
ject of his unfortunate attachment." •
From these remarks it is evident, that in all
spectral impressions, the illusion is either inereaaed
or diminished in proportion to the force of the
emotions it excites. "I was always able," saye
Nicolai, "to distinguish, with the greatest pre-
cision, phantasms from phenomena. Indeed, ·.I
never once erred in this, as I was in general per-
fectly calm and self-collected on the occasion. I
knew extremely well when it onJy appeared to me
that the door was opened~ and a phantom entered,
, and when the door really was opened and any
person came in~"t With this statement, let us con-
U'&St.the rcm~able confession of John Beaumont,
the Platonic philosopher.! "· I would not," he
• Pinel on l~~~anity, translation by Dr Davis, page 144.
t Nicolai on Spec:aee, &c. Niehollon'•Joumal, Y4L vi. p.l68.
:t" Had. thia 1DIII," aya Dr Ferriar, " inatead.ol irritatiJIB
bJa meatal m-e, by the etady ol P1atoDie philoeophete, p1ICed
~~ SPECTH+1I,~m~·IJIIIQR.NED
fi")r" '' ~~. the who~e. wodd:~ whaf...Jrha.w
m~~gi)Df• upo~ !lpU'Jt8 camJng tWJcetome; ,dJ4rir
~rst oo~ng W!LS most dreadful to me, the tJJiag
l j l) •
~n~ ~ef\ altogether new, and consequeady 100ft'
s~p~sing, though at the fint coming they did
~ot.- appe!U" to me, but only call~ to me at my
c.lwnber-windows, rung bells, sung to me, anfl
played on music, kc. ; but the last coming .W.
.carri~ ter.ror eoough ; for when they am1e• ~
ing only five in number, the two women before.
mentioned, &nd three men, (though afterward.
there came hundreds,) they told me they would
kill me if I told any person in the houae of tlleiJ'
being there, which put me in some constemafion..;
and I made a servant sit up with me four aiglu
in my chamber, before a fire, it being in the Christ-
IDS$ holidays, telling no person of their beiag there.
One of these spirits, in woman's dress, lay do1P.D
upon the bed by me every night ; and told me> if
I slept, the spirits would kill me, which kept me
waking for three nights. In the meantime, a
near relation of mine went (though unkaown to
me) to a physician of my acquaintance, desiring
him tQ prescribe me somewhat for sleepjqg, whieh
be did, and a sleeping potion was. brough~. me.;
himself under the care o( an intelligent physician, he would have
regained his tranquillity, and the world would han loet a moet ex-
traordiDary set o( confeesiona."
•. r ·. ti\J UER!TITIOUS nn! ;{'{- ~
:tJQtli"set if• by, beitig very desiro~ abd ~
:ttt :8}eep without it. The f'ourth &ight I··ooutA
Jtitrdly forbear sleeping; but· the spirit, lying·o~
the W by me, told tne again, I should ~ lillled.
if·I slept ; whereupon I rose and sate by the·'fi're-
eide, and in a while returned to my bed ; ·aud s0
I did a third time, but was still threatened as ·be~
fOre ; whereupon I grew impatient, and asked·the
spirit-s what they would have ? Told them I hltd
tbte the part of a Christian, in bumbling myself
W Gtxl, and feared theni not ; and rose from iny
bed, took a cane, and knocked at the ceiling of my
el\'amber, a near relation of mine lying then over
me, ·who presently rose and came down to me,
altout two o'clock in the morning, to whom I said',
,..'You haTe seen me disturbed these four days past,
atid tbat I have not slept : the occasion of it was~
mat fi"Ve spirits, which are now in the room with
me,.·have threatened to kill me if I told any per-
t!Otl of their being here, or if I slept ; but I am
ilot able to forbear sleeping longer, and acquaint
you lrith it, and now stand in defiance of them ;'
~tnd thus I exerted myself about them ; and not:.
·l!.lithirtanding their continued threats, I 'slept very
well the next night, and continued so to do, though
they ~tinued with me above three months, day
and night."
But to return to Nicolai.-It would appear,
from another part of his dissertation, that notwith-
37t · FEAR PBOLON~ TQ DU..~IPN
~ing. bja;~~., t.he. ·~"""~·­
he..sawwere.• ~eU... -.ridlQllil ~pow.¢ ,~.
~- in.W...mincl;a.U~PM~getBj -..•~ ~.
wbidl h~ ,,.tlywade i.Q erder to ~~ ~--'
coqt~ ~Y4 ,.. :W.. ~- ~' •tate..9£ ~.,
~r~ ~ '~After l .h&fi ~v~"" .
he observes, 'f frQm. the first impreasipa Qf ·~­
ror, I never felt myself particularly ~ by
' .~. appariticms, as I considered ~ tp_1le
·,hat.they really were, the extrao~~ ~­
qpences of indisposition ; on the conkary,.,1 .~1
tka'DQUred aa much a1 pouible to pre1eroe.·nw ~.
poaure 'Ifmind, that I might remain di~tly-­
scioU:S of what was pa&&ing within me." A. it •
·eyident, from this admission, that Nico~'s plaan-
tasms had occasionally some little·power in ~mb:-.
iqg him, we shall inquire into the effect. $hat dle
agitidon.had upon his mind :-" In ~ after~.
noon," says Nicolai, "or a little after four o'cl~,
the ~gure which I had seen in the morning ......
appeared. I was alone when this happen~,~
cii-cU.mstance which, as may easily. be c:qaceiv.ed,
e9uld not.be very agreeable. I went therefore to
the apartment .of my wife, to.whom I rebated iL
But thither also the figure pursued me. Some-
times it was present, sometimes it vanished, but it
was always the same standing figure. A little after
lix o'clock, several stalking figures also appeared;
·but they had no connexion with the standing
Of BncmAL ·IJI'li088105S. .,.
&gttte! -.f• Canusign·JIO other te880ii -feto• this .~
J*it~M ·than 'that, though mum !Mre'tmipa.d
hi-my mind, } bad BOt been able so·sooo eiltirely
~lorget the eause of snch deep ad ·~
.elAtion; and had reflected on the consequences of
it,-ia order, if pouible, tO avcid·theto'; aDCl that
this,happened three hours after dimter, at the
the when digestion just begins. ·
~ At length I became JllOl'e composed with Je;.;
.,et'l1t0 the disagreeable incident which had gn.m-:
~tO tile 6rst llipparition ; but though I had uaed
Wily ex.cellent medicines, and found myaelt inother
~ perfect1J well, yet the apparitions did not
diminitdl, but, on the contrary, rather increa8ed in
~' and were traosCorm~ in the most extra-
ordlnary nwmer,.,.
~'It is evident from this confeasion, as well as from
tbt of Beaumont, that when any phantasm has the
etRiet of exciting strong emotions of the mind, the
~ -may not only be prolonged, but repeated.·
~latter result occurs when the recollected ideas ·
ol•
fenaer spectral impre&sions are subjected to a
f'resh•·Jilorbi6c excitement, and when this effect is
~ by'the 'Vivifying influence of the particu-
lar•Hepe or ·Feu, which the remembrance of the
~_..may have induced.
A c:aleiof·this kind is given by a writer on phan-
• Nicolai on Specttea, &e. Nichollon'a JOill'llal, vol. vi. Jllll•
166.
m :PuatCU8111!Rt!M!IW.MBrm ftW)IIJI'dil.
Ullli'~aedtllly.di-.e, tbu8&'JUellntiofllfhitlfllp..
~ib ~',Joumal:t-"Ilbow·~gt~Jcl8l'
f~W#" ~ •ye, ,,, ia the •igou of ~,...,.., ilnl~·
~,,·tis" not. oeeeded-by auy 011e ia ~ett·
bo!IJ~ and.011igiaality:'of 'deep· N88lll'C!h na.t
wbGr, fQ1'1 nilE months in .aucee&Biou,. wAif. ...,..
..wted:b,t a figure of the same man, t~m.ig'
to destroy him, at the time of his going~ ~ IJI..·
appauoed upon his lying down, and instant'} • ·
appeared when he resumed the erect pomt~"' •
ia evident, from this narrative, that the most 'fi'fid'
idea in this gentleman's mind at his time of' ~1
to rest, was the prior impression oC the phantil!IW'~'
and, hence, the same impression was most likely118·
be-repeated by a morbific cause of excitement: ·:·•,
The foregoing remarks will probably aftbl'<l ~
aD explanation of many cases of apparitiOM, j in ·
which an individual bas been haunted for· lrittttj·
years by a similar description of phantasm, m·b_t.·
a ~ or evil genius, or by some supposed erm"s-~
sary from Satan, undet" the name of a fi*illa+.
In· short, ideas which may be vivified ·by·the n•·
tural emotions of the mind, are, by the ~pera..::
tion of morbific excitements, most easily ct>ii¥erttlti
into apparitions; and, when the illusiofis td •wtiti'ef\1;
they give rise are still heightened in their~:~
· superstitious tenets, they are dispelled :Wftt. CO'ti..:"
sidenble diiliculty, and are rendered tbe ·"diore'li-
able to return. • • • • •
~-··~~
. ~-~
e ---~~~
~SI.IOWR OX i8llliNnJi IURJIII»>IWI ~
.,~t.. _hre..J: IMUt.again·paaee• .:rn.~~J
t¥m~'IKhich·.has bem-pUIIOed :ia ·this anti- tlidifMiWI
Cl!llling dlapter :cannot ·but be oon-&del'M ,. · ~
~ For, ·in order to give·wfull•raci~
(#..the ,phenomena which.we have heeD' lately ~
tample.ting, certain principles of·the mind; to-•l~Wf·
I have. ye~ but slightly adverted, ft<Jtllretbe t\dteet-
~deNt.ion. I allude to the laws oonJlected 1rith
~ intallectual faculty, and to the obtrtacles whithi
ae opposed to the correctness of its operations;
claiAtg the extreme degrees of intensitY to which.
~·lt.at. ot the mind become liable from JJlOI'biab
C811j188.-But, can it be reasonably expected,. that
any individual would undertake such m investi.
gation, wh~h demands the consideration of every
phenomenon of the human mind as it- is pfe-
Sflllted in health or disease, with the solitary·
oiject in view, of explaining the subordinate in..
cidents connected with apparitions ? Yet, not to
aveid the question altog"!ther, I shall, in prefer-
eaee, quote the opinion .A other authors upon the·
subject, ·rather than submit to the reader any re-
marks of my own. This plan I prefer, because
the explanation of my own views would courpre-
hend the notice of many other principles of the
mind besides those which will now be quoted, thee
might require an extensive discussion.
Dr Brown, in his Physiology of the Human
Mind, remarks, " That the uruon of perception
S1Ja DR BIIOWX ON JONTAL ILLUSlONS.
widl ~ that barmooise wilb it, dees ualy
..mt'y-theee barmeoizing conceptiou, by gimg a
80R cA mixed reality to the whole, ia ahewa by
-.ue of the moet iotereatiagplaeoomenaof thought
audemotion. Itis, indeed, a law ofthe mind,which,
though.. futle heeded by metaphysical ioquinn,
eeeJD8 t&me far more important, aDd fu more:a.-
t.ensive, .than many of those to which they lurre
paUl t4e .gaeatest attentioa. Some of our.,IIIDII&.
vi.;d emo&ioae,-thGieofbeauty,for.ex-.~
me their inteoaity cbiefty from this cireuiDIItaDie;
88d .any of the gay or sad illuaiooa of our. -,.
aad.·f.n .are ORly forms of this very .~~
To .the aa~S, in the loneliness of twilip~
IDIDJ·wild cooceptioos ariae, that impreu. thea
w\th awe, wbaps DOt with terror; but it, ia. die
liHmlllllt ~ auch imaginationa, tbeiw.eye tllrn eo
aay objecta of indiatmet outline, that giTe. aa·it
were a .bedy to the pbuatasma of their cnna miad,
the phantaama themselves, in blendiDg with them.
become.immediately, with spectral .Jeality, aur-
aal aud .terrifying object& of pereeptioa. Haw.
o8eD, in guiug on a dim and fadiag fire, do we
-., in the mixture of light and ahade tJ,at pJa,.
before ua, resemblances of well-koown aha~ that
gttoW more and mol\e like aa we continue to gue
on them. There is at first, in such a cue, by the
inftuence perhaps of the slightest possible similari-
ty, the sugeatio1tof aome form that is giliar to
JIB. COLEitiDGE·ON PIIANTAIIIS. 879
us, whioh. -we iDcorpoate, while we pse in the
dim and. shadowy.film tbat ilutten. before us, till
the whole aeems oDe blended fi~, with equal
reality of what we conceive and what we tmly
see."
, Such is the explanation which Dr llrown hu
ginn. of 80IDe of the illusions that we have been
juit considering. Mr Coleridge, with no lees
aeuteoeaa;. has adverted to the eel£.UJJJe ,priuci-
~ while. proposiQg to account for Luther's apr
paritiellso . His words are the followiog :-" In
aid Gfthe present .case I will only remark, tbat·il.
wou1d appear incredible to pe~ not accuatomed
to 1hese ·subtle notices of self-obeenat;.ou, what
....U Uld remote resemblances, what mere hint&~
likenea from 10me real external object, ~
ihhe ;ahape- be aided by colour, will su11ice to
~e a Tivid thought consubstUltiate with the ~
Qbjeet, and derive from it an outward peroepb'bi-
JitJ.~.
·This very correct view cannot meet with a better
ijluetration than in a <:ase mentioned by Dr Cftcb.
toa, to a put Qf which I have beforeadverted. {See
ptge 106.) ·
. In the mind of a superstitious female,
the w~ll-known morbid symptoms which pncede a
~of epilepsy, suchas the aura eptleplicar-tlte lu.
• FrleDd, b7 S. T. eot.idp, Baq. vol. I. P• 146.
880 PHANTASMS SUGGESTED BY RESEMBLANCES.
minous senaations that are well known to oacasioo.
spy itppre88 the vil!ion,-the illqsive sensations of
t.c;M.&dl. on various parts of the body; suggested
:QUmy remote resemblances of the angels··and devjls,
which were the prevalent_ ideas of her aupersti-
tious mind; 'fhese ideas had been recalled by the
Jaw of association, and when rendered 88 inten8e aa
~··impressions, ·consubalantiated-(to -use Ml'
Coleridge's term) with the morbid impre~ona that
were the result of her disease, and were intimately
blended with them. " While the angels," aa,s
this female in the narrative which she .has given
of her illusions, " thus spoke to me, a light like
that reflected from the·river Diele, seemed to shlae
ia·the apartment. It moved up and ·down, and
then disappeared, upon which I felt 88 if SOlD
person pulled out the hairs of my head, bu.t.the·
pain was to be borne. The light came again, and.
the pain ceased entirely; it again disappeared,'
and I felt as if the flesh on my back was torn from•
the bones by pincers; the light came again, ~d I.
. .
was then beUer. It again went away, and I fek
as if my shoulder-blades were torn from eaeh·
other; my heart also felt as if it were torn out fl.
my breast, and laid between my shoulders, where-
it .
died. I thought these must be my. l¥t mo.
Jll#lll-~.; ~d I then beheld the deyil.~~.•~.
young angel. He came from behind the ~' with
his b~k foremost. AU that I saw of.him, how-
...- - --
·- DR:BitOWN ON·ILW810NS eP sOUND; :WJE
etlet' <;;u ··IUs·arm, a tail about two spatts'ttiek~'
Whitb·resembled a serpent, and his JteCk, ·and &lw
back·part of his bead. ~ I bad aot ·time to eumi«e'
him·minutely, for the angel pushed him awaywitli
his elbow."
Other incidents; referable to a similar law otthe
mind, but which more particularly regard hearing~
arelikewise mentioned by Dr Brown. " The old
proverb, which says, that ' As a fool thinketh so the
bell elinketh,' is a faithful statement of a physiCal
phenomenon of the same kind. When both the
aii- and the words of any song are very farililiar to
us, ·we scareely can refrain from thinking, while
the melody is performed by any instrument, with-
oUf·a.•oca.l accompaniment, that the very wonls
ate ioating in the simple tones which we hear. In
lifee:IDI.Illler, if any one beat the time of a paiticu-
~·air, on a table or other sounding body that is
iaea'pahle of giving the distinct tones, it may be
dilicnlt for a listener, however well acquainted
wkh it, ¢o discover the particular melody; but, as
adOn aa it is named to him, be will immediately
«li~er in the same sounds, not the time merely,
but the w:ry tones, that are only conceptions of·
his own mind, which, as they harmonize with the
sounds tbat are truly external, seem themselves ·
alao to be external, and to convert into music what
before was unworthy of the name. I might add
many other illusb·ations of the same principle ; for
S8l T.uso-s PAlllLIAR SPIJliT.
in the constitutionotthe mind, as I have said, theft
i8 acarcely a principle of more extensive inSueoce.
But the examples which I have already ad4ttced
may be sufficient to shew the vivifying influence «
perception on the conceptions that harinonize aacl
unite with it, and to throw light also on the mode
in which I conceive this vivifying effect ·to take
place, by the diffusion of the felt· reality ol one
part of a complex group to the other parts of it,
which are only imaginary."
To the same phenOIDena, when modified by ~
ease, Mr Coleridge alludes. After expressing ..,.
wish to devote .an entire work to the inv~
of such illusions as are connected with popular
auperstitions, .he thus proceeds,-" I might th•
es.plain, in a more satisfactory way, the mode U.
which our thoughts, jn states of morbid slumbS-,
become at times perfectly dramatic, (for in celtaiD
sorts of dreams the dullest wight becomes a Shak~
speare,) and by what law the form of the vi8ioo
appears to talk to us its own thoughts, in a voiQe
as audible as the shape is visible; and this to do
~ten-times in connected trains, and not seldom
even with a concentration of power whi~ nw.y
easily ·impose on the soundest judgment, uniA-
atructed in the optics and acoustics of tbe ~
Jense, tor·revelation• and gifts of pteaeience.~ ,,..
The best example of this view is perhaps tp..~
found in the illusions of Tasso, as related by Mr
7
TASSO'S FAMILIAR SPIRIT. 888
Hoole. "At Bisaccio, near Naples, Manso had
an opportunity of examining the singular efFects
at Tasso's melancholy, and often disputed with
him concerning a familiar spirit which be pre-
tended conversed with him ; Manso endeavoured
in vain to persuade his friend that the whole was
the illusion of a disturbed imagination ; but the
latter was strenuous in maintaining the reality of
what he ~rted, and to convince Manso, desired
him to be present at one of the mysterious con-
versations. Manso had the complaisance to meet
hiui next day, and while they were engaged in
discourse, on a sudden be observed that Tasso
kept his eyes fixed on a window, and remained
iu a mander immoveable : be called him by his
Dlllite, but receiyed no answer ; at last Tasso cried
out, ' There is the friendly spirit that is come to
converse with me ; look ! and you will be convin-
ced of the truth of all that I have said.'
" Manso beard him with surprise ; he looked,
but saw nothing except the sun-beams darting
through the window; be cast his eyes all over the
roOm, but could perceive nothing;, and was just
going to ask where the pretended spirit was, when
he heard Tasso speak with great earnestness, some~
t(ines putting questions to the spirit, sometimes
giving answers ; delivering the whole in sueh a
pleasing manner, and in such elevated expressions~
that he listened with admiration, and had not the
884 CONCLUSION.
least inclination to interrupt him. ·At last, the
uncommon conversation ended with the departme
of the spirit, as appeared by Tasso's own words,
who, turning to Manso, asked him if his doubts
were removed. Manso was more amazed thaa
ever ; he scarce.knew what to think of his friend's
situation, and waved any farther conversation on
the subject."
It is with reluctance that I quit the notice of
other similar cases. But to explain the laws that
give rile to these illusions is one thing,-to explaia
the phenomena connected with them when they •
occur, is another. An object of the last-mentioD-
ed kind cannot be attempted but in connexion with
almost all the phenomena of the human mind. To
pursue the subject, therefor~ any farther, would
be to make a dissertation on apparitions the ab-
surd vehicle of a regular system of metaphysics. .
But, in expressing these sentiments, I would
not be mistaken. While I am merely alluding ...
the awkwardness of accompanying a theorv of
apparitions with a complete investigation. of the
laws of the human mind, I am very far from un.
derrating any well-recorded phenomena ol tbia
kind, although they should not be immediately
connected with the morbid origin of such illuaioos.
It is, indeed, one of the leading objects of thie
.OO!llCLUSION• ..886
.~~ to prQVe, t,b~J,t they are l>f the greatelit
.impoJ:".tance Pi .e~pWning .the"laws of the h1UWU1
mind. as they _
oocur ;n healt~ ~d as they are
modified by dise8!1e. On this _
account, it is ~ be
_
lamented that ma.ny v~uable facts, w.hi~ in~
exciteme11ta of the·mind are calculated to,develop,
_should have been, on the ope ha.nd, distorted by
snjlerstition, or, on :the _othez hand, totally con-
cealed from the world for fear of ridicule. But
Nicolai's interesting .detail <?f his. Ol!n .case first
shewed in what light spectral impressions ought to
be considered. Nor· can I conclude the~~e re-
.searches more appropriately, than by holding out,
as a memorable example, the motives which indu-
.ced this philosopher to examine the mental phe-
. nomena under which he laboured, and that enabled
him to present them to the world with an accura-
cy, which must ever recommend his JUUTa.tive to
the attentive consideration of the physiologist and
of the metaphysician. His words are as follows:
" Had I not been able to distinguish phantasms
from phenomena I must have been insane. Had
I been fanatic or superstitious, I should have been
terrified at my own phantasms, and-probably might
·have been seized with some alarming disorder.
'Had I been attached to the marvellous, I should
\ftave sought to magnify my own importance, by
·'asserting that I had seen spirits; and who could
''li~ve diSputed the facts with me? The year 1791
:a
CONCLUSION.
would perhaps hue been the time to baTe gi•en
importance to theee apparitions. In this case, how-
ever, the advantage- of sound philoaopby and de-
liberate observation may be seen. Both prevented
me from becoming either a lunatic or an enthusiast;
for with nerves so strongly excited, and blood
so quick in ciiculation, either misfortune might
have easily befallen me. But l considered the
phantasms that- hovered' around me a& what they
rftlly were, namely, the effects of' disease; and
made them subservient to my observatims, becauee
I consider obeerfttion and-reSection as the basis of
all ratioDal philosophy."
APPENDIX.
" Begone, c:himmu, to yout mother douclll"
tBdlpNI.
.•
S89 .
.APPEN'DIX.
SKETCHES OF THE OPINIONS, ANCIENT AND 1\10-
DERN, WHICH HAVE BEEN ENTERa'AINED ON
THE SUBJECT OF APPARITIONS.
To give a regular history of the various opinio~s enter-
tained in succesaive ages relative to apparitions, would
form the copious subject of a large volume ; a selection
ofthem, therefore, is all that will be here attempted.
SECTION ·I.
Tile Opinions, ltrictl!J superstitious, entertained 0'/t tl1c
Subject qfApparitions.
THE earliest belief in theexiatence of ghosts was probably
derived from dreams, as well as from such spectral im-
preaaions as have been treated of in the foregoing disserta-
tion. When it is considered that such illusions are nothing
more than recollected images of the mind presented
in a highly-excited state, it is natural to expect that the
imaginary beings of another world would appear to put
on the same corporeal forma, and adopt the same manners,
as those to which they had been accustomed in an earth-
ly state of existence. Dr Barclay, in speaking of the
390 -PAGAN AND JE1111R APPARITIONS.
aimuJacra of the Rom&~~~, has very properly remarked,
that " the dress and ita fashions were represented u well
as the body, while, in all the poetical regions ofthe dead,
chariots, and various apeciea of armour, were honoured
Iikew~~e with their -.pn~e --.iandacD ; so that theae
regions, as appears t'rom ilte oayasey, ~neid, and Edda,
were j01t the simulacra of the mannei'B, -opinions, cus-
toms, and fashions, that characterized the times and
countries in which their poetical historians flourished... •
The religious eft"ect of this belief has been by no one
more ably demonstrated than by the learned Farmer.
He has satisfactorily shewn that the woi'Bhip of tbe hea-
then nations corresponded to their notions of human
ghosts, and was founded upon it. t I)reams alao flave
deeply entered irtto the tenets ot nialiy rellgion"s,':""""''ucli
phenomena having been ever regarded as prop\etic indica.:
tiona communicated to mankind by supernatural :indu..:
ence. Aristotle wrote on divination by dreams, as well
as Zeno, Cleanthes, Chryaippus, and other ancient philo-
sophers.
The opinions relative to apparitioas which may be
found in_Jewish traditions, proceed upon the doctrine
subsequently entertained by Christians, that tbe spirits
of the dead were !!Ouls that bad obtained a sort oftempo.
rary respite from the pains of purgatory, .to whicll 'tbey
had beCome subject after death. It was even suppOsed
that the righteous were conducted through 'beU, that
•-Bl&nlaJI• Litn..t ~. ~pwp.u.,
t : Bee~ete ·l. ~ithe~oneluaiGD ofd*.fllt.
I
J.BWISH ~Mt~TJ~S. 391
dley aigbt be 4lCIIDpletely purified in ~be Uerr,~vfllt')}~.
nur~· before they eoulduceadinw ~ ·~ l9.~n~
mity with ~ «Pnioa, eeveraJ .gbolwtoriea~~r
by dul Jews, relative w $he coavenationa the li.W ·
with the Jead ; ~t t~ is the 4lialope wbich,,i.,
place with 'J'uruua Rufua and the ghost of ~is mtlaer,,apd .
that of the Rabbi Akkiva with an individual .wbo w~.
coodeauaed after death to carry wood for fuel to the &e
of hell. t A third 1181J'ative, farin« -#judea, I el¥ill
give at leugtll on account of the precept that the fable is
io&eaded to convey.
" There·bappeaed 8011lttbiDg remarkable io tJae .bol.y
COIDIDUDity at W0110s. It fell oot that a Jew, w-
oame was Pooim, an ancient mao, whose busioesa
was altogether about the dead, comipg to the eoor·
of ~ ~ saw ooe atauding there w<ho had a
gadaod oo his head. Tlaen wu Rabbi P011im afraid,
imaginiug it was a spirit. Whereupop .be whom
tbe JM,~i IQ' called to him, saying, 'Be DOt afraid,
but pua furward : Dost not thou know me ?' Then
said Rabbi Ponim, ' Art not thou he whom I bu-
ried yesterday?' And he was answered, ' Yea, I am
he.' Upoo which Rabbi Ponim eaid, ' Why comeat Uwu
h~ther-? How fareth it with thee in the other world?'
ADd the apparition made answer, 'It goeth well with
me, and I am in high esteem io Par..tise.' Then said
the Rabbi, ' Thou wert but looked upon in the world ..,
an insignificant Jew... What good work didst thou that
• Stebelin'e Traditiona of the Jews, vol i. (Preface) page 54,
t See Note 2.
;.:.~ -;
SS! POPISH APPARITIONS.
'I' . .\ . ,.
thou art esteemed?' The ·apparitioo aaawered; c ·I will.
t~JI' dtee: The reuon of tlte eateem I am in ia,-that
k ~-every· morning early, and with fet'Vency ut--
t~ -IPY prayer, and ofFered the grace fNm the ·bot-
to.m of. my· heart; for wbicll reaaon I now pi'ODOUoce
grace . in Paradit~e, and am well respected. If ·th&u
doubtest whether I am the penon, I will show thee a
tOken that shall convince thee of it. Vestenlay, when
thou didst clothe me in my funeral ·attire, thou didst
tear my sleeve: Then asked Rabbi Ponim, • What is
the meaning of that garland ?' The apparition answered,
q wear it to the ,end the wind of·the world may not
have power over me ; for it consists of excellent herbs of
Paradise.' · Then ·did Rabbi Ponim mend the sleeve of
tile ·deceased ; for the deceased bad said, that if it was
not mended, he ·should be ashamed to be seen among
othel'B whoee apparel was whole. And then the appari-
tion vabialted. Wherefore let every one utter his prayer
\Vith fervency, for- then it will go well witlt him in the
other world : and let care be taken, that no rent er tear-
ing·be left in the apparel in which the dead are inter-
red."•
The early Popish clturch baa favoured the world with
numerous stories of apparitions, the subject of which is
~nerally connected with the doctrine of Purgatory. I
shall give Reginald Scott's abstract of ooe « these nar-
ratives, which was taken, as be aaaurea ua, "out of the ro--
sarie ofour ladie, in which booke do remaine (besides this)
uinetie .and eight examples to tllis effect, which are of
• Stebelin•, Tradition of the Jews, vaL ii. p. 19.
POPISH APPARITIONS. 898·
lOCh anthoritie in the church of Rome, that all ICripture.
must give place unto them.~·
" A certeine haDgman passing.by the image of .our
l.tie, saluted hir, commendiDg himaelf to.hir protection.
Afterwards; while.he praied before bir, he was called
awaie to hang an offender ; but his enemies intercepted
him, aud alew him by the waie. And, lo ! a certeine
holie preest, which nightlie walked about everie church
in. the citie, roae up that night, and was going to his
ladie, I should saie to our ladie church. And in the
church-yard be saw a great manie dead men, and .some
of them be knew, of whome he asked what the matter
was, .aod who answered, that the hangman was slaine,
·aod the divell challenged his soule, the which our Iadie
saii was hire: and the judge was even at band, com-
ming thither to beare the cauae, and therefore (said ·they)
we are now come togither. The preest thought he would
be at the hearing hereof, and bid himaelf behind a tree,
and anon he saw the judicial seat readie prepared and
furnished, where the judge, to wit, Jesus Christ, sate,
who tooke up his mother unto him. Soon after the
divels brought in the hangman piniooed, and proved by
good evidence that his soule belonged to them. On the
other aide, our ladie pleaded for the bang·rnau, proving
that he, at the boure of death, commended his soule to
hir. The judge hearing the matter so well debated on
either aide, but willing to obeie (for these are his words)
hia mother's desire, and loath to doo the divels anie
·wroag, gave sentence, that the hangman's soule shohld
return to his bodie, until he had made sufficient satis-
faction ; ordeiring that the Pope should set foorth a
R~
....,... ..
3M PROIJ.'JlBTANT APPA.BITIONS.
puWib,.J.'JIIe'ofpraier fc*>tlitJ'h.-aplaali ..o.te.· It._,
demanded, who should do th~U'IIatld' te'tM ~ ...._
IltliB. Marie, quoth our ladiei diM···-..n ·yooder. .,..._,
that lurketh behind the tree. ·!File .preeat:leibg :a&W
foorth, and iajoined to •alee·ftUGOil' ~. aed·,to <tlea
sire the Pope to lab the lJIUnes to douc~oniiag•w..-.
deeree, asked by what token he should .·lie dinece.L .
Then was delivel'td udto him .a -n.8 of.such t.ati~•
when the Pope saw:it, he knew his message watrue.~
By tlle Protestants, ttumtrous opitriona 'ftre .held
on the subject of apparitions, whieh .e\'en exceetW.:ia
absurdity the supentitioos notions of ·the chuM~ •they
so zealously ~posed. Nor did their opinions ecnooo
Jose ground; they were popular until the middle·of the
last ceotory. But, as I have already adf'erted ·to· this
subject, little more need be stated on the present occa-
sion. It was mentioned, that even in the Protestaot•era,
the realms of11uperstition were inm.-1'-...:tolilmoa& an tm-
measurable extent. In Britain, a boat of imtlginary
phantoms were'derived from the Btlperstid&'fllof the Bast,
that mingled with those of Celtic and Teuwnic mytho-
logies, and thus added greatly to the ·number (J( visionary
beings, which formed the subject of dreams or specb'al
impreMions. Scot, in his Discovery of ·
Witeheraft, ...,._
marks on this subject, '·' And ·kOO\V you thia hf \he
waie, that heretofor Robin Goodfellow and Hobgobblia
were as terrible, and also credible to the people, ·as 'hllg&
and witche.1 be now:-and, in truth, tlieythat·mllintaiae
walking spirits, with their transfOrmation, &c., Jla,. a
l'ea&On to denie Robin Goodfellow, upon whom tht!re•IMth
gone as manie and as credible ·tales as u)»>n·wi.-ea;
....._ --- ~ ----
PAG.AN APP.ABITIOMS L01!HJ .JIOPtJLAJL •
ariitt. ~ i& llada Del plea.ed t.M tnvb.,• a .-
Bible to eall spirits by' U. uame vi Bola .Gmdftlhjr.
• they baH.....- diriaen, """'-eim., ............, uli
OOIII!IBm'IJ,. -lily the DUDe vi witc:ML"
Ia the IC.gb)uda el Soudaod, the tpirii·.Brv.uie .-..,
autil tile 1alt ceatury, the ...tajec:t of.ecand ap&, aU..
muu.iag story, related aJoag with odten epa11J ridicu-
le.. adllicieady ilhewL "Sir Ntrmaad lladeud, ..t
10111e.edaen, playiag at tables, at a JcW~e called hf the lrilh
F~. 1rherein there are three of a lille, aad .:Ia
of them throw the diee by wraa; there ~ to be
oneUilieult point in the dilpoliDr ol ooe el the tahJe.
BRill : tllia oblipl the gamester to deliberate Wore he
wu to clwlge his mau, aiuee upoo the diapoliag el il the
...U..iag or lOIIiog of the game depended. At last tbe
batler, 1IPiw stood behiod. adviled tile player where to
place his· IIWl ; with which he camplied, ud woo the
game. This beiug thought extraordioary, aad Sir Nor.
mud heariag ooe whilper him iD the ear, alked who u-
riled him ao skilfully ? He auaw~ it wa tile butler;
bet thia seemed more atraage, for he could not play at
tables. Upoo this, Sir NOl'III&Dd ubd him llmr 1oog it
W1ll liace be bad learned to play ? ud tile fellow owued.
that he Beftr. played in hia life ; but that be saw the
spirit :Browny reaching his arm uver the pJayer'a head,
and touching the part wit.h bia tiager on the point where
the tablemao was to be placed."
To Motller dacriptioo of apparitions reeopiii!Cl in the
Hiplaoct. of Seotlaad I ahall DOW MVert, eoly becaaJe
it acaped my auentiou, while exclusively tl'ea&ior of.the
illusions eonneeted with the no&iona entertained Oil the
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
S96 PllOPRBTIC APPAJ&l'l'IONS.
lllbject ofguardian·spirit& "·Thereisaapeciel of.apirita,...
aays Sir WalterJ~cou, in hia.Border. Jrfinttrelsy, " to
whom, in tile Highlands, is ucri.bed the guanlianabipor
euperintendenc!.e of a partieolar clan, or family of diltiDe-
tion. Thus the family of Gurlinbeg was haunted hy a
spirit called Garlin Bodachar; that of the Baron. of
Kinclwdin by Lamhdearg or.·Red Baud, a apectre,.oae
of .
whoee hands is as red as blood ; that of Tullochgono
by May Moulacb, a female figure, whose let\·hand·ud
arm were covered with hair, who is alto mentioned aa a
l'amiliar attendant upon the clan Grant.''
. The circumetauce, however, deaerving most.notiee, is
the reference which the objects of second-eight are.aap-
poeed to bear to the seer's assumed gift of prophecy. It
is said, in one of the num~ous illustrations which have
been given of this.faculty, that " Sir NOJ'IDAIId Mac-
Leod, who baa his residence in the isle of Benera, whieh
lies.between the isle of North-Uist aud Harries, went &o
the isle of Skye about busiaess, without appoiotiug .aay
time for his return : his servauts, in his abaeoee, lJeiDg
altogether in the large hall at night, one of tllem, wlao
had.been accuatomed .to eee the second-llight, tolcl. the
rest .they must remove, for they would have abuodaac:e
of other compauy that night. One of his fellow..servanta
answered, that there was very little appearauee of that,
and if he had seen any vision of company, it wu not.
like to be accomplished this night; but the aeer iaailt.ed
upon it that i~ was. They continued te -.ue the im-
probability of it, because of the darkn• of the Bight,
and •
the danger of coming through the rooks that. lie
round· the isle ; but within au hour after, oae of Sir.
APPARITIONSOF THE EIGBTEBNTB CENTURY.S97
Normand's men came to the hooee, biddiog them pro-
vide lights, &c. for hie muter bad newly luded...•
Among tlse well-informed clueea of Great·Britain, the
belief in apparitions would probably have ceaeed to exiet
about the cotomeocemeot of the 18th century, but for
an importaat cireumstance connected with the hiltory of
•
.., illuaiOas which then occurred. Very. looee, aod
even atheiatical opinioDB relative to a future ltate of ex-
ietence began to prevail, and hence aroee that faehion-
able claaa of eceptice, who eelf-dubbed tbemeelves free-
thiraiera. Numben of pereons, some of whom were dis-
tinguiehed for their great attainments, then began td
OODBider if 10111e additional arguments might not be pro-
duced to oppose the torrent of infidelity that prevailed,
belidee what they could procure from the aacred wri-
tinge. ID turning their attention to thie Nbject, it was
eooceived that a direct evidence in favour of a future
state might be advanced, if the Platooic notion could be
eetabliahed, that there existed an occuiolial in&ercoune
between the spiritual denizeoe of another world and the
living inhabitants of this earth.
. While euch speculations were reviving, we find the
greatest names, from the time ofAddison down to that of
the author of Rasaelaa, enrolled among the aupporten of
the popular belief in apparitions. They wilbed, ae Dr
Johnaon baa frankly confessed, additional evidence be-
sides what the Holy Bible contained, concerning a future
atate of existence.
•SeeNote3.
S98 SEOOD..SIORT OF THE BIGBLANDBllS.
Thh; then, waa die true moti.a why .., ·w..mrWle
stories ·reJatift to Wpp!U'itieDI were &avauced-at 'the ~
mencement Mid tlte middle of the last oeotary. Other
eftOrts to ~fbte •he freethinken were by deputatiael,
or ttneritt.e, IMtihlted eten by Jolut · Aubrey, rJiili).
F. ItS.,\ihicll were ee'llt to 'the poor iHiterate,Highllml&-
en, in order top~ ·llll·tlle evidence that eouhlte
colleeted from this aupentitiom aouree of inbil•nce w-
specting a future litate ot existence. « From the cer-
tainty of dreams, second-sight, and apparition&," -,.
Theophilus lnmJanm, " fbllows the plain and nauRal
coneequenee of the existence of spirits, immatft!illky,
and·imiDOJ'tality of the soul:' The auth<w thea· P"'"
teeds in a laYiell abuse of atheists, dei&ts, alkl frettlliok·
ne, ...,tboae adepts in seit!oce, that refine tb-.elverliato
ibfiddity, who are the nuisances of eoeiecy, and th•..._
~ace-of human nature,-who bringtbeUJselYeB ow•.,.
1!1'hh M brute·beasts that perish:' ·
'111egeneral result attending th-e~ ofthe~
men whoconmltMtbe·Hightandenfortbe purposeelf.,_..
futing the freethinkers, may now be briefly etated. They
learned that the second-eight was •• a thing verytreohle-
some to them that had it; and that they would ~y
be rid of it. For if the object was a thing thtrt W'88 ter-
rible) they ~ -eeren to sweat and tremble, and lltriek at
the apparition. At other times they laughed and t.eld
the thing cheerfully; just eccording as theI tiling ._
pleasant or astonishing." They found daat· ~:U. WIMW.
di!,lary with seers to see houses, gardens, ~ tree1 in
places void of all these ;" that •• some found themeelftll,
as it were, io a crowd of people ;" that visions were seen
SECOND.smliT.OF .mtE W&IILANDBBI. 899
iaoijia1i.Ueooeioun. .ld not·'liltJiaowilebe~
ed. Thia is in fact the only information that it 1vonh
any notice regarding the aecond-aight of the HigbJanden.
But the active aclentific.geatlemen, who wiahed to ai-
leoce the freethinkers by their reeean:hes, were not thUJ
content. ~-foGnd that claiWieo, bo-, &Del co1n,
poaessed the aecond-aigtlt ; •• the aecond-aight might
be communicated by sympathy ; and « tlwt a•!J perMm
tluJI·pletued ·migM get it tauKIU !aimfor a pottrtd qf to-
-·billy, it ismpeeeible to eerioualy ~ any Carthtr
ib dacribiog 'thill faottltr of the ~ ~~eer,-a faculty
which so ieriOIQ81y e~ the contemplative mind ofthat
great colt»~tt8 qflitet'tltftre, (aa hie admirers call him) Dr
.hlltn.on. Suf&ee it to say, that by the lam~ information
derived ftom the Highlands, ~copia ia now scarce-
ly kn01n1. •• To have circumnarigated theWestern lalte,..
says Dr M1U:ICU1locb, in the rotlowing excellent ~
'' 'trithout even mentioning the aecoDtf..sipt, •oold he
Ullpardonable. No inhabitant ofSt KiJda preteodi to ha..e
been fbrewaroed of our arrival ; ceasing to be believed,
it haneased to exist. It ia inditinent·whe&her the' pro-
pagators of an impotture, or of a piece of~uperoatural
ptrilosoplay, be punished or rewarded. In either case the
pliblie atteacion is direetechowanls the agent ; whether
by1hebw-ning dl the witch, or by the flattering diltiac-
rion which ·auended the Highlaad seer. When witches
'ltere no longer burnt, ·witchcraft disappeared. Since
the leQOIMl-aij~t .baa ~n limited to a doting old woman
or a hypochondrical tailor, it baa been a eub,jeet for
400 HANY GHOST-STORIES FORGED, h.
ridicule ; and, in matters of this nature, ridicule ia
death.~•
SECTION II.
Tke Opinion~ entertaiJted agaiftlt tke Credibilit9 qf
Glwlt-storiu.
THEBB is perhaps no age of history in which the idle
attempts to reconcile the wild incidents of spectral
impressions, have not induced many learned people to re-
ject the whole, or most of them, u fabulous, or aa the
coinage of rank impottora. Hence, probably, the ridicule
which apparitions incurred frOm Lucian, and hence the
doubt which, in the 16th century, Reginald Scot eater•
tained relative to Martin Luther's viaions, a few of wbicla
were certainly fabrications. " We thinke that," aaya be,
" to be a lie, which is written, or rather fathere!J. upoo
Luther, to wit, that be knew the devill, and was verie
converaant with him, and had eaten manie bushels of
salt and made jollie good cheere with him ; and that be
wu confuted, in a disputation with a real divell, about
the abolishing of private mas&ll.''
It is, indeed, certain that many stories of apparitiona
are either gross forgeries, or are attributable to the tricb
of jugglers. The devils which Benvenuto Cellini aaw,
when be got into a conjurer's circle, are, b.Y Mr Roecoe,
the learned translator of his life, referred to the eft'ect8
• Description ofthe Westem lales, by Dr Maceulloch, vol. U. p. 12.
GHOSTS A.TTBJBUTBD TO BA.LWCINATIONS. 401
ofa magic-Jaotero. Graa&iar, honrer, that thia ,..the
cue~ the cmci&ed atate of CeJliDi•a miad woolcl patly
coowibute to aid &he deceptioD pnctiaed upoo him.•
But a great period for the fahric:atioo of ~
waa to supply the demaad of tboee iodiriduaJa who ,.,._-
ed to coofute with them the inidel opioiooa of tile free..
tbinken.t It waa in thia period that &he UA~uiaite atory
waa get up of the gOO. of _
Mn Veal, who came into &be
world for oo other purpc11e than to 8IIW'e Mn Bupaft,
tba~ from her ~~~:tllal kaowledgeof uodaer l&ate of exist-
ence, " Dr,elincoun•a book of dea&h na the belt OD that
IUbject eYer witten... Ofcoune. &be atory of Mn Veal
(a pod beokaeller'a puff) naturally fouod ita way ioto the-
pte(aoe to the tranalatioo of D~ Aoo&her ro-
IIUIDCe of the aame aort. ia the popular a&ory of Lord
LiuJ~·· waroing, that he ia aaid to have received before
~· -
S&eTION III•
.TM Ref~ence qf Appa'rition1 to HallucinatWiu, ~·
h bae long been common to refer apparitiooa to hallaci·
natiooa. For ioataoce, a penon, prior to an epilepey, may
see every thing crooked. -In aome afl'ectiooa of viaion,
object. are greatly magnified : thus, a gentleman whom
I bow in Edinburgh saw, about twilight, a eow, mag·
nified to teo or twelve timea ita original aiJie, gruiog
on a field, like IODie of the Brobdingoag cattle which
Swift baa deacribed. But it ia evident that optical de-
• See Note 4. t See Note 6.
4()1 SOIIB .&.,...., BASl'LY UPI.ia\INBD.
cep&M. will apJaill ...a •err few of •abe appuitioa-
...... wbWt are noo.ded. An haUocilluima, puUp
the moet._.pa., mifht llrile froJD tlae·phm•-«
iaclireDt viaioo1 u Dr Brewster, to wboaure owe eo audt
oa the taiJject ()( O}Kiea, bu poioted out in a nlaaWe
paper nad by him to the Roy8l Seciety of EdlollaJorh.
Tbe:cc.aawaication has not yet been !paWiahed.
Ma.y ~ however, admit Dluch J•leuued
explana&iool. of wbieh I ebaJl give ~o iostaoe& . The
6nt is from th~ Statistical Acconnt of Sc:Warld, pub- ·
Jilllled by ·SR John Sinclair.
" Aboat 6r.,·year& ago a 'clergymaa in the aei8hboQr•
hoed, wbase faith was more regulated by the MliiP'iC .
of pbilefopbJ than the credulity of superatitioD1 eiiiUW
DIOt lie pre'tailed upon to yield his aBSeDt to the -opildela
ohhe times. At Jengtlt, b~twever, he felt from dJ8'i- ·
eoce, that be doubted what he ought to have belie'Nll.
One nightas be was retvaiag hOIIle, at a late hour, frMD
a preebytery, be was seized by the fairies, and carried
aloft iato the air. Through fieJda of ether and fleeey
cl•bejoul'Deyed maay a mile. 4eae.ryi'C',.)ike·~•
Panzaoa bia dl.vileoo, the earih far diswnt ~w W.. .
arid~ b;rger thaa a oat-abeD. Being thus ...-eieatiJ
· ~~:of the reality of •heir esia&eace, they-let W.
Clown at the·door of·his owe houee, ·where be ~
*••itod to the woodering circle the aarveJleua.tale
of.Jai&radt~ePWre." Upoo this etory, I fiad, !n Mr Ellis'• ·
ediaic)a1)1~~ Popu)ar Antiquities, the follewiogcca-
ment is ntade :-" In plain English, I ahouJd mspect aha&
spirita of a different 10rt from fairies bad taken the hoDell
clergyman by the head, and thOIJ&'Ia be baa omitted the
SOME GHOS'l'l BMUN 8¥PLAINBD. 419$
~ iolai8tnu.ellells..........,.Uaa1111ao~ ·
but -tha•·Ule pod··maJl·eaw tlouble -oa .th& «euioa,; a11d
tJ..c ~- .....~ lloti•WriD, l)mlltJdJla.U. I&H OWIL
doer... .
.· ~ eK~ons of «h-..teriel 1ft 'l'elerable to
JMi'e •ilta.kee «·the 11ature of ex•aal oJUecta. The
plieltomt!lla <CODoeetei widt o&lae Giaa& of tile BMea are
koowo to etoery 00e. To* .-e cW.·of~ppa­
rft.ielv beldng tiae Fat& Nba1Ua, IUld tM tllilap 01'
Waterof the Deee1t.
Sometimes, when the mind is moraUy prepared fer
spectral•inif*-ioas, tlauust4mt&iar •hstaooawe·COD•
vead )a& gtieMs. Mr 5Nia pea a *'f to tllis e48c&,
as related by a eea-captain of.• :port of .~
upon-Tyoe. •• His cook, he said, chanced to die on
their passage homeward. T:bia~t fellow, baring had
one of his legs a little aborter than the other, u.ed to
wtdl: In \hat -way which bur vulgartdlom ctlts, i with an
up and a down: A few nights ·llfter ·his body had been
committed to the deep, our captain was alarmed by his
JJ.Ulte with a11 account that the cook was walking before
the •hip,· and that all h&Dda were on deck to see him.
The captain, !UtB an oath or two for baring been dis-
turbed, ordered them to Jet him alone, and try which,
~e ehip or he, should first get to Newcastl~ Bot, turn-
ioi out on farther impGI1unity, he honestly c:onfesaed
tha$ he bad ·like to have caugbt the contagion ; for on
eeidng something move in a way 80 similar to that which ·
an.Qid frit!lld used, aad withal having a cap oa 80 like
that which he was wont to wear, be verily thought ihere
'!18 sore in the repon thaa he was at fint willing to
PALINGENESY.
believe. A general panic cHased itaelf. He oNaed
the ehip to be steered towards the object, but not a
man would move the beJm! Compelled to do this him-
eel£, be found, on a nearer approach, that the ridicuJoua
cause of all their terror was put of a ·maintop, the re-
mains of some wreck floating heb-e.them. Uolels he
had ventured to make this nearer approach to the sup-
posed ghost, the tale of the walking cook bad leng been
in the mouths, and ilxcited the fears of many honeat aad
very brave feJlowa in the Wapping of Newcastle-opoa-
Tybe."
· It is quite unneceii88J'y to give any more illoatratioaa
of this kiad, which might, indeed, be multiplied to a).
moat an indefinite extent.
SECTION · IV.
The Opini(N entertained that a Gho8t rvu a ftlakrial
Proc/.flct, sui a-eoeris.
IN very early times we find philosophers inclined to
doubt if apparitions might not be accounted for on natu-
ral principles, without supposing that a belief in them
was either referable to hallucinations, to human imagina-
tion, or to impositions that might have been practised.
At length Lucretius attacked the popular notion enter-
tained of ghosts, by maintaining that they were not
spirits returned from the mansions of the ·dead, · but
nothing more than thin films, pellicles, or membranes,
east off from the surfaces of·au bodies like the exuriee or
aloughs of reptiles.
. An opinion, by no means dissimilar to that of the Ept-
PALINGENISY.
dlrealla, was revived in Europe about the middle of the
17th century. It bad its origin in Pallngeneay, or the
ret!UITeCtioo of plants, a grand secret known to Digby, ·
Kircher, Scbot, GatFerel, Vallemont, and others. Tbeee
pbiloeophen performed the operation of Palingeneey after
the following manner :-They took a plant, bruised
it, b~rnt .it, collect~ its ashes, and, in the pi'ocesa of
.ealclnati()n, extracted ftom it a ~t. Tbia salt th~
the'n put into a glaaa phial, and mixed with it aom'e
pec:Uliar anbetance, whiCh these' chemists have ~ot dis-
cloeeO. When 'the compound was fo~med, it was pul-·
Yeruleot, and pouesaed a bhiiah eolour. The powder
ftl next submitted to a ge~tle · •t..'!'hen its particles
being ioatantly put into monon, there then gradually
arole, ·as from the midet of the uhee, a:atem, leaves and
fto~eis, or, in other words, .an appari~ioD of. the plant
which had been submitted td combultion. But aa eoon
aa thebeat \Vas taken away; the furm Of the plant, which
had been thus sublimed, .was precipitated to the bottom
of the vessel•.·. Heat wu then re-applied, and the vegeta.
ble ph<2nix waa resuacitated ;.;_it waa withdrawn, and the
form once more became latent amoog the ·ubea. Thia
notable experiment was said to ·have been performed
before the Royal·Society of England, and it eatiafactorily
proved to. thia learned body, th._t::tbe preae~ .of heat
cave a aort of'life .to the v•table appuition, ..-d thft
lhe allaeace of caloric cauaid .i~ death.:
'·These were theit learned speculations,
And all their eonatant occupationi
To meuu~e wind and weish the ·air, . ·
And aim acbde to a IClUAle ;
" 'J ~
i. . ~ . :
1:~~......o.(.~
~ ... ·. lb·JI'~~~~"~·~~­
-;:~1 -' . . To~~N~~)If~~~~
. ~oU&h the ~t w&y a"!»out ;- , .
' ' · If ebe~ from ~~·a aallea · ··
~· Can raise the rose itself.in glAs~;? ! ' • ' . • • ·
j . , .: . . . • . I ',T . • I. •i
. ~owley lfll ,lllli~, deflg,hted with .th~ ~ ,(1(
-~ ~ au.d. ita ~~. !'114, i4' ~.ncei.Y.i»$ ,tk~~ Jwi
-.~~~ ~t;~ Wt~eoe11Jn tbeletterJ,wr;~~
.~ J!Jl~., of ~~ l'f:hWb ll'IIR. rc;~r,~t,pP . ~....
·~'!P of ·l!Mt..h~ ~.b.rll~ lhe mp,~< po~ of
-~ 11£W t~dP).l~wN.m~eJ,'.;. .• .·•:··i, .
: · ~ ·- .
··!:.;
' . .. ..
., : ....
Straegepower-oiheM·Hbcta yn&lit~· ···i ·.. •. .
Uh WiWI~ i.lu.l, ..4llotW witb--· ....
B•••~~"""~..- ..,• ...-..-,.~.· .. .
Tile ......up lly,.......,_ • .·, .• .
A!•wfMA~ ~,.,._!; · i ;_
.. I : •.
~..,.~~· ~-~Hl'W.. l. lo 0
l!o-~~·...., ' ! •!'· '.".' .
·Buwblia;it......-.w.m..-withiat-· · .. : .
...~~u.......-.a.:. :; .
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . : · - ' J, ,,
IIA..,.~ ;v:. 111114411•• tti · ., .. . _
- ~~-~-~-.~)e~~illJ:8W\t~ : . .
1 . : 1'he ·l'i!M• ~tamoa. expellhl!len..........
.-..or •·:ree~~..,... a..ptat·.by>ta..._.. .~~. .,,...
pieea that the..amattfrtue.c#~·lfaewwa'' I &II,
8lld e\'eD ita su~t•iaU-.-.., ~ bl, jq .It. Thie
ealt ... coocea1ecl.ia.:......-*1!...,. I;Wtpati\ in
motioo. Tbepalti..,.,.__._..,..., eaWimed..
ani beillg moved ..._ja.dle,a.ill.liiMI:-.ftl'tia, at
CJfUIICALbY ~ 487
length ~ tb_......,ie...........ce-1 form
they had puemd' frolltu~ ·Jt,... Mlideat, ttaa,
trom·the l'fJIUit of-thill tt:rperimeot, that there wu a tell·
de~tcy ·ia the-Jl8l1i'lleaol the salt to obaerve the·eamemhr
el pGiitioa wbidt they had held iu the liriar p1aat.
Thus; for. iostauee, each &aline eorpwcle nic:hin he prior
~tate had held a place in the stem of the roee-Uip, lfll'•
pathetically fixe41itielf·in a correepoactiur poaitbl when
mblimed·in the chemiet'e viaL Other pamcleewerti•b-
jilct to a eimilar law, and, acoonliugly> by a dilpcieiujrif.
fiaitt, renmed1beir proper peeitioD, eitbeP iD the ttalll;
tlte leavee, or·the-8owen ;·&Dd thu, at length, the e&We -
lpparitioJt Di'a plaat wu geaeratell.
The DBt ·o},jeet of theae philoeepben ,. to applf
their-deetriae to<the esplimatiOil of .the-popular heliefill
rboata. As it was iDeoutestably proMd, *'* the -.
atantial ftmn of eeeh bedy l'l!8icW ia a eert- of 'f01atill;
_.,, itW&ll perlectly e'lidellt in what ID&ItlleP 10penti.
tious notions must have ariaen about ghoete haulltiJir
dnuch-yuda. - Whelt a d.I hocly had lleea-cammitted
to tk eanb, tlae·lllta of it, clUI'iDr ... heatift&' '""
cea ·~f'ienantatioD; were-exhaled,· 'l'h&..UU·pardclee
then· each- resumed the tlmie-relam.&. llltualioD. therhad
heldin tbe" trviDg boc1'y; &Dd thai a c:eillpfoetehmaailnb
...,.. ittdueed, ealeoJated to .-wperatlkiode'-''• t.e
miude·ef·allllut ·~
h-ii erilleDt from the forecoing acceua~ that Na.
genesy wa notbiu&'1llOI'e tllau ·a dlemieal-ezplaaMioe ef
the·dlecovery whielr L~ W m.de; wi&ft nsWto
·
ttaeilmy-au......._,-tbat he had·ollienecl to- vile ftoeea
alt-bOIIIa •
- APPA.Ul'IQJtl; QEiaq«WllfORMS
.....~--- ......"-...............MJ«ftlllly
•'1\lNii·CNl .&Jail ••~1: .... ..,. ....., .. .:....-
..... t&.i.U .....~•• But, .W.·ilitJi*Y .....1008··
~ - · T,.... aleh,.u.t. he -.mec~· a;.qUIItitJo~wt
..._..,.......Wfaom St IW~ooeDt'e cllm!elt.iiD ~..ap;.
-.. that.tla¥: --~~ mi«bt COittaio &M. VIle.
.,.,...,.
..plaer't~..etoot. Tllepubj~ itr·to.a 4i9illatery•....-.
.Ori, a..10d~ tbey,pero41ived- in their'..W.:fOI'IIla of·-
Jm)ClQOed,w-hic:h· i•media~ly,,~.&Mm • deeia,...
.dal!ir. Jabopn. This. fact -,coJbiog. te the ~
of..tile :W..titute of. Paria, UJlder $be )JIOtec*iCJD Gf I.Qois
XlY., this learQed body _t()Ok,up • lmailaeea lrith-mua
aerioumeaa, a.od the .reeul~ of theia-..labours ~ ia1M
~~lfllia. Curiosa.. Dr F~, iA a. volume of•the
M~ PbilO!!Qpbi~ .Tnn•~::tW..h· Jlaa bees .at.die
.blbltl of otakipg an abe~ of:ooe .of tba Flelllill
~~"•· ~..icb I pJ;ettlJ' &iviN'·Qil.84'100UDt .of ita•-.
-~ ra~ .th~;~v~: ~·to·theoripall·di.
.~·- ', f: .: _ • . . •.:
· . ~· A malefactor was e~ted,. of wboee. becly a..,.,.
p\lfsiclAA got poeeaaio~ ~~ ·.tll., ;purpoee of dine etioD.
.t\fWr.dia~og o(tbe o• .parts .of th~.body,.Jaecrier..
·eel his.¥Sia&ant to pulv~ pan of .tbe. craaiuaa) -•W.
.~ a~~Y. at .~t tim~ :lMI~itted .ip· dMpeew- •a
.Th•.Pt\Vder Wl!l left in a .papu,J~.tbaJt&Jde.ohhe mu.
eeum, where the &88istant.slept. Aboat midaigbtbeiAI
......~ by. a no~ in the room; .wiW:b ~ JaUa to
.J.'i~ .io!~edi,at~. · Tb~.DO- ~-ecl .Uoat..dle .......
.·~~:B:DJ.v~ble agent.., .~ u ~ugth..he ~)**
.tb•1 polf~e,1 ~ tb~ .~i~ of which .Ja,...O..IIeWcl, •
his unspeakable dismay, a email head lrith opeD .,.
•
atariog d hila; ,.._..,.twe bilisti:• .,.,_.., wltitlt
formed .iate&M....__. .....; tileD tt.e n,. ..._
viaibl~, wlaieh ftl'eiOOD clethell with mueela aad iDU-
gumeata; aat, .tJie lower extremities eproutecl ont, aDil
when they appeare!f per(eet, the puppet, (for hia lise
waa small) reared hi..Ifoa Jail feet; illstantly hilolothet
came upou him, aod be appeared- in the vtry cloak he
wore at hitJ aeeutiOII. The diighted spectator, who
atood hi.erto mUIDbiia&' his prayers with great appliea-
tioo, now thought of uo&hiag but making hia escape from
the revived J"1ddias ; bat tlaia was impoeat"ble, fur the ap-
parition plaat.ed laimaelf in his way, aod, after diYera
ierce loob ud threateaing saturea, opened the door aod
went out. No doubt the powder was mUsing next day."
But older ualcJpua ...Wta were on record, indicat-
iag that the blood was the dlief part of the human
frame in which thole aa1ine particles raided, the re-
arranpment or wlllicb pve rise to tbe popular notion of
Jhosts. Dr Webater, in his book on witcberaft, relates
an experimellt, given oa the authority of Dr Find, in
which this very ...u.r.etDry conclusion was drawn.
" A certain cbymieal operator, by name La Pierre,
near that p1aee in Paris called Le Temple, received blood
from the banda of a certain ltishop to operate upon.
Which he aettiag to work upon the Saturday, did con-
tinue it for a week with diven degrees of fire. But
about midnight,.the Friday following, this artificer, lying
in a chamber next to his laboratory, betwixt sleeping and
waking, beard an horrible noise, like uato the lowing of
kine, or the roaring of a lion ; and continuing quiet,
after the ceasing of the sound in the laboratory, the moon
8
.· ........
l
rN0.2T - +~~'~J!Q~. ~.~t '!
beiug at the full, aod, by ahiaiur, emligbteDiar theehiaa-
bel'luddeoly, betwixtt ha.lf :aDd the window, he saw a
thick little cloud, coodtlllsed into an onl fo~ wbieh
·~ft~r1 by li-
ttle and little, did seem coJQpleatly to put-on
the shape of a man, and making another and a sharp
·damuur, ·did suddenly n.nilh. A11d· >not ooly 10111e
11obl8 pei"'I8DS in the next cbam!.ers, but ·alw the tat
with hilr wife, lyiag io a lower room of. the h0111e,. lllld
al10 the nei(hboon dwelling in the 'eppeaite·tlid.e·ofldle
street, did diatinctly hear aa well the bellowiar u 'ihe
veice; -
and some of them were awaked··with·the·nlle-
mency thereof. But the anifieer eaid, ·tnt•.ia;tbia,be
.found eolace, becauae the biahop, of whom ,lJeJ.IMI it•t..titl
admoniah him, that if any of them flrom •hom the·WoGd
was ~:xt)-aeted should die, in the time of ibl-patrefaction,
Ilia'~irit was went often to appear ·to the eipt ef the
artificer, with pertul'batiOfl. Aleo 'funltwitll, Up9D•&nr-
·day tilllowiDg, he took tile retort froM the·farnllot.. ead
·broke it with the ligttt 4ltnlU of a little key1 •aolt·there
:ifi the remaining blood, found the perfect ftl*~on
of-'an humane head, agreeable in face, eyesJ ' .-ils,
month, and hain, that wene 80Diewhat driD, aud!Gf a
·~!den colour:• " . ~---·~··
' .
the bDue, aad JIIUL7 othen." :
--··-
...; 'hiJ '' I\ ):!IIi~
8&05JON V. '.. .. ,_,.,d.
Tile 0p&11iotu efllertmned on the Subject qf G/ws.u,·~ aclt
.. ' . . . .. ' ' ···:fl
1t1ere deritJedfrom the suppdsed Nature C!ftlte ~ ;·
I ' ' > ;;
THJ;R8 caa be.DO doubt, lmt that in every pe• of
time,·tlae nde popular belief relative to ghC~S\1 bas 11ot
always recommended itaelf to the more refined opinions
- ef;pbilosopbie•!lcts. "Ghosts were tJJougbt," saya Dr
Fanner, " to COBle from their subtei'J'8neoua habitations,
er· fi'ODl their graves, to partake of the eutertainment
provit\ed for them. Blood, in particular, was an accept-
able libation to gh08t8, and more particularly to the
poau of bemes.'' •
Tbe pepular·opinion entertained by the early Chriati-
, ana l'eBpectiog ghosts, has been already noticed. Origen
·.·mm:ei.ed that 80Ula which had been guilty of facrant
·- .en,.-., aDd, were ·not purged of their impurity, eome-
.- Uauit•were Jedpd in building., or were attaeaed to o~her
pJ.ae. ,O.lier theologianB coqde.~nned aU l'iai~ orappari-
.-.. tbet had not the un~uivocal sanction of the Deity,
01aSaviour, or the angela. Athanaaiua maintaintfl. that
wheo eoula were once released from their bodia, they
held no more communion with mortal meJJ. Aupstine
remarked, that if eoula did actually walk and viait their
. ~!!~ J•e was convinced that his mother, who .had fo}.
:·~!~kim lly \and and by aea, would have shewn ftenelf
a.·:~~.b.~,~ ~o,f11~ to inform him what she ·bad learned hl
.:,~ ,l".we,ll Jill to Jive ~im. ~uch weful .~;vice.
t . 4 ') I ' J ~,' r• ·'
• Fanner 011 Wonhip o( Human S'phita,.page 434:
It wu, likewise, to correct the loose opiniooa enter-
tained regarding the nature of the gods, and the aouJa of
tb~-~~- that pneumatoi8JY int put forth i.ta pre~
aiona u a distinct science, . In e~ining, also, the sto-
~llll- of apparitions recorded by the ancients, it wiD be
fouDd~ that they ~ in their charaCter a&ording-to the
different doctrines -which \Vere urged . by the learned OD•
this subject, and which,'in course of time, began tO in'e-
~il ~mong the vulgar. It was by 'various sects supposed,
either that the soul was corporeal, being formecf fftim-
warm air, or from water, or from fire, or from co~re8:1
vaP<>urs; or, on ·the other hand, that the soul -fits itii~·
mortal,-tbat it was a harmony of beat, cold, nii)~,u
and dryness,-that it was part of one universal llo\iltor'
that 'dift'erent souls might be possessed by .one"iD\lln-
du'al. • '" ~n~ ., ;
' But I have so frequently alluded to opinions' 'oi dlt$'
kind chiefly pneumatologieal, which have been' >enW;'
t&ined on the nature of ghosts, that a renew-lit 1'1\r'i!h~
sub)ect in this place is quite unnecessary. It is SiHifemtf·
to say, that the notion of souls revisiting the gh>lifllfter
d~th has been a popular creect, not confined to 'ttilP~
gar~. bui·supported by modern no less than by 'in'&o't'
p~·.uosophers.t ·· ·.:.,,._,,,.,
' {, ' :1J t~ J /J ( I •
-·~~ F~~.a ~ummary of the opinions entertained by:the~~~~
~·~~bj~t, see Dr Barclay's Inquiry into'the op~~~!u.kns~t"
and ~od~f concerning Life and Organizatiofi,"~ltoft'ltf~
3d:· Ainore valuable present top~~~
d~ ~by litiS aueCesaful apoeare•'df ~~­
r6H'eotl~gln'atter and:mJM._· '·1 , , _,: ,_,;Jt:.rtil!i !!!I! lo n t.:J.
t See Note f.
•.
·-,-,, ,? :i ,• ,. :J
SIM:'l'toNVI. -:•" ',. ·.- ·: !··· ~'<:•
Tl1e Opinions entertainedthat G'kdsts tDeree.tleha.U•.M~Y.;i,·
or AsTRAL SPIRITS. · ' " -
'tmi_..
' ' )
THE notions _
t;r.ught in the middle ages regarding tlie'
soUl was, that ,it pervaded the whole of the body, being,
indeed, the active principle of assimilation, upon which
" the attraction, the retention, the decoction, and the pre-
paratioo" of the particles of food which were introduced
into the body, ultimately depended. The proper seat of
thia~ principle, however, was the brain, a particular de-
~ent of which formed its closet. This closet the
Cartesians conceived to be situated in the pineal gland.
T~e five Senses were regarded by the early metaphy-
sicians as nothing more than " portera'' tO the Soul ;
they brought to "her" thefortn8 ofouttDard things, but
wer,e ~ot able themselves to discern them; such forms
or .idetu were then aubjected to the various intellectual
~tions of the rational Soul or mind.
-~ceording to this view, ideas which were originally
~~ as the actual forms of objects, were stored up
lzy the, Jnemory, and liable to be recalled. This doctrine
was probably derived from Aristotle, who bad some no-
tion of i~pressioDB or images remaining, after the im-
pr~in,( cause bad ceased to act, and that these images,
e~~n ,,~urin% sleep, were recognised by the intellectual
pfipcipl~ pf. man.
-r.~lfAA,tl\e :uaetaphyaical view entertained for ~any
~~~We id~-not that t~~y w~ ,qere
llta!es of the immaterial mind, }Jut tha!; t!l~y,~~~~~-q~,
o;~ ;,d .,Google
fo~ins"biirli~g~s pres~iited ~0 ille l.ual'or o
;filinck· 'lh..wtJ"
th~l'tkore,· nbt a very uilieolt·~tu~,: at'ter':tile ftleJ..S.
mb'table experiment ofPalhigetiesy, thatthe'appantion·of
thii'rose, which bad been induced' by its·:saline pa.rtiCWf:
being'sublimed, was truly the proper idea of the ·roee• .
of 'thai'the appal'itlon' indue~ ib aslmitlfr itliinfll!P..... ;
ati 'animal body had 'been decomposed, wu tlte ·~ .
idea of'tbe ariimal. These~ then, were the e.ttel'rtatitlilll' ·
otlob)eets~ or astriil 8p~, «s tltey were ale&. named~; tllat' •
wete'well calculated to solve many~~......... .
Fot instance, wflen it 'eras reported that a: sllo«i~f' <it~..·
haU tal.;en place, philosophers &ntended tmlt' ·itl'WU
nothing more than a shower of ideas.· '...:.,,'··
c' t)rWebster~s explanation of Mtral spiriit iio ~ r
«' '1¥,.. says he; '' tlie experiment be certainly true,:thaWs
averred by l3orellus, Kircher, Gaft"arel, and others (~
migHt be ashamed to affirm it as their owil tH.t, oil'ia
ociular witne8ses, if not true), that the ftgmres ··a'Ml ~~
Milrs of a plant may be perfectly rep~ted, ldcf·• .
in glasses, being by a little heat raised forth of the '1llililai'•
'Phen (if this be true), it is not only pol!8itJie", bric $u
tib'na1; that animals, as well as plants, haV'e theitoidcial-:-g,.
figoures existing after the gross body or parts be41!8CMf•~·
ed', arid 80 these apparitions a~~e but only ·tfioae···ast\taJ
sll'ipes and figttres. But also there are· ahllpei.iamhppal·
riS!Jns' 'of men, that must of necessity pww",o:th~'ldllei
~oreal souls, ot astral spirits, do eJtllt :•JIItMVU.lltw
~a 'upon, or are near the blood or bodiHl'"J~ hin snrh
;•1
ft iu' l!vid~iift'bat' this 'notioo• ohitJ&tl1ptrflf'waC ~
dlftkhit from ttie Lucretiiln vh!wr,:·that-~paifMJis Int.
filma given off from all bodies. But Dr Webster and
I
~
otbetr,IP)tiloeopluln plllll*' ~ .4~ae,.-~ID: .~.,~,,1
aa-c~ ~-i~. truly ~m~~ . 'i:~ey .e':tli;I. .-.IJ~iJ
in.. rieJ, tJM..dimioo• .wbich. tile ..aeGta.•~e,. of t~~. ,,
aulleta~: of the body, wbllll they conferred upon it .mor~: 1,
eouJe .thu•olle. l'he view& of the Romana and G~,, 1
wenr•.tll&* diftierut 10uls might be, poue818Cl. by ereryin•..
diri4ual, as a ratiooal so11l derived from the gocis, and a .
aentieot QBe oJi&iD&Uog in the rour elements ; or tha'
evep th~ .aoula might subsist in one penon, in which
cue dUferent material tenements were allotted to thae
apkit.ual principles. For the fint soul a mortal or crus·.
~ body was provided ; for the second S<!'ll a divine,
ethereal, and luciform organization; and for the third
ao aulal, ariaty, or vaporous body. The soul which w.u
a.u.cbed tD the cruataceoua aystem hovered about it ~
~~. .
...
W4 •all new see how much Dr Webster and others..
.._ bMle~ ao the ancienta for the view that they
toW.-Otl.tbree eaential and distiuct parts of mao. "It
is ...-.evident," aays this writer, " that there are not
.-,. tb~ eaaential and dis,inct parta in man, as the
gro-.body1 CODtiating of earth and water, which at death
returBJ t& the earth again ; the aenaitive and corporeal
-... ,or aatral apirit, consisting of fire and air, that at
dea~. wand.eretb in the air, or near the body ; ancl the
Halillfot tA(,and incorporeal soul, that immediately retu~s
~~o.drJt~at gave it: but also, that after death they al,l
three exist separately, the aoul in immortality, and~
~ iJt,.:t,._-:tard), though soon consuming•
; &lld Jbe
¥tftl ~,Mt\,,, ;fll.a$dfaadcrrs in the air, il9dJ ~t
81._
"&1'~"' fi;-•lfl.'l
·;·:;~ 1".''1: ,-, f.•t ' ·; ..!.'- .1 ·": :orh h'pd6 ~Rt
6i'fi':?J1fttg ~If~t!' ~·-~~~r.' ~~~,.~, ~e>f·~·11l
~lj~ · • ' c • • · · J •rr • • ·
aif>Ji'W~.~.·te; n~_i i~~t~ '·' 'l.ie ~ b' ;·~ ~ ', '...tr&ri.r
~ti~1 -rii·e.Y· ···. · ·hu~o~ •~··!&ici.~~J~~
si·v~(:i~·~~~.na~·~·~u~ ~h,;e··~i~n~~:
t~e-~tad~ns i~pr~ upon the ini~a at the' li_~ur;·~~
death,along with the faculties of co~upiscibility and~­
eibility, by.which ·it was compelled to ft!t!~ for its re~~nt,;:
"About the year of our Lord I6fl3 or 24-, ·OD~ J!!it'.
cber of Ra.
.<1cal, a town in the North Riding of Yorkfbf~
near1lnto the forest of Gantress, a yeoman of good liB~~e:
did marry a young lusty woman from ThorntPn. ~~
who bad been formerly kind with one Ralph Rar.p~;
who kept an inn within half-a-mile from .Rascal, in ~~f·
high
.-road-w.ay betlvixt York and Thirske, his sistef~~~~­
i~8' ~vith hiln. This Raynard continued in unl~~'
l~t with tlte said Fletcher's wife, who, not content~.
with, conspired the death of Fletcher, one Martl;luo~
being made privy, and hh-ed to assist in the· ~~F:
: '·'"· _
,..,".
Which Raynard and Dunn accomplished upon tlle,~~~~.
day, by drowning ~letcher, as they came all tbr~ t~.
t~er from a town called Huby ; and acq~i.nt~ ~
wife :with the deed, sl1c gave them a sack the. to
convey the body, which they did, and buried_1t', m·
Ravnard's backside or croft, where an old Gak-,IJIOt
had ~n stubbed up, and sowed mus~rd~~;~~~­
plac~, thereby to hide it. So they continue,fi~~(~?~
ed C!lur&e of lust a~d drunkennel!!!, and t'l~.~-nfi~~nt~:
~~~~-wonder ~t ~·e~h
..er's absence
. ? ~_u
. :~ ~*~are~~exa
- ';.·
cuae 1t, ao(l wd, that be was. but gone ~ae1\'~ far
.Ome Write being ~~ved upon bioi:··· An~P.iciii coalul.t" •
~: ;.._
.....
PE,~Tir.8~~.N?~ ~!t?ltc1. ~11
~~::.~~:::~::;i~1t~~~ia~~~
·· !'!:~etcher, in.hia ~ual aha~ ~~' ~~~~r,.~fii~~;p:
u~~ hiin, _and aaici~' Oh, ,.n~P:~~>:e~~t~ re,~~:!r:
. y revenge Is at band;' a~ ever after, unfu~e .waa
putin the.~l; \it ileemed to stap~·befor~ .him~ i~~.#,epJ,'
lie became sad and restleas : and h1s own sister over~­
iilg his confession and relation of it to' another peno~,·
did, tbiougb fear of her own life, immediately reveal it
td Sii- William Sheffield, who Jived in Raseal, and ~as
a justiee ~f peace. Whereupon they were all dire~
app~eilded and sent to the gaol at York, where•they
•e all.three condemned, and 80 exeeuted accordingly,
near to the place where Raynard lived, and where Flet~
cher waifburied, the two men being hung up iil irons,
~4 ~e womap. buried under th~ gallows. I have recited'
tbis ·&tory punctualIy as a thing that hath been very
Diu.~Jixeil in my memory, being then but young; and
af(eertain truth, I being (with many more) an ear-
wit~··of their confeuions, and an eye-witness of tl!eir
enc\itions; and likewise saw Fletcher when he was
t&\en hp, where they had buried him in his cloathi,
whicl\ were a green fustian doublet pinkt upon white,
gl-ay breeches, and his walking boots, and brass 8pum
without rowels...
~~e·:~ay 'ii~w attend to Dr Webster's explanatio,n..of.
t~!~~~i~~·~. agreeably to his noti~~ ?f ~~.a1}R~:
'!~;;;:,;.',,~~- will say there was no.extnns1c appa
.· }\lti~~
~:t~
.1iH~~.at..a1~}ut tba~ all this .did on.!Y....~rl~f.·&Ofu
:'·m
~~ ~H>f~~. O';D C?DBC!ence,, w~1cb ,rep~-~~~~~~~-'
~~~~.?~~~?~e[ .~ hi!' Caney•. But_t~e~••
~~~:~v~n~t
. 8~
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
1118 GHOSTS/BBI'Jm'Diil) IT~FANCY.
,.._....,ddaetell!tb•·-ti~ and •.at,>d _,.,~,,it.
Wnk•tbr•fn* ·dae·.place·rif·li... ~ · or-.tlle 1pa.e
1riftwe,lltley:llu•inuliechB'..._.,.·lllld·ao.-. ~ ...
. .,bJ.'iag b·to bis'wt!!mflill'brance·more·thaa·U:._....
~'' :aB~·if.it baiholf arieeD:from•witlria; &ad ~
••• hia•thncy1 itt Md·been •ame•
likely to-have._
...ei·wMa· he wat1 i&, or near his eroft1 •
lrilmt. tiMi
aUIItheretl bbcly of.l'letcber lay. ·
Butcenaia.it il,.tllu.M
allliMed that it·Wltl-·the shape and .veice.ef i'letclllu,;•
aasuredly to his eyes and ears as ever he liad 1een OJ'lle.e
bini in his life. And ifit were granted that it wueolfiD-
triDsic, yet that will not exclude the Divine: POwer; wbielt
~lltlell8 at that time did labour to malie IUm .~
oltbe emel murther, and to remiad him vl the ~"Pe.P
approaching. And it could not be brought to paa eitllao
~~.&he devil or Fletcher's SCJUl, as we haYe pNYeCl ·'--
fuN'J and therefore, in reason, we conclude·tbat ei~
h was wrought by the Divioe Power, tO'Ihew laia:d.-
tatMit of murther, or that it was the astral .or. sydeft!l!ll
epiric· of Fletcher, seeking reveage for tile mwth•"·fl 'i •
.. 1 '
SECTION VII.
•T.U()pirti<ma tltat Glwlta fiJtre attributahle to.FII'MI!f'
'·' or lmagiMii<m. .,_. ·' ...;·1
; . . · . : •J' "\ l
THE early metaphysicians con®ived, that ·· tlie G~e
Se~~ that brought to the Soul appreheo~~olis'ot'&Oiich~
~~~~· h~rillg~ . smelling, and ~aste~ .~ere:~li~y~~~~
l~ter~~~!at~ ~?ntrol of ~ pen,ontfi~d_ r~era~ii; r~~
CoMM.?~~~~~~~~!,~!;•.~~~ ~~ana,~~ ~:~"!~Jti;f:>i~f.:r:=
'.•
, ......,. ~'Pl'Mfdt ..
···•lu;t a·',:;lradi 1o j~ocl'2 :11lJ ·k a~Hia •l•>IJt.a~>lqx:~ sds !!£'If
ltf .._..wpe dilcJa!Decl•.c 'Aei &.l,l.ttb110'88hlt~
..lqf. .s ·.miuiltsiog ptiocipkl ·•llo-•e~t.-tln 1tfte ~
...taf.We braUt; DO&OBI~tbefil~aofltbe.ou•....mt
thibpimlnpt t& ,(C ·httr' by.dte'S.Dall,·he ftitdfla~­
...~ •iH fiU'tlhear ....ctiem; in which aheftll :greadJ
...,...ror.10'Cadmioo.MDIC. · Common·~ knew DltfWJI&I
IN& di&iaences ;, the Soul·knew eaeacea; Coamo~
lrMr botldh~ bot crinmmstaDCIIS; t•e Soul Jumr -..,.
~;. ;CommMHense•recopised difFercaca .of IKMtlldl;
tt.4ilbal NIOited·~rds•
.dt;t•c.d millietuing p'riuciple to .the SouJ wu M&.~
a.IY~ wbo k~pt a aterebouae iu the back partofthe b~
w"*-:oallntiac apecies, ideas, or imagea of oiJ;ecta whicla
..exteroal S.oeea bad induatriouslyeollected, were tre..
..w.• ., . ~
·.>A.:drini! miaia&ering principle to the Seul waa Pha.,.
..y1(filAl'fCY). or. lmagiqation, whoee sea$ was .tbe ..W,
dieCII]J .., the'bl'llin. Phantaay retained objecta bfoo«bt
.,,,,h•· SeD~n, examined more tUlly tucb epeciea OJ
ideh ef·objeda-as were perceived by Common-se~..,..
J'llllged them, recalled the ideas which Memory had stored
up, and compounded all things which were different in
t'hU..kind, black and white, great and small. W}rtlll
Phantasy, "the handmaid of the Soul," as this principle
'!~ c~!ed,. had finished her compounds, e~e committed.
t..em ·.tQ the care of Memory, in whose storehouse much
~·r!i~~mbered, much forgotten. '' ~
, S.u~fi '~as the office of Phantasy, 'whi>ee. ioflu~n~:
!.~~~~~~~· i~ be acknowledged, en~ire]y c~ati~e,ctt~e
.'
-.J~~l;~~~]~&CI_'~o e_n~rtained regafd~.'!_g· g~~.tt'{, l, }
" Bl\'*iOo'Mr-,.'-•·* CNrr~lili8f,"
waa the explanation given of the gh01t of Hamlet's father.
4flf FAN~'<~~r#~fVS ,~~~D.R~·
If>dPJ.~.,_.~*f~.~.to .inqtl~ i"'•~ ·
DSJ~~~~ ,(,.-;; ~.lllQJe)ll~ .laugpac-e,.FI4JiGJ)R
e~ tp ,i~ce ,thia ill\lliAa· ._ . ...· k · • , ,
1~,.1fq, ~opposed. that w~~ <AmuaoJl~ ud -·~-
fi.~.~u~oate.SeDaell were su\Voct to laJtB .of~
~~1~ J''aocy was al"ys .wM.IAog ~y and o~.
*"'•evideQt from OW' dre,al08. . But the ~~~ ol. t\li5_
iJ;~dustrious b4ndmaid were always corr~ by~~~
r~ principle of the Soul. The Soul, by .QielaPSrP,f,
~faculty of Wit, looked into .the. raub , of Jf~
~un. and was then enabled to abstract sbapea pf\biqp,
to perceive the forma of individqal objects, to.aotic(i~,
to. C01Dpare, to know all universal essences or, o~
~ woll as cause u .!l effect. By the faculty .of.:.. .
1111', abe moved from step to step, ud in hill .~
,.sed objects accordingly. By. the faculty of u.-.~
l.{afld~, she stood fixed on her ground, ud a~
~, truth. By the.faculty of Opinioa, she.ligh\18 .~
~- to any oneside of a question. By the~uUy-@f
J.~, she could. define any particular ~
8y the faculty of Wudom, she took poaaesaion.w..,..,-.
tatQ\hs. Now: all this labour the Soul could not .et.ICOII'P
piWl, unleas li'ancy, her handmaid, was obecUeot w•
faculty of reaaon. But Fancy was not alwap to .be
thua controlled, the cause of which it willnQw J)e .~
aary to investigate. -
Itwas next conceived that the blood was subjected to
P~M·lle.at iu the heart, where it was }M,Iri,fiB4,~ P.,bled
-.tlu!ow o«delicate fumeaaamtd .4rtWl-~•· .A,~
of:._...then .fo~ the .mediaa ._tJunp:"hiqh,,file
Aoimal-apirila were conducted to the braia..::~~~
CAUSE' OF FANCY,; \tli~:/ J. I .~
there:apprised by Fancy ot die! •~'<iflawijbji4J,lVf.ctI
of- their ·good m- iH quality; 'u}kili'lKiial;t_htif~RP
to the heart, the aeat of tfae ldf'ec!ti6h&-; m •;a 1~'
..,andiug report of what waa·gt)lng on; ··'lf"flt~;-~
was· good, 'it 'induced love, liope,· or· joy'; ·'if·th'eL'eoJi.JI
triay, 1hatred, fear, and grief; lfut; lrequenttf/~
1tas 'what Burton calls la:1a.imaginatw; or aui Ul liii~i!~
lfatioD or Fancy, which IIOOletimes mlsconeeiringtfle~
ture ·nr·e«msible objects, would send iJtr ll1idl a IIIUIIlJil!tl
f6 apmtil W tlle heart, as to induce this organ to attrad
·tO itl!lelf more humours in order to "bend itself"' to eome-
fitl~ object of hope, or to avoid BOme unreaionable eallllt
of1'til.r. ·. When this waa the ease, melancholic, sanguint,·
elkJierie, and other humours too tedious to be mentioned;
rire-dtawn into the heart-more animal apirita wm·
eoaOOeted·by heat, and these, ascending into the brldir,:
~lexed Fancy by their number and divenity. ' 'SM
t1itn became impatient of subordinatio--. and no Ion~
ciJeyed the faculty of Reason. Falling to li-orlc, in tlte
m'Oit irregular manner, upon the ideas which Me~
W '!rioted up, abe would produce the wildest eompouncll
df'tJeDflible objects, such as we detect in the fictions of poetW
aud painters, the chimeras of aerial caatle-builders, alitl
the faue &iwnJI (as they were anciently named) or~
waking Visions. - ,.;,a,
. _., '{I.C.i!
• Jftai ~~has, iluome little degree, pervade& Jrf:~
.,.... -l'''ll¥..._•f lleepiagmeo," he-.lb, ..,,~.
-.ide Gpidf!~-nkiug -·• ideal, thiJaP, .,wrthil ~-·
-.u,.~•l!c i . .:. · ·- ~ ·'\'J''fl o.;i'liqa-illulini
;,.,,,Coogle
----
lli''IIE~r .,... Bertte, .,, tefftoft~; 6ft>._.
1*!6.10reeiof·im.ptaOoD, ·meh aa·lye wtlole ....,_ QIU
~, m•tnanoe: • that priest whOm ·cellfu·lrp•a..·
~otbllt OOuJd ~·kim•lfe from hit eeDI!ea whea ...
lilti;iand, lye like a· deld Man, voide of life ao~he-..·
&attlan·brags f1i himeelfe, tbat be eould doe aa much;·.-,
tJat,wJaen I.ee lis-. Many times such men, when ·t~My ·
Gillieto·theiDielves, tell atrange things of ·hea•ea a11tl·
heU1 what riai4Nls they have aeene. Theae apparitiOfls MLl
c)aee all tllGtle tales of witches progreaset~, daunting\ ri•
diag,. tralismutations, operations, &c. to the fOI'te el ;a,.!
ap.tia and the diYell's illuaioas."
·.Sueb was the popular view once entertaiaed of t1al
~ of apparitions. " It is all fimcy or imqinatiola•J"<
ia;·illdeed, the common explanation· ~ven of gbaatl at<Jtbe·
~day, not only by the vulgar, but even by the·~!
Biologist and the metaphysician. But Dr Brolnlj ill -...
riew which be has taken of superstitious impi'Niiona, has
'fW1 properly noticed more correct priDCiplee•coae.n-
ed·with the production of apeet~ illuai01ts ; iRD &till,.
dliere ie an unnecf.88ary introduction ef tbe word~
thtt, in tbia cue, arbitrarily refers to some VflfY -..
rioua laws, of which this able metaphysieiaa h• ·..
gtftll.ay explllllation, but which he baa eoosidered·'-a
aaotber part of his work, as meriting more atteatioa:tha..
hea hitherto been paid to the subject. . •. ·· ·
•.1~ Wba$ brighter col01an tbefta,.• qf6U~'giva.
ttltM4im oijecta perceived in twiHpt,.tlle ·~
oflthlt-Yillage wbo have to pass the ~,.tat -Jr.
lU&J\or, add tile little atudente.CWI~••••Jianl
cMried wWrtbQ), frqm. the uun.y, .....,..r.t~...,~
-._........ --
FAN£¥ ·()J:lBNl'E& FQJt.·HBMtlnP)m&\8. . .
*"e1..- tnntbJe. to rell)eldber1 ·kniYW ,wre~~., .·,~AV'in
tbe leOOdd alg'-t of tbie aorthern- part·of.tht- ieleod,-Oft~
caa be na -ooubt, tha& the ebjecta whteh ·the ·seers ~
oelve tbemaelve$ to behold; are-truly IMre Vi.id -~'
eeptioo~ than, but for the !!Upernition and· the mel•'
d\ely eb.-e~r ohhe natit"ett, which humoaise witltth~
objects of this foresight, they would hue been; and tfml-
it. ·is iu CODSequeoce of thi11 brightening eft'ect orthe- eJII8jo
tiCMt, as C8ftCJI1'i'ing mitlt tire dina tmd sluJtbvy c»jt'dl.ll
which the t"apoury atmosphere of our lake• and vaUeyf
pJ:eaehts, \bat FanC!J, relatrvel!J to the indiflidual, become;
4 temporar!l reali~y. T~1e gifted eye, which has ooce
belieted -itatlf favoured with such a view of the future,
w1ll:,. of course, ever after have a quicke•rforerigkt, aDd
raore--frettwnt reTelations ; its own wilder emotion CGin•·
mUicatiog still more vivi1l forms and coloun to the obw:
jeets whieh it dimly perceives."
·:A&er-theae very general obeerrationa on the opiniou•
lc*ig -entertained regarding the power of Fancy or 1m3;.
~ion, I shall now proceed to notice other remarkatM·
views, whielt, at different times, have been taken of the'
ialneii'Cle of this personified principle of the mind.
·:Van Helmont suppo~ed that the power of Fancy wu
11M merely conlined to the arrangement and compodRIIIII
ing of forms brought iBto the brain through the Jllt!dlmli;
of>the•&nte~,· l but that this principle or fawlty tJf the
Soul;~iiuvested w'i'h the power of creating fur :half:
ft\la ~......tlf of·the ~nses. Thus,hei!Oile'etrid}-
muutiteey"iaila Ws -heen a pal't&ki!J'; M the iuf. .l
&Vei!Mi.,l~EJ{Jiu: ~:10 crea..,.~Y' :oeif~Ww O&iilfl·,
J'A.NCY'S EXTENDED INFLUENCE.
Faqcy .or I~, certain ideu or eat~ of hil
~. ~:EaCh conCeived idea dbthea itielf in - afiect~ or
f~Di. fabricated bf·Fancy~· and becomes a seminal-alia>
o~ti.ve entity sub8iatlog in the midst or that nstmeDt''
fiencethe influence of Fancy or Imagiaatioo upon·ttae:
forma ~f oflkpring. " Ipeam speciem quam imimoa etl-
giat, fretQi inducit." ·
Another·opinion entertained by ancient metapbysiciaDI
was, that Fancy or Imagination could inlluence the Aiit~
mal-spirits of othen, so as to induce a corresponding fa2
fluence on the heart, which was the seat of the aB'ectioaa:
This opinion was maintained ~by Wierus, Paracelma.
Cardan, and othen. "Why do witches and old womeo
fuciuate and bewitch children?" asks Burton; "· ~Jut, Ill
many thiok, the forcible Imagination of the eae party
m~vea and alten the spirits of the other:• A very nat~
e~lanation is thus assigned for the effect of an en1 ~re<
_
In a much later period, however, Lavater conceiv~
~t the Imagination had a still mor.e powerful in8~
as it could operate on the minds of othen much ~
.., - .• 1,.
djrectly than through the animal spirits. The ~~-­
Uftion of one individual oould so act upon that of ~t9er
i~~ividual, as to produce by this operation a vivid idea.~.
t~e visible shape of the penon from whom this i~ftue~
~emanated. Thus, the Imagination of a sick .~li.c:1fo.l&
~rson, who deeply longs to behold some dear and &J:w.-t.
friend, can so act upon the·mind of the. same. ~~~ .~
~-~Qce ~ idea vivid enough to a,~)~~g.~:·
~-,t~u,, give.rise to the notion of_
a ph~~" ~P.fz~jli;:
~~n ()f Fllncy limited to ~pa<'Al ;J~ ~ ~~tAm.
~~ ~~-'!~ P~~~~ t~xp~~: ~!?~,};'~do'r.t~
6
.~1 •• .:· _. . .-:.:. ~,' . _· .!'_
.... , _t!l:t
OPERATIONS OF TRE KIND. .5
s1d ':,: <:· .. , • -· · -- . _ _ • ·,.-c._:l • • ·poi:t
a:~or it ia • UOnll at-. aa4 about ~ ~· -~
Jl!~ullmagination can 10 act opeo ~ miad f!_
~.J;1
dw relatiu, whom he despairs af Meine ~~ a _!~­
F.Oduce on the mind of the same Jelative aa idea of su'clf
•· . . , ')
iQ~sity. as to form a proper specta of the nalumma.te .
mariner. -
. This theozy ,.. DO doubt suppoeed to be well calc:u- .
lated to explain maoy coincideaces fJI ghost-stories, aod
i~ J. cenain, that there are on record maoy gbost-&tories,
which are in every respect worthyofsuch ao aplaoatioo. ·
SECTION VIII.
Be Opiniou •laich oltrilnlte 1M n~ppo«tl l•}ltlace qJ!
.-, FtiiiCJ to tl&e direct Operatiou I![ tl&e &.1.
Tn,
E opinion entertained ia the middle ages respecting
~~ Soul was, that it possessed an immaterial and immo.r-
tafnature. and that it was endowed with auch iateJ-.
lectual powen aa wit, reaaon, undentandiog, opinion,
judgment, and wiadom. No aooner, then, waa thia ~
trine taught, than the attention of the learned became
no Jeaa bent upon determining ita connexion with the
body, than in hazarding specuJationa reganliag ita occa-
sional reaumption of a human form after the body had
mingled_
with ita parent dust. It waa owing, therefore, to·
thia re&$0.0, tl•at perfectly different views ia time arose
~ing the nature of apparitions. · . ·
·-·· : . . ...,
'the;fin~,supposed indication of the Soul'a existence . .
the tt~ ofher facuJtiea upon the innate icleaa, or ~ntdt~;,
tiy~)f}i~5f-~ic~ she had received for her na~'do~:
Ottierobj'ecfa&bout \l·bieh abe waa occupiedwere ctie1i61t'-
~i- TQ,amJ.b'JA\CT.lV.~ l.:t( ~MN~·n· .
ap~'••-tlla• wenHsaeh ~ c:tm~e}!$ w.hMt,.
through the medium of the. five .Sea&e~~. UpoQ the~.-.. it.
of~ !Which:Memory bad Mored up, she w.-s ~IOJtii
in hll,pJ!it!lte cloeet of ~e brain, where sh11 de..,._.lae!l '
~&..~t-, ·and p8M,· iOresa.w thioge to 00111e, doll.._
anti aeleeted, traced.effects and causes, defined, arpe4l.-..
divided compounds, contemplated virtuoua 'aad vieMM» ·
+u,and reaaoned upoa general principles. But .._ i
re11th of her laboura was not commitied to Common....
m80101')', but to another ministering principle oame4 Ia,. ,~
tellectual-memory, where, in a separate storehouse. all
acquired.facts and general reasons were preaerved,--&h- ..
evea remaining after death.
The activity which the Soul was wpposed to display lip-! ~'
on ideas, even during sleep, gave riae to aumuoua leai'Jie!l,
speculations. " Dreams," says Mr Addison, " lqok lib :·
the> ~ioaa and amusements of the Soul when •e it! .
dieeocumbered of her machine; her sport.a aud ,_.,,.:
tiODi when abe baa laid her charge a!!leep. T1te·Soul ll :
cl•ed and retarded in her ·operations when abe .&CIU ia-.•
tot~junction with a companion that is eo heavy aad u....·.
#ieldy ia its motions. But in dreams," he adds, ~· she,
COilvenea with numberlesa beingf of her own -creatioo.,
and is transported into ten thoUIIand seenes of Iter OWII ·
railing. She is herself the theatre, the ·actor) aa4- the ·.
beholder."' The same view has been made tl•••~of :
Dr Young's reveries. But Sir ThoMas Brown:W ,pm-, .
vitaely extimdefl this notion much fartht:Ji.'·"•t ~t.;.e&.,?.
~" he·eaye, "that men sametimea;-!Up,!;llli.tlaHhodr1.,
ofrtlaeit4epariure, doapeak and reuotullbl'!t!theiQMitw-;.:·,
foUilf•· t~Soul, bfcina~ -~,,ilo-fretl,fl'ff$,:tlledit~t"v'
D.RJMJI6;1t£&ARimD A81
RA'l'lONAIJ• :, -,It
meJBte ef tile body, begins to reasoo Uk4 herMII#;<UMistqqs
d~IW in a main aboYe morlatiiy." .,. · t·.l•o,,!J
i!Jtith wae 1.1te opi!Jieu etrtertaiued ·ngwdihg 'tM:adlii }c
;
ritlf'OI the SOul, whtm nnfetten!d ..,. the dull and~ ' '~
gio·:Rtatterof Wirieb the body wu ~mpoetd. lp OOitJfll"' ::
~,then,. the operatienaohhe Soul ot mind with ta..··;
attaaibuted by other metaphyaieiaas te her hiiiHI..W,; '
Failidy or Imaginatioa, it will be perfectly mdent tat
they llJie' in every rea~t the same. Indeed, the eubot..
cl.iMte prineiple ofFancy had been oolyinventetl by p....
~ep:a., in order to give a superior character of O•
oellllaice 1D• the·unaided eperatio01 of the Soul. H D1f
thing went wrong with our thoughta,-ifwild and m
....
eoned pereeptiona,-if monatera, ghoatll, and diirereo&clli-
m8ne arOse, instead of regular and well•arranged ideu,-.
it 'WB8 not the fault of the Soul, but of her wayward eeti..
vat, FattC!f· The different vapoun .ent from the ~teart',
tbe iHt of good or iU affections, could not injve the
pu~ natuPe of the Soul, but might, nry uturally~
hlllte aa uatowatd effect upon her handmaid, Fancy. I•
eben, dtere could not be kB~a anima, but there might be
lfl!lti imagiiUitio. And when many metaphyaiciaaa were
let~- ·to•Mippoee that dreams wete less attrilnataWe to Faacy: .
th&n·to'the unaided at-tivity of the Soul, they CfMlld t*
staR this- hypmheeis without advancing .arpmeota- Mt
the•same time toshew, that auch pheootnena were ration... ·
aJiibqugllfar abuve-all·human compreheoaioo; that tltey •
w•m.tt ~orthr '.the pute character of the Soul, aMI,
Of theftlhrinil!wrifiu;uJ•y ·which, through this mediu~ me·A
ellil!ltfd~l1'lfltl1f·~" aay11 ~~"it ia WOII~IL
to--aflltwklll"wtrav 'o~~ptigbtliaeea ~ aJacrity;th•-Buul'-:1
W FAHCllm llUBPOSED c
OIUIIU'IIONS
~~ .aa~~-.·bf .,_..-..-.·~itJ.tart
........,...,Dl'!CIOnMI'IIe~y~irt-~ .tbdJthe)'Wl
~.ijt&lelacquaiMild... -..•
;The •g1Sire ahoulid·1ft ~
- - tlrle ull.ia repiu'teM and poiirtl'of .t~• :,JMt
Sii .Tbeaw Browe, to. wJ.rn·AcldW ftlere·fiwia tiibii;l.i
lar-opioioo~ W far-.exeeedea tllia vi•~ · ·His WGM~ti·
th..:-" Were my~ llteJIIOJ'1 u &itbfat as my !'t!llllill&-'it'
fruitful, I wCMIId aever study but in my dreama;•1uidltWf'
time also woold I choole for my dtivotierla ; ;bat- 4Jm!·'
greeaer memoriea have thell eo little hold on11ur ~L •
standi.oga, that·they forget the story,. and can oo1t ~
to out awakened aouls a confueed and broken tale fA t~Mtli
that hu paaeed.'' Thill is indeed a very curiOUii -rieoir,W:t·
not ill calculated to explain the true o~n ofa:re.•ltfi•
t'he speeulationa.entertained by the celebrated · ·~~
himaelf of the religto medici. Nor ean I help ~,
that eome of the conjectures on the mind and ifll-~ l
which are inculcated at the preaent day, might havebaitr"
no I. studied in dreama,-tbat physiologists-~ liiiftt•i
forgotten eomeconnecting linksof them when tt..lflnroWeF•
aad that, if there should be any impemction in1 tlle~·1
triaes which may have been derived from thie ·.....ee,''it-:·!
ie owiag to a part ooly of the vilion having .._,~£..
bend, 10 that, in the place of a well-arranpi't~;
we are preaeMed wkh what Sir Thomu·BfOtriltwodJ'
style, "a confueed and broken tale." • ,,;.J; -~ -··· ·.: ·
It tbue ap;.n. that the power ungnM'~·~;..
to bea hand1naid, Fancy, wu inconceita\1~.~-Jt.
a . . . . ! i•• I!{.t;IJ ,uiJ al .u~
;, ..... .. '· :'. . . : · , .: •a•l•l ~~a.l '!d bsw.;;JWO)
.". ... , .·,·:.-: ;·_~p~tor,,,,N_~.•,W·~h ,v~ rl!)idw ,LoiDT
;f ••~ ~'> - ·~ ."l.- . •
p~li,JIRm'£D:-tl'O·mBB IOIOKA'i -
....,.~.-~ l·hue-thewh fl&wrkllfii*
~,...,Uecl. tbaH.his- priar.iple-> hall''•tJ~llllfij·
JliWif'lf of mfQpwndiog<ideu or ~..a tJw;JMJtb""'
"teci<(orm..,_
that ,were cUller tnupt\to- W tliMtMf'
hy~..Sell\le8,·· ~ tJaM·wer& ncallld from tbe~uic!
ofJI~y; but tbet abe bacl even dae>iudepeuckntif6WI!P'
o(.~g to heraelf aew' ideas-of her on ; that ....
• )"Biciana .did not eftn then place Haiti to their ·
~ns, eoocewing that the Fancy of ooe·iadi•l-
duN!I:OUid 10 operate on the Seul of another, aa ttl pl'O-
dllflll~ the mind that was paaaive a regular idea; and.
if.~ action wu v•y inteD88, a vivid phantum. No ia-
v~n, therefore, couJd now remain. but to aeoertain
~IDAagioation or Fancy bad not aome influence upon ex-
~- pa.Jtidea of matter, aa well aa upon the mindl of
~ b, waa accordingly debated in the ecboola,-if·
~~~aation i:Guld not move extemal objectl ? Thoe; the
e~e- of awitch, which could cause hay-stacks to be.
~t, cattle to be killed, or corn blighted, might, with
~' ~n, be aaeigoed to the power of Fancy,' when
h~~ in its virulence by pernicious vapoun sent
~JD,-~ W*, the aeat of the aif'ections.. Aad, on tile
8llQ.4 ,priaqiple, might be explained the effect aflirmed to
ba"-·~~ when a pretty woman was in a vapourie11. :
m~, .
dlta ~of whose eyes was said to have ahiftll'ett·•'
a looking-glass. • .': , ' .
'l~~~~~iou entertained was, that the.effeeb
atWl~~~)~"t be perf~ by tbe,Soul bed. ··
aelf~_.Ji;,a_
th~,~...I!~ -~j~o.it1l, t.hm wt:l'll.•aome-~­
entertained by this phi!osop)l.er with .l'efPl'd to matter and
mind, which gave rise tO an opinion that Soule, immedi-
ately after death, passed into new and more attenuated
: - ; . ' 1IDEAif'imtfAitDE& •AB":Ma~lf.;JTJ,M
·.._ ·Bilftl.e...,..wu,fiow .t*t.ril!aeliibJabllj~
take pl.,. between the oe.r Wyaai &1te eW eeei-c•t'lle
· ....,er 'hi, tbat·tbere··were- certain ..-..8ftie· tDCWe-
eten· wlric:b NJw.d lleWteil lite Soul :aod tlte pallitlss
·fll the new body ; that the Soul, agreeably to the.t6er..
tiona wlrieb abe had fteeived·fkl~·lir.:, (Ollld ..e Mly 1
give a OOI'lft!pOIIcling similitUde to the matetrial fO;m fiL a
poat, aa at a miaer, but impel it to mch harm~~~~ic ..-...
menta aa would naturally lead to the place whent •
defunct's strongbox had been depcllitecl Hencethere.oa
JYhy that spot, above all otben, lhoold be haunted. Bill
another objection to this theory ,..... an awkward oee. It
was uked,-How the Soul eould 80 ioftueace the._....
nic movement& of matter u not ooly to poRitll8 henelf «
a new material form, but of the very night-gowa or ilten-
mg-dma that the body, during life, migltt have wora ~
The objection has never been fairly aoaw.OO. :
SECTION IX.
Tla N8/MJn4 e1t1ertoilted that Ifktu, 'fl1 tieir ...__..,.
NmJel, glltie rile to Spectroll~ . ··
WuEN the Epicureans wished to explain the origift 61
dreame, they conceived that mbtle imagei were eitlaer
given off from other substance., or were spontaneoQ,Jy
·formed ;-that tl1ese, after first penetra(mg tl1e Wy, ,
made corresponding impreasions on the iiftetmatecl~
pttscles of the material soul. This' Vi~14itrired 'WUin a
later notion enrertained ~arding taeJ Hd'He'·~~
.reepect,-th~t tber were matetiill 'fotms;·u~t~
the system from the exhalation of \Odie.,·t.b\~~1
nnW to th6 ftorellotue·Cil M.-orr •INatr.UimoWD
.•
,,,, e,,,Google "·"
MATEJU4JI, JJ))&A& P&ei)U(liMQ -'li~N~SMi~<~l
~~~?-the b'allaponatioo. baviof ile8ll ,afre.clled ·by
Hl•e&DS· of &he otpDS of Sease.
-··,.. Jn -~Qn w.i~ll a.ia -view,.it 11ae COJCQi.vtd, ~*: Ae
.taerves upoa wb.k.h llf.06atioQS Oepcllded m~ not ouly
.!118 aB'ectei bjr aternal agents, but that they might ~
impreesed by int~rnal cauaes, when the CO!)sequence would
be, \hat hallucinations would ari&i!- Rays of light, for
.U..tance, impre&&ing the optic nerve from without, wpuld
cause the sensation of yellow, while corrupt humours, as
those of jaundi~e. by impressing the nerves from within,
..~ould have the self-same effect. The next inference waa,
that, as an idea was really material, and might be
trea.ured up by the memory, it could, in some unknown
11l&Dner, find its way to the nerves, and impress them
after the manner of internal causes in6uencing th~ mind.
•• I shall suppose," says a learned metaphysician, " that
I have loet a parent whom I have loved-whom I have
aeen and spoken to an infinity of times. Having per-
ceived him often, I have consequently preserved the rna-
.· terial igure aad perception of him in the brain. For, it ia
very poeaible and reconcileable to appearances, that a rna-
. terial figure, like that of my deceased friend, may be
. preserved a long time in my brain, even after his death.
By some intimate, yet unknown, relation, therefore, which
the figure may '1ave to my body, it may touch the op-
, tic or ~stic nerves. In the very moment, then, that my
. ,.Del':Ve,t, ~ afr!lCted in the same manner that they for~er­
~·· .Jr were,\fheo I eaw or listened to my living friend, I
~·)•~,f!le:.~~ily i.oduced to believe that I realiJ ,
see
( '1~,~- ~i.m... if he were present:•• . . .
.,._,o.;.tana,.illllAMJUidollli, attributed to 11. Meyert ~or
the UDinnity or HaDe, A. D. 174
l". .. '1 ' • . .
· ···'··~
SECTJ.ON;.x.
Tie Opirliou IMt Spectral Impresilans fl1tre11le .R&idt
'· t?fa fahe JflligtRent offhe Intelkct. ·· · ,~:.
AN opinion was entertained, late in the 17th. CI!D~
that ghoats might arise from the reasoning faculty of the
~ul being unable to judge between realities ~ i~
If the notion regarding ideas had been the same as that
of Dr Brown, namely, that they were nothing more
than states of the mind, this last view would ;qot have
been very unexceptionable. But sti11, it was much blended
with erroneous notions regarding the intellectu,.J..j~
of the Soul, which I have no .inclination at p~ 1&p
combat. Suffice it to say, that by a modified ~cij~
of the intellectual power, called by the Da!Dfl .qf ~
subreptionis, it was conceived, that «every thi~ w~
a penon had not a clear and distinct sensa\~~d
not seem real; and every thing that resemb~·~~.~
tain mode, a certain idea or image, was ~11•
same thing as that idea." But we have a much lea m..
tinct notion of this subtle metaphysical princi~, ~-...­
the example which is given of it. When the.hti!Kl,....,...
pneumatologist, is "filled with many stories wbi4~
have related to us of the ghosts of monks, n.wn~. ~,we
find a resemblance between that which we ml'.f. ~ve
and such tales. A man is influenced by t~~-­
ment, and he takes what he has perceived ~... - ~
rition. Imagination then l1eats him; ,in~.JH14. • ·
ble images present themselves to his mind:-.-.:.~W­
lation of the blood ill deranged, and he is.a.~a
. •
u-
1
1
W .· · ;·. . . ~A·r.AU.'Or~~ i ~-­
flat 'hi ~· It ie impcllliWe te .-t a lulef
which, when it begiot to wander, gives to simple icleM
ftWb .a degree of fcJrce and cl~eu, that w~ take f:1!1p
lor real seneatieDt.· A man may thus persuade hiiDaelf at
baring aeen and heard things which have only existed iD
•i• own laead... · ·
(71il opi11ion is adverted to in M. M~~ treatise, to
liJ/Uch I 1lave before alludetl ; He page 431.)
SECTION XI.
Tile Detlils•ppoutl to be a CaNSe t!f Gtw.u.
A'L metaphysical, all phyaiorogical, aod ail chemkal
opiaioua, having been, by nrioua philosopben, cooaicler-
• as perfectly inadequate to the explanation of gholts,
it ,.. asked, why the existence of them should oot ariee
&om the cftreet agency of the devil himself?
Some pneumatologista maintained that the devil waa a
11lenc1er aod an inoomprehenaible apirit, who reiped io a
·tboueand abapea, and, couequently, mi«ht 888UDH!, if
BUCh were hie pleaaure, tbe form of an angel. They
Aa(ht that uaclean spirit& insinuating themselvea io the
-t.ody, and mingling in its htunourtl, sported there with
aa mueh glee as if they had been inhaling .the brightat
region of the stan;-that they go iD and out of the body
ll8 '*- go in and out of a hi¥e ;-and hence that melao-
dloly peraGns are m01t subject to diabolical temp~tiou.
To thia 4oetrine, taught by the learned clerks of the
16th and 17tll centvy, Hamlet evidently aHudes, wllen
,he .-Telthat it might have been " a damned gboa&"
whida hellad teen, or tile remit of aome diabolieal art
T
(.._:.;~H~'fl .9.P~~:«'IIAT~Jtllft.L;~-W
nm~?t\~.~ ~"~.at:.~ .fcriiiM·~~-..-
. ,~t,~n.;r-,.. :
....• •
; :· ·'-' ·. I •! . '· , :," · : '!J
J"f• } ' ,' ':t ,;•·:·:. 'j !-:-:··:rt -.J l~ •St~ i 1 ~~~ ~ '· ,· ,-) !·:. •7 _· 1.1'• '} 1
..:·•·"' "•··' ,; '··''l' d· ·~~~~h.41spirit$at,I.~ve~ . ....
<"';,:1\~ay _b~ a ~~vii; ,~-d _th~ devil hath ~"~1r, , ... , ." ,
: ,, n .,To_
~11Jl1.e a. ~leasing aha~e; y~, auf.~..~ ,. ,~
• · · OiJ._
t·ofmy weakneu, and my melancfu.Jy, .· , .
' '•· '(Ah&'ia ·verypcitentwithsuchsplrit8,). '·' '' ' ..
··• Aba8te'ttie·to aamil me.... . ,_,.,_ :;· ... ·'
Accordingly the regular plot of the dnuria t1lriJs
u.pon the.teat to which the veracity of the appliiifion is
.aubmitted. The trial ia satisfactory, and Hamletdet!Jaitea
.-
dtat be will "take the ghost's word for a tho1Jt1!&WI~,.
Such were the views which never failed at oiie•ti!Me
.1 to excite the auspicion of persons labouring nndei-'spec-
.Q'al ·imprellions; and it ia painful to co'ntempbttei11Jem
-. th•y ..-oee in the minds of many emilllent ihdtl'icJbliJB,
among whom was 1\fartin Luther, who was eVftMldJ!Bf_
. fected by some organic disease, which, baring ~ted
with the extraordinary intellectual exerti(lns' 'be 'ijJtaa-.
we-.t duriDg the progress of his wonderful 'Wrirk'Gr-~
form1 appean to have at intervals materlail'y'~
·tbe ;U!!Ual ·atate of his thought. This aston{~~.
wbq, ~rdiug to the doctrine of the· times,!~:~
je$pa~. his zealous labours as oppou4 to'we•~r
/tb~wit. was·particnlarly inclined to aetribti~ tW11f6-
~•.~·-· which be laboured to · the ~-,.bf
•vil!.,Wi-., One anecdote· to tbia·elht t;1kW iana«1\ed:
..~· ~.,_,,lw ~atad:of himself,~~-lfiM tHfir,
;-,~lMDg-AtawCiuitt huug elf'&Ia~ ~adiM!d
._
k :~:Mil, tbirit appean<hu.tldeily·~ llfli't
.•
--~
;,.,,,Coogle .. .1
wAil• ~«.:aPBCT:ilcr. <t'~o*s.~ib
•.....,_viiiMMij·&~d tb~reiti;tt~&f liiiiY\'~f/Mln
of ou.r Savi_our Christ, with his five wCMioda;~at-eMdlfy
lookiug upon him, 88 if it badJ»een Christ himielf cor~
porally. Now at the fint sight 'he~iiflf~Qi'ad been
some good '•evelatioo, yet presently recorlectec.~. himself,
and apprehe~~Fg some juggling of tbe (\evil,{~ Christ,
as Lq_ther.saya,·a1•peareth unto us. io .his word, 1lnd in I&
meaaer and .OOre humble form, even .88..he.waa bumbled
on the Cl'Oilll for ua,) therefore, said be, I apake to the
v.ision_
in.thia manner: • Away, thoU uafOuaded devil, I
know.~ ower Cbrist than he that W81 Cl'flaified, ··d
.who, ·in hia; word, is pictured ud .preached eo·ime,
W.heft~ tJae. image vanished, whida was the ·vt.l'y
devilliiJneeit\"
.. Tp.,devil .was also supposed to oecaaietaUy liltd\M:e
1U..iu .by eelf.tranaformation, 88 the followillg ~~
.-~,tc- .be~d in Captain Bell's Table-taHc ef·LUtlit!r,
....~.,lf ahewa: -' ·l)t
-~- 7!~rA.pnW!man had a fine young wife, whe ditict,·:waci
~~ -~ied. Not long after, the geatlemait and his
IU'f.~ ,tying tog_ether in one chamber, hia dead:wifeJin
_.4-.~~t-time, approached Hito the cbaJDtler., ad leltited
~-Qj!Oil :the reotleman's bed, lib &8 if the had betn
deli. to .peak with him. The aenut '(Miaritbe
"~$JYO Dr $lmle nights, ooe after aaotbel'), a.lrcdi:ftis
~ w~ller he knew, that every Dight:a womil&jito
.:W~~.t ~e into his bed? . The pot,..eu•twiid,
t~wr~ ~ ~ly (said h&). aiUl ..e;~:
~ fM'~;~~1be pdemao, 01118 ~tile
~aJNtl ~Udlflfl.,, ,~Jia . tlle11W~•.....ild
J"ftMMt.~(--ttD>.Irie~J . ......
1M '18KlanJL I'D!GAUR<.O.P~....
IIIIJlo -...-.~Wt.o-tbe ,.,...,..-.........a,..,.'114..-.
your wife: He aid, 'lly wife .il· dead--<~
She 1114, ' Tme, by reUOA of yoar swearing J~Dd .U.. I
a'ieil'i' '-t if you would take me again, and woallllllo
abstain frem swearing,. one particnlar oath, which Cold..
ilion•y you use, then would I be your ~fe again! ·
lfti
illid, · ' 1·am content to perform what you '~•
Whereupon bia dead wife remainM with him, ·rultd lik
Louse, laid with him, ate mel drank with him, alld hlid
ehitcken together. Now it fell out, that on a time tLe
geatleman had guests, and hla wife after supper was t6
Each out rJI his chest some banquettiug atuif; sbe ita,-..
iDg somewliM ~. her hiiB1MuHJ (fwge$tiog~f),
was moved thereby to swear his accustomed oa&lat-wlaere-
upon the wOID&D .Yuiahed that iilstaD*- ·Now~ aeeiog
&be retuned not again, they weDt up m., thitellamher
to aee what was become of her; There they fomad the
gown which ebe wore, half lying witllin the dll!it, aud
a..lf lridlolM; ; but :Me waa newer aeen afterward&.• 1 TAu
did the tktJil,' (aid Lutller) : ' lae can tJ:&Deforin ·himlelf'
ili:t&;&J.e:alaape of·JUDMl :Or l\UII8D;~ " . . .• ,_ ·. _
, r
, , ~ J.aul• eooceilled tl!at the ~tbs, or ~~~
Mf~-~tiah Hi~ds, were attr.ilmtaWe ~-~e -~
l'~~ dialegoueappeara in .his D. .~ .-- .,i
~· - p~ 'And ..that ineane these 1dnd -olspmm, whll!l' t»y~ra1fiJdn
in the sballow of a peraou newly dead, or to di8, *-'~-*"a
,\'Q!IJj.nWwrttiey11J1P18N upon Ut - ~?.die,!,.- ~
tiiililia. ia,_. ~· A.lnoitp~~~~"*"·,..
.........~....,.;diM·~~~
........~~~-,J~-.c:~f-l.slit!b-df
~~Mi~~~Wo
w-w~ _......,>eeJuulailtlllletf .....,~._.._.
oohba -~ ptodlsiea~ . ,> ..-· -~H . ~lt '' "IJJO'{
:. jJ~t I!Oine ·~~taph~sicians w~~ 'mit'con~~ ~ill!il~_,s£
J l ••. • • <1 •• ' ·. . .... , .~..• , d -J.•,o ~ t.~3JD
tainin~ that the phantasms of p_ro~e,.~is~rY..,r~.~~·~
~butaple ~o t~F ~evil ; itwas~ indeed, ~ very,ra'!ouriJr,;~t
tic?n,~~tertilioed by theologians, th~t the ghost ofSA~~
was ftO~ing but an illusion caueed by Satan to dist#
~e. m,~d of SauL Cowley, the poet, ·in li~ censure ~,
those who blindly use their reason in divine matters, him~
~If affo~s ~e best i11ustration of the faJse argumenb
~ai~~ which his Philippic was directed : · · '
'- · ·, ' 86matbna dMir flli:ICiel they 'bon ~ -,
:> •<: Ala fast, t.bi thq :may chelm of miM.
' . . .• ~ Ulap'rit& their UcldJ Mall dMdo,
...~ En~~·• wretched aorcere~~, abho'
She Saul tluough his di11g11ile did know,
'.Yet.;,henthe devil comu fiJI dilguil'11, she cries,
· · .. ~old i the gods ariSe.
'I •
:: ;
' ·, ...
This ricticalcme explanation of the text of Holy·WI4tj
~from tile notion, that magician11, througlt themtiant
df''the devil, Ofte11. induced spectral illosiollt' ~'\ ~
iUustrifio'n ohbe prevalence of this belief, ~·e1itelid­
el ~ .to lllodem days, is given in the Memoila of,~
Dab..ef.'llenliek. · . -
,,.,;,
· A i'leltch;anay:eacamped before s.u:.p..,.in. l-~7.
~'ihe•[eommaad of the Duke of Orleas~Uihe
~l"&'·~ hebla,· to retain the people ofArnt- 'illl
·laWil~''~' kmg'u polllible, and by tb&t''..._..:.to'._
tarll';iw;f·p~ Ofthe Doke ofOtleau, ~-
o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
• :ftD'"VJJrjllfDOOlNc.J $J<;O~J!m
~'fl..~tllat.tbe~fl~be~,qf:
a. ~--~Y.~ N,a~were· false; aod.~,_ .t~;
~ ..., wbicb. ~y•w ~ A(lthil;tg ~- ,but.J~]l~,f..
~r Pft.<!~~: by millie i .in c:ooaeque~~ 'of ~~~k..
tilt. . fY:~e,. proceaien on the ~ ao.cJ ~.
~ ~~ the pretended apparition&. .It.i~ aato~:oo,
i~~S. th~ the people were 10 credulous ~ to ~~)
~ia fil.ocy; from .which they were not u,od«:ejved tilL~
oext..day, •hen the Duke ofOrleans' light .h~,1J:ua~,
pUI'SQed a guard of hone of Puebla'a briak.ly tQ.~ Y~.J
ptea of the city, cut off aevetal of tbei£ ~~ ~
'f~n incleed the citizeDil were alarmed, aod. the -~
~ appeared, t& make their auiNnieaioa to hi, ~Pl.
Highoeu. I could not haYe believed what I h&Yt? ~
~ if I Jwl DOt been aasured of its tmth at ~ bf
\Jte,Fiocipal people of the city:.,. ·; . . "!
~~similar notion of the devil's powu to .raiae._
~
tiooa waa even a aupentition in the Highlands, and was
SUJIPOIM to account for801De of the phenome... t#..1~
~J,tt.-." A .
woman of Stornbay," says Martin., ~·-W
~ wbo saw vi»iooa, and oftea feU into.,.,~;·_.-.
~ ~ very ~uch .concerned about her. J;MU ~
~-~ f!!t ~y Ill~ to prevent hereee0.g.~~,;.
M ~,.ak-. ,eeol•.to pour 801De of _
the. W!lter.- ~ p.,.
baptism oo her maid's face, believing this a:g~ _..,..
~'~~.a.oy more sights of this kiod._,Afi~Uig~
;-, ilx··u r; · r
~1h\t~ ~'the"' MeoiOirel cie BerWie'fG"' :i~
Dr Ptrrlar,'l tnmJiation l1i it, Ybiclr is giveuin his extdleut paper
":Od>rftipalat?~,... ··s.·. ~..,.,..··~
Soelety of Manchester, Valt'~lt-~ '"~'"<'!. i~i\1 :.11" t
mM-~tS\11fAifttitAW~in~~ ltJf
tlv.ti~ li~ rillta'iri\Jtt!fiet11M'&ia-~dM.!j
~ol'l~''S!lt:.liar t~ bbfD'Tfu'~1uealae:Wi&r~."'
·ahdldtef~. beloreilWnn~~W:Ctint:NN~if .t
Wit prayer; she put her·baacNii"t~ ~ftnijki'ilpHafti
much W.ter·u alae could, amt'·ibti!1f! tt· ~~~ :~"
ftlci!;·at·whicll'f8trang8 action the riiiil~flt JiDc!'dte\ eOfj4.'
·gregaifun wereequally lurprieed. ' After prayer, theirA•
-lillter inquired of the woman the··ineanmg ·Of•
.aucli ·u
-.Gtbec:omiug arid. distracted action ; abe .tOld him;.:it
waa to prevent her maid's seeiog visions; and it fell oat
-
aeeordiDgfy, for from that time she never onee mc;te·aa•
a vi8iOn of any kind. This account was given me by Mr
Mtritoo, minister of the place, before several ~ his .,...
rilhibbera, who knew the truth of it. I submit the mat":
tl8r offact to·the censure of the learned ; bUt, for my oltli
-part, I think it ·to have been one of Satan's dnidel,"tCt
aia.b ~ulous people have an esteem for holy ,..._.,.
· Therewere again other views taken ofSatan's ioflneoee.
ita supposed that the devil W8ll a great natuial pbiloeo-
j;iaer,c;,·Summus opticUs et physicus" [eat,] iays HOI'•
man, ., propter diuturnam experientiam."t But no
ene ao well aaDr Bekker, in his Monde Enehut~. hM
•hewn what the devil can do by dint of his koowlfldp Of
t\e Ia._of nature.
··"I mean to speak of illusions,which Schottu, ~
with---Dell'ie and Melina. .declares to be of dane-IOda;
~~~··~ ~ ·.ma4e by the cbauge of the o~~
r. .hq .5sibu... ·
· t; ·.;,;~·•,....ipd&o'llitt»-we&....-wor.....-o:·'
t "De ])iUoU PoteetW• ~ !·• :;,:basM '1o l:'~r:10E
IH· .aai'llJ·.Jq :r.:". ·1.:.; t· ·:1H'HJBOJIH'I
~~~,J~~!}~D_vc_-u ~X -~~ e~\..
........... .., the chaap'Of,. . .taloJ....:tiM
Mppea by tM dtup ef tM erpna of th~ ...._
.clJt~···rilaM•411ie hii84J;'~wf 6ea.
)M,In."oM ...... ......_....,...._...;......
............1...~-·k•i ·-r~
.....,.• oltj* t. Jlfti'Dtell·. to·tbriyea;-ia<> ....,,.
~._a,....._..,.*hatit·piOd*'- ·alal.e .._'1;
..-
..C -r-
+t _.up flair, .ow of ....,.......~
--~·...itJIII·t.O the light; or;~, ..........i....
,... toy .w.g -.npoaed of diiillem ....._,,,.. tfrl
liD!etlur, aDd so lkilfully pepued, tkat w~ra&.-......
-~ Jlfaiy. threby llDOther f«m aod .figare. .•·:,I ;,~\ 0:..
-· -u lktiaul,. Tbe chaa!e or the air ia: aade :J.y ~
_,.;: whea * ieril binclers, leat th object_........
.._...... Mt ud bit 001! eye.; wbeo Je ..,.._ •
llllitbat 11 ll8&wixt the:objet* ad the eye itndck:. - -
.,.*t t\e o~t appean in another- igwle. .-....,
it:ii; whea he thickens the air to make tile .....·ap.
,.., paaa than it ie, aad to laincler it ~.
.J.Jeiigl·.-
iD ~place~ bat tile place he daip ; wlleaJe...
tie air ill tbe place tbruu'gh which the ·obja 'ilt*-\IM
*eye, that tM oiject, going through that puf:ot.a.
•, -.y alao be meved, and that its fipre --..bei:,_.
88JII4MI to tlae eye otherwise than it is; 8IIC\ ,_..Ji1tbela
~ mingleaand coofounds together sevenl~t~
ilt.._. tlaae iD eae eoly object then. nray·..,._••.If
........ ·' ;~ ni bon~ ed•
.·~~ ':'DiMl; ·'liM. cqua of tM ----~J.....
t1aefu. eidaer-Walllfened from their pJ•cw and altmd;
when ~:)t~-·~-~i~'~pted
and t¥cllened; or wbea lOCh a ebiaiog IJrilbm• ,._
PIIJL080PBICALLY BXPLAJliiBD. 661
~!~~ -~~. ~t ;beyare ~~;~·UaJ1\i.=.
..._ ~-··~··· · · ... •.d !\hr.m ~111 ~adl
·'"~~ ., _, ' ' ..... . , ... , • ' .• ~. 'hlj ·~,~· •
.1~(Jq1Jf
. <{.. . iWII tlle-J.,..,tlleU .of ·---,.....,........
·s.taa,.. CI:IDIWered ......., ...... .UmMitill.llllf
~ plleaemeaa, and u ia4ucias apeotnl·.,..._..
lly die applieatioD. ·of thoee lawa whiela..be • wello•
~· · Lleac» tH·CINDplimea' wlticla,Ho._..,....
.._.baTe paid to ltis peat taleau.aad ~ .or.t
•·dken *-al rea10111 preYeat me &om j9UW., ip tbil
_..u.m, I .UU payDO Cardaer tribot.e to 10 ~
a a ~. tlau by praeotiog to the potle ~
u faithful a portrait of him ae I have beea able to pro-
cure. It il from a groteeque eculptun of the 16da cen-
.tawy, whiCih .UU gncea the oakm paaaela el the aocieQ&
t* ef the Preltwichea. Baronets, of Lancuhire,............
fertanate t.miJy, whoee property fell a eacrifiee to their
~ . ,_....ce in the cause of the royaliata. A
.wiJig• ilaia·euriout deaiga waa very kindly uacle1'o
IMen ·tbr ·me by a friend,• whole accurate and elepDt
lbtdtea of the relica of put times haYe been tiequeatly
acbawledpl by the aatiquary. To "tll01e gmtJe
..-..,!" t~. that; ia the lauguage of 0111' grealilanl,
(#:will tlSII' the devil himeelfwith courteay," the abteh Oil
the r.no,n.g page ia reapectfully submitted. A more p)Q.
~it •devU. wae perhaps never depicted ; he not ooJ,
~aooj18·well vened in tbe abltroae metaphpia t1.
the period ia which he sat for bia portrait. but leellill;tcl
•"'~'act.rexpewadiorthem:·aac1, lliDoe he hu
·,!(ftilkih''6d"z't ~ 'f "l) "'
l.mqU1~'.Jcmei·I)£ LanC18ter (t9tJt Jleslmeat.) ' :·•:: ·
A~~;q 8~~at :f~~1d -::· · . '· : ;-
., ;:~y. tiJ i::Jr.
4U .ANCI£1!17 ICULPTUU OP TUB Di:l'IL.
... regarded by very sap authority aa the efticieat
ea111e of all the phenomena in wMclt we have been so ae-
riouaJj,~~ ~-.~n~ _w~~e1)\' be W--~rial
impropriety, in allowiag him to grace the coocluaioo of
tlaae laborioualuewa t• -
-. .
:r . . ... . ....
,,
....~,
.fl : .ti
·-.-:!i
tl .,'
1t>n\
~--:;·:
·- --'.~
\ ·n\i
rom
IJ!t _;o(j
! ~ { .~
5.:•.
•.:..: ~
!!.'Ill
_...._..&.-.......~ -·~~.:n ''t ·.-·os.:
Cap<ala J-IS<b a.;-~
._ ~\ ~ . ~ ' .:
.· !"; ·. 11! ~. : : !"!~
.., ., ::c."H a'91isl4 •
.. , U:»I'W \ \\ t
..;-; :·: dvf. .:.-. ~~;.,\ 'I!"'
,, ',, ·_,.,.• ~!1, loll ,-ro ,1\i~-.o..:
"'"-'t PC.Ii ,n~ ,IUJII 9rl1
>.•;:: NOTES TO·TII:F}..APP.ENDJXl.i1'-''~
NOTJ: 1.-P~· sgo.
E:elractfrom Farmer on the Wor1lzip o/Human SpiriU
in tke ancient Heat/zen Nation~.
" ALL religious worship among the Gentiles, and in-
deed among all other people, baa ever been adapted to
the opinion they formed of ita object. Th011e Gentiles
who, by the sole·use of their rational faculties, formed
just conceptions of the spirituality and purity of the Di-
vine Being, thought that he was best honoured bya pt~re
fllind. Such of them u regarded the luminaries of
heaven, BB beneficent and divine intelli~nces that go.
verned the world; worshipped them w1th lz!Jf"M •""
prailu,• in testimony of tLeir gratitude ; or by leU~
tlze lzarul., and lxmnng the lzeadt to them, in acknowlecJi-
ment of -their sovereign dominion. This seems to have
been the only homage they received from mankind in
the moat early ages of the world. At least, DO other ill
taken notice of in the book of Job, or in the writings of
Moses. When dead men were deified, it became neces-
sary to frame a worship adapted to pleaae and gratify hu-
man ghosts, or rather such spirits as they were conceived
to be. And I will ltere attempt to shew, that the esta..
"bliabed worship of the Heathens was built upon these
cooceptioos, and that this circumstance points out the
• .Mede'a Worb, p. 666. .
t 1/I beheld tk m•, or the moon,-611d my mouth hath klued
filii 1llllld. Job xxxi. 26, 27. The Israelites ue forbidden to
_.~hlp, or, u the original word imports, to befld or !low ~ to,
the eun, moon, IIDd 1tan. Deut. iv. 19.
,,,. e' ,,Google
<Met FAJllMV~."1'd Wo.tiik'~OST8
.........~-tneWiuitne4h&te~eMI:of~-
·~l ~ (· fi f. ;q ··: ·• _. _- •· . , ·, · ···.: ;~ ' ;,;-n lf~ :~ i !
1!!"2~~~ ...~t-·n tbia ;rrsomen~, we m.id"~ate
.~[itf til., "iiftJifJ 'titttfitib" " theaCIMbt-'llelftlati.·
~l'* efltt.JtRitide'With ;the 'SIIftte; iMs"t•y:Jlad,:llii'MI
Giollittl'AWM·~ •laM·were their r.etioJl8·:of ha-
mau ghosts, and of their futur:e nate ot ~iatMMle. 0..
idfe~ncc of tWr wriipto ·t~eae 1JOtioae the
*te-oftlie atgUIDtlfit depends. · ·, · . ·
: tl'<,tf!PI·~ die&inction hetwea t.lle .-1 ud J,ody of
~~ 'Mid the permaneot"e of the former alter the dislo-
'hatioo of the latter, could ooi but be admittecl- by aU-tile
•Mi<illthat wonibippfd the dead. Happy-
would b ·ha~
,-. had they gone oo farther, excepi to Ulert a f111lale
lltll'te·otretribution. But they ga.e aa UDbouDded-«J!JP8
10 t.lleit imaginatiooe. They not o!lly ucri~ . to.&eJao
·"* lpiri~ .. indeed they justlv milbt, all their r-
lhllll&al aft'ectiooe,• but aU the aensatioDe,t ~•
.-.d ·-paasiODI of their bodily state; such as lnulger abCI
abint,t and the propensitiee founded upon the di.8'erellc:e
~ -eefltll.§ Ghoete were thought to be adclideil tO the
--• or the parental afFection we have an IIIIUUJe esamp~i!·m t'-
ghoet or Anebisea. Virg• .lEn. VI. 186. PMOIJ f16. .. luiaed
glloeta beN to their enemia, both when lmDg and liter their
cleatha, are produced by Potter, B. 4. c:. 8. p. 961. l Uaall adi
the following punge tiom Oriel, in Inlem, v, 139: ·
- - - - - Nee mon mihi .fiaiet iraa, ·
&eva aed in manes manibua anna dabit:
Tunc quoque cum fuero vacuu dilapeua in - ,
Exanimia manes oderit umbra tuot.
See also Homce, Carm. V. 6. Virg, ..En. IV. 384, and the ft1J c:.t..
racter;istic description or the ghoet -of Ajax, Homer,•o.t,& U.
tft, and Ofthe other ghosts in the Mille book. · ·, - -: :_· :
t -Hence that prayer, takeo notiee-ol abcm, thMo-tM'- tlltb
~htlit light or heavy on the dead. ' · ..,..
!·· ~ Tbia appean ftom their beiDg povlded, 11 it·WiD ...:IIIMI!na
GWy were, with the meant orgratifyfng tltete appat~te&; :t ··.:o·..· ·
.§ Hercules, though. he feaaced with m. ~c~ ,,_
·-~eil .co li.W. HG~Mt, II. Xl. 602. Some ban thoug)lt
tbat ghoete coulcliAIUile a human bocJ1; l : ":·I·, ·,{) .-.o8. '•
i
j
, __
....,.......,aod..~.....-..)·~fl)lh.....
lipt while men.• Aad, though they could ·not~·
JIM .MqiJtdt.liJae. ~o(...QIIb,..-t.,,...... 4l(;,.rt.rpr
.eile4 ,~ .tber.had tJae _. lw..ea-.llftd.,...._
iJWow.,an. -Citigiltal JMN" of abet...._ U.... My;~
,.,411nded wlaeoever. t8e bQdy wu,UMI m.ioad·-~
•.pft!ssienef &lteil'l weuuda.j. · . '. • . .. ...... ,, ''"'''
··,· Tw. ideaohoeo's 1'uttue••• «tf e&ineaae.,..._.
upon the model of our )lftii8Dt eoaditio-. 1'hey, lel8
;mo~y in tbit world upoo billa payable ilt ·daet next.If
~ween lloda werlds tllere waa thousht to be an .,..
·.-tercoune, ~ l(tirita beetowiBA' faYovs ·uplb
their surriYort, a~ad rece1ving from them gifte aM ,...
·eeata. Theae gift& were aometimea auppoeed to be ooa-
Jqed intiO.the other worltl io their own natural fora:
.fOr. they put into the mouth of a, dead man a piece ot
aoney1 to pay Charon for hia pueap oYer Styx ; ua a
ake; of which honey was the principal iagredieat, to
·J"Itclfy the growling Cerberus.11' Thoee thinp, whoee
·aatural outward form was destroyed, did not altogether
peri&b, but passed into the other world. The soula of
brutes eurvh·ed the dissolution of their bodies; and even
... • p.., ia s-iJleia esercent membra palaetria, &c.
. , Vilg. &a. VI. 642•
.-----Qua gratia eurrbl
Annorumque £uit rivia, que cura nitentla
Paacere equoe, elldem aequitur telhue IIIJIOIIOI.
Id.ib. v. 6~
Multo map reetmea qllOIIdam urbium reeepti ia CGelam curam ·
regendonun bomiaum DOD reliDquunt. Macrobiua. ia 8011111. Scip.
l. i. .. 9.
· 't- B~, o.lfll. XI. 206.
~ Et nuncmapa mei sub t.cru ibit imllgo. VbJ.lEa. IV. CIW.
,;-,i U..,l()d,_. XL ~. ViJB. &n. VL <W6.
11 This is related o£ the Celts or Gau1a. P--. mn~ 4p111
W.:tl}l.. lbfenla zecWereotar, clue .Utoe. Pythlto'ru approved
the cuatoJJU"'-·~ alltboc acWa, DieeNm 1tul&ea, 1lili W. b.-.
...ci ..-....., qlltli pllliatua P71hagotae c:reclidU.'
,., , ,lA•'' .;... ' "' ... Valcriua Muillt1ll, lila. I. .... J,lO.
~ Boe. Or• .Antiq. p. 410.· '. . ........, •';
,
• Diodorus Sicalua, I. v. p. 352, Jelatell tbia circumllall~ fJl tile
Gauls.
t See·below, under aacrificea. • ... ~
· .~ Solon (according to Plutarch, vit. Solon, p. 90. C.) ~. ~
law to prevent tlw burying with the dead more than three gatm,esi~
- This law was afterwards adopted by the Romans, and inserted In
the '12 tables. Sumtum minutio; tria, si volet, riclnia adhi''*O~
The clothes of the dead were sometimes thrown upon ·the· f\menl
pile. Boa. p. 422. Kennett, Rom, Antiq. p. 357. ·· ·
· § The arms of soldiers were thrown upon their p~· · ,-.
Boll, c:h. ~-......-.-
11 Thia is still a custom in some parts of the East, ud it. il ,oi..
great antiquity. Evadne (by Ovid called Iphias) threw blm.lelt
upou the funeral pile of Capaneua, uttering this prayer : ~
me, CapafiCU. ~vid. AD. Am, 1. 3. v. 21. Statiua, ';fhebaid. L
12. v. 801. Propertius, I. 15, 21.
· ~ Servi et clientes, quos ab iia dilectoa esae conatabat, jlilda
ftineribua confectia, una cremabantur. CEIIII', B. G. 1. 1'1. C. 18.
It-was the same both in Mexico and Peru: on the death" Itt tbe
llllllpeMn and other eminent perilonil, many of tiMI!l'llttaSdaDII
ftS pllt.a .death, that they mipt accompany tlaem.-.llle...
world, and support their dignity. See Robslaell'aBiiUIINIIIh
~-v.-3.p,-lUl,259, -- - ----- ·
::1: Cae~~ar, llbi~ At .the fWleral o£~~t- -..
and nine favourite cUJp ,-ere tbnlwa .. -.• o,lf_JIIk.,)llomer, 11.
~ v. 171~ . " . .
1111 Moris ~~Jt am;hiarebua.~~,.~­
Jexerant viri. Serviua on ..En. X. 827• .;8eo~J.lf,::J8.
t .•: · '·. :~ '-: ot ~ ._"'!·~ t'::t;.<Tt~ '"i "1.·.0::: ;..-
?.'r20fjp mm~lf&1'f61MKB~"i /#
'"'~hlgly ••fiinllloe'~ .ra:M,"ll
~. in elvsmm.•· OJ,meus~ wfterfindlilllQt.,!Jia ·
abOae,.a~ in his~~~ tc)be, strMnt:8', ~~
amlthe wamon were funtllhed 1ffllttbeitl'h . • me.
and chariots, which Virgil calls inanes, tinpty, airJ/; aritl'
unsubstantial, being such altades aild phantomA bf';'tfleif
former chariots as the ghosts themseftea were or ·m~.t.
In a: word, whatever was bumt or interred with .'tlie'deltd,.
dieir ghosts were thought to receive arid use. It is obseri~
allPe~ that, as the gho8ts appeared with the wounds Iii~
in tbem before their separation from the body, so tlie
atn1s that had been stained with blood before they were
Mrnt appeared bloody afterwards ;t and, in like man-
ner, the money-bills and letters that bad been consumed
itt the .flames, were certainly thought to retain the im-
pression of what bad been written in them. ·
" Suc.b notions of separate spirits can indeed for the mO&t
P!l~t be ·considered only as the childish conceptions of un-
tutored minds, in the infancy of the world, or in 3JC8 or
gross ignorance. Nevertheless, being consecrated to the
pqr~ of Superstition, and in length of time becomiDi
venerable by their antiquity, they maintained their credit
in more enlightened ages amongst the multitude,, and,
tk~ policy, were patronized even by those who dis-
Cerned their absurdity.
· .., This general view of the notions which tbe Heathen•
enteitained of human spirits, may prepare us to receive
the farther account that will be given of them, and there-
~1 ,of the ground of that particular kind of worship tbat
'V¥ paid them. And, if the same worship was paid .to
th' god~. as to human spirits, and for the same .r~
~:will 1\ppear highly probable, tha~ both were of.the
8ILIDe "Da4ure originally, though there waa a ditferea,ee of
I'4Dil bet.w«m: them.''§ . · . · 'w
tM IPBCI.IIBMS OP JZWISB GHOSTS.
(ltoi- .<:'!. :.·:·>:·:::. :. ~ ·_: ·- . . . . \:1'1?
crlo; w.i; ..r•···· ~B-~PL391; · -,,-.-, r • 1 ;"; bi-:ow
sriJ I·· ,_,· ... ··. .·.· :• .·~ .: ·· · , . ·' -.;: :,... fxf:
,du:.. -~8 ,• ..,.....,.........~.......:1••, '!!lib}
.£1(, ~~··. :t_ ... -. ~ • • ~ • • ,· ·, ! :·.;,··.;.:J!fd
..;;; , .F~T ~JJO!IIJ·JT~· , . · - '· ,-;.; -tit
,;1i'.hap~ned that t'be wicked Turnuslt.ufus Ji!.et_~i
Akk1ya on a SabbatL-day; and he asked''the Rabb( ~
the d1ff'erence was between that day and another~ ·11i~
did Rabbi Akkiva'ask him, 'What difference then!~
between one man and another?' 'What is the d~
says the Ra.hbin, , between thee and another man4 -~AA
thOu art by thy Lord advanced to the dignity tho•{~'
s
sessest, and that others are not 80 much esteemed .
Turnus Rufus replied, • It was because his Lon!'"* ·
have it so.' Rabbi Akkiva replied,-' I also Iii»:& •·
the Sabbath, because my lord will have it so_: &!! ~t_ 1
the will of thy lord that thou shouldst be honoutedi ~f
ii is the wi11 of the King of kings that we ahou]d Jis;~
~ .
tlie Sabbath.' • Why then,' demanded Turnus ~
''doth this God of yoW'B do anr. work on the Sab'hat' ,'
' What work doth he do?' sa1d the Rabbin~ ·;t,atr$1"
ltwus replied, ' The very work h.e doth on ot,h~~;:.·
•
He maketh the wind to blow and the rain to ~ · ·
clouds to ascend, the sun and moon to rise, and·~ ~
to ripen.' Whereupon Rabbi Akkiva said to.. _~·
;
know well that tliou art skilled in the Ia~ ~ · '
IJebrews. When two live together in the sam~ . . )
then d~th the one give ~o ihe other the mut~.~ ~
(or an mstrument, by wh1ch they agree, acco~'tO ~:
law, concerning the office ef carrying to and~~~- ,0
an~~~~er Of} the Sabbath,) and they are ~low~.,¥0.~
ctrtam thmgs from one place to another. · But b~ •
Ji\·eth alone in a court, though the court_w~ '/~.r
as· Antioch, carrietb in that court cer\3,in ~tkt ··:18'
~nJ because there is no other to take ~li,;~·,.,.·'="'~~
hun. Now, heave
_n is the throne of the Jlo~t ·
q,o4·and ~e earth is his f®.t-atool, 1 .JM._
•Jill·....-~~"
~is.~ of•is:Jlory: Aod t1Jere ia.~,"""
-·,<-a.~.&'C..·
,;ll.t~' ·.: ·~ ')"..!: '· ,; ' . : _'.:..' .r.•J')ill
,,,. e' ,,Google
_. _ _:, ~: . .· : : ~: , ~;-:3J£I:>na ~
8PBCUDN8 o-. .JEWISB GIIOit'& W
worbl for to. contend· <JP.itJi,l JN.IIII •~ver, thole wllo
did eat themanna ia the wilderne. were witnfJIIIell oftbe
(distinetKildt -~ .oo.l to· annex to the) :Sabbath,
beeawe the maDDa fell every day on. the week bW Oil
&he Sabbath. Bu~· ihis unot air:·Por the river SabbU-
jon clearly shew11-tbis distinction, since it floweth during
the six days, but floweth not on the Sabbath.' T&en,
replied Turnus Rufus, ' Speak no more of the manna;
for no such thing as its falling hath happened in our
days. And for the lliver Sabbatjon, I do not believe it.'
Then said Rabbi Akkiva to him, ' Go to the southsayers
and diviners, and they will convince thee: For on eve:~
day of the week but the Sabbath they can, each in his
way, make .their divinations hit well enough ; but Oil
the Sabbath they labour in vain. Get thee to thy fa-
ther's grave for information ; for thou ahaJt on every
day but the Sabbath perceive a smoke to arise from it;
but on the Sabbath thou shalt perceive no such matter.
If the dead, then, can discern and distinguish the Sab.
bath, how comes it to paaa that the living-are ignorant
{)fand neglect it?'
«Upon this, Turnus Rufua went and beheld his father's
grave, but could perceive no smoke to ~,UCeDd from it.
And he aaid to Rabbi Akkiva, ' Perhaps his punishment
~·at an -end.' The Rabbi anawered, 'Thou aba!t see
the smoke to-morrow.' And when Tumus Rufus aaw,
on'the first day of the week, the smoke ascend from the
grave, be caused his father to be raised out of his gravll
by necromancy; and he said to him, 'Thou didst llot
in thy life-time keep the Sabbath, but now thou att
among the dead thou observest it. How long is it since
thou turnedst Jew?" Then answered hia father, ' My
son, every one among you that keepeth not the Sabbath
in a becoming manner, shall, when he cometh among \)B,
observe it against his will.' Then asked Turnus Rti~s,
• What is it ye do on the working days?' And..his ~
tber ans\llferCd, ' We are punished on every working:
day; but on the Sabbath we have rest. ·OP.-"J~e eve
of the Sabbath a voice is heard from" 11ell'te~;-'Biiyi'df.
' Let the wicked out, that they may have rest: . And
ta 8P..._.,l0f.R1\TMI~'1 '-.
t1e1e ._.,ailg\!1, inn·ia·"*t o'f111'1·~ wR.iJ*II'-'&*sl
•t!1~Dr·' 1Afld· at w entt ,or tbe ~~~ w-.~~
~, . « ~the•Jf!W:Wl. ·fillnb ..~ prat*s, ·ta -.en4ea;:.clle'
..m•-...aUa'aloud, aavtr.g, • Ye Wiclied; get'~~·
q.dlell;,fa.: the l....etlta~ h•9<e eilW their tOnil «
. . .
,.......... 'I i
·.y .>' . .,,
. SI!COND GRoiT:.SofORT·
' .
, ." It·happened, that as Rabbi Akki..a, at' a. ~
pi,Me, ,:w;aa going to a funeral, be met .a man,- .who b.ii a
~~ of·wood upon bia hack, with which be ·nut .wla.
t.be,tpeed of a bone. Rabbi Akkiva stopt·him, aDd lidil
w hila, 'My 800, bow cometh it to JIB' t.lla$thoa.·u.i'
~t lUCia heavy labour? if thou art a sbwe,:.- diJ'1
JQ~Mtef. yokes thee to thia burdeo, I will ~- . ,
~. aad deJiver thee from hi-. H It: be May•I*'
:verty that is the cause, I will enrich thee.' The - .
INJIWertd, , My lord, auft'er me to go on; fOr I .all: Dot
&Wp.' Then did Rabbi Akkiva ulr: him, ' Aft,tm.·ta:
devil or a human being?' And be ,.. &Mwered, •',1.
~. and am DOW obliged to fetch wood for Alel>.to die~
Are' (of bell, we suppose.) ' What,' said tlte-:~
• ,.._. thy buaioe~~ in 'by life-time?' And he••swuw
ed, ' I waa an exciseman. I favowed the rieb, .aJM1 ~·
~ the poor. But that ia Dot all : on ·the'day, .,;
afA)D~nt I Jay with a virgin, who was betrot.Wato,aa.• ·
T- said Rabbi Akkiva, ' My eon, hast · thOu ti\w!
~from thOM that are set over thee in·hell~- ~ ·
t~ be ao.y means by which thon mayeat a ·tlelivtnd!
from thence?' And he was answered, ' De&aiD .me.·80
l9Ker, Jeet my atay provoke my punislten te ...;. ; for
t~ ia.no help fur me. Nor.baN I hearchLaay,~·
tbJt. ~~~' ~re my Memptioo, ~,...,.~~d:
'1;-IJey .have said, if tbou hast a eon, wh~CubM ........
tlte ~tieD, aod there.eay. c: BJe.ad;a-~· lil....­
ecl Lord, (•ords.a' thll .head.. of.:a catta~ar.n.W.~):
tbo~-~O.~dest be delive~ from. tb~-~~~~~ ,'}~~t.
·-~·-~~-..~...,....iiaJ~WM-•
8P~~'IB1Y1811iG'..-a&<rr: -
Lllate aot.... lad.l, wJiea·l chd. I· Wt:.., 'lrilf
'WMIJ dilld; IN&-I koow I\Ot.wJ.e._. Jla&.Ide &...0 «'•-.J
dacrgh.ttr" And.if alae here a·.On:(ud he~ MillJiil~f~
~. Jt>uQ«aowiog for .me, whetbee.Jte,he ...~Nt*Cinlll·
die~: .T~n clMl.Rabbi 4klrin ask lli111> hi••._,
and hie wife's name, and the name of the city wber.e(-
dwelt. He replied, ' My name is Akkiva, and my
wife's name Suamira, aad the city wbere I dwelt is call-
ed Alduca.' Then did Rabbi Akkiva lament for him.
,, ~-·.ADcbhll RaiJbi ·went from city to city tiU he ·came
u. the-city Alduca; aod there be asked, Where the m.a
8llid wh••l'laia houae waa? And the people made BIIIWet'i'
'1Jiay his a...e. 1»8 bruited in hell.' And be ubd after
U.rmao?e wU.. Md was anawered, ' Let her Dame be
...-n
•IU· of tbe world.' Then he ioquind alter the
Dfib'uon, and waa anawered, the 100 wu not circum-
m.p, .81Dd .tJ.t hia J*en&l had DO regard to that 4»o
w.llllt.' . . .<
.M~ Thee took Rabbi Akkiva the lad, and made him lit
befo.reJti..,·in order to in1truct him in the law. But h&
obuld.DGt :>lie, inatruoted, until, for hie eake, RabiM. Ak··
IUa dach.faated .forty days, wheo a voice came from
~- uyiag,.' Faatest thou tho• for his aake?' And-
be......... • Yea.' And then the lad read the ai,U..
...._.,till ·&Jjbi Akkiva had brought him to hia bouse,·aad
~ Jaim. the prayer at meat, and the ahema, (i.e. the
w.Oa-.io.J>eut, vi. •·.• Hear, 0 Israel,') and the Prayer
&aek. T1leo aid he (Rabbi Akkiva} place him proper...
IJ.!J •awhb.eJad pray.ecl, and aaid, ' .Bleaaed be the bl...t'
LanHor ·ewtr.' · A.tMl in the eame hour· hie faahet was
f.-cl&oa .belL
t;;(f,~,theJ fa&Mr ~ in a dream to the Rabhi
A.kkia,.,.aad.aaid .to him, • May the rat of Paradise be
QJ~ij_-lllll:alJ4e. tbou halt reacued OM from. die pu:t·
-~ tldlell/i. !bea bepn the llabbi Akllin.'t.Oi
118fi116'ilf~O..LQrd, eadureth for. ever, lAid t!tf
••e ';ljl&lJN4throaglw.lt a11 ~..~..J.. _; .··.·.
.t.1.:li ' •Jnsmii.UtUJl1 ..,.:; ,... .. ..,.....,.. ·;I .. _
.,.
•
--
<qf r ,
··i• ,. NoTE 4..--P. 401.
T.IIB.J)JlVWS Dll!f .JW.Ol&l..LW:.I:. . ..
~. .~.chan.• aild .bid IMitu..tdt~a ·
"'*·'~.- .he lbeuld.direet·ma; :and-~
. rthe'pltl.
JibeW.my; boy., Tile II~JIIiari~·~"tb ·.
~#eJ,Deudom·iny,oca&ioaa~ ealledtby •theOI·~ -~
~ oi: demoas,: .who. wen tJu; lwadfll'l ·bf•·tiJe'r~
JMiW'B, .apj} queltioDed them by tAe.·poW@l''Oflltfi!fJ~
M1 uoen~ated GQti. who, Jives .for- ever, itt the ··~
.~, .as .Jikewiae in Latin and Gt* :'iwtseliueH,
M-at.,~~~<amphi.theake Willi almeet-in animtalfttfiltett'\llli{h
.._a:lJWre.numerous than at the fermer ·eoojtH'at~.
i!V~io, Romoli wu bUBied in making·a tre w(tft the
•*Mof Agnoliao, and. burning a great quantity dr
~~·~rfwaes. I, bf the direction of the necr(RQ&ni.
SJL...pin, de&ired. to be m the company of my Angelica;
.lilaOctfOI'm~r ~hereupen turning to me, 8Bid,-• Know;
••Jht.J'i~,declared, that. in the space of a month· you
.IMJJ1... JP-·lter company. · ,
di~~.p:Uben requeeted me to stand reeoJuteJy by him~
~:"'e legions were now above a thousand ntOre'm
J~MJh4w· than be bad deeigned, and beeide~, these were
~ !~ 1iangerous; eo that, after they had aftswe!W
Jllfdl~i.t bebo,-ed him to be civil to them, aud di&;.
diPfJ t__, qu~etJy. At the same time, the boy under
~j)~lo was in a terrible fright, saying, that there
. .tiA.~at.place a million of fierce men, who- threateu~
~f \~; and that, moreover, four armed gialita'Gf
an.enormous stature were endeavouring to break (Itt&
Pill:.~cle. · During this time, whilst the necromanter,
lJitJP~ 'i;fi~ fear, encleavoured by· mild ·and!~f!l'lt1e
JPA~ .~i .~ia them in the best way be oo'UM;
.Jf~jp ~li•.who quivered like ao upeo leld', .wei(
QM111oi.l•Jw. perfumes. Though I was 811 much terrifil!d
~*~~1~"'-· ·~did my utf!JOit to co~·~he- terttW'l
~stutbei·l- grealy contnbuted to mspn•othlo;·iJft!116
:>d' nidJiw w i,, "·' . .> • •·.. ;,u£
. : ! ...
. . .Til& DDILi 9BBN BY CELLINI.
wlthl'lllliutioa ; llat the tmtla is-!. ~ pre Wlyaelfover W
a de.a mua, eeaiDr tbe horrid fijgbt the n~
.. ill. The boy p1ace1i his bead between Iris Jmee., ~
IIIIIWr-• In this poRUie will I die ; for we tha1l all mf!11j
,..-: I told him that all theae deaM!na were uaclit
.., and what he eaw was 11100ke and shadow ;• • w.l
111m bold up hia bead aod take eo~ No IIOOIIel' iii
lie look u.p, but he cried out,-• The wltole amph~
ia burning, and the fire is just falling tlpoll us ;• so eoveit-
ias' hia eyea with his bauds, be agaia exclaimed, that cleo
ltnJctiOD ...... meritable, and be deaired W Bee DO mere_
The necromancer entrea~ me to have a pMl heart, ilal
take care to burn proper perfumes; upeo wllich I tara!o
ed to Romoli, and bid him hum all die meet ~
perfume~ he had. At the same time, I caat my eJ"'
upon A«oolioo Gaddi, wbo was terrified to auch a ·_.
gree, that be could acarce distinguiab objects, and .-.
ed to be half-dead. Seeing him in this conditieo, l •id.
-• Aguolioo, upon theae occasions a man sboultl ..t
yield w fear, but ahou.ld stir about and give hie ......_
aace; 10 come directly and put on &OIBe more of "-
perfumes.: Poor Aguolino, upon attempting to -••
waa ao violently terrified, that the effects ofhis fear ~
pew~ aU tb~. ~me& we were burning. T~e tey
-llellriDg.a crepttatton, ventured once more to I'IUifl W.
Jleed, when, seeing me laugh, he began to take CIMift&'llo
ad -.id,-• That the devils were fyieA- away witli a
ven~ee.·
•• In this condition we stayed till the hell nag fer
moraing prayer. The boy again told us, that there ...
mained but few devils, and these were at a great ~
.tance. Wlleo the mag;cian had performed the ftllt ~
bis ceremonies, he stripped off bia gown, aad took up a
wallet full of boeks w'lrieb he had bnugbt with lillt.
WESLEY'S BELIEF IN APPARITIONS. 457
We all went out of the·cirtle together, "keeping as olol8
\<) each other as we ,possibly could, especially the boy,
who had placed himself in the middle, holding the ne-
cromancer by the coat, and me by the cloak. As we
were going to our houses, in the quarter of Banchi, the.
boy told us that two of the demons whom we had seen
at the amphitheatre, went on before us leaping and skip-
ping, aometimes running upon the roofs of the houses;
and sometimes upon the ground. The priest cleclared,
that though be had often entered magic circles, nothing
80 extraordinary had ever happened to him. As we
went along, he would fain persuade me to assist with him
at consecrating a book, from which, he said, we sbould
derive immense riches : we should then ask the demons
to discover to us the various' treasures with which the
earth abounds, which would raise us to opulence and
power; but that those love-affairs were mere follies,
from whence no good could be expected. I answered,
• That I would.readily have acce~ted his proposal i! I
understood Latm :' he redoubled hts persuastons, assunng
·me, that the knowledge of the Latin language was by no
means material. He added, that be could have La-
·un scholat'B enough, if he had thought it worth \vbile to
look out for them ; but that be could never have met
with a partner of resolution and intrepidity equal .to
mine, and that I should by all means follow his advice.
Whilst we were engaged in this conversation, we arrived
at our respective homes, and all that night dreamt of no-
thing but devils."
NoTE 5.-P. 401.
« The pumeruus Ghost-stories fabricated in the 18th
Centuf'!/, were to supply the Demandofthose Individuals
tvho wcshed to cun(ute with them the i'lfidel OpiniOns
·· qfthe Free Thinkers."
, , · " ~t i~ true likewise,:· says Mr Wesley, " that the
Engbsh m general, and mdeed most of the men in Eu- ·
rope, have given up all accounts of witches and appari.-
u
., ,N'ftm~....4LllV8fN'. ·
~rAa,._.lJW.Jrile(,,ftbla• ·..}:..,to~·~ ,..,.
,WMPM·· .W· ~punuaity ef.~:~l)'L-­
-1~ a,.a..,.thit YiOlellt c.tapliment; wftic\: • ~
,., blli•t~tllelti"'We'JIB1 'tG '~ 'llt"ho'flo ~-~,~
I owe theoe a..ucb..
lf.I'VIIIe. ltQ.ekDG!W'Ied,e;, .,_..
.~........_ of .Pe.&eery wltich baa befn ~ IIUUl
Mth-sueh iJMiace apnM dtrouPollt the oatliH,·in 4-
_.. oppeeitioa. aot only to. tiM! Bible; liUt te the MrlfJap
-Athbe '"-t·aGd bat ol men in all ages u« ~
They. well .know, {whetlMw Chriaaians kllO'tr it or nel)
·that·Ue giving up witchcraft is, in eft'ect, ping UP. the
:Bible. And they kaow, on the other haml, t;hat if IMt
eae flcouat of the iaterceurse of mea with eeparate spi-
riw be admitted, their ~laole caatle iD the air(~
atheism, materialism,) falls to the grouod. I Jmow -»O
reaoo, thererore, why we should suffer evea thil we.poo
to be wl"t1Bted out of our hands. Indeed there IU"e·IUl-
merous arguments besides, which abuadantlvooofote their
nin imaginations. But we need not be Looted·eat of
oae,-ueither reuon nor religion require U.is...
.I bve no other view in quoting the foregoing ~
from Mr Wesley's works, than to shew tile spirit -.ida
..·which he, and many other truly pioUB iodmduale, were
imprei~Cld, when they wished to revive tbe beQtf·ia...,_
. 11aritioD1, which was evideatly bcJillning tc.leee grouacl.
The aaxiety they manifested to bsten to all stone. ol a
aupernatural cast, soon gave rise to a host of-~
mance-writers, who got up " well.authentiaa~·
stories as fast as the anti-freethinkers were Mileto1\ifallow
them. But, let us be thankful that we live in an age,
when the truths whieh are cootaiaed in the Holf-Scillp-
tu.rea_ need no additional confirmation from appantiooa.
Non 6.-P. 412.
Tke Nutima ifSouls m~isiting tlte Glol>e qfter DetttA itu
been a popular Ct·eed b!J modern no lu1 tltara b!J ancintt
Phi/oiOphers.
To a volume of Dr Archibald Pitcaim•a Larin peeiDII,
which I have lately seen, ue prefixed eennl M. S: 8lleC>
- ..~..·- ..• J_
(;oogl<j ..J
r\tetiM relative to his family, whielt are &om· ~
~tty on terms of intimae~ him. Amoog'~
lt:~al im lon of tiM is ~ tiW,._
mmstances or:-hich appear to hue beelr detailed ftorb
'~is-'Own dictating: the narratiw it·u follow11: · '· ·· ·
· - "Ro:a:&&T Lindaay, grandchild, or great-pJllllebil4,.to
--Sir- David. Li!Mbay of ye Montb, Lyoa Killg ·at .AWatt,
·&c., heiag intimate condilciple with A. P., ttMr 1tu-
gained) a,uw 1671, tha.t wboever dyed first ehoulCl give
account of his condition if poesible. It happened that
be ·dyed about the end of 1675, while A. P. wu at
Pluis; alld the very lli~ht of his tleath A. P. dreamed
that he was at Edinburgh, where Lindsay attacked him
1bus:-' Archie,' said he, ' perhape ye heArd I'm -4eld ?'
-• No, Roben.'-' Av, but they burie my bGdy io tlae
· Greyfryen. I am alfve though in a place whereof the
.,lea.Surea cannot be exprest in Scotch, Greek, or Latiue.
l have come with a well-sailing small ship to Leith Road,
- to carry ;ou thither.'-' 'Roben, I'll go with you, bnt
wait till ·go to Fife and East-Lothian, and take lean!
of my p&re!ltll.'-• Arebie, I have but the allowaD(l8 of
one tide. Farewell, I'll come for you at another tiae..'
· ·~Iince which time A. P. never slept a night without
dreaming that Lindsay told him he was alive. ADd hav-
m~ a dangeroua sicknet!S, tJftftO lt)94, he Will told by
Kobeo that he wu delayed for a time, and dlat it wu
properly hia task to carry him of', but was ~
to tell lfhen.''
· This is one of the most curious ghost-atoriea I have
· ever seen. I am indebted for it to David Laing, Eeq. of
Kdinburgh, whom I take this opportunity of than!ang
for other similar contribution• which I haYe ~ed
from him while preru-'ng this treatise, but DIOre parti..
cularly for prcx:unng me the sight of some rare vo-
lumes, which have been of material service to me.
-· _ o;9 ;,ed ,,Google
=-~-----
GENERAL ADDENDA.
SINCE theee pages were printed ofF, a few additions have suggest-
ed themeelves to me, but none of any importance to the general
train of reasoning which I have employed. Upon the cause of
sleep, for l.ns.tance, which I have considered as involved in the
greatest obscurity, some CIUious and original observations are ofFer-
ed in the learned and valuable notes of Dr Milligan, which he
baa· appended to his translation of Magendie's Physiology. (See
page 436 tmd 436 ofthu traml.) But it would be difficult for me,
in the form of an insulated note, to connect his physiological views
with those which J have taken of the states of the mind during
sleep.
I ha.;e also been informed, that according to some experiments
lately maae in Paris, the mental efFects resulting from the nitrous
oxide are affirmed not to have been the same which occurred to
Sir Humphry Davy. With regard to this result, I suspect that
it has been loetsight of, that the influence of tHe gas only C()-()peratu
, with such moral causes as are capable at the time of imparting
a pleasurable degree of vividness to the mental feelings. In
Sir Humphry Davy's experiments which he made upon himeelf,
the influence of the gas was always considered in connexion with
the previous and contemporaneous states of his mind, as they were
aiFecf.e!l by moral causes ; and it is on this account, that his re-
aearebes 8l8 particularly valuabl~
THE END.
P&I:NTI!D BY OLIVER II: BOYD.
w
