{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1825__anglicus___astrologer_of_nineteenth_century.pdf","mytitle":"Astrologer Of Nineteenth Century","mylang":"de"}
THE
©
,o x
^QVOMJvfcr*®ect£
T s
v.
Ck.
>
- //to/,) trt/) /A //////<////?
Klimium
/Xw,-
WIJLJL IAM CMARIL T © N W RIGHT,
Pater Noster Row.
, TLET fcTYKRELL.BUBILIN. l.koBEKT.SO.N',.' C?EB1 !B1 EUSB
.tenner sc.
SSbxmc (&ZTtmxm%£$.
LOTfDOX. /;^<r ^^r
...... .X
JU>;
I
k §^i
V^~
Afei^OLofeMft^^
NINE TEE N TH C EN T
Hm
OR,
€oc JWaSfcv Mtg cf,4Ptttat itj),
/7
GUIDE TO ANCIENT MYSTERIES, ,
BEING A
COMPLETE SYSTEM OF OCCULT PHILOSOPHY.
Embellished with Five Beautifully Coloured Plates,
AND NINETY ILLUSTRATIVE ENGRAVINGS OF HOROSCOPES,
HIEROGLYPHICS, AND TALISMANS.
S3g t!)e jfHem&tr* of tfje &Xtrcurii :
RAPHAEL, TI1F. METROPOLITAN ASTROLOGER;
THE EDITOR OF THE PROPHETIC ALMANACK J
AND
Other Sideral Artists of Firt-Rate Eminence.
THE SEVENTH EDITION,
SUPERVISED AND CORRECTED, WITH NUMEROUS ADDITIONS,
BY MERLINUS ANGLICUS, JUNIOR, GENT.
Author of" Urania," the " Philosophical Merlin," " Sybilline Fragments," $c.
and Member of Several Learned Societies.
One so strong
That could control the moon, make flows and pbbs;
And deal in her command without her power."
Shak/.pcare, Tempest.
" There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Thau are dreamt of in your philosophy."
Hamlet.
" Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth
Unseen, both when we wake, and when we sleep."
Milton.
LONDON
:
PRINTED FOR KNIGHT AND LACEY, PATERNOSTER ROW,
AND WESTLEY AND TYRRELL, DUBLIN.
MDCCCXXV.
BEAUTIFUL STARS ! in other days,
THE PROPHETS* EYES MIGHT READ YOUR RAYS ;
AND TELL OF MANY A STRANGE EVENT,
OF WARFARE, AND OF WARNING SENT. L. E. L.
aa.5 s
Davidson, Pnuter .Sevle's Place, Carey Street.
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS
THE SEVENTH EDITION.
L\ consequence of the rapid sale of the former editions, and the unprecedented
inquiries after the " Astrologer of the Nineteenth Century," which, (however
envy may rail at the assertion, is nevertheless a fact,) has been honoured by the
notice of some of the highest characters in the kingdom, and has, in fact, made
converts of many an infidel to the doctrine of the stars, the proprietors have
deemed it expedient to present the philosophical world with a new and more
compendious edition, wherein the faults, repetitions, and inconsistencies of the
former volumes, necessarily attendant upon periodicals, are carefully expunged,
and replaced by more valuable matter, both original and select ; amongst which
may be pointed out, as worthy attention, the complete analysis of astrological
science, which will enable the tyro to become, in a short time, capable of learn-
ing the astral theory in its most essential parts, and thus proving its truth or
falsehood himself ; and if there is a possibility (which we contend there is) of
reading- our fate in the stars of heaven, this volume will afford him a satisfactory
clue for doing- it.
It is really surprising to what an extent prejudice may be carried, and no less
strange, that men of science, literature, and profound learning, men accustomed
to logical reasoning and mathematical demonstration, who are in the habit of
scrutinizing every theory, whether novel or ancient, that crosses their path, and
who are many of them earnestly intent upon unravelling the choicest of nature's
secrets, even in her most retired forms, who take nothing upon mere hearsay, but
require the test of experience ; it is certainly astonishing that suck characters
should yet, in one instance, be universally the slaves of custom and the dupes of
prejudice —We allude to those men of science and learning who do not scruple
unhesitatingly to cry down, and even contemn the science of astrology, without
perusing or studying a single principle of its theory ; or without any examination
by the touchstone of truth, whether those doctrines which have stood the test of
ages, and are as old or older than the scriptures, are founded upon truth or fic-
tion—or whether there is any difference between the sublime theory of the skilful
astrologer, and the chance predictions of a gipsy fortune teller ! In former periods*
astrology may have been said to have reigned supreme lord of the ascendant*
and to have been the star by whose light men guided their paths to riches and
power : this is well known to the historical student ; neither have later
ages been deficient in producing the most firm admirers of the u predictive art."
Witness the famous Roger Bacon, the monk of science, and founder of our mo-
dern chymistry, and his greater namesake, the celebrated and matchless reasoner*
Lord Bacon. Sir Christopher Heydon, whose admirable defence of the art drove
VI INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.
the learned Chambers from the stage of life ;* the metaphysician Loc-Jce, the im-
mortal Newton, and amongst many others, Flamstead,\ the founder of the Royal
Observatory at Greenwich ; and lastly, the late learned Dr. Tilloch, late editor
of that established scientific periodical, " The Philosophical Magazine"% who
was a secret admirer and firm advocate of judicial astrology, with several others
that we could mention, no less distinguished for soaring above the heads of their
scientific competitors, and who were an honour to their day and generation.
We are however aware, that the prejudiced enemies of the art will evade the
conclusion derived from such premises, and instead of considering them as a
proof of astrology, will declare such facts to be " weaknesses
1
'
of these great
men. This sweeping assertion is but too often used as an argument, when, at
the same time, it is an assertion devoid of all argument ;
yet, as the majority of
mankind still follow the slavish trammels of custom, it is difficult to disprove
that which is so congenial to the commonly received opiuion of our literary com-
peers. However, in no instance whatever is prejudice respectable, and least of
all so, when found in a quarter where it should be entirely out of the question.
If, however, astrology be a delusion, and the offspring of superstition as they term
it, so is the greater part of astronomical principles, for more than two-thirds of
the science depends upon mathematical and astronomical data, and therefore de-
monstrable ; neither is it the offspring of ignorance, as some also term it, since it
requires a very able calculator to make use of its theory.
The matter however may, in our opinion, be soon set in a right view, and its
truth or falsehood rendered obvious, for in this volume are found the most esta-
blished rules of the science ; and if its opponents, previous to decrying the art
as fallacious, would bestow a little study upon the subject, and deign to calculate
their own horoscopes thereby, they would soon set the matter entirely at rest.
And further, if some one out of those numerous critics who will doubtless pounce
most cruelly upon this volume, will condescend to cast their own nativities by
the rules therein contained, and will afterwards give the result of their calcula-
tions to the public, prefixing to their horoscopes a list of the most remarkable
events which have befallen them, and will thence undertake to prove that those
events were not foreshown by the configurations and aspects of the heavenly bo-
dies at their birth, giving the rules in art for such events and their failure j it
will then become every sober and judicious admirer of Nature's secrets to endea-
vour to exterminate the astrological science as a blot on the page of history, and a
disgrace to the age in which they live ; but until then, let them give astrology fair
quarter, and allow it as a science to be capable of rendering mankind wiser, happier,
and better, as it undoubtedly does. And until the science is thus experimentally
disproved, it will become every critic to remember, that no one can prove the truth
or falsehood of a science without first learning its theory ;§ for, as an excellent
* It is an unquestionable fact, that Chambers was so mortified at Sir Christo-
pher Heydon's defence of judicial astrology, that in a short period he actually
died through mere vexation. Why do not the editors of the " Retrospective Re-
view" prove or deny this stubborn fact?
f Vide Hone's excellent EveryDay Book, where the history thereof is published.
J His horoscope, as given by himself a short lime before his death to Mr. John
Varley, is in the possession of the Mercurii.
§ Someshoit time since, Dr. Woolaston, the celebrated astronomer and philoso-
INT110DUCT0RY REMARKS. Vit
writer justly observes, " it is equally as ridiculous to listen to any argument
against astrology from one who is ignorant of its principles, as it would be to
listen to the arguments of an illiterate cobbler upon the science of architecture."
It is also obvious, that those who may in future inveigh against the science,
without having learned to analyse its well-digested theory, will be entitled to
just about as much respect in their opinions as an illiterate rustic would deserve
were he to attempt a refutation of Newton's Principiae, and, by a sweeping as-
sertion* affirm the beautiful machinery of the universe to be the effect of mere
chance.
Thus far we have argued negatively, and, on the other hand, what unpreju-
diced mind can view the nice agreement between celestial cause and terrestrial
effect, detailed in the second circle of this work, without acknowledging the
efficacy and influence of " heaven's beauteous orbs J" One instance'in particular
we would wish to be borne in mind—that of Saturn in his progress through the
sign Gemini. Thirty years ago Saturn was there, and only let the reader consult
the chronology of that period, and compare them with the present progress of that
infortune through the same sign. Thirty years ago the Sister island was filled
with discontent, and the Metropolis the scene of riots, and filled with excitement
from factious demagogues. The fanaticism of Brothers was in full activity j the
Fires in the metropolis were numerous, and other disasters, amongst which were
prominent the abridgment of the subjects' liberty, through the enactment of severe
statutes, and the disastrous marriage of the Prince of Wales, which had some
years after well nigh plunged England into a state of civil war. Abroad, also, we
find similar events to have happened, such as Copenhagen nearly destroyed by
fire, the Archduke Leopold blown up by fire-works, death of the Dauphin, and
France torn by domestic factions. Under the present transit of Saturn, which
began in June 1824, we have 6een the rage for Joint stock companies, (which
will certainly be the ruin, eventually, of thousands) the excitement caused by the
Catholic question ; the death of the King of France ; the popular commotions
caused by the repeal of the combination laws ; and innumerable Fires, disasters,
and distressing occurrences ; amongst which stand conspicuous the great fire in
Tichfield Street, when the two infortunes, Saturn and il/ars, were in conjunction ;
and much more of a similar nature remains yet to come. Who is there that,
viewing these facts, and the peculiar combination of planetary influence acting
at the time, but will own the stars to have influence over sublunary affairs ?
Or who is there that can view the illustrious positions in the Nativity of our most
gracious sovereign, the unfortunate propensities so visible in the Horoscope of
the unfortunate Caroline, the position of Mercury in the Horoscope of the cal-
pher, called, in company with a friend, upon an amateur in astrology, of high re-
nown in the arts, and when the subject was broached, the doctor expressed his sur-
prise at hearing that astrology contained anything like scientific development. Nay
he had never even seen a single author on the subject, and was astonished to see
a thick quarto volume written in defence of its principles, and he even went so
far as to confess the subject worthy attention. Yet it must be recollected, that
this worthy doctor had previously spoken and inveighed against astrology, and
declared it a chimera, but with what show of reason we will have the reader to
judge.
vui INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.
filiating youth, the arithmetical calculation of Byron's death, or the authenticated
predictions which this volume contains, but must acknowledge the axiom laid
down by us that there is an astrology in nature, and a possibility of foreknow-
ledge, to be sterling truth ?
If these facts are not sufficient to excite the attention of the incredulous, we
would point out to their notice the obvious effects of that dread celestial mes-
senger, the " blazing1
comet/' which was never more plainly exemplified than in
the lift and fortunes of the now harmless, but late mighty conqueror, Napoleon
Bonaparte. Without tracing his career of fame to his forlorn end, be it first of
all here remembered, that he was born in August 1769, and, for several months
preceding his birth, the northern regions of the heavens were visited by one of
those blazing messengers ; and, without following his steps to the summit of his
fame, let us pause a moment to behold him upon it, surrounded by majesty of his
oivn creating^ himself seated on the throne of the world, Spain on his west, the
nllotted portion of one brother, Westphalia of another, on his eastern quarter;
Holland on his north, having the third for her king; and on his south, with the
crown of Naples, was decked the husband of his sister! At every point were
his military dukes and minor relatives posted, and the validity of his solid great-
ness seemed ratified by his illustrious marriage with the Archduchess of Austria.
Could anything human appear more stable than the monarchy of France in
1811 ? But at the meridian of his glory a comet of prodigious character came to
witness hi3 eminent station. Returning from its perihelion, that maynifcent
luminary became faintly perceptible, at the beginning of September, 1811, at
which time it had acquired 20° of celestial north latitude, and was then vertical
in the latitude of Corsica, and the southern extremity of natural France. Its
splendour continued to increase, until it had reached 48° of latitude, at which
time, blazing with unspeakable splendour, it hovered upon the latitude of Paris
!
Having traversed the heavens in such a track as to reign vertically over every
point of latitude from south to north of France, let it be strictly noticed, that its
highest degree of lustre was at that precise time when it was on the meridian
and zenith of Paris, at noon-day. It again retreated towards the south, re-
tracing back again the whole of France, until it vanished over the latitude of
Corsica. Can any reflecting mind fail to associate the appearance of this illus-
trious messenger of the skies, with the fate of Napoleon? Let it also be remem-
bered that during the few latter weeks of his life, whilst the spirit of his mortal
existence was gradually evaporating, the same blazing star of Fate again ap-
peared, as though it came, a bark launched on the calm, wide, azure sea of heaven,
to meet his soul expiringt
and bear it htnee to its realm of rest.
Let its errand be what it might, these facts we know—that at his birth it mi-
nistered—it came again and testified his fame—once more it came to beam ttpon
his bier !
And who is there that has not noticed the remarkable and intense heat of the
present summer (1825) ? which has also seen the appearance of two inferior co-
mets, which were doubtless the primary causes of the extraordinary weather
we have experienced j for one of these was, a short time back, in conjunction
with the sun, and the other is still visible at the period we now write.
These facts, certainly, if well weighed by thinking persons, must cause Aetio-
logy to be discussed ; and as discussion is> the prelude to truth, we may venture
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. IX
to predict that, like phrenology, its sister science, it will eventually triumph over
its opponents.
The science of Geomancy is an amusing-, and in many instances, a correct
science, being founded on astrology, yet by no means so certain ; it was
of old, termed " The Philosopher's Play" and as pourtraying the ancient method
of " casting lots," i3 worthy the attention of the curious as an amusement of
the mos~t rational kind. In neither of these sciences is there anything either su-
pernatural or diabolical, and they may be practised without fear of evil by the
most fastidious.
As to the more mystical part of the work, the theory of magic rites, charms,
and incantations, they are inserted merely to complete the development of the
occult studies, formerly pursued by our forefathers, who firmly believed therein j
we ourselves, however, advocate them not, but leave them to those who de
light in the terrific, and the horribly sublime. At any rate, both this part and
the legendary tales which are inserted, may serve to beg-uile many a weary hour,
if they do no other j and those who do not like them, may peruse another part
of the work, for which purpose they are inserted in a separate circle, not inter-
fering with the other branches of science. Yet it is possible that even this part
of the work may not be devoid of utility ; but may, by the horrors it portrays,
serve to create an enthusiasm that may hereafter serve to enkindle some mas-
ter spirit, who shall weave therefrom a tale of deep and fearful interest, which
may, in reality, spell-bind its numerous readers.—Those who delight in terrific
legends, will find ample room for gratification in the perusal of those mystical
pages, many of which are replete with those horrors now so much sought after.
We conclude by expressing our grateful remembrances to those ervdite corres-
pondents who have enriched our pages with their contributions, and in the in-
sertion of which, we have acted with the greatest impartiality ; we hope, there-
fore, upon the whole, that our labours will be well received, as we have ex-
ecuted them in the spirit of men who mean well, which, we hope, will be an
excuse for any accidental defect ; yet if any critic should upbraid us with insuf-
ficiency and slight our pains, we care not, neither shall we seek revenge,
" Nam mihi non datur
Est posse tonare Jovis^
But if he will set his hand to increase the common stock of learning, and become
emulous to promote the search after scientific truths, he shall have our sincerest
thanks, whether hislabours are for or against us. And, in the hope that this vo-
lume may be found acceptable to the legitimate students of the celestial science,
we conclude our " introductory remarks," and long may Astrology triumph
over its united adversaries.
London, Sept. 1825. The Mehcurii.
Sfinojtffe of tfie ©ontentg.
Circle 1,
THE NECROMANCER, comprising a Remarkable Series of Wonderful
Events, founded on Fact ; the Tale of Der Frieschutz, Awful Appearance
of an Evil Spirit: Valmondi, or the Unhallowed Sepulchre; Life in DeatH,
or the Spectre Wife ; Invocation of Spirits, a Fragment ; the Magic Dice, from
the German ; Awful Apparition of the Chevalier de Saxe, raised by Schrepfer
;
the Midnight Storm - - - Page 1 to 127
Circle 2.
The Chronicle of Celestial Influence, exemplifying the Power of
Astral Agency over Kingdoms, States, and Individuals; on the Ad-
vantage of Consulting Celestial Omens ; Bonaparte consulted ditto ; Signs
under which Harris's Balloon ascended ; Omens of Lord Byron's Death ; Astro-
logical View of Bel and the Dragon; King and Queen of the Sandwich Isles ;
Omens of their Arrival ; Observations relative to Saturn ; Precautions relative to
Saturn in Gemini; Extraordinary Memory; the Present Fashion of Medical
Practice ; Candid Survey of Passing Events ; Rage of Infidelity in England ;
Comparison of Configurations ; Adventures of the Astrologer ; Overthrow of the
Anglo-Saxon Dynasty ; Climacterial Years of Life ; Remarks on the Deaths of Il-
lustrious Strangers ; Retrospective View of Remarkable Events, and their Signs ;
Signs attending the Coronation; Comparison of Signs of the most Remarkable
Fires; Fire at Astley's ; at St. Paul's Covent Garden; Loss of the Ainphion
;
Fire at Liverpool ; at the Circus ; at St. James's Palace ; at Carlton House; at
Drury Lane Theatre"; at the Custom House ; Destruction of Immense Property
at Birmingham; Fire in Edinburgh; Great Fire of London; Singular Quota-
tion ; Earthquake and Violent Heat at Lisbon ; Constellation of the Southern
Cross; Spots on the Sun - - Page 128 to 184
Circle 3.
Magic Charms,Ceremonies, and Incantations, comprising theAncient
Practice of raising Spirits and invocating the Dead ; Nature of Intelli-
gences and Spirits ; Names and Descriptions of Spirits ; Extraordinary Warning ;
Mysterious Writing ; Bonds and Adjurations of Spirits ; a Charm against Furious
Beasts ; A Charm against Trouble ; A Charm against Enemies ; A Charm
against Fire and Water; Cabalistical Woids of Great Efficacy ; Prediction of a
Babylonian Astrologer ; Appearances of Spirits ; the Spirit Oriens ; the Spirit
Paymon ; the Spirit Egin; the Spirit Amaymon ; Planetary Spirits; Spirits of
Saturn ; Spirits of the Sun ; Spirits of the Moon ; Curious Note concerning the
Above Spirits j Spirits of Mars ; Spirits of Mercury ; Spirits of Jupiter ; Spirits of
Venus; Method of Raising Spirits; to raise an Evil Spirit; to raise the
Mighty Spirit Egin, King of the North; Incantations to bind the Ground ; Form
and Appearance of the Spirit Egin ; Incantations to invoke his Appearance j
CONTENTS. XI
to raise the Spirit Oberion ; Circle and Mystic Rites ; the Great and Powerful
Incantation, which all Spirits must obey ; A License to discharge Spirits ; to in-
vocate the Dead, or raise the Spirit of a Departed Person ; the Necromantic
Spell; to raise the Spirit of a Suicide; Extracts from the Translation of Reu-
ben's Famous Latin MSS. ; An Epitome of the Angelical World, from theMSS.
of Dr. John Pordage - - Page 185 to 245
Circle 4.
A Complete Illustration of the Celestial Science of Astrology,
COMPRISING THE ART OF FOREKNOWING FUTURE EVENTS, BY THE POSITIONS,
Aspects, and Configurations of the Heavenly Bodies; Principles of
Nature on which Astrology is Founded ; Proportional Quantities of Matter in
the System ; Different Systems; Arguments Concerning Starry Influence, drawn
from the Tides ; Application to the Science ; Necessary Observations ; the Twelve
Signs; the Zodiac; the Aspects; Table of the Essential Dignities ; Table of the
Orbs ; A Meteorological Table ; Table of Fortitudes ; Choice Astrological Se-
crets ; Significations of the Twelve Signs; Properties and Influences of the Pla-
nets; Explanation of Astrological Terms; Figure of the Horoscope ; Directions
for erecting a Figure of the Heavens; Tables of Houses; Tables for finding the
Hourly Motion of the Moon ; Table for Planetary Motions ; Operation of the
Twelve Houses of Heaven; Signification thereof; Table of the Fixed Stars
;
of the Space and Duration of Life ; the Fortune of Wealth ; the Fortune of
Rank; of Marriage; of Children ; of the Quality of the Profession ; of Travel-
ling; of Primary Directions ; Signification of Fixed Stars; of Transits ; of Se-
condary Directions ; Part of Fortune; Revolutions; the Art of Resolving Ho-
rary Questions ; the Planetary Dignities ; Figure of the Heavens for the Ascent
of Harris the Aeronaut; Figure for the Ascent of Mr. Sadler; Figure for the As-
cent of Mr. Graham ; Art of Calculating by Trigonometry Page 246 to 368
Circle 5.
Wonderful Prophecies by Celebrated Astrologers ; A Commentary
on a Celebrated Prophecy of Nostradamus; A Wonderful Prophecy by ditto-
Astrological Fragments by her Royal Highness Princess Olive of Cumberland ;
Planetary Predictions by the Royal Merlin ; A Prophetic Fable, by ditto; Ob-
servations, Predictions, and Prophetic Recollections by ditto ; Singular Predic-
tion by Raphael ; A Serious Prophecy of Nostradamus ; Prediction in the
Prophetic Almanack ; Predictions by Raphael; Astrological Causes of a Dread-
ful Storm ; Hieroglyphical Prediction of the Death of Louis XVIII. ; Prediction
of the French Revolution ; Prodigy related by Josephus ; Prediction of a Scotch
Seer ; Various Warnings - - Page 369 to 405
Circle 6.
An Original Selection of the most Illustrious, Eminent, and Re-
markable Nativities, both of the Past and Present Time, bv Ra-
phael, the Metropolitan Astrologer; Nativity of Geo. IV.; Astrological
Calculation of the Coronation Aspect ; Nativity of the Duke of York ; Nativity
of the Duke of Clarence ; Nativity of the late Queen Caroline ; Nativity of the
Infant Princess of Clarence ; Nativity of the Ducde Bordeaux, Heir to the Throne
of France ; Nativity of the Right Hon. Lord Byron ; Calculation of his Death ;
*»' CONTENTS.
Nativity of the Pretender, from an Ancient MSS. ; Nativity of Geo. Bidder, the
Calculating Youth; Nativity of Mr. J. Varley; Nativity of the Editor ; Nativity
of Harris ; Nativity of Graham 5 Nativity of J. English ; Nativity of Mr Muss,
Enamel Painter to the King; Nativity of Harrictte Wilson ; Nativity of a Mili-
tary Officer ; Nativity of a Child - Page 40G to ICO
Circle 7.
A Synopsis of Geomancy, or the Science of casting Cble-tial Lots,
as practised in former times; A Ta'de of the Sixteen Figures ; Method of cast-
ing the Lots ; Manner of divination ; Nature of the Figures ; Figure for the Silk
Weavers ; Figure for the late Queen Caroline; Figure for 1821; Figure for the
end of 1S24 ; the Destiny of Charles X. ; Figure for the Lion Fight at Warwick ;
Figure for the Autumnal Quarter, 1825; Examples from Chaucer's Illuminated
MSS. ; Fate of the Arctic Expedition predicted ; Figure for an Accident; Figure
for Thurtell the Murderer - - Page 461 to 489
Siircle 8*
Wonderful Charms, Talismans, and Curious Secrets in Occult Fhi-
1 osophy, extracted from Ancient MSS. and Rare Old Authors; Singular Pro-
perties of Natural Magic; Transplantation; the Magical Candle; the Magic
Torch to cause Serpents ; the Magic Torch for Flies ; Magical Oil of Grapes ;
Talismans ; A Talisman against Reptiles ; A Talisman against Enemies ; A Ta-
lisman for Love; A Talisman for War and Battle ; Ancient Runic Calendar ; A
Charm against Thieves ; A Charm for Diseases ; the Famous Magical Ointment;
the Sleep of Plants; the Urim and Tkummim ; the Electrum Magicum ; the
Magic Bell ; Perpetual Lamps ; Talismanic Power of the Moon Page 490 to 515
Circle 9.
Anecdotes of the Dead and Terrific Legends, containing Authenti-
cated Narratives of Visions, Spectres, Ghosts, Warnings, and Su-
pernatural Occurrences ; Apparition to Mr. Graham; Appearance to Mr.
Muheady, R. A. ; Omens of Death ; Apparitions at Abbot's Leigh, Somerset
;
Ominous Dream ; Apparition at Leigh Court House ; A Curious Old Astrologer
;
Fatal Dream; Extraordinary Incantation; Apparition to Mrs. Sarah Smith;
Extraordinary Impulse ; Attempt to raise Spirits ; Supernatural Noises and
Omens ; the Tapestry Legend ; Singular Extracts relative to Spirits and De-
mons, and their Power over Mankind, communicated by Philadelphus, in a Let-
ter to the Meicurii ; Awful Ghost seen by Lord Lyttleton Page 51G to 548
Circle IO.
MERCURIANA, or Astrological and Scientific Fragments. — Ex-
tract from Partridge's " Dqfectio Geniturarum ;" Nativity of Vincent Wing ; Re-
marks thereon by Raphael ; Hints to Astrologers by the Mercurii ; the Hyleg ;
Directions ; Measure of Time ; Transits; Lunar Directions ; Rectification of a
Nativity; the New Planets ; Great Fire in Titchfield Street ; Square of Mercury
and Saturn ; Philosopher's Stone; Curious Experiments ; A Comb to cure the
Headach ; to make a Tree bear Fruit ; to hinder from the Bite of a Mad l)og ;
Queries to Sceptics ; Flamstead proved to have been an Astrologer ; Extraordi-
nary Magical Narrative - - Page 517 to 560
TO THE AUTHOR OF WAVERLEY
THIS VOLUME,
WHICH CONTAINS A COMPLETE ELUCIDATION OF
THOSE MYSTERIOUS ARTS
SO OFTEN REFERRED TO
IN HIS INIMITABLE NOVELS,
WHICH IN FORMER TIMES SO PECULIARLY ENGROSSED
THE POPULAR ATTENTION,
AND WERE THE SUBJECTS OF ALMOST UNIVERSAL BELIEF,
H0 23etrtrattfj,
WITH THE MOST PROFOUND ADMIRATION OF HIS UNRIVALLED
TALENTS, WHICH COULD ALONE HAVE CAUSED THE INTENSE
INTEREST NOW SO GENERALLY EVINCED RELATIVE TO THE
THEORY OF THOSE STRANGE AND EXTRAORDINARY SPECULA-
TIONS, DENOMINATED,
" Zf>t ©ccttlt Sciences,"
EXPLANATION OF ILLUSTRATIONS,
And Directions for placing them.
Plate I.—The $l0nette <£itite is an emblematical view of the lasting and sure
-basis upon which the occult sciences are founded, in which the signatures of the
principal writers appear conspicuous. The luminaries typical of truth are dis-
pelling the shades of error by the refulgence of conviction. The Pedestal,
adorned with mysterious characters, supports a Kev, the handle of which is the
ancient emblem for eternity^ expressive of the unlimited and almost infinite range
of these sublime sciences.—The sacred name of" ineffable majesty" thereon inti-
mates that the utmost stretch of human knowledge is nothing without the divine
assistance j even as a drop in the bucket would be as nothing when compared to
the waters of the vast unfathomable ocean.
Plate 2 —jBEL30JC Ceremonies exhibits a view of the process used by the an-
cients for invocating an intelligence, or angel of the first hierarchy, who, beam-
ing with angelic glory, appears at the call of the theurgist. Horrid shapes and
fearful forms—" the artillery of hell," surround the circle, but the invocator, be-
girt with powerful lamens, is unmoved and unterrifled.—Frontispiece to face
the Vignette Title.
Plate 3.—?Ctofut 3!nboeaticn of a &j)irit, taken from a scene in the Necro-
mancer, of deep and fearful interest.
—
Toface page 50.
Plate 4.—<£Dtnar& fteffn vawrift the $rjo£t of a Departed #er$on, as re-
corded in " Weaver's Funeral Monuments.'' The ghost, bound by potent spells
and horrid incantations, appears to the magician, and reveals the impious secrets
he inquires after ; the waning moon shines dim, and pale stars lend their un-
hallowed light to this execrable deed of darkness.—Toface page 229.
Plate 5.
—
2ttofuT &J»pearance to Horb HgtteltOtl. Theghost of an unhappy
female announces " to the appalled and conscience-stricken man, that at that
very hour, on the third day after the visitation, his life and sins would be con-
cluded."
—
To face page 5AG.
The VIGNETTE ENGRAVINGS OF HOROSCOPES, -HIEROGLYPHICS,
AND TALISMANS, ninety in number, are already placed at the head of the
sections to which they correspond, and are calculated most effectually to illus-
trate the subjects of which they treat.
SCr" The Index should be placed at the end of the Volume.
OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY
CIRCLE THE FIRST.
THE NECROMANCER;
COMPRISING A REMARKABLE
SERIES OF WONDERFUL EVENTS,
FOUNDED ON FACT,
But which have never yet been made Public ; being translated from a curious
original German Work, expressly for the present Occasion.
Blustering winds and chilling rain proclaimed the unwelcome ap-
proach of winter ;
yellow Autumn saw her leafy honours fall to the
ground ; loud roared the storm across the Elbe, whose ruffled waves
curled to the boisterous breath of iEolus. No more the silent grove
resounded with the voice of harmony and love. In hollow trees or
moss-bemantled walls the feathered songsters sought shelter from
the rude unfriendly blast The raven alone, from some sequestered
2 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
tower, mixed his hoarse notes with the hoarser cries of the ominous
bird of night. Safe in his peaceful cot, the honest husbandman re-
laxed his wonted toils, and, whilst his well-fed fire defended him
from the inclemency of the weather, enjoyed in sweet tranquillity the
fruits of his former labour.
After a long-lamented absence of more than thirty years, Herr-
man had the satisfaction of welcoming his friend Cronheim to his
house. Educated together from their infancy, they had early formed
a mutual attachment, which gradually ripened into the sincerest
friendship, and united their hearts by the most endearing ties,—ties
not less binding, not less sacred and invincible, than those of blood.
Great, therefore, was the reluctance with which they parted from
each other, after having completed their studies at the University of
Gottingen. Herrman engaged himself as private tutor to a nobleman
of distinction, with whom he made the tour of Europe'; whilst Cron-
heim, being of a more gay and volatile disposition, sought his for-
tune in the wars.
The feeling heart alone can picture to itself the mutual pleasure
and rapturous delights which our two friends experienced at em-
bracing each other, after an absence of so many years. Time had
not yet extinguished the fire of youth and the wonted impetuosity
of Cronheim's temper. " Brother," cried he, giving his hand to his
friend,—"Brother," let us forget the dull counsels of age ; let us,
whilst indulgent fortune still grants me to enjoy your company, live
as in the former days that are passed ; let us live as if the thirty-
years we have spent separated from each other had never been re-
gistered in the iron calendar of time."
Eagerly did Herrman assent to this proposal of his friend. His
estate lay on the pleasant banks of the Elbe, and was, for situation,
unrivalled. Woods, meadows, brooks, warrens, hills, and dales,
relieving each other, incessantly diversified the scene ; Nature had
thrown the whole into such agreeable confusion and disorder, that
it required very little improvement to render his abode the most de-
lightful, picturesque, and romantic spot that can possibly be con-
ceived.
Cronheim, who, for hunting, was at least a second Nimrod, had
THE NECROMANCER. 3
here the fairest opportunity of gratifying his favourite passion ; nor
was Herrman a whit behind him in his pursuits. Pleasing was it to
behold the youthful ardour with which our sturdy veterans, at peep
of dawn, would bound over hill and dale, to chase the flying stag
or bristled bear.
Already had a week elapsed in these delightful health-bestowing
exercises: every morning was devoted to the chase; and when,
spent and languid, they returned from the pleasing sport, a rural re-
past and good old Rhenish wine refreshed their weary limbs ; nor
was the bottle or the pipe laid aside till Evening long had spread
her sable mantle over the globe, and steeped their eyelids in the
dews of sleep.
But now a change of weather put a stop to their sports. Loud,
as we have already observed, loud roared the bleak tempestuous
storm ; the rattling hailstones beat violently against the windows,
threatening destruction to these brittle channels of light. Herrman
and Cronheim saw themselves obliged to relinquish the chase : in
pleasing conversation they endeavoured to beguile the tedious hours,
whilst they recapitulated the deeds of former times, and rehearsed
the past adventures of youth. Evening approached, and found them
still indulging the talkative disposition of age.
Louder and louder roared the storm, fierce and more wild raged
the conflicting elements ; Herrman, with lavish hand, heaped fresh
logs upon his friendly fire, and, pushing round the mirth-inspiring
glass
—
" Whilst angry elements do quarrel,
Be their's, he cried, the bustle,—our\s, the barrel.
1 '
Pleased with the cheerful humour of his friend, Cronheim re-
cruited his pipe, and, after a short pause,—"Brother," he began,
*f hast thou any faith in supernatural agency ? dost thou believe in
ghosts ?"
Herrman replied only with a negative shake of his head.
" Neither am I a perfect believer in such strange appearances,"
resumed Cronheim ;
" and yet, during my travels through a certain
part of Germany, it was my fate to experience a strange mysterious
b 2
4 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
series of adventures, which I have never been able to explain to my
entire satisfaction."
This address excited Herrman's most serious attention ; his curi-
osity was raised to the highest pitch. Cronheim did not long hold
him in suspense, but began his narrative, to the following ef-
fect :—
My arrival at Francfort happened to be just at the commence-
ment of the fair. The bustle of the place, the incredible concourse
of people from every part of Europe, the ceaseless and diversified
round of shows, entertainments, and every possible sort of pleasure
and pastime, seemed to promise that my time would not easily hang
heavy upon my hands ; for which reason I determined to pass a few
weeks in that place.
The inn in which I lodged, being one of the first in the town, was
crowded with strangers in every part ; among whom an elderly gen-
tleman distinguished himself, and attracted universal notice, by the
singularity of his dress, the bluntness of his manners, and a kind of
mystical reserve in all his actions. His appearance commanded re-
spect : no bramin could exceed him in gravity of countenance ; no
quaker in plainness of apparel. He occupied the best apartments
in the inn, was attended by his own servants, took no notice of, much
less entered into conversation with, any of his fellow lodgers, went
out regularly every day after dinner, and seldom returned home till
midnight. Though he frequented all public places of resort, he was
never once seen to associate with a single individual, but walked up
and down, solitary and pensive, like a man burdened with a heavy
load upon his spirits, and distracted with care.
The extraordinary character of this stranger excited my curiosity
to be better acquainted with him : for this purpose I began my in-
quiries with the landlord ; but who, shrugging up his shoulders,
answered me only with a significant shake of his head. My next
application was to the waiters ; but they likewise shrugged up their
shoulders, and were as ignorant as the landlord. In short, I found
it impossible to procure the smallest intelligence about the stranger.
Nobody seemed to know any thing about him.
I had not been a week in Francfort before I had the misfortune to
THE NECROMANCER. 5
lose my purse. This loss I attributed to my carelessness ; and, not
doubting but some of the professors of legerdemain had been dex-
terous enough to lighten my pocket, either as I entered or came out
of a booth where wild beasts were exhibited, I prudently determined
to be more cautious and circumspect in future.
Next morning, however, in spite of all my care, I perceived a
fresh loss which gave me infinitely more concern, than I had expe-
rienced for my purse. The miniature picture of my Eliza, which I
wore suspended by a riband round my neck, and never took off, ex-
cept when I undressed for bed, was nowhere to be found. I there-
fore took the waiters pretty sharply to task : these, however, not
only disclaimed all knowledge of the picture, but manifested, at the
same time, no small displeasure at the injustice of my suspicions.
In hopes of dissipating my chagrin, I went in the evening to the
theatre : a handsome female, at a distant part of the house, caught
my eye ; I put my hand into my pocket, and began to feel for my
opera-glass, rummaging first one pocket, then the other ; but all to
no purpose,—the opera-glass was fairly gone. " Well," thought I,
" this is very extraordinary ! and with that began to congratulate
myself that, contrary to my usual practice, I had left my pocket-
book at home."
A boy with a link lighted me to a neighbouring tavern, after the
conclusion *of the performance. At the door, I gave my conductor
the usual gratuity ; and, putting my hand at the same time, in-
stinctively, to my fob, discovered that my watch was missing !
In a fit of rage, I swore not to spend another night in Francfort,
being firmly persuaded that I had been singled out as their mark by
some of the light-fingered gentry ; who, actuated by the same prin-
ciple as other traders—" the sacred thirst of gain,"—are equally
punctual in their attendance at fairs, and every other opportunity of
making money. Resolved, therefore, to pack up my things early
the next morning, and leave a place where I had experienced no-
thing but misfortunes, I seated myself in sullen despondency, with-
out taking the least notice of the company around. Already had I
finished my supper, and was preparing to depart, when, in the very
moment that I pushed back my seat,—" Pray, Sir, what o'clock is it ?"
6 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
demanded a neighbouring voice. I made no answer to this question,
which so unseasonably reminded me of my new loss.
" What o'clock is it, Sir ?" interrogated the same voice a second
time. " I cannot tell ;" I replied with peevish impatience, still ad-
vancing towards the door.
"Have you no watch, then?" was the next demand. Vexed at
the officious impertinence of the stranger, I turned round to look at
him, and oh ! heavens ! what was my surprise at beholding, in the
person of my inquirer, no other than my fellow lodger in the inn,
—
the elderly unsociable gentleman, whose character had before so
much excited my curiosity.
The serious look with which he regarded me sufficiently indicated
that he expected an answer to his question.
" My watch, " 1 began
—
" Has been stolen from you," interrupted the stranger ;
" how-
ever, give yourself no uneasiness. I have been fortunate enough to
discover the thief. Here, Sir, is your watch, and take better care
of it in future."
1 stood for some time mute with astonishment. The same hands
which purloined my watch had, I made no doubt, exercised their
ingenuity on the other articles I had lately lost. This rendered me
extremely anxious to know the offender, but, before I was sufficiently
recovered from my surprise to commence my inquiries, the stranger
had left the room.
I immediately hurried back to the inn : the stranger did not re-
turn till midnight. The moment I heard his footsteps on the stairs,
I flew to meet him ; and, making a low bow, began to thank him
for the recovery of my watch. But the unsociable gentleman, with-
out deigning to take the least notice of my discourse, passed abruptly
by me, and, entering his own apartment, locked the door after him.
All subsequent attempts to enter into conversation with the won-
derful stranger proved equally abortive. In the inn, he constantly
kept himself locked in his own apartment, and, in places of public
resort, seemed assiduously to avoid me. Three days passed in fruit-
less endeavours ; at length, provoked with the old gentleman's un-
accountable reserve, I determined to give myself no further trouble
THE NECROMANCER. 7
about him, but, packing up my portmanteau, fixed upon the follow-
ing day for my departure, although I had met with no fresh loss or
disaster since the recovery of my watch.
Previous to my leaving Holstein, I had been supplied by my un-
cle, Mr. Vander Laer, of Hamburg, with bills for a considerable
amount, drawn upon a certain house in Leipzig, with which my un-
cle transacted business. Being low in cash, I resolved to get these
bills negotiated in Francfort, and therefore set out, immediately
after breakfast, in quest of a merchant to whom I had been recom-
mended for that purpose. I met with little difficulty in finding out
the house, but had so much the more in finding my pocket-book,
which, after feeling for it first in the right pocket, then in the left,
then in the right again, and so on alternately for a full half hour, was
actually missing.
" I certainly must have left it at home !" cried I : and, posting
back to the inn, unpacked my trunk, and emptied its contents a dozen
times at least ; but all to no purpose,—pocket-book and notes were
irrecoverably lost.
How T passed the remainder of the day after this discovery, I shall
not attempt to describe. Evening approached, and found me still
busy in rummaging every hole and corner in quest of my pocket-
book, which, however, did not think proper to be forthcoming. The
greatness of my loss hardly suffered me to be convinced of its reality;
after one of the most uneasy nights that can possibly be conceived,
I renewed the search next morning, but with no better success than
before.
Stranger in a foreign land, without money, without friends, I now
beheld myself the slave of necessity ; and, with my eyes fixed sul-
lenly upon the ground, stood wringing my hands, and calling down
curses upon myself, and the unknown author of my calamity, when
I was roused from my painful reflections by a sudden knock at the
door. "Walk in," I cried with peevish impatience : the door flew
open, and who should make his appearance but my fellow lodger,
the strange unsociable gentleman !
" Young man," (presenting a bill to me) here is sufficient to carry
you home to your friends ; the post sets out to-morrow morning.
I wish you a pleasant journey : farewell
!"
£ THE ASTIIOLCKJER QF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
In an instant lay the draft upon the table, and away hurried the
donor, before I had time to recover from my surprise, or to utter a
single syllable. Astonishment long held me, as it were, chained to
my seat ; but curiosity to be acquainted with the nature of the
stranger's bounty getting, at length, the better of my amazement, I
proceeded to examine the paper, which I found to be a bill for one
hundred and twenty dollars, drawn upon a merchant in Francfort,
and payable at sight.
If I was before confounded and surprised, I was now not less vexed
and chagrined at this adventure, in consequence of which I saw my-
self debtor to the generosity of a stranger, whom nobody seemed to
know, whose very name and place of abode I had in vain attempted
to discover : what probability, therefore, had I of ever acquitting
myself of my obligations by making restitution ? " I must and will
learn his address" was my final determination ; accordingly, I repaired
to the stranger's apartment, knocked at the door, but, to my great
disappointment, found him not at home. In hopes of dissipating
my uneasiness, I iikewise resolved upon a walk, and hurried to join
the busy scenes of tumult and confusion which the fair exhibited.
It was late when I returned back to the inn. The stranger was
not arrived : his usual hour was midnight; I therefore proposed to
wait his return, and either to insist on knowing his address, or else
compel him to take his present back again. For this purpose, leav-
ing my door a-jar, I seated myself on a sofa, and endeavoured to
beguile the tedious hours of expectation by reading a German trans-
lation of Ossian.
Midnight approached without any signs of the stranger's return.
I still continued stretched upon the sofa ; at length I grew drowsy,
Ossian dropped out of my hands, my eye-lids closed involuntarily,
and, overpowered by sleep, I already nodded, when I was suddenly
roused by a noise at the" door of my room. I started up—all was
silent. I opened the door—could hear nothing—see nothing. It
certainly must have been imagination—I must have fancied or
dreamed that I heard a noise. Resuming, therefore, my book, I
rubbed my eyes, wiped them with a wet cloth, and, that I might be
in less danger of giving way to slumber, began to read aloud :
" Docs the wind touch thee, O harp, or is it some passing ghost?"
THE NECROMANCER. 9
Hardly had I pronounced the last words, when the noise returned. I
could plainly distinguish the tread of human feet along the passage :
the noise drew nearer and nearer. Presently I believed I heard a
trembling hand groping for the lock of the door, which, opening gra-
dually, discovered a female figure dressed in white, with a veil over
her face, that reached half way down her shoulders.
Slow and solemn, with her back turned to me, she drew near the
table, took up my watch, examined it attentively, sighed thrice and
deeply, replaced my watch upon the table, and continued her walk
to the opposite corner of the room. In repassing, she rested her head
upon her left hand, and, drawing her veil aside with her right hand,
I beheld, with horror and astonishment, the very features of Eliza ;
but her countenance pale, her eyes sunk and hollow, and her brow
contracted with indignation.
After a short pause, she drew nearer, cast an angry look at me,
held up her hand in a threatening attitude, and, thrice beating her
breast, whilst heart-piercing groans burst from her bosom, regained
the door, and disappeared.
On recovering from my surprise, I found myself still seated upon
the sofa, and, revolving in my mind every concomitant circumstance
of this extraordinary apparition, was firmly persuaded that the whole
adventure could be nothing but a dream. I looked at my watch
—
it was exactly one o'clock. Impatient at the stranger's delay, I
threw myself, dressed as I was, upon the bed, and slept till late in
the morning. My first care, upon awaking, was to inquire of the
waiter whether the strange gentleman had returned to the inn last
night. I was answered in the negative. "Has he left Francfort?
—
Did he make any mention of travelling?"
"To have taken any notice to us of his intended journey," re-
plied the waiter, " would be contrary to the mysterious reserve of
his character ; it is, however, probable enough that he is gone. His
reckoning he settles regularly every day after dinner ; and, as to trunks
or baggage, he never carries any thing of the kind along with him."
" Suppose we step to his apartment; I am curious to satisfy my-
self whether he be actually gone or not."
The key stood in the door ; but, excepting the usual furniture of
10 THE ASTltOLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
the room, not the smallest trace was there of any person having
lodged in it.
This was to me a very unwelcome discovery. What hope could I
now have of ever being able to acquit myself of my obligations to
my unknown benefactor ? More than once 1 felt myself tempted to
destroy the bill for which I stood indebted to his bounty ; but this,
as I justly reflected, could in no shape cancel or lessen my obligation.
Suddenly the thought shot across my mind, that perhaps the bill
might be of no value; it might be fictitious,—might be drawn upon
a person that was no where to be found. Though this supposition,
in case it should prove true, threatened to involve me in my former
embarrassment, I took a strange delight in cherishing the idea, and,
that I might put an end to my suspense, showed the note to my land-
lord, under pretence of inquiring after the merchant on whom it was
drawn. The innkeeper instantly described the street and house,
offering to send his boy with me to show me the way : this, how-
ever, I thought proper to decline.
1 went therefore alone, and tendered my bill for payment the
same morning. The merchant ran over the draft, and then fixed his
eyes with uncommon significance upon me. His looks seemed ex-
pressive of something more than mere astonishment. This I consi-
dered as a confirmation of my suspicions, and expected every mo-
ment to hear the validity of my bill called in question. I found
myself, however, mistaken ; the merchant, still eyeing me with the
same significant attention, opened his desk, and counted me the
money. This seemed a favourable opportunity to obtain some in-
telligence concerning the stranger from whom 1 had received the
note ; I ventured, therefore, to question the merchant about the
drawer of the bill. Evidently disconcerted at this demand, the
merchant shrugged his shoulders, and, without making any reply,
locked his desk and departed ! 1 found his conduct strangely mys-
terious : a confused train of ideas rushed upon my mind; a walk
seemed best calculated to drive away the vapours ; I repaired, there-
fore, to a neighbouring tea-garden.
The beauty of the weather had enticed a large concourse of peo-
ple to the place. I took my seat in a pleasant arbour, where wood-
THE NECROMANCER. 11
bine and white-thorn interwove their friendly branches, and, calling
for chocolate, began, whilst this was preparing, to give free scope to
my meditations, and to ruminate on the strange occurrences which I
had witnessed during my short abode at Francfort. Above all, my
dream engrossed my most serious thoughts; the more T reflected
upon every particular, the more extraordinary I found it. Eliza's
look, her wrathful countenance, the threatening manner in which
she held up her hand—and but too well I knew how justly I de-
served her anger—all appeared so natural, so suited to my present
circumstances, that sometimes I inclined to consider last night's ad-
venture as more than a mere dream. But against this opinion reason
and incredulity raised a thousand unanswerable objections. I en-
deavoured to banish the whole idea from my mind; in vain,—my
dream returned, revolted, recoiled upon my imagination ; opposition
only served to give it additional force. Painful was the struggle
between contending sentiments ; I could support the conflict no
longer : forgetful of the place—forgetful of the company, I broke
out into a loud exclamation—" Yes ! it must have been a dream."
u 'Twas no dream," rejoined a voice, familiar to my ear. Asto-
nished and confounded, I lifted up my eyes : the strange gentleman,
my unknown friend and benefactor, stood before me.
" Young man," he continued, " if you wish to be satisfied rela-
tive to what you saw last night, meet me at ten o'clock this evening,
at the corner of .Frederic Street, facing the Dolphin." Without
waiting my reply, the stranger hurried out of the arbour, and in an
instant lost himself among the crowd.
Soon after, the waiter made his appearance with the chocolate,
but my appetite was gone. I traversed the garden, wandered up
and down its walks, searched every where for the wonderful stranger,
inquired after him of the waiters, described him, characterized him,
offered a reward to any one that should discover him, but all to no
purpose ; none of the waiters had seen any person that answered his
description.
Chagrined at the ill success of my inquiries, I returned to the inn,
and, with a kind of secret horror, entered my apartment, where the
image of Eliza seemed still to hover round me. Painful conjectures
12 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
tortured my mind : her pallid countenance, hollow eyes, and the
signs of mortality portrayed in her looks, filled me with the most
gloomy apprehensions. The place became insupportable : restless
and uneasy, I wandered from one scene of bustling impertinence to
another ; from the inn to the coffee-house, from the coffee-house to
the mall, from the mall to the exhibition-room, from the exhibition-
room to the fair, to the booths, to puppet-shows, merry Andrews,
wild beasts, &c.—Nothing could restore me to tranquillity—nothing
afford me relief—nothing calm the tempest of my thoughts.
With the approach of evening, my assignation with the wonderful
incognito engrossed my meditations. Strange ideas, unaccountable
forebodings, harrassed my mind. The time, the place of meeting,
seemed equally mysterious and alarming. " Why not fix upon an
earlier hour ? Why not upon his own apartment at the inn ? Go I,
or go I not?" 1 incessantly put the question to myself, whilst my
wavering resolution, like a pair of balances, preponderated this way,
then that, alternately. " What risk, what danger, mayest thou expose
thyself to by going ?" demanded Prudence. " What discoveries
mayest thou not make ?" replied Curiosity :
" to-morrow is the day
appointed for thy departure from Francfort, and this very night an
opportunity offers of obtaining light, and satisfactory information, con-
cerning all the strange and intricate occurrences which have lately
taken place. How will it repent thee to neglect so favourable an
opportunity ? And of whom standest thou in dread ? Shame upon
thy manhood, to tremble at an old grey-headed gentleman." "A
gentleman to whom thou art, moreover, under obligations," added
Pride, "which this very evening thou mayest learn to acquit thyself
f#
"—Yes, 1 go, was the conclusion of my deliberations.
It was now within half an hour of ten o'clock. 1 returned to the
inn to prepare for my intended expedition. The landlord meeting
me at the door, accosted me with more than usual gaiety.
" Sir," he began, " I have an agreeable piece of news to communi-
cate, that will, I make no doubt, afford you equal pleasure and surprise."
"What is it?" I demanded with astonishment.
" During your abode in my house, you have had the misfortune
to lose, at different times, sundry valuable articles."
THE NECROMANCER. 13
" That, indeed, is but too true," I replied, with a look that seemed
to ask, whether this was the pleasant and surprising news my land-
lord had announced.
" These losses," continued the innkeeper, "have been produc-
tive of much trouble and uneasiness to me, as well as to yourself,
Sir. For the credit of an inn, you know, Sir"
—
" To the point, if you please," I interrupted him, being impatient
to be gone.
" It seems, Sir, you lost your purse, the miniature picture of a
young lady, an opera-glass, and likewise your pocket-book."
"Your inventory of my loss is very exact, very accurate, in-
deed !"
" All these articles," resumed the innkeeper, " you will find
faithfully restored ; they lie this present moment upon the table in
your apartment."
"Explain yourself !" I exclaimed, trifle with my impatience no
longer."
" The matter is even as I relate. It is hardly an hour ago since
a stranger brought these things to my house."
" A stranger, do you say? He can be no stranger to you, I should
suppose ?"
" Who, then, do you imagine it to be, Sir ?" demanded the inn-
keeper."
"Who else," I replied, " but the elderly gentleman, your former
lodger ?"
The innkeeper shook his head ; at the same instant he was called
off to attend some company. I hurried up stairs ; every thing cor-
responded with the landlord's relation. On the table lay my purse,
the miniature-picture, opera-glass, and pocket-book ; I examined
the latter, and found my notes safe and untouched. I stood petri-
fied with amazement.
That this was a fresh obligation conferred upon me by my un-
known benefactor I had little room to doubt. " But how," thought
T ; "by what means can he have been enabled to effect this resto-
ration? Why anticipate, as it were, his own appointed time of
meeting? Can he have entertained any doubts of my punctuality
14 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
in attending his assignation ? or has he, perhaps, been compelled,
by unavoidable unforeseen necessity, to accelerate his departure
from Francfort ?" The latter conjecture, whilst it appeared the
most plausible, was likewise the most unpleasant, since it deprived
me of all possibility of repaying the sum for which I stood indebted
to the stranger's bounty, at the very time when the recovery of my
own notes put this restitution in my power. However, as the
stranger's departure was not positively certain ; as the whole of his
character and conduct had been in the highest degree mysterious ;
as his disinterested benevolence, inflexible integrity, and unexam-
pled philanthropy, rendered it improbable that he should fail in his
promise of meeting me, without the most cogent reasons, I deter-
mined to repair to the appointed place of rendezvous.
" Did the bearer of the lost articles, which I have thus unexpect-
edly regained, leave no message relative to the author, the place, the
manner, of their recovery ?" addressing myself to the innkeeper, in
my way to the door.
" None in the world," replied the innkeeper; " he said neither
more nor less than what I have already told you. ' Here are the
things which M. Cronheim has lost during his abode in your house ;'
and, without leaving me a moment's time to question him further
upon the subject, laid them down upon the table, and departed."
" Take care of this till my return," said I, delivering the key
of my apartment to the landlord : my effects I have regained ; for
the future I leave them in your custody,—from you I shall expect
them." The time of assignation drew near : I hurried away from
the inn.
The clock struck ten ; I kept my post at the corner of Frederic
Street. Dark was the night ; loud and hollow roared the wind ; not
a star shone in the firmament ; every distant sound, every approach-
ing footstep, announced to my fond imagination the arrival of my
unknown benefactor. I ran to meet the coming passenger, accosted
every one that fell in my way, but found myself continually mistaken.
Repeated disappointments served to confirm me in the opinion which
I had already formed on recovering my pocket-book, with the other
articles of my loss, as above related. My generous friend, thought
THE NECROMANCER. 15
I, must have left Francfort,—must have been under a sudden in-
dispensible necessity of travelling. I grew tired of waiting—the
sound of the church-clock again saluted my ears ; it was eleven,
and the stranger had not yet made his appearance. Passengers
were no longer heard at a distance ; midnight, silence, impenetra-
ble darkness, surrounded me ; vexed and discontented, I sat out on
my return to the inn.
Hardly, however, had I advanced ten paces, before I fancied I
heard somebody endeavouring to overtake me. " Stop, Sir," ex-
claimed the well-known voice of my long-expected friend. I in-
stantly turned round, and ran to meet him.
" Sorry am I," began the courteous stranger, w to have detained
you so long."
" Longer, Sir, would I have waited with pleasure, had I been
certain of meeting you ; had I not been apprehensive that you had
left Francfort. I burn with impatience to see myself extricated
from my doubts ; to obtain your promised explanation relative to
the mysterious adventures which I have lately experienced."
" That explanation you shall soon receive," was the stranger's re-
ply : " follow me."
With long and hasty strides he now began to lead the way, dis-
playing more activity than could have been expected from his years.
I followed him ; not a single word passed between us. We soon
approached the city gates : these were in an instant thrown open by
the guard, and now our way led across the suburbs.
At the extremity stood a lonely antiquated house or castle, sur-
rounded with a high wall, and apparently in a very ruinous condition.
The stranger stopped short ; three times he struck with his staff
against the massy gates : hollow sounded his knocks through the
solitary apartments. An old grey-headed porter gave us admittance.
The stranger demanded a light ; a lantern was brought : in mysteri-
ous silence he traversed the rooms, where desolation seemed to have
taken up her abode ; all was waste, empty, uninhabited ; the old
grey-headed porter excepted, I saw no signs of a single living ani-
mal. After passing through a long narrow passage, we came into a
spacious garden, if a place overgrown with briars and thorns may
16 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
deserve that title. Here, however, the former picture of silent
solitary desolation was quite reversed: bats and owls swarmed in
every part, and filled the air with their doleful lamentable cries.
A ruinous antique summer-house, built of flint and granite, stood at
the bottom ; thither I followed my conductor.
" Time and place," began the latter, carefully re-locking the door
the moment I had entered,—" time and place are here equally fa-
vourable for our purpose : explain the nature of your doubts, and
those intricate events concerning which you desire better informa-
tion."
I began with a brief relation of the extraordinary manner in
which my pocket-book, notes, &c. had been restored to me, and was
just proceeding to inquire whether my conductor was not the author
of this fortunate discovery, when I was interrupted by the latter.
" I am perfectly acquainted with the whole transaction ; ask what-
ever question you please, but let it comprise the sum of all your
wishes."
This command involved me in the utmost perplexity. How was
it possible for me, in my present state of surprise, to consolidate, to
concentrate, as it were, my desires instantaneously into one focus,
into one object, one point ?
The stranger perceived my embarrassment. "Ask, then," he re-
sumed, "who the friend is that interests himself so faithfully in your
concerns."
" The very question," I replied, " that I most devoutly wish to
have resolved."
M Well, then, you shall soon have an opportunity of seeing this
friend —of being personally acquainted with him."
" Soon have an opportunity !" I repeated with astonishment.
" Am I not acquainted with him already ? Are not you, yourself,
Sir, that friend, that generous benefactor ?"
" No !" replied the stranger, with a negative shake of his head ;
I am nothing more than his instrument ; and that—here he paused
a moment—and that only at the third hand."
At these words I regarded him with silent amazement. Of this
the stranger seemed to take but little notice, but, drawing from his
THE NECROMANCER. 17
pocket a small box filled with red sand, began to scatter its con-
tents about the floor ; then describing with his wand two circles, he
placed me in one, whilst himself occupied the other, and, with his
hands crossed upon his breast, and his eyes directed upwards, stood
for a long time motionless like a statue.
" What,'* thought I to myself, " will be the end of these myste-
rious preparations ?"
The stranger still continued motionless, till a distant church clock
announced the solemn hour of midnight. Hardly had the last stroke
ceased to vibrate on our ears, when, suddenly turning himself round
in his circle, he pronounced, with an audible voice, at full length,
the name of Eliza. I started with horror and astonishment. In-
stantly was heard a subterraneous noise, like the thunder under
ground that forebodes an earthquake, or when it rattles with aggra-
vated peals, re-echoing from the mountains.
The stranger pronounced the name of Eliza the second time, and
louder and more awful than before. A flash of lightning shot across
the room, which shook with the roaring of the deep-mouthed
thunder.
Louder, and still more dreadful, the stranger pronounced the name
of Eliza the third time. A sudden trembling seized upon me—the
whole summer-house seemed to be on fire—the ground gave way
under my feet—I sunk down—the spirit of Eliza hovered over me
—
my senses forsook me.
A violent rocking gradually restored me to the use of my faculties.
At first I fancied myself tossed to and fro by invisible hands, whilst
a loud rattling noise invaded my ears. The jolting still increased.
Presently, I perceived myself seated in a vehicle that rolled along
with surprising velocity. Impenetrable darkness surrounded me
—
it was impossible for me to distinguish a single object. I found my-
self terribly confined and straightened for want of room : somebody
sat at my right hand, but whether my companion belonged to the
spiritual or corporeal race of beings, I was not sufficiently recovered
from my surprise to determine.
Meanwhile the carriage rolled along with increasing rapidity, but
either the roads must have been extremely rugged and uneven, or
c
18 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
my driver, being unacquainted with the country, was unable to se-
lect his way in the dark, for we encountered such terrible shocks
from loose stones, the roots and broken branches of trees, &c. that
I expected, every moment, to see the vehicle overset, and dashed in
pieces. How long I continued in this miserable situation it is diffi-
cult to ascertain, as you may reasonably suppose that one hour's
travelling in this mode might well seem longer than a journey from
Leipzig to Dresden in a stage coach. At length a most tremendous
shock put a period to our expedition : the charioteer drove fiercely
over a prostrate mile-stone—off flew one of the wheels—and down
came the carriage in an instant.
" Jesus ! Maria !" exclaimed my companion ; who, falling right
upon me, pressed me with such true, unequivocal, and substantial
weight, that, had I been capable of the least reflection, I might soon
have satisfied my former doubts, whether my associate belonged to
the immaterial or corporeal race of beings.
Excruciating torments awakened me from the state of stupefaction
in which I had lain several minutes. Rough voices repeatedly called
out for help, and presently a countryman, with a lantern, ran to our
assistance. On opening my eyes, I perceived two men standing over
me, each holding a horse apparently just unharnessed from the
broken carriage. They attempted to lift me up ; my agonies in-
creased—I found myself unable to stand, and entreated them, for
God's sake, to let me lie. A second attempt was made to raise me
on my feet: in vain—it appeared that my thigh was broken. No
sooner was this discovery made, than the two men swung themselves
upon their horses, and, promising to procure assistance in the first
town or village they should meet, galloped off at full speed, leaving
me to the care of the peasant, who kindly did all in his power to
comfort and encourage me.
The night was piercing cold, which greatly added to the poig-
nancy of my torments. A whole hour elapsed—no help made its
appearance—the men with the horses seemed to be in no hurry to
return. At length the distant rattling of a carriage was heard : the
countryman with his lantern ran to meet it ; it proved to be a coach
and four.
TflE NECROMANCER. 1 9
" Stop, for the love of Christ!" he exclaimed, and briefly related
the disaster which had just befallen me. A middle-aged gentleman
sprang out, and, with the assistance of the countryman and his own
attendants, conveyed me to the carriage, where having seated me as
conveniently as circumstances would admit, he gave orders to drive
as gently as possible.
Hardly had the morning began to dawn, when we entered a po-
pulous village on the estate of Baron von Kampenhausen : such was
the gentleman's name who afforded me protection in my present ca-
lamity. I was immediately conveyed to the manor-house. A ser-
vant, despatched for that purpose, soon Teturned with a surgeon ; the
necessary operations were performed, after which I was put to bed.
My kind and noble benefactor paid me all possible attention, sat
hours together by my bed-side, and, as soon as I was sufficiently re-
covered to enter into conversation, entertained me alternately with
his discourse, and reading extracts from the best French and German
authors.
At the expiration of nine weeks I was able to lay my crutches
aside, and, taking an affectionate leave of Baron von Kampenhausen,
returned to Francfort. My sudden disappearance from that place
had greatly alarmed the landlord of the inn where I lodged ; who,
having made many fruitless inquiries after me, gave me entirely up
for lost. Great, therefore, was his surprise at my unexpected return,
after so long an absence. Hardly would he credit his own eyes,
when I first made my appearance, but, crossing himself, and adjuring
me in the name of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, began the usual
preamble which, from time immemorial, has been deemed an infal-
lible charm against hobgoblins of every description. However, after
I had with some difficulty satisfied him that it was no apparition, but
a bond fide flesh- and-bone inhabitant of this terraqueous globe, T
received my effects at his hands, and, the day following, set out from
Francfort, on my way to Switzerland.
Here ended Cronheim his wonderful narrative, and, anxiously fix-
ing his eyes on Herrman, seemed at once to wish, and yet dread, to
hear the judgment which his friend would pass upon it.
After a short pause, " Marvellous," began Herrman, " is the re-
c 2
20 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
lation I have just heard—marvellous to such a degree, that had I
not myself experienced adventures of a similar, or even more won-
derful nature, and which probably may be more intimately connected
with your own history than you would at first imagine, I must can-
didly acknowledge I should be apt to call the authenticity of your
narrative into question."
Cronheim, who fully expected to find, not only a severe critic, but
an incredulous hearer, in the person of his friend, was all impatience
to be made acquainted with the wonders which Herrman had an-
nounced ; but the latter, observing that the night was already far
spent, and that, as he was only a partial actor in the drama, it
would be necessary for him to consult some papers in which the his-
tory was continued and brought to its catastrophe, begged leave to
postpone his relation till the following day, to which demand Cron-
heim readily acquiesced.
Aurora, with rosy fingers unlocking the chrystal gates of light,
ushered in the sprightly morn. Clear and unclouded shone the sky,
hushed was the storm, the weather appeared the very reverse of
what it had been the preceding day. Cronheim, notwithstanding,
manifested no inclination for the chase ; but, at breakfast, took occa-
sion to remind his friend of last night's promise, and anxiously in-
quired whether he had found the papers to which he then alluded.
Herrman replied in the affirmative, and at the same time gave him
to understand that, on account of the immoderate length of his his-
tory, his design was to relate at present only as far as himself had
been an acting person in the drama. The remainder, which formed
by far the greatest part of his history, he promised to deliver to him
in writing, but not before the time fixed for his departure ; lest, he
added, ghosts and necromancers should so entirely engross their
thoughts, as to leave no time for the more rational solaces of friend-
ship.
Cronheim declared himself satisfied with this proposal, and Herr-
man, as soon as he had reloaded his pipe, began his promised nar-
rative, to the following effect
:
Soon after our separation on leaving Gottingen, I engaged myself
as private tutor to the young Count von Einsidel, a nobleman not
THE NECROMANCER. 21
less distinguished by his virtues than by his illustrious descent, with
whom I travelled through the greatest part of Europe. Our tour
lasted three years, and, though it may be supposed that, in the course
of so long a journey, in which, like Ulysses, we had occasion to see
—
" Mores hominum multorum et urbes," *
we could not fail of meeting with many extraordinary adventures :
the most wonderful as well as the most dangerous of all seems to
have been reserved for our return to Germany from Switzerland.
We had already nearly cleared the Black Forest f, when, on a
sudden, the sky became overcast, the rain poured down in torrents,
and the livid flashes of lightning, bursting right over our heads,
succeeded one another with such rapidity, that the thunder, reecho-
ing from the woods, the rocks, and mountains, seemed but one con-
tinued peal. To add to our distress, night how began to approach :
not such a night as tender lovers choose to wander in by the moon's
pale lamp, and breathe their amorous vows—but rather a night,
such as poets have conceived, when Lapland witches J charm the
labouring moon, and bring her down to earth, whilst darkness, with
her raven wings outspread, hovering beneath the fair expanse of
heaven, forbids the starry host their mild effulgence to diffuse, and
cheer the traveller with their silver light.
We had not travelled many miles in this dismal condition, before
our postillion had the misfortune to lose his way ; and, what still ag-
gravated our calamity, he did not perceive his mistake till it was
already too late to rectify it. I shall not attempt to describe the
* Through many kingdoms, many towns he strayed,
And foreign customs, laws, and manners, weighed,
t This immense forest is situated in Swabia, and is by far the largest in all
Germany ; known to the ancients by the name of Sylva Hercynia. Caesar gives
a description of it in his Commentaries, where he affirms it to be nine days' jour-
ney in breadth, and three score in length.
X
" Thessalae mulieres vel lunam e coelo detrahere profitebantur. Repente enim
luna, cum plena esset et sublimis, facta est obscura, lumineque deficiente multi-
pliers mutatis coloribus evanuit"—Unde Virgilius, Eclog. viii.
"Carminavel coelo possunt deducere Lunam.''''
Song, mystic song, attracts the labouring Moon.
Confer, et H6ratium, Epod. v. et xvii.
22 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
gloomy apprehensions which filled our minds on his communicating
to us this unwelcome intelligence. Our postillion was naturally a
lad of humour, and, agreeably to the laudable practice of his profes-
sion, had entertained us all day with a recital of the numberless
murders, robberies, rapes, &c. which had been perpetrated in this
immense forest. We had likewise, in many instances, received
ocular demonstrations of the truth of his reports from the numberless
crosses which in this country are erected on the spot where any mur-
der has been committed, partly with a view to put travellers upon
their guard, and partly to entreat their prayers for the rest of the
souls of the defunct. Hardly an hour passed without our meeting
one or more of these crosses, with the following inscription :
NEAR THIS PLACE WAS MURDERED
N. N.
ALL GOOD CHRISTIANS PRAY FOR
HIS SOUL.
As we wished for nothing more ardently than to extricate ourselves
from this dismal situation as soon as possible (being not less in pur-
gatory ourselves than the souls of those for whom our prayers were
desired), we ordered the postillion to lose no time in fruitless attempts
to regain the right road to the town we had originally designed to
put up at, but rather to drive straight forward with the utmost expe-
dition, till we should have the good fortune to light on some human
habitation, where we might pass the remainder 0/ the night in safety.
With this request our Jehu willingly complied, and, after exercising
his whip for a full hour with all the fury of his illustrious predeces-
sor of that name, we found ourselves emerging from our worse than
Cimmerian forest, upon the entrance of a large plain or common.
"Blessed Virgin-mother of God !" exclaimed the postillion, with
a degree of ecstacy not to be conceived, " we are at last in open coun-
try, and, if I am not mistaken, my Lord, at no great distance from a
village.
The music of the spheres could not have sounded more delightful
THE NECROMANCER. 23
and harmonious to the count and myself than this intelligence from
our postillion : nor was it long before his conjectures were confirmed
by a hideous howl which half a score of dogs set up on our nearer
approach.
Great was our joy at beholding once more the peaceful abodes of
man. The village we found to be of considerable extent, but the
inn, if such it may be called, was one of the most execrable that ever
I set foot in in the whole course of my life. " Benedicite !" exclaimed
the landlord, all astonishment at seeing a postchaise draw up before
his door,—a phenomenon which caused .him to stare as much as if
the Grand Turk in person had come to pay him a visit. It was no
wonder, therefore, if the bill of fare of the house contained nothing
more than a few smoaked sausages, some rusty bacon, and a stale
loaf of brown bread. Wine or beer, he assured us, was not to be
had in the whole neighbourhood ; and such was the goodness of his
brandy, that even our postillion was glad to wash his mouth after
swallowing a glass of it.
I inquired whether the lord of the manor resided on his estate,
hoping to meet with better accommodation from the hospitality of a
stranger; but received for answer, that the manor-house was entirely
waste and uninhabited, nobody having been able to live in it for this
century past, and upwards : I demanded the reason.
" Why, as to matter of that, look ye, gentlemen," replied the land-
lord, " it is an affair wbich nobody much cares to speak about
—
neither dare I, on any account, give you any item of the business to-
night ; but wait," he added, " till to-morrow morning, and then, if
you are not able to divine the cause yourselves, why I will even let
you into particulars."
As little satisfied with this reply as myself, the count pressed the
landlord to be more explicit, and even insisted on having a catego-
rical answer to the question I had put : but our landlord was not to
be prevailed upon ; he continued shaking his head as sturdy as a
mule, and, when he found that we would not desist from our in-
quiries, left the room with evident signs of displeasure, grumbling
something about unlawful curiosity and divine judgments, with other
obscure hints, which to us were quite unintelligible.
24 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Vexed as we were at what we considered a most unpardonable in-
stance of rudeness, we were fain to make the best of our present cir-
cumstances, and to digest our coarse unsavoury fare as well as we
could. Indeed, the black Spartan broth of Leonidas would have
been a downright luxury, compared to the miserable entertainment
we partook of on this occasion ; but experience verified the old pro-
verb, that " hunger is the best sauce."
After we had finished our homely repast, and somewhat appeased
the cravings of nature, we laid ourselves down upon some clean fresh
straw, which here supplied the place of a bed to our weary limbs.
The count was presently buried in a profound sleep ; whilst I kept
turning from side to side, and, harrassed by a thousand unaccount-
able apprehensions, found it impossible to close my eyes. In this
state of uneasiness I continued till the watchman, with hoarse voice,
announced the solemn hour of midnight. My ears were instantane-
ously alarmed with the distant sound of horses' hoofs, and the echo-
ing thunder of trumpets, horns, and other wind instruments. The
noise drew near, and presently a whole troop of horse seemed to pass
in full gallop by the window, the air at the same time resounding
with such a full band of music, that, had it not been for the unsea-
sonable hour, added to the disagreeableness of the night, I should
have imagined his Serene Highness the Elector, with his whole court
and retinue, had marched through the place on a royal hunting-
party. The count awoke with the noise, and, abruptly starting up
—
" What can be the meaning of all this ?" he demanded, with a
mixture of fear and astonishment.
To this question I was as little able to give a satisfactory answer as
himself. I continued, therefore, to listen with the greatest attention
to what was transacting, and perceived, to my no small surprise, that
these nocturnal Nimrods had hardly passed our inn, before the noise
of their horses and instruments died away, and the whole place was
as silent as before. This appeared to me exceedingly singular. I
began afresh to give free scope to the workings of a disturbed ima-
gination, and, comparing in my mind the strange scene I had just
witnessed with the unaccountable reserve and dark innuendos of our
landlord, I attempted to unravel the mystery that seemed to envelop
THE NECROMANCER. 25
this adventure. As for the count, he soon relapsed into a profound
slumber, and snored away as heartily as ever.
Setting aside the inclemency of the weather, it appeared to me
very improbable that any person should ride out on a hunting-party
at midnight. This reflection induced me for some time to regard
the noise I had heard as the consequence of my having dreamed to
that effect : but when I took into serious consideration the behaviour
of our landlord, and the sudden awaking of the count, I found my-
self greatly staggered, and cannot deny but a secret horror invaded
my whole frame.
Lost and bewildered in a painful labyrinth of conjecture and doubt,
I insensibly grew weary of the strife between contending opinions,.
A gentle slumber, the welcome forerunner of the somniferous deity,
had already closed my eyelids, when I was roused from my lethargy
by the hoarse cry of the watchman, who, with the whole collected
force of his lungs, gave notice that the clock had just gone one in
the morning. His voice, however, though powerful enough to entitle
him a second Boanerges, was soon drowned by the return of the same
alarming noise I had before heard. I immediately arose, and,
hastening to the window, which shook with the echoing thunder of
horns, trumpets, &c. resolved to satisfy my curiosity relative to this
nocturnal troop of Nimrods by ocular demonstration ; but, before 1
had time to throw the window open, the whole squadron had passed
the house in full gallop, with a noise equal to the loudest whirlwind,
and a few minutes after the former silence succeeded, and all was
quiet as the grave.
I was now fain to banish all further thoughts of sleep, for the
present night at least, and, not able to wait till breakfast, at which
time the landlord had promised to satisfy our inquiries relative to
the uninhabited mansion, I ran to the window the moment I heard
the watchman begin to cry two o'clock.
" Friend," I accosted him, "what can be the meaning of -the
noise and racket that alarmed our ears at the hours of twelve and
one ?"
" Why, truly," was his answer^ " your honour must certainly be
26 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
a stranger in this neighbourhood. There is not a child in the vil-
lage but knows all about it. We have this noise, as you call it,
every night for weeks together : after that, we are quiet again for a
season."
M Well, but," I replied, "what whimsical gentleman is it that
hunts at midnight?"
" Nay, that, indeed, I am not at liberty to tell you ; inquire of
your landlord, who ca*n inform you of every particular. For my
part, I am only doing my duty, and my trust is in God. But not a
syllable of what I see and hear will I betray to any living soul ; nor
should the king's ransom tempt me to it." And with that the watch-
man took himself off.
I wrapped myself up in my great coat, and, drawing a chair to
the window, awaited, with anxious impatience, the tardy return of
day. At length the morning began to dawn ; the whole village re-
echoed with the crowing of cocks, which, I may truly say, never
sounded more grateful in my ears. The count at the same time
awaking, and seeing me already dressed :
—
" Why, you are up by times, to-day, Sir," he began, rubbing his
eyes. " Pray tell me what noise that was which disturbed us last
night?"
" Indeed, my Lord," I replied, " my curiosity in this respect is at
least equal to your own ; and hardly can I wait till we receive the
promised information from our landlord. And," added I, " if your
lordship had not slept so soundly, you would have heard the troop
gallop past us at one in the morning with the same dreadful impetu-
osity and noise as they did at twelve."
The sound of horses' hoofs in the yard put a stop to our conver-
sation. I ran to the window, and saw an officer with his servant
alight before the inn door. They presently joined us, and having,
like ourselves, had the misfortune to be benighted and lose their
way, our acquaintance was soon formed. The officer was a spirited
young fellow, about three and twenty, wore Danish uniform, and
had, it seems, been sent upon a recruiting-party. The count related
our last night's adventure, which the lieutenant for some time re-
THE NECHOMANCER. 27
garded as a mere joke. But, upon ray positive assurance that what
he had just heard was a real fact, he testified a strong desire to be
better acquainted with the midnight hunters.
" That honour you may easily have," replied the baron ;
u only
pass the night here, and we will bear you. company."
" Done 1" cried the lieutenant; " I hold you to your word, and
who knows but our hunting gentry may be civil enough to admit us
of their party. In that case," added he, laughing, " we come in
for our share of a haunch of venison."
Hardly had he pronounced these words when the landlord made
his appearance—" Well, gentlemen," he began (after previously
bidding us good morrow), "did your honours hear any" thing extra-
ordinary last night ?"
" But too much!" was my reply; however, pray inform me who,
and what kind of hunters, they are that seem so fond of exercising
their sport at midnight?"
" Why yes, to be sure," resumed the landlord, " these are mat-
ters, as 1 said before, which one don't much care to talk about. I
was unwilling to satisfy your inquiries yesterday, lest your incredu-
lous curiosity should precipitate you into mischief, w7
hich, God
above knows, has been the case with many ; however, as I promised
to give you a relation of the whole affair this morning, you shall
find me as good as my word.
" Here, at the bottom of the village, stands a large house, which
formerly was the residence of the lord of the manor. Now, you
must know, it so happened that, a great many years back, one of
these lords was a terribly wicked man, who cared neither for God
nor devil, and treated his subjects worse than his cattle. Nobody
could do any thing to please him. Even his own children he would
bang and kick about like dogs, and, for the least trifle, order them to
be thrown into a dark filthy hole or dungeon, where they were at
last starved to death. His subjects he never called by any other
name than his beasts, and as such he treated them. In short, he
was a true devil incarnate !
" Now, this wicked man delighted in nothing so much as in
hunting. In his woods he harboured all kinds of game, even the
28 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
most savage—wild boars especially—which made terrible havoc and
ruination in the fields and gardens of his peasants : and yet, if any
of the latter only offered to drive away one of those furious animals,
that was, perhaps, treading down his corn or devouring his turnips,
he was sure to be confined for weeks together upon bread and water.
"Whenever this nobleman thought proper to go a hunting, the
whole village was obliged to draw out and accompany him ; and on
these occasions he would make them supply the place of dogs, and
set them upon the game, which whenever they were not able to
catch, he would horsewhip and worry them with his hounds till
they fell down dead at his feet.
" One time, as he was indulging in these cruel practices till late
at night, he was thrown from his horse, and broke his neck upon the
spot. The clergy would not suffer him to be interred in the church-
yard like a Christian, for which reason he was buried in a corner of
his park. But now the terrible judgments of divine vengeance be-
came manifest ; for to the present day his wretched soul is not suf-
fered to rest. At certain stated times and seasons the wrath of Al-
mighty God obliges him every night, the moment it strikes twelve,
to ride through the village, and, with Beelzebub and his hellish
train, to drive into the manor-house, where he is fain to stay till one
o'clock in the morning, which no sooner is heard to strike, than
the whole infernal troop of them are remanded back to the bottom-
less pit.
" Since his death the manor-house has always been untenantable.
Many who have foolishly attempted to sleep in it have paid for their
temerity with their lives. Nay, I know it to be a fact, that several
who have slept in my house, and who, on hearing the noise of his
approach, have been daring enough to look out at window, have
been punished with a swelled face, or even a particular cast in their
eye, if not with a total deprivation of sight, for their rash curiosity."
With these words our landlord concluded his long-winded ha-
rangue; and, wistfully eyeing us all round, regaled his delighted op-
tics with the astonishment portrayed in our countenances. His
pleasure was, however, of short duration ; the lieutenant instantly
bursting out into a loud fit of laughter, for which, from the silence
THE NECROMANCER. 29
he observed during the landlord's narration, he seemed to have pur-
posely reserved the whole collected force of his lungs.
" Nay, Sir, you may laugh as you please," replied the latter, with
no small degree of impatience ;
" but I'll venture to lay the last far-
thing I'm worth in the world, that you laugh on the other side of
your mouth by to-morrow morning, provided you have heart suffi-
cient to stay here over night."
" That you shall soon see," was the lieutenant's reply ;
" not
only here, my good friend, but in the very castle itself: and, were it
haunted with a whole legion of devils—were it the very palace and
pandemonium of Beelzebub,—will I pass the ensuing night. These
gentlemen, I make no doubt," addressing his discourse to the count
and myself, " will gladly favour me with their company."
My young nobleman was a man of honour. Not to accept this
challenge would have appeared to him an indelible stain upon his
character. His assent, therefore, was quickly given. For my part,
I started a thousand objections, and, representing to the lieutenant
the danger we might expose ourselves to, uncertain as we were
what kind of spirits we should have to deal with, left no argument
untried to dissuade him from his project: but the lieutenant, cut-
ting me short,
—
" I am a soldier, and wear a sword ; and for gentlemen of our
profession, ghosts of every description, both with bodies and without,
have always the most prodigious respect 1"
In short, I plainly saw that, by pretending to assert my magisterial
authority over the count, I should only render myself ridiculous
without effecting my purpose; for so resolutely bent was he upon
accompanying the lieutenant at all events, that I am convinced he
would have gone without me, had I persisted in my refusal. Forced,
therefore, however reluctantly, to comply, I at length gave way to
their entreaties; for to desert my pupil would have appeared to me
an unpardonable breach of trust.
But how shall I describe the behaviour of our landlord when he
found us fully determined upon this adventure ! His astonishment
exceeded all conception, and, with uplifted eyes and hands, he con-
jured us, in the name of the ever blessed Virgin Mary, and all the
30 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
holy saints, to desist from so rash an enterprise. " 1*11 answer for
it with my head," was his repeated declaration, "that not one of
you will live to see the light of another day."
The lieutenant, however, turning all his pious remonstrances into
ridicule, soon worked upon the irritability of his temper to that de-
gree, that he left us to our fate, grumbling some hearty curses as he
hurried out of the room.
Our conversation, as may easily be imagined, turned more upon
spiritual than political subjects ; when, after having pretty well ex-
hausted our slock of ghostly knowledge, the lieutenant proposed a
walk to the haunted castle, very judiciously observing, that it might
not, perhaps, be altogether amiss to take a nearer view, by daylight,
of those formidable premises which we had fixed upon for our noc-
turnal rendezvous. This proposal meeting with universal approba-
tion, we hurried to put it into immediate execution.
An enormous pile of building in the Gothic taste, but terribly
ruined and demolished, presented itself to our eyes. The castle was
surrounded with a high wall, besides a wide and deep ditch in front,
over which a drawbridge afforded us an easy passage. We had no
occasion to stand knocking at the gate, for thrown, as it was, wide
open, a troop of horse might have entered it in full gallop. The
appearance of the place had something wonderfully awful and ro-
mantic. We drew, as with one common consent, our hangers, the
moment we set foot in the hall. The pavement was of brick, but
overgrown with weeds and mouldering grass. From thence we con-
tinued our way through a flight of empty desolate apartments,
where spiders, rats, and owls, appeared to be the only tenants.
Windows covered with dirt, with cobwebs, and even moss itself, af-
forded no other light than what found admission through the broken
panes of glass : just sufficient to discover to our view the mouldering
remains of several ancient pieces of furnitute ; broken tables ; chairs
without backs; part of the iron- work of a large lamp, suspended, by
a chain of the same metal, from the ceiling of one of the rooms ;
with two or three ricketty benches, that seemed ready to fall to
pieces under the touch : these were the sole signs of the place ever
having been inhabited by man.
THE NECROMANCER. 31
Curiosity now prompted us to take a view of the subterraneous
apartments of this antique building. Previous to our setting out on
this expedition, we had the precaution to provide ourselves with a
lantern and the necessary apparatus for procuring fire, which we
now found exceedingly serviceable. A stone staircase, at the further
extremity of the hall, conducted us to a long, narrow, winding pas-
sage, arched over with brick-work, and terminating in a door cased
over with iron. The lieutenant still leading the way, with his lantern
in one hand, and his drawn sword in the other, boldly advanced to-
wards the door, which, yielding to his push, discovered a large vaulted
place, resembling a cellar, but entirely empty, waste, and darker
than the shades of midnight. A tainted air, impregnated with bane-
ful vapours and pestilential dews, almost deprived us of the faculty
of breathing, when first we set foot in this subterraneous dungeon.
On each side, facing the entrance, we perceived a pair of folding
doors, secured with enormous bolts and a prodigious portcullis of
massy iron. In vain was it for us to attempt further entrance. We
hastened therefore from this loathsome scene back to the hall, where,
like fishes restored to their native element, we felt our hearts expand
on once more breathing fresh air.
As this appeared to us the most eligible place for passing the
night, and giving our ghostly friends the meeting, in case they should
think proper to pay us a visit, we endeavoured to fit it up for their
reception and our own as conveniently as possible. For this pur-
pose, with the help of some rusty nails and detached pieces of wood,
which we found in abundance in the solitary apartments, we at
length contrived to make one of the old broken tables stand pretty
decently upon its legs. We next essayed our ingenuity upon a cou-
ple of the ricketty benches, which were likewise, with much trouble,
put in a condition that promised to secure us from all danger of their
breaking down under us.
Not yet satisfied, however, with the discoveries we had made, we
wandered once more through the spacious untenanted apartments of
the castle, but every where could meet with nothing but mouldering
monuments of ruin and decay. The garden was the next place that
curiosity prompted us to visit. Melancholy, indeed, was the pros-
32 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
pect that here presented itself. —Here was literally a place for
dragons, for beasts and birds obscene, and for every thing that is
filthy and abominable. Overgrown as it was with thorns and briers,
with thistles, weeds, nettles, and long grass that whistled in the
wind, our feet were not seldom entangled in the mazy labyrinth,
whilst our hangers were fain to open us a passage, which the spread-
ing branches, indissolubly twisted and interwoven with each other,
seemed unwilling to afford us. Thus we continued our toilsome
march through a long winding alley, formed of a double row of
beech-trees, that led to the extremity of the garden, at the upper
end of which we discovered, emerging from the confused mass of
briers, thorns, &c. that surrounded and almost concealed it from our
view, a black marble urn, supported by a column of red porphyry.
The workmanship was truly exquisite, but our eyes searched in vain
for any inscription ; and already were we proceeding on our return,
when the count's foot stumbled against some hard body, buried
among the weeds, at no great distance from the urn : on inspection,
it proved to be a wooden cross, on which the following words were
barely legible
:
HIC JACET
GODOFREDUS HAUSSINGERUS,
PECCATOR.
The date, if I mistake not, was 1603.
After gazing on each other for some time in silent astonishment,
" What, gentlemen, " demanded the lieutenant, " is your opinion
of this curious epitaph ?"
" For my part," replied the count hastily, " I consider it as a
convincing evidence of the truth of our landlord's narration."
Fatigued as we already were with the arduous task of opening to
ourselves a passage with our hangers through the mazy windings
and intricate labyrinths of this desolated place (for garden it cer-
tainly could no longer be called, with any propriety), we felt little
inclination to extend our painful researches to its remoter parts, but
hurried back to the main hall, where meeting with no fresh objects
to excite our curiosity, we set out on our return to the inn.
TH<E NECROMANCER. 33
Our landlord, from whom we had cautiously concealed our pro-
jected visit to the castle, was, on our return, almost petrified with
horror and astonishment at our bold, and, as he called it, astonish-
ing presumption. At the same time, conceiving it his duty to de-
ter us, if possible, from rushing on certain and immediate destruction,
lest our blood, he observed, might peradventure fall upon him, he
fairly washed his hands of us, giving us the second edition of his
morning lecture, enriched with various additions, emendations, and
improvements. But, alas ! his pious intentions met with no better
success than before. The lieutenant, indulging his natural propensity
for satire, soon rallied him out of all temper; wherefore, giving us
up for a precious triumvirate of stiffneeked incorrigible blockheads,
he only requested of us to settle the reckoning before our departure ;
and, wishing us that success which he dared not to hope, took his
leave of us as of persons no longer designed for this world.
It'was between nine and ten at night that we sallied from the inn,
all three well armed with a hanger and a couple of pistols per man ;
excepting the lieutenant's servant, who, though he carried fire-arms,
(being provided with a lantern) acted chiefly in the capacity of sutler
to the troop. Heroes in all ages have ever found an empty stomach
a great drawback upon valour, for which reason, the lieutenant, who
understood the whole art of war, both theory and practice, as well
as Csesar or Alexander the Great, and very sagaciously reflected that,
in a place where ghosts were supposed to inhabit, little store of belly
timber was to be expected, took care to clap a basket with a couple
of roast fowls and three or four bottles of wine upon his servant's
shoulders, and, thus equipped at all points, we began our march.
On our arrival at the appointed place of rendezvous, we found
every thing exactly in the same order as we had left it. Table
and benches were still standing as firm as ever ; we took our seats,
and, encouraged by the lieutenant's example, ate as heartily as any
pious Catholic may be supposed to do previously to a seven weeks'
lent, not forgetting to do justice to the wine, which circulated briskly
enough. This time, however, good cheer was found to fail of the
desired effect ; for, instead of inspiriting our drooping valour, it
acted rather like a leaden weight upon our eyelids, which with
D
34 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
difficulty were kept from closing, although the clock had not yet
struck eleven. The intermediate space between this and the canon-
ical hour of meeting our ghostly friends we endeavoured to beguile
by reading " Hagedorn's Poems," of which I fortunately happened
to have a copy with me. In this office I was alternately assisted by
the count and the lieutenant, till the latter, on examining his watch,
and finding it within a quarter of twelve, closed the book, and, briskly
running up stairs to a front room in the first floor, took his stand
facing the window, which commanded as fair a view of the forecourt,
and the circumjacent plain, as a dark unfriendly night would admit.
The count and myself followed his example, and in this posture we
awaited the scenes that were to follow, leaving the lieutenant's ser-
vant fast asleep in the hall.
At length the ominous hour began to strike, —more awful, in our
present circumstances, than the funeral knell of some departed friend.
Dreadful was the midnight silence that reigned around us. The
very pulse of nature seemed suspended ; even the faculty of breath-
ing was almost taken from us. And now the last stroke ceased to
o
vibrate on our ears. Instantly shook the whole fabric with the sound
of horns, trumpets, &c. that seemed to rend the echoing air; whilst
the dashing of horses' hoofs made the solid ground tremble as with
an earthquake : the rams' horns of Jericho were mere pop-guns
—
the downfall of its walls a mere crash, compared with the dreadful
thunder that now assailed our ears. Impenetrable darkness, how-
ever, added to the velocity of their course, prevented us from grati-
fying our curiosity, and distinguishing the authors of all this wild
and terrible uproar.
Swift as the winged whirlwind, and with equal impetuosity, ad-
vanced the sable troop. Three times they made the circuit of the
walls ; then, suddenly halting, drew up at no great distance from the
castle, facing the drawbridge. In an instant died away the noise,
like the doubtful blast still quivering on the trees, '* when the rude
storm has blown its fill." Silence resumed her wonted empire;
but not the less impossible was it for us to discover either horse or
rider.
Whilst we stood bewildered in thought, and forming conjectures
THE NECROMANCER. 35
on the scene we had just witnessed, a more immediate subject of
alarm presented itself in the court. The rattling of spurs ; the sound
of footsteps, whether human or not, was uncertain; and a confused
noise, as from a multitude passing and repassing, gave us reason to
apprehend that the troop had dismounted, and were preparing to
pay us a visit. Involuntary horror seized upon me : a cold sweat
overran my whole frame ; my knees tottered : I feared, I trembled,
I knew not why. This noise, however, was of short duration ; for,
like the former, it gradually died away, and was succeeded by gloomy
and profound silence.
"Shall we rush into the court? shall we seek to join them ?" de-
manded the lieutenant with his usual firmness and intrepidity. I
shook my head by way of reply ; the count did the same.
" Then am I like to go alone, it seems !" returned the fiery
youth, and immediately sallied down stairs, holding a pistol on full
cock in each hand, and his drawn sword under his left arm. He
was not long before he joined us again.
" There must be some mystery in all this," he exclaimed ;
" not
the smallest trace of either horse or rider to be found f
*
No answer on our part sufficiently showed that we were equally
at a loss to account for so strange and singular an adventure. The
lieutenant seated himself, and, with his eyes fixed immovably upon
the ground, seemed lost in a deep reverie : the count endeavoured
to banish more unwelcome ideas with reading ; whilst I, giving
way to the calls-of nature, soon lay buried in a profound sleep.
The report of a pistol awakened me ; I started up incontinently.
The sound of horns and trumpets again saluted my ears, but pre-
sently the noise died away as before. At the same instant the lieu-
tenant and the count entered the room. They had, it seems, like
myself, been overpowered with sleep, from which they were roused
by the return of the uproar in the court, that had so greatly alarmed
us at twelve. Eager, therefore, to discover the authors, they had
sallied out with their pistols. They met, however, with little suc-
cess : the whole troop was off before they reached the court. The
lieutenant, dashing one of the panes of the hall window in pieces
with his pistol, sent a bullet after them ; but, some white horses ex-
d2
36 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
cepted, could discover nothing through the impenetrable gloom that
surrounded them.
"Ghosts or not," he concluded his narration, "they seem to
stand in great awe of us ; and, for the present, my advice is, that
we rather spend the remainder of the night upon some clean straw
in the inn, than continue here upon rotten benches of wood, which
we hardly dare trust with our weight."
This proposal was gladly accepted, and away we trudged to the
inn, greatly to the satisfaction of John, the lieutenant's groom, who,
it seems, took little delight in hunting after ghosts.
Long had we to stand knocking at the inn-door before entrance
was granted. At length our landlord in person made his appear-
ance.
" What ! and are your honours still alive ?" he began with flut-
tering voice, crossing himself all the time : " or rather are ye come
from purgatory, to upbraid me with your destruction ? Holy Father
Romboldus ! and all ye blessed saints, defend me ; and witness for
me, how much I tried to dissuade them from their impious under-
taking !" With these words he banged the door without any further
ceremony right in our face.
Vexed as we were with this inhospitable reception, we could not
refrain from laughing, and that heartily, at the superstitious fears
and ludicrous grimaces of our landlord : till the lieutenant, out of
all patience (for the night was none of the warmest), resolved to
stand kicking his heels no longer. Thundering, therefore, at the
door, as though he designed to pull the house down over the owner's
head, he swore by all the saints in Christendom, that he would re-
duce the place to ashes, and utterly annihilate every soul within it,
unless immediate admittance was afforded us. This menace failed
not of the desired effect ; our Cerberus presently relented, and, with
many awkward apologies begging pardon, for what in fact we had
no right to be offended at, spread some clean straw upon the floor,
and, wishing us a good repose, retired to his own apartment.
On our getting up, which was not till nearly noon, the lieutenant
declared himself by no means satisfied with the result of last night's
adventure; and, signifying to us his intention of keeping watch the
THE NECROMANCER. 37
ensuing night in the forecourt of the castle, concluded with desiring
us to bear him company.
The count's eyes immediately reverted to me, seeming to expect
from rrry reply that denial which he was unwilling to deliver him-
self. I accordingly represented to the lieutenant the impossibility
of our complying with his request; that the nature of our affairs
would not suffer us to throw away any more time than had been lost
already ; not to mention the danger of such an undertaking ; four
men being, at the best, but a sorry match against a whole troop of
horse, as we had every reason, from the evidence of our own ears, to
believe them.
«' As to the danger of the frolic," replied the lieutenant, "if that's
your main objection, it is easily removed. We need only take a do-
zen stout rawboned fellows along with us. A few shillings and a
bottle of brandy (which, though not to be had here, may easily be
procured from some neighbouring town) will entitle us to pick and
choose our gang from the whole village ; and take my word for it,
Sir, we shall have a frolic, the like of which was never seen. To-
morrow morning, if you think proper to depart, you may depend
upon my company as your fellow traveller/*
The count was easily prevailed upon ; neither, indeed, was the
proposal displeasing to myself. The groom, therefore, was imme-
diately despatched to the next town to procure brandy, and other
refreshments, whilst our postillion received commission to sound his
horn*, as a signal. In a few minutes we had the whole village as-
sembled before the door, when, silence being ordered, the lieutenant,
from the superior eminence of a deal table, addressed his wondering
congregation to the following effect :
—
" Brave, gallant, and aspiring heroes ! such of you as have heart
sufficient to offer your services to accompany us to the haunted cas-
* In Germany it is customary for the postillions to carry a small French horn
with them, which is certainly a more melodious instrument than that made use
of by the guards of the mail coach in this country. The Germans having a na-
tural genius for music, many of these postillions are tolerable performers ; and
where the road, as is frequently the case, leads through large and extensive woods,
this travelling concert has a wondciful effect.
33 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
tie, well known to all inhabitants of this village, there to remain,
and spend the night with us, and in all respects to act obedient to
the orders which you shall then and there receive ; such, I say, as
shall willingly offer their services for this purpose, and who, on in-
spection, shall be judged worthy of being employed in so glorious a
cause, shall receive the sum of sixpence per man, over and above a
plentiful supply of brandy and other necessary refreshments, to keep
your noble hearts from fainting."
Laughable was it to see the effects which this harangue produced.
Not a man in the whole assembly but immediately offered his ser-
vices with so much zeal, that we had reason to apprehend a prema-
ture exertion of their valour. To prevent, therefore, as much as in
us lay, the effusion of human blood (for they seemed ready to go to
blows for the preference), fifteen of the stoutest and most promising
were drafted from this heroic corps, and the residue, in order to
atone for their disappointment, were promised a proper reward,
provided they demeaned themselves lovingly and peaceably. Here-
upon our troop received commission to attend us at the inn by ten
o'clock precisely. As to the choice of their weapons, that was left
to their own discretion,
Such vigorous preparations could not fail of exciting the utmost
astonishment in our landlord, who, now regarding us as something
more than human—as sorcerers and magicians at least, if not
devils incarnate—seemed himself half willing to accompany us,
and assist in purging the haunted castle of the foul spirits that inha-
bited it.
With the approach of evening, however, his courage began to
cool ; wherefore, pretending some urgent business, that rendered his
presence at home indispensably necessary, he contented himself with
wishing us success to our undertaking.
Our brave troop, on the other hand, neglected not to attend their
appointment with great punctuality ; and formidable indeed was the
appearance they made, armed with scythes, pickaxes, flails, blud-
geons, pitchforks, pruning-hooks, spades, and whatever weapons
chance or fancy put into their hands. Having drawn ourselves up
in battle-array before the inn-door, we began our march tolhe castle,
THE NECROMANCER. 39
headed by the lieutenant. In the rear followed our provision, camp
equipage, and military stores ; consisting of brandy, cold roast beef,
half a dozen peck loaves, together with some benches, which we
borrowed from the tap-room ; a large deal table, the same on which
the lieutenant made his famous harangue, and lastly an iron lamp,
with the necessary apparatus for procuring fire. These were con-
veyed in wheelbarrows, and in this gallant order we made our tri-
umphant entry into the castle.
The court having been marked out for the place of encampment,
we pitched our tents between the gate and the drawbridge. A plen-
tiful libation was then made to the god of brandy, whose nostrils must
have been highly regaled with the grateful fumes of incense and
burnt offerings, every hero replenishing his pipe with a potent sup-
ply of India's salutary weed ; and, as our victory in this ghostly
crusade, though unfought, was none the less certain, hymns of tri-
umph were sung beforehand on the occasion.
In proportion as the contents of the brandy-bottle diminished, the
courage and musical disposition of our company increased. We had,
therefore, no need, as on the preceding night, to read ourselves
hoarse, in order to repulse the encroaching advances of sleep. The
wonderful assistance which valour reaps from military music—fifes,
trumpets, drums, and kettle-drums, &c.—is too plain and obvious to
stand in need of any comment or illustration; otherwise, we might
refer our readers to the history of the Lacedaemonians, who, after
suffering repeated defeats from the Messenians, proved at length
victorious,—not by their own inherent valour, or the merit and skill
of their commanders, but by choosing the Athenian songster and
poet, Tyrtseus, for their general ; 'although the said Tyrtaeus cut
but a sorry figure for a militia captain, inasmuch as he was blind of
one eye, lame, and, in fact, passed for little better than an idiot. If
such, then, were the effects produced by one songster, in a whole
army, what must we suppose to have been the case with our brave
troop, consisting, as it did, of vocal performers from first to last ? To
so high a pitch was their valour wound up, by the noble songs which
they rehearsed, not forgetting to whet their whistle, as occasion re-
quired, with plentiful draughts of brandy, that they laughed at3
chal-
40 TUS ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
lenged, and defied, the whole infernal host of hell, with Beelzebub,
their leader, at the head !
It was now within a few minutes of twelve. The lieutenant,
pointing to his watch, beckoned with his hand : instantly the military
concert was suspended ; awful silence succeeded in its place; expec-
tation stood a tiptoe ; and astonishment, mixed with horror, appeared
visibly portrayed in every countenance. Thus we kept our post
till the church-bell began to strike, at which our country boobies
pricked up their ears, and, with gaping mouths, seemed to swallow
the sound. But when they heard the distant dashing of horses*
hoofs, and the thundering echo of trumpets, that followed immedi-
ately upon the last strokes, nothing can convey an adequate idea of
their terror and surprise. They no longer dared to regard one ano-
ther, except with stolen looks ; and had not fear effectually chained
them to their seat, there is little room to doubt but a precipitate flight,
on their part, would soon have deprived us of our worthy comrades
and protectors.
Meanwhile the noise, increasing as it approached, drew nearer and
nearer, and presently was heard distinctly in the subterraneous
apartments of the castle. Suddenly, however, it subsided: all was
perfectly still and silent as before. But, in less than ten minutes,
the uproar returned more powerful than ever; and, swift as light-
ning, though still invisible, retreated the ghostly cavalcade, in full
gallop, from the castle.
The lieutenant, followed by the count and myself, rushed out in
pursuit of them. But though we flew, as it were, upon wings, being
fully determined to gratify our curiosity, it was impossible for us to
discover any other object than the distant glare of some white horses.
We returned, therefore, hopeless and dissatisfied, to our compa-
nions.
These we found, on our entrance into the court, stretched ut like
dead, with their faces to the ground. Table, lamp, benches, wheel-
barrows,—in short, our whole camp-equipage, together with the
brandy-bottle and provisions which we had brought with us, were
gone. The moon, shining but dimly through the opposing clouds,
barely reflected light sufficient to make this discovery. Great, as
THE NEGROMANCER. * 41
may reasonably be supposed, was our astonishment. The lieutenant,
seizing one of our prostrate companions by the shoulders, gave him
two or three hearty shakes, and endeavoured to lift him on his legs;
but this valiant champion, firmly persuaded that he was under the
clutches of some blood-thirsty caco-dsemon, who, in all probability,
wanted to hurry him away, full drive, to the bottomless pit, began to
roar out so lustily, that we had presently the whole troop at their
prayers, each one imploring assistance^ from his favourite saint.
Sancta Mater and Kyrie Eleison, intermixed with groans unutter-
able, resounded from every quarter. The scene was ludicrous be-
yond description, and fully justified the assertion of the Roman
poet
—
" Primus in orbe Deos fecit timor."
After feasting our eyes and ears a full hour at least with the
cowardly devotion of these miserable wretches, we adjourned to the
inn, leaving our companions to celebrate high mass by themselves.
Our landlord was not a little surprised at seeing us return unattended,
and accosted us with at least a thousand questions ; but as we stood
in need of rest, we deferred satisfying his inquisitive curiosity till
morning, and laid ourselves down upon the straw prepared for our
reception.
Our sleep, however, was not of long duration, for no sooner did it
begin to dawn, than the whole village was in an uproar, and young
and old assembled before the inn-door. Our gallant companions, it
seems, with the return of day, had gradually got the better of their
fears, and, venturing at last to look around them, discovered, to their
no small surprise, that we were missing. Whether their grief at our
supposed destruction proceeded from any real regard, or from the
fear of losing the promised gratuity for their faithful services, they
immediately hurried to the inn, and, with dreadful lamentations,
related the disaster that had happened. Laughable was it for us to
hear the various strange and contradictory accounts which they gave
of last night's adventure. Some would have it that we were torn in
pieces; others swore roundly, that they had seen us carried oif by a
whole legion of devils: but all of them were unanimous in bearing
42 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
honourable testimony to their own prowess, and the signal feats of
heroism they had achieved. But what was their surprise at learning
from our landlord, who hitherto had purposely concealed this intel-
ligence from them, that we were not only still in the land of the
living, but had returned triumphant from the ghostly expedition !
At first they refused to give credit to his words/ but, finding him posi-
tive in his assertions, they insisted on being introduced to us imme-
diately. This accordingly took place ; mutual congratulations passed
between us, the promised reward was faithfully distributed, and,
after satisfying our landlord for the loss of his tables, benches, &c,
we began to prepare for our departure. The lieutenant, indeed,
wished still to try his luck once more, and, for that purpose, pro-
posed that we should secret ourselves in the castle the ensuing
night; but to this neither the count nor myself would in any wise
consent.
We sat out, therefore, about seven in the morning, though the
weather was far from favourable, the wind getting exceedingly high,
which, added to the frequent flying showers that passed over us, ren-
dered the air extremely cold and damp. Already were we within
less than a mile of the Black Forest, when I perceived the lieutenant,
who rode on horseback before us, accompanied by his groom, sud-
denly stop short : after a short pause, he turned round his horse's
head, and took a cross direction, towards a small rivulet that flowed
on the left side of the road. Curiosity prompted me to look after
him— I let down the window of the carriage, and discovered an
object that demanded my whole attention.
Regardless of the raging storm and beating rain, that now began
to fall pretty rapidly, sat a hoary-headed hermit, venerable with age,
on the summit of a rock that projected nearly half-way over the
stream. He held in his hands a volume of considerable size, and
seemed entirely absorbed in contemplation. No friendly covering
defended his aged head from the rude inclemency of the storm ; his
grey locks sported with the wind, and, dropping wet with the rain,
watered his back and shoulders: his dress was equally singular,
consisting of a loose robe, or gown, fastened about his Joins with a
leathern girdle, after the manner of the Asiatics, and seemed to pro-
THE NECROMANCER. 43
claim him a native of the east ; at his feet lay a long pilgrim's staff,
an hour-glass, and a knapsack made of tiger's skin.
Struck with surprise at the sight of this extraordinary character, I
instantly quitted the carriage, in order to converse with him ; the count
followed my example. We arrived at the spot just as the lieutenant
began to interrogate him.
" And pray, Mr. Wiseacre, what book is that you are studying so
intensely?"
The sage seemed to take no notice of this question, but continued
to read, without answering a word.
"What book have you there? demanded the lieutenant a second
time, alighting from his horse, placing himself behind the pilgrim,
and endeavouring to look over his shoulder.
Still the sage made no reply, but kept his eyes immovably fixed
upon the book he was reading.
My curiosity was, if possible, still greater than the lieutenant's; I
accordingly stationed myself quite close to the wonderful stranger,
in order to take a nearer view, both of his person and the volume he
held in his hand. The leaves were of yellow parchment, and appa-
rently of great antiquity; the characters bore some resemblance to
the Arabic, and were, as I perceived, drawn with a pen in various
colours, but chiefly in red and gold.
Meanwhile, the count and lieutenant had insensibly engaged the
pilgrim in discourse. The latter giving Mr. Wiseacre, as he termed
him, a shake by the shoulders, and that none of the softest,
repeated, with authoritative voice, his former demand :
—
" What is it you are studying, my friend ?"
The sage seemed evidently disconcerted; knit his brows, and,
slowly raising his head, regarded us a long time with fixed and
silent indignation: then opening his lips, with a voice calculated to
inspire the utmost reverence and awe, replied
—
"Wisdom."
Count. And pray what language is it, then, in which this book is
written ?
Pilgrim. The language of wisdom.
Count. And what is it you call wisdom ?
44 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Pilgrim. Every thing of which thou hast no conception.
Lieutenant Well then, Mr. Wiseacre, that being the case, as you
possess such extraordinary knowledge of things which the rest of
mankind have no conception of, I shall be happy, methinks, to ask
you a question or two.
Pilgrim (viewing him sternly). Ask on.
Lieutenant. Not far from this place stands a village, which is said
to be haunted by a whole troop of devils. The manor-house, it
seems, is their nocturnal place of rendezvous. These gentlemen,
together with myself, have kept watch in the castle these two nights
past
—
Pilgrim (interrupting him). And yet are not a whit the wiser
than before : for thou art not the man to whom wisdom deigns her
hidden lore ; nor is the management of ghosts to thee intrusted.
Lieutenant. That man, we suppose, can be no other than yourself.
Pilgrim. I understand the language of wisdom.
The lieutenant, naturally addicted to raillery, could no longer
refrain from buisting into a loud laugh. Of this the pilgrim took no
manner oi notice; but, returning to his former study, was soon
absorbed in meditation, from which, however, he was again roused
by the count.
" Friend," began the latter, ' as such great wisdom appears to be
contained in the book you read, may we be allowed to ask who those
spirits are, and for what reason they thus infest the above-mentioned
castle ?"
Pilgrim (after a long pause). None but the spirits themselves
dare resolve thee that question.
Count. What, then, does your famous book of wisdom treat of.
Pilgrim. Of the manner in which spirits may be forcibly com-
pelled to appear, and a full confession extorted from them.
Count. How happens it, then, that you have never essayed your
art upon those which disturb the peace of the neighbouring village ?
Pilgrim. Because I have no wish, no interest in the case.
Lieutenant. Well but, Mr. Wiseacre, suppose that we should
make you an offer of our purses; might not money, perhaps, have
some weight in persuading you to make a trial of your skill ?
THE NECROMANCER. 45
Pilgrim (in a violent rage). Mean sordid wretch ! begone—can
gold be deemed equivalent to wisdom.
Lieutenant. What, then, can purchase it ?
Pilgrim. Nothing ! Will your courage stand the test ?
Lieutenant. Were there any doubt of that, we should not have
ventured to keep watch in a place so formidable.
Pilgrim. Well, then, watch one night more : precisely three quar-
ters past eleven you will see me, to a certainty. Meanwhile, leave
me to my meditations.
The peremptory tone and manner in which he pronounced these
words put it out of our power to disobey. —
W
r
e retreated slowly to
our carriage, looking back, almost every minute, at the wonderful
pilgrim, who instantly relapsed into his former study. The lieu-
tenant, as he remounted his horse, proposed that we should return
to the inn, and, putting off our departure till the morrow, give the
stranger the meeting at the time appointed.
Much as 1 disliked the project, it was in vain for me to raise ob-
jections : the curiosity of the count was wound up to its highest
pitch; my consent, therefore, was rather extorted than obtained
from me.
Our landlord, on learning the cause of our return, was little better
than distracted with joy ; for, exclusive of the profits he hoped to
reap from another ghostly frolic, having been paid more than double
the value of his table, benches, &c. lost in our last expedition, his
brain was next kin to turned with the marvellous relations which our
valiant companions gave of the adventure. Nothing was talked of,
but how frightfully the spectres had appeared ; how furiously they
broke in upon us; how they breathed fire and smoke through their
nostrils; with eyes flaming-red, as big as any pint basins: notwith-
standing all which, they had, they said, laid so manfully about them,
that the whole infernal troop was forced to take a precipitate flight,
and were, long before this, ten miles at least below the bottom of
the Red Sea ! Hence, we saw ourselves regarded, by the whole vil-
lage, as beings of a superior order, and had enough to do to answer
all the questions put to us by our admirers. This was highly
pleasing to the lieutenant, who diverted himself, the whole dav, with
4(3 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
practising upon the simplicity of these rustics ; and, I am firmly-
persuaded, told more fortunes in the course of six hours than many
astrologers have an opportunity of doing in the course of as many years.
On the approach of night, we had a numerous army at command,
without being necessitated, as before, to beat up for volunteers;
young and old entreating us to permit them to bear us company :
they neither demanded pay nor provisions; the bare honour of
serving under us was, as they observed, more than sufficient recom-
pense. Company, however, was not what we at present wanted ; not to
mention that we had already but too well experienced what sort of
dependence we ought to place upon their valour and assistance : we
dissembled, therefore, our intentions ; but, finding even this ineffec-
tual to answer our purpose, we were fain, in order to get rid of our
troublesome visitors, to pretend ourselves sleepy, and to order the
straw to be got ready for our reception.
About ten we stole away as privately as possible to the castle. On
our arrival in the court, the lieutenant's servant lighted up the
lamp we had brought with us ; after which we repaired to the hall,
where, finding the benches we had formerly erected for our accom-
modation still standing, we seated ourselves, and waited in anxious
expectation the time appointed for meeting our unknown conductor.
The lieutenant appeared doubtful whether the pilgrim might not
fail of his appointment, and discovered evident symptoms of mis-
trust, that he had no other view in promising to meet us, than
merely to sport with our credulity. But the count, who, from his
youth, had always manifested a strong hankering after the mar-
vellous, was so entirely prepossessed with the venerable appearance
of the hoary-headed sage, that he was ready to pledge his honour for
his punctuality. This gave birth to a curious controversy between
the lieutenant and the count, on the subject of supernatural agency
;
the former ridiculing the whole system as visionary and preposterous,
whilst the latter was firmly of opinion that, however exaggerated
and disguised such accounts might be in the detail, the doctrine
itself was founded in truth and experience. For my part, I cursed
and damned the pilgrim most devoutly, and only wished that we had
never seen nor given ourselves the least trouble about him.
THE NECROMANCER. 47
In this manner did we endeavour to beguile the tedious hour of
expectation. Before us lay our watches placed upon the table, to
which our eyes almost momentarily reverted. The minute-hand had
hardly pointed to three quarters past eleven, when we plainly dis-
tinguished the tread of human footsteps across the passage.
" You are perfectly right, my lord (quoth the lieutenant, addressing
himself to the count), our pilgrim is a man of honour." With these
words he snatched up the lamp, and went to meet him.
Our conductor had now reached the hall. His dress was much
the same as when we first, beheld him, excepting that on his head he
wore a kind of turban, and carried his knapsack strapped about his
shoulders. With slow and solemn steps he approached the place
where we were seated ; then, suddenly stopping short, beckoned
with his hand for us to follow him. We obeyed, and, leaving the
lieutenant's servant fast asleep, behind us, followed him to the stone
staircase at the opposite end of the hall. This we descended, and
next traversed, in awful silence, the long winding passage to which
it led, till we came to the door of the vault, which the lieutenant
had burst open on our first visit to the castle.
Here our conductor again stopped short ; took the lamp out of the
hand of the lieutenant, and, viewing us attentively all round, with a
stern forbidding look, that seemed to presage strange wonders, ad-
dressed us in a trembling tone of voice :
" Let awful silence seal your lips, nor dare
To tempt that fate which prudence bids beware
;
For know one single word makes instant death your share."
The impression which his speech made upon our minds may be
more easily imagined than described. We entered the vault, not
without horror and reluctance ; this time, however, we found the
air of this subterraneous dungeon less noxious and pestilential than
before, owing, probably, to the door having been left open by
the lieutenant, at the time it was forced, as related above. Our
conductor, approaching the folding doors on the right-hand side,
pushed back the large enormous bolts which guarded them with a
degree of ease that well might create astonishment ; then drawing
48 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
forth from his bosom a ponderous key of massy iron, fastened round
his neck by a chain of the same metal, he thrice pronounced a word
of mystic, but to us incomprehensible, meaning :
" And in the keyhole turns
The intricate wards, and every bolt and bar
Unfastens : on a sudden, open fly,
With impetuous recoil and jarring sound,
The infernal doors, and on their hinges grate
Harsh thunder."" »
Horrible, beyond description, was the place into which we now
entered. The form was circular, arched over with brick, and to-
tally impervious to the smallest ray of light from without. Hollow
sounded the ground beneath our feet, and every step we took re-
echoed back distantly from the walls. Facing the entrance, appeared
another pair of folding doors, secured with locks and bolts, more
formidable than the former.
A blue inconstant flame, accompanied with a strong sulphureous
smell that rendered the faculty of breathing extremely difficult,
whilst it enhanced the gloomy horror of the scene, gradually disco-
vered to our view the mouldering monuments of ruin and decay.
Rotten coffins, human bones, ghostly skulls, shrouds, scutcheons,
urns, and a!l the various symptoms of mortality, were seen on every
side. In the middle of the vault arose a lofty bier, which supported
a black leaden coffin, of unusual magnitude. Over it hung a lamp,
dependent from a triple chain of iron.
Our conductor uncovered his head ; we followed his example, and
ranged ourselves, in awful silence, round the coffin, but still at such
a distance, that we could barely touch it with outstretched arms.
Then placing the lamp held in his hands upon the floor, the necro-
mantic sage proceeded to untie his knapsack, from which, together
with the book he was studying when we first set eyes upon him, he
took out a magic wand, composed of three different pieces, which
fastened together in one, by means of joints, like a fishing-rod, and
a tin box filled with red sand.
With this he bestrewed the adjacent parts of the floor ; and, having
THE NECROMANCER. 49
fastened his rod together, described therewith three magic circles,
parallel at equal distances in the sand. The innermost was occu-
pied by the exorcist ; in the second stood the count, the lieutenant,
and myself; the outermost being left empty, probably by way of
defence, or to serve as a rampart, in case the evil spirits should think
proper to meditate any sudden attack upon us. Thus duly armed,
intrenched, and fortified, according to the demoniac system of tactics
—(such of our readers as wish for a fuller account of this science,
are respectfully referred to the famous treatise, De Damonologia,
published by that learned and pious scribe, Joannes Bodinus) —we
held ourselves in readiness against the ghostly invasion.
The sage, crossing his hands over his breast, stood for some mi-
nutes motionless as a statue, with his eyes directed towards heaven,
or at least towards the ceiling of the vault. Suddenly, he appeared
seized with violent convulsions ; the features of his countenance be-
came distorted to a ghastly degree, his eyes began to roll, his brows
•knitted together, in a manner hideous to behold; his teeth chattered
in his head, his hair bristled up like quills upon the fretful porcu-
pine ; in short, every part of his body bore witness to the big feelings
with which his heart seemed ready to burst. Words at length found
their way, but in a language to us quite unintelligible.'—They were
pronounced in a hollow tone of voice, and with surprising vehemence.
He next opened the mystic book, and, with the same continued agi-
tation of face and body, began to read in a kind of half whisper;
the sweat all the time running down his face, as though the iron
hand of death had seized upon him.
The longer the sage continued to read, the more terrible became
his convulsions ; till, at length, unable to contain himself, he flung
the book out of his hand with great violence against the ground.
Immediately the fury of his looks subsided, his eyes ceased to roll,
and his whole frame became more composed. With both his hands
outstretched, and pointing with his wand to the coffin that lay before
us, he again stood motionless as a statue.
The sound of horns and trumpets, with which the whole fabric
now began to shake, proclaimed the arrival of the midnight hunters.
Still the sage continued motionless. The noise drew nearer, and
E
50 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
presently the troop rushed thundering into the court. Still the sage
continued motionless. The next instant we heard them rapidly de-
scending the stone staircase. Inward horror seized upon us : but still
the sage continued motionless. And now the tread of their feet re-
sounded along the narrow winding passage that led to the vault next
us. The sage, with a sudden motion turning himself round in his
circle, waved his magic wand in the air, and all was silent in a mo-
ment.
Thrice, with tremendous voice, the sage pronounced a mystic
word of unknown import; striking each time violently with his
wand against the ground. Earth, heard the^summons, and obeyed.
A sudden flash of lightning shot trembling across the walls, whilst,
thundering in our ears, was heard the dreadful subterraneous peal.
All nature seemed convulsed ; rocked, as with an earthquake, shook
the hollow vault; our lamps, though well supplied with oil, refused
to burn, and, ere the deep-mouthed thunder ceased to roll, we found
ourselves surrounded with midnight darkness.
Soon, however, a faint glimmering light began to diffuse itself
from the centre of the vault, increasing every moment, till the place
was sufficiently illuminated for us to distinguish the surrounding ob-
ject. We now perceived, with horror and astonishment, that this
light proceeded from the inside of the leaden coffin, the lid of which,
gradually lifting up, apparently from some internal force, at length
disclosed to view a human figure, pale and ghostly, clad in a flowing
white garment, stained with blood. With wild disorder in her looks,
she cast her hollow eyes around ; pushed back the long black tresses
of her hair, which, matted with gore, descended below her waist,
and, baring her bosom, pointed to the gaping orifice of a deadly
wound, inflicted beneath her left breast. Drops of blood still
trickled from her pierced heart, and dreadfully resounded her groans
from the vault.
Approaching the other circle with a furious threatening mien, she
seemed preparing to rush upon us. The sage stretched forth his
hand, struck thrice with his wand against the magic boundary, and
instantly the threatening form shrank back.
" Who art thou?" demanded the apparition ; "and by what au-
j 1
Drsi«n.'i bvM Fbfsel ..fez^otin'o H-Mri teargeRa&jB-
AWFUL INVOCATION OF A SPIRIT.
I'CXN
[i
THE .NECROMANCER, 51
thority dare thy unhallowed steps profane the place where spirits
unembodied seek repose ?"
" And who art thou !" replied the sage sternly, and not the least
daunted, " that darest disturb the peace of this ill-fated mansion ?"
" Not I!" howled she, in a lamentable piteous tone of voice;
• not I, but the damned spirit of my husband ! Bear witness, this
accursed steel—displaying a bloody dagger in her right hand—bear
witness, this deep wound, still reeking with my gore ;" here she
again pointed to her breast —" 'tis ive, and lie alone, disturbs the
peace of this whole village ; 'tis he that violates even my repose f
The Sage. But wherefore ?
Spirit. No time was given for repentance : no friendly warning
bade me in haste secure my peace with heaven. Fearless, I pressed the
downy couch ; undreaded and unseen, the dark assassin dealt the
murderous blow. Thus sent with all my sins unpardoned on my
head, I suffer here, awhile, the torments of the purging flame. But
double wrath pursues my murderer, whom the righteous Judge above
has doomed to bear the punishment due to his sins and mine !
The Sage. Unhappy spirit ! betake thyself to rest. By the deep
secrets of yon mystic book ! by that dread power which hell itself
controls ! by all the terrors of the world unknown ! I swear thy rest
shall never be disturbed !
The spirit, making a low bow in token of gratitude, regained the
coffin, where it presently disappeared under the lid, which now re-
turned to its former place. The light that issued from the inside
gradually died away, as the coffin closed, leaving us once more in-
volved in thick impenetrable darkness.
Petrified with horror and amazement, having neither will to stay
nor power to move, we stood a long time senseless and immovable.
At length a dreadful flash of lightning, bursting full in our faces,
ran whizzing: along; the walls, and louder than before rattled the
hoarse rebellious thunder in our ears. Instantaneously our lamps,
self-lighted, began to burn again ; whilst silence once more resumed
its wonted empire around us.
Our conductor hereupon, with great composure, gathered up the
scattered contents of his knapsack, replaced it upon his shoulders,
e 2
52 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
and beckoned, with his hand, for us to follow him. After carefully
relocking the door, and pushing home the bolts, he drew forth from
his pocket a piece of yellow parchment, about six inches square,
and inscribed with the same kind of characters as his book appeared
to be written in. This he laid upon the wings of the folding doors,
in such a manner that it covered both in equal proportions ; then
sealing it at the four corners with red wax, and a large iron seal, he
again pronounced some short mystic sentences, and with his wand
described the emblem of a cross from one end of the door to the
other.
We were now in the empty vault which we had before visited on
our first excursion to the castle. The sage, advancing to the oppo-
site door on the left hand, repeated his mystic ceremonies. The
lock soon yielded to his trusty key. We entered. Our way led
through another winding passage, arched over with brick like the
former, but much wider and longer ; with this additional difference,
that it had six or seven doors, all strongly secured on each side, be-
sides a larger one of massy iron, in which it terminated.
This being likewise opened with great ease, we had next to ascend
a long flight of stone steps : at the top of which, another door, stud-
ded with enormous iron nails, presented itself. Here our conductor
again stopped short, paused a while, and with great solemnity re-
peated his former injunctions respecting' silence, although there
seemed but little need for this precaution, not a single word having
been exchanged between us all the time.
The opening of this door was attended with much greater cere-
mony than any other. We likewise took notice that our conductor,
for this purpose, made use of a different key than he had before em-
ployed : a circumstance which seemed rather ominous to the lieu-
tenant, as I could plainly perceive, by several significant looks which
he cast both at the count and myself. We had, however, gone too
far to recede. A narrow passage, in which it was impossible to stand
upright, conducted us to an iron trap-door, opening upon a second
flight of steps. There we descended, and found ourselves in a
gloomy dungeon of a considerable size ; dark as the shades of mid-
night, and damp as the falling dews, when Sol withdraws his cheer-
THE NECROMANCER. 53
ing rays. Fronting the staircase, and on each side, appeared another
formidable door.
Advancing into the middle of this dismal place, the sage made a
signal for us to range ourselves round him. Hereupon, the ground
was bestrewed with red sand, in which he, as before, described three
magic circles with his wand, and, opening his books, began to read
softly, with great agitation of body. Then throwing his book upon
the ground, he waved his wand in air, turned himself round with
surprising velocity, and thrice pronounced, with a loud and dreadful
voice, the same mystic word which he had formerly made use of.
The whole dungeon instantly appeared on fire : the forked light-
nings, reverberating from the wall, flashed with dreadful impetuosity
in our faces, succeeded with peals of thunder, that seemed to forebode
the total dissolution of nature. Earth felt the potent shock, and
trembled to its centre : all the doors of our prison flew open with a
noise louder than the loudest thunder : above us and around us
shook the Gothic pile, threatening to overwhelm us beneath its ruins.
At the same time, our lamp went out, and in its stead was seen a
blue sulphureous flame hovering over the steps of the stone staircase,
from whence it now began to roll itself down. Hollow groans, and
the dismal clanking of chains, invaded our ears. Terror, beyond
the power of language to describe, laid hold of us.
As the noise drew nearer, the sage placed himself with his face
towards the stone staircase, and soon we saw, with horror inexpressi-
ble, a grim and ghastly figure, of uncommon magnitude, descending
down the steps. A double row of chains were fastened to his feet
and hands, which, rattling at every step he took, grated harsh infer-
nal thunder in our ears. His garment appeared as if it had been
newly dipped in blood ; his right eyeball was forced out of its socket,
and the upper part of his skull was shattered to pieces. Thus, hor-
rible to behold, he approached, with furious mien, the outer circles,
foaming at the mouth, and grinding his teeth like the savage fierce
Hyrcanian tiger. The sage stretched forth his wand, and with au-
thoritative voice addressed the spectre :
" Stay here, accursed
wretch I" he said, "and tell me who thou art ?"
"A spirit of the damned !" replied the spectre, trembling.
a\ THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Sage. Hell, then, is fittest for thee ! What business brings fcbee
hither ?
Spirit. To seek deliverance from its flames.
Sage. On what conditions hopest thou to attain this ?
Spirit. None, none, alas ! except my wife's forgiveness.
Sage. Is that thy only hope ? Then back to hel! —back to thy pro-
per punishment—Away ! fly ! fly with thy infernal troop ; nor ever
more presume to violate the peace of this neighbourhood. Behold
yon mystic book, and tremble !
At these words the sage pointed to the opposite door of the dun-
geon : reluctantly the spectre bowed submission, and retreated. In-
stantly the vault appeared the second time in flames. Louder and
more awful roared the thunder : all the doors fell to with horrible
recoil : dreadful groans resounded in our ears : frightful apparitions
glided along the walls, which, shaking with the deep-mouihed thun-
der, threatened us with immediate destruction.
A scene like this might well strike terror into the stoutest heart.
We remained a long time in a state of stupefaction, from which we
however gradually recovered, as the lightnings ceased to flash, and
the hoarse rebellious thunder abated its fury. The blue sulphureous
flame no longer rolled itself down the stone staircase; darkness
worse than Egyptian enveloped us around, hideous groans and la-
mentations rendering the gloomy silence of the place still more aw-
ful and tremendous.
These likewise gradually dying away, we were, if possible, still
more terrified and alarmed by the hoarse music of the winding horn,
and the dashing of horses' hoofs, which now resounded dreadfully in
the echoing air. Roused by the well-known sound, from the state
of insensibility in which we lay, we discovered with horror our hope-
less situation. Bewildered in a gloomy subterraneous dungeon,
surrounded with impenetrable darkness, and nearly suffocated with
a strong sulphureous vapour that pervaded the place, it tended not a
little to aggravate the horrors of the scene, that each of us, ignorant
of the presence of the rest, supposed himself deserted and alone.
Long time was it before I could recover sufficient fortitude to grope
about me ; nor was I less perplexed which way to steer my doubtful
THE NECROMANCER. 55
course, than the mariner that tosses without compass on the bound-
less deep, whilst night invests the pole, and not a star is seen in the
spacious firmament of heaven.
In this uncertainty I felt myself suddenly seized by the hand.
Reason had not yet resumed her empire over my mind ; my ima-
gination was still too much heated with the strange scenes I had just
witnessed, to form any cool deliberation ; and fancying myself ac-
tually under the influence of enchantment, I started back with a
fearful shriek, not less appalled than if the grisly king of terrors
himself had laid his icy hand upon me !
" Don't be alarmed," exclaimed the well-known voice of the
lieutenant; and instantly my fears fell, like a heavy stone, from my
heart. At the same time, I had the pleasure to hear the count
speak. We presently joined him, and, holding fast by the skirts of
our coats, that we might not be separated again, endeavoured to
grope our way to the staircase.
In this design, after many fruitless attempts, we had at length the
good fortune to succeed. Never did panting lover mount the stair-
case leading to the apartment of his mistress with greater alacrity
than we displayed in climbing up these steps. But how shall I ex-
press the horror and disappointment we experienced on rinding the
trap-door fastened against us ? The lieutenant, who on this as on
all other occasions acted as our leader, after communicating this
unwelcome intelligence, proposed that, instead of giving ourselves
up for lost, we should try our united strength in forcing it open.
Every nerve, accordingly, was strained to accomplish a purpose so
devoutly to be wished, but all in vain ; —the door defied our utmost
efforts.
Equally unsuccessful were we in our endeavours to make ourselves
heard by the lieutenant's servant, whom we had left fast asleep in
the hall on the arrival of the pilgrim, as related before. In vain did
we exalt our voices, till our very throats were hoarse with bawling :
in vain did echo repeat his name, in long reiterated peals, through
the spacious untenanted apartments : in vain, with hands and knees,
did we strike against the iron door, till the blood began to trickle
down with the blows ; —no pleasing sound of human footsteps saluted
our longing ears.
56 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
" Deuce take the lazy rascal !" —exclaimed the lieutenant, tired
with the double fatigue of bawling and thumping against the door
—
" I question whether the last trump itself would be powerful enough
to arouse him ; and we may fairly roar our lungs out at this rate,
without doing any manner of good. Rather let us sit down upon
these steps, and listen till he begins to walk about in search of us, as
no doubt he will do when he awakes, and finds us missing."
This advice was immediately put in execution; though, for my
own part, I must acknowledge that I had little hope of ever seeing
the servant again. I judged it, however, prudent to conceal as much
as possible my suspicions, and the lieutenant, likewise dissembling
his anxiety, began to discourse upon the strange scenes we had just
witnessed ; but, in spite of his utmost efforts, was not able to assume
his wonted gaiety and unconcern. The count and myself made little
or no reply, our thoughts being too much engrossed with the proba-
ble danger of our present situation : the lieutenant soon found it
impossible to disguise his apprehensions any longer ; and in this
miserable state of horror and alarm we continued, as nearly as T can
guess, upwards of an hour, without exchanging a single word. No-
thing but the gentle breath of respiration disturbed the gloomy silence
that reigned around.
Thus things continued, till the natural impetuosity of the lieute-
nant could contain itself no longer ; wherefore, making a fresh at-
tempt to engage us in conversation, he demanded, whether we were
all in a league with his servant, and were sleeping for a wager ?
But though the agitation of our minds effectually repulsed the most
distant advances of sleep, we were equally incapable of joining in
discourse, and, urged by that strong propensity in human nature
which renders man a genuine Heautontimoroumenos,* and inclines
the mind to take a strange delight in tormenting itself, and brooding
over its misfortunes and calamities, we still remained silent for nearly
two hours longer, feasting our troubled thoughts with ideal and an-
ticipated sorrows.
" Damn me, if I hold it out any longer !" exclaimed the lieute-
nant, in a kind of frenzy, " that cursed rascal of mine can never
* The name given to one of Terence's plays. The word is originally Greek,
and signifies a self-tormentor.
THE NECROMANCER. .J7
sleep at such a devil of a rate as this. But were he even as fast as
our great grandfather Adam when his precious rib was taken from
his side, I think I'll manage to open his eyes for him."
With these words he began to stamp and roar, as though his de-
sign had actually been nothing less than to anticipate the day^of
general resurrection. The count and myself, seconding him with
might and main in his pious intentions, joined lustily in the rough
chorus—but all to no purpose ; no answer was returned —no tread
of footsteps could be heard. Exhausted with fatigue, we were fain
to desist ; and, once more seating ourselves upon the stone steps, our
patience was again put to the test, in waiting till the servant should
think proper to awake.
After two or three hours spent in fruitless expectation
—
• I should be very sorry, gentlemen," began the lieutenant,
addressing us in a firm indignant tone of voice, "to torture either
you or myself with groundless apprehensions. But, from the com-
plexion of circumstances, our destruction in this dismal dungeon
appears inevitable. As men, however, who have nothing worse
than what already awaits us to dread, let us borrow hope and courage
from despair ; and rather let us perish in a bold attempt to regain
our liberty, than calmly submit to a lingering death, which resolu-
tion and perseverance may still, perhaps, enable us to escape.
Though this proud door defies our utmost and united efforts, some
other opening may, perhaps, be found ; at least, the chance, at any
rate, is worth the trial."
Without waiting for our reply, the lieutenant began to descend
the steps. We followed his example, and returned to the dismal
dungeon from which we sought to escape. Each taking a different
direction, we groped about in quest of some friendly avenue that
might afford us egress.
In any other situation, the whimsical manner in which we fre-
quently met together might well have excited our risibility. Some-
times we laid hold of each other by the feet and hands, or, running
foul, came tumbling to the ground together. At other times, our
noses me! in rude contact with the opposing wails, or our shins were
58 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
kicked bloody against the loose bricks and rubbish that lay scattered
up and down the place. But all our efforts proved abortive. Faint
and exhausted, I at length stretched myself out upon the ground,
and, more concerned about the safety of the count than my own,
began to load myself with bitter reproaches, for having, through my
indiscreet compliance, precipitated my pupil into inevitable ruin
and destruction, —into the necessity of dying a lingering death in a
subterraneous dungeon.
Meanwhile that I was indulging these disagreeable reflections, the
lieutenant and count continued their researches, as I could easily dis-
tinguish by the sound of their feet, which echoed dreadfully through
the dismal vault. Neither of them spoke a word, but groped about,
for some time, in gloomy and profound silence. At length, the steps
of one of my unhappy comrades ceased to be heard.
" Where are you both?" cried the lieutenant, greatly agitatedand
alarmed.
" For my part, I am here," was the reply ;
—" but where, pray, is
the count ?"
We both joined in calling after him, and roared out at least as
loud and lustily as we had done some hours before in search of the
lieutenant's servant. The count, however, returned no manner of
answer. My fears and apprehensions for his safety were now doubly
increased ; —I was in a condition little short of positive distraction.
Suddenly a hollow rattling noise was heard at some distance, and
instantly a faint glimmering light began to diffuse itself in the corner
of our dungeon.
Transported with this discovery, the lieutenant and myself directed
our steps towards the place from whence the light seemed to proceed.
We found, to our unspeakable joy, one of the iron doors of our prison
open, through which we entered into a long passage, arched over
with brick, at the extremity of which, at a considerable distance,
appeared the welcome light of day. This passage led us by a gradual
descent to a short flight of steps, opening into a spacious apartment,
the flooring of which was broken through near the entrance ; and
through this aperture it was that the light issued. Looking down in
THE NECROMANCER; 59
hopes of making fresh discoveries, we saw with horror the count
stretched at full length upon a heap of mouldering straw, to all
appearance lifeless and insensible.
The height from which he had tumbled might be about fourteen
feet, but, had it been double that number, I should not have hesitated
a moment in jumping after him. The lieutenant followed my exam-
ple, and, seizing fhe count by the arms, we began to shake him
lustily with might and main, till he discovered symptoms of remaining
life. Our joint endeavours soon restored him to a perfect possession
of his faculties ; when it appeared that, the fright excepted, he had
sustained no material injury. From his relation we learnt, that hav-
ing accidentally groped his way to the door on the left hand, and
finding it yield to his push (most probably the lock had failed to fly
back, at the time when the doors of the dungeon shut upon us,
as related before), he continued to descend the passage, till, falling
from the staircase upon the floor of the apartment to which it ]ed,
the rotten boards, not able to sustain his weight, had broken under
him, and thereby precipitated him into the place where we now
found him.
This place, from its present appearance, had most probably been
used iii former times for a stable. It had two round windows in the
wall, secured with iron gratings, through which the light could barely
find admission. We perceived a wooden door in one corner, against
which we pushed with our united efforts, and presently the rotten
boards fell tumbling in pieces at our feet.
A hollow subterraneous passage conducted us by a gradual ascent
to a trap-door, which opened into the garden at the back of the castle.
Our joy at once more beholding the welcome face of day is beyond
the power of language to describe ; we embraced each other with the
most transporting ardour, and mutual congratulations on our narrow
escape from the jaws of death; and, being already sufficiently ac-
quainted with the walks of the garden, which we explored on our
first visit to the castle, we easily regained the hall, where we had
left the lieutenant's servant fast asleep the preceding night. Table
and benches wfre still standing, but no signs of John could we pos-
sibly discover.
60 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
" The fellow, no doubt, has made his escape to the inn !" was the
lieutenant's opinion, after we had in vain made every apartment of
the castle echo with his name. We accordingly posted back to the
inn, thanking God that he had not punished our curiosity more
severely, as we took our leave of the haunted castle.
On our arrival at the inn, we found our landlord encompassed with
a whole troop of the inhabitants of the village, who, it seems, had
come to inquire after us ; the ghosts having made such a horrible
uproar in the place the preceding night, that they all, with one
accord, gave us up for lost, and almost dreaded to inquire after our
fate. Great, therefore, was their astonishment at seeing us enter so
suddenly into their midst. Every one, as with common consent, put
his hand to his hat, and reverently bade us welcome, falling foul upon
us, at the same time, with an infinite multitude of questions relative
to last night's adventures. This time, however, the lieutenant had
little inclination to divert himself with practising upon their simpli-
city ; his answers were short and unsatisfactory, and, turning round to
the landlord, he endeavoured to put an end to their impertinence
by inquiring after his servant.
" I have seen nothing of him since yesterday," was the reply.
" Are the horses safe r" demanded the lieutenant.
"As safe and well as good stabling and the best of corn can make
them : it is hardly ten minutes since 1 fed them myself."
With a look that sufficiently indicated his surprise and embarrass-
ment, the lieutenant regarded us steadfastly all round ; then addressing
himself to the peasants, he offered them a handsome reward to explore
the neighbourhood in search of his servant. Every one testified his
readiness to serve him, and eagerly sat out in the pursuit ; but, after
a long and fruitless search, they all returned with the unwelcome
intelligence, that no traces of him were to be found.
As we had no hopes of seeing the lost fugitive any more, and were
by no means willing to repeat our visits to the haunted castle, we
resolved to pursue our journey immediately after dinner, and accord-
ingly gave the necessary orders for our departure. At parting, our
landlord and the peasants could not refrain from tears, so much were
they prepossessed in our favour ; we made them a decent present to
THE NECROMANCER. 61
drink our healths, and set off with the good wishes of the whole
neighbourhood.
The lieutenant being better acquainted with the Black Forest than
ourselves, undertook to lead the way : we followed his guidance, and
soon cleared this terrible desert, without meeting with any fresh
adventures. The following evening he took his leave of us, being in
haste to rejoin the party to which he belonged. We parted with the
utmost reluctance, and with mutual assurances of friendship and
esteem. As he gave us his hand, " Accept, gentlemen (he began),
my sincerest thanks for your faithful assistance and co-operation in
encountering the most dreadful adventure I ever yet had occasion to
experience in the whole course of my life. Should I ever be so for-
tunate as to obtain any further light respecting this intricate affair
(and you may rest assured that 1 will exert my utmost endeavours to
obtain satisfactory information, at some future period), I shall consi-
der it my duty to communicate the particulars to you. On your side
1 request the same, incase you should be beforehand with me in your
discoveries : meanwhile, accept of my best wishes, and whenever
you call to mind the twenty-third of September, 1750, let the Danish
lieutenant have a place likewise in your remembrance."
Founded on fact, and sanctioned by experience, it is to be hoped
that this history will meet with a more favourable reception than
exploded romances of giants and enchanters, than fairy tales of
Persian fables ; which, by being destitute of probability as well as
truth, must prove insipid and disgusting to every reader of sentiment
and taste. For, if any thing can render greater interest to a narrative,
it is the conviction that such things have actually occurred.
62
ILLUSTRATION, No. II.
TEE SCENE OF THE INCANTATION.
CIRCLE I.—PART II.
®J)£ ©ale of Wtx dfrtterfiutj.
FROM THE GERMAN.
The chief personages in this remarkable tale, are Bertram, an old
forester of Linden ; Anne, his wife ; Kate, their daughter ; William,
her sweetheart ; Robert, his rival ; a mysterious stranger, with a
wooden leg; and the devil. Bertram is in the vassalage of Duke
somebody, and possesses a farm, which has been in the family for
more than two hundred years. The farm was first granted to one
Kuno, Bertram's greatgrandfather's father, as a reward for his hav-
ing performed an extraordinary feat as a marksman. This dexterity
brought upon Kuno the envy and ill-will of his neighbours ; from
which, it seems, the world was just as wicked two hundred years ago
as it is at thcrpresent time. Well, these abominable neighbours did
THE NECROMANCER. 63
what many of our own neighbours would do under similar circum-
stances ; they endeavoured to persuade the duke that Kuno's shot
had hit the mark through witchcraft and black arts. So hereupon a
regulation was made, and from this the custom came, that every
descendant of Kuno must undergo a trial, and fire what they call his
probationary shot, before he is admitted tenant.
Bertram, having no son, naturally looked forward to some clever
fellow for a son-in-law, laying it down as a law, that the being a good
shot was an indispensable qualification in him who should hope to
become the husband of his daughter. In looking round, as all pru-
dent fathers ought to do, for such an appendage to Kate's comforts
(we consider it highly improper to leave these matters to the daugh-
ters themselves), his glance fell upon Robert the hunter, and—there
it rested. Well, Robert was to be the husband, and would have been,
but for one trifling circumstance. Kate was in love with somebody
else (oh ! the vile creature), and this somebody else was William, the
bailiff's clerk.
William's talent lay in driving a quill, but Bertram wanted a man
who could drive a bullet—poor Kate wanted a husband. Bertram
was incorrigible on the subject of a marksman. ie
But," said he,
** ifs not altogether Robert that I care about. I don't stand upon
trifles : and, if the man is not to your taste or the girl's, why look
out any other active huntsman that may take my office betimes, and
give us a comfortable fire-side in our old age—Robert or not Robert,
so that it be a lad of the forest ;" and, taking his gun, off he trudged
to the forest. This was a very necessary measure, in order to avoid
the long arguments of Anne in favour of her daughter and William.
Scarcely had he turned the corner of the house, when a rosy light-
haired face looked in at the door. It was Katherine : smiling and
blushing, she stopped for a moment in agitation, and said :
—" Have
you succeeded, mother ? was it yes, dear mother ?" Then, bound-
ing into the room, she fell on her mother's neck for an answer.
" Ah, Kate, be not too confident when thou shouldst be prepared
for the worst : thy father is a good man, as good as ever stepped, but
he has his fancies ; and he is resolved to give thee to none but a hun-
64 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
ter : he has set his heart upon it ; and he'll not go from his word ; I
know him too well."
Katherine wept, and vowed she would rather die than part from
her William ; whilst her mother comforted and scolded her by turns,
and at length ended by joining her tears to her daughter's. At this
moment, in stepped William himself, who was soon told Bertram's
determination relative to his future son-in-law ; and, for the first
time, learned that the old man, simply with a view to the reversionary
interest in his place as forester, insisted on Kate's looking out for a
husband who understood hunting. William now explained to them
that he had formerly been apprenticed to his uncle, Finsterbuch, the
forester-general ; " and," said he, " if your father wants a huntsman,
let me die if I wont quit my clerkship this instant, and take to my
gun and the forest."
This declaration pleased the mother and daughter exceedingly,
and off William started to find out Bertram, and make known to him
his determination. This he appears to have done most effectually
;
for, on the old man's return, he exclaimed, " Upon my soul, but
this William's a fine fellow ! Who the deuce would have ever looked
for such a good shot in the flourisher of a crow-quill ? Well,
to-morrow I shall speak with the bailiff myself, for it would be a sad
pity if he were not to pursue the noble profession of hunting."
In a fortnight, William, who had acquitted himself so well in the
capacity of a huntsman, received Bertram's formal consent to his
marriage with Katherine. This promise, however, was to be kept
secret until the day of the probationary shot. As this important day
approached, William began to fail in his skill as a marksman ; and,
though he redoubled his attention and diligence, he nearly missed
every shot. An old huntsman, called Rudolph, swore there was a
spell in the affair. This opinion was laughed at; "but," said
Rudolph, " take my word for it, William, it is just what I tell you.
Go some Friday at midnight to a cross-road, and make a circle round
about you with a ramrod or a bloody sword; bless it three times in
the same words the priest uses, but in the name of Samiel"
—
"Hush!" interrupted the forester angrily: "dost know what
THE NECROMANCER. 63
that name is ? why, he's one of Satan's host. God keep thee and all
Christians out of his power!"
William crossed himself, and would hear no more ; but Rudolph
persisted in his opinion. All night long he continued to clean his
gun, to examine the screws, the spring, and every part of the lock
and barrel ; and, at break of day, he sallied forth to try his luck once
more. But all in vain : his pains were thrown away, and so were his
bullets. Cursing his hard fate, he threw himself despondingly be-
neath a tree ; at that moment a rustling was heard in the bushes, and
out limped an old soldier with a wooden leg.
" Good morning to you, comrade," said the soldier, " why so
gloomy, why so gloomy? Is it body or purse that's ailing, —health
or wealth is it that you're sighing for ? Or has somebody put a charm
upon your gun ? Come, give us a bit of tobacco ; and let's have a
little chat together."
With a surly air, William gave him what he asked for, and the
soldier threw himself by his side on the grass. The conversation
fell on hunting, and William related his own bad luck. " Let me
see your gun," said the soldier. " Ah ! I thought so : this gun has
been charmed, and you'll never get a true aim with it again: and,
more than that, let me tell you, if the charm was laid according to
the rules of art, you'll have no better luck with any other gun you
take in hand."
William shuddered ; but the stranger offered to bring the question
to a simple test. " Now, here," said he, " for instance, is a ball that
cannot fail to go true ; because it's a gifted ball, and is proof against
all the arts of darkness. Just try it now. I'll answer for it."
William loaded his piece, and levelled at a large bird of prey, which
hovered at an immense height above the forest, like a speck. He
fired : the black speck was seen rapidly descending, and a great vul-
ture fell bleeding to the ground.
" Oh ! that's nothing at all," said the soldier, observing the
speechless astonishment of his companion, "not worth speaking of.
It's no such great matter to learn how to cast balls as good as these :
little more is wanted than some slight matter of skill, and a stout
heart ; for the work must be done in the night. I'll teach you and
F
66 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
welcome, if we should meet again. Meantime, here's a few braces
of my balls for you," and, so saying, he limped off. Filled with
astonishment, William tried a second of the balls, and again he hit
an object at an incredible distance : he then charged with his ordi-
nary balls, and missed the broadest and most obvious mark. On this
second trial, he determined to go after the old soldier; but the sol-
dier had disappeared in the depths of the forest.
In a few days, William had so familiarized himself to the use of
his enchanted balls, that he no longer regarded them with those mis-
givings which he had at first felt in firing them. But his stock of
balls was at length exhausted, and day after day he watched with
intense anxiety for his old acquaintance, the soldier, with the wooden
leg, or rather for the wooden leg with a soldier on it. His search,
however, was without success. Nobody of whom he inquired had
seen any such man as he had described. " Be it so, then !" said
William internally ; " the days that remain for my purpose are num-
bered. This very night I will go to the cross-road in the forest. It
is a lonely spot ; nobody will be there to witness my nocturnal
labours: and 1*11 take care not to quit the circle till my work is
done."
William provided himself with lead, bullet-mould, coals, and all
other requisites, that he might be enabled to slip out of the house
after supper; but the old forester prevented him from leaving the
house that evening. The second night came, but, unfortunately, an
uncle of William's came also, so that he was again prevented from
going to the forest on his proposed awful expedition. As the clock
struck twelve, he was reminded, with horror, of the business he had
neglected. " Just one night more," thought he, " one single night
remains ; to-moTrow, or never !" His violent agitation did not escape
his uncle's notice; but the old man ascribed it to some little weari-
ness in his nephew, and good-naturedly apologized for having engaged
him so long in conversation, by pleading his early departure, which
he could not possibly put off beyond the first dawn of the next
morning.
The third night came. Whatever was to be done must be done,
for the next was the day of trial. From morning to night had old
THE NECROMANCER. 67
Anne, with her daughter Kate, bustled about the house, to make
arrangements for the suitable reception of her dignified guest, the
commissioner. At nightfall every thing was ready. Anne embraced
William on his return from the forest, and, for the first time, saluted
him with the endearing name of son. The eyes of Kate sparkled
with the tender emotions of a youthful bride. The table was decked
with festal flowers, and viands more luxurious than usual were
brought out by the mother.
"This night," said Bertram, "we will keep the bridal feast:
to-morrow we shall not be alone, and cannot, therefore, sit so con-
fidentially and affectionately together; let us be happy then—as happy
as if all the pleasures of our lives were to be crowded into this one
night."
This was, no doubt, an exceedingly pleasant arrangement to every
body, except William. The clock struck nine. William's heart beat
violently. He sought for some pretext for withdrawing, but in vain :
what pretext could a man find for quitting his young bride on their
bridal festival ? Time flew faster than an arrow : in the arms of love,
that should have crowned him with happiness, he suffered the pangs
of martyrdom. Ten o'clock was now past, and the decisive moment
was at hand. Without taking leave, William stole from the side of
his bride : already he was outside the house, with his implements of
labour, when old Anne came after him. " Whither away, William,
at this time of night ?" asked she, anxiously. " I shot a deer, and
forgot it in my hurry," was the answer. In vain she begged him to
stay : all her entreaties were flung away, and even the tender
caresses of Kate, whose mind misgave her, that some mystery lay
buried in his hurry and agitation. William tore himself from them
both, and hastened to the forest. The moon was in the wane, and,
at this time, was rising, and resting with a dim red orb upon the hori-
zon. Gloomy clouds were flying overhead, and at intervals darkened
the whole country, which, by fits, the moon again lit up. The sil-
very birches and the aspen trees rose like apparations in the forest
;
and the poplars seemed to William's fevered visions pale shadowy
forms that beckoned him to retire.
He stepped forwards with long strides; the wind drove the agi-
f2
68 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
tated clouds again over the face of the moon, and William plunged
into the thickest gloom of the forest.
At length he stood upon the crossway. At length the magic
circle was drawn, the skulls were fixed, and the bones were laid
round about. The moon buried itself deeper and deeper in the
clouds ; and no light was shed upon the midnight deed, except from
the red lurid gleam of the fire, that waxed and waned by fits, under
the gusty squalls of the wind. A remote church-clock proclaimed
that it was now within a quarter of eleven. William put the ladle
upon the fire, and threw in the lead, together with three bullets,
which had already hit the mark once, a practice amongst those who
cast the " fatal bullets," which he remembered to have heard men-
tioned in his apprenticeship. In the forest was now heard a patter-
ing of rain. At intervals came flitting motions of owls, bats, and
other light-shunning creatures, scared by the sudden gleams of the
fire ; some, dropping from the surrounding boughs, placed themselves
on the magic circle, where, by their low dull croaking, they seemed
holding dialogues, in some unknown tongue, with the dead men's
skulls. Their numbers increased ; and amongst them were in-
distinct outlines of misty forms, that went and came, some with
brutal, some with human faces. Their vapoury lineaments fluctuated
and obeyed the motions of the wind. One only stood unchanged,
and like a shadow near to the circle, and settled the sad light of its eyes
steadfastly upon William. Sometimes it would raise its pale hands,
and seem to sigh ; and, when it raised its hands, the fire would burn
more sullenly ; but a gray owl would then fan with his wings, and
rekindle the decaying embers. William averted his eyes ; for the
countenance of his buried mother seemed to lookout from the cloudy
figure, with piteous expressions of unutterable anguish. Suddenly
it struck eleven, and then the shadow vanished, with the action of
one who prays and breathes up sighs to heaven. The owls and the
night-ravens flitted croaking about ; and the skulls and bones rattled
beneath their wings. William kneeled down on his coaly hearth;
and, with the last stroke of eleven, out fell the first bullet.
In this way William proceeded to cast sixty-three bullets, that
beingthe number necessary to complete the charm. With each bullet
THE SE V K >'T LI B V L LET
DIEIEi IPaEISCffiTIJirZ .
77./A' QF THE INCANTATION*
Landon, William Charlton Wn^lit . 65. Pater NostervRow
THE NECROMANCER. 69
the horror of the scene increased ; and, as the last was thrown out of
the mould, the owls threw the skulls and bones confusedly together,
and flew away ; the fire went out ; and William sank exhausted to
the ground.
Now came up slowly a horseman upon a black horse. He stopped
at the effaced outline of the magic circle, and spoke thus :
" Thou
hast stood thy trial well : what wouldst thou have of me ?"
" Nothing of thee, nothing at all," said William :
" what I want,
I have prepared for myself."
" Aye, but with my help : therefore, part belongs to me."
"By no means, by no means: I bargained for no help; I sum-
moned thee not."
The horseman laughed scornfully; "Thou art boldeV," said he,
" than such as thou art wont to be. Take the balls which thou hast
cast: sixty for thee, three for me ; the sixty go true, the three go
askew : all will be plain, when we meet again."
William averted his face :
" I will never meet thee again," said he
—" leave me."
" Why turnest thou away ?" said the stranger, with a dreadful
laugh :
" dost know me ?"
"No, no," said William, shuddering: " I know thee not! I wish
not to know thee. Be thou who thou mayest, leave me !"
William returned home dreadfully frightened; but he was now in
possession of the balls, which, with the exception of Kate, was all he
seemed to stand in need of. The day at length dawned on which
William was to shoot for the prize. The ducal commissioner arrived,
and proposed a little hunting-excursion with the young forester, pre-
vious to the ultimate trial of his skill. The party set out, and William
acquitted himself most honourably.
The hunting-party returned. The commissioner was inexhaustible
in William's praise. " After such proofs of skill," said he, "it seems
ridiculous that I should call for any other test : but, to satisfy old
ordinances, we are sometimes obliged to do more than is absolutely
needful ; and so we will despatch the matter as briefly as possible.
Yonder is a dove sitting on that pillar : level, and bring her down."
" Oh ! not that—not that, for God's sake, William," cried
70 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Katherine, hastening to the spot, " shoot not, for God's sake, at the
dove. Ah ! William, last night I dreamed that I was a white dove ;
and my mother put a ring about my neck ; then came you, and in a
moment my mother was covered with blood."
William drew back his piece, which he had already levelled : but
the commissioner laughed. " Eh, what ?" said he, " so timorous ?
That will never do for a forester's wife : courage, young bride, cou-
rage ! —Or stay, may be the dove is a pet dove of your own ?"
" No," said Katherine, but the dream has sadly sunk my spirits."
" Well, then," said the commissioner, " if that's all, pluck 'em up
again ! and so fire away, Mr. ForesteT."
He fired: and at the same instant, with a piercing shriek, fell
Katherine to the ground.
" Strange girl," said the commissioner, fancying that she had
fallen only from panic, and raised her up : but a stream of blood
flowed down her face ; her forehead was shattered ; and a bullet lay
sunk in the wound.
" What's the matter?" exclaimed William, as the cry resounded
behind him. He turned, and saw Kate, with a deadly paleness, lying
stretched in her blood. By her side stood the old wooden-leg, laugh-
ing in fiendish mockery, and snarling out—'* Sixty go true, three go
askew." In the madness of wrath, William drew his hanger, and
made a thrust at the hideous creature. " Accursed devil !" cried he,
in tones of despair, "is it thus thou hast deluded me ?" More he
had no power to utter ; for he sank insensible to the ground, close by
his bleeding bride.
The commissioner and the priest sought vainly to speak comfort to
the desolate parents. Scarcely had the aged mother laid the ominous
funeral garland upon the bosom of her daughter's corpse, when she
swept away the last tears of her unfathomable grief. The solitary
father soon followed her. William, the fatal marksman, wore away
his days in a madhouse.
THE NECROMANCER. 71
AWFUL APPEARANCE OF AN* EVIL SPIRIT TO THE LADY
OF THE CONSTABLE OF FRANCE.
In the Duke of Sully's Memoirs, book the tenth, there is a very
remarkable account concerning the lady of the constable of France,
then (in the year 1595) in the flower of her age, and supposed to be
one of the most beautiful women in Europe. The account was given
by several ladies who were then at her house.
She was conversing cheerfully with them in her closet, when one
of her women came in, who seemed to be under great emotion, and
said, " My lady, a gentleman is just entering your antechamber, who
is very tall, and quite black, and desires to speak with you. He
says it is about affairs of great consequence, which he cannot com-
municate to any but you."
At every circumstance relating to this extraordinary courier, which
the woman was ordered to describe minutely, the lady was seen to
turn pale, and was so oppressed with horror, that she was hardly
able to tell her woman to entreat the gentleman, in her name, to
defer his visit to another time. This message she delivered ; but he
answered in a tone which filled her with astonishment, ** If your lady
will not come to me, I will go and seek her in her closet." At last
she resolved to go to him, but with all the marks of dismay and
deep despair.
In a short time she returned to her company, bathed in tears, and
half dead with dismay. She was able only to speak a few words to
take leave of them, particularly the three ladies who were her friends,
and to assure them she should never see them more.
That instant she was seized with exquisite pains—all her beauty
was gone—every feature of her face was changed, and she became a
spectacle of horror. At the end of three days she died, in the ut-
most agonies both of body and mind.
Of this story (the duke gravely adds) the wise thought as they
ought to think ! —Suppose the story to be true ; suppose it be related
just as it occurred (and there is no shadow of reason to imagine the
contrary), all wise men ought to think, that God permitted an evil
spirit to put an end to the life of an evil woman.
72
ILLUSTRATION, No. III.
CIRCLE I.—SECT. II.
OR THE UNHALLOWED SEPULCHRE;
A Supernatural Romance, by Mr. Maturin. *
The foundation of the extraordinary production on which the
drama of Valmondi is built, is as remarkable as the superstructure
itself. A passage in one of Maturin's Sermons runs thus : " At this
* A drama has been founded upon this tale, but our artist has eclipsed the scene-
painter and property-man. The demon in the original tale is described as ascend-
ing with his victim imperceptibly beyond the bounds of vision. No egress from
the apartment could possibly have been effected ;
yet "When his associates
hastened together to the apartment, it was empty—not a vestige of its last inha-
bitant remained."—Ed.
THE NECROMANCER. 73
moment is there one of us present, however we may have departed
from the Lord, disobeyed his will, and disregarded his word, —is
there one of us who would, at this moment, accept all that man
could bestow, or earth afford, to resign the hope of his salvation ?
There is not one—not such a fool on earth, were the Enemy of Man-
kind to traverse it with the offer.'
'
This passage, it seems, suggested the idea of a powerful and not
sufficiently known, or duly appreciated novel,—Melmoth the Wan-
derer,—a work abounding with transcendent beauty, both of con-
ception, of imagery, and of language : containing episode of cha-
racter and intensity of interest, scarcely, if at all, to be equalled in
the wide, circle of romance ;
pictures of actual life nowhere to be
found of equal and fearful effect. The novel itself possesses, to our
best feelings, something of a still more imperative nature : its author,
an exemplary, and we are bound to believe, a respected functionary
of our religion, states distinctly in his preface, that he is compelled
to write novels to insure the means of subsistence, denied him by the
imposed poverty of his profession !
On Melmoth, as Maturin has produced it, is founded a busy,
showy, most expensive, and, we are bound to say, an effective drama,
which the management of the Adelphi Theatre has christened Val-
mondi.
The story hinges on the fearful, although somewhat hacknied cir-
cumstance in dramatic concerns, of an ambitious and self-willed
mortal exchanging his eternal welfare for temporal power, and the
uncontrolled means of enjoyment, by a league with the Arch Enemy,
The main incidents of Melmoth are necessarily violently compressed
in order to condense a story occupying four volumes into an enter-
tainment of three hours, and for the character of originality, which,
with all our liking of the Adelphi Theatre's version, and our warmest
good wishes, we consider need not have been so anxiously sought :
it is, however, obtained, and most successfully, and three hours of
more rational and glowing delight can nowhere, perhaps, be spent
in the presence of dramatic horrors, than in this splendid little the-
atre.
It would be difficult to give, within our limits, even a complete
sketch, however slight, of this story, and with our splendid engrav-
74 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
ing, closely representing the last scene, and some extracts from the
original story, in the glowing and energetic language of Maturin
himself. The first of these is one which most impressively describes
the presence of the infernal spirit in the person of the condemned
and self-immolated victim. The scene is a bridal feast. " The ce-
remony which Father Olavida had just been performing, had cast a
shade over the good father's countenance, which dispersed as he
mingled among the guests. Room was soon made for him, and he
happened accidentally to be seated opposite the Englishman (with
Maturin, the victim of the Evil One). As the wine was presented to
him, Father Olavida, a man of singular sanctity, prepared to utter a
short internal prayer. He hesitated—trembled—desisted ; and,
putting down the wine, wiped the drops from his forehead with the
sleeve of his habit. His lips moved, as if in the effort to pronounce a
benediction on the company, but the effort again failed, and the
change in his countenance was so fearful, that it was perceived by
all the guests. So strong was the anxiety with which the company
watched him, that the only sound heard in that spacious and crowded
hall was the rustling of his habit, as he attempted to lift the cup to
his lips once more in vain. The guests sat in astonished silence.
Father Olavida alone remained standing ; but at that moment the
Englishman rose, and appeared determined to fix Olavida's regards
by a gaze like that of fascination. Olavida rocked, reeled, grasped
the arm of a page, and at last, closing his eyes for a moment, as if
to escape the horrible fascination of that unearthly glare (the Eng-
lishman's eyes were observed by all the guests, from the moment of
his entrance, to effuse a most fearful and preternatural lustre), ex-
claimed, ' Who is among us ? Who ? I cannot utter a blessing
while he is here: I cannot feel one. Where he treads, the earth is
parched! where he breathes, the air is fire ! where he feeds, the food
is poison ! where he turns, his glance is lightning ! Who is among
us? Who? repeated the priest, in the agony of adjuration, while
his cowl fallen back, his few thin hairs around the scalp seemed
alive with terrible emotion, his outspread arms, protruded from the
sleeves of his habit, and extended towards the awful stranger, sug-
gested the idea of an inspired being in the dreadful rapture of de-
nunciation. He stood, still stood, and the ljhglishman, that unearthly
THE NECROMANCER. 75
being, stood calmly opposite him. Who knows him V exclaimed
OJavida, starting apparently from a trance : who knows him ? who
brought him here ?"
" The guests severally disclaimed all knowledge of the extraordinary
visitor, and each asked the other in whispers, who had brought him
there ? Olavida then pointed his arm to each of the company, and
asked him individually, 'Do you know him?* * No ! no! no!'
was uttered with vehement emphasis by each individual. ' But I
know him,' screamed Olavida, * by these cold drops !'
and he
wiped them off ; * by these convulsed joints !' and he attempted to
sign the cross, but could not. He raised his voice, and, evidently
speaking with increased difficulty, * By this bread and wine, which
the faithful receive as the body and blood of Christ, but which his
presence converts into matter as viperous as the foam of the dying
Judas,—by all these I know him, and command him to be gone /
He is he is' and he bent forwards as he spoke, and gazed
on the Englishman with an expression which the mixture of rage,
hatred, and fear, rendered terrible. All the guests rose in affright
and terror at these words : the whole company now presented two
singular groups, that of the amazed guests all collected together,
and repeating, * Who, what is he ?' and that of the terrific and
unearthly Englishman, who still stood unmoved, and seemingly im-
movable as a rock ; and Olavida himself, who dropped dead in the
attitude of pointing to him."
Another passage, which our engraving illustrates, will sufficiently
elucidate our observations on this extraordinary piece : in the drama,
it produces a stage effect really unique, and, for the extent of the
theatre, we should speak but lightly of its merits, were we to stop
when we say it is unprecedented in its splendour, and unrivalled in
its effect.
" At the sound of their approach, he half started up, and demanded
what was the hour. They told him. '
My hour is come,' said the
wanderer ;
* it is an hour you must neither partake nor witness : the
clock of eternity is about to strike, but its knell must be unheard by
mortal ears !' As he spoke they approached nearer, and saw with
horror the change the last few hours had wrought on him. The
76 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
fearful lustre of his eyes had been deadened before their late inter-
view ; but now the lines of extreme age were visible in every feature.
His hairs were as white as snow, his mouth had fallen in, the mus-
cles of his face were relaxed and withered,—he was the very image
of hoary decrepit debility. He started himself at the impression
which his appearance visibly made on the intruders. * You see
what I feel,' he exclaimed ; 'the hour then is come. I am sum-
moned, and I must obey the summons—my master has other work
for me! .Men, retire ! leave me alone. Whatever noises you hear
in the course of the awful night that is approaching, come not near
this apartment, at peril of your lives. Remember,' raising his voice,
which still retained all its powers, ' remember, your lives will be
the forfeit of your desperate curiosity. For the same stake I risked
more than life, and lost it ! Be warned, and retire !' They re-
tired, and passed the remainder of that day without even thinking
of food, from that intense and burning anxiety that seemed to prey
on their very vitals. At night they retired, and, though each lay
down, it was without a thought of repose : repose, indeed, would
have been impossible ! The sounds that soon after midnight began
to issue from the apartment of the wanderer, were at first of a de-
scription not to alarm, but they were now exchanged for others of
indescribable horror. In a short time, the sounds became so terri-
ble, that scarcely had the awful warning of the wanderer power to
withhold them from attempting to burst into the room. These noises
were of a mixed and most indescribable kind. They could not dis-
tinguish whether they were the shrieks of supplication, or the yell of
blasphemy : they hoped inwardly they might be the former. To-
wards morning the sounds suddenly ceased ; they were stilled as in a
moment. The silence that succeeded seemed to them, for a few mo-
ments, more terrible than all that preceded. After consulting each
other by a glance, they hastened together to the apartment. They
entered ! —IT WAS EMPTY!—Not a vestige of its last in-
habitant REMAINED, OR WAS TO BE TRACED WITHIN."
77
ILLUSTRATION, No. IV
CIRCLE I.—SECT. III.
3Ltfe in ©eatf) ; or, t&e £pectit WLiit.
A gentleman of Bavaria, of a noble family, was so afflicted at the
death of his wife, that, unable to bear the company of^ any other
person, he gave himself entirely up to a solitary way of living.
r
This
was the more remarkable in him, as he had been a man of jovial
habits, fond of his wine and visitors, and impatient of having his
numerous indulgences contradicted. But in the same temper, per-
haps, might be found the cause of his sorrow; for, though he would
be impatient with his wife, as with others, yet he loved her, as one
of the gentlest wills he had ; and the sweet and unaffected "face which
she always turned round upon his anger might have been a thing
more easy for him to trespass upon while living, than to forget when
dead and gone. His very anger towards her, compared with that
towards others, was a relief to him: and rather a wish to refresh
78 THE ASTROLOOER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
himself in the balmy feeling of her patience, than to make her un-
happy herself, or to punish her, as some would have done, for that
virtuous contrast to his own vice.
But, whether he bethought himself, after her death, that this was
a very selfish mode of loving; or whether, as some thought, he had
wearied out her life with habits so contrary to her own ; or whether,
as others reported, he had put it to a fatal risk by some lordly piece
of self-will, in consequence of which she had caught a fever on the
cold river during a night of festivity : he surprised even those who
thought that he loved her, by the extreme bitterness of his grief. The
very mention of festivity, though he was patient for the first day or
two, afterwards threw him into a passion of rage ; but, by degrees,
even his rage followed his other old habits. He was gentle, but ever
silent. He ate and drank but sufficient to keep him alive ; and used
to spend the greater part of the day in the spot where his wife was
buried.
He was going there one evening, in a very melancholy manner,
with his eyes turned towards the earth, and had just entered the rails
of the burial-ground, when he was accosted by the mild voice of
somebody coming to meet him. " It is a blessed evening, Sir," said
the voice. The gentleman looked up. Nobody but himself was
allowed to be in the place at that hour ; and yet he saw, with
astonishment, a young chorister approaching him. He was going
to express some wonder, when, he said, the modest though assured
look of the boy, and the extreme beauty of his countenance, which
glowed in the setting sun before him, made an irresistible addition to
the singular sweetness of his voice ; and he asked him, with an
involuntary calmness, and a gesture of respect, not what he did there,
but what he wished. '* Only to wish you all good things," answered
the stranger, who had now come up ; " and to give you this letter."
The gentleman took the letter, and saw upon it, with a beating yet
scarcely bewildered heart, the hand-writing of his wife. He raised
his eyes again to speak to the boy, but he was gone. He cast them
far and near round the place, but there were no traces of a passenger.
He then opened the letter, and, by the divine light of the setting sun,
read these words :
THE NECROMANCER. 79
" To my dear husband, who sorrows for his wife.
" Otto, my husband, the soul you regret so is returned. You will
know the truth of this, and be prepared with calmness to see it, by
the divineness of the messenger who has passed you. You will find
me sitting in the public walk, praying for you ;
praying that you may
never more give way to those gusts of passion, and those curses against
others, which divided us.
" This, with a warm hand, from the living Bertha."
Otto (for such, it seems, was the gentleman's name) went instantly,
calmly, quickly, yet with a sort of benumbed being, to the public
walk. He felt, but with only a half-consciousness, as if he glided
without a body. But all his spirit was awake, eager, intensely con-
scious. It seemed to him as if there had been but two things in the
world,—Life and Death ; and that Death was dead. All else
appeared to have been a dream. He had awakened from a waking
state, and found himself all eye, and spirit, and loco-motion. He
said to himself once, as he went,—" This is not a dream. I will ask
my great ancestors to-morrow to my new bridal feast, for they are
alive." Otto had been calm at first, but something of old and trium-
phant feelings seemed again to come over him. Was he again too
proud and confident ? Did his earthly humours prevail again, when
he thought them least upon him ? We shall see.
The Bavarian arrived at the public walk. It was full of people,
with their wives and children, enjoying the beauty of the evening.
Something like common fear came over him, as he went in and out
among them, looking at the benches on each side. It happened that
there was only one person, a lady, sitting upon them. She had her
veil down : and his being underwent a fierce but short convulsion as
he went near her. Something had a little baffled the calmer inspi-
ration of the angel that had accosted him ; for fear prevailed at the
instant, and Otto passed on. He returned before he had reached the
end of the walk, and approached the lady again. She was still sitting
in the same quiet posture, only he thought she looked at him.
Again he passed her. On his second return, a grave and sweet cou-
rage came upon him, and, in an under but firm tone of inquiry, he
said, "Bertha?" " I thought you had forgotten me," said that
well-known and mellow voice, which he had seemed as far from ever
$0 THE ASTROLOGSKR OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
hearing again, as earth is from heaven. He took her hand, which
grasped his in turn, and they walked home in silence together, the
arm which was wound within his si vino; warmth for warmth.
The neighbours seemed to have a miraculous want of wonder at the
lady's reappearance. Something was said about a mock funeral,
and her having withdrawn from his company for awhile ; but visitors
came as before, and his wife returned to her household affairs. It
was only remarked that she always looked pale and pensive. But
she was more kind to all, even than before ; and her pensiveness
seemed rather the result of some great internal thought, than of un-
happiness.
For a year or two the Bavarian retained the better temper which
he had acquired. His fortunes flourished beyond his earliest ambi-
tion : the most amiable as well as noble persons of the district were
frequent visitors ; and people said that, to be at Otto's house must
be the next thing to being in heaven. But, by degrees, his self-
will returned with his prosperity. He never vented impatience on his
wife ; but he again began to show that the disquietude it gave her
to see it vented on others was a secondary thing in his mind to the
indulgence of it. Whether it was, that his grief for her loss had
been rather remorse than affection, and so he held himself secure if
he treated her well, or whether he was at all times rather proud of
her than fond, or whatever was the cause which again set his anti-
pathies above his sympathies, certain it was, that his old habits
returned upon him : not so often indeed, but with greater violence
and pride, when they did. These were the only times at which
his wife was observed to show any ordinary symptoms of unea-
siness.
At length, one day, some strong rebuff which he had received
from an alienated neighbour threw him into such a transport of rage,
that he gave way to the most bitter imprecations, crying with a loud
voice—" This treatment to me, too ? To me ! To me, who, if the
world knew all" —-At these words, his wife, who had in vain laid her
hand upon his, and looked him with dreary earnestness in the face,
suddenly glided from the room. He, and two or three who were
present, were struck with a dumb horror. They said she did not
walkout, nor vanish suddenly ; but glided, as one who could dispense
THE NECROMANCER. 81
with the use of feet. After a moment's pause, the others proposed
to him to follow her. He made a movement of despair ; hut they
went. There was a short passage, which turned to the right into her
favourite room. They knocked at the door twice or three times,
and received no answer. At last, one of them gently opened it; and,
looking in, they saw her, as they thought, standing before a fire,
which was the only light of the room. Yet she stood so far from
it, as rather to be in the middle in the room ; only the face was
towards the fire, and she seemed looking upon it. They addressed
her, but received no answer. They stepped gently towards her, and
still received none. The figure stood dumb and unmoved. At last,
one of them went round in front, and instantly fell on the floor. The
figure was without body : a hollow hood was left instead of a face.
The clothes were standing upright by themselves.
That room was blocked up for ever, for the clothes, if it might be
so, to moulder away. It was called the Room of the Lady's Figure.
The house, after the gentleman's death, was long uninhabited, and
at length burnt by the peasants in an insurrection. As for himself,
he died about nine months after, a gentle and child-like penitent.
He had never stirred from the house since ; and nobody would
venture to go near him, but a man who had the reputation of being
a reprobate. It was from this man that the particulars of the story
came first. He would distribute the gentleman's alms in great abun-
dance to any strange poor who would accept them ; for most of the
neighbours held them in horror. He tried all he could to get the
parents among them to let some of their little children, or a single
one of them, go to see his employer. They said, he even asked it
one day, with tears in his eyes, but they shuddered to think of it
;
and the matter was not mended when this profane person, in a fit of
impatience, said, one day, that he would have a child of his own on
purpose. His employer, however, died in a day or two. They did not
believe a word he told them of all the Bavarian's gentleness, looking
upon the latter as a sort of ogre, and upon his agent as little better,
though a good-natured looking earnest kind of person. It was said,
many years after, that this man had been a friend of the Bavarian's
when young, and had been deserted by him ; and the young believed it,
whatever the old might.]
82
CIRCLE I.—SECT. IV
Enbocatton of Spirits
The following extraordinary Fragment is extracted verbatim from a
curious and original Manuscript in the British Museum,
" Wednesday, Oct, 16, 1585.
" At eleven o'clock at night, I and my companions having began
action, at the request and full consent of all the company, we did
fully agree, that we should not desist till we had brought something
to completion. And having began action, and all things for the
same purpose ready and fitted, we give a brief account of what
followed.
" After the first invocation, twice or thrice repeated, there appeared
two men in the farthest glass, visible to some part of the company,
and not to other some : but, proceeding on, and invocating highly,
there came a very great blow upon the floor, which made a very
great noise ; and, before it ceased, it did whirl about several times,
to the astonishment and admiration of all the company. And still
proceeding on, and reading further, there came something which fell
pat upon the table, and from the table upon the ground, which made
a smaller noise upon the floor than the other did ; and so vanished.
And so much for that night only. When action was ended, we could
find nothing that was the cause of that noise, for what it was we
could not tell ; but, be it what it would, as it came, so it went, for
we could not find any thing.
" Thursday, October \7ih.
" At eleven at night we began action again ; and, having perform-
ed several invocations and constraints, there appeared three sparks
of fire, which broke, and were quickly gone. Next appeared a veil
or curtain in the stone, of a very bright colour; which continued a
great while, and so vanished. And after that appeared several
black clouds, filling the glass -with dark dismal show : but, immedi-
ately proceeding, and invocating higher, we had more remarkable
matters; for there was thrown a great piece of tile with such a force
upon the floor, that if it had hit upon the head of any of the com-
THE NECROMANCER. -83
pany, it would have split their skulls. And there it lay visibly upon
the floor before us, during the whole action. Immediately after,
came another great blow upon the floor, visible to all, which made a
very great noise and rattling; which, after action, we perceived to be
a great piece of earth tile, which did make the company very much
to admire how it came there, it being very wet, as if it had newly
come out of the earth. But proceeding yet higher, and invocating
at large, there appeared a thing like unto a fly, which hovered and
flew all over the lamps and receptacles a great while. At last, it
flew down upon the table, and run upon the seal of the spirit, and
there, visibly to us all, did not leave one line nor scroll in the seal
unsearched, but run over it all, and then whirled round several times
together, and likewise run over every line of the bond, and likewise
run over the petition, and thoroughly searched all our writings, and
viewed our concerns, at large, as they lay. Presently after, appeared
six large flies, which hovered all around the other fly ; and so all
vanished at once, and were never seen after. After that, appeared
several shapes of black, gleaming up and down the room, but quickly-
vanished. After this, something fell again, with a great noise, near
the table, and there whirled up and down the room for a great while
together, and also vanished, and was never seen again, nor ever
could we find what it was.
"The time being spent, and our action almost over, we licensed the
spirits to depart to their orders, at which time there was such a noise
and such a rattling upon the top of the house, as if a cart and horses
had run from one end of the house to the other ; and so we gave
over, for that action.
"Friday, October 18th.
" At eleven o'clock at night, we began action again : and, before
we were well seated in the circle, undoubtedly they were with us ;
for, from the fuming-pan, which stood upon the table, there came
several flashes of fire, one after another, and a pretty long space
between each flash ; and between every flash a blaze as blue as
steel, and such a strong and infernal stink of brimstone issued from
thence as was ready to choke us all. Whereupon, falling upon high
action, immediately appeared a great flint stone, which came upon
g2
84 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY
the floor with such a force, that the floor shaked ; and, immediately
after, proceeding farther and constraining higher, there descended a
pebble down, which broke our bottle of red ink all in pieces standing
upon the table before us all. And, after a little space longer, there
appeared two acorns upon the table, which, with the pebble, lay-
visibly before us, during the whole action. After this, appeared in
the stone which stood in the midst, a thing like unto a crocodile,
turning and twisting upon the table, around the glass, which, before
action was done, turned to the shape of a perfect man, and so
vanished. But, being resolute, and resolved to force them to visible
appearance, moving something nearer the edge of the circle than I
ought to have done, I had like to have been nipped out, for some
part of my book, hanging over the circle, had such a blow which beat
the book quite out of my hand, to the farther part of the room, and
almost beat me over ; which all the company saw, and beheld with
great wonder. After which pretty feat, there came to our hearing
the sweetest harmony of music that we ever heard, which continued
some time, but no louder than the humming of an humble bee.; which
we could not suppose to be any thing but for joy that they had hin-
dered our proceedings, by beating the book out of my hand, and
spoiling the heighth of our action for that time ; which, in all likeli-
hood was so, for, immediately after our book was gone, what we
before looked for quickly came ; for there were several gleams all
around the room, and especially at one end of the room appeared
something of a whitish color, but did not continue long: but quickly
after this there came a great black bowl, which swiftly ran quite
round the circle, and so vanished ; and so we gave over for that
time.
" But take notice, that the next morning, after that action, I and my
companions walking towards a wood, where we supposed the treasure
to be laid and hidden, we there were all amazed and astonished ;
for, by the side of an alder, near a well (which some of my compa-
nions, in searching and digging for the treasure, chanced to find a
former time, but which at this time was a very fine spring), there,
afar off, before any of us came near the place, was brought and laid
our glass ball, that stood in the middle of our other glasses upon the
THE NECROMANCER. 85
table the night before, with all the matter of appearance in it (and
there left standing upon the table when we left the room from action),
at the root of the alder, which we all knew to be our's ; but coming
home we proved it to be so, for, entering the room, which was
locked, we found our middle glass wanting. It was gone, but the
pedestal whereon it stood left behind, to our great wonder and asto-
nishment. This wood was a full mile from our place of action.
" Wednesday, October 23d,
<(
At eleven o'clock at night, we began action again; and, after
some time, we perceived at least eleven acorns come upon the table
with great force, and made such rattling and flying about the room,
that we were all astonished ; for, in short, some of our company did
not know whether to stand or run ; for afterwards descended a great
stone, into the consecrated water, which made the water to flash all
our concerns.'
,
The foregoing fragment is copied out of a transcript of M Dee's Conferences
with Angels," but is no part of the Conferences, but written at the latter end
thereof. The whole transcript was made by Elias Ashmole, Esq. from the original
MSS. and is No. 3677 in the Sloanian Library of MSS. in the British Museum.
CIRCLE I.—S ECT V
®f)t JJlagtc Mitt,
AN AWFUL NARRATION.
FROM THE GERMAN.
For more than one hundred and fifty years had the family of
Schroll been settled at Taubendorf; and generally respected for
knowledge and refinement of manners superior to its station. Its
present representative, the bailiff Elias Schroll, had in his youth
attached himself to literature ; but later in life, from love to the
country, he had returned to his native village, and lived there in
great credit and esteem.
During this whole period of one hundred and fifty years, tradition
had recorded only one single Schroll as having borne a doubtful cha-
racter : he, indeed, as many persons affirmed, had dealt with the
86 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
devil. Certain it is that there was still preserved in the house a
scrutoire fixed in the wall, and containing some mysterious manu-
scripts attributed to him ; and the date of the year—1630, which
was carved upon the front, tallied with his era. The key of this
scrutoire had been constantly handed down to the eldest son, through
five generations—with a solemn charge to take care that no other
eye or ear should ever become acquainted with its contents. Every
precaution had been taken to guard against accidents or oversights
:
the lock was so constructed that, even with the right key, it could
not he opened without special instructions; and, for still greater
security, the present proprietor had added a padlock of most elabo-
rate workmanship, which presented a sufficient obstacle before the
main leek could be approached.
In vain did the curiosity of the whole family direct itself to this
scrutoire. Nobody had succeeded in discovering any part of its con-
tents, except Rudolph, the only son of the bailiff: he had succeeded:
at least, his own belief was, that the old folio, with gilt edges, and
bound in black velvet, which he had one day surprised his father
anxiously reading, belonged to the mysterious scrutoire. For the
door of the scrutoire, though not open, was unlocked; and Elias had
hastily closed the book with great agitation, at the same time ordering
his son out of the room in no very gentle tone. At the time of this
incident, Rudolph was about twelve years of age.
Since that time, the young man had sustained two great losses, in
the deaths of his excellent mother, and a sister tenderly beloved.
His father also had suffered deeply in health and spirits under these
afflictions. Every day he grew more fretful and humoursome; and
Rudolph, upon his final return home from school in his eighteenth
year, was shocked to find him greatly altered in mind as well as in
person. His flesh had fallen away, and he seemed to be consumed
by some internal strife of thought. It was evidently his own opinion
that he was standing on the edge of the grave : and he employed
himself unceasingly in arranging his affairs, and in making his suc-
cessor acquainted with all such arrangements as regarded his more
peculiar interests. One evening, as Rudolph came in suddenly from
a neighbour's house, and happened to pass the scrutoire, he found
THE NECROMANCER.
the door wide open, and the inside obviously empty. Looking
round, he observed his father standing on the hearth close to a great
fire, in the midst of which was consuming the old black book.
Elias entreated his son earnestly to withdraw : but Rudolph could
not command himself; and he exclaimed—" I doubt, Sir, that this
is the book which belongs to the scrutoire."
His father assented with visible confusion.
" Well, then, allow me to say, that I am greatly surprised at your
treating in this way an heir-loom that, for a century and more, has
always been transmitted to the eldest son."
"You are in the right, my son," said the father, affectionately
taking him by the hand :
" You are partly in the right : it is not quite
defensible, 1 admit: and I myself have had many scruples about the
course 1 have taken. Yet still I feel myself glad, upon the whole, that
I have destroyed this accursed book. He that wrote it never pros-
pered ; all traditions agree in that :
—why then leave to one's descen-
dants a miserable legacy of unhallowed mysteries ?
This excuse, however, did not satisfy Rudolph. He maintained
that his father had made an aggression upon his rights of inheritance
;
and he argued the point so well, that Elias himself began to see that
his son's complaint was not altogether groundless. The whole of the
next day they behaved to each other—not unkindly, but yet with
some coolness. At night, Elias could bear this no longer ; and he
said, "Dear Rudolph, we have lived long together in harmony and
love ; let us not begin to show an altered countenance to each other
during the few days that I have yet to live."
Rudolph pressed his father's offered hand with a filial warmth ; and
the latter went on to say—" I purpose to communicate to you by
word of mouth the contents of the book which I have destroyed : I
will do this with good faith and without reserve —unless you yourself
can be persuaded to forego your own right to such a communica-
tion."
Elias paused—flattering himself, as it seemed, that his son would
forego his right. But in this he was mistaken : Rudolph was far too
eager for the disclosure ; and earnestly pressed his father to proceed.
Again Elias hesitated and threw a glance of profound love and pity
88 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
upon his son—a glance that conjured him to think better and to wave
his claim : but, this being at length obviously hopeless, he spoke as
follows :
—" The book relates chiefly to yourself : it points to you as
to the last of our race. You turn pale. Surely, Rudolph, it would
have been better that you had resolved to trouble yourself no farther
about it?"
" No," said Rudolph, recovering his self-possession, " No : for it
still remains a question whether this prophecy be true."
" It does so,—it does, no doubt.
"
" And is this all that the book says in regard to me?"
" No : it is not all : there is something more. But possibly you
will only laugh when you hear it : for at this day nobody believes in
such strange stories. However, be that as it may, the book goes on
to say plainly and positively, that the Evil One (Heaven protect us !)
will make you an offer tending greatly to your worldly advantage."
Rudolph laughed outright ; and replied that, judging by the grave
exterior of the book, he had looked to hear of more serious contents.
" Well, well, my son," said the old man, " I know not that 1 my-
self am disposed to place much confidence in these tales of contracts
with the devil. But, true or not, we ought not to laugh at them.
Enough for me that, under any circumstances, 1 am satisfied you
have so much natural piety, that you would reject all worldly good
fortune that could meet you upon unhallowed paths."
Here Elias would have broken off : but Rudolph said, " One
thing more I wish to know : What is to be the nature of the good
fortune offered to me ? And did the book say whether I should
accept it or not ?"
" Upon the nature of the good fortune the writer has not explained
himself : all that he says is, that, by a discreet use of it, it is in
your power to become a very great man. Whether you will accept
it—but God preserve thee, my child, from any thought so criminal
—upon this question there is a profound silence. Nay, it seems
even as if this trader in black arts had at that very point been over-
taken by death : for he had broken off in the very middle of a word.
The Lord have mercy upon his soul
!"
Little as Rudolph's faith was in the possibility of such a proposal,
THE NECROMANCER. 89
yet he was uneasy at his father's communication, and visibly dis-
turbed ; so that the latter said to him—" Had it not been better,
Rudolph, that you had left the mystery to be buried with me in the
grave ?
"
Rudolph said—" No :" but his restless eye, and his agitated air,
too evidently approved the accuracy of his father's solicitude.
The deep impression upon Rudolph's mind from this conversation
—the last he was ever to hold with his father—was rendered still
deeper by the solemn event which followed. About the middle of
that same night, he was awakened suddenly by a summons to his
father's bed-side : his father was dying, and earnestly asking for him.
" My son !" lie exclaimed with an expression of the bitterest
anguish ; stretched out both his arms in supplication towards him
;
and, in the anguish of the effort, he expired.
The levity of youthful spirits soon dispersed the gloom which at
first hung over Rudolph's mind. Surrounded by jovial companions
at the university which he now visited, he found no room left in his
bosom for sorrow or care : and his heaviest affliction was the refusal
of his guardian at times to comply with his too frequent importunities
for money.
After a residence of one year at the university, some youthful
irregularities in which Rudolph was concerned subjected him, jointly
with three others, to expulsion. Just at that time, the seven years'
war happened to break out : two of the party, named Theiler and
Werl, entered the military service together with Rudolph ; the last
very much against the will of a young woman to whom he was
engaged. Charlotte herself, however, became reconciled to this
arrangement, when she saw that her objections availed nothing against
Rudolph's resolution, and heard her lover describe in the most flat-
tering colours his own return to her arms in the uniform of an offi-
cer: for that his distinguished courage must carry him in the very
first campaign to the rank of lieutenant was as evident to his own
mind as that he could not possibly fall on the field of battle.
The three friends were fortunate enough to be placed in the same
company. But, in the first battle, Werl and Theiler were stretched
90 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
lifeless by Rudolph's side : Werl, by a musket-ball through his
heart, and Theiler by a cannon-shot which took off his head. •
Soon after this event, Rudolph himself returned home : but how ?
Not, as he had fondly anticipated, in the brilliant decorations of a
distinguished officer; but as a prisoner in close custody: in a trans-
port of youthful anger he had been guilty, in company with two
others, of insubordination and mutiny.
The court-martial sentenced them to death. The judges, however,
were so favourably impressed by their good conduct, whilst under
confinement, that they would certainly have recommended them
unconditionally to the royal mercy, if it had not been deemed neces-
sary to make an example. However, the sentence was so far miti-
gated, that only one of the three was to be shot. And which was he ?
That point was reserved in suspense until the day of execution, when
it was to be decided by the cast of the dice..
As the fatal day drew near, a tempest of passionate grief assailed
the three prisoners. One of them was agitated by the tears of his
father ; the second by the sad situation of a sickly wife and two chil-
dren ; the third, Rudolph, in case the lot fell upon him, would be
summoned to part not only with his life, but also with a young and
blooming bride, that lay nearer to his heart than any thing else in the
world. M Ah !" said he, on the evening before the day of final de-
cision, " Ah ! if but this once I could secure a lucky throw of the
dice!" And scarce was the wish uttered, when his comrade Werl,
whom he had seen fall by his side in the field of battle, stepped into
his cell.
" So, brother Schroll, I suppose you didn't much expect to see
me?"
" No, indeed, did I not"—exclaimed Rudolph in consternation :
for in fact, on the next day after the battle, he had seen with his
own eyes this very Werl committed to the grave.
" Aye, aye, its strange enough, I allow : but there are not many
such surgeons as he is that belongs to our regiment : he had me dug
up, and brought me round again, Til assure you. One would think
the man was a conjurer. Indeed there are many things he can do
THE NECROMANCER. .01
which I defy any man to explain; and, to say the truth, I'm con-
vinced he can execute impossibilities."
" Well, so let him, for aught that I care : all his art will scarcely
do me any good."
" Who knows, brother ? who knows ? The man is in this town
at this very time ; and for old friendship's sake I've just spoken to
him about you : and he has promised me a lucky throw of the dice
that shall deliver you from all danger."
" Ah !" said the dejected Rudolph, "but even this would be of
little service to me."
" Why, how so ?" asked the other.
" How so ? Why, because—even if there were such dice (a mat-
ter I very much dispute) —yet I could never allow myself to turn
aside, by black arts, any bad luck designed for myself upon the
heads of either of my comrades."
" Now this, I suppose, is what you call being noble ? But excuse
me if I think that in such cases one's first duty is to oneself."
"Aye, but consider, one of my comrades has an old father to
maintain, the other a sick wife with two children."
"Schroll, Schroll, if your young bride were to hear you, I fancy
she wouldn't think herself much flattered. Does poor Charlotte de-
serve that you should not bestow a thought on her and her fate ? A
dear young creature, that places her whole happiness in you, has
nearer claims (I think) upon your consideration than an old dotard
with one foot in the grave, or a wife and two children that are no-
thing at all to you. Ah ! what a deal of good might you do in the
course of a long life with your Charlotte ! So, then, you really
are determined to reject the course which I paint out to you ? Take
care, Schroll ! If you disdain my offer, and the lot should chance
to fall upon you,—take care lest the thought of a young bride whom
you have betrayed,—take care, I say, lest this thought should add to
the bitterness of death when you come to kneel down on the sand-
hill. However, I've given you advice sufficient, and have dis-
charged my conscience. Look to it yourself : and farewell
!"
" Stay, brother, a word or two ;" said Rudolph, who was power-
fully impressed by the last speech, and the picture of domestic hap-
92 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
piness held up before him, which he had often dallied with in
thought both when alone and in company with Charlotte :
—" stay a
moment. Undoubtedly, I do not deny that I wish for life, if 1 could
receive it a gift from Heaven : and that is not impossible. Only I
would not willingly have the guilt upon my conscience of being the
cause of misery to another. However, if the man you speak of can
tell, I should be glad that you would ask him upon which of us
three the lot of death will fall. Or—stay; don't ask him," said
Rudolph, sighing deeply.
" I have already asked him," was the answer.
" Ah ! have you so? And it is after his reply that you come to
me with this counsel ?"
The foretaste of death overspread the blooming face of Rudolph
with a livid paleness : thick drops of sweat gathered upon his fore-
head ; and the other exclaimed with a sneer—" I'm going : you take
too much time for consideration. May be you will see and recog-
nise me at the place of execution : and, if so, I shall have the dice
with me ; and it will not be too late even then to give me a sign :
but take notice 1 can't promise to attend."
Rudolph raised his forehead from the palm of his hand, in which
he had buried it during the last moments of his perturbation, and
would have spoken something in reply : but his counsellor was al-
ready gone. He felt glad and yet at the same time sorry. The
more he considered the man and his appearance, so much the less
seemed his resemblance to his friend whom he had left buried on
the field of battle. This friend had been the very soul of affectionate
cordiality—a temper that was altogether wanting to his present coun-
sellor. No ! the scornful and insulting tone with which he treated
the unhappy prisoner, and the unkind manner with which he had
left him, convinced Schroll that he and Werl must be two different
persons. Just at this moment a thought struck him, like a blast of
lightning, of the black book that had perished in the fire and its
ominous contents. A lucky cast of the dice ! Aye ; that then was
the shape in which the tempter had presented himself; and heartily
glad he felt that he had not availed himself of his suggestions.
But this temper of mind was speedily changed by his young bride,
THE NECROMANCER. 93
who hurried in, soon after, sobbing, and flung her arms about his
neck. He told her of the proposal which had been made to him ;
and she was shocked that he had not immediately accepted it.
With a bleeding heart, Rudolph objected that so charming and
lovely a creature could not miss of a happy fate, even if he should
be forced to quit her. But she protested vehemently that he or no-
body should enjoy her love.
The clergyman, who visited the prisoner immediately after her
departure, restored some composure to his mind, which had been
altogether banished by the presence of his bride. " Blessed are
they who die in the Lord !" said the grey-haired divine; and with
so much earnestness and devotion, that this single speech had the
happiest effect upon the prisoner's mind.
On the morning after this night of agitation—the morning of the
fatal day—the three criminals saw each other for the first time since
their arrest. Community of fate, and long separation from each
other, contributed to draw still closer the bond of friendship that had
been first knit on the field of battle. Each of the three testified a
lively abhorrence for the wretched necessity of throwing death to
some one of his comrades, by any cast of the dice which should
bring life to himself. Dear as their several friends were to all, yet
at this moment the brotherly league, which had been tried and
proved in the furnace of battle, was triumphant over all opposing
considerations. Each would have preferred death himself, rather
than escape it at the expense of his comrade.
The worthy clergyman, who possessed their entire confidence,
found them loudly giving utterance to this heroic determination.
Shaking his head, he pointed their attention to those who had claims
upon them whilst living, and for whom it was their duty to wish to
live as long as possible. " Place your trust in God !" said he : "re-
sign yourselves to him ! He it is that will bring about the decision
through your hands ; and think not of ascribing that power to your-
selves, or to his lifeless instruments—the dice. He, without whose
permission no sparrow falls to the ground, and who has numbered
every hair upon your head—He it is that knows best what is good
for you ; and he only."
94 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
The prisoners assented by squeezing his hand, embraced each
other, and received the sacrament in the best disposition of mind.
After this ceremony they breakfasted together, in as resigned,—nay,
almost in as joyous a mood as if the gloomy and bloody morning
which lay before them were ushering in some gladsome festival.
When, however, the procession was marshalled from the outer
gate, and their beloved friends were admitted to utter their last fare-
wells, then again the sternness of their courage sank beneath the
burden of their melancholy fate. " Rudolph !" whispered amongst
the rest his despairing bride, " Rudolph ! why did you reject the
help that was offered to you ?" He adjured her not to add to the
bitterness of parting ; and she in turn adjured him, a little before the
word of command was given to march—which robbed her of all con-
sciousness—to make a sign to the stranger who had volunteered his
offer of deliverance, provided he should anywhere observe him in
the crowd.
The streets and the windows were lined with spectators. Vainly
did each of the criminals seek, by accompanying the clergyman in
his prayers, to shelter himself from the thought, that all return,
perhaps, was cut off from him. The large house of his bride's father
reminded Schroil of a happiness that was now lost to him for ever,
if any faith were to be put in the words of his yesterday's monitor ;
and a very remarkable faintness came over him. The clergyman,
who was acquainted with the circumstances of his case, and, there-
fore, guessed the occasion of his sudden agitation, laid hold of his
arm—and said, with a powerful voice, that he who trusted in God
would assuredly see all his righteous hopes accomplished—in this
world, if it were God's pleasure ; but, if not, in a better.
These were words of comfort : but their effect lasted only for a few
moments. Outside the city-gate his eyes were met by the sand-hill
already thrown up—a spectacle which renewed his earthly hopes
and fears. He threw a hurried glance about him ; but no where
could he see his last night's visitor.
Every moment the decision came nearer and nearer. It has
begun. One of the three has already shaken the box : the die is
cast : he has thrown a six. This throw was now registered amidst
THE NECROMANCER. 95
the solemn silence of the crowd. The by-standers regarded him
with silent congratulations in their eyes. For this man and Rudolph
were the two special objects of the general compassion : this man as
the husband and father ; Rudolph as the youngest and handsomest,
and because some report had gone abroad of his superior education
and attainments.
Rudolph was youngest in a double sense—youngest in years, and
youngest in the service : for both reasons he was to throw last. It
may be supposed, therefore, how much all present trembled for the
poor delinquent, when the second of his comrades likewise flung a
six.
Prostrated in spirit, Rudolph stared at the unpropitious die. Then
a second time he threw a hurried glance around him—and that so
full of despair, that from horrid sympathy a violent shuddering ran
through the by-standers. "Here is no deliverer," thought Rudolph,
" none to see me, or to hear me ! And if there were, it is now too
late : for no change of the die is any longer possible." So saying,
he seized the fatal die ; convulsively his hand clutches it ; and be-
fore the throw is made he feels that the die is broken in two.
During the universal thrill of astonishment which succeeded to
this strange accident, he looked round again. A sudden shock, and
a sudden joy, tied through his countenance. Not far from him, in
the dress of a pedlar, stands Theiler without a wound—the comrade
whose head had been carried off on the fiVd of battle by a cannon-
ball. Rudolph made an under sign to him with his eye. For, clear
as it now was to his mind with whom he was dealing, yet the
dreadful trial of the moment overpowered his better resolutions.
The military commission were in some confusion. No provision
having been thought of against so strange an accident, there was no
second die at hand. They were just on the point of despatching a
messenger to fetch one, when the pedlar presented himself with the
offer of supplying the loss. The new die is examined by the auditor,
and delivered to the unfortunate Rudolph. He throws : the die is
lying on the drum ; and again it is a six ! The amazement is uni-
versal : nothing is decided : the throws must be repeated. They
96 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
are : and Weber, the husband of the sick wife —the father of the
two half-naked children, flings the lowest throw.
Immediately the officer's voice was heard wheeling his men into
their position : on the part of Weber there was as little delay. The
overwhelming injury to his wife and children inflicted by his own
act, was too mighty to contemplate. He shook hands rapidly with
his two comrades ; stept nimbly into his place ; kneeled down ; the
word of command was heard—" Lower your muskets ;" instantly he
'dropt the fatal handkerchief with the gesture of one who prays for
some incalculable blessing : and in the twinkling of an eye, sixteen
bullets had lightened the heart of the poor mutineer from its whole
immeasurable freight of anguish.
All the congratulations, with which they were welcomed on their
return into the city, fell powerless on Rudolph's ear ! Scarcely
could even Charlotte's caresses affect with any pleasure the man
who believed himself to have sacrificed his comrade, through collu-
sion with a fiend.
The importunities of Charlotte prevailed over all objections which
the pride of her aged father suggested against a son-in-law who had
been capitally convicted. The marriage was solemnized : but at the
wedding-festival, amidst the uproar of merriment, the parties chiefly
concerned were not happy or tranquil. In no long time the father-
in-law died, and by his death placed the young couple in a state of
complete independence. But Charlotte's fortune, and the remainder
of what Rudolph had inherited from his father, were speedily swal-
lowed up by an idle and luxurious mode of living. Rudolph now
began to ill-use his wife. To escape from his own conscience, he
plunged into all sorts of dissolute courses. And very remarkable it
was, that, from manifesting the most violent abhorrence for every
thins: which could lead his thoughts to his own fortunate cast of the
die, he gradually came to entertain so uncontrollable a passion for
playing at dice, that he spent all his time in the company of those
with whom he could turn this passion to account. His house had
long since passed out of his own hands : not a soul could be found
anywhere to lend him a shilling. The sickly widow of Weber and
THE NECROMANCER. 97
her two children, whom he had hitherto supported, lost their home
and means of livelihood. And ir. no long space of time the same fate
fell upon himself, his wife, and his child.
Too little used to labour to have any hope of improving his con*
dition in that way, one day he bethought himself that the Medical
Institute was in the habit of purchasing from poor people, during
their life-time, the reversion of their bodies. To this establishment
he addressed himself; and the ravages in his personal appearance
and health, caused by his dissolute life, induced them the more rea-
dily to lend an ear to his proposal.
But the money thus obtained, which had been designed for the
support of his wife and half-famished children, was squandered at
the gaming-table. As the last dollar vanished, Schroll bit one of
the dice furiously between his teeth. Just then he heard these
words whispered at his ear—" Gently, brother, gently : All dice do
not split in two like that on the sand-hill." He looked round in
agitation, but saw no trace of any one who could have uttered the
words. •
With dreadful imprecations on himself and those with whom he
had played, he flung out of the gaming-house, homewards on his
road to the wretched garret where his wife and children were await-
ing his return and his succour. But here the poor creatures, tor-
mented by hunger and cold, pressed upon him so importunately,
that he had no way to deliver himself from misery but by flying
from the spectacle. But whither could he go thus late at night,
when his utter poverty was known in every alehouse ? Roaming he
knew not whither, he found himself at length in the church-yard.
The moon was shining solemnly upon the quiet grave-stones, though
obscured at intervals by piles of stormy clouds. Rudolph shuddered
at nothing but at himself and his own existence. He strode with
bursts of laughter over the dwellings of the departed ; and entered a
vault which gave him shelter from the icy blasts of wind, which now
began to bluster more loudly than before. The moon threw her
rays into the vault full upon the golden legend inscribed in the wall
—
" Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord /" Schroll took up a
spade that was sticking in the ground, and struck with it furiously
H
98 THE ASTROLOGER OF TIFE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
against the gilt letters on the wall : but they seemed indestructible
;
and he was going to assault them with a mattock, when suddenly a
hand touched him on the shoulder, and said to him, " Gently, com-
rade : thy pains are all thrown away." Schroll uttered a loud ex-
clamation of terror : for, in these words, he heard the voice of
Weber, and, on turning round, recognised his whole person.
" What wouldst thou have ?" asked Rudolph,—" What art thou
come for ?"—" To comfort thee," replied the figure, which now
suddenly assumed the form and voice of the pedlar to whom Schroll
was indebted for the fortunate die. " Thou hast forgotten me : and
thence it is that thou art fallen into misfortune. Look up and ac-
knowledge thy friend in need that comes only to make thee happy
again."
" If that be thy purpose, wherefore is it that thou wearest a.shape
before which, of all others that have been on earth, I have most rea-
son to shudder ?"
" The reason is—because I must not allow to any man my help
or my converse on too easy terms. BefoBe ever my die was allowed
to turn thy fate, I was compelled to give thee certain intimations from
which thou knewest with whom it was that thou wert dealing."
" With whom, then, was it that I was dealing?" cried Schroll,
staring with his eyes wide open, and his hair standing erect.
" Thou knewest, comrade, at that time—thou knowest at this mo-
ment," said the pedlar, laughing, and tapping him on the shoulder.
«' But what is it that thou desirest ?"
Schroll struggled internally ; but, overcome by his desolate con-
dition, he said immediately—" Dice : I would have dice that shall
win whenever I wish."
'* Very well : but first of all stand out of the blaze of this golden
writing on the wall : it is a writing that has nothing to do with thee.
Here are dice : never allow them to go out of thy own possession :
for that might bring thee into great trouble. When thou needest
me, light a fire at the last stroke of the midnight hour ; throw in
my dice, and with loud laughter. They will crack once or twice,
and then split. At that moment catch at them in the flames : but
let not the moment slip or thou art lost. And let not thy courage be
THE NECROMANCER. 99
daunted by the sights that I cannot but send before me whensoever I
appear. Lastly, avoid choosing any holy day for this work ; and
beware of the priest's benediction. Here, take the dice."
Schroll caught at the dice with one hand, whilst with the other he
covered his eyes. When he next looked up, he was standing alone.
He now omitted the burying-ground to return as hastily as possible
to the gaming-house, where the light of candles was still visible.
But it was with the greatest difficulty that he obtained money enough
from a " friend" to enable him to make the lowest stake which the
rules allowed. He found it a much easier task to persuade the com-
pany to use the dice which he had brought with him. They saw in
i
this nothing but a very common superstition—and no possibility of
any imposture, as they and he should naturally have benefited alike
by the good luck supposed to accompany the dice. But the nature
of the charm was—that only the possessor of the dice enjoyed their
supernatural powers ; and hence it was that, towards morning, Schroll
reeled home, intoxicated with wine and pleasure, and laden with the
money of all present, to the garret where his family were lying, half
frozen and famished.
Their outward condition was immediately improved. The money
which Schroll had won was sufficient not only for their immediate
and most pressing wants : it was enough also to pay for a front apart-
ment, and to leave a sum sufficient for a very considerable stake.
With this sum, and in better attire, Rudolph repaired to a gaming-
house of more fashionable resort—and came home in the evening
laden with gold.
He now opened a gaming establishment himself; and so much did
his family improve in external appearances within a very few weeks,
that the police began to keep a watchful eye over him.
This induced him to quit the city, and to change his residence
continually. All the different baths of Germany he resorted to be-
yond other towns : but, though his dice perseveringly maintained
their luck, he yet never accumulated any money. Everything was
squandered upon the dissipated life which he and his family pur-
sued.
At length at the baths of the matter began to take an un-
100 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
fortunate turn. A violent passion for a beautiful young lady whom
Rudolph had attached himself to in vain at balls, concerts, and even
at church, suddenly bereft him of all sense and discretion. One
night, when Schroll (who now styled himself Captain Von Schroll-
shausen) was anticipating a master-stroke from his dice, probably
for the purpose of winning the lady by the display of overflowing
wealth and splendour,—suddenly they lost their virtue, and failed
him without warning. Hitherto they had lost only when he willed
them to lose : but, on this occasion, they failed at so critical a mo-
ment, as to lose him not only all his own money, but a good deal
beside that he had borrowed.
Foaming with rage, he came home. He asked furiously after his
wife : she was from home. He examined the dice attentively ; and
it appeared to him that they were not his own. A powerful suspi-
cion seized upon him. Madame Von Schrollshausen had her own gam-
ing circle as well as himself. Without betraying its origin, he had
occasionally given her a few specimens of the privilege attached to
his dice : and she had pressed him earnestly to allow her the use of
them for a single evening. It was true he never parted with them
even on going to bed : but it was possible that they might have been
changed whilst he was sleeping. The more he brooded upon this
suspicion, the more it strengthened : from being barely possible, it
became probable ; from a probability it ripened into a certainty ;
and this certainty received the fullest confirmation at this moment,
when she returned home in the gayest temper, and announced to
him that she had been this night overwhelmed with good luck ; in
proof of which, she poured out upon the table a considerable sum
in gold coin. " And now," she added laughingly, " I care no longer
for your dice ; nay, to tell you the truth, I would not exchange my
own for them."
Rudolph, now confirmed in his suspicions, demanded the dice—as
his property that had been purloined from him. She laughed and
refused. He insisted with more vehemence ; she retorted with
warmth : both parties were irritated : and, at length, in the extremity
of his wrath, Rudolph snatched up a knife and stabbed her : the knife
pierced her heart : she uttered a single sob—was convulsed for a mo-
THE NECROMANCER. 101
ment—and expired. "Cursed accident !
" he exclaimed, when it
clearly appeared, on examination, that the dice which she had in
her purse were not those which he suspected himself to have lost.
No eye but Rudolph's had witnessed the murder : the child had
slept on undisturbed : but circumstances betrayed it to the knowledge
of the landlord ; and, in the morning, he was preparing to make it
public. By great offers, however, Rudolph succeeded in purchasing
the man's silence : he engaged in substance to make over to the land-
lord a large sum of money, and to marry his daughter, with whom
he had long pursued a clandestine intrigue. Agreeably to this
arrangement, it was publicly notified that Madame Von Schrollshausen
had destroyed herself under a sudden attack of hypochondriasis, to
which she had been long subject. Some there were, undoubtedly,
who chose to be sceptics on this matter ; but nobody had an interest
sufficiently deep in the murdered person to prompt him to a legal
inquiry.
A fact, which at this time gave Rudolph far more disturbance of
mind than the murder of his once beloved wife, was —the full confir-
mation, upon repeated experience, that his dice had forfeited their
power. For he had now been a loser for two days running to so
great an extent, that he was obliged to abscond on a misty night. His
child, towards whom his affection increased daily, he was under the
necessity of leaving with his host as a pledge for his return and ful-
filment of his promises. He would not have absconded, if it had been
in his power to summon his dark counsellor forthwith: but on account
of the great festival of Pentecost, which fell on the very next day,
this summons was necessarily delayed for a short time. By staying
he would have reduced himself to the necessity of inventing various
pretexts for delay, in order to keep up his character with his creditors:
whereas, when he returned with a sum of money sufficient to meet his
debts, all suspicions would be silenced at once.
In the metropolis of an adjacent territory, to which he resorted so
often that he kept lodgings there constantly, he passed Whitsunday
with impatience—and resolved on the succeeding night to summon
and converse with his counsellor. Impatient, however, as he was of
any delay, he did not on that account feel the less anxiety as the
102 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
hour of midnight approached. Though he was quite alone in his
apartments, and had left his servant behind at the baths,—yet long
before midnight he fancied that he heard footsteps and whisperings
Tound about him. The purpose he was meditating, that he had
regarded till now as a matter of indifference, now displayed itself in
its vvhole monstrous shape. Moreover, he remembered that his
wicked counsellor had himself thought it necessary to exhort him to
courage, which at present he felt greatly shaken. However, he had
no choice. As he was enjoined, therefore, with the last stroke of
twelve, he set on fire the wood which lay ready split upon the
hearth, and threw the dice into the flames, with a loud laughter that
echoed frightfully from the empty hall and staircases. Confused,
and half-stifled by the smoke which accompanied the roaring flames,
he stood still for a few minutes, when suddenly all the surrounding
objects seemed changed, and he found himself transported to his
father's house. His father was lying on his death-bed just as he had
actually beheld him. He had upon his lips the very same expression
of supplication and anguish with which he had at that time striven
to address him. Once again he stretched out his arms in love and
pity to his son ; and once again he seemed to expire in the act.
Schroll was agitated by the picture, which called up and
re-animated in his memory, with the power of a mighty tormentor,
all his honourable plans and prospects from that innocent period of
his life. At this moment, the dice cracked for the first time ; and
Schroll turned his face towards the flames. A second time the
smoke stifled the light, in order to reveal a second picture. He saw
himself on the day before the scene of the sand-hill sitting in his
dungeon. The clergyman was with him. From the expression of
his countenance, he appeared to be just saying
—
M Blessed are the
dead that die in the Lord.'' Rudolph thought of the disposition in
which he then was—of the hopes which the clergyman had raised in
him—and of the feeling which he then had that he was still worthy
to be re-united to his father, or had become worthy by bitter peni-
tence. The next fracture of the die disturbed the scene—but to sub-
stitute one that was not at all more consolatory. For now appeared a
den of thieves, in which the unhappy widow of Weber was cursing
THE NECROMANCER. 103
her children, who—left without support, without counsel, without
protection, had taken to evil courses. In the background stood' the
bleeding father of these ruined children, one hand stretched out
towards Schroll with a menacing gesture, and the other lifted towards
heaven with a record of impeachment against him.
At the third splitting of the dice, out of the bosom of the smoke
arose the figure of his murdered wife, who seemed to chase him from
one corner of the room to another, until at length she came and took
a seat at the fireplace; by the side of which, as Rudolph now ob-
served with horror, his buried father and the unhappy Weber had
stretched themselves; and they carried on together a low and noise-
less whispering and moaning that agitated him with a mysterious
horror.
After long and hideous visions, Rudolph beheld the flames grow
weaker and weaker. He approached. The figures that stood round
about held up their hands in a threatening attitude. A moment
later, and the time was gone for ever ; and Rudolph, as his false
friend had asserted, was a lost man. With the courage of despair
he plunged through the midst of the threatening figures, and snatched
at the glowing dice—which were no sooner touched than they split
asunder, with a dreadful sound, before which the apparitions vanished
in a body.
The evil counsellor appeared on this occasion in the dress of a
grave-digger, and asked with a snorting sound—" What wouldst thou
from me ?"
" I would remind you of your promise," answered Schroll, step-
ping back with awe : your dice have lost their power.'*
" Through whose fault ?"
Rudolph was silent, and covered his eyes from the withering glances
of the fiendish being who was gazing upon him.
" Thy foolish desires led thee in chase of the beautiful maiden
into the church : my words were forgotten ; and the benediction,
against which I warned thee, disarmed the dice of their power. In
future, observe my directions better."
So saying, he vanished ; and Schroll found three new dice upon
the hearth.
104 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
After such scenes, sleep was not to be thought of; and Rudolph
resolved, if possible, to make trial of his dice this very night. The
ball at the hotel over the way, to which he had been invited, and
from which the steps of the waltzers were still audible, appeared to
present a fair opportunity. Thither he repaired ; but not without
some anxiety, lest some of the noises in his own lodgings should have
reached the houses over the way, He was happy to find this fear
unfounded. Every thing appeared as if calculated only for his senses :
for when he inquired with assumed carelessness what great explosion
that was which occurred about midnight, nobody acknowledged to
having heard it.
The dice, also, he was happy to find, answered his expectations.
He found a company engaged at play: and by the break of day he
had met with so much luck, that he was immediately able to travel
back to the baths, and to redeem his child and his word of honour.
In the baths he now made as many new acquaintances as the losses
were important which he had lately sustained. He was reputed one
of the wealthiest cavaliers in the place ; and many who had designs
upon him inconsequence of this reputed wealth, willingly lost money
to him to favour their own schemes; so that, in a single month he
gained sums which would have established him as a man of fortune.
Under countenance of this repute, and as a widower, no doubt he
might now have made successful advances to the young lady
whom he had formerly pursued : for her father had an exclusive
regard to property, and would have overlooked morals and respecta-
bility of that sort in any candidate for his daughter's hand. But
with the largest offers of money he could not purchase his freedom
from the contract made with his landlord's daughter—a woman of
very disreputable character. In fact, six months after the death of
his first wife, he was married to her.
By the unlimited profusion of money with which his second wife
sought to wash out the stains upon her honour, Rudolph's new-raised
property was as speedily squandered. To part from her was one of
the wishes which lay nearest his heart: he had, however, never ven-
tured to express it a second time before his father-in-law: for on the
single occasion when he had hinted at such an intention, that person
THE NECROMANCER. 105
had immediately broken out into the most dreadful threats. The
murder of his first wife was the chain which bound him to his second.
The boy whom his first wife had left him, closely as he resembled
her in features and in the bad traits of her character, was his only
comfort—if, indeed, his gloomy and perturbed mind would allow him
at any time to taste of comfort.
To preserve this boy from the evil influences of the many bad
examples about him, he had already made an agreement with a man
of distinguished abilities, who was to have superintended his educa-
tion in his own family. But all was frustrated. Madame Von
Schrollshausen, whose love of pomp and display led her eagerly to
catch at every pretext for creating a fete, had invited a party on the
evening before the young boy's intended departure. The time which
was not occupied in the eating-room was spent at the gaming-table,
and dedicated to the dice, of whose extraordinary powers the owner
was at this time availing himself with more zeal than usual —having
just invested all his disposable money in the purchase of a landed
estate. One of the guests having lost very considerable sums in an
uninterrupted train of ill luck, threw the dice, in his vexation, with
such force upon the table, that one of them fell down. The attend-
ants searched for it on the floor ; and the child also crept about in
quest of it : not finding it, he rose ; and, in rising, stepped upon it,
lost his balance, and fell with such violence against the edge of the
stove—that he died in a few hours of the injury inflicted on the
head.
This accident made the most powerful impression upon the father.
He recapitulated the whole of his life from the first trial he had made
of the dice. From them had arisen all his misfortunes. In what
way could he liberate himself from their accursed influence?—
Revolving this point, and in the deepest distress of mind, Schroll
wandered out towards nightfall, and strolled through the town.
Coming to a solitary bridge in the outskirts, he looked down from
the battlements upon the gloomy depths of the waters below, which
seemed to regard him with looks of sympathy and strong fascination.
" So be it then !" he exclaimed, and sprang over the railing. But,
instead of finding his grave in the waters, he felt himself below seized
106 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
powerfully by the grasp of a man—whom, from his scornful laugh,
he recognised as his evil counsellor. The man bore him to the
shore, and said —" No, no, my good friend : he that once enters into
a league with me—him I shall deliver from death even in his own
despite.
Half crazy with despair, the next morning Schroll crept out of the
town with a loaded pistol. Spring was abroad—spring flowers,
spring breezes, and nightingales:* they were all abroad, but not for
him, or his delight. A crowd of itinerant tradesmen passed him, who
were on their road to a neighbouring fair. One of them, observing
his dejected countenance with pity, attached himself to his side, and
asked him in a tone of sympathy what was the matter. Two others
of the passers-by Schroll heard distinctly saying—" Faith, I should
not like for my part to walk alone with such an ill-looking fellow."
He darted a furious glance at the men, separated from his pitying
companion with a fervent pressure of his hand, and struck off into a
solitary track of the forest. In the first retired spot, he fired the
pistol : and behold ! the man who had spoken to him with so much
kindness lies stretched in his blood, and he himself is without a wound.
At this moment, while staring half-unconsciously at the face of the
murdered man, he feels himself seized from behind. Already he
seems to himself in the hands of the public executioner. Turning
round, however, he hardly knows whether to feel pleasure or pain on
seeing his evil suggester in the dress of a grave-digger. " My friend,"
said the grave-digger, " if you cannot be content to wait for death
until I send it, I must be forced to end with dragging you to that from
which 1 began by saving you—a public execution. But think not
thus, or by any oiher way, to escape me. After death, thou wilt
assuredly be mine again."
"Who, then," said the unhappy man, " who is the murderer of
the poor traveller?"
" Who ? why, who but yourself? was it not yourself that fired the
pistol ?
"
* It may be necessary to inform some readers, who have never lived far enough
to l he south to have any personal knowledge of the nightingale, that this bird sings
in the daytime as well as the night.
THE NECROMANCER. 107
"Aye; but at my own head." y
The fiend laughed in a way that made Schroll's flesh creep on his
bones. " Understand this, friend, that he whose fate I hold in my
hands cannot anticipate it by his own act. For the present, begone,
if you would escape the scaffold. To oblige you once more, 1 shall
throw a veil over this murder."
Thereupon, the grave-digger set about making a grave for the
corpse, whilst Schroll wandered away—more for the sake of escaping
the hideous presence in which he stood, than with any view to his
own security from punishment.
Seeing by accident a prisoner under arrest at the guard-house,
Schroll's thoughts reverted to his own confinement. " How happy,"
said he, "for me and for Charlotte—had I then refused to purchase
life on such terms, and had better laid to heart the counsel of my good
spiritual adviser !
"—Upon this a sudden thought struck him—that
he would go and find out the old clergyman, and would unfold to him
his wretched histoiy and situation. He told his wife that some pri-
vate affairs required his attendance for a few days at the town of
—. But, say what he would, he could not prevail on her to
desist from accompanying him.
On the journey, his chief anxiety was, lest the clergyman, who
was already advanced in years at the memorable scene of the sand-
hill, might now be dead. But, at the very entrance of the town, he
saw him walking in the street, and immediately felt himself more
composed in mind than he had done for years. The venerable
appearance of the old man confirmed him still more in his resolution
of making a full disclosure to him of his whole past life : one only
transaction, the murder of his first wife, he thought himself justified
in concealing ; since, with all his penitence for it, that act was now
beyond the possibility of reparation.
For a longtime, the pious clergyman refused all belief to Schroll's
narrative ; but being at length convinced that he had a wounded
spirit to deal with, and not a disordered intellect, he exerted himself
to present all those views of religious consolation which his philan-
thropic character and his long experience suggested to him as likely
to be effectual. Eight days' conversation with the clergyman restored
Schroll to the hopes of a less miserable future. But the good man
108 THE ASTKULOUEH OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
admonished him at parting to put away from himself whatsoever
could in any way tend to support his unhallowed connection.
In this direction, Schroll was aware that the dice were included :
and he resolved firmly that his first measure on returning home
should be to bury in an inaccessible place these accursed implements,
that could not but bring mischief to every possessor. On entering
the inn, he was met by his wife, who was in the highest spirits, and
laughing profusely. He inquired the cause. " No," said she :
" you refused to communicate your motive for coming hither, and the
nature of your business for the last week : I, too, shall have my mys-
teries. As to your leaving me in solitude at an inn, that is a sort of
courtesy which marriage naturally brings with it : but that you should
have travelled hither for no other purpose than that of trifling away
your time in the company of an old tedious parson, that (you will
allow me to say) is a caprice which seems scarcely worth the money
it will cost."
" Who, then, has told you that I have passed my time with an old
parson ?" said the astonished Schroll.
" Who told me ? Why, just let me know what your business was
with the parson, and Til let you know, in turn, who it was that
told me. So much I will assure you, however, now—that the cava-
lier who was my informant is a thousand times handsomer, and a
more interesting companion, than an old dotard who is standing at
the edge of the grave."
All the efforts of Madame Von Schrollshausen to irritate the curio-
sity of her husband proved ineffectual to draw from him his secret.
The next day, on their return homewards, she repeated her attempts.
But he parried them all with firmness. A more severe trial to
his firmness was prepared for him in the heavy bills which his
wife presented to him on his reaching home. Her expenses in
clothes and in jewels had been so profuse, that no expedient re-
mained to Schroll but that of selling, without delay, the landed
estate he had so lately purchased. A declaration to this effect was
very ill received by his wife. " Sell the estate?" said she:
" what, sell the sole resource I shall have to rely on when you are
dead? And for what reason, I should be glad to know; when a
very little of the customary luck of your dice will enable you to pay
THE NECROMANCER. 109
off these tFifles ? And whether the bills be paid to-day or to-morrow
cannot be of any very great importance." Upon this, Schroll
declared with firmness that he never meant to play again. " Not
play again!" exclaimed his wife, "pooh! pooh! you make me
blush for you ! So, then, I suppose it's all true, as was said, that
scruples of conscience drove you to the old rusty parson; and that
he enjoined, as a penance, that you should abstain from gaming ? I
was told as much : but I refused to believe it; for, in your circum-
stances, the thing seemed too senseless and irrational."
" My dear girl," said Schroll, "consider"
—
" Consider ! what's the use of considering ? what is there to con-
sider about ?" interrupted Madame Von Schrollsbausen : and, recol-
lecting the gay cavalier whom she had met at the inn, she now, for
the first time, proposed a separation herself. " Very well," said her
husband, *' I am content." ** So am I," said his father-in-law, who
joined them at that moment. " But take notice that, first of all, I
must have paid over to me an adequate sum of money for the credit'
able support of my daughter : else"
Here he took Schroll aside ; and the old threat of revealing the
murder so utterly disheartened him, that at length, in despair, he
consented to his terms.
Once more, therefore, the dice were to be tried ; but only for
the purpose of accomplishing the separation : that over, Schroll
resolved to seek a livelihood in any other way, even if it were
as a day labourer. The stipulated sum was at length all collected
within a few hundred dollars: and Schroll was already looking
out for some old disused well into which he might throw the dice,
and then have it filled up : for even a river seemed to him a hiding-
place not sufficiently secure for such instruments of misery.
Remarkable it was, on the very night when the last arrears were
to be obtained of his father-in-law's demand,—a night which Schroll
had anticipated with so much bitter anxiety,—that he became unu-
sually gloomy and dejected. He was particularly disturbed by the
countenance of a stranger, who, for several days running, had lost
considerable sums. The man called himself Stutz ; but he had a
most striking resemblance to his old comrade, Weber, who had been
11-0 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
shot at the sand-hill ; and differed indeed in nothing but in the
advantage of blooming youth. Scarcely had he leisure to recover
from the shock which this spectacle occasioned, when a second
occurred. About midnight, another man, whom nobody knew,
came up to the gaming-table—and interrupted the play by recounting
an event which he represented as having just happened. A certain
man, he said, had made a covenant with some person or other, that
they call the Evil One —or what is it you call him ? and by means
of this covenant he had obtained a steady run of good luck at play.
" Well, Sir (he went on), and, would you believe it, the other day
he began to repent of this covenant ; my gentleman wanted to rat,
—
he wanted to rat, Sir. Only, first of all, he resolved privately to make
up a certain sum of money. Ah ! the poor idiot ! he little knew
whom he had to deal with : the Evil One, as they choose to call him,
was not a man to let himself be swindled in that manner. No, no,
my good friend. 1 saw—I mean, the Evil One saw—what was going
on betimes ; and he secured the swindler just as he fancied himself
on the point of pocketing the last arrears of the sum wanted."
The company began to laugh so loudly at this pleasant fiction, as
they conceived it, that Madame Von Schrollshausen was attracted
from the adjoining room. The story was repeated to her: and she
was the more delighted with it, because in therelater she recognised
the gay cavalier whom she had met at the inn. Everybody laughed
again, excepting two persons—Stutz and Schroll. The first had
again lost all the money in his purse ; and the second was so con-
founded by the story, that he could not forbear staring with fixed
eyes on the stranger, who stood over against him. His consternation
increased when he perceived that the stranger's countenance seemed
to alter at every moment ; and that nothing remained unchanged in
it, except the cold expression of inhuman scorn with which he per-
severingly regarded himself.
At length, he could endure this no longer : and he remarked,
therefore, upon Stutz's again losing a bet, that it was now late ; that
Mr. Stutz was too much in a run of bad luck ; and that, on these
accounts, he would defer the further pursuit of their play until ano-
ther day. And, thereupon, he put the dice into his pocket.
THE NECROMANCER. Ill
"Stop!" said the strange cavalier ! and the voice froze Schroll
with horror ; for he knew too well to whom that dreadful tone, and
those fiery eyes, belonged.
"Stop!" he said again: "produce your dice!" And trem-
blingly Schroll threw them upon the table.
" Ah ! I thought as much," said the stranger; " they are loaded
dice !" So saying, he called for a hammer, and struck one of them
in two. " See !" said he to Stutz, holding out to him the broken
dice, which, in fact, seemed loaded with lead. " Stop, vile impostor !"
exclaimed the young man, as Schroll was preparing to quit the room
in the greatest confusion ; and he threw the dice at him, one of which
lodged in his right eye. The tumult increased ; the police came in
;
and Stutz was apprehended, as SchrolPs wound assumed a very dan-
gerous appearance.
Next day, Schroll was in a violent fever. He asked repeatedly for
Stutz. But Stutz had been committed to close confinement ; it hav-
ing been found that he had travelled with false passes. He now
confessed that he was one of the sons of the mutineer Weber ; that
his sickly mother had died soon after his father's execution ; and
that himself and his brother, left without the control of guardians,
and without support, had taken to bad courses.
On hearing this report, Schroll rapidly worsened ; and he unfolded
to a young clergyman his whole unfortunate history. About mid-
night, he sent again in great haste for the clergyman. He came :
but, at sight of him, Schroll stretched out his hands in extremity of
horror, and waved him away from his presence ; but, before his sig-
nals were complied with, the wretched man had expired in convul-
sions.
From this horror at the sight of the young clergyman, and from
the astonishment of the clergyman himself, on arriving and hearing
that he had already been seen in the sick-room, it was inferred that
his figure had been assumed for fiendish purposes. The dice and the
strange cavalier disappeared at the same time with their wretched
victim ; and were seen no more.
112
CIRCLE I. — SECT. VI.
Afoful Apparition
CHEVALIER DE SAXE, INVOKED BY SCHREPFER.
The man who exhibited at Dresden this extraordinary proof of his
art, for such it must, in every case, be esteemed, was a person of the
name of Schrepfer, who originally resided at Leipsic, of which city
he was a native, and where he kept a coffee-house. But, his busi-
ness not producing him either as much profit or as much distinction
as he aspired to possess, he began to study magic, and is said to have
acquired many secrets or powers connected with that wonderful
science. He boldly asserted that he had intercourse with, and a con-
trol over spirits, whom he could summon, command, and cause to
disappear, if not altogether at his pleasure, yet by the force of his
invocations. These agents he had the ingenuity to divide into three
classes
—
the friendly, the evil, and the neutral: all of whom he knew
how to distinguish at their approach, or on their appearance, by
the sounds or noises which preceded and attended them. Whenever
he affected to exert his magical powers, he always began by calling
to his assistance the benevolent spirits ; in order, as he said, to defend
him against the attacks of the malignant ones. Pretensions so extra-
ordinary, sustained by some exhibitions which impressed the specta-
tors with astonishment, soon procured him no little reputation.
Schrepfer, about this time, while he still resided at Leipsic, had
given offence to Prince Charles of Saxony, by some expressions rela-
tive to him, of an unbecoming or insolent nature. The prince, irri-
tated at such conduct, ordered an officer belonging to his household
to repair to Leipsic, and there to inflict on Schrepfer, in his name,
personal chastisement. His orders were exactly executed : but
Schrepfer, though he attempted no other resistance, running into a
corner of the room, threw himself on his knees, and loudly invoked
his invisible allies to come to his assistance. Their visible appear-
THE NECROMANCER. 113
ance or interposition were, however, unnecessary in order to rescue
him from further violence : the officer, it is asserted, having been so
much alarmed at the invocation and its possible consequences, as to
quit the chamber with the utmost precipitation.
A circumstance of such notoriety, as well as so degrading in itself
to Schrepfer, induced him to leave Leipsic. After an absence of some
time, he appeared at Dresden, where he assumed a fictitious name,
and announced that he was a colonel in the service of France. In
that quality, he even made an attempt to be presented to the elector;
but Monsieur de Marbois, who acted as charge d'affaires in the
absence of the French envoy, refused to carry him to court. His
real name soon became known; and his pretences to skill in magic
attracting many followers, his reputation speedily reached Prince
Charles. It was accompanied with such extraordinary accounts of
Schrepfer's powers as to induce that prince to make every exertion,
for obliterating the recollection of the indignity lately offered him.
As one step towards it, he did not hesitate to go in person to the
u Hotel de Pologne," an inn where Schrepfer lodged ; and, in pre-
sence of various witnesses, to ask his pardon for the blows given him,
as well as to offer every amends that the nature of the affront ad-
mitted. Schrepfer, flattered by such a condescension, having
accepted the apologies, the prince then requested to see some proofs
of his supernatural art. It is said that he exhibited many ; all of
which only tended to augment the prince's admiration, and to stimu-
late his curiosity for further specimens.
But the most difficult or sublime operation of magic in all ages has
been to raise departed spirits from the tomb : a prodigy which
Schrepfer made no secret of his ability to perform. Prince Charles
having earnestly, as well as repeatedly, besought it of him, after
many refusals, obtained at length a reluctant promise to present
before his eyes an apparition : for Schrepfer always professed the
greatest repugnance and disinclination to the act, as being perilous
, to himself, and attended with various circumstances of horror. The
promise thus obtained, it only remained, therefore, to fix on the
spirit to be summoned from the tomb. After long consideration,
the Chevalier de Saxe was named, and Schrepfer undertook to
i
114 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
present his ghost, in a visible form, before a select company. The
place chosen for making the experiment was Prince Charles's palace
m Dresden. But, as it was well known that the elector, having the
misfortune to be neither credulous, nor inclined to permit such exhi-
bitions in his capital, might disapprove and prohibit it, the strictest
secrecy was observed previous to the affair.
The Chevalier de Saxe, third in order of birth, among the natural
sons of Augustus the Second, King of Poland, was only half brother
to the famous Marshal Count Saxe, as they were sprung from different
mothers. In right of his mother, who was a Princess Lubomirska, of a
very illustrious popish family, the chevalier inherited considerable
property in that country, as well as in Saxony. He resided principally
in Dresden, and died only a few years ago, at his palace in this city :
which his nephew Prince Charles, who became his principal heir, occu-
pied after his decease. In addition to his maternal estates, the chevalier
possessed a vast income from his military and other appointments in
the electoral service ; and, as he left no issue, he was supposed to have
amassed great sums. Reports had been circulated, that money was
concealed somewhere in the palace ; but no person pretended to
ascertain the precise place where it was deposited. If his spirit
could be compelled to appear by magic power, that interesting secret
might be extorted from him. Thus curiosity combining with the
hope of discovering a considerable treasure prompted Prince Charles,
as it is supposed, to name his uncle for the object of the experiment.
Schrepfer naturally preferring darkness, as not only more private
in itself, but every way better calculated for the effect of incantations,
the company assembled on the appointed night. They were nineteen
in number, of whom I personally know several, who are persons of
consideration, character, and respectability. When they were met
in the great gallery of Prince Charles's palace, the first object of all
present was to secure the windows and doors, in order equally to pre-
vent intrusion or deception. As far as precaution could effect it,
they did so ; and were satisfied that nothing except violence could
procure access or entrance. Schrepfer then acquainted them, that
the act which he was about to perform would demand all their firm-
ness : and advised them to fortify their nerves by partaking of a
THE NECROMANCER. 115
bowl of punch, which was placed upon the table. Several of them
(indeed, as I believe, all except one or two, thinking the exhortation
judicious), very readily followed it; but the gentleman from whom
I received these particulars declined to profit by the advice. " I am
come here," said he to Schrepfer, M to be present at raising an ap-
parition. Either I will see all, or nothing. My resolution is taken,
and no inducement can make me put anything within my lips."
Another of the company, who preserved his presence of mind, placed
himself close to the principal door, in order to watch if any one
attempted to open or to force it. These preparatory steps being
taken, the great work began with the utmost solemnity.
Schrepfer commenced it, by retiring into a corner of the gallery,
where kneeling down, with many mysterious ceremonies he invoked
the spirits to appear, and aid his design. A very considerable time
elapsed before they obeyed: during which interval, he laboured ap-
parently under great agitation of body and mind, being covered with
a violent sweat, and almost in convulsions, like the Pythoness of
antiquity. At length, a loud clatter was heard at all the windows on
the outside ; which was soon followed by another noise, resembling
more the effect produced by a number of wet fingers drawn over the
edge of glasses than anything else to which it could well be com-
pared. This sound announced, as he said, the arrival of his
good or protecting spirits, and seemed to encourage him to proceed
in his incantation. A short time afterwards a yelling was heard, of
a frightful and unusual nature, which came, as he declared, from the
malignant spirits, whose presence, as it seems, was necessary and
indispensable to the completion of the catastrophe.
The company were now, at least the greater part of them, electri-
fied with amazement or petrified with horror ; and, of course, fully
prepared for every object or appearance which could be presented to
their view. Schrepfer continuing his invocations, the door suddenly
opened with violence, and something that resembled a black ball or
globe rolled into the room. It was invested with smoke or cloud,
in the midst of which appeared to be a human face, like the counte-
nance of the Chevalier de Saxe ; much in the same manner, it would
seem, that Coreggio or Annibale Caracci have represented Jupiter
i 2
116 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURV.
appearing to Semele. From this form issued a loud and angry
voice, which exclaimed in German, " Carl, was wolte du mit mich ?' y
" Charles, what wouldst thou vrith me ? Why dost thou disturb me?"
Language is inadequate to describe the consternation produced
among the assembled spectators at so awful a sight. Either firmly
persuaded that the appearance which they beheld was spiritual and
intangible, or deprived of resolution to approach and attempt to
seize it, they appear to have made no effort to satisfy themselves of
its incorporeal nature. The prince, whose imprudent curiosity had
summoned his uncle's ghost, and to whom, as the person principally
responsible, the spectre addressed itself, far from manifesting self-
possession, or attempting any reply, betrayed the strongest marks of
horror and contrition. Throwing himself on his knees, he called on
Heaven for mercy ; while others of the terrified party earnestly be-
sought the magician to give the only remaining proof of his art for
which they now were anxious, by dismissing the apparition. But
Schrepfer, though apparently willing to gratify them, found, or pre-
tended to find, this effort beyond his power. However incredible it
may be thought, the persons who witnessed the scene protest that near
an hour elapsed, before, by the force of his invocations, the spectre
could be compelled to disappear. Nay, when at length Schrepfer had
succeeded in dismissing it, at the moment that the company began
to resume a degree of serenity, the door, which had been closed, burst
open again, and the same hideous form presented itself anew to their
eyes. The most resolute and collected among them were not proof
to its second appearance, and a scene of universal dismay ensued.
Schrepfer, however, by reiterated exorcisms or exertions, finally dis-
missed the apparition. The terrified spectators soon dispersed, over-
come with amazement, and fully satisfied, as they well might be, of
Schrepfer's supernatural powers.
Having thus related, as seriously and circumstantially as I am able,
the principal facts relative to the affair in question, it is natural to
ask my own opinion of the story ; and to demand whether I can
explain or account for it in any rational manner. To such inquiries
I must frankly reply, that 1 can neither give any satisfactory solution
of it, nor have 1 heard any attempted, except the obvious and general
THE NECROMANCER. 117
one of human credulity and terror, operated upon by imposture and
deception. But, the manner in which so wonderful an illusion was
produced, I am, in common with every person here, at a loss to
understand. I believe, no man has yet clearly explained how the
liquefaction of St. Januarius's blood ie performed ; though, out of
Naples, I imagine few persons attribute it to miraculous or superna-
tural interposition. We know, from experience, how prodigious are
the deceptions practised in and upon optics. Nineteen men, met
together for the avowed purpose of seeing an apparition, and believ-
ing that it is in human power to render a departed spirit visible, are
already half subdued to any imposition, however gross. Night, dark-
ness, and the imposing solemnity of magic invocations, bereave the
strongest minds of their self-possession. A bold and artful impostor
might then trample on their reason, and present to their eyes some
hideous figure properly accoutred for the occasion. It must, how-
ever, always excite some astonishment and more regret, that among
near twenty persons, not one should have endeavoured to lay hands
on the spectre. Its second appearance is likewise a circumstance
very difficult to account for, as it was unnecessary in order to
produce conviction, which had been fully effected. And if it was
a deception, it was an extraordinary one : and how it was ma-
naged or produced, the persons who were duped have either not yet
discovered, or they do not think proper to disclose. They are all,
or nearly all, still alive in this country, and they by no means boast
of their adventure, or derive from it any sort of vanity. On the con-
trary, independent of the ridicule annexed to it, they all feel and ex-
press the utmost repugnance to relating, or even to recollecting a
scene, which has impressed on their imagination so much horror.
Their friends dread and deprecate a renewal of the images then pre-
sented to those who were present ; and a lady earnestly besought of
me, not to press her husband on a subject, of which he could never
think or converse without passing a sleepless night.
The relation no sooner spread through Dresden than the elector
expressed his disapprobation of such scenes, and issued his peremp-
tory injunctions not to repeat them. Schrepfer soon retired to his
native city, Lcipsic ; where his fame accompanied him, and drew
118 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
after him a crowd of disciples or votaries. To them he continued to
give, as is confidently asserted here, numerous and astonishing proofs
of his supernatural power, some of which I have heard related ; but
after the specimen that I have detailed, all others would be at once
tedious and superfluous. Schrepfer did not long enjoy his celebrity,
and his death is not the least extraordinary part of his history. Three
gentlemen, whom he had in some measure initiated into his mysteries
(for he professed to instruct in the science of magic), were promised
by him an exhibition more wonderful than any at which they had
yet assisted. For this purpose, they attended him into the wood of
Rosendaal, which is at a small distance without the gates of Leipsic.
It was in summer, before the sun rose, between three and four o'clock
in the morning. When they came to a certain part of the grove, he
desired them to remain there a little, while he went on one side, to
make the requisite invocations. After waiting a few minutes, they
heard the report of a pistol. Hastening to the spot, they found that
he had shot himself, and was already without sense. He soon after-
wards expired. All those who believe him to have had intercourse
with evil spirits, affirm that he was tormented by them perpetually,
which rendering his life miserable, induced him to have recourse to
a pistol. I imagine, however, you will think with Horace, that it is
not necessary to call in supernatural interference, in order to account
for the violent end of such a man. He has left behind him many
proselytes ; but, I believe, no one who pretends to equal knowledge
of his secrets.
T. M. Jarvis, Esq.
119
CIRCLE I.—SECT. VIII.
®f)t JWtitatg&t £tarm.
A TRUE RELATION, FROM THE FRENCH.
Of shapes that walk
At dead of night, and clank their chains, and wave
The torch of hell around the murderer's bed."
ON^the evening of the 12th June, , a joyous party was assem-
bled at Monsieur de Montbrun's chateau to celebrate the marriage of
his nephew, who had, in the morn of that day, led to the altar the
long-sought object of his fond attachment. The mansion, which
was on this occasion the scene of merriment, was situated in the pro-
vince of Gascony, at no very great distance from the town of .
It was a venerable building, erected during the war of the League,
and consequently discovered in its exterior some traces of that spe-
cies of architecture which endeavoured to unite strength and massive-
ness with domestic comfort. Situated in a romantic, but thinly-
peopled district, the family of Monsieur de Montbrun was compelled
principally to rely on itself for amusement and society. This family
consisted of the chevalier, an old soldier of blunt but hospitable
manners; his nephew, the bridegroom, whom (having no male chil-
dren) he had adopted as his son, and Mademoiselle Emily, his qnly
daughter : the latter was amiable, frank, and generous; warm in
her attachments, but rather romantic in forming them. Employed
in rural sports and occupations, and particularly attached to botany,
for which the country around afforded an inexhaustible field, the
chevalier and his inmates had not much cultivated the intimacy of
the few families which disgust of the world, or other motives, had
planted in this retired spot. Occasional visits, exchanged with the
nearest of their neighbours, sometimes enlivened their small circle ;
and with the greater part of those who lived at a distance, they were
scarcely acquainted even by name.
The approaching nuptials, however, of Theodore (which was the
name of Monsieur de Montbrun's adopted son) excited considerable
120 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. -
conversation in the adjacent district : and the wedding of her cousin,
it was determined by Emily, should not pass off unaccompanied by
every festivity which the nature of their situation, and the joyfulness
of the event, would allow. On this occasion, therefore, inquiries
were made as to all the neighbouring gentry within a considerable
distance around ; and there were none of the least note neglected in
the invitations, which were scattered in all directions. Many per-
sons were consequently present, with whose persons and character
the host and his family were unacquainted : some also accepted the
summons, who were strangers to them even by name.
Emily was attentive and courteous to all ; but to one lady in par-
ticular she attached herself, during the entertainment, with most se-
dulous regard. Madame de Nunez, the immediate object of Emily's
care, had lately settled in the neighbourhood, and had hitherto stu-
died to shun society. It was supposed that she was the widow of a
Spanish officer of the Walloon guards, to whom she had been fondly
attached ; indeed so much so, that, notwithstanding he had been
dead several years, the lady never appeared but in deep mourning.
She had only lately settled in Gascony ; but her motives for retiring
from Spain, and fixing on the French side of the Pyrenees, were not
known, and but slightly conjectured. Isabella de Nunez was about
twenty-eight years of age, tall, and well-formed : her countenance
was striking, nay even handsome ; but a nice physiognomist would
have traced in her features evidence of the stronger passions of hu-
man nature. He would have seen pride softened by distress, and
would have fancied, at times, that the effects of some concealed
crime were still evident in her knit brow and retiring eye, when she
became the object of marked scrutiny.
She had never before entered the chateau de Montbrun, and her
person had hitherto been unnoticed by Emily ; but who, having
now seen her, devoted herself with ardour to her new friend. The
lady received the attentions of her amiable hostess with grateful but
dignified reserve.
The morning had been extremely sultry, and an oppressive sensa-
tion in the air, which disordered respiration, threw, as the day closed,
an air of gloom over the company, ill suited to the occasion of their
THE NECROMANCER. 121
meeting. Madame de Nunez appeared, more than any one else, to
feel the effects of the lurid atmosphere : the occasional sparks of gai-
ety which she had discovered gradually disappeared ; and before
the day had entirely closed she seemed at times perfectly abstracted,
and at other times to start with causeless apprehension. In order to
divert or dispel this increasing uneasiness, which threatened to de-
stroy all the pleasure of the festival, dancing was proposed ; and the
enlivening sounds of the music in a short time dissipated the tem-
porary gloom. The dancing had not however long continued, ere
the expected storm burst in all its fury on the chateau : the thunder,
with its continued roar, reverberated by the adjoining mountains,
caused the utmost alarm in the bosom of the fair visitors ; the tor-
rents of rain which fell might almost be said to swell the waters of
the neighbouring Garonne, whilst sheets of lightning, reflected on
its broad waves, gave a deeper horror to the pitchy darkness which
succeeded. The continuance of the storm gradually wound up the
apprehensions of the greater part of the females to horror ; and they
took refuge in the arched vaults and long subterranean passages
which branched beneath the chateau, from the vivid glare of the
lightning: although unable to shut their ears to the reiterated claps
of thunder which threatened to shake the building to its foundations.
In this general scene of horror, Isabella alone appeared unappalled.
The alternate abstraction and alarm, which before seemed to harrass
her mind, had now vanished, and had given place to a character of
resignation which might almost be considered as bordering on apathy;
while the younger females yielded without resistance to the increas-
ing horrors of the tempest, and by frequent shrieks and exclamations
of dread bore testimony to the terror excited in their bosoms by the
aggravated circumstances of the scene, she suffered no symptom of
apprehension to be visible in her now unvarying features. Agitation
had yielded to quiet : she sat ostensibly placid ; but her apparent
inattention was evidently not the effect of tranquillity, but the result
of persevering exertion.
The hour was approaching towards midnight ; and the storm, in-
stead of blowing over, having increased in violence, the hospitable
owner of the mansion proposed to his guests, that they should aban-
122 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
don the idea of returning home through the torrents of rain, which
had already deluged the country, and rendered the roads in the vi-
cinity impassable ; but should accommodate themselves, with as
little difficulty as possible, to the only plan now to be devised,—of
making themselves easy during the remainder of this dismal ni^ht.
Although his mansion was not extensive, yet he proposed (with the
aid of temporary couches, and putting the ladies to the inconveni-
ence of sleeping two in each room) to render the party as comfort-
able as his means would allow ; and which would, at all events, be
more agreeable than braving abroad the horrors of the tempest.
Reasonable as such a plan was in itself, it was still more strongly
recommended by the circumstance, that the carriages which were
expected to convey the parties to their respective abodes had not ar-
rived ; and, from the state of the roads, and the continuance of the
still pitiless storm, it seemed visionary to expect them.
The party, therefore, yielded without regret to the offered arrange-
ment, save with one dissenting voice. The fair Spaniard alone po-
sitively declined the offered accommodation. Argument in vain was
used for a considerable space of time to detain her : she positively
insisted on returning home ; and would alone, in the dark, have
faced the storm, had not an obstacle which appeared invincible mi-
litated against her resolve; this was too imperious to be resisted—
-
her carriage and servants were not arrived ; and, from the represen-
tation of Monsieur de Montbrun's domestics (some of whom had been
detached to examine the condition of the neighbouring roads), it was
perfectly clear, that with that part of the district in which she re-
sided no communication could for several hours take place. Madame
de Nunez, therefore, at length yielded to necessity ; although the
pertinacity of her resistance had already excited much surprise, and
called forth innumerable conjectures.
The arrangements between the respective parties were soon made,
and the greater part of the ladies gladly retired to seek repose from
the harrassing events of the day. Emily, who had not relaxed in her
marked attention to her interesting friend, warmly pressed her to
share her own room, in which a sofa had been prepared as a couch,
and to which she herself insisted on retiring, while Madame de Nit-
THE NECROMANCER. 123
nez should take possession of the bed. The latter, however, again
strenuously objected to this plan, asserting, that she should prefer
remaining all night in one of the sitting-rooms, with no other com-
panion than a book. She appeared obstinately to adhere to this re-
solution, until Emily politely, yet positively, declared, that were
such the intention of her new friend, she would also join her in the
saloon, and.pass the time in conversation until the day should break,
or until Madame's servants should arrive. This proposition, or ra-
ther determination, was received by the frowning Isabella with an
air of visible chagrin and disappointment, not altogether polite. She
expressed her unwillingness that Mademoiselle should be inconve-
nienced, with some peevishness; but which, however, soon gave
place to her former air of good-breeding.
She now appeared anxious to hurry to her room ; and the rest of
the party having some time retired, she was escorted thither by the
ever attentive Emily. No sooner had they reached the chamber,
than Isabella sunk into a chair ; and, after struggling for some time
in evident emotion for utterance, at length exclaimed :
—
M Why, dearest Emily, would you insist on sharing with me the
horrors of this night ? To me the punishment is a merited one :
but to you"
" What, my dearest madam, do you say ?" replied Emily affec-
tionately—" The terrors of the night are over : the thunder appears
retiring, and the lightning is less vivid ; and see in the west (added
she, as she went to the window) there are still some remains of the
summer twilight. Do not any longer, then, suffer the apprehensions
of the storm which has passed over us to disturb the repose which
you will, I hope, so shortly enjoy."
" Talk you of repose !" said Madame de Nunez, in a voice almost
choaked with agitation—" Know you not, then, that on the anni-
versary of this horrid night ?—-—but what am I saying ?—to you, at
present, all this is mystery ; too soon your own feelings will add con-
viction to the terrible experience which six revolving years have af-
forded me, and which, even now, but to think on harrows up my
soul. —But no more"
—
Then darting suddenly towards the door, which had hitherto re-
124 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
mained ajar, she closed it with violence ; and, locking it, withdrew
the key, which she placed in her own pocket.—Emily had scarcely
time to express her surprise at this action and the apparent distrac-
tion which accompanied it, ere Madame de Nunez seized both her
hands with more than female strength, and with a maddened voice
and eye straining on vacancy, exclaimed :
—
"Bear witness, ye powers of terror ! that I imposed not this dread-
ful scene on the female whose oath must now secure her silence."
Then staring wildly on Mademoiselle de Montbrun, she continued :
" Why, foolish girl, wouldst thou insist on my partaking thy bed ?
The viper might have coiled in thy bosom ; the midnight assassin
might have aimed his dagger at thy breast—but the poison of the
one would have been less fatal, and the apprehension of instant an-
nihilation from the other would have been less oppressive, than the
harrowing scene which thou art doomed this night to witness
—
doomed, I say ; for all the powers of hell, whose orgies you must be-
hold, cannot release you from the spectacle which you have volun-
tarily sought."
" To what am I doomed I" cried Emily, whose fears for herself
were lessened in the dread she felt for her friend's intellects, which
she supposed were suddenly become affected by illness, or from the
incidents of the past day.
Isabella, after a silence of several minutes, during which she en-
deavoured to recover some degree of composure, in a softened but
determined voice, said :—
" Think not, my friend (if I may use that endearing expression
to one whose early prospects and happier days I am unwillingly con-
demned to blast), that disorder has produced the agitation which,
spite of myself, you have witnessed.—Alas ! great as have been my
sorrows, and heavy as my crime weighs on me, my reason has still
preserved its throne : to seek oblivion in idiotcy—to bury the re-
membrance of my fatal error in temporary derangement—would, I
might almost say, be happiness to me. But fate has forbidden such
an alleviation, and my impending destiny, which is not to be guarded
against by precaution, cannot be avoided by repentance."
"Nay," said Emily, "exaggerated as your self-condemnation
THE NECROMANCER. 125
makes the fault to which you allude appear, in religion you may
find a solace which could efface crimes of much deeper dye than any
with which you can possibly charge yourself."
**
Ah ! no," replied the fair Spaniard.—" Religion, it is true,
holds out her benignant hand to receive the wandering sinner ; —she
offers to the stranger a home ; she welcomes to her bosom the re-
pentant though blood-stained criminal ;
—but for crimes like mine,
what penitence can atone ? —But we waste time," added she ; "the
midnight hour approaches ; and ere the clock in the turret first an-
nounces that dreaded period, much must be done."
Thus saying, she went into the adjoining oratory, and, finding on
the little altar at which Emily offered her daily orisons, an ivory
crucifix, she returned with it in her hand ; and again seizing and
forcibly grasping the hand of her now really alarmed hostess, she
exclaimed in a hollow, yet determined voice :
—
" Swear, that whatsoever you may this night, this eventful night,
be a witness to, not all the apprehensions of hell, not all your hopes
of heaven, shall tempt you to reveal, until I am committed to the
silent tomb—Swear !"
Emily for a moment hesitated to adopt an oath imposed under
circumstances of such an extraordinary nature : but whilst she was
debating, Madame de Nunez, more violently grasping her hand, ex-
claimed, in a voice harsh from agitation :—
" Swear; or dread the event
!"
<£
Swear I" Emily fancied she heard echoed from the oratory.
Almost sinking with horror, she faintly repeated the solemn oath,
which the frantic female, whose character appeared so perfectly
changed, dictated to her.
She had no sooner thus solemnly bound herself to silence, than
Madame de Nunez's agitation appeared to subside ; she replaced the
crucifix on the altar, and sinking on her knees before the chair in
which Emily, almost void of animation, was seated, she feebly ex-
claimed :
—
"Pardon, dearest Emily, the madness of my conduct; necessity
has dictated it towards you ; and your wayward fate, and not your
suffering friend, is answerable for it. For six long years have I con-
126 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
fined to my own bosom the horrors which we this night must jointly
witness. On the anniversary of this day—But I dare not yet com-
municate the dreadful event ; some hours hence I may recover com-
posure to relate it : but remember your oath. While I live, the
secret is buried in your bosom. You must have remarked my un-
willingness to remain in your dwelling ;
you could not have been
inattentive to my repugnance to share your room—too soon you will
have a dreadful explanation of the cause. Be not angry with me
—
I must endeavour to conceal the circumstances which' appal my soul:
I must still preserve the respect of society, although I have for ever
forfeited my own—hence the oath I have imposed on you. But"
—
Here further conversation was interrupted by the sound of the tur-
ret clock, which began to strike the hour of midnight. It had
scarcely finished, ere the slow rolling of a carriage was heard in the
paved court-yard ; at the noise of which, Madame de Nunez started
from the posture in which she had continued at the feet of Emily,
and rushed towards the door, which she had previously locked.
Emily now heard heavy footsteps ascending the oaken staircase ; and
before she could recall her recollection, which so singular a circum-
stance had bewildered, the door of the room in which they were sit-
ting, spite of its fastening, slowly moved on its hinges; and in the
next minute Emily sunk on the earth in a state of stupefaction.
It is well for the human frame, that, when assailed by circum-
stances too powerful to support, it seeks shelter in oblivion. The
mind recoils from the horrors which it cannot meet, and is driven
into insensibility*
At an early hour of the ensuing morning Madame de Nunez quit-
ted Monsieur de Montbrun's chateau, accompanied by her servants,
whom the retiring torrents had permitted to await their mistress's
commands. She took a hasty farewell of the master of the mansion,
and, without making any inquiries as to the rest of the party, de-
parted.
At the usual hour of breakfast, Emily did not appear; and her
father at length went to her room door, and, receiving no answer to
his inquiries, went in. Judge his horror, when he discovered his
daughter lying on the bed in the cjothes she had worn the preceding
THE NECROMANCER. 127
day, but in a state of apparent insensibility. Immediate medical as-
sistance was procured, and she at length discovered symptoms of
returning life ; but no sooner had she recovered her recollection,
than, looking with horror and affright around her, she again relapsed
into a state of inanimation. Repeated cordials being administered,
she was again restored to life ; but only to become the victim of a
brain-fever, which in a few days put a period to her existence. In
a short interval of recollection, in the early part of illness, she
confided what we have here related to her father : but conscienti-
ously kept from his knowledge what she was bound by her oath to
conceal. The very remembrance of what she had witnessed on that
fatal night hurried her into delirium, and she fell a victim to the
force of recollection.
Madame de Nunez did not long survive her : but expired under
circumstances of unexampled horror.
128
ILLUSTRATION, No. V,
CIRCLE II.-SECT. I.
THE CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE,
Exemplifying the Power of Astral Agency over Kingdoms, States, and
Individuals.
ON THE ADVANTAGE OF CONSULTING
When any great Enterprise is on Foot ; and the Disastrous Conse-
quences that attend a Negligence of this Precaution,
There is a disposition, in almost every person of every class, to
monopolize, as far as each is able, the good things of this world ; but,
in the means of effecting it, the richer have infinitely the best of it
over the poorer. This would be all fair enough if they would prac-
tise their manoeuvres more fairly : but they do things so studiously
sly and artful, that it is scarcely possible for common folks to be any
thing like even with them. The great complaint that I have against
them is, that, almost unexceptionably, they are condemning publicly
CIIJtOXICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 12&
in others that which they are privately practising in their closets ;
and, by way of reconciling conscience to certain underhand practices,
and to saying one thing and doing the contrary, they take care to
call every thing they say and do, in overreaching one another, by
the term policy ; which word, though it covers almost every moral
crime you can mention, does not happen to have been entered down
in the black catalogue ; so that your political sinners are altogether
exempt from the penalties of absolution. Now we will put a case,
by way of instancing the truth of the proposition which led me to
these remarks, namely, the upper-hand which the great have of
their inferiors in getting into their clutches the good things of this
world.
BONAPARTE CONSTANTLY CONSULTED FENDING
OMENS.
The greatest rulers, and statesmen, and chiefs, of the present
age, are unanimous in setting all their emissaries to cry down astro-
logy as incompatible with sense and reason, and every thing else
that is esteemed good. And what do you suppose the meaning of
this dexterous, yet over-cunning game is ? —Why, nothing more nor
less but to engross to themselves the advantages of exclusively con-
sulting a science alone capable of instructing them when to bring
forward their measures with the most certain prospect of success ;
and when to forbear, and avoid precarious schemes and enterprises :
and if those to whom such crafty wights are opposed happen not to
be aware of the astrological advantage taken of them, they are as
good as beaten before they meet their adversary. Bonaparte was
famous in this sort of forehand advantage, and always took care to
have at his elbow adepts of a first-rate order in the horoscopic prin-
ciple : but though he was so addicted to chicanery, yet he is said to
have been manly and honourable in his application of the occult
sciences. The extraordinary strides of the Corsican adventurer to-
wards the summit of earthly fame, and his complete attainment of
his ambitious object, was, as I am able to prove, more owing to the
sage forecast of his chief astrologer than to the capacities of his own
mind, or the wisdom of his administrations : and it was from acting
K
130 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
in direct opposition to the adviser who had been the chief instrument
of his elevation, that he, in the end, sunk beneath disasters. —Having
surmounted with his throne the highest pinnacle of the world, at
taking his seat upon it he saw himself so environed with vassal king-
doms, that he fancied even fate could not upset him ; and, growing
giddy with the vanities that dazzled him on his lofty seat, he lost
sight of his obligations to astrology, persisting in the pursuit of pro-
jects in downright defiance of the inauspicious posture of his stars,
instead of waiting patiently in his palace, as warned by his discreet
philosopher, until the virulence of the unfortunate aspects was abated
;
and we all know well enough what was the consequence.
ILLUSTRATION, No. VI,
NX
SIGNS UNDER WHICH MR. HARRIS'S BALLOON
ASCENDED.
But without going to times past and foreign countries for instances
of the consequences of neglecting astrological precaution, scarcely a
day passes over that does not furnish the observer of signs with some
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 131
sorrowful case which a little foresight might serve to prevent : and
it is with the most philanthropic sensibility that 1 advert to a cir-
cumstance illustrative of astrological influence over individuals.
While I sympathize with his dearest friends in lamenting the un-
timely death of Mr. Harris, who, when he ascended into the
clouds in his balloon, bade them, and the thousands whose cheers
accompanied him, farewell for ever, T feel it necessary to say, for
the good of other intrepid and enterprising candidates for popular
applause, that no gallant adventurer should have exposed himself to
a danger that admitted of delay, under the fatal prognostics that
were pending. The planet Jupiter came into the point of the
sDraGOti'0 tail in the ominous sign lancet but a few hours pre-
ceding the ascent ; the planet having been, at the precise moment
of his baleful transit of the node, in a partil square with the moon.
This any one, who understands the least of the science, will say is
enough : for there are records of all ages to testify, that such an
aspect could not be expected to pass by without leaving behind it
many fresh examples of its fatality ; and a forewarning which por-
tends death, or indeed accidental mischance, should not be tempted,
on any consideration, by those who embark in aerial expeditions.
—
The reason I give of the life of his fair companion having been so
wonderfully preserved, is, that 2Jenu0, (Seorcmm Sitltw, and
$9ar0, being mutually in trine with one another, was a most
lucky aspect for her, as a female, and foreshowed her recovery. *
* At the time Mr. Harris ascended in his balloon, May 25th, 1824, four hours,
nine minutes, p. m , the sign %ihva arose in the horizon, and Saturn was in the
house of Death, with IDenutf, lady of the 2t£cenbant, and significater of the aero-
naut, applying to the fatal conjunction of this baneful star, who also ruled the
fourth house, and thus plainly showed the fatal conclusion which took place
!
K 2
132
ILLUSTRATION, No. VII.
REVIEW OF THE OMENS BY WHICH THE DEATH OF
LORD BYRON WAS PREFIGURED.
From the intellectual summit which Lord Byron had gained—from
the purely liberal principles which he sought to diffuse—and from
the active share he had taken in restoring the freedom of oppressed
Greece, it is not to be supposed that a character so distinguished
would be suddenly called off for ever from the theatre of glory, in
which he was playing so honourable a part, without some signally
portentous omen.
Though his constitution had previously faltered, it was not until
the 9th of April, that any prognostics of a serious nature manifested
themselves. From the 9th to the 19th of April, on which day he
died, violent inflammations of the chest appear to have rapidly
increased ; and some phenomena of rather an extraordinary nature
presented themselves, during the course of the fourteen days prior to
his death, which pretty strongly bespoke the sorrowful result. The
quartile of the &im and 6eoreium £>iTux8 on the 5th, from the cardinal
CHRONICLE OP CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 133
signs 3rie0 and Capricorn, if we consider England as under 8rie0, and
Greece as under Capricorn, is an aspect well worthy to be remarked.
We should, moreover, in looking at this position, observe, that the
(ffieorgium planet is in the house of Saturn and exaltation of S@ar0,
opposed to 31upitcr in his exaltation of Gemini ; 3fupiter being at the
same time in occultation by the $£oon, applying to the Dragon'0
tEail t which is even in itself an omen of very fatal nature, and of
very rare occurrence. 3fupitejct
though not closely besieged, is still
attacked on either side by the infortunes Saturn and $$ar0, the
latter being retrograde ; which is altogether as violent a combi-
nation of aspects as could well prevail. We have still, in addi-
tion to these, the conjunction of the £>im and $$ercurp on the
12th, in 8rie0 : which combust synod is strongly indicative of
fever. These I point out as the leading aspects from which a judg-
ment must be drawn. Although, no doubt, they had each more or
less .effect in producing the calamity ; yet, when I consider the
nature of the disease, and the peculiar influence of the sign lancet,
and of the planet Jupiter in that sign, on the viscera, lungs, blood,
and so forth—when I still farther take the interposition of the $$ootl
in that sign, eclipsing 3fupiter—experience authorizes me to regard
this as the fatal omen, and to say, that death would not have ensued
had not this aspect prevailed in combination with those before
specified.
CIRCLE II.—SECT. II.
ASTROLOGICAL INTERPRETATION
OF
25rt anU tf)t Uratjon*
In the first ages of science and learning men could not write down
what they wanted to remember, because letters had not been invented
;
and their way of commemorating things was, by drawing pictures
of the things themselves, or by emblems, that conveyed an idea of
what they wished to record through some mysterious representation ;
134 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
and those emblems used in astrology were called by the general term
signs. Hence, in those days, the astrologer carried on the whole
system of his science by a system of mysterious signs ; and this is
the reason why each of the several divisions of the starry heavens is,
to the present hour, called by astronomers, a sign.
No person possessing the least knowledge of history requires to be
told, that the Babylonians were one of the earliest people who carried
the science of astrology to any degree of eminence ; and, about 2400
years ago, when the Jews were carried captive into that country, the
nation was deeply corrupted with idolatry, and the chief deity they
worshipped was called Bel. The history also informs us, that, " in
that same place there was a great dragon which they of Babylon
worshipped." Now I am going to show you that this Bel, and this
Dragon, were nothing more originally than astrological emblems, or
devices, or hieroglyphics, used for the same purpose as we use words.
But, wonderful as it may seem to us in out time, it is, nevertheless, a
fact, that the priests of those days were very fond of what is com-
monly called " good living;" and, for the sake of securing it snugly
to themselves, they succeeded in making the king and people believe,
that Bel and the Dragon were the only deities of the world.
THE BABYLONIAN DEITY « BEL,"—WHO HE WAS, AND
WHAT HE WAS.
The best authority which the present age affords concerning the
mythology of the most ancient times upon which we can look back,
is furnished by the author of "Sabaean Researches," a work recently
published, and which cannot fail to rank among the richest orna-
ments of the British press, from the choice and sterling worth which
it contains relative to the arts, the sciences, the customs, and the
records of nations long since extinct, and almost in oblivion.
" The construction," says this author, " of the word Beelus is, I
believe, neither exactly Chaldean, Cufic, Arabic, nor Hebrew."—
" By most scholars the radix is allowed to have been Bcel, Bel, or
Baal; which is, in fact, the same word varied by the different dia-
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 135
lectic pronunciations of the several Sabsean nations; of which Mede
says, that Bel was the local orthodox pronunciation of Babylon and
Chaldea; whilst Baal appears to have been that of the Canaanites
and Hebrews"—" being equivalent to Dominus of the Latin, and to
the word Lord of our own."—" The Greek mythologists appear,"
says he, " to have elaborated from this Lord or chief of the Sabaean
idolatry, both Jupiter and Apollo, the former as king of heaven, the
latter as the local deity of the sun. And this is accounted for with-
out the least circumlocution, and without room for the least suspicion
of the sophistries of scholastic refinement, when we recollect, that
the sun, and the king of heaven, were one and the same at
Babylon." Thus are we led to understand, that the image worship-
ped by the Babylonians, under the title of Bel, was the personi-
fied chief of the heavenly bodies,—3Tf>e j£un.
THE ASTROLOGICAL DRAGOiN WORSHIPPED AT
BABYLON.
Although it is very well known to astronomers and learned per-
sons, that the path of the moon through the firmament has, from
time immemorial, been symbolized by a dragon or serpent, yet many
through whose hands this work may be expected to pass, cannot be
supposed to have any notion of these ancient symbols ; it therefore
becomes necessary to make mention of them in such a manner as to
let every one understand their application. That no emblem could
have been fixed upon to symbolize the moon's path, which is really
serpentine, and to have done it more appropriately^ than a serpent,
will become evident to the least learned, by inspection of the follow-
ing little cut and references.
Suppose the curve line a b to represent a portion of the ecliptic or
orbit of the earth, along which let the earth be supposed to be moving
136 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
from e to f, and from f to g, while, at the same time, the moon,
keeping nearly an equal distance from the earth, moves along the
serpentine described by the body of the dragon, from c to H, from h
to i, from i to d : at c, where the moon crosses the line of the earth's
orbit, from north to south, is the Dragon's Tail, marked in modern
astronomy thus, <Q ; and having made the semicircle c H, it ascends,
crossing the earth's orbit from south to north, where it bends again
in the semicircle h i ; and having reached the earth's orbit again, it
bends forward in the direction of the curve I d, where, as it is again
ascending into the north, I place the Dragon's Head ; and thus you
see how very appropriately the moon's path about the earth may be
denoted by a serpent or dragon. For the sake of showing the appli-
cation of the emblem the more perfectly, it is here continued to four
points of the ecliptic; but let it be understood, that in every descent
of the moon from north to south, she is in the tail, and in every ascent
from south to north, in the head of the dragon. The most important
astrological significations are attached to the head and tail of this
emblematic dragon ; and hence it was deemed by the Babylonian
priesthood a fit object to promote superstition, and to effect the pur-
poses of that sort of imposture which it was their desire to accom-
plish in those oriental nations.
A PREDICTION.
Some of the signs before us indicate that nervous complaints, with
excessive debility and langour—also affections of the stomach and
bowels, are disorders that will be likely to come on during the ensuing
year ; and if they are accompanied with changes of the body from
heat to shivering, and alternately from flushings to paleness, these
attacks should be treated with the greatest skill and attention ; as
various humours of the system are shown to be increasing, and, if
not speedily removed, a long state of disease is likely to ensue in cases
where the constitution is delicate.
137
ILLUSTRATION, No. VIII.
CIRCLE II.—SECT. III.
KING RHEO RHIO AND QUEEN KAMCHAMEHA,
Sovereigns of Owyhee, Mowee, Manai, Morotoi, Tahoorowa, Woahoo,
Atooi, Neeheeheow, Oreehoua, Morotinne, and Tahoora,—vulgarly
called
THE SANDWICH ISLANDS.
REFLECTIONS ARISING FROM A SIGHT OF THESE STRANGERS.
The appearance of these extraordinary personages in this country
is an event which, look upon it as we may, furnishes matter of
curious reflection. Fifty years ago we were not acquainted with any
such kingdom, or any such race of men. When Cook paid them a
visit, perhaps it was the first they had ever had from the civilized
world : and living, as they do, amidst the dreary ocean, how great
must be their surprise at viewing the monstrous scene before them.
When discovered, they had, it may be said, then emerged from bar-
138 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
barism ; for, though in a state of nature, nearly, with regard to dress,
they had a government something such as we may fancy the original
patriarchal to have been—paternal on the one part, and filial on the
other. Their religion seems to have been conducted by a priest-
hood resembling the old druidical ; and, like their's, to have
been mixed with sacrificing; on some occasions, with sacrificing
human victims. Horrid as these rites seem to us, they prevailed
throughout all the original colonies of Scythia, which, at one
time, so spread themselves over the earth, as to include almost
every people ; and from which stock the remote isles of the South
Seas and Great Pacific Ocean bespeak their inhabitants to have
descended. The short term of the last forty years may have afforded
these distantly isolated people the opportunity of holding some little
intercourse with nations whose habits and manners have been artifi-
cially inculcated : yet these interviews cannot greatly have affected
their prejudices to their own customs ; so that we may look upon
them as very curious specimens of human nature, and as a part of
the most genuine remains of the first races of mankind, descended
from an experienced ancestry, that the whole circumference of the
world could set before us.
INTERVIEW OF THE "ASTROLOGER" WITH KING RHEO
RHIO.
Such curious exotics as this emperor and empress were, would ne-
cessarily attract the attention of "the Astrologer," whose travels are
taken for the purpose of making remarks on persons and things out
of the common way. He therefore took the opportunity of pay-
ing his respects to his Sandwich Eminency, at the British Museum.
It is very difficult to get at the nativities of persons so remotely born,
because, in the first place, their modes of keeping time are different
from our's ; and again> the difference of longitude, unless chrono-
meters of a like kind were used to mark the time of birth, and geo-
graphical distance, or some means equally correct, the problem
could not, at the best, be solved very satisfactorily. The only means,
therefore, of coming at any astrological conclusions must be by the
exterior, and by scientific associations of the aspects preceding their
coming to this country.
139
ILLUSTRATION, No. IX.
astrological Interpretation of tfie gi$n&
THAT SEEM TO HAVE BROUGHT HITHER THESE ROYAL
ISLANDERS, AND SHOW WHY THEY CAME.
Astrology will only serve to partially inform us why this
unprecedented embassage should arrive in England from the Great
Pacific Ocean. 3lupitei entered the sign Cancer, his house of
exaltation, the first of the watery triplicity, on the 31st of July,
1823, at six o'clock in the afternoon, and continued to keep
possession of it until the 18th of August 1824. £$arst
essen-
tially dignified as sole governor of this triplicity, entered the
same sign Cancer a week before 3fupiter, the sun having re-
signed possession of it on the 23d of the same month. It is to
be observed, that this is the sign which denotes great seas, and
previously, only a few days, to their entering it, a conjunction of
31upitet and $Par0 took place in tfemtni, which rules America,
including the more western islands. These aspects may well be
140 THE ASTUQLOGEIl OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
looked upon as governing the project of the voyage. On the 9th of
December, about the probable time of their entering upon their
voyage, flienufl promotes it by entering Scorpio, the second of the
watery triplicity, And unites the queen to the expedition. But anew
orb now makes its appearance, coming into conjunction with flJemw in
December,—I mean the comet which then became visible to us in
these latitudes, and passed with such extraordinary rapidity from
the southern into the higher regions of the northern hemisphere
;
having described, during the space of the two months that it conti-
nued visible, a whole quadrant of a great circle of the sphere. These
concomitant and very extraordinary aspects, together with some
others of minor import, contributed, no doubt, to cause the voyage
of these sovereigns from one side of the world to the other,—an
event which then caused great speculation as to the true cause of
their visit.
CIRCLE II.—SECT. IV.
OBSERVATIONS APPERTAINING TO THE PRESENT PLACE
OF Saturn, THE GREATER INFORTUNE.
As all the standard treatises upon astrology were written before
the discovery of <2>eoresium Sftus, the orbit of Saturn was always
supposed to be the highest, or that seated next the fixed stars.
Owing to his distance from the Sun, his motion is slow ; but from
this circumstance he is very powerful in his effects ; and, except by
some who build partial systems of astrology, he has ever been con-
sidered, from the severity of his action, a most malevolent planet,
and has consequently been termed the greater infortune.
His effect upon the minds of such as are born under his influence
is found, from experience, to be certain in making them reserved,
melancholy, fretful, repining, suspicious, covetous, and disposed to
look at the worst side of every thing. They are seldom very fortu-
nate in their undertakings, though very laborious and deliberate.
They are commonly persons neither very ingenious nor active ; —ca-
pable of sincere attachment to those they think their friends; but
very unforgiving, and even inclined to do ill, to their enemies.
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 14 I
If Saturn he oriental, he is said to make the native more stout,
tall, and hairy, than when he is occidental : and having north lati-
tude, subjects under him are still more strong, bony, corpulent, and
hairy, that when his latitude is south. The disorders which he in-
sinuates into the constitutions of those over whose birth he rules, are
ao-ues, apoplexies, black jaundice, atrophy, catarrh, phthisis, epi-
lepsy, tooth-ache, palsy, dropsy, leprosy, fistulas, nervous diseases,
and some others which proceed from coldness and obstructions. His
place in a nativity is unfortunate to the native throughout life ; there-
fore, he should be cautious in not entering into matrimonial specu-
lations with those governed by the same planet, nor travel nor trade
to any town or kingdom over which Saturn presides.
CIRCLE II.—SECT. V.
PRECAUTIONS RELATIVE TO THE PRESENT PROGRESS
OF Saturn THROUGH Gemini.
On the 8th day of June, 1824, the planet Saturn quitted the
sign t£auru0, and made his ingress into (Setnini. It may here be
observed, that most authors who write upon astrology agree in plac-
ing Ireland under the government of ^Taurus j and the severe trou-
bles with which that country has been afflicted during the possession
of Taurus by Saturn, which sign he has occupied ever since April,
1822, as well as at all other times, for centuries past, when he has
been in that sign, afford, altogether, convincing evidence that Taurus
is rightly assigned to Ireland.
<2>emini, the sign which Saturn had then entered, is considered
to be the ascendant of London : and the number of remarkable
events which, for ages past, have happened to this city during his
occupation of this sign, or whenever he has otherwise afflicted it,
naturally leads us to expect occurrences of an extraordinary kind dur-
ing his ascendency. His influence must, nevertheless, not be consi-
dered as confined to affairs of a public nature only. It will, more
or less, extend to every class of persons from the highest to the low-
est, both public and private-; but it will be more especially felt by
142 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
those more directly signified by Saturn : and according to their va-
rious capacities, and modes of life, will each individual experience
the Saturnine influence. Young persons between the ages of twenty-
one and twenty-three are likely to feel most forcibly the effects here
alluded to, by important changes in life that will be taking place
;
but the nature of these changes will be greatly regulated by the as-
pects and positions of the planets as they severally were at the time
of the birth of any individual.
Persons about the age above mentioned, and whose constitutions
are at all inclined to be consumptive, should be careful to avoid all
sorts of intemperance ; for it is an age at which the pernicious ef-
fects of Saturn's influence on those born under him are often very
serious, and in many instances fatal.
Persons arrived at about the age of twenty-eight, and who have
been unfortunate from their nineteenth to their twenty-sixth years,
must not expect any great changes to their advantage, while Saturn
remains in Gemini ; and reverses of fortune, as well as many vexa-
tious crosses, will be experienced, under his evil influence, by those
born in 1782 and 1783. Such persons should not engage in exten-
sive speculations for at least these two years, but they should live mo-
derately, and wait patiently, until a more safe aspect prevails.
It is no uncommon thing for persons of both sexes to imagine those
of their opposite sex in love with them when a little flattery is
sported. Those, thus easy of belief, will be in danger of disap-
pointment, and much uneasiness ; for Saturn is busy in promoting
dissimulation ; and it behoves the credulous to be well on their
guard. Nor should those who have been unfortunate in their at-
tachments be eager to hastily marry at this time, for it is not in the
power of the other planets to counteract the evil influence which
Saturn exerts. Much disagreement commonly happens between
elder and younger brothers and sisters, while Saturn occupies
some particular positions in Gemini. Married persons also who
have disagreed are not likely to be reconciled as long as the
influence of this planet preponderates : indeed, their domestic
broils will most likely get to their highest pitch under the evil and
virulent power of Saturn. As a caution to those who show symptoms
CHRONICLE OP CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 143
of apoplectic disorders, we ought not to omit to farther notice, that
this is one of the complaints peculiar to the influence of Saturn, and
more particularly in the sign (2>emmi t
where his effect is to occasion
obstructions, and the diseases arising therefrom, as before enume-
rated. He had, let it be remembered, no sooner entered <2>emim, than
Mr. Oxberry, the comedian, died of an apoplectic disorder. The
Sun, ^Percurp, and 3Jenu0 were already in this same sign, in which
^Oercurg was also retrograde ; and, as he was attacked under their
influence, the additional force of that of Saturn could hardly fail of
proving fatal. All persons affected with disorders of the head, and
who feel a weight, as it were, upon the brain, should be very care-
ful of themselves, and refrain, as much as possible, from all those
severe applications which require great exertion of mind.
S$ercuriu0.
EXTRAORDINARY INSTANCE OF A COMPREHENSIVE AND
RETENTIVE MEMORY.
The memory of the Bishop of Salisbury was raised, by art and
industry, to the highest pitch of human possibility ; for he could
readily repeat any thing that he had penned, after once reading it.
And therefore, usually, at the ringing of the bell, he began to com-
mit his sermons to heart, and kept what he learned so firmly, that
he used to say, if he were to make a speech premeditated, before a
thousand auditors, shouting or fighting all the while, yet he could
say whatsoever he had provided to speak.
Many barbarous and hard names out of a calendar, and forty
strange words, Welsh, Irish, &c. after once reading, or twice at the
most, and short meditation, he could repeat both forwards and back-
wards, without any hesitation.
Sir Francis Bacon reading to him only the last clauses of ten lines
in Erasmus's Paraphrase, in a confused and dismembered manner,
he, after a small pause, rehearsed all those broken parcels of sen-
tences the right way, and on the contrary, without stumbling.
—
Clarke's Mirror, p. 356.
144
ILLUSTRATION, No. X.
CIRCLE II.—SECT, VII.
ON THE PRESENT FASHION
OF WHOLLY DISREGARDING THE
Science of glstroloctg in treating tfje Siciu
That fashions in dress, in furniture, and in such articles as apply
to external decoration rather than to the use and end of inventions
of all sorts, should be varied, according to the taste of any age, is
not to be wondered at ; but that a science, and more especially such
a one as that which is employed in 'preserving the health of the
human body, or in restoring it in case of sickness, should have un-
dergone such a total change, from the prevalence of fashion, is a
subject worthy of reflection.
Every one who entered upon the profession of a doctor of medi-
cine one hundred and fifty years ago in England, and in most other
European countries, was obliged to undergo an examination in astro-
logy ; and, if deficient in the application of that science to the heal-
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 145
ing art, he was considered totally unfit to practise his profession.
In the present age it is the fashion to laugh at the system pursued
in the former : but whether this laughing indicates improved know-
ledge upon the subject of the human constitution, and the changes
to which it is exposed from atmospherical transitions, is not altoge-
ther clear.
If we may judge from the healthy state of the animal worM in ge-
neral, it will at once be obvious, that but few things of a very simple
kind, and those furnished by nature to every portion of the globe ac-
cording to its various climates, in sufficient abundance, are wanted to
preserve health, or restore the constitution whenever it may have
sustained injury. There can be no fairer way of judging what is ac-
tually necessary to keep up the vigour of the human frame than to
look at nations of savages, and to observe their ways of recruiting
their strength when they have been weakened by disease.
Perhaps nothing proves more than a simple observation of this na-
ture, the absurdity and mischief to mankind, of the fashion which
has introduced into every apothecary's shop such a display of painted
vials, jars, gallipots, &c. &c. Under the prevalence of such a fa-
shion for varieties of every preparation of medicaments, it is impos-
sible that the science can continue systematic, as it was when Gale-
nicals formed the chief body of the materia medica. It will be
always subject to an innovation of its principles, as long as astrolo-
gical diagnosis and prognosis are excluded from practice, and will
be rather an experimental than a settled science. My opinion is,
and it has been formed from much attention to the subject, and from
a due consideration of both the ancient exploded system, and the
modern accidental administration of medicine, that a complete know-
ledge of astrology is indispensable to a physician. There certainly
can be no system where there are no set principles : and if the prin-
ciples are natural, they must be drawn from astrology, for astrology
comprehends the whole system of nature.
English villagers of the present day have, for the most part, re-
course to some neighbouring old woman when they are out of order,
who soon sets them to rights, and manages to keep a neighbourhood
alive, and in a good sound state of health, for pretty near a century.
L
14f) THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CKNTURV.
She knows the time for gathering her herbs in their best state of per-
fection. She has her decoctions, and distillations, and salves, and
so forth, ready for all cases that may be wanted, and her prescrip-
tions are such as have done wonders, from her great-grandfather's time.
Thus, the simple practice of antiquity is not totally extinct among us ;
and it is to be hop'ed that fashion will again revive it.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XL
CIRCLE IL—SECT. Ill
A CANDID SURVEY OF CERTAIN PASSING EVENTS,
With their attendant Signs, and the inevitable Consequences to moral
Society.
The passions of a nation may be compared to the ocean, which,
without some cause of agitation, is disposed to calmness : but when
ruffled to a state of violence by any sudden or provoking impulse,
the effects are tremendous and overwhelming. In looking at the
frenzies which occasionally seize upon the public mind, some may
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 147
be satisfied with the fancy, that there is nothing farther to be ap-
prehended than the merely momentary fit or panic ; and that it loses
all its fervour as soon as the temporary emergency which caused it is
overpast. Those who think (I will not say reason) thus abstractedly
think erroneously ; nor can such short-sighted mortals know much
of the nature of the human heart. Every provocation which a ra-
tional body experiences has a concomitant origin, which is not visi-
ble to the purblind and precipitate. Every new insult adds fuel to
fuel : and the fervour of indignation, when it ha*s once glowed, never
becomes extinct ; but will, some time or other, as new combustibles
are added, burst forth with quenchless fury. It is at these latent
consequences that the moral philosopher looks with serious fore-
bodings, and not at the mere occurrence which may happen to be
coming to pass.
In a former page, some allusions have been made to the entrance
of Saturn into (Semirti the ascendant of London, as well as observa-
tions relative to the sorrowful afflictions which have befallen Ireland
during his sojourn in ^Taurus, the ascendant of that criminally-ne-
glected island. Those remarks, it will be seen, relate to persons of
various classes rather than to events ; and it is a task of no very
agreeable kind to which the pending signs now lead ; namely, that
of tracing the astrological significations which appertain to certain
weighty subjects that have been recently making, and which ought
to make, a serious impression on every virtuous and patriotic mind.
THE RAGE OF INFIDELITY IN ENGLAND, AND THE
DEPLORABLE MEANS BY WHICH IT IS PROMOTED.
The first circumstance which affects the community at large upon
the ingress of j^aturn into <2>emini* the ruling sign of this vast me-
* Ptolemy, the prince of astrologers, advises us to judge the effect of every
peculiar ingress by the preceding lunation ; and the following were the very re-
markable positions of the starry orbs at the new moon of May 28, 1824, 3 h. 3 m.
p. m. which immediately preceded the ingress of Saturn into Gemini.
07.7nlJ7.7Elb 28. 34 8 | % 12. 18 25 j <J 27 . 35 1$ |
9 20 . 15 8 |
$ 15 . 40 II R |
& 11 . 20 vf |
# 15 v? R |
L 2
MS THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
tropolis, is the trial of eight men charged with selling blasphemous
publications. It is well worthy of observation, that these trials,
which will prove of more national importance than can be seen upon
a hasty glance, commenced on the very day that the entrance of the
malevolent planet into the ominous sign was taking place.
The observations on this remarkable prosecution cannot be too
minutely made ; and I shall, therefore, feel myself excused for par-
ticularly pointing out some of the most striking matters by which
this case, and the circumstances connected with it, are distinguished.
These eight persons, over whose fate the malign orb seems to
have so especially predominated, were the agents, as we know, of a
man who has voluntarily sacrificed his liberty and property in the
cause of doctrines which oppose the truths of Christianity : and not
only has he himself been long suffering the scourge of the law, but
his wife, and other of his female kindred, have, by their own choice,
rushed dauntlessly into the jaws of the judge and the gaoler, and be-
come the victims of the same fatal resolution.
The consequences of this apparently disinterested and determined
conduct in the cause of free-thinking, has been to induce an endiess
succession of proselytes and propagators of the same Antichristian
tenets; who, for the most part, meet the courts with a confidence
that argues sincerity in the cause they have engaged in : and it is to
be deplored deeply, that the want of theological understanding in
those before whom they are brought never fails to be conspicuous
upon all these trials. Thus, that which is meant to be suppressed
by the utmost rigours of the law, only gains spiritual strength by the
triumphant manner in which the disciples of the infidel, mean and
uneducated as they are, face, grapple with, and floor, their antago-
nists in court, who dare never stir an inch from the technical verbi-
age of acts of Parliament. As long as this unequal contest between
the arm of the law and the arm of infidelity is impoliticly kept up,
so long must the latter gain strength ; and true religion and morality
grow weak and suffer abuse.
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 149
A WORD OR TWO FROM COUNSELLOR FRENCH, AND
ONE OR TWO FROM FATHER JEROME.
A banister, named French, conducted the defences set up by cer-
tain of these dealers in infidelity, and a few of the words which he
used express very truly and very cogently the consequences which
the nation is suffering from the injudicious mode of suppression
which has been hitherto adopted. " Piety," says he, " shudders
at these prosecutions. True Christianity is every where scandalized
from them. The dissemination of these books is most horrible, and
the circulation is increased by tens of thousands by these prosecu-
tions. Could the imprisonment of these poor, starved, ignorant
creatures check them ? No. The true cause of the frightful increase
of infidelity was the vices and luxury of the higher classes—their de-
istical principles—and their unchristian conduct. He repeated it,
that the community was in peril from this source.'" —" He felt for
those who were prosecuted ; and he came to protest, as a Christian,
against such a course of remedy as imprisonment. He wished them
to make converts of these poor men rather than martyrs."
Now what is most wonderful to a bystander is, that, in an age
which prides itself with being so luminous and refined, men of edu-
cation, and who must be well acquainted with the results of nearly
three centuries of persecution, should not pay some regard to what
experience is ever teaching. Domitian, Adrian, and Antoninus, after
sacrificing nearly a million of Jews, could not extinguish Judaism : nor
could the millions on millions of martyrs to Christianity, from Nero
down to Dioclesian, repress the progress of its doctrines. The same
evidence is manifested in the whole history of the Reformation, from
the early dissent of the Waldenses to the present time ; that is to say,
rigorous measures have ever tended to strengthen rather than sup-
press freedom of opinion upon topics of religion. Of this one thing
we may all rest certain —that no set of persons can overthrow the
truth. What, then, is the line of conduct which this axiom points
out ? Why obviously this —to employ the truth to persuade and
convince those who are in error. It is, however, much to be feared,
150 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
that the fact which St. Jerome advanced is but too well grounded :
" After the church," says he, " had Christian magistrates, she was
fuller of riches, but emptier of virtue ; and when she had golden cha-
licet, she had wooden priests." *
A COMPARISON OF CERTAIN CONFIGURATIONS,
By which recent Events, that much affect Religion and Morality, have
been marked.
When any powerful influence is exerted from either Gemini or
£acittartU0, some circumstance unfavourable to religion is com-
monly seen to be the result. I have already sufficiently remarked
upon the increasing spirit of opposition to the established religion of
the country, as evinced in the conduct of Carlile's agents ; and there
can be no question, but the notorious profligacy of those to whose
care the superintendence of religion is committed, has been a chief
cause of the successful career of these emissaries of infidelity. Pre-
cept without practice is but the smoke of a dunghill, which every
one is desirous to shun even the side-wind of. Indeed, to persons in
the least degree conversant with astrology, I shall be able to afford
full proof that the disgrace which has fallen on the church through
the infamy of certain of the clergy, is connected with the active pro-
pagation of blasphemous doctrines, and of more efficacy in promot-
ing the circulation of the Carlile publications, than all the energies
of an open antichristian host could have ever effected.
In order to bring forward my astrological evidence on this great
national subject, I must reluctantly advert to that fatal day for the
established church, the 19th of July, 1822 : and, by comparing the
signs which predominated over the horrid deed committed by a dig-
nitary of the highest rank on that day, with those which prevailed
on the 8th of June, 1824, when the trials of Carlile's shopmen com-
menced, a singular correspondence in the planetary positions will be
detected, which will speak volumes in favour of the authenticity of
astrology, and of the connection above signified.
* Bennet's Memorial, p. 18.
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 151
1
, , ?7i
My19 182<
lit
Time 8. 1824,
26.10
Q17.33
8. 26
J 10.14 M14.50 T V
r
l29.57
£ £3 46
fy2i-.22
c?2 7
1 TT "
11
d* tf. 44 ?
IT
0/0. £
Upon comparing this scale of the relative positions of the planets,
the reader will observe, that, on the 19th of July, 18-22, the day on
which the execrable bishop polluted what is termed the Establishment
with a stain of the foulest and most indelible nature, the planet
lupiter was just quitting 3Tauru0—that $J}ar0 had just entered
Hibra, and was applying to a quartile of the (Scotgium £,iUu0,
the latter being retrograde, and beholding one another from cardinal
signs—flPercurp, also, being retrograde, in eFancer, in a state of
combustion—and the fl^oon, in Heo just separated from her conjunc-
tion, being afflicted by a quartile of Saturn emitted from t*Tauui0.
Now, upon the 8th of June, 1824, when the agents of Carlile are
put upon trial for the act to which the former may be regarded as a
grand inducement, we find <£<2tutn in the posture in which 3fupiter
was seen in the former case, namely, just ready to transit into
<2>emini—£Par0, also, has just ingressed, as before, into Hibra,
and, as in the former instance, |is applying to a quartile with 35eor-
eium & 1X1110, the latter now retrograde as before ; and the aspect
still being from the same cardinal signs—^ercurp, likewise retro-
grade, as in the former aspects—<Benu0t in both instances, in the as-
cendant of Hcntiort — and the fl^oon in Scorpio, just separated
from affliction by conjunction with #Par0—to which may be added,
the quartile of the &un and (Scotgium ^itlU0 on both days within
orbs, and from the same cardinal signs.
Having shown the remarkable coincidence on these two occasions,
which both so materially concern the religion of the country, I shall
only farther state, on this point of my question, that £ aturn has a
strong sympathy with subtle-minded persons ; and, in exciting them
to action, he is very powerful. Carlile's connections are no doubt of
the class on which he, at this time, is very forcibly operating ; and,
as his motion is heavy, his effects may be expected to be lasting, and
to increase in importance, for some time to come, relative to the af-
fairs of the British metropolis.
152
ILLUSTRATION, No. XII.
CIRCLE II.-SECT. IV.
aBb£Uiurc0 of tfie glgtrologcv
ABOUT PART OF
THE SOUTHERN COAST OF ENGLAND.
BULL-FER-H1DE, THE LANDING-PLACE OF WILLIAM
THE CONQUEROR, AND HIS VICTORY OVER KING
HAROLD.
During a pedestrian excursion, recently taken by the astrologer,
along the southern coast of England, to the several watering-places,
he had one morning early set out from Hastings on his way to East-
bourne. Arrived at a spot, near to the village and garrison-station
of Bexhill, called by the people of that neighbourhood Bull-fer-hide,
he had sat himself down by the way-side to contemplate that memo-
rable spot where William the Norman landed his troops, previous to
his conquest of England, 757 years ago, in that contest with the
THE CHRONICLE OK CELESTIAL INFL.l KNCE. I o3
Saxon and Danish power which had concentrated in King Harold,
who commanded in person. One side was fighting to obtain a king-
dom, the other to preserve it to himself and his posterity; and no
battle was ever fought, before or since, that was more desperately
contested. It is well known that the army of Harold was totally
overthrown, and that its royal commander was one of the slain.
From this celebrated victory the town of Battle, in Sussex, received
its name : and will, perhaps, remain till doomsday, a monument of
the result of that struggle for the crown in England.
While the mind of the astrologer was engaged in reflections on
the events of that day, and the total change of masters which the
landed property throughout England was destined to undergo in con-
sequence of the result proving fatal to the dynasty which had pre-
viously been established, a gentleman dressed in a plain English cos-
tume, but who, from the mustachios which he wore, and the broken
accent in which he spoke our language, might be supposed a fo-
reigner of the military profession, approached towards the place where
the astrologer had seated himself.
THE STRANGE GENTLEMAN—THE INTEREST HE TAKES
IN THE SPOT, AND TRUE SIGNIFICATION OF THE
NAME IT BEARS.
The stranger having introduced himself according to those man-
ners which, in a moment, bespeak the man of the world, proceeded
to say, that he believed the town of Brighthelmstone lay "somewhere
beyond the bold summit of those distant mountains. The majestic
prominence of Beachy Head, and the fine range of chalky cliffs
which terminate the heights called the South Downs, and which form
the western extremity of a noble sweep of coast, called Pevensey Bay,
were the summits to which the inquirer alluded. The Astrologer
answered him by stating somewhat particularly the distance, and the
course of villages through which the direct road lay, and farther
explaining, by a pocket map of the country, the several other routes
by which a way to that celebrated resort of royalty might be taken.
The objects of curiosity and certain historical circumstances abound-
J54 THE ASTROLOGEU OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. *
ing in, and connected with, this part of England, were also pointed
out: and it was finally observed by the Astrologer, that he was on
an excursion round the coast by way of amusement, and to give
himself the benefit of a sea breeze ; and that he was then on his way
to Eastbourne, in the direct road to Brighton.
The stranger appeared wonderfully interested at finding himself
upon the spot where a landing was made of those forces which con-
signed the kingdom to a new line of monarchs, and gave its lands as
an heritage to a new race of nobles. The astrologer and stranger
had just taken a survey of the remains of the old fort constructed by
the Normans upon their first footing in the country, and had walked
round the vestiges of intrenchments and defences which the lapse of
so many ages, since past, had not yet effaced, when an old fisherman,
who had already passed a life of nearly threescore and ten upon the
spot, came up. He told us, that the name of Bull-fer-hide had been
given to the place, because the Conqueror, immediately upon disem-
barking, called out, " A bull for his hide,'* signifying, that he had a
bull slaughtered, and his hide cut into narrow strips or thongs,
saying, That, if he could obtain so much land as he could enclose
round with the thongs of one bull's hide, he would be King of
England,
This etymology of the name which the place bears to the present
day being thus traditionally delivered from father to son, and from
the simple old native of the solitary spot to us, occasioned the strange
foreigner to laugh heartily, and made him somewhat curious to hear
all the legends which the countryman was willing to impart, con-
cerning the level and its surrounding district, as far as the eye
could extend. Through the communications of this veteran, we
arrived at many particulars concerning the neighbourhood, as they
are still recorded in the legends of the rude natives ; but which we
do not here stay to recount, as they have no immediate connection
with the present objects of the ^etroloeer.
Having, at length, bade the old fisherman good morning, the stran-
ger remarked, how many corruptions in language and ludicrous
associations arose out of similarity of sound and misapplication of
sense; and seeming still much amused with the interpretation just
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 155
before given of Bull-fer-hide, he observed, that hithe was a radical
Saxon term for any small port or quay, and that the strong redoubt
which the Normans had there constructed, for the purpose of securely
landing their forces, stores, &c. from the opposite coast, plainly
bespoke the signification of the name which had been conferred upon
the place, bovlevarde in the Norman tongue implying a fortress;
and, consequently, the original title by which the landing-place and
rendezvous were distinguished was evidently Boulevarcle Hythe ; sig-
nifying, in English, Fortress Landing-place.
THE SMUGGLER'S WIFE.
Having reconnoitred, as far as we desired, this celebrated spot,
we were about turning into the small inn, the only habitation except
the huts of two or three fishermen, which the place contains, when
up came a poor woman, with a little boy and girl trudging pitifully
by her side, and with an infant in her arms. She courtesied
respectfully, and seemed hesitating, as it were, whether she should
pass us or not without speaking. Necessity seemed to prevail over
reluctance, and, coming towards us with eyes flush with tears, she
said, she hoped we would not be angry at her begging a trifle to assist
her to proceed on with her poor children, to their home, in the
neighbourhood of Portsmouth, nearly sixty miles distant.
On being questioned, it appeared that her husband was a smuggler,
and that in one of his enterprises he had recently been unfortunate
enough to fall in with a revenue cruizer off the coast of Kent, the
consequence of which was, that he had been taken prisoner, and was
then confined in the gaol of Dover. The poor wife had walked from
their place of abode in Hampshire to see him in his confinement,
which, after the prayers and entreaties of a fortnight, had been
refused her by the authorities ; and, fatigued in body, and full of
heaviness of heart, after having performed such a laborious journey
in vain, she was returning towards her desolate home, under all the
pangs of melancholy, and the sad bodings of the destitute wife and
mother.
She told her sorrowful story in an artless manner, which sufficiently
156 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
vouched for its truth ; and expressed herself doubly grieved at being,
for the first time in her life, driven to ask charity, which she declared
nothing would have induced her to do, but the hunger to which her
children were reduced. Her last money had been paid for their
lodgings the night before, and they had then not had anything to eat
since the preceding afternoon. She spoke in the highest terms of the
goodness of her husband, who, she said, except following that line
of life, was a character without reproach. He was truly tender
towards her and the children, and a friend to everybody as far as he
could; but she feared that no mercy would be shown him, and that
she was now doomed to pass the remainder of her days in widow-
hood, and to do with her own hands the best she could for her poor
fatherless children.
My new friend seemed to feel, as a man ought to do, all the sensa-
tions of true compassion for a female in so uncalled-for a state of suf-
fering, and lost no time in ordering the landlord of the inn to provide
a comfortable meal for her and the children at his expense. Knowing
the austerity practised by the local authorities against such as fol-
lowed smuggling, and fearing that she would be exposed to the seve-
rities with which those that come under the acceptation of vagrants
are sometimes visited by petty country justices and their insolent
myrmidoms, it was my intention to have secured her from the chance
of such additional affliction, by a letter of recommendation to a
worthy magistrate of a liberal nature, who lived not far distant, and
to have forwarded her lawful progress home by means of a pass.
THE CONDUCT OF THE ALIEN TOWARDS THE DIS-
TRESSED WOMAN.
The strange gentleman seemed full of indignation on learning that
persons totally devoid of discrimination, and who often exercised
power for the sake of indulging the most contemptible pride, should
be vested with authority to throw a woman free from crime, and at
the same time so unfortunately situated, as to be driven, against her
will, to ask a few pence to satisfy the hunger of her innocent chil-
dren, into a prison.
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 157
He then vehemently deprecated the unchristianlike principles of
those laws by which humanity could be violated with impunity: and
vowed that, in his opinion, no severer judgment could be inflicted on
the civilized world, than that of its being consigned over, by national
laws, to the wills of dissipated and voluptuous tyrants, who had no
care but that of gratifying their own inordinate lusts and evil appe-
tites.
" As to the crime of smuggling," says he, " in what does it con-
sist ?—In nothing but following a traffic, forbidden only for the sake
of a wicked jealousy, that exists between the managers of one state
and the managers of another—a traffic sanctioned by the laws of
Heaven ! Can there be any doubt in the mind of one who has looked
into the sacred ordinances of religion and morality, but that one part
of the great scheme of Providence is the establishment a free inter-
course between all the societies of men upon the earth ? And what
is it that counteracts the will of Heaven, in this glorious particular,
but the framing of laws to gratify avarice by partial monopolies of the
articles of traffic—by enacting laws to sanction a few men to plunder
the mass ? And what, then, s the crime of which this poor smug-
gler has been guilty ? It is one which never could have been created
but for the existence of the wicked and pernicious laws that are made
to sanction monopoly and avarice. Thus do we behold humanity
infringed, and Christianity violated, by those dirty private enactments
which have caused this poor sufferer to be robbed of her husband,
and these harmless babes of their affectionate father—thus have our
ears been tortured with a tale of barbarity which would disgrace the
lowest savages of Africa, were it told of them, that a woman from
affection had walked nearly a hundred miles to console her impri-
soned mate—imprisoned for no crime but a defiance of laws which it
will always be considered honourable to defy—and, when she has per-
formed this hard duty, to be denied the privilege of a word of mutual
consolation —Oh ! it is too much for any land that boasts of
liberty I"
Having taken our refreshment, during which the stranger, with
much feeling, indulged in these observations ; and the poor woman
being now ready to depart, her alien friend wished to ascertain what
158 THK ASTROLOGER OF THE XI XKTKENTH CENTURY*.
sum of money would be necessary to carry her home, regretting, at
the same time, that he was not a rich man. She signified that, on
account of the tender age of the children, it would be impossible for
her to reach home in less than four or five days, as they were then
very much fatigued ; and that it would require as much as half-a-
crown a-day to provide them all with food and lodging upon the
road.
Our strange friend thought that such a sum would be quite insuffi-
cient to enable her to effect such a journey ; adding, ** I, as far as I
am able, am a true cosmopolite, and my principles teach me to regard
every country in the world as my home, and every honest person as
my relative. Every human heart is loved by me—every oppressor
is regarded as my personal enemy. You are in distress, good woman,
and I am bound by my principles to relieve you as far as I can. My
worthy friend here (as he was pleased to term the ggtiologer) has
kindly proposed to assist you to return to your home by placing
you under the protection of those laws of your country, which have
been made to succour indigent travellers ; but you might, even under
these salutary laws, be exposed to insults and vexations from those
unfeeling people who administer them. My purse happens to con-
tain at this time a trifle which I do not, thank Heaven, immediately
want myself ; and you, therefore, do me a favour by enabling your-
self to avoid the painful extremity of applying to the magistry, by
receiving this from my hand, which, I trust, will be sufficient to pur-
chase the necessaries you may want by the way,—and I heartily,"
says he, " wish you safe home."
With this he put two sovereigns into her hand, and the
^gtrolocer having added his mite, the poor creature burst into a
flood of tears, which spoke her sense of the service more eloquently
than all the power of words could have done : and while she was in
vain endeavouring to overcome her feelings sufficiently to articulate
her thanks to her benefactor, and her prayer for blessing on his head,
he interrupted her to say, that he had only been performing a small
part of those duties which he owed to God—that, therefore, she was
not to thank him : but he emphatically recommended her not to for-
get, as soon as she was alone, and her mind composed, to thank that
CHROVI OLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE, 159
Power which had taught him that it was his duty to relieve her : for
on Him would rest her support through her misfortune : and who was
ab^e to restore her husband from the hands of those merciless slaves
to injustice, who had deprived him of liberty. He farther promised,
that, if the smuggler remained in confinement until his return to
Dover, he would use his utmost efforts to get him released. These
proofs of the spontaneous and natural goodness of his heart only
brought forth farther streams of thanks from the poor woman's eyes
:
and the children, hardly conscious of the cause of their mother's
tears, wept plenteously from sympathy, in which state they all de-
parted on their way to Hampshire.
Serological IJrognosttcattons
BY WHICH THE OVERTHROW OF THE ANGLO-SAXON
AND DANISH DYNASTY WAS INDICATED.
Some part of the weight of its woes having been thus taken off the
heart of the smuggler's wife, and the stranger and myself being left
together, our conversation again turned upon the subject of the bat-
tle for the crown of England, which the scene of the morning had so
strongly refreshed in our minds. Upon being informed that the
fatal overthrow of the Anglo-Saxon and Norman potentates was
presignified by the affliction of the sign Crieff, the ascendant
of England, by the planets £ aturn and £$ar0, and by a total
eclipse of the moon, which happened in the same sign a little
before the era of the battle,—the humane cosmopolite expressed
himself highly pleased at a piece of information so novel and unex-
pected ; and, which he was pleased to say, added a memorandum of no
small estimation to his log-book, which he took from his pocket, and
in it entered down the astrological forerunners of that great event.
He then proceeded to inquire concerning the tokens by which other
momentous changes in the moral world had been preceded, and
seemed particularly gratified with the information, on these subjects,
which he obtained.
During this repast, and the conversation which accompanied it,
the ^strolocet had a perfect opportunity to mark all the peculiar
160 THE ASTROLOGEIV-OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
traits of his face, and the characteristics which the speech and man-
ners of the stranger denoted ; and from these he was enabled to
arrive at certain conclusions concerning his birth, and some of the
leading circumstances by which the life of this interesting person had
been distinguished.
He confessed himself to have been one of those who had been
prejudiced against the science of astrology, but, on the application
which it enabled a total stranger to make to things which he con-
ceived none knew but himself, he at once acknowledged that he was
now a convert to its wonderful principles, and should in future hold
the science in great esteem.
CIRCLE 1 1. — S E C T. V.
CTltmactnlcal ¥ear$
OF A
PERSON'S LIFE.
There are certain cycles, or terms of years, which have been
observed, at their periodical returns, to bring round with them cir-
cumstances, either fortunate or unfortunate, according as the moon
is in aspect good or bad, with the point of the ecliptic ascending in a
nativity. The periodical revolution of the moon is performed in
twenty-seven days, seven hours, and forty-three minutes; hence,
about every seventh day she is moon to her place in the radix ;
and thus, some time in the course of her seventh year, she becomes
quartile to her own place, and causes what is termed, by some,
the quartile climacteric, which, unless its effects be, in some de-
gree, neutralized by other aspects, is an unfortunate transit. Again,
some time in the course of each ninth year, the moon occupies a
place trine to the aspect of her place in the nativity : which is fa-
vourable unless greatly molested by adverse aspects.
Hence it will be seen, that a seventh, fourteenth, twenty-first,
twenty-eighth, &c. year is a quartile, or an evil climacteric ; and
the ninth, eighteenth, twenty-seventh, thirty-sixth, &c. are trine
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 161
climacterics, and promise good. The forty-ninth and sixty-third are
termed grand climacterics; the former being the square of that term
which constitutes the quartile, as seven times seven are forty-nine ;
and the latter being the time multiplied into the quartile, as seven
times nine are sixty-three: which are both periods of a person's life
productive commonly of something memorable.
Some authors think the climacterical effects result from certain
periodical returns in the aspects of Saturn, which planet performs
nearly one quarter of his orbit every seventh year; but the effects
produced by Saturn, though powerful to a certain extent, are not
more than l-200th part equal to those of the moon.
E—W—N.
CIRCLE II.—SECT. VI.
REMARKS
Upon the Signs which prevailed over the Deaths of
®6e iUng anB caueett of tj&e SaniffofcJ) Brteg,
AND THE CHINESE LADY:
CALCULATED TO EVINCE
THE ANARETIC INFLUENCE OF THE DRAGONS TAIL.
Persons whom custom has reduced to so slavish a condition that
they regard its laws as paramount to those of Nature, cannot be
expected to look upon the Sun, Moon, and stars, as created for any
other purpose than merely to rise and set. The sun, to them, is but
a very common-place every-day sort of body, that 'shines upon
them, to be sure : but as for anything else, he is little to be thought
of: and then the Moon,—she too, though she does not make herself
so cheap quite as the Sun, yet she has her particular ways, and ex-
poses them to one's eyes without much reserve ; so that it would
seem almost beneath the dignity of such exalted beings as men to think
her of half the consequence of an air-balloon, and to consider her as
well worth looking at as a thing made by their own hands. As to
the planets and stars with which the heavens are overspread, if the
M
162 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Sun and Moon are unworthy of consideration, it would be unreason-
able to suppose such diminutive sparks as they appear of a bit higher
nature than snuffs of candles. —It may be thought unjust sarcasm,
but it is to be feared, that these are ideas which apply but too truly
to the mass of mankind with regard to the employment of their facul-
ties—with regard to their disposition to discern the characters and
qualities of the heavenly bodies. Still it is to be hoped that there
are some willing to receive proofs that they were created as well for
signs as for seasons ; and we, therefore, proceed to lay before them
the following particulars of recent events, with their correspondent
signs :
—
On the 8th of July, 1824, the On the 7th of July, 1824,
Queen of the Sandwich Islands Cftenufl made her transit of the
UietJ, at Osborn's Hotel, Adelphi, sDragon'0 tlTail, in Cancer, and
London. applying to opposition with^cor*
Gium £itiu0.
Take the foregoing transit as
On the 9th of July, 1824, the
Chinese lately DieU at the Chinese governing the death of this illus-
llooms in Pall Mali. trious stranger as well as that of
the Queen the day previous.
On the 14th of July, 1824, the On the 14th of July, 1824,
King of the Sandwich Islands Mercury made his transit of the
tiieli at the Caledonian Hotel, iDraeon'tf 'STail, in Cancer, apply-
Adelphi. ing to opposition of <$5eorgium
£ itms.
Before I proceed to remark concerning the fatal influence which
any planet during its transit of the Dragon's t3Tail acquires, let
me, among the peculiar aspects of this period, point out one or two
for the more close and serious consideration of my astrological
readers.
On the 16th of January, 1824, the moon was eclipaetJ, and at the
time of her obscuration was vertical to the Sandwich Isles.
On the 26th of June, 1824, the gun was eclipsed, and at the
CHRONICLE OP CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 163
time of coming into the Lunar Shadow he was vertical to the Sandwich
Isles.
On the 1 lth of July, 1824, the week in which their Majesties died,
the moon was again eclipgetJ, and at this time she was again nearly
vertical to the Sandwich Tsles. — See the account of eclip0e0 in the
Prophetic Almanack. These will, no doubt, be regarded as signal
prognostics.
In his work on astrology, Mr. James Wilson says, ** Some are sim-
ple enough to direct the Dragon's Tail to the horoscope as anareta ;
and Gad bury says, he knew three instances where it destroyed life :
a moment's reflection would have convinced him, that it could do
nothing of the kind, being a mere nonentity."
Whoever will give themselves the trouble to register the successive
transits of the 2Dra8on'0 tlail by the several planets, will soon find
that its effects are invariably anaretic, and that these commonly
prove fatal to persons of great consequence. Queen Caroline of
England died on the day that ©enutf made her transit of the JDia8Ott'0
3Tail, in 1821 : and now we have to record the coincidence of this
same phenomenon with the deaths of the Queen of the Sandwich
Isles, and the Chinese Lady, together with the death of the King of
the Sandwich Isles on the very day that ^ercurg makes his transit
of this fatal node. It is these facts, and not men's opinions, that
must guide those who would arrive at any eminence in astrology.
M 2
164
ILLUSTRATION, No. XIII,
CIRCLE II.—SECT. VIL
A RETROSPECTIVE VIEW
OF
©ertatn &emarfeafile iEbcm*,
With Observations on the Signs by which they were severally
accompanied'.
By all persons who have paid close attention to the subject of
astrology, with a desire to ascertain its efficacy with regard to popular
events, it will have been observed, that when planets have been pass-
ing through the sign (Semini, conflagrations have been commonly pre-
valent, and some very great ones have happened under this sign.
But. we are not to take this alone as the sign by which such catas-
trophes are to be anticipated in this particular quarter of the world.
Crieff, Hibra, and Sagittarius, have had their share of great fires as
well as <2>emini ; and few have ever happened, except in parts
very remote in England, but when those signs have been very strongly
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE.
affected. The particular quality of any combination of influence that
may happen to be in familiarity with those signs, should, however,
be at all times attentively considered, when that which depends upon
them is investigated with a view to foretell events which they are
known to rule.
Those who have given this part of the subject of astrology the most
minute attention possible, have found the sextiles and trines of
Saturn and $$ar0, from those signs, invariably attended with
consequences remarkably disastrous ; and very often much more so
than the quartiles and oppositions of those planets on other occasions.
Such positions will scarcely ever occur without being followed by
great fires—popular tumults—dreadful murders—awful suicides, and
such-like : and wherever war is carrying on under such configurations,
it rarely happens but that they bring on times of extraordinary
slaughter and devastation.
SIGNS ATTENDING THE CORONATION, AND EVENTS
CONNECTED WITH IT.
It has been moreover observed, that, when planets have been mak-
ing their transits through some particular degrees of the signs
Gemini, ©irgo, Sagittarius, and IPijsccs, England, France, and some
other countries that border upon these, have been dreadfully agi-
tated. The degrees thus specially alluded to may be considered to
extend from the 1 1th to the 15th, and from the 24th to the 28th de-
gree of each of the said signs. (ZBclipeeg of the sun or nrort, when
they happen in the limits of those degrees, are certain forerunners of
calamities to this part of Europe. The great eclipse of the 0un
which happened on the 7th of September, 1820, took place under
the 1 4th degree of QirfiO, and so virulent were its effects in those
quarters where the before-mentioned signs principally predominate,
that it has been thought by some very experienced astrologers to have
afflicted the earth for upwards of two years. Events certainly fol-
lowed it of a most serious and alarming nature. In the latter part of
that year, and in the early part of 1821, a general ferment was
excited by the persecution of the Queen. It was also on the 5th of
166 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH (JENTUKV.
May, 1321, that Napoleon Buonaparte died; and I mention this
particular circumstance, for the sake of pointing out to the notice of
students in the science, that this great eclipse fell not only in the
ascendant of Paris, but within two degrees of the place of Mars in the
nativity of the late Emperor Napoleon ; and which was, no doubt, a
signal of his approaching end. —The coronation of his present Majesty
on the 19th of July, 1821, was distinguished beyond every other
ceremony of a like nature by the attempt of the Queen to be present
in the Abbey, and the means that were employed to prevent her
admission. Eleven days after the coronation-day, she was taken ill
at Drury-Lane Theatre ; and, after lingering under the fatal malady
until the 7th of August, she died, regretted by all humane hearts.
Now, those who will take the trouble to examine the planetary as-
pects at the time of the coronation, will find that the infortune, floats,
was in the 14th degree of Gemini, one of the ominous positions be-
fore particularized. On the day of the Queen's death, £|9ar0 had
attained the 27th degree of the same sign ; a part of the pr/Diac already
alluded to as singularly baleful : and on the day when her remains
were removed from Hammersmith to be conducted to her native
country, and on which were witnessed those frightful contentions
between the military and that part of the populace who had resolved
to take the hearse through the city, 2Jenu0 had just reached the 14th
degree of (Hirgo, the very point of longitude on which the great eclipse
before alluded to took place. It will be also remembered, that two
spectators lost their lives, on the day of the funeral, by the conduct
of the military in using their fire-arms.
Having called the attention of my readers to the subject of that
memorable eclipse, and certain domestic events which seem immedi-
ately connected with it, we should not omit to mention the persecu-
tions of the Grecian Christians by their Turkish taskmasters, which
became general just at the occultation of the great luminary; and
which brought on a train of massacres and brutal violations as horri-
ble and as revolting to human nature as any on record, by which the
great cities of Turkey in Asia were filled with female victims and
children, the prey of the barbarian ; and the cities of injured Greece
with reprisals of Mahommedan blood.
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 167
It would also seem forgetful to omit noticing the extraordinary dis-
tress that prevailed in our own country among the agriculturists the
whole of the year following the eclipse, which may very justly be
esteemed portentous of the ruin experienced by thousands ; and of the
great depreciation of land, which was left in many districts almost
entirely on the hands of the proprietors, and rents, in consequence,
were reduced throughout the country from £30 to £60 per cent.
These are events of too much magnitude to be indifferently passed
over by the reflecting and philosophical astrologer.
A COMPARISON OF THE SIGNS AND ASPECTS UNDER
WHICH SOME OF THE CHIEF DESTRUCTIONS BY FIRE
HAVE TAKEN PLACE.
In order to afford the admirers of the science an opportunity of
witnessing how instrumental planetary positions in the particular
signs and degrees before pointed out have been in the production of
extraordinary calamities, and more especially of such as result from
fires, particularly in and about London, sketches are here subjoined
of some of the most remarkable accidents of this nature that have
happened during the last thirty years, together with a scale of the
configurations which prevailed at the time of each conflagration.
This sort of comparison cannot fail to be highly satisfactory and of
great value to artists, as it gives ample groundwork, deduced from
facts within our own immediate knowledge, for future judgments,
and for raising the science from its present degraded position to that
eminence, and dignified condition among the philosophical doctrines
of the universe, which it so justly merits.
FIRST DESTRUCTION OF ASTLEY'S AMPHITHEATRE BY
FIRE.
On the 17th of September, 1794, Astley's Amphitheatre, and
many houses adjoining it, were destroyed by fire ; and the positions
of the planets at the time were as follows :
—
168 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
©24. 44 D9.37 #11. 21
"I
$8. 36
I? 29. 36 R.
5 17 . 48
It 25. 7
t
£10.34
Thus it will be perceived, that the Sun, <25eorsiutn &JTIH0, and
Kupitcr, are all posited in the ominous degrees of the signs already-
alluded to ; the Sun and Jupiter being quartile to each other, floats,
also, entering the disastrous degrees of Saflittariu0, is applying to an
opposition of (Seorgium SilJU0, which sufficiently marks the calami-
tous nature of the event.
DESTRUCTION OF ST. PAUL'S, COVENT GARDEN, BY
FIRE.
In the following year, and within two days of the time at which
the foregoing event happened, St. Paul's Church, Covent Garden,
was destroyed by fire ; and on the 19th of September, the day of the
fire, the following scheme will show the state of the planets :
—
©26 . 28
t n
3)5.39 | y 11. 25 J
"ft
$ 19. 30
n yf
T? 13. 39 I
%27. 38 R. *1.
$ 5 . 33
Now it will be here observed, that Ceorgium SitM0 and Saturn are
in a platique conjunction in the ominous degrees of (Semtni—that the
0@oon is applying to the same disastrous place in Sagittarius—$9ar0
and C3enu0, together with the Sun, in the sign SJirgo—and ^ercurg
is seen applying to a trine with (Seorcium 5&it)U0 and Saturn.
THE AMPHION MAN OF WAR BLOWN-UP AT PLYMOUTH.
On the 3d of August, 1796, upwards of 250 men perished by the
blowing up of the Amphion man of war in Plymouth Harbour, at
which time the planets were seated as follows :
—
©11.44 14.51
n
£14.53
n
ft24 If 11 . 25R.
t
£18.33
ft I ©
? 15 . 9 I $24 . 24
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 169
The positions of (SeotGium SiBus and j|atutn will be first noticed
as indicative of disaster from the malignant degrees of Gemini, 0$ar0
being in Sagittarius, separating from an opposition of the latter of
the aforesaid malevolents, which, to astrologers, will be sufficient to
show how strictly correct the foregoing opinions have been formed.
VAST DESTRUCTION OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTY BY
FIRE AT LIVERPOOL.
In 1802, an extraordinary accident by fire happened at Liverpool
on the 14th of September, by which a great number of warehouses
was entirely reduced to ashes, and property to the amount of more
than a million sterling was consumed. At the time of this catas-
trophe, the positions of the planets will be seen from the subjoined
scale :
—
m I r I s I
w I rr? n
O 20 . 52 J } 26 . 30 | $ 9 . 1 1 |
T? 12 . 9 | % 17 . 22 £ 22 . 58
fil S3
9 4 . 30 I 5 1 . 29
Here & aturn was in possession of the 13th degree of ©irgQ, within
orbs of a conjunction with Jupiter in the same sign, and from which
the latter was separating : and, what is still worthy of observation,
both being in combustion, the &un having just separated from con-
junctions with both ; floats just entering the 24th degree of Gemini
;
and the ingress of ^ercurg into the ominous sign Hibra having been
just made.
SECOND DESTRUCTION OF ASTLEY'S THEATRE BY FIRE ;
AND ALSO OF THAT IN ST. GEORGE'S FIELDS, CALLED
THE CIRCUS.
On the'2 1st of September, 1803, Astley's Amphitheatre was again
the prey of the raging element, and with it twenty of the adjoining
houses were reduced to a complete wreck. This second conflagration
was accompanied by the following aspects :
—
170 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
A. .n.
14.8 . 4 J
$ 7 .25
08 . 2 } D6. I
y 13.17] T? 31.54
$26.36 ^22.15
This scheme presents us with a conjunction of Jupiter and $®SX8
in the sign Hibra, noted for its ardent effects, and both which planets
are quartile to (Seorfiium IHtnigf from cardinal signs. The positions
of the mn, ^aturn, and flPcrcurp, in fliirgo, will likewise be particu-
larly noticed, together with the opposition of the mn and moon
from WLitQO and JPteceis.
The theatre called the Circus, in St. George's Fields, was de-
stroyed by fire on the 12th of August, in the year 1805, which event
was accompanied by the following state of the heavenly bodies :
—
a I x l ® I ^ m \
^
©19. 14 I
j)12.19 I
#21.23 I
1? 12.21 I; 26. 59 |
£8.3
rtp, [ rrji
$10 . 11 I ^ 13 . 26
Among the more striking features of these aspects, the conjunction
of ©aturn and £]£ar0 in Hibra will not fail to be noticed, nor their
quartile configurations with <2>eorGtum ©iUu.o from cardinal signs,
which occasion their effects to be prodigious. £
r
f crcurg and ©emiff
have also ominous positions in the sign (Hugo, where they are just
separating from a conjunction, both being in opposition to the moon
in IPtscetf.
The Theatre Royal, Covent Garden, with some of the adjacent
houses, was destroyed by fire on the 20th of September, 1808 ; the
lives of several persons having been lost in this awful calamity.
On this occasion, the positions of the several planets were as fol-
lows :
—
©26.48 J D22.34
m 1 x
y 25.48 J
^ 18. 19 I
l; 12. £14.22
$ 10. 47 J £4 . 51
Thus will it be seen that this unfortunate event took place when
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 171
the 0tm was in the 27th degree of CHirco, with the moon combust,
and applying to her autumnal conjunction. The (Seorgtum €>itiu0 was
also in the ominously flagrant degrees of Hibra ; and £@ar0 was just
applying to a quartile with €>atum, in the fiery sign Heo. 2Jemi0 was
also in the evil degrees of Hibra, which, it will be remembered, were
pointed out in the former number, as partaking of the same influence
as those of Cftirgo and Sagittarius ; being altogether a combination of
destructive influence rarely surpassed. Not being in possession of
the particular hour when the fire was discovered, and supposing it
to have been between one and two o'clock in the morning, the places
of the 01m and moon are set down for midnight between the 19th
and 20th.
COMPARISON OF THE ASPECTS COINCIDING WITH THE
FIRE AT ST. JAMES'S PALACE IN 1809, AND THOSE
ATTENDNG THAT WHICH RECENTLY HAPPENED AT
CARLTON PALACE.
On the 17th of January, 1809, the apartments appropriated to the
Duke of Cambridge in St. James's Palace were destroyed by fire.
This is not mentioned as a fire of great extent, but merely for the
purpose of comparing the aspects by which it was accompanied, with
those pending the recent fire at Carlton Palace.
Jan. 19,
1809. 1 © 27. 3 J
]) 16. 7] y 28.31
1
b 1 . 26 U 16.32
£: 1 H
$ 17.58 |97.2
V?
$ 25 . 43
June 8,
1824.
| n 1 Til 1 \tf 1 n
J
18 .0 1 D 15 .
J y 14.16 1
Tp . % 14.32
£: 1 D
S . 44 J
2 3 . 35
!
]
1
3 1 0. 6
Some persons who have applied a little to astrology, may perhaps
smile at the incongruity of these aspects ; but if they will please to
examine them according to the conditions prescribed in the forego-
ing pages, they will find them by no means so unworthy of attention
172 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
as they may perhaps, at first glance, imagine. In the earlier acci-
dent it will be seen that ^erjscljeU is in Hibra, and & aturn in £ afiitta*
riu0, in opposition to (Semini, the ascendant of London ; and ££ar0
was in the middle of the sign Hibra, in trine to the moon. On the
latter occasion, the £un, £.atum, ©enii0, and ^crcurp, appear in
Gemini, the ascendant of London ; ^eorgium *&»itiu0 being in the
middle of Capricorn, quartile with 3Jupitet in cardinal signs, and just
entering Hibra.—Now let it be noted, that excepting (2>eorcjium *ciUii0,
in the former of these instances, not one of the planets is in either of
these particularly ominous degrees which have been pointed out.
Again, the chain of influence between Saturn and ££ara is also im-
perfect and interrupted, and their effects bore an equal proportion
to their weakness, for though both the royal buildings were injured,
neither was demolished. The accident at St. James's was somewhat
more serious than that at Carlton Palace, and this may, without
much hesitation, be ascribed to the degree of Hibra, occupied by the
Herschell planet at the time.
DESTRUCTION OF DRURY-LANE THEATRE BY FIRE, AND
THE CORRESPONDING SIGNS.
The destructive fire by which the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, was
totally demolished, with all its valuable wardrobes, scenery, and his-
trionic appurtenances, happened on the 24th of February, 1809,
when the order of the planets was according to the following arrange-
ment :
—
Feb. 24, I
x I n I rrt I
t
1309. J
5 . 32 J
]) 27.48 |
$ 23 . 32 | T? 3 . 38
X
% 25.53
^ <Y> X
$ 27. 4 J ? 20.51 J $ 19.57R.
The positions here registered afford a striking difference to those
by which the accidents at the two palaces were accompanied. S^a*
turn was here in ^acittarius, opposite the ascendant of London.
3fupiter was verging on the 26th degree of !Pi0ce0, from whose quar-
tile the moon, in the ascendant of London, had just separated.
£JTat0 had attained 27 degrees of Hibra, where he was then in mo-
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 173
tion : and 3Jcnu0 was applying to an opposition with him in the
Equinoctial signs, ^ercurp is also retrograde in the sign Ipi0ce0,
which is one of the flagrant signs, and a separation from his con-
junction with Jupiter herein has just taken place.
THE SIGNS PENDING THE BURNING DOWN OF THE
CUSTOM HOUSE, LONDON.
That terrible conflagration which consumed the whole Custom
House, together with many warehouses stored with valuable mer-
chandise, broke out on the 12th of February, 1814, when the under-
mentioned aspects prevailed :
—
Feb. 12, I -
1814. I
023.13
m t vf mi
26.32 J y 2 . 22 | T? 25.20 |
D 26.32 | y 2 . 22 j ^ 25.20 | % 26.44 R.
g 1*8.37
or x
£28.57 j $ 2S.30
In attending to the celestial signs corresponding to this great ca-
tastrophe, it will be observed, that the (Georgian planet was within
very little more than one degree of the sign ^acittarius, in which
^aturn was at the time Drury-Lane Theatre was consumed : thus
was the ascendant of London, on each occasion, opposed by a planet
similar in nature and general influence. While in this ominous
sign, we see <2>eor8tum Villus meeting a retrograde quartile of Jupiter
from a sign no less malignant in these violent combustions, namely,
CKirgo. C^aw is here seen in the latter part of Sries, the ascendant
of England, and in opposition to his former place on the 24th of
February, 1 S09. The situation of 2Jenu0, in the latter part of ©iacetf,
not separated more than 30 minutes from the limits of those remark-
able degrees, is a feature worthy of notire ; and the more so, as she
is here slow in motion, and just on the eve of retrograding: and
consequently her operations are particularly powerful by her re-
maining in influence for a longer time on the part of the sign shown
to be so instrumental in marking fires.
174 THE ASTKOLOGEIl OK THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
DESTRUCTION OF IMMENSE PROPERTY
At the Burning of Water-Street Mill, Birmingham ; with the conco-
mitant Signs.
On the ]5th of March, 1817, a loss of property, estimated at
200,0001. was sustained by the destruction of Water-Street Mill,
Birmingham, by fire, and, referring to the positions of the heavenly
bodies, we find them, at the time, as follows :
—
March 15,
1817. 024.34
t
D 27.51 | y 15.45 I? 29.54 | % 10.34
£7.22 $ 10.42 I $ 28.31
This fire will be found, as all the foregoing events of a like kind
were, to have been accompanied with aspects such as were before
specified as common to conflagrations. At the time this happened,
3(upiter was in the 11th degree of Sagittarius, and in a platique
quartile to the mn in ©isces* The (Seorgiuin Villus was also within
the compass of the ominous degrees of Sagittarius: but the greater
part of the influence of this latter planet was directed to subjects of
more general importance.
In the month of April of this same year, several fires happened in
various parts of the country, particularly in Essex, supposed to have
been the work of incendiaries : and it is worthy of notice, that 3fupi-
piter. was retrograde between the 10th and 11th degrees of Sagitta-
rius, during the greater part of that month ; while both the sun
and 0? ercurg were passing through the sign 8rtes. Many other con-
figurations of a violent nature happened also about the same time,
but they would have too much swelled this article had they been
commented upon. We have, therefore, confined our view princi-
pally to those more ominous degrees of the signs pointed out.
On the 20th of March, 1818, the magnificent theatre of the Odeon,
at Paris, was entirely laid waste by fire ; and, though not im-
mediately within the limits proposed to be taken in considering this
subject, yet, from many buildings of a like nature having been
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 175
previously destroyed in England, it has been thought a comparison
of the aspects would be acceptable. We therefore call the attention
of our astrological readers to the following scheme of the heavens
under which the demolition of the Paris theatre took place :
—
March 20,
1824. ©29.18 D 2 . 29
n
$ 27.21 $ 1 . 12
t
$ 20.11 | T?
X
$ 15.14
Of 10.24
Here let it be first noticed, that the &vm, £aturn, and $£ercurp,
are all together in l]->i0ce0, ^aturn being just within the degrees of
flagration, which have been before so frequently alluded to, and from
which $9ercurg was just separating ; to an opposition of all of whom
the moott applied. ££aw also, between the ominous degrees of
(Semini, is opposed to (Seorgium ^iXms in & agittarius ; and 3Jerw0
has just entered the sign Otitis* Every experienced astrologer will
doubtlessly consider the testimony here adduced as strongly corrobo-
rative of the violent character of the signs and degrees referred to in
our former positions.
RECENT FIRE IN EDINBURGH.
On the 24th of June, 1824, many families in Edinburgh were re-
duced to the greatest distress by a fire which broke out in that city,
and consumed a great number of houses ; and we now proceed to
lay down the positions of the heavens pending this recent calamity :
June 24, 1 ©
1824. J
2. 29
8
D 29.49 yl4.15R.
n
h 1 . 55
n
^ 18.
1
$ 6. 53 $ 23 .9 §11.33
The first thing that particularly strikes our attention in this sketch,
is the posture of the planet Jupiter in eTartcer, the ascendant of
Scotland, where he had been for many months preceding the catas-
trophe, and for at least two months previous to the fire, within orbs
of an opposition to (Seorgium J|itJU0 from tropical signs. We are
next reminded that the 0im, on the day of the fire, is egressing from
Gemini, and applying to a quartile with $|9as0* Saturn, at the time
when this fire happened, had not been in the sign Gemini more than
176 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
sixteen days ; and with whom QTat0, who was in the sign Hibra, was
within orbs of a trine aspect. (Berm0 and 3£ar0, it will be farther
observed, both occupy the destructive degrees of Gemini.
In a preceding part of this work, it was remarked, that the sex-
tile and trine of Saturn and 3Ear0, from the signs <&rie0, (Scmini, Hi-
bra, and £a8ittariu0, have always been remarkably evil ; and some-
times have proved even more so than their quartiles and oppositions
from other signs : and such aspects will be found to seldom occur
without being followed by very destructive fires, dreadful suicides,
horrid murders, and untimely deaths.
The chief of those calamities, of a public nature, which have hap-
pened in these parts for the last thirty years from fire, and the con-
figurations of the heavens having been attached to each event, a fair
opportunity is thus afforded of determining the aspects that denote
great conflagrations. The reader will have the goodness to remember
that, upon commencing this retrospective survey, a rule was laid
down as to the particular signs, and particular degrees of such signs,
that predominate over events of this nature, according as they happen
to be excited by the influence of any planetary transit. The events
have then been collected in regular succession, without selecting or
omitting any case of public importance ; and by examining them,
one after another, as they have happeued, the fidelity of the rules
previously laid down will be conspicuously evident.
The science of astrology is founded upon the coincidence between
the celestial influences or signs and terrestrial events. Facts from
time immemorial have been collected, and found to uniformly corre-
spond with peculiar aspects : hence, in the course of time, a body of
rules have been framed for the purpose of prejudging what events
might be approaching from the return of those mutual configurations
among the planetary bodies which are constantly taking place. If a
rule has held good in one age, it may be expected to do so in an-
other : and if it has been verified from age to age, none but the most
conceited theorists will venture to dispute its validity. The rule
here proposed concerning calamities by fire has, we trust, been suffi-
ciently attested to claim the faith of every practitioner in the science:
and we venture to say that, if judiciously employed, it will very
rarely, if ever, be found to fail. Raphael.
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL AFFLUENCE. 177
THE ASPECTS OF THE PLANETS WHICH ACCOMPANIED
TWO PRODIGIOUS FIRES.
On the 2d of September, 1666, the great fire of London broke out,
which burnt down, in the space of three days, 13,200 dwelling-
houses, and 89 parish churches, the whole loss being estimated at
ten millions sterling, at the value of money in those days, which was
more than treble what it now is. The positions of the planets at the
commencement of the fire were as follows :
—
Sept. 2, 1 n£ X I t I V? I X
1666. J 019.40 » 9. 38 | y 2 . 11 | T? 14.11 |
% 24. 11 R.
$ 20.36 I $ 25.55
-a.
g 13.53
You will here see that the planet 3fupiter had just come to the
ominous degrees of JDiflceg, which we have, in former cases, shown
to indicate fires, where he is retrograde, and the eun in CUrco ap-
plying to opposition with him. The planets QTercurg and ©cnu0
also were both in Hibra, where their influence, as before pointed out,
is remarkable for causing fires ; and the former of these is, as you
will observe, in quartile with Saturn from the sign Capricorn* The
©eorgium Sftius, we may also add, occupied a place in the ominous
sign £>agittariu0.
THE DESTRUCTION OF THE OPERA HOUSE, HAYtoARKET„
AND MANCHESTER THEATRES, BY FIRE.
We take the opportunity of directing the attention of the reader
to two other cases, equally confirmatory as the former of our opi-
nions.
On the 17th of June, 1789, the Opera House in the Haymarket
was entirely destroyed by fire ; and on the following day the Man-
chester Theatre shared the same fate, when the planets were posited
as follows :
—
June 17, I n I t 1
trti | x I a
1789. J
026.35 | d 15.29 |
#11.21 | J? 23. 6 j.ii 1 . 3
8 S3 <2>
$ 19. 6 | $ 1 . 17 J $ 21 .34
N
17S THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
It may now be perceived that the 01m had just separated from a
quartile aspect with the planet Saturn* the former being within the
evil degrees of Gemini, while the latter is approaching those in
Pisces. The planet 5?en3C£ell is, also, within orbs of opposition with
Saturn : and the latter of these planets is within one degree of the
place of 3fupiter at the fire of 1666 ; a strong testimony that the de-
grees we have before mentioned are very apt to cause fires.
J. L. X.
A QUOTATION FROM A WORK OF SINGULAR MERIT,
Lately published by that eminent constitutional Lawyer, Jeremy Ben-
tham, Esq.
•'On the question what lata is, so long as the rule of action is
kept in the state of common, alias unwritten, alias imaginary law,
authority, though next to nothing, is every thing. The question is,
what, on a given ocasion, A. (the judge) is likely to think ? Wait
until your fortune has been spent in the inquiry, and you will know.
But, forasmuch as it is naturally a man's wish to be able to give a
guess what the result will eventually be, before he has spent his for-
tune in the view ; if possible, to avoid spending his fortune, and
getting nothing in return for it, he applies, through the medium of
B. (an attorney) for an opinion, to C. (a counsel) who, considering
what D. (a former judge) has, on a subject supposed to be more or
less analagous to the one in question, said, or been supposed to say,
deduces therefrom his guess as to what, when the time comes, Judge
A. he thinks, will say, and gives it you. A shorter way would be
to put the question at once to A. ; but for obvious reasons this is not
permitted.
"On many cases, again, as well-grounded a guess might be had of
an astrologer for five shillings, as of a counsel for twice or thrice as
many guineas: but the lawyer considers the astrologer as a smug-
gler, and puts him down."
179
ILLUSTRATION, No. XIV.
CIRCLE II.—SECT. VIII.
EARTHQUAKE AND VIOLENT HEAT
AT
LISBON.
Ix the Times newspaper of August the 7th, is contained an account
of an earthquake, accompanied by extraordinary atmospheric phe-
nomena, which recently visited Lisbon ; and from which the follow-
ing is an extract :
—
" Lisbon, July 19th, 1824.—This morning, at five o'clock, a
slight shock of an earthquake was felt in this city. We have had
intense heat for three days. Farenheit's thermometer has been at
100 degrees in the shade.
" The excessive heats experienced in this city on the 18th, 19th,
and 20th of June, and which did such damage to the fields, deserve
also some observation.
n2
180 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
" On the 17th and 18th, Farenheit's thermometer, in the open
air, and in the shade, was from 92 degrees to 96, at two o'clock ;
and from 79 to 83 degrees, at midnight.
** On the 19th, exposed to a hot wind from the north-east, it rose
to 105 degrees. This burning wind did immense damage* The
wind was so hot that the thermometer, even at midnight, when ex-
posed to it, stood at 91 degrees.
u On the morning of the 20th, it fell to 83 degrees ; rose at two in
the afternoon to 103 degrees; and at midnight was again at 83 de-
grees.
" On the 21st and 22d, a sea-breeze from the south-west cooled
the air, so that the thermometer was only 81 degrees, and 76 degrees
in the hot hours: and it fell at midnight to 73 degrees, and to 68
degrees.
" It is to be noticed, that on the 19th the thermometer, in the
open air, did not rise to more than 100 degrees.
*' It is impossible to calculate the damage done by the terrible
phenomena of the 19th; we can state, however, that the vines, in
elevated situations, exposed to the north-east, entirely lost the abun-
dant fruit with which they were loaded. We are also informed, that
a great many persons working in the fields were mortally struck by
the malignant influence of the excessive heat. Many animals shared
the same fate : and the leaves of trees and other plants were com-
pletely dried up and reduced to dust."
Whatever causes in nature might have conspired to produce these
extraordinary phenomena, it is not easy to determine. The sign
Hibra is, however, considered to be the ascendant of Hiierjoit: and,
admitting this to have been correctly appointed, as the present cir-
cumstances bespeak it, the catastrophe may be accounted for as fol-
lows. The hot, dry, fiery, malignant, violent planet, $$ar0—
a
planet ever celebrated for producing pestilential heat and ungenial
winds, was making his transit through the ascendant of Lisbon at
the time of the extraordinary weather described in the account. He
was also in quartile to &eoraium ^itJU0 in Capricorn and to Jupiter,
CKernw, flpereurp, and the gun, all in the tropical sign Cancer, on the
19th of July, when the shock of the earthquake was felt.
CHRONICLE OP CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 181
On the 18th of June, when the hot winds commenced, #$ar0 was
in the beginning of the sign libra, in aspect to^ercurgand Saturn,
who had just changed his sign, and entered Gemini : in which sign,
also, at the time, were ©emi0, fljtocurp, and the $un, opposing
H?!0Ce0, the general ascendant of the Portuguese nation, in which sign
was seated the moon.
These positions, taken altogether, had no doubt a great share in
producing the strange consequences described : but much may be
nevertheless ascribed to the approaching quartile of $$ar0 with 3lupiter,
which planet has much to do in whatever relates to Portugal : and
this approaching quartile is also from powerful signs ; the one tro-
pical, the other equinoctial.
Be, however, the planetary cause whatever it may, we have given
underneath the positions of the orbs for the two chief days when the
influence prevailed, that our readers may make what addition they
please to our observations.
June 18, 1824. | 27 n | D 13x |
#28^>R. | fcln | 1fl6«
$4s± | $ 13n |
«8n.
July 19, 1824. | 26® | ]>28r I ¥ 13 V? R-
I h* n | lf23©
S\9& |
?23c2> |
«19©
H. W.
THE CONSTELLATION OF
€f)e £out|)cctt GtxoM.
The following account of this remarkable group of stars is taken
from Professor Humboldt's interesting travels.
" The lower regions of the air, he conceives, were loaded with
vapours for some days. We saw distinctly, for the first time, the
GtO00 of the South only in the night of the 4th and 5th of July,
in the 16th degree of latitude. It was strongly inclined, and ap-
peared from time to time between the clouds ; the centre of which,
furrowed by uncondensed lightnings, reflected a silver light.
"The pleasure felt on discovering the *&out$crn Cro00 was warmly
shared by such of the crew as had lived in the colonies.
" In the solitude of the seas we hail the #tO00 as a friend from
182 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
whom we bave long been separated ; and among the Portuguese and
Spaniards, peculiar motives seem to increase this feeling. A reli-
gious sentiment attaches them to the constellation ; the form of which
recalls the sign of the faith planted by their ancestors in the deserts
of the new-found world.
" The two great stars which mark the summit and the foot of the
Cross having nearly the same right ascension, it follows that the
constellation is almost vertical at the moment it passes the meridian.
This circumstance is known to every nation that lives beyond the
tropics, or in the southern hemisphere.
" It is known at what hour of the night, in different seasons, the
©outfjetn €xo00 is erect or inclined. It is a time-piece that ad-
vances very regularly nearly four minutes a day ; and no other group
of stars exhibits to the naked eye an observation of time so easily
made.
" How often have we heard our guides exclaim, in the Savannahs
of Venezuela, or in the desert, extending from Lima to Truxillo,
Midnight is past, the &ro#0 begins to bend 1' How often these
words reminded us of that affecting scene, where Paul and Virginia,
seated near the source of the river of Lataniers, conversed together
for the last time, and when the Old Man, at the sight of the €>ou*
tf?em #ro00, warns them, ' that it is time to separate.*
" This constellation is in about 185 deg. of longitude, and its south
polar distance being only about 30 deg. it cannot be seen in the
northern parts of Europe."
The following beautiful lines, from the pen of Madame Hermans,
owe their origin to the above quotation :
—
In the silence and grandeur of midnight I tread
Where savannahs in boundless magnificence spread ;
And, bearing sublimely their snow-wreaths on high,
The far Cordilleras unite with the sky.
The fern-tree waves o'er me ; the fire-fly's red light,
With its quick glancing splendour, illumines the night
;
And I read in each tint of the sky and the earth,
How distant my steps from the place of my birth !
CHRONICLE OF CELESTIAL INFLUENCE. 183
But to thee, as thy load-stars resplendently burn
Iw their clear depths of blue, with devotion 1 turn,
Bright 2Tro0O of the South! and beholding thee shine,
Scarce regret the lov'd land of the olive and vine.
Thou recallest the ages, when first o'er the main
My fathers unfolded the streamers of Spain,
And planted their faith in the regions that see
Its unperishing symbol emblazoned in thee
!
How oft, in their course o'er the oceans unknown,
Where all was mysterious, and awfully lone,
Hath their spirit been cheer'd by thy light, when the deep
Reflected its brilliance in tremulous sleep.
As the vision that rose to the Lord of the world
When first his bright banner of faith was unfurl'd
—
Even such, to the heroes of Spain, when their prow
Made the billows a path of their glory, wert thou !
And to me, as I traverse the world of the west.
Through deserts of beauty, in stillness of rest,
By forests and rivers, untamed in their pride,
Thy beams have a language, thy course is a guide.
Shine on ! my own land is a far-distant spot,
And the stars of thy spheres can enlighten it not ;
And the eyes which I love, though e'en now they may be
O'er the firmament wand' ring, can gaze not on thee
!
But thou to my thoughts art the pure blazing shrine,
A fount of bright hopes, and of visions divine
;
And my soul, as an eagle, exulting and free,
Soars high o'er the Andes, to mingle with thee !
Stella.
184 THE AbTllOLOGEU OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
SCIENTIFIC OBSERVATIONS.
<9*- potg on tfje £tm.
An amateur of astronomy at Prague, M. de Biela, an officer of
grenadiers, remarked two facts highly important to that science, in
the last comet, which was discovered by him on the 30th December,
last year.
The first of these facts confirms an opinion which he had previously
advanced, that the proximity of comets has an influence on the lumi-
nous state of the Sun. In fact, from the 23d and 24th of October,
1822, a period at which a comet was in its perihelion, until the 5th
of December, 1823, he did not observe any spot in the Sun. On
the 5th December, he saw a large spot, which regularly increased on
the surface of the Sun till the 13th of December. On the 21st of
the same month, a second large spot was observed, about to quit the
surface of the Sun, and which had, no doubt, been produced some short
time before. On the 30th December the first spot again became visi-
ble, on that half of the Sun which was turned towards us, and conti-
nued regularly to enlarge, until the 6th of January, 1824, when
bloomy weather prevented it from being longer observed.
It is calculated that the comet passed into its perihelion in the
night between the 9th and 10th of December, at a distance from the
Sun of about half that of Mercury.
On the 7th of January, the time at which the first spot ought to
have shown itself for the third time on the Sun, it did not appear ;
and the Sun remained without spots until the 16th of January.
If this discovery of a relation between comets and the spots in the
Sun should be confirmed, it will be very important ; for several astro-
nomers besides Herschel have remarked, that the spots in the Sun have
a sensible influence on our temperature.
185
ILLUSTRATION, No. XV,
CIRCLE III.—SECT. T,
MAGIC CEREMONIES, CHARMS,
AND
Mtmtt\tion$>
COMPRISING THE ANCIENT PRACTICE OF RAISING
SPIRITS
&ni3 Unfeorating \%t SSratr.
Compiled from a Selection of the most approved Authors, both ancient
and modern, and from original Manuscripts in the Libraries at the
British Museum, Bristol Cathedral, and Wells; the Bodleian Library,
and Ashmolean Museum at Oxford ; together with a variety of curi-
ous Occult Secrets from MSS. in the Possession of the Mercurii,
and other valuable Sources of authentic Information.
Having proceeded to this high and mysterious part of our sub-
ject, it will not be amiss to caution the inexperienced reader, that
186 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
the following observations are compiled from an attentive study of
the selectest authors, and the choicest manuscripts which could be
procured ; and, although it is contrary to reason to suppose that so
many eminent men, in all ages, would have written on the subject
merely for the purpose of deluding or deceiving the unwary or the
credulous, yet the reader must not suppose that we ourselves will
avouch for the actual possibility of all we hereafter shall relate, our
chief object in this work being a development of the sublime studies
which occupied the attention of the ancient philosophers, and which
have hitherto been as a sealed book to the greater part of the com-
munity, or at best involved beneath a cloud of enigmas, which it shall
now be our business to solve, dispute, and also to give a general ex-
planation relative to the mysterious doctrines of cabalistical and
ceremonial magic.
CIRCLE III.—SECT. II.
<®£ EMrilfcjences antr Spirit**
In their different Orders ; also of Subterraneous and Infernal Agents.
According to the theory and belief of the ancient Thurgists,
an intelligence is an intelligible substance, free from all gross ter-
restrial matter, immortal, and of supernatural influence, and the
nature of all 3[ntelliflence0, €>pirit0, and 9ncel0, is the same. From
this term, however, the infernal spirits are exempted. Of the 3n<»
gel0 there are three kinds : the first of which we call supercelestial,
and minds altogether separated from a body, being, as it were, intel-
lectual spheres worshipping only one God, as it were, their most firm
and stable unity or centre. Wherefore they even call them Gods,
by reason of a certain participation of the Divinity, for they are
always full of God, are always about the Supreme Being, infusing
the light received from Him unto the inferior orders, making an equal
distribution of power and duty.
The £ele0tial 3fntellicenee0 follow in the second order, which are
called mundane angels, viz. being appointed, besides the divine wor-
ship, for the spheres of the world, and for the government of every
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 187
heaven and star ; whence they are divided into so many orders as
there are heavens in the world, and as there are stars in the heavens.
Thus, the ancients termed those Saturnine who ruled the sphere of
# atujcn ; others Jovial, Martial, and so on throughout the whole
order of the heavens. And the ancients also placed in the starry
heavens angels who might rule the signs, triplicities, decans, quina-
ries, degrees, and stars. Therefore they established twelve princes
of the angels, who rule the twelve signs of the zodiac, and thirty-six
who rule the decans, and seventy-two others who may rule so many
quinaries of heaven, with the tongues of men and nations, and four
who may rule the triplicities and elements, and seven governors of
the whole world, according to the seven planets ; and they have given
to all of them names and 0eal0, which they call characters, using them
in their invocations, incantations, &c. &c. For instance, if at any
time they operated for the 01m, they invocated by the name of the
eun, by the names of the solar angels, and so of the rest. *
Thirdly, they established angels, as ministers for the disposing of
those things below, which Origen called certain invisible powers, to
which those things which are on earth are committed to be disposed
of. For, according to them, sometimes they, Jbeing invisible, do direct
our journeys, and all our business, are often present at our battles,
and by secret helps do give the desired success to their friends ; for
at their pleasure they can procure prosperity and inflict adversity.
In like manner they distribute these into more orders; so some are
fierp, some toaterg, some aerial, and some tetre0trial: which four spe-
cies of angels are computed according to the four powers of the
celestial souls, viz. the mind, reason, imagination, and the vivifying
or mobuce faculty. Hence the fierg follow the mind of the celestial
souls, concurring to the contemplation of more divine things. But
the aerial follow reason, favouring the rational faculty, after a certain
manner, separating it from the sensitive and vegetative. Therefore
it serves for an active life, as the fiery for the contemplative; but the
toaterg follow the imagination, serving for a voluptuous life ; the
§artf?i£ following nature, and favouring vegetation.
Some of these are also oriental, some occidental, some meridional,
* Vide Psellus de Opeiatiunc Damionium.
188 THIS ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
some iseptentrional. Moreover, according to the ancients, there is no
part of the woijjd destitute of the proper assistance of these angels,
not because they are alone, but because they reign there especially ;
for they are every where, although some especially operate and have
their influence in this place, and some elsewhere. Neither, truly,
are these things to be understood as though they were subject to the
influence of the stars ; but, as they have corresponded with the hea-
ven above the world, from whence especially all things are directed,
and to which all things ought to be conformable : whence, as these
angels are appointed for divers stars, so also for divers places and
times, not that they are limited to any place or time, neither by the
bodies which they are appointed to govern ; but because divine wis-
dom hath so decreed ; therefore they favour more and patronize those
bodies, places, times, stars, &c. and hence are called diurnal, noc-
turnal, meridional, and septentrional. Thus, the ancients termed
some woodmen, some mountaineers, some fieldmen, some domestics.
Hence the Deities of the Woods, Satyrs, Familiars, Fairies,
Nymphs, Naiades, Dryades, Pierides, Hamadryades,
Muses, the Graces, Genii, and such like; some of whom they
affirm are so familiar with men, that they are even affected with
human perturbations ; by whose instructions Plato thinks that men
do wonderful things, even as by the instruction of men. And they
report that there are so many legions as there are stars in the hea-
ven, and so many spirits in every legion as there are in heaven
itself stars. Yet, according to St. Athanasius, the number of good
spirits is according to the number of men, ninety-nine parts, accord-
ing to the parable of the Ten Goats ; others suppose the number of
the angels equal with men, because it is written, he hath appointed
the bounds of the people according to the number of the angels of
God ; and concerning their number others have written many things:
but the modern theologians, following Austin and Gregory, easily re-
solve themselves, saying, that the number of the good Angels tran-
scendeth human capacity, to the which, on the contrary, innumera-
ble unclean spirits do correspond, there being as many impure spirits
in the inferior world as good spirits in the superior ; and some divines
do not scruple to affirm that they have received this by revelation.*
* Vide Orao. Magica. Zoroas, and Bodin's Dsemonomania.
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 189
Under these they place a kind of spirits subterraneous, or obscure,
which the Platonists call angels that failed, revengers of wickedness
and ungodliness, according to the decree of divine justice ; and they
call them evil angels and wicked spirits, because they often annoy
and hurt, even of their own accord. Of these, also, they reckon
more legions, and in like manner distinguishing them according to
the names of the stars and elements, and parts of the world. They
also place over them kings, princes, and rulers, of which four most
powerful and evil spirits rule over the other, according to the four
quarters of the world. Under these many more princes of legions
govern, and many private officers, as the <$orfione0, ©tatenocte, tli*
0ip!?one, aieeto, $$ecara, anti eTerberiw*
This kind of spirits, according to Porphyry, inha&t a place nigh
to the earth—yea, within the earth itself ; there is no mischief which
they dare not commit : they have altogether a violent and hurtful na-
ture, therefore they plot and endeavour violent and sudden mis-
chiefs, and, when they make incursions, sometimes they lie hid, and
sometimes offer open violence, being very much delighted in all
things done wickedly and mischievously.*
CIRCLE III.-SECT. III.
©f tfie iUames of Spirits,
AND THEIR VARIOUS DESCRIPTIONS;
ALSO OF
SPIRITS THAT RULE THE STARS, SIGNS, AND ELEMENTS.
Many and different are the names of good and bad spirits, but
their proper and true names, as those of the stars, are known only to
God, who alone" numbers the multitude of stars, and calls them by
their names, whereof none can be known by us, but by divine reve-
lation ; very few are expressed to us in sacred writ. But the Hebrew
Rabbis think that the names of angels were imposed on them by
Adam, according to that which is written, *' The Lord brought all
things which he had made unto Adam, that he should name them
;
and as he called any thing, so the name thereof was." Hence the
* Vide Delr. Disq. Magic, 1. 14. also Schot. Physic. Curios; and Philostrat. in
Vita, Apoloni.
190 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
HeWew M&cubals* think, together with magicians and cabalists. that
it is in the power of man to impose names upon spirits, but of such
a man only who is dignified and elevated to this virtue by some di-
vine gift or sacred authority ; but because a name that may express
the nature of divinity, or the whole virtue of angelical essences, can-
not be made by any human voice, therefore names for the most part
are put upon them from their works, signifying some certain office
or effect which is required by the order of Spirits ; which name then,
and not otherwise, obtains efficacy and virtue to draw any spiritual
substance from above, or beneath, to make any desired effect.
Thus, an intelligent writer on magicf declares, he has seen and
known some persons, who, writing on virgin parchment, the name
and seal of some spirit, in the hour of the moon, which they after-
wards gave to be devoured by a water frog, and rehearsing a certain
verse, letting the frog go into the water, great rains and showers fol-
lowed. Also, the same person, inscribing the name of another spi-
rit with the seal thereof in the hour of $$ar0, which was given to a
crow, upon the crow being set at liberty, and a verse applicable
thereto rehearsed, there followed from that part of heaven whither it
flew, lightnings and horrible thunders, with thick clouds.
Also, the names of some angels are IKapIjael, Gabriel, $$icl>ael t Ma-
ntel, which is as much as to say, the vision of God, the virtue of God,
the strength of God, the glory of God, &c. In like manner, in the offices
of evil demons, are read their names, viz. a player, a deceiver, a
dreamer, a fornicator, and many such like.
So we receive from many of the ancient fathers and the Hebrews,
the names of angels set over the planets and signs :
Thus the spirit of §>atum is GTassiel, in the order of Thrones.
the spirit of J\u$itet is ^atJ&iel, in the order of Dominations.
the spirit of £$ara is Samael, ^in the order of Potentates.
the spirit of Sol is 0^icf)ael, in the order of Virtues.
the spirit of (Bertus is tyartael, in the order of Principalities
the spirit of Luna is (Sabricl, in the order of Angels.
And the spirit of Sgkrcurp is ISapfjael in the order of Archangels.
* Wier de Prcest. Dam. 2, c. 4, et sea .
f Bairctt's Magus, book 2, page 5o.
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 191
These are those seven spirits which always stand before the face
of God, to whom is entrusted the disposing of the whole celestial and
terrene kingdoms which are under the region of the moon ; for these
(as the more curious theologians say) govern all things by a certain
vicissitude of hours, days, and years. As the ancient astrologers
teach concerning the planets which they are set over, which A/eraz-
rius Trismegistus calls the seven governors of the world, who, by the
heavens as by instruments, distribute the influences of all the signs
and stars, upon their inferiors.
Again, the ancients have two other* superior orders of spirits,
answering to two spheres of the Heavens, distinct from the planetary
regions, namely $9etf>ratton, in the ninth orb of Heaven, in the order
of Seraphims, and IRajacI, in the starry orb of Heaven, in the order
of Cherubims.f And every one of the planetary spirits^ governs the
world 354 years and 4 months, the government beginning from the
intelligence of £ aturn ; afterwards, in order, the intelligences of
Kupiter, &emi0, $£ar0, & ol, Huna, and £J
ercurp, the government
again returning to the spirit of £ aturn. j|
Trithemius, the famous Abbot of Spanheim, wrote a special trea-
tise concerning these, which he that will thoroughly examine may
from thence draw great knowledge of future times. Over the ttocltJe
signs of the ?otitac, are set these—viz." over Sriea the spirit $$aiafn-
* This singular order of other spiritual rulers, in addition to the seven planetary
spirits, making in the whole nine orders, proves that the system of the ancients
was not founded in delusion ; for, as above shown, they have two other orders of
spirits, which are not attributed to any star or planet, but merely to the sphere of
Heaven. So that the discovery of an eighth planet does in no way overturn the
ancient system of magic, but seems to hint that there is a possibility of the exist-
ence of another planet still more remote than Herschel ; whose immense dis-
tance, as it wanders through the boundless regions of infinite space, has hitherto
hindered its discovery by our best astronomers, but which we firmly believe will,
by its future discovery, give a new and enlarged idea of the now generally re-
ceived solar system.
f Jfta5a?{ is thus the spirit of ^tfl'^cfjcl according to the above division, and is
mote powerful than the spirit of Saturn, even as the influence of ty£V$cf)ZX ex-
deeds that of Saturn.
J Trinum Magicum ; also Peucer de Divinatione, &c
§ Vide Agrippa de Occul. Philosoph. lib. 4.
1| Steganographia, Ars perOccultam Scriplura>/i,&c §c. per Joanne Arithem io,t$c.
199 THF. ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Uael ; over Taurus the spirit Ssmotiel ; over Gemini the spirit ^m-
briel ; over Cancer, the spirit S^utiel ; over Heo the spirit Oirc&iel;
over (Uirco the spirit Gamaliel; over Hibra the spirit Huriel : over
Scorpio the spirit Barafriel ; over Sagittarius the spirit ^itroaclnel ; over
Capricorn the spirit i^anael ; over Aquarius the spirit Cambiel ; over
Pisces the spirit ^Barc|)iel.
Of these spirits set over the planets and signs, St. John makes
mention of in the Revelation, speaking of the former in the begin-
ning, and the seven spirits which are in the presence of the throne of
God, which we find are attributed to the seven planets in that part
where he describes the platform of the heavenly city, saying, that on
the twelve gates thereof are twelve angels.
There are, again, twenty-eight angels, who rule in the twenty-eight
mansions of the moon ; there are also four Princes of the Angels,
which are set over the four winds, and over thefour parts of the world.
Thus, £Pic£aet is placed over the east wind, Eap^ael over the west,
(Sabriel over the north, and <iriel over the south. There are also as-
signed to the elements these,—to the air <ZTi)eub, to the^re €>eapl?, to
the earth ^'rie0, and to the water t!Ti?arri0. Now every one of these
spirits is a great prince, and has much power and freedom in the do-
minion of his own planets and signs, and in their times, years,
months, days, and hours ; also in their elements, parts, and winds.
Every one of these princes bears rule over many legions of immortal
spirits ; likewise, after the same manner, amongst evil spirits, there
are four, who, as most potent kings, are set over the rest, according
to the four parts of the world, whose names are these : SDrientf,
king of the east ; ©agmon, king of the west ; Cfitn, king of the north,
and ^tnaptnou, king of the south.f Which the Hebrew Doctors
affirm to be most powerful spirits, under whom many others rule as
princes of legions. Likewise there are innumerable demons of pri-
vate offices ; moreover, the ancient Grecian Theurgists reckon up
six demons, which they call Telchines or Alastores, " who, bearing
ill will to men, take up (as they figuratively express it) water out of
the river Styx with their hands, and sprinkle it upon the earth,
whence follow calamities, plagues, and famines ;" and these are said
* Vide Cicognae Magi a Omnifaria, &c. also Psell de Oper Daemon.
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 193
to be Acteus, Magalezius, Qrmenus, Lycus, Nicon^ and Minon ; and,
although in the exact nomenclature of these spirits some ancient au-
thors are found to differ, yet both the ancient and modern Theurgists
aie unanimous in the description of their several orders and offices.*
EXTRAORDINARY VOICE—WARNING TO QUIT A DAN-
GEROUS HOUSE.
From CalmeVs " Dissertation on Apparitions."
A gentleman in France, by profession a lawyer, and, as is usual
for lawyers there, a counsellor of the Parliament of Paris, being in
bed, and fast asleep, was awakened by a voice, which repeated several
times something which he could not understand ; but he got up on
this extraordinary occasion, and wrote down the words which he had
heard, in French characters, as follows : " Apithi, onk osphrainay
ten seen apsychian." Having done so, he endeavoured to sleep again,
but could not shut his eyes all the rest of the night, the strange words
continually sounding in his ears ; and finding himself extremely un-
easy, he determined to rise, and pass the time away by studying a
cause which he had to report that morning ; but still the strangeness
of the noise dwelt so upon his mind, that he could not at all fix his
attention ; he therefore went to a coffee-house very early, where,
meeting with some friends, he showed them the slip of paper he had
written from the unaccountable articulation he had heard ; when a
person present, M. de Saumaise, looking at it, declared the words to
be Syriac, and to mean, literally, " Depart, hast thou no apprehen-
sion of thy death ?" This translation was received with a loud laugh,
and the warning treated as a jest and an invention ; but the gentle-
man taking it in a more serious light, left his house the same day,
and it fell flat to the ground the following night
!
* Does not this seem to prove that there is something more than mere mystery
in these curious systems ?
194
ILLUSTRATION, No. XVI.
THE MYSTERIOUS LETTERS DELIVERED BY HONORIUS,
CALLED THE
OTjefcan gllpljafcet.
CIRCLE III.—SECT. IV.
There is among Theurgists a writing which they call celestial,
because they show it us placed and figured amongst the stars. There
is also another kind of character received by Revelation only, and
which cannot be found out any other way ; the virtues of which are
from the Deity revealing them, of whom there are some secret works
breathing out an harmony of the divinity, or they are, as it were,
some certain agreements or compacts of a league between us and
them. Of this kind, was the sign in the Heavens revealed to Con-
stantine, " In hoc vince." Also, that revealed to Antiochus, in the
MAGIC CEttEMONIES, &C. 195
figure of a pentangle, signifying health ; for, being resolved into
letters, it speaks the word vyUnz, i. e. health. In the faith and vir-
tue of which signs, both kings obtained a great victory against their
enemies. So, also, Judas, who by reason of that was afterwards
sumarued Machabeus, being to fight with the Jews, against Antiochus
Eupator, received from an angel a notable sign, »22D, in the virtue
of which they first slew 1 1,000, with an infinite number of elephants,
and afterwards slew 35,000 of their enemies. For that sign did
represent the name of 3fef>0t)a|>, and was a memorable emblem of the
great name of seventy-two letters, by the equality of number; and the
exposition thereof is rvn'O '^Nl TED »D, i. e. who is there among thee
strong as 3ffl>0t)aJ> ?
The seals of spirits are widely different from the above, being
formed out of magical squares, circles, and pentacles: they are
chiefly dependent upon the power, virtue, and efficacy, of certain
mysteries relative to numerical powers ; and others depend upon the
office of the ruling angel, being essentially different in their forma-
tion, as well as use ; for each of the planetary spirits is accompanied
by an intelligence to good, and a spirit to evil ; which are also used
for various peculiar purposes. But the seals of the evil and familiar
spirits are more subject to arbitrary formation, being void of any
other demonstration, than as having been handed down to us by the
learned in those mysteries.
CIRCLE III.—SECT. V.
THE BONDS OF SPIRITS, THEIR ADJURATIONS, &c.
The bonds by which spirits are bound, besought, or cast out, are
three :* some of them are taken from the elemental world, as when
the Theurgist would adjure a spirit by any inferior and natural thing
of affinity with or adverse to them, inasmuch as we would call up, or
cast them out, as by fumigations offlowers, herbs, animals, snow, ice,
* Barrett's Magusi, page 67.
o2
196 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
or byfire, and such like ;* and these also are often mixed with divine
praises, and blessings, and consecrations, as appears in the Song of
the Three Children, and in the psalm " Magnificat" and in others
of the same signification. This bond works upon the spirits by an
apprehensive virtue, under the account of love or hatred, inasmuch
as the spirits are present with, or favour, or abhor, any thing that is
natural, or against nature, as these things themselves love or hate one
another.
The second bond is taken from the celestial world, viz. when they
are adjured by their heaven, by the stars, their motions, rays, light,
beauty, clearness, influence, and wonders, and such like. And this
bond works upon spirits, by way of admonition and example. It
hath also some command, especially upon the ministering spirits, and
those who are of the lowest orders.
The third bond is from the intellectual and divine world, which is
perfected by religion; that is to say, when they are adjured by the
sacraments, miracles, divine names, sacred seals, and other mysteries.
Wherefore, this bond is the highest of all, and the strongest, working
upon the spirits by command and power ; but this is to be observed,
that, as after the universal Providence, there is a particular one, and
after the universal soul, particular souls ; so, in the first place, we
invocate by the superior bonds, and by the names and powers which
* The following extraordinary magical virtues of herbs, &c. are extracted from
an ancient manuscript in the possession of " Raphael."—
" Anoint thee with the juice of canabus and archangel ; and, before a mirror of
steel, call spirits, and thou shalt see them, and have power to bind and to loose
them.
"The fume ofjleniculis chaseth away spirits.
"Take the herb avisum, and join it to camphire, and thou shalt see spirits, that
shall dread thee. It helpeth much to the achieving of secret things.
a Coriandrum gathereth spirits together ; a fume being made thereof with apio
nisquio, and lazias cicuta, urgeth spirits, and therefore it is said to be the herb of
spirits.
" Petersilion chaseth away all the spirits of riches.
" Take coriandrum of the second kind, which maketh one to sleep; and join
thereto croco, insgreno, and apio, and grind them together with the juice of hem-
lock ; then make a suffumigation therewith, and suffume the place where thou
wilt hide any treasure in, when the D is joined to the 0,in the angle of the earth;
and that treasure, so hidden, shall never be found
"Saturea is an herb which, being worn about one, giveth grace and good
fortune."
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 197
rule the things ; then by the inferior, and the things themselves. Thus,
also, by these bonds and adjurations, not only spirits, but also all
creatures, are bound ; as tempests, burnings, floods, plagues, diseases,
force of arms, and every animal, by assuming them, either by adjura-
tion, or deprecation, or benediction, as in the charming of serpents, &c.
besides the natural and celestial, by rehearsing out of the mysteries
of religion, the cure of the serpent in terrestrial paradise, the lifting
up of the serpent in the wilderness ; and, likewise, by assuming that
verse of the 91st Psalm, ** Thoushalt walk upon the asp and the basilisk,
and shalt tread upon the lion and the dragon"
The learned Cabalists have also taught that, by rehearsing any par-
ticular passage of Scripture, some effect will follow, according to
the vehement desire of the charmer, or he who repeats them.
The following are a few examples, delivered to us by oral testimony,
but which were probably deemed too curious to be commited here-
tofore to writing.
CIRCLE III.—SECT. IV.
©Sarmg for barioug ©ccagtong.
A iftfjarttt AGAINST FURIOUS BEASTS.
Repeat earnestly and with sincere faith these words :
—
" At destruction andfamine, thou shalt laugh, neither shalt thou be
afraid of the beasts of the earth,'
1
" For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field, and the
beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee."—Job, chap. 5, v. 22, 23.
a ctjarm against trouble in general.
" He shall deliver thee in six troubles, yea in seven there shall be no
evil touch thee.
]98 THE ASTUOLOGEK OF THE NINETEENTH OENTUKY.
" In famine he shall redeem thee from death, and in war from the
power of the sword.
«« And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be in peace, and thou
shalt visit thy habitation and shalt not err,
1 '*—Job, chap. 5, v. 19,
20, 24.
a Cfiarm against enemies.
" Behold, God is my salvation ; I will trust, and not be afraid, for
the Lord Jehovah is my strength and my song ; he also is become my
salvation,
" For the stars of heaven, and the constellations thereof, shall not give
their light; the sun shall be darkened in his goingforth, and the moon
shall not cause her light to shine,
*' And behold, at evening tide, trouble ; and before the morning he
is not ; this is the portion of them that spoil us, and the lot of them that
rob us," —Isaiah, chap. 12 and 17.
a arfjarm against peril by fire or water.
Thus, also, when we would avoid peril by fire or water, we make
use of this passage :
—• When thoupassest through the waters, I will
be with thee, and through the rivers they shall not overflow thee ; when
thouwalkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burnt, neither shall the
fame kindle upon thee,"—Isaiah, chap, 43, v. 2.
And as, according to the learned Cabalists, there is not a verse, line,
word, or even letter, in the Holy Scriptures which has not some par-
ticular and peculiar meaning, either offensive or defensive (being
read in the original Hebrew), so, according to them, the holy and
ineffable names of the Supreme Being, drawn from the sacred word
according to the rules of theurgic science, are equally powerful to
avert impending evils, &c. But they have been very desirous of keep-
ing their writings a profound secret, according as we read in Esdras
—'• Thou shalt deliver those books to the wise men of the people, whose
hearts thou knowest can comprehend them, and keep those secrets,"
Which is the reason why the greater part of the ancient writings
* Our "vei&ion hat. it " sin ;" but the original dignities thou shalt not " err."
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 199
were written in enigmatical language, and must be hieroglyphically
understood.
CIRCLE III.—SECT. VII.
tfafmlistical words of great efficacy.
I. To cause Destruction to Enemies.*
Out of the following passage, " Let their ways be dark and slip-
pery, and let the angel of the Lord pursue them" they draw forth the
name of the evil angel and messenger of mischief, $9irael or $@ifcafl,
^td, of the spiritual order of warriors : and, when they would de-
stroy an enemy, they made a talisman, cast at the time when the moon
was in evil aspect to Mars, affixing thereupon the above name fl^irael,
and the name of the enemy also whom they would subvert or destroy,
and the effect soon followed.
2. To give Divine Protection.
The Cabalists draw forth a name of great efficacy from the follow-
ing sentence :
«« You are everlasting power, God."
ALGA
From the above verse is drawn forth the great name of God, <ft gla,
(Alga transposed), and whoso would protect himself against enemies
must wear this great name continually about him, written on parch-
ment.
3. Other Divine Names.
The word or name 3fe0u is extracted from the following sentences
of HolyWrit: "Until the Messiah shall come," and " His name abides
till the end," by taking the first Hebrew letters of each word in this
manner :
—
iS>di^ ttfK *i and n»"|0 m\ id»
r
v •
r
m \
By which the name Jesu is formed.
* Ancient MSS. in the possession of tbeMercurii.
200 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Also the word 8men is extracted from the following verse : " The
Lord, the Faithful King :
—
pMi nvio '.arm
1 to *
By taking the three heads or three first letters of each word col-
lected and compounded together, which proves that the word Amen
is of great efficacy, and not without just cause used at the end of all
prayers by the Church of England. Thus, in like manner, did the
ancient Cabalists proceed in determining the names and powers of
good or evil spirits, and thus did they proceed in adjuring or binding
them, as they found occasion.
PREDICTION OF A BABYLONIAN ASTROLOGER.
Belesus, a Babylonian captain, skilled in astrology and divina-
tion beyond all the Chaldeans, told Arbaces, the prefect of Media,
" That he should be lord of that which Sardanapalus did then possess,
since his birth was favoured, as he knew, with a lucky position of
the stars.*' Arbaces, encouraged by this hope, conspired with the
Babylonians and Arabians: but the revolt being known, the rebels
were thrice overthrown by Sardanapalus.
The confederates, amazed at so many unhappy chances, determined
to return home. But Belesus, having all night made observation of
the stars, foretold that a considerable body of friends were coming
to their assistance, and that, in a short time, affairs would go on more
prosperously. Thus confirmed, they waited the time set down by
Belesus : in which it was told them, that the Bactrians were come in
aid of the king.
It seemed good to Arbaces and the rest to meet the Bactrians with
a select body, and to persuade them to revolt, or to force them. He
prevailed without blows, and they joined with his forces.
201
ILLUSTRATION No. XVII.
CIRCLE III.— SECT. VIIL
appearance of Spirits
According to an ancient MSS. the appearances of the four potent
rulers of the four mundane quarters are these :
—
1. THE SPIRIT <feriOI0, KING OF THE <£a0t.
He appeareth with a fair and feminine countenance, and a goodly
crown upon his head ; he rideth upon an elephant, having before
him numbers of musical instruments. Sometimes he appeareth in
the similitude of a horse ; and, when he is constrained by magical
incantations, assumeth a human shape. He hath under him 250
legions of inferior spirits. His power, according to the ancients, is
202 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
great, and he can answer truly to all demands, both past, present,
and to come.
2. THE SPIRIT OF $ai>m0tt, KING OF THE mittU
This spirit is powerful to evil, appearing in the likeness of an
armed soldier, riding upon a camel or dromedary, being crowned
with a bright crown ; his countenance is feminine, but his voice
hoarse and uncouth. Before him goeth all kinds of musical instru-
ments : yet, when constrained by art, he readily performs the desired
wishes of the invocator, and hath under him an infinity of spirits.
3. THE SPIRIT lEgitt, KING OF THE JiOrtf)*
This spirit is high and mighty. He appeareth in the form of a
man riding upon a dragon, with a regal crown : on each side of him
are hissing serpents. He cometh with a fearful and tremendous
noise, with many inferiors around him ; and under him are count-
less legions of mighty spirits. When constrained by powerful incan-
tations, this spirit assumes the form of a child, and the raising of this
spirit is less dangerous than of either of the preceding, and has proved
of great use to the magician, when rightly invoked. He discovers
treasures of the earth, and is very tractable.
4. THE SPIRIT ftmaglltOtt, KING OF THE £0Utt).
The spirit amagmon is great, high, and mighty, and terrible in
appearance. He usually assumes the form of an old man, with a
long beard, his ears being like to those of a horse, with a royal dia-
dem on his head. His first appearance is unusually tremendous
;
forked lightning and deep-mouthed thunders, shaking the earth appa-
rently to the centre, announce his awful appearance. Then suddenly
the earth will appear to vomit forth gushes of flame, and sulphureous
odours taint the charmed atmosphere. Anon, are heard all sorts of
musical instruments; then an uncouth clatter of creaking wheels and
horrid crashes, will every instant astound the invocator; but on a
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 203
sudden will all be again cairn ; and, clothed in the whole pomp of his
spiritual grandeur, attended by countless legions of invincible spirits,
3. mammon will be seen riding furiously on a fierce and roaring lion.
He will approach to the utmost limits of the space assigned him, and
it will well become the Theurgist to preserve his wonted calmness;
for, if he powerfully constrain, and urgently invoke, this furious spirit,
he may be brought to the most submissive obedience. He has power
to give knowledge, dignity, and great promotion. These four powerful
spirits are difficult to be constrained, or urged to visible appearance.
They are dangerous to contend with, and are " powers of evil,"
"swift to destruction." They bear an inveterate hatred to human
kind,will delude the Theurgist with lies and deceit, and in every other
way strive to render his work abortive. But if the Theurgist shall be
able to make them enter a consecrated pentacle, or a circle fortified
with divine names, they will be forced against their will to reveal
the truth : and he need fear no harm, if he be born under a right
constellation.
CIRCLE III.—SECT. IX,
FORMS AND APPEARANCES OF THE
Panetarg Spirits
These spirits, which are attributed to the seven planets, are
more easily called forth than the before-mentioned mighty princes
of the invisible world. And, in fact, the ceremonies necessary for
the incantations and constrictions for these assume a far more facile
and certain character than for the others. Neither can there be any-
thing so dangerous in the process of invocation ; for these spirits are
almost entirely subservient to human skill, especially where the invo-
cator wishes to converse with the spirits of that planet under which
he was born.*
* One argument brought forward against astrology, is, that the planets are inert
and senseless masses of matter, and devoid of any power to move the intellectual
faculties of mankind, born under them. Does not the above singular theory of
the ancient Magii—that the planets are governed by spirits—account, in a great
measure, for the demonstrable effects of their decided influence over human life?
204 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
spirits of Saturn**
The spirits of Saturn usually appear with a tall, slender, lean
body, very unwillingly, and having an angry countenance ; having
four faces, hosed or beaked. They appear and disappear incessantly,
and their colour is black and shining, but of very imperfect form.
Their motion is as swift as the wind, attended at times with an earth-
quake, or extraordinary tremulous motion of the earth.
Their particular shapes are
—
A4
king, bearded, riding on a dragon.
An old man with a beard.
An old woman, leaning on a crutch.
An hog.
A dragon.
An owl.
A black garment.
A hook or sickle.
A juniper-tree.
The spirits of Saturn are under the south-west wind. They usually
come at first with very terrific appearance ; and the sign of their ap-
pearance is white earth, whiter than snow. Their office is to sow
discords, hatred, evil thoughts, and cogitations; to kill, murder, and
commit every heinous crime, which the divine Providence shall per-
mit. They rule over Saturday, and are invoked the 1st, 8th, 15th,
and 22d hours of that day. j-
SPIRITS OF THE £uit.
The spirits of the sun generally appear in a large full body, san-
guine and gross, in a gold colour, with the tincture of blood. They
are very terrific and majestic in their appearance. Their motion is
as the winged lightning, accompanied by fearful thunders, and a
burning atmosphere.
» Vide Agrippa, book 4, and Barrett's Magus.
t The hours of the planets have undoubted influence in astrology, as anyone
who tries the experiment may soou prove ; an explanation of which will be given
hereafter.
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 205
Their particular forms are,
A king, with a sceptre, riding on a lion.
A king crowned.
A queen with a sceptre.
A bird.
A lion.
A cock.
A sceptre.
A yellow garment.
The spirits of the sun are under the north wind ; their sign is
causing a profuse perspiration upon the invocator.
Their nature is to procure gold, gems, carbuncles, diamonds, and
rubies ; and to cause one to obtain favour and benevolence, to dissolve
enmity, raise to honours, and take away infirmities. These spirits are
said to bear rule over Sunday. The hours are the same as those of
Saturn.
SPIRITS OF THE iHooit*
The spirits of the Moon appear generally of a great and full sta-
ture, soft and phlegmatic, of colour like a black obscure cloud,
having a swollen countenance, with eyes red and full of water, bald
heads, and teeth like those of a wild boar ; their motion is like an
exceeding great tempest of the sea. For their sign there will appear
an exceeding great rain about the circle.
Their particular forms are,
A king, like an archer, riding upon a doe.
A little boy.
A huntress with bow and arrows.
A cow.
A little doe.
A goose.
A green or silver-coloured garment.
An arrow.
A creature with many feet.
The spirits of the moon rule over Monday. They are accompa-
206 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
nied by tremendous and furious blasts of the west wind, * with clouds,
showers, and hail, and, when powerfully invocated, their appearance
has been known to have caused a most furious tempest, so much so
that the elements seemed involved in a general confusion.
The nature of the lunar spirits is to give silver, and to convey
things from place to place, to make horses swift, and to disclose the
secrets of persons both present and future.
SPIRITS OF MM*.
The spirits of Mars appear, for the most part, in a body tall and
choleric, a filthy countenance, of colour brown, swarthy, or red,
having horns like harts, and griffin's claws ; they come furiously
bellowing like wild bulls. Their motion is like fire burning, and
* The following curious facts were related to us by three gentlemen students,
of undoubted veracity, with whom we are well acquainted, and who actually
experienced them :
—
" On the night of September 22, 1822, we resolved upon invocating the spirits
of the moon, and accordingly, having prepared the circle, and used the necessary
ceremonies and incantations, there suddenly came such a furious storm of rain
and hail, and such a dreadful tempest arose, with 6uch fearful blasts of wind,
that the elements seemed as if waging war with each other; we every moment
expected the dome skylight over our heads would be shattered into a thousand
pieces The rain continued to fall in gushing torrents, the wind howled mourn-
fully, and the lightning flashed in our faces, while the thunder actually shook
the building to its foundations. Expecting these occurrences, we were nothing
dismayed thereat, but persisted, notwithstanding this fury of the elements, to
urge the spirits more powerfully to visible appearance. What followed we can-
not at present reveal: suffice it, we had ample proof of the reality of spiritual
agency. At the close of our mystic labours, as we were dismissing the spirits by
powerful restrictions, we. were suddenly astonished by a tremendous noise, evi-
dently supernatural ; for, had twenty parks of artillery, a hundred loaded wag-
gons, or a thousand pedestrians, passed by at this period, the noise we heard
could not have been equalled. It resembled the most furious crashes, incessant
cracking of whips, trampling of horses, sound of organs, and innumerable voices,
united in an unintelligible jargon. It lasted for nearly twenty minutes, without
intermission, and then suddenly ceased ! As soon as we could (which was al-
most on the instant the noise ceased), we rushed into the street, eagerly inquiring
of the guardians of the night if any vehicles or if any particular company had
passed; but they all agreed none had gone by. This was a little before two
o'clock in the morning (our ceremonies began at midnight), and the experiment
was performed in a now dilapidated, but once fashionable place of public resort,
at the west end of the town."
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 207
the signs of their appearance are thunder and lightning about the
magic circle.
Their particular shapes are,
A king armed, riding on a wolf.
An armed warrior.
A female with spear and buckler.
A she goat.
A horse.
A stag.
A red garment.
A quantity of wool.
A cowslip.
These spirits bear rule over Tuesday, and are under the east wind;
they are best invocated upon that day, in the hour of Mars. Their
nature is to bring or cause war, mortality, death, combustions, and
to perform strange exploits.
spirits of jfttmuran
The spirits of Mercury appear, for the most part, in a body of a
middle stature, cold, liquid, and moist, fair, and of an affable speech,
in a human shape and form, like an armed knight, of clear and
bright colour. Their motion is like silver-coloured clouds, and the
sign of their appearance is an unaccountable horror and fear upon the
invocator.
Their particular forms are,
A king, riding upon a bear.
A fair youth.
A woman holding a distaff.
A dog.
A she bear.
A magpie.
A garment of various changeable colours.
A rod or staff.
These spirits are generally accompanied by a south-west wind, and
208 THE ASTROTiOOER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
are said to bear rule over Wednesday. Their nature is to give all
sorts of metals, to reveal all earthly things, past, present, or future,
to pacify judges, to give victory in war, to teach experiments and all
ancient sciences, to change bodies mixed of elements, conditionally,
out of one thing into another, to give health or infirmities, to raise
the poor and humble the rich, to bind or loose spirits, to open con-
strictions, &c. They are easily brought to visible appearance.
spirits of setter.
These spirits appear with a body sanguine and choleric, of a
middle stature, with a horrible fearful motion, but with a mild coun-
tenance and a gentle speech, and of the colour of iron. Their mo-
tion is accompanied with tremendous thunders and vivid lightnings.
The sign of their appearance is generally announced by numbers of
imperfect and horrid forms, lions, &c.
Their particular forms are,
A king with a drawn sword, riding on a stag.
A man wearing a mitre, clothed in long garments.
A virgin adorned with flowers, and crowned with laurel.
A bull fiercely roaring.
A stag.
A peacock.
An azure garment.
A sword.
A box-tree.
They are said to bear rule over Thursday. They are accompa-
nied by a south wind, very strong and powerful, resembling an hur-
ricane : their nature is to procure the love of women, to cause men
to be merry and joyful, to pacify strifes and contentions, appease
enemies, to heal diseases and cause sickness, to procure losses, and
to restore what is lost. They are very difficult to be invocated or
constrained.
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 20^
SPIRITS OF Vcnm.
The spirits of Venus appear with a fair body, of mean stature,
with an amiable and pleasant countenance, of colour white or green,
their upper parts golden : their motion is like a clear star. For the
sign of their coming there will appear innumerable forms of handsome
maidens, in the most enticing forms.
Their particular shapes are,
A king with a sceptre, riding on a camel.
A naked female.
A she goat.
A camel.
A dove.
A white or green garment.
Flowers.
The herb savine.
They bear rule over Friday, which is the day of Venus ; they are
accompanied by a furious west wind, mingled with gentle zephyrs
and invisible music, delightful to hear. Their nature is to give
silver, to incline men and women to luxury, to cause marriages, to
procure love, to take away infirmities, and to aid all things of a gen-
tle and pacific nature. They are easily invocated, and, according
to the ancient Theurgists, may be constrained to visible appearance,
in less space of time than other spirits.
CIRCLE III.—SECT. X.
JWtt&oU of &ate(ng antf Strtocattttg Spirits-
The various manuscripts relative to the fact of spiritual inter-
course which we have consulted for the purpose of introducing the
chief formula used upon this occasion all agree in declaring, that
those who would invocate spirits must, for some days previously, pre-
pare themselves to these high and mysterious ceremonies by living,
in a manner, secluded from the rest of the world, being religiously
p
210 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
disposed, and for three days at least must live free from sensual gra-
tifications.
The place* chosen must be secluded, solitary, and isolated from
the resort of men, where no business is carried on, where no unhal-
lowed eye must enter, and where the pryings of curiosity remain
ungratified. For this reason, dilapidated buildings, free from the
tread of human footsteps ;f or in the midst of forests, lonely caves,
or rocks by the sea-shore ; or amidst the ruins of ancient buildings,
where the owl and the night raven alone are tenants, and where the
general appearances indicate desolation and darkness : these are the
most proper places that can be chosen for the provoking of spirits to
appear ; it being remembered that all and every order of these un-
earthly agents are averse to visible appearance, and, when they do
appear, make use of the most terrific forms to arTrighten the student,
and swerve him from his purpose : all which, as well as the loudest
thunders and most furious lightnings, the Invocator must accustom
himself to see and hear without the least appearance of agitation ;
for, should his fears alarm and overpower him, the evil spirits would
suddenly obtain the mastery, and, if they succeeded in getting him
out of the sacred limits of the magic circle, his chief fortress and
safeguard, his instant destruction would be sure to follow ; instances
of which are not wanting on record : so that the magic operator must
be a man of firm and undaunted courage, of quick foresight, and ac-
customed to hideous objects. He must also have two associates
with him, who must be well acquainted with the magic rites, and
particularly in dismissing the spirits ; for, it must also be known, that
it is far more easy to raise than to dismiss or lay a spirit, through
the unaccountable antipathy which these invisible agents have to-
wards the human race : and when once the settled laws of nature
* Some Theurgists affirm that the place used for invocation must be either on
a ground-floor or in some place where no rooms that are inhabited may be on the
same level ; and thus a forest or retired grotto bas~been frequently used.
f The late learned Mr. R. Cosway, R. A. hired a room, which he kept always
consecrated for the purpose of raising spirits. On the floor he had the magic
circle drawn, and it was never entered by any idle or curious intruder. This we
have been assured by a gentleman, who was an intimate friend of Mr. Cosway,
was actually the case.
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C 211
are broken through by invoking these supernatural beings, the Invo-
cator is certainly in some considerable danger, having subjected
himself to other powers, who will not be backward in using every
advantage they may casually obtain.
The place being chosen, secure and free from interruption, the In-
vocator or Theurgist must choose the proper day and hour for working,
according to the nature, order, and office of the spirit he would invo-
cate, not forgetting that in the increase of the moon he must raise
good, and in the decrease of the moon, evil spirits. He must also be
provided with the seals of the earth, the seals of the spirit, and the
sacred lamen or pentacle, the magic sword, vestment, and other in-
struments for the performance of his purpose, the whole of which
must be made and completed in the hour of 0|9ereurp.
The day and hour being chosen, the Theurgist must also provide
himself with the proper perfume agreeable to the spirit, and must
exorcise or consecrate the place he would invocate in, after the ac-
customed manner (which, however, we shall not here describe, as it
would be dangerous so to do, and would put too much power in the
hands of evil-minded men, on account of the simple and facile means,
yet wonderful power, which these consecrations contribute, when
rightly performed). He must then proceed to draw his circle, nine
feet in diameter; within the outer circle, two concentric circles of
a hand's breadth must be made, and the four quarters of the world
marked therein by a correct compass. In the midst, for divine pro-
tection, must be described the great and powerful names of God,
3fei>ot)a!), ^Tetragrammaton, 8Uonai, S'atiai, and appropriate inscrip-
tions ; taking care that the circles* be correctly formed, and duly
joined and fortified with sacred crosses, within and without; the
chalk or coal being first properly consecrated. The lights used upon
the occasion must be of wax, and each candlestick inclosed in a
magic pentacle. The sword must be of pure steel, made expressly
for the occasion ; and, indeed, none of the instruments used must be
ever devoted to any other purpose. All things being ready, he must,
with his associates, enter the circle in the proper planetary hour, and,
* Some Then rgists describe the circle on virgin parchment, and secure it to the
floor with virgiii wax.
p2
212 THK ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
having entered, must with the sword proceed to consecrate and close
the circle in the accustomed manner, after which he must proceed as
he thinks fit to adjure, constrain, and force the spirits to visible ap-
pearance ;
* in doing which he must, as said before, be undaunted,
firm, and confident, not despairing or impatient, but determined to
bring his will and purpose to the desired effect.
CIRCLE III.—SECT. XI.
TO RAISE AN EVIL OR FAMILIAR SPIRIT.
Now, if the Theurgist would call an evil spirit to the circle, he must
first consider and know its nature, and to which of the planets it
agrees ; and what offices are distributed unto it from the planet.
This being known, let there be sought out a place fit and convenient
and proper for the invocation, according to the nature of the planet,
and the quality of the offices of the same spirit, as near as it can be
done ; as if their power be over the sea, rivers, or floods, then let the
place be the sea-shore, and so of the rest. Then choose a conveni-
ent time, both for the quality of the air (being serene, quiet, clear,
and fitting for the spirits to assume bodies), as also of the quality
and nature of the planet and the spirit, as on his day and time in
which he rules ; for he may be fortunate or unfortunate, sometimes
in the day, and sometimes in the night, as the stars and spirits do
require.
These things being judiciously considered, let the circle be made
at the place elected, and in the circle write the proper names and
characters, fortifying the same by proper pentacles and divine in-
scriptions ; then let the Theurgist consecrate the circle and everything
he uses, which being done in a firm and solemn manner, he must
proceed with his incantations, turning to each of the four quarters,
reiterating the same. Then let him look around, to see if any spirit
does appear, which if he delays, then let him repeat his invocation,
as above said, three times ; and if the spirit is obstinate and will not
* Vide Magus, p. 96, Ceremonial Magic, and Agrippa^s Occult Philo. lib.
4 j also, Pope Honorius on Magical Rites, and Solomon's Key to Magic.
s
MAGIG CEREMONIES, &C. 213
appear, then let the Theurgist begin to adjure it with divine power,
but so that all his adjurations do agree with the nature and office of
the spirit ; and thus he shall effect his purpose. When the spirit
appears, let the Theurgist turn himself towards it, courteously re-
ceiving it, and demanding answers to his questions; but if the
spirit shall be obstinate, ambiguous, lying, or else refractory, let the
Theurgist bind it by repeated conjurations, and, if you doubt any
thing, make, without the circle, with the consecrated sword, the figure
of a triangle or pentagon, and compel the spirit to enter into it : then,
having obtained of the spirit that which you desire, license* it to
depart, with courteous words, giving it command that it do no
hurt ; and, if it will not depart, compel it by powerful conjura-
tions ; and, if need require, expel it by exorcisms and suffumiga-
tions. And, when it is departed, go not immediately out of the
circle, but make a stay, and use some prayer, giving thanks to <85otJ
and the good angels, praying also for your future defence and pre-
servation, after which being done, you may depart.
ON THE MOTION OF THE FIXED STARS,
BY MANILIUS THE ASTROLOGER.
All these still keep one course, and all pursue
Their constant track, nor vary in a new
:
From one fixed point they start, their course maintain,
Repeat their whirl, and visit it again :
And this is strange, and this doth more surprise
That such unwieldy frames their signs should draw,
As moved by reason, and confined by law ;
No change in distance nor in site appear,
Though great in number, long the rolling year !
* They who neglect licensing the spirits to depart are in very great danger,
because instances have been known of the operator experiencing sudden death.
214
ILLUSTRATION, No. XVTIi.
THE CIRCLE FOR RAISING THE SPIRIT EG1N.*
CIKCLE III.—SECT- XII.
METHOD OF RAISING THE MIGHTY AND POWERFUL SPIRIT
Icgtn, lUttig of tfje i3cui?)*
EXTRACTED FROM AN ANCIENT MS.
" THEThetirgist must call this spirit in a fair chamber or quadrant,
twenty or twenty-four feet at the most in breadth, in every part a
window, a cubit wide, or a little more, east, west, north, and south.
The floor of the chamber must be paved, bordered, or plastered, very
plain and close, so that he may make his circle thereon with chalk
or coal, that it may be perfectly seen. This house or chamber must
* It is to be remembered that the surrounding scenery has> nothing to do with
the circle, but ib merely an embellishment.
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 215
be in a void place, and not near the intercourse of men ; for the
opinion of some expert men in this art is, that spirits are more wil-
ling to appear in some waste place, as in woods, heaths, fens, moors,
downs, or in any place where there is no resort, nor where any of
the sacraments have been administered ; for otherwise thy purpote
will not be effected. Therefore be warned.
" The weather must also be observed, for all weathers are not
good for thy work ; wherefore, when thou wilt begin thy work, see
that the air is clear, and, if it be in the day, see that the sun shine
;
and, if it be in the night, let the moon be unobscured, or the sky
full of stars ; but take heed of foul or close weather, for in those the
spirit will not be visible ; and why ? because it cannot receive bo-
dily form or shape from the elements ; wherefore select fine weather,
for the spirit much delighteth therein.
" The spirit must also be invocated on even days of the moon,
and in his proper hour, although some Theurgists say they have be-
gan in the new moon, and it hath been thirty days' labour before they
could effect their entire purpose ; therefore, let not this work seem
tedious, nor think for one day being- spent fruitlessly that thou wilt
not effect thy purpose, seeing that expert clerks have spent several
days before they could obtain an appearance." This being per-
formed, thy circle must be of the above form*
Cfie Jfrtcantationg.*
1. TO BIND THE GROUND, WHEREBY NEITHER MORTAL NOR
SPIRITUAL BEINGS CAN HAVE POWER TO APPROACH WITHIN A
LIMITED DISTANCE.
" Having made your necessary suffumigations and mystic pre-
parations, describe a circle of a hundred feet or more in diameter, or
as much more or less as you may think fit ; and, if you wish to keep
all living creatures from within a quarter of a mile or more of your
* The MS. from which this is taken is valued at five hundred guineas, and was
formerly in the possession of R. Cosway, Esq. R. A. but is now in the possession
of the Mercurii,
216 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
experiment, make, at the four parts of the same, east, west, north,
and south, proper crosses, and devoutly pronounce thrice the follow-
ing incantation : —
*
M In the name of the jfatljer, and of the &0lt, and of the J&olg &ffO0t,
Amen, I bind all mortal and immortal, celestial and terrestrial, visible
and invisible beings, except those spirits whom I have occasion to call,
to avoid and quit this space of ground, which I now mark, and wherein
I now stand, and that with all possible speed and despatch, I bind
you to avoid and no longer to tarry, by the unspeakable power of Al-
mighty <8>otJ, by the most high and mighty name of -E ^Fetraetammaton +
by the all-powerful names + 8cla -f featiag + 31wu + Spesfiiafl -f-
2Ip|)a -f- and HUmeca -f- • By all these most high and powerful names,
I charge, adjure, bind, and constrain both mortal and immortal, ter-
restrial, celestial, visible, and invisible beings to avoid, quit, and depart
this ground, and do request that none of you, except those I have oc-
casion to call at this time, be suffered to come within these sacred li-
mits. These things I request in the name of the JFatfcer, of the S>on,
and of the $oi£ <£|)O0t, Amen,
" Then dig a certain depth at the four parts of the compass, and
bury the seal of the earth in each part, and no power, either visible
or invisible, shall have power to come near thee, or to interrupt thy
proceedings."
* These curious proceedings are copied literally from the MS before spoken of,
and the Editor has thought proper to give the same orthography to the Latin and
Hebrew words as in the original, and, notwithstanding some part may be found
rather defective when compared with these languages as they are now used, yet
the high antiquity of the MS. will be a sufficient excuse for the difference in point
ttfieiegance, should there be any.
217
ILLUSTRATION, No. XIX.
FORM IN WHICH THE SPIRIT USUALLY APFEARS.
INCANTATIONS FOR INVOKING THE SPIRIT TO VISIBLE
APPEARANCE.
Iconjure thee, <B$in, Rex Borealis, and also charge thee that thou ap-
pear here before me, and before this circle, by the sufferance of Al-
mighty God, and by the virtue of his passion and other sentences
which here shall be rehearsed, to bind and constrain thee.
I conjure thee, dHfiin, by the jFatfjer, the g>ott, and the $0lp ®t)08t, and
by the heavens, the air, the earth, and the sea, and by all that therein
is contained, that thou come shortly, and appear to me and my fel-
lows, not terrible nor fearful, but in mild and peaceableform, without
hurt or envy to any of us.
I conjure thee, Q3Qi\i, by all the holy words that <2>0tJ spake in the
creation of the world, and by all creatures visible and invisible, and
218 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
by the four elements, and by the virtue of heaven, and by all the
holy words that <&otJ spake unto Moses, and to all other prophets, and
by the incarnation, passion, death, and resurrection, of the mild and
ineffable Saviour of all mankind.
I conjure thee, Cfflin, by the general resurrection, and by the dreadful
day of judgment; J conjure thee, <2?eia, by the coming of the Ujolr
<2>fcnj3t ; I conjure thee, also, by the virtue of all the spirits of the just,
and by the most holy patriarchs, apostles, evangelists, and by the most
holy saints of all ages.
I conjure thee, GEgin, by the mercy, grace, and power of God ; I con-
jure thee, thou spirit (ZTflitt, under the pain of condemnation, and thy
fearful doom at the great day of judgment ; I conjure thee, (f gin, by
the great curse of God ; I conjure thee, Cfiin, by all the high names
of God ; I conjure thee by the high power and strength of our Lord
Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the heavenly King of glory ; and 1 con-
jure thee by the whole of these, in what place of the world soever thou
art, to appear instantly before me in the likeness of a child of three
years old ; and that, without fear, hurt, or envy, thou fulfil my request.
&epltcatorj) Incantations
If, at the third rehearsal of the above mystic ceremonial, the spirit
refuses to appear, prepare a fume of sweet-smelling savours, such as
frankincense, aloes, cinnamon, oil olives, nutmegs, musk, cassia,
roses, saffron, and white wax; which must be burnt, commixed
together, on afire consecrated for the purpose ; and, while the fume is
forming, and the fire fiercely burning, repeat what follows :
—
I conjure thee, <&Qin, and command thee instantly to appear before
mc, by the virtue of the sentences and words hereafter written, upon
pain of the most awful and bitter maledictions of Almighty God.
I conjure thee, O thou spirit (ZEfiin, that thou arise and appear to us,
by the might, majesty, and power of the first word that our Lord
spake, in the creation of the world,, when he made the light to shine,
and said, " Lux et facta, est lux."
I conjure thee, by the second word that he spake when he made
the firmament, and said, " Fiatfir mamentum in medico aquas, et deinde
aquas ab aquis."
MAGIC OKUKMONIKS, &C. 219
I conjure then, by the THIRD word, when he (jalkered all the waters
that were under huaven into one place, saying, M Congrcgcntur aqne
que sub ccelo sunt et apparia mida"
I conjure thee, by the FOURTH word, which he spake when he made
to spring forth trees and herbs, •' Germinat terram herba verclifa-
cientur semen cum scmendi teipso sit super terram.
I conjure thee, by virtue of the FIFTH word, when he made the
0, ]) , and * * *, saying, " Fiat luminaria magna in firmamento cceli
ut illuminare terram"
I conjure thee, by the sixth word, which he spake when he made
birds, fishes, Sfc. " Producat aque reptile a^re virentcs ct voluntate
super terram sub firmamento ecelo,"
I conjure thee, by the virtue of the seventh word, which he spake
when he blessed them, saying, " Crescite et multiplicamini et reptili
aquas maris oves multiplicantur super terram."
I conjure thee, by the eighth word, which he spake when he made
beasts, worms, and serpents, " Ducat terram aliam in genera suo
imm,enta et reptilia secundum specias scias."
I conjure thee, by virtue of the ninth word, when he made man
in his own image, saying, " Faciamus home ad imagine ct similitudine
nostra et per sit pis^ibus et volatibus que cceli et bestias terre et universe
creature qui reptile que monenturin terrd."
I conjure thee, thou spirit ©Gin, instantly to appear, by virtue
of the tenth word, which he spake when he placed Adam and Eve
in Paradise, saying, ' Crescite et multiplicamini et replete terra sub-
jugate earn et Semite vivi pissibus maris, et volatibus cceli et bestias
terre, et universus animalibus que quern monentus super terra." Et per
hac verba, conjuro te, spiritus ©gin."
Lastly, I conjure, charge, bind, and command thee, thou mighty
and invincible spirit ©gin, by these most high, powerful, and ineffable
names of the most highest h testis -+- jFott0 + ©abator + 3Ebri0tU0
•f €>abaoti> + atJonag + ©raton + ^eesias + Victor + HDaanna -+•
jftajarenwj + 2H;ea0 -f (Emmanuel -f &ni$tnitu8 + IPrimogemtue -h
2Ipi)3 -|- et Sftmeua -f Q^d by the great, supreme, and all-powerful name
T\~\r]b, which all creatures obey, at which the elements are moved, and
the devils fear and tremble. By all these tremendous and awful names,
1 charge thee, finally, to appear before me. Fiat, fiat, fiat. Amen.
220 THE ASTUOLuGEIl OF THE Xi.NETEE^TH CENTURY.
These things being rightly performed, with a rushing sound, ** as
of many waters," and a tremendous noise, will the spirit appear, and
by powerful invocations thou shalt obtain what thou wishest. But
let thy proceedings herein be secret, and beware of vain curiosity; for
these mysteries are sacred.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XX.
FORM IN WHICH THE SPIRIT OBERION APPEARS.
CIRCLE III.—SECT. XIII.
TO INVOKE OR RAISE THE SPIRIT (fDtmOlt. *
This 'mighty spirit is chiefly under the dominion of the sun and
moon, rle appears in great pomp and terror, generally in the form
* From an ancient M>. in the possession ol
l<
Rafhfiel."
MAGIC CERF.MOXIKS, &C. 221
of a scaly monster, the face of a woman, and a royal crown upon his
head, attended by innumerable and countless legions.
The Theurgist who would raise or invocate this powerful spirit
must, in the first place, draw out his seal and character, and the dif-
ferent offices subservient to him, in the first Monday after the full
moon, and in the hour of the fl^oort, fl$ar0, ^Pcrcurp, or Saturn: and
when these are made, he must repeat the following ceremonial
words :
—
O ye angels of the 0un and moon, I now conjure and pray you, and
exorcise you, that by the virtue and power of the most high God, SUpfrS
and H&mecja, and by the name that is marvellous + (fcl + , and by him
that made and formed you, and by these signs that be here, so drawn
forth in these resemblances, and now in the might and virtue of your
Creator, and in the name of him the most shining (ftoTl, and by the
virtue of the fi^olp <2>£i)0t, that now, or whensoever that I shall call on
fl&berion, whose image is here pictured, made, or fashioned, and his
name that is here written, and his signs here all dravm and graven,
written, or made, that fl&berion be compelled now to obey me, and
here to appear openly before me, and fulfil my request.
The next day, write or make the name of his first counsellor,
Caberpon, and that on the right side of Oberion's character, saying,
T exorcise thee, <ZTabergon, by the power of God, and by the virtue of
all heavenly kings, earthly kings, and infernal kings, and by king
Solomon, who bound thee, and made thee subject unto him, and by all
his signs and seals, and by the four elements, by which the world is
sustained and nourished, and by the serpent that was exalted in tlie wil-
derness,—that thou, <2Tabergon now help to give true council to thy Lord
3DBerion, that he do show himself instantly unto vie, and fulfil my
request.
This must be said three times each day, and three times each night,
over the writings.
The third day, in the third hour, write and make the name of his
other counsellor GTetoegron, with his signs and characters, and do and
say as before rehearsed.
This done, surTumigate your seals and writings with a surTumigation
222 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CKN'TURY.
of saffron, aloes, mastic, olibanum, and orpient ; and note that the
fire used for this purpose must be of elder-wood or thorns.
Then choose a secret and retired place, where no human footsteps
may interrupt thee, and make thy circle of the following form.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXI.
THE CIRCLE FOR RAISING 0htViOXV
INCANTATIONS.
The circle being made, and consecrated according to the rules of
ceremonial magic, enter therein, in the hour of Mercury, and begin
thy invocations in this manner, on bended knees, and with great
devotion.
I conjure, iavocate, and call thee, 2Dbett0lt, by the Father, the Son,
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 223
and the Holy Ghost, and by Him who said, and it was done ; who
commanded, and it stood fast ; who willed, and it was created ; and
by his Son Jesus Christ, in whose name, all heavenly, earthly, and
infernal creatures do bend and obey ; and by the unutterable name of
ineffable majesty -f tJTetracrammatort + thou spirit Oberion, 1 com-
mand thee, withersoever thou now art, whether in sea, fire, air, or flood,
whether in the air above or in the region beneath, to appear instantly
unto me, and my fellows, without hurting me or them, or any other
living creature which God has made. This I thrice command thee, in
the name of the ineffable Adonai. Amen.
If, at the third repetition of this invocation, the spirit gives no visi-
ble token of his appearance (for generally, previously to the actual
appearance of the spirit, there are heard tremendous noises and fright-
ful hissings, tumultuous yellings, and fearful shrieks) ; then begin
to rehearse the following great bond or incantation, and if the spirit
were bound in chains of darkness, in the lowest pit of the infernal
regions, he must appear, when this great sentence is rehearsed."
CIRCLE III.—SECT. XIV,
THE GREAT AND POWERFUL INCANTATION,*
For compelling Spirits to visible Appearance.
O thou rebellious andfearful spirit, prince amongst the fallen angels,
SDbetiOll, I conjure and bind thee to visible appearance by the following
most high, most terrible, and mighty invocation : —
Hear, O ye heavens, and I will speak, saith the Lord, and let the
sea, the earth—yea, hell, and all that is within them contained, mark
the words of my mouth : Did not I, saith the Lord, fashion you, and
make you ? Did not I, as an eagle, who stirreth her nest, fluttercth
over her young ones with her wings, and carrieth them on her shoulders ?
* This great call or invocation is said to be equally powerful in raising- any other
spirit.
224 THE ASTROLOfJEll OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Ibcive I not so nourished yon, that you were, fat, and loa.den.witk plenty?
Why have you, then, so spurned with your heels against me, your
Maker ? Why have you. seemed to coequal yourselves with me? What
thereby have you reaped f Have you not purchased, instead of that
heavenly felicity, hellish perplexity? How have you that fire kindled
which doth and shall for ever, at my pleasure, burn you in the bottom-
less pit of perdition ? Why are you so unfaithful and disobedient
to my most holy names and words ? Know you not that I am God
alone, and that there is none but me ? Am not I the only rrfn\ Is
it not in my power to kill and make alive—to wound and to heal—to
oppress and to deliver ? If I whet the edge of my sword, and my
hand take hold of it, to do justice against them who disobey my holy
name, who are able to abide the same ? To have their sword, eat their
flesh, and my sharp arrows of hell fire to be drunk in their blood f
Which of you that are disobedient to my name fsaith the Lord) is
able to witJistand mine anger? Am not 1 Lord of Lords, and om-
nipotent, and none but I? Who can command the heavens to smoke,
the earth to fear, the waters to flow, and hell to tremble ? Are not the
corners of them all in my hands ? thou obstinate and stubborn
spirit, why hast thou dealt so froward with me fsaith the LordJ, to
urge me to command my faithful servant Michael, my valiant cham-
pion, to expel and. put thee out of the place where thou wast filled
with wisdom and understanding, continually beholding my wondrous
works ? Didst not thou see my glory with thine eyes, and did not thy
ears hear the majesty of my voice ? Why art thou gone out of the
way ? Why art thou become an open sepulchre ? With thy tongue
dost thou deceive my servants, for poison is under thy lips, thy mouth
is full of cursing and bitterness, and thy feet are swift to shed innocent
blood. Is this the obedience thou owest unto me, and the service thou
offerest? Verily, for this thy obstinacy, disobedience, pride, and rebel-
lion, thou shalt be bound, and most cruelly tormented with intolerable
pains and endless and eternal perdition.
Then, if the spirit be still rebellious or refractory, make a fire of
brimstone and stinking substances, thorns, and briars, &c. Then
write the name of the spirit in virgin parchment, and burn it thrice,
repeating the following adjuration :
—
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 225
J conjure thee, creature of God, FIRE, by him who commanded
and all things were done, and by the LIVING God, and by the true
God, and by the holy God, and by him who made thee and all
elements by his word, by him who appeared to Moses in a fiery
bush, and by him who led the children of Israel in a fiery pillar,
through the wilderness, and by him who shall come to judge the world
byfire and brimstone, that thou perform my will upon this refractory
and disobedient spirit; till he come unto me, and show himself obedient
in all things as I shall command him. O heavenly God, father and
author of all virtues, and the invisible king of glory, most strong and
mighty captain of the strong and triumphant arm of angels, God of
gods, Lord of hosts, which holdest on thy hands the corners of the
earth, which with the breath of thy mouth makest all things to shake
and tremble, which makest thy angels lightnings, and thy spirits flames
offire, vouchsafe, I beseech thee, O Lord, to send thy holy angels
into this place of fire, to torment, vex, and persecute this disobedient
spirit, Oberion, and overcome him, as Michael the archangel overcame
Lucifer, the prince of darkness, till he come to me, and fulfil all my
will and desire. Fiat, fiat, fiat. Amen.
O thou most puissant prince Radamanthus, which dost punish in thy
prison of perpetual perplexity, the disobedient spirits, and also the
grisly ghosts of men dying in dreadful despair, I conjure, bind, and
charge thee, by Lucifer, Beelzebub, Satan, Tamanill, and by their
power, and by the homage thou owest unto them; and also I charge
thee, by the triple crown of Cerberus, by Styx, and Phlegethon, by the
spirit Barantos, and his ministers, that you torment and punish this dis-
obedient spirit Oberion, until you make him come corporeally to my
sight, and obey my will aiid commandment in whatsoever 1 shall charge
or command him to do. Fiat, fiat, fiat. Amen.
These things being rightly performed, the spirit will be constrained
to visible appearance : but, after the above incantation, he will come
in a very horrible and ghastly form, and attended by terrible con-
vulsions of the elements, raging furiously, and assuming every
terrific appearance that is possible, to frighten the lnvocator. And
for which purpose, roaring lions, hissing serpents, and furious beasts,
with all the mighty horrors of the infernal regions, and every other
Q
226 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
possible attempt, will be made to cause terror and alarm. At this
juncture, if the magic circle be not well made and fortified, the Invo-
cator will be in the utmost peril, and if he escape with his life may
deem himself fortunate ; but, if the circle be properly made, there is
no fear from the assaults of this rebellious and wicked one, who must
become obedient when thus exorcised.
After the spirit has appeared, and performed thy will and request,
it is to be well observed, that the utmost caution must be used in
quitting the limits of the magic circle. For this end, the Theurgist
must devoutly rehearse the following license.
CIRCLE IIL—SECT. XV
A LICENSE FOR TO DISCHARGE SPIRITS.
I conjure thee [Oberion) by the visible and holy temple of Solomon,
which he did prepare to the most holy God, by all the elements, and by
that most holy name thut was graven on Soloynori's sceptre, that, for this
time, thou do depart quickly, quietly, and peaceably, without light-
nings, thunder, ram, wind, storm, or tempest, or any noise or terror
whatsoever ; and, whensoever I shall call thee, I charge thee that thou
do come to me and my fellows, without delay or tract of time, not mo-
lesting me or any other creature that God hath made to his glory and
praise, and the use of man, or without disordering any thing, putting
up or casting down any thing, or doing hurt any other way whatsoever,
either in thy coming or going, not hurting, troubling, or molesting me,
or any other creature, neither by thyself, nor any other spirit or spirits
for thee, or at thy procurement, at any time or times, now or hereafter;
by the virtue of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father, and the Holy Ghost,
go thy way in peace to the place which God hath appointed for thee,
and peace be between thee and me. In nomine patris -f- etfilii, + e*
spiritus sancti + Amen.
The Theurgist must repeat this license three times, and afterwards
repeating the Lord's Prayer, must leave the circle, walking backwards.
He must then destroy all traces of the circle, and remove all instru-
MAGIC CEREMOXIES, &C. 227
ments used for the purpose, keeping the whole as secret as possible ;
and must also return home by a different path to that by which he
came. So shall no spirit have power to harm him, but let him upon
no account neglect any of the foregoing rules, for they are essential
to his safety.
Such were the mystic rights, ceremonies, and incantations, used
by the ancient Theurgists to burst asunder the bonds of natural or-
der, and to obtain an awful intercourse with the world of spirits, —
a
study, to the wild sublimity of which modern times afford no pa-
rallel,—a study which at once evinces the bold and lofty daring of
our courageous ancestors, who, not content with vanquishing earthly
foes and quenching mortal feuds, strove to tear asunder the restric-
tive bonds of this elementary world, to combat with the dread inha-
bitants of the spiritual regions, and to subject to their service the in-
vincible powers of light and darkness—mighty spirits, who, accord-
ing to their account, came attended with such tremendous powers,
and such awful attributes, that the mere mention of their appear-
ances is enough to cause two-thirds of the present sceptical genera-
don to shrink back and tremble.
CIRCLE III.—SECT. XVI.
THE METHOD OF INVOCATING THE DEAD,
OR
Batetng tfje Spirit of a PeparteU Veraon.
Having previously shown and elucidated the rites and ceremonies
made use of by magicians for invocating both celestial, terrestrial,
and familiar spirits, we will now treat of the necromantic art which
teaches the method of holding an intercourse with the spirits of de-
parted persons.
To the honour of the present century, we have had but few instances
of persons openly and publicly entering into a compact with spirits,
or of professing to resolve questions in futurity by means of their
agency ; neither have we but one authenticated instance of necro-
Q2
228 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
mancy ; but, in former times, these practices were no uncommon
thing, and those who had an opportunity of blending classical learn-
ing and scientific speculation with it, were esteemed the most elevated
characters of their day, and were frequently honoured with the pro-
tection and confidence of princes and nobles.*
The cause of the paucity of these attempts, and also of the appear-
ances of evil spirits, in our days, is because " the fulness of time"
and the brightness of Christianity has been gradually dispelling the
mists of heresy and idolatry, even as the sun doth the fogs, which vanish
on his appearance ; not by any violence or compulsion, but from a
cause implanted in the nature of things and their opposites. Even
so the kingdom of lights as it overspreads the soul in power and domi-
nion^ closes up the centre of darkness, and scatters the influence of
the devil before it, who becomes, as it were, entirely passive as to the
works and will of man.
In a former part of this circle, we have given a concise illustration
of the nature and offices of spirits, both good and evil, which will
serve as matter of much curious inquiry to the inquisitive reader,
and which, indeed, is the substance of those numerous stupendous
tomes which mystified the world in the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries, but which are now only to be found in the libraries or
cabinets of the curious. Yet, notwithstanding we have been as copious
as possible, this subject is so intricate and diversified in itself, that to
attempt an ample demonstration of the matter would require deeper
speculation than the subject deserves, or than we are masters of, par-
ticularly as the inhabitants of these spiritual kingdoms are never in
one regular stay, continuance; or property, but, from one hour to
another, are continually floating and changing. Like the swiftness of
the winds, or the gliding along of running waters, which pass away
as a thought, and are no more remembered ; so, also, it is with the
devils and infernal spirits, in that lachrymable state of darkness, where
their existence is a continual anguish and torment, shifting from the
pangs of one sorrow to the bitterness of another, to all eternity !
The most remarkable instance of necromancy in former times is
that related by Weaver, in his " Funeral Monuments."
* It is not accounted sinful to invoke spirits, unless a coinpaet be formed with
them. Vide p. 1 12, the ghost of Marshal Saxe raised by Schrepfer.
&uxmnxmr*
.
Cd#'t/fr£ '^At'//f/ of' c , l(<?<//(-MH , /(ffJff/'/ f/h' ^ .///<'JV <?f
'
>/
Oc - da/t, Zif //<•<?.> /<'> .
LONDON'.
Published ljvWTIliam OaxltoivVBri^it 05,Patcritf>ster Row.
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 229
He there records that Edward Kelly, a magician, with one Paul
Waring (who acted in the capacity of companion and associate in all
his conjurations), went together to the church-yard of Walton-le-dale,
in the county of Lancaster, where they had information of a person
being recently interred, who was supposed to have hidden or buried
a considerable sum of money, and to have died without disclosing to
any person where it was deposited. He proceeds to state, that they
entered the church-yard exactly at twelve o'clock at night; and, hav-
ing had the grave pointed out to them the preceding day, they exor-
cised the spirit of the deceased, by magical spells and incantations, till
it appeared before them ; and not only satisfied, their wicked desires
and inquiries, but delivered several strange predictions concerning
persons in that neighbourhood, which were literally and exactly
fulfilled.
PROCEEDINGS IN THE
iflecromanttc art.
The process in this respect differs materially from the theurgic art
before explained; for, in the first place, the person being fixed on
whose apparition is to be invoked, or brought up, the magician, with
his assistant, must repair to the church-yard or tomb where the
deceased was buried, exactly at midnight, as the ceremony can only
be performed in the night, between the hours of twelve and one.
The grave is first to be opened, or an aperture made, by which
access may be had to the naked body. The magician having described
the circle, and holding an hazel wand in his hand, of one year's
growth, while his companion or assistant beareth a consecrated
torch, he turns himself to all the four winds, and, touching the dead
body three times with his wand, repeats as follows :
—
Wbt Necromantic Spell or Incantation*
By the virtue ofthe holy resurrection, and the torments of the damned,
I conjure and exorcise thee, spirit of (N.) deceased, whose body here
lies, to answer my liege dejnands, being obedient unto these mystic and
sacred ceremonies, on pain of everlasting torment and distress.
230 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Then let him say, <e
Berald, Beroald, Balbin gal gabor aguba;"
Arise, arise, I charge and command thee.
After which forms and ceremonies the ghost or apparition will
become visible, and will answer to any questions put to it by the
exorcist.
But, if it be desired to put any interrogatories to the spirit of any
corpse that hath hanged, drowned, or otherwise made away with
itself, the incantation must be performed while the body hangs, or on
the spot where it is first found after the suicide hath been committed,
and before it is touched or removed by the coroner's jury.
CIRCLE III.—SECT. XVII.
CEREMONY FOR RAISING THE SPIRIT OF ONE WHO
HATH COMMITTED SUICIDE.
In this case, the exorcist, being prepared with the pentacles of
Solomon, the two seals of the earth, and other necessaries, he must
bind upon the top of his wand, a bundle of St. John's wort [milies
'perforatum), with the head of an owl; and, having repaired to the
spot where the corpse of the self-murderer lies, at the solemn hour
of midnight, precisely at twelve o'clock, he must draw the circle,
and, having entered it, solemnly repeat the following words :
—
THE INCANTATIONS.
By the mysteries of the deep, by the flames of Banal, by the power of
the east, and the silence of the night, by the holy rites o/({?ecate, I con-
jure and exorcise thee, thou distressed spirit, to present thyself here, and
reveal unto me the cause of thy calamity, why thou didst offer violence
to thy own liege life, where thou art noio in being, and where thou wilt
hereafter be.
He then, gently smiting the carcass nine times with the wand, says
as follows :
—
I conjure thee, thou spirit of (N.) deceased, to answer my demands
that I am to propound unto thee, as thou ever hopestfor the rest of the
holy ones, and ease of all thy misery ; by the blood of -f 3ff#Ui8 -f
magic; ceremonies, &c. 231
which he shed for thy soul, I conjure and bind thee to utter unto me
what I shall ask thee.
Then, cutting down the carcass from the tree, they lay his head
toward the east ; and in the space that this following incantation is
repeating, they seta chafingdish of fire at his right hand, into which
they pour a little wine, some mastic, and gum aromatic, and, lastly,
a vialful of the sweetest oil, having also a pair of bellows, and some
unkindled charcoal, to make the fire burn bright at the instant of the
carcass's rising. The third incantation is thus :
—
I conjure thee, thou spirit of(N.) that thou do immediately enter into
thy ancient body again, and answer to my demands : by the virtue of
the holy resurrection, and by the posture of the body of the Saviour of
the world, I charge thee, I conjure, I command thee, on pain of the
torments and wandering of thrice seven years, which I, by the force of
sacred magic rites, have power to inflict upon thee, by thy sighs and
groans, I conjure thee to utter thy voice ; so help thee God, and the
prayers of the holy church. Amen.
Which ceremony being thrice repeated, while the fire is burning
with mastic and gum aromatic, the body will begin to rise, and at last
will stand upright before the exorcist, answering with a faint and hol-
low voice the questions propounded unto it : why it destroyed itself,
—where its dwelling is, —what its life is, —how long it will be ere it
enter into rest, —and by what means the exorcist may assist it to come
thereto: also of the treasures of this world,—where they are hid.
Moreover, it can answer very punctually of the places where ghosts
reside, and how to communicate with them ; teaching the nature of
astral spirits and infernal beings, so far as its capacity reacheth. All
which, when the ghost has fully answered, the exorcist ought, out of
commiseration and reverence to the deceased, to use what means
can possibly be used, for the procuring rest unto the spirit.
To which effect he must dig a grave, and, filling the same half full
of quick lime, with a little salt and common sulphur, he must put the
carcass naked into it ; which experiment, next to the burning the body
into ashes, is of great force to quiet and end the disturbance of the
astral spirit.
332
CIRCLE TIL—SECT. XVIII.
AN EXTRACT FROM THE TRANSLATION
i&u&*n
f
£ 2-atitt Jttanugcript,
Communicated by Philadelphus.
EXTRACT I.
'* If, then, love, in union with humility, is, in an inferior sense,
perfection in this world already, it must needs be that which is per-
fect in the highest fulness of perfection in the world to come : when
this mysterious and prophetical character (said to have been the seal
of David, that great warrior, and of Solomon, that prince of peace,
and that eminent lover of wisdom,—when this character, denoting
hieroglyphically the spiritual signature both of David and of Solomon ;
denoting the two eternal principles in union; denoting the creation of
the third principle ; denoting the six working properties of eternal na-
ture in their everlasting rest; denoting fire and water in an harmo-
nious union ; denoting the two tinctures restored into One, who is
all in all, or without whom there can be nothing ; denoting that
* A translation of the famous Latin MSS. by Sir P. Rubens, annexed to his
treatise on the Proportions of the Human Figure, Cabalistic Principles, &c. &c.
This valuable morceau of antiquity was sold at Hugier's famous sale at Paris, and
purchased by the late Richard Cosway, Esq. R. A.
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 233
all whatever was, or is, or shall be, is of, and through, and to, that
One ; denoting almost the whole instance of time and eternity, as the
same, in our age, is laid open by Jacob Behmen, that blessed instru-
ment in the hands of the Spirit of God; on which account, I may
justly call this seal or character prophetical :) when this character, I
say, spiritualized, and only with addition of a cross, which is not
expressed therein directly (and no wonder that it was not in those
days), shall be the broad seal, not only of the eternal King of kings,
but also of every one of his subjects ; and not only of that everlasting
kingdom of Light and Glory, but also of every individual inhabitant
thereof ; although not in all of the same size, but in some broader,
and in others narrower, yet, in all of them, from the highest to the
lowest, the very same, as to its spiritual shape and figure. Amen,
Hallelujah !"
EXTRACT II.
Being Part of an Explanation of three wonderful Tables, representing
the three States of Man, viz. his Perfect State, his Fallen State, and
his Restored State.
" Though Adam was really created in this world, even upon earth,
and introduced into Paradise, which was upon, or was greening or
budding forth through this earth, yet still his distance from, and his
height above it, was so great, that no spirit of reason—no, not in the
234 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
best mathematician, shall ever be able to measure it ; for that para-
disaical earth, of which his body was made, was so distant from, and
above, what we now call earth, as Paradise (which is still extant in
the same place where it was then, and is not destroyed by the deluge,
as reason fancies, but is only covered by the curse) is distant from,
and as high above, the beastlike body of an earthly man that
is to be turned into dust, though he may be buried upon the same
spot of ground which Paradise did formerly green upon. So, there-
fore, what is here meant, is not such a distance, nor such a height,
as may be measured by measuring lines, and may, nevertheless, be
justly so called ; but it is such a one as runs (in an inferior sphere)
parallel with that superior sense which we take in mind, when we
consider the three principles in a mutual relation. The first
principle is still in the second, and the second in the first; and
we may truly say, that heaven is in hell, and hell in heaven, seeing
they are both within ourselves ; and yet the second is at such a height
above the first, and the first at such a distance under the second, ?nd
such a great gulf is fixed betwen them, that none (as Abraham said
to Dives) can pass, neither from the one side nor the other. The
two eternal principles are both together in this temporal third princi-
ple (or outward world), and in everything therein ; and yet this third
is in the same distance under them, and they in the same height
above it in which time is under eternity, and eternity above time
;
and God himself, ' in whom we move and have our being,' is nearer
to us than we are to ourselves ; and is yet at such a distant height
above us, that only the true spirit of the suul can attain to a real per- ,
ception of Him ; and that the Scripture calls the earth his footstool,
and says that heaven, and the heaven of heavens, cannot contain
him. The place of man's nativity in the middle, between time and
eternity, wherein he was touched by this or that, is the only
thing, on account of which it was said in the beginning, that this (the
first) table did represent him in his primitive state of his integrity.
For all his graces, perfections, virtues, powers, and glories, he was
endowed and gifted with, and especially all those excellent particulars
related and declared by Jacob Behmen, concerning the manner of his
eating, drinking, seeing, never sleeping, &c. are all found necessarily
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 235
depending hereupon, and flowing freely forth from this his standing
in the middle, and being touched from that which was above, as well
as from that which was under him. So that, by naming only this
place of his nativity, all his perfections are named also implicitly,
and want not at all to be enumerated distinctly to the spirit of un-
derstanding, to whom it is plain and clear that Adam could not have
had them, if his station had been either higher or lower. For, if it
had been lower, and he had not been touched by the Spirit of eter-
nity, he must needs have been a creature belonging only to this third
temporal principle, and a subject of the astral spirit of this world,
though he might have been the noblest, and of the highest rank and
quality among all his subjects ; he could not have had such a domi-
nion, as really he had, over all the creatures of this third principle,
and over the astral spirit of this world : and, what is of the greatest
consideration, he could not have had the two tinctures united in one
in his own single person ; but must, of all necessity, have been made
male and female in two distinct and divided bodies, after the manner
of all those living creatures that are subjects to the astral spirit of
this world. And if his station had been higher, and he had not been
touched by time, he would entirely have been cut off, or quite ex-
cluded from this third principle, and could not have been an entire
image of God, after his own likeness. But here may be objected and
queried—Are not the holy angels entire images of God, notwith-
standing that they have nothing of this third principle in their created
being ?
—
Ans. The holy angels are entire images of God, as manifested
then when they were created, viz. before the creation of this third
principle, when God was manifested only in the two eternal principles
of fire and light ; but Adam was to be an entire image of God, as ma-
nifested in the three principles after thefall of Lucifer, not in eternity
only, but also in time, which entire image of God, after his own
likeness, he could not have been, if the third principle had not been
a third constituent part of his being. Upon this account it is that
Jacob Behmen rightly said, men shall, after the end of time in eter-
nity, even excel the angels, whom we know the Scripture calls
1
ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be
236 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
heirs of salvation.' The primitive state of integrity is commonly said,
by the spirit of natural reason (human wisdom), to have been the
state of Adam and Eve in Paradise ; but, as this spirit is a fool
in these matters, so he speaks both foolish and nonsensical things
thereof.
" Can that be primitive which was not first, but had something
antecedent to it, of which itself is but an appendix, or a necessary
consequence ? Can that be an integrum or a whole, which is divided
into two, and so divided that these two can never more be made that
whole or that one again, which they were before they were divided ?
These two here spoken of may indeed be joined and copulated toge-
ther from without, and upon that account (yet in quite another sense
wherein they were one before) they may be called one, as they are
called in Scripture one flesh. But what is this state and condition to
that wherein they were one in one only person ? This primitive state
of integrity was only then in being, when God (having made but one
Adam) saw every thing that he had made, and found it very good. But
when he said afterward, ' It is not good that man should be alone,'
his state of integrity, alas ! was faded away already, for he had
already transgressed his limits, he was departed from his eminent
station, he was sunk down into time, he had opened a door for the
astral spirit of this world to come in; he had hearkened to his sug-
gestions, he had stooped down with his will and affections to embrace
the love of this third principle ; and so he had already dealt treache-
rously against the wife of his youth, which had been his companion,
and the wife of his covenant within himself, and had longed for a
helpmate besides and without himself; he was infected with a desire
after the knowledge of good and evil, and had eaten already of the
forbidden tree of that knowledge, not indeed outwardly with his
mouth, yet magically with his lust and imagination ; and so he had
really begun and carried on that same transgression, which afterward
was consummated by that same helpmeet that was made in this trans-
gression of his ; and, therefore, first, it was now not good that he
should be alone ; the plain reason thereof could be given distinctly,
but it is enough to say only, that he himself had made not good what
magic cerp:moxies, &c. 237
God had made very good before. And therefore, secondly, like as
afterward, the end of this transgression consummated was death, so
the end of this foregoing preparation and disposition towards it was
a 'deep sleep,' justly to be called a forerunner of, or a brother-in-
law to, that death ; and therefore, also, thirdly, when the transgres-
sion was consummated by his helpmeet, he showed forth the inward
signature of his own mind, which he had in the beginning thereof, by
calling his wife * the mother of all living/ which certainly hath no
manner of sense in it, except only with a close respect to this transi-
tory world, wherein he had now settled himself according to his
newly-framed own contrivance, and wherein, according to the Apos-
tle's word, but contrary to his sense, he forgot the things behind him,
and minded only that which was before him ; for, if he had a sober
serious remembrance of his primitive station, or a mournful sense of
what he was departed from and was deprived of, he could not but
call his wife the mother of all dead. But this denomination he could
not reasonably have liked so well as that of the former, because,
first, he was now for begetting children, which all were to have of
him that life he now himself lived in, viz. in the region of stars and
elements, when his former true life, which he now was dead unto,
could not be propagated by him into any one of them. He must
needs, therefore, be more pleased with such a denomination as denoted
a life in this world, after his own likeness, and obvious to his senses,
than by such a one as implieth, only tacitly, a life lost, gone, and va-
nished away, so that he could have no more any true sensation
thereof, and expresseth downright and directly the very contrary of
every life. And because, also, third, he must needs have likened
better to please his wife, whom he loved, and to flatter her, than to
make such an affronting reflection upon her, as to lay all the blame
upon her alone, extenuating, at same time, if not quite denying, at
least implicitly, his own fault and guilt, seeing especially that he
could not be ignorant of the next immediate consequence thereof,
which needs must have been this, that his own conscience would
have risen and shown in his own face, and told him that he himself
had been the father of death before ever his wife had got a personal
existence. For this is true,—by one man (says the apostle, not by one
'238 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE XINETEEXTH CENTURY.
woman, but by one man, even Adam the first, not by Adam and
Eve, for, though this be true in a second posterior sense, yet it is not
so in this chief original sense) sin entered into the world, and death
by sin, which one man is always in the Scripture put in a diametri-
cal opposition over against that other one man, Jesus Christ, for
this very reason called the second Adam very frequently, but never
the second Adam and Eve. And so, likewise, when God called to
our first parents after the fall, he did not say in the plural number,
* Where are ye, Adam and Eve ;' but he called in the singular only,
6
Where art thou, Adam? Hast thou eaten,* &c. which -plainly
showeth, that God called to an account chiefly, and in the first place,
him whom he knew to have been the first author and original agent in
the transgression, before even the woman was taken out of him, which
never could have had a personal being in this world, if he, by his
own lust, imagination, and desire, had not himself spoiled, perverted,
and caused to be not good, what God had made very good in the be-
ginning.
" In the primitive state of integrity, all the senses, thoughts, ima-
ginations, and enjoyments of man, and all his magical operations in
the spirit of his soul, could not but have been thoroughly pure, holy,
and heavenly, because both the glass of his mind, and the eye of his
understanding, were so too ; and therefore, as this tree was, so must
its fruits and products have been also. Accordingly, then, he could
not have had any other sensations but such as could, and did, arise
in the spirit of the soul, from a union with, and full obedience to,
the spirit of God in his light and love, from an intuition and fruition
of his infinite goodness, from a profound contemplation and deep un-
derstanding of the wonders and riches of his wisdom shown forth in
the creation of this world, from an intimate acquaintance with the
holy virgin Sophia (designated by Solomon, wisdom), from the mu-
tual embraces of the two eternal tinctures of fire and light united in
his own single person, from a familiar conversation with holy angels,
from his own personal perfections, which he was endowed with as a
sovereign prince ruling over all things in this whole third principle,
&c. What those senses, sensations, and enjoyments were, in particu-
lar, no living soul can be found able to declare, because this primi-
MAGIC CKREMOXIES, &C. 239
tive state is lost, and was never attained again,—neither can it be
attainable by any during this mortal life ; and Adam himself could
not have declared it to his offspring, after his transgression and fall;
for of that single primitive image of God, in which he was in the
beginning, he himself knew nothing more after his ' sleep.*
" In the paradisaical or middle state thereof, all the former senses,
or heavenly sensations, had left, and were departed from him, or ra-
ther he had left, and was departed from them, and had removed
himself into a lower and more exterior station, wherein his senses were
still indeed pure, holy, and paradisaical, yet no more so, as they had
been before; for he, having now some other inferior objects before his
mind, must needs also have had a lower and inferior understanding.
Seeing that, instead of his former intimate acquaintance with the holy
virgin within himself\ and instead of the loving mutual embraces of the
twotinctures within his own single person, he was now wholly taken up,
without himself, with such a visible helpmeet as he had longed for;
which alone can show sufficiently an exceeding great difference be-
tween his senses in the primitive state, and his senses in this inferior
state, wherein he was after he had awakened from his * deep sleep.'
But even these paradisaical senses also continued not very long with
him; for, in the fallen state, when the transgression was consummated,
all those paradisaical senses and enjoyments were utterly extinct, and,
instead of them, all the sensations of Adam and Eve were no other
but terrors, dread horrors, fears, anguish, trembling, and despair
;
and, although the promise of the woman's seed put a stop to the ex-
tremity of those terrible sensations, yet it did not restore them their
lost paradisaical enjoyments, much less Adam's primitive heavenly
senses ; but it laid only in the inward ground of their souls a foun-
dation of faith and hope, which they should keep up, strengthen,
and corroborate in themselves, as a means to have this restoration
performed in them successively, gradually, and always in the same
proportion in which they should be found steady, faithful, and true
to this new-laid foundation."
240
CIRCLE III.-SECT. XIX.
AN EPITOME OF THE ANGELICAL WORLD,
EXTRACTED FROM THE MSS. OF DR. JOHN PORDAGE, RECTOR OF
BRADFIELD, BERKS, 1650.*
Communicated by Philadelphus.
This blessed world is called the heavenly Jerusalem and kingdom
of love ; it is inhabited in common by saints and angels. A hea-
* Those who choose to refer to the third volume of Jacob Behmen's works, 4
vols, quarto, edited by William Law, A. M. (author of " The Serious Call," and
several occult works, the most perspicuous extant), will be highly delighted at the
sight of engravings of the " three wonderful tables," said to have been de-
signed and drawn by Sir Peter Paul Rubens ; and those who will take the trouble,
critically, to examine them, will not, I think, hesitate to pronounce them three
of as masterly pieces as were ever delineated by that eminent artist, and associate
of illustrious and royal personages. The following extracts are from one of many
extraordinary mystical works (never printed in English, but translated from the
author's English and Latin MSS. into German) of the pious and learned Dr. John
Pordage, rector of Bradfield, Berks, who was the contemporary and very particular
friend of the celebrated Bishop Saunderson, Dr. Edward Hooker, and Dr. Francis
Lee: the last-mentioned of these, his bosom friends, was a man of stupendous
learning, and was most intimate with Robert Earl of Oxford, when lord high trea-
surer, to whom several proposals were made by him for the lasting honour and
advantage of these nations. Dr. Lee's works are almost innumerable, but, as he
never could be prevailed on to affix his name to any one, they have been made
public under the names of others, or have come into the world anonymously. The
greatest part of Nelson's " Feasts and Fasts" was found in his own hand, after
his decease ; he was the first that put Mr. Hoare and Mr. Nelson upon the found-
ing of charity schools, upon the same plan as that of Halle in Germany ; and he
was continually promoting and encouraging all manner of charities, both public
and private. Peter the Great, Czar of Muscovy, was exceedingly partial to him,
for whom, by request, he wrote, in the year 1696, " Proposals for the right framing
of his Government."
—
Vide Dissertations, Theological, Mathematical, and Physi-
cal, by Francis Lee, M.D. 2 vols. 8vo. 1752 ; also, Rev. R. Roach's " Great Crisis,*
8vo. 1725. Dr. Lee was a member of " The Philadelphian Society :" I therefore
recommend a perusal of "The Theosophical Transactions," by that Society (1
vol. small 4to. 1697), as it contains the most erudite and profound disquisitions
ever written, both scientific and philosophic, as well as theosophic and divine
magic. This singular work has been very rare for the last fifty years, and, as a
proof of that, the copy belonging to the late Mr.Cosway was sold by a bookseller
(Duke Street, Manchester Square), to a friend ofmine, for ten guineas. This may
serve to convince, if possibley the incredulous, that these sublime studies have not
been, in any age, confined to men of little or no consideration in the world, but,
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 241
ven of a burning, (laming, sweet, rapturous fire ; a clear, thorough-
shining, crystalline, joyful light. The angelical world appears en-
compassed by a circle of infinity ; having a firmament in which the
angelical elements operate in harmonious unison and equal tempera-
ment, which makes a clear, serene, and eternal day. The angelical
world is the metropolis of eternity, the temple of God, and glorious
palace of his most high and mighty majesty, wherein he appears
without obscurity to his angels, clear and plain in his holy Trinity,
which they contemplate in the mirror of godly wisdom ; and, through
the love which is in them of God, they are united in humility and
obedience to one spirit. The angelical world is but one heaven,
inasmuch as Christ and his saints live together with the angels; but,
with regard to its variety, there are three heavens, answerable exter-
nally to the Trinity, and internally according to three degrees of glory,
the first, second, and third heaven.
In the angelical world, there is an external trans-parent Paradise to
the angelical senses, and an internal understanding^ mental sight
;
and it is by its most spiritual nature that it is every where present to
the temporal world we inhabit, by which the communications and
knowledge of it are given to men ; and, as the time is at hand when
the second advent of our Lord will fully open the intercourse, men
will be justified, sanctified, and glorified, even in their earthly bo-
dies, by having their conversation in heaven. And here appears the
on the contrary, it may be averred, that scarcely any, comparatively, but persons
of liberal education and of distinction, have been the most earnest in those pur-
suits. As it is not generally known that the father of English astionomers and
mathematicians, Sir Isaac Newton, was indebted for his transcendant knowledge
to Jacob Behmen (who was certainly the prince of occult philosophers and astrolo-
gers), I beg to refer all who are disposed to " The Gentleman's Magazine" for
July, 1782, where they will see an article very explicit on this point, written by a
fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge. But, to conclude, Shakspeare, Milton,
Dryden, the author of " Junius," and numerous other great and good men, of ail
ages and nations, have reverenced these sciences, and benefited themselves and
others by directing their attention to them. It is, however, fruitless to urge more,
since those who " have eyes to see, and ears to hear," will both see and hear 1
whilst those who are blinded by vulgar prejudice (the offspring of ignorance), or
by epicureanism or religious bigotry (which is the worst degree of superstition),
cannot possibly either " see or hear;" wherefore it is truly " vanity of vanities"
to attempt to convince them.
11
242 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
wisdom of God, that, although heaven is every where present on earth,
it cannot appear but by his permission.
The nature of the angelical world is to draw the mind into it, so
far as it is prepared, by denying itself, and mortifying its hellish or
earthly passions. The saints in the lowest heaven may be compared
to the stars, which are distinguished among themselves as to their
size and splendour ; those in the mid-heaven to the moon in its
beauty, and those in the higher heaven, or most holy place, to the sun
in its full glory. All these mansions are dwellings of purity. In the
outward court or lowest heaven there is no selfishness in the saints
or angels ; all its inhabitants are in the life of love, peace, and right-
eousness. The saints in the second, or inward court, are in a more
exalted glory : those in the most holy place are absorbed still deeper
in the Deity, and consequently more gloriously sanctified.
The heaven, or the angelical world, is surrounded by a holy and
pure element, which is an agreeable, sweet, quiet, and heavenly air.
The angels see, feel, taste, smell, and hear the heavenly sight,
substances, odours, and delightful sounds, in their innumerable so-
cieties, in the empire of love in which they dwell ; and there is no
other beatitude than they may have outwardly in Paradise and in-
wardly in God ; yet these are not divided, because the outward is
transparent, and discovers the inward through it.
The angels, though spiritual, are not without form and matter,
with respect to themselves ; it is only with regard to the grossness of
mortality, that they are accounted wholly spiritual, for they enjoy
infinite and innumerable wonders and glories in food, entertain-
ment, and pleasures, springing newly forth from eternity to eternity,
in pomp and glory.
The government of the three princes of heaven is executed by seven
angels or servants to the Trinity. The prince, according to the se-
cond person of the Trinity, is our Saviour, and has the most glorious
throne : all these are in the harmony of the one only wisdom ; and
the lowest place of his dominion is a majestic glorious dwelling—
a
stately palace, an excellent building, a garden of delight, encom-
passed with the angelic principle, and enclosed in the cope of a pure
and heavenly element. In the most outward court all is light and
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 243
eternal day ; the tree of life grows and greens in it, and the river of
life flows through, pure as crystal. I troly advise all lovers of tlie
truth to come to this school, which the writer of this hath experienced
and seen ! There is nothing but blessedness flowing from the in-
fluences of the Holy Trinity, in balmy strength, purity, and joy.
There is no care for meat, drink, or garments ; all these things are
ready at the desire of an angel, in a heavenly manner ; and their va-
riety and wonderful distinctions are of such excellent curiosity, that
the angels and saints of the higher court descend to look at and ad-
mire them. These wonders are so innumerable and past description,
that I can only endeavour to relate the following, as I have heard and
beheld!*
1st. It is of the excellent variety of the lovely elements that the
angels in the outward court are clothed, according to their will and
pleasure, without work or trouble.
2d. The glorious fruitfulness of this Paradise, wherein grow divers
trees, plants, herbs, fruits, and flowers, according to their species,
coming forth of themselves in rapid growth and increase from the well-
watered heavenly earth ; they are transparent and crystalline, with
divers colours, in goodly strength, power, and virtue. How pleasant,
with a heartfelt boldness, strengthening look, and joy, are they to
the spirit's eye beholding them, and how agreeable to the taste ! They
are all mere essences and self-existing things that grow in this deli-
cious garden, and, seeing they are of an eternal substance, like the 60-
dies of angels, they serve both for joy and pleasure to the sight, as
well as for food and nourishment. I speak of the fruits of the gar-
den. Angelic bodies cannot live without a nourishment conformable
to their nature, which must be spiritual, heavenly, and impregnated
* Philadelphia intends to furnish the Editor of " Urania" (a new interesting
monthly publication) with many communications similar to the above, which will
be regularly inserted in that work ; and those who are desirous of possessing the
most comprehensive and explicit books of this class are recommended to purchase
" Bromley's Way to the Sabbath of Rest," &c. " Law's Spirit of Prayer," " Spirit
of Love," " Appeal to all that Doubt," &c. " Way to Diyine Knowledge" and
"Address to the Clergy," "Roach's Great Crisis" and "Imperial Standard,"
"The Chevalier Ramsay's Philosophical Principles of Natural and Revealed Re-
ligion," and "Trjon's Mysterv of Dreams and Visions Unfolded."* These few
volumes will form a choice philosophical mystical library.
»2
244 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
with godly power. These fruits are such that the angels and saints
who have reached the most holy place desire sometimes to eat of
them, seeing they are full of the virtue of the Son of God, who is
also the virtue of the most holy place.
3d. The great abundance of all necessary and agreeable things is
remarkable in the angelic world : here is a continual day of super-
fluity springing up in a constant summer ; eternal harvest or vintage ;
nothing rots ; a fruit broken off brings another in its place ; the soil
is a multiplying strength and virtue of the white pearly earth, and of
the balmy strength which penetrates all this outcourt. The
4th wonder is its beauty and joyfulness, consisting of manifold di-
versified colours, outbreathing odours, groves and walks in vistas,
with the refraction of light sweetly mixed and tempered here and
there in an excellent glory and majesty. No less beautiful are the
plants and flowers, their variety of colours giving joy and exciting
admiration : the leaves of trees and herbs are encompassed with
golden edgings, and the fruits are of a granite red ; they mix
the colours together miraculously, charming the eye, which can only
behold these amazing beauties through the divine light, fire. All-
things in Paradise are so clear you can look through them, but all co-
lours rise with their pure transparency and splendour, through the
mixture "of fire with the other heavenly elements of water, air, and
earth. Here are mountains that exhale aromatic odours, and abun-
dance of houses, cottages, tents, and tabernacles of transparent gold,
with majestic shades of vine-leaves and tree-covered walks, dining-
rooms, pleasure-houses, hillocks, mounts, and rocks of precious
stones, low pleasant valleys, flowing rivulets and fountains, that aug-
ment the beauty and make it sweet and agreeable. The
5th wonder of the lowest heaven is its inexhaustible riches : here
is gold, silver, and all kinds of pearls in abundance, distinguished by
their extraordinary sparkling colours, for ornament, show, pleasure,
joy, and merriment, above comparison with our gold, silver, and pre-
cious stones, which are infinitely inferior in appearance and virtue.
All this belongs to divine wisdom for the use and pleasure of her
children.
6. The wonders of this court, which spring up new, as if they never
were known before, continually breaking out into manifold varieties,
MAGIC CEREMONIES, &C. 245
without end or measure. Here the eye feasts on the most glorious
objects imaginable. Here the ears meet the most agreeable pleasures
in the sweetest musical sounds, and the smell is regaled by the most
enlivening virtues of perfumes, giving relish to the powers of taste
and ecstacy to the sense of feeling ; for, although all the wonders of
this place appear in a godly heavenly essence, and as thin, rare, and
translucent, as the finest air, most subtle and crystalline ;
yet they
can be enjoyed by the senses of angelic bodies, which are suitable
and proportioned to such subtlety and rareness. All these objects
represent themselves to the blessed inhabitants of Paradise without
their labour or trouble. Wliat would it be for a man to gain the
whole world, and to lose this eternal place of joy and pleasure ! The
7th wonder is the union of the blessed through Christ with the
Divine Wisdom, whereby the angels who never fell attain greater
happiness since his incarnation and triumph in the redemption,
whereby he has attained more than the first Adam lost. Of this no
spirit can understand any thing until it is purified to enjoy this union :
it will then know the experience of Solomon in the Canticles. The
8th wonder is the rest and stillness of all these wonders, since the
inhabitants neither labour nor trouble themselves to lay up a store
of any thing. All they want of food, clothing, or amusements, come
at a wish. All is meek and satisfactory, still, soft, and clear; yet
with unbounded power, pungency, triumph, and pomp. Here is a
continual summer, cooled by sweet zephyrs, causing the balm of the
celestial earth to exhale agreeable scents. The
9th wonder consists in the concretion of the heavenly earth, which
hastens as it is moved by the will of the angels, under the influence
of the more spiritual powers and virtues above it ; for there is a con-
tinual descent of blessings from God, throughout the angelic deep or
sky, falling upon the earth of Paradise, which is a transparent, white,
glittering, saline substance, covered with all the productions of its
fruitfulness, and their blessed influence from the sphere of unap-
proachable light passing through Paradise—reaching to this external
temporal world, thereby tempering the harshness and wrath (or evil)
of our mortal elements. Philadelphus
City of London Coffee House, Hieroglyphica Propheticus.
Bucklersbunj, Cheapside.
346
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXII.
CIRCLE THE FOURTH,
CONTAINING
A COMPLETE ILLUSTRATION OF THE CELESTIAL
SCIENCE OF ASTROLOGY:
Comprising the Art of Foreknowing Future Events, by the Positions, Aspects,
and Configurations of the Heavenly Bodies at the Tune of Birth ; with an
Elucidation of the Rides used for calculating the Fate of Empires, States, and
Kingdoms, as well as for resolving all Lawful Horary Questions, relative to
the Secrets of Futurity.
" Canst thou the sky's benevolence restrain,
And cause the Pleiades to shine in vain ?
Or, when Orion sparkles from his sphere,
Thaw the cold season, and unbind the year?
Bid Mazzaroth his destined station know,
And teach the bright Arcturus where to glow ?" Urania.
The most tioble and celestial science of SatroIOGp may be denned
to I"
1
the art of foreknowing and predicting future events by the mo-
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 247
tions, positions, and influences of the heavenly bodies, and other ce-
lestial phenomena, deduced from rational and experimental observa-
tions, made by the most wise philosophers in all ages, and in most
parts of the civilized world. And it is no small honour to this celes-
tial science, that the greatest poets and philosophers of all ages have
been amongst its firmest votaries.
Thus Chaucer, the father of English poetry, writes
—
w For in the stars clearer than is the glass
Is written, God wot, whoso could it read,
The dethe of every man withouten drede.
In starrs many a winter there before
Was writt the dethe of Hector, Achilles,
Of Pompey, Julius, or they were bore ;
The strife of Thebis ; and of Hercules,
Of Samson, Turnus, and of Socrates,
The dethe ; but that men's witts ben so dull
That no wight can well rede it at the full."
Man of Lawe's Tale.
Homer, Virgil, Shakspeare, Dryden, Milton, and Chatterton, and
of late years many first-rate poets, have deemed it nothing irrelevant
to set forth the excellence of judicial astrology. And the inspired
writers declare, that the heavenly bodies were created " for signs,
seasons, days, and years ;" that " the stars in their courses fought
against Sisera;" and, that " the heavens declare the glory of God,
and the firmament showeth his handy work."
" Heaven's golden alphabet
—
And he that runs may read."
Young.
248
CIRCLE IV
r
.—SECT. I.
CERTAIN PRINCIPLES OF NATURE UPON WHICH THE
SCIENCE OF ASTROLOGY IS FOUNDED.
" 1*11 not believe that the arch architect
With all these fires the heavenly arches decked
Only for show ; and with these glittering shields
To amaze poor shepherds watching in the fields.
Til not believe that the least flower which pranks
Our garden borders, or our common banks,
And the least stone that in her warming lap
Our mother Earth doth covetously wrap,
Hath some peculiar virtue of its own,
And that the stars of heaven have none /"
Du Bartas.
Sir Isaac Newton, in his Principia, sec. xi. tells us, " The ac-
tions of bodies attracting, and of bodies attracted, are always mutual
and equal, so that neither the attracting nor the attracted body can
continue at rest :" and, farther on, he says, " I shall now go on to
explain the motion of bodies that attract each other mutually, by
considering their centripetal forces as attractions ; though, perhaps,
physically speaking, they may more truly be called impulses." We
merely enter this down as a principle sufficiently established by the
authority on which it rests, without ourselves contending either for
or against its validity.
The author of the article astronomy in the " Edinburgh yclo-
paedia," p. 688, says, " As all bodies which compose the solar sys-
tem gravitate towards one another, and as the gravitation of each
body is the sum of the gravitation of all its particles, we may con-
clude that each particle of matter in the system gravitates towards
every other particle."—" Newton," says he, " proceeded to inquire
whether, upon the supposition that tltis was the case, the planets inmil
act upon one another in the manner we really find they do. The result
of his investigation showed, that the -assumption he had made was
perfectly consistent with the observed phenomena, and that this was
the only law which would produce them."
Now from Newton's own words we find, in the first place, that
AKT OF FOUEKNOWIXG EVENTS 249
there are some mutual actions existing among all bodies of matter,
which he treats of under the term attractions; meaning, as he signi-
fies, impulses ; thus obviously leading us to understand, that every
portion of nature sympathetically agitates or affects every other por-
tion of nature ; and this is precisely that something which all rational
astrologers ground the elements of their science upon.
We are taught, in the second place, " That every particle of mat-
ter in the system gravitates towards every other particle ;" and that
the law is, That all bodies of the solar system gravitate upon one an-
other with an effect in proportion to the quantity of particles of matter
of which each body is itself composed, and according to the distance
of the several varieties of bodies from one another.
These two Newtonian principles are, in my opinion, ample data
for the whole superstructure of rational astrology to rest upon. New-
ton and his disciples intended, no doubt, to argue from it merely
concerning the action of inanimate upon inanimate matter. We
choose to carry the question farther, and apply it in the general
manner which the terms in which each principle is couched admit
of. Astrologers all know by experience, that animate as well as in-
animate matter is constantly affected by the operation of that mutual
pulsation of particles which Newton calls attraction or impulse ;
and which the other writer describes as particles gravitating towards
particles throughout the system.
Now nothing could surely be looked upon as more absurd than to
urge that a compound of matter, so susceptible as we know the animal
brain and vital essence to be, would be capable of resisting the action
of influences to which, according to the Newtonian principles, every
particle of that dense stone called adamant is obedient and tractable.
Indeed, it is only because men are, for the most part, prone to pin
down their minds from thinking, and to confine them to a mere ex-
ternal view of such subjects as astrology, a comparison is rendered
necessary between intellectual and granite substances, to illustrate the
connection which our principles declare to exist between all parti-
cles of matter, throughout the scope of nature.
It will be necessary for the reader to bear in mind, that, according
as the sum of its particles is greater or less, so is the action of a body
250 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
impressed with greater or less effect; its distance also from the body
acted upon being taken into consideration. For instance : The Sun
is the largest body in nature that we are exposed to; and its effect on
our (ZEartI), and all contained within it, is, therefore, very great : but
the $@oon, being so much nearer the GEartj? than the Sun, although
the sum of its particles of matter is as nothing compared to the sum
of particles in the body of the Sun, yet its influence on the GEartlj,
and all it contains, is considerably greater than that of the Sun.
It requires but few words to explain, that if the &un do, as the
Newtonian principles allege, attract the vast and solid body of the
(£artb, it must have a very powerful effect indeed on the more subtle
matter which constitutes the bodies of animals : and if men were
disposed to trace effects to their causes, there is not a rational man
in the world who would not, at once, perceive, from the sensations
he is constantly experiencing, that mutual action which is going on
between insensible and sensible matter.
No author that I am acquainted with has yet attempted to refer
the doctrines of astrology to Newtonian principles. Indeed, since
the discovery of that inherent force by which all bodies in nature are
urged to bear or press towards their respective centres, it has become
a fashion to cry down astrology as a chimera : and, though many
individuals have continued to follow it up upon the principles of the
Ptolemaic system, yet none, I believe, have ever given themselves
the trouble to reduce it into the Copernican, and to show how perfectly
its laws are of a piece with that effort of nature which is called gra-
vitation, in bodies that revolve, and attraction, in the centre round
which their motions are described.
As the intention of this part of our work is to throw some new light
on the rationale of this very interesting and sublime science, the intel-
ligent reader will see the necessity of bearing invariably in mind the
philosophical rudiment deduced from the experimental process of
Newton; namely, That every particle of matter in the universe is
endued with a sympathetic energy or influence, by which it is capable
of communicating imperceptibly with every other particle throughout
the system of nature.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 251
The next thing required, in order to apply the principles here pro-
posed to the doctrines of astrology, is, to endeavour to acquire, by the
best and most enlarged means of comparison that we can adopt, some
notion of the innumerable, immense, and differently-organized con-
globations of particles which the 0un0 and other mighty spheres of
the universe severally contain. No mind, it is certain, can expand
itself sufficiently to comprehend the mightiness and multiplicity of
the orbs of heaven, and the variety of their qualities and structures;
indeed, a profound capacity is necessary for contemplating, with
any thing like an adequate view, that small portion of the world which
is called the solar system, and of which the vast earth we live upon
is but a comparatively small member.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. II.
THE PROPORTIONAL QUANTITIES OF MATTER COM-
BINED IN THE SEVERAL BODIES OF THE SOLAR SYS-
TEM.
We actually know the earth on which we live to be nearly 95,000
miles in circumference, and that the mass of matter of which it is
composed is about 450 times as dense as water. The idea of the
wonderful extent of this body may be rather better assisted by con-
ceiving the length of time occupied in going from kingdom to king-
dom, or in sailing round it. A farther conception may be also
derived, from considering the great number of distinct nations on its
surface, with many of which we are yet unacquainted; for there are
yet many great regions that still remain unexplored. Having suffered
the mind to enlarge itself, as far as it is able, by meditating on this
mighty globe, with which we are most familiar, we become rather
better able to draw inferences, on comparing the proportion of matter
in the body of the earth, with the quantities contained in the various
orbs with which our's is associated. To bring this point in as narrow
a shape for consideration as possible, we shall here merely compare
the proportions of matter contained in each planet, with that which
252 THE ASTROLOGER OK THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
is condensed in the body of the Earth ; and then we shall, by a similar
scale, show the comparative masses of each planet with the solar mass.
And first,
—
The Earth contains about 6 times more matter than Mercury.
1 and 1-1 Oth Venus.
Ill Mars.
3 1 2 times less than Jupiter.
,.98 Saturn.
.17 Georgium Sidus.
, .40 times more than The Moon.
I would now recommend close attention to the wonderful aggre-
gation of matter accumulated in the body of the Sun: and this will
be somewhat the more readily conceived from the comparative bulk
of the Earth and of the several planets having been just now exa-
mined.
The Sun contains about 2,000,000 times more matter than Mercury.
400,000 Venus.
334,000 The Earth.
4,000,000 Mars.
1 ,070 Jupiter.
20,000 Geor.Sidus.
133,600,000 The Moon.
3,400 Saturn.
" Fond mortals ! why should we ourselves abuse ?
Nor use those powers which God permits to use ?
Basely detract from the celestial mind,
And close our eyes, endeavouring- to be blind ?
We see the skies, then why should we despair
To know the fatal office of each star ?
To open nature, to unveil her face,
Go in, and head the order of the maze.
Man, know thy powers, and not observe thy size:
Thy noble power in piercing Reason lies,
And Reason conquers all, and rules the skies." Manilius.
After having suffered the mind to pause, for a time, over this view,
our next object will be to fix, as deeply as we can, the necessary im-
ART OF FOREKNOWING KVKXTS. 253
pression which a return to the Newtonian principles is calculated to
make, concerning the influence of these inconceivably vast masses
upon one another. In this part of our investigation, it is necessary
to understand something of the revolutions and rotations which each
orb is subject to, and by which they are constantly varying their
positions relative to each other. Hence, they are occasionally brought
to act with varied effects; and, from their perpetual change of place,
being sometimes nearer together, and sometimes farther asunder,
than at others, there is a continual variation of force exerted on every
distinct portion of the system ; and the more susceptible particles,
connected any how with every planetary mass, are thus compelled to
change their place every successive instant, in consequence of the
attractive or pulsive force which every sphere is exerting.
As all treatises of astrology that have obtained any degree of repu-
tation are founded upon the quadripartile of Ptolemy, and as the sys-
tem of our fraternity of planets, as regards their centre and their
order, is so different, as laid down by that philosopher, to the system
now prevailing, it will be proper, before we proceed to the effects of
the several aspects, to give the order of the planets according to
Ptolemy, and also according to Copernicus, or Newton.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. Ill,
PTOLEMY'S SYSTEM. PRESENT SYSTEM.
Centre, The <Eart|). Centre, The %>un.
1 - The ^oon. 1 - $£ercurp.
2 - SJBercurp. 2 - (Kentw.
3 - fteniw. 3 - <?Bartf> and $£oon.
4 - The €>im. 4 - C£at0.
5 - SPar*. 5, 6, 7, 8 - ©eata, 3fimo, <zrerea, IPaUae*
6 - Jupiter. 9 - lupiter.
7 - Saturn. 10 - Saturn,
1 1 - <Seorfiium SiTiu0.
To strike into all the minute and abstruse ramifications which
254 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
concern this curious part of philosophy, would be very tedious to
both the writer and the reader, and would therefore be inconsistent
with our design. Having, in the preceding pages, supplied such
calculations as are sufficient to assist the mind in estimating the power
of one planet on any other, by showing the proportion of matter which
each brings into action, the judgment of those for whose consideration
this subject is chiefly adapted will be able to supply those argu-
ments, relative to difference of effect which is produced by the differ-
ence of distances between the several orbs, and also of that peculiar
change in place between apogee and perigee, by which peculiar fluc-
tuations of effect on the atmosphere, and consequently on all animal
nature subsisting within it, is occasioned.
That which has been said, hitherto, on the theory of astrology,
extends no farther than the elementary principles of the science : and
we next come to propound arguments, established on the principles
already laid down, relative to the continual and fluctuating action of
matter upon matter,—of celestial upon terrestrial bodies—of the
stars upon man.
No fact in philosophy is more indisputable than that which assures
us of the influence of the sun, moon, planets, and stars, on the earth
and its inhabitants. The continual and periodical change in the
weather—the constant and the variable winds to which particular
climates are subject—the phenomena peculiar to the several seasons,
and many other effects that might, were it necessary, be pointed out,
are proofs which render the existence of such planetary influence un-
questionable. There is, howevers
one means more visible than either
of those before mentioned, by which the effects of planetary influence
may be exemplified, and pretty well estimated ; and that is, ^he
alternate ebbing and flowing of the sea. The phenomena exhibited
in this department of nature is so analogous to those operations on
which astrological doctrines rest, that it cannot be too closely exa-
mined into : and the more scrupulously it is brought into comparison
with atmospheric fluctuations, the more will these be understood, and
the science of astrology be venerated. To the arguments and means
of exemplification of astral influence, which the flux and reflux of
the ocean furnish, shall this part of my subject be confined.
255
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. IV.
ARGUMENTS CONCERNING STARRY INFLUENCE, DRAWN
FROM THE TIDES.
By the term tide, as here used, we are to understand the period-
ical approaches of the water of the ocean to, and their alternate re-
cessions from, the shores of every country of the earth. The tides
of the ocean have a very immediate connection with lunar astro-
nomy ; for, where their course is unimpeded, it is commonly high
water when the moon is about on the south-south-west point of the
compass of the horizon of any place : consequently, the greatest ele-
vation of the waters will be about twenty, or from that to twenty-five,
degrees eastward of the moon. All the operations of the tides are
confined between determinate limits, which are called high and low
water. The interval between high water at one time, and the high
water following, is half the time of the moon's apparent circuit
round the earth, which is 12 hours 25 minutes ; so that, in 24 hours
50 minutes, the tide ebbs and flows twice upon every coast.
Thus far we have considered the phenomena of the tides as re-
sulting from lunar influence alone ; but there is a force in the sun
as well as in the moon, which is constantly operating to disturb the
ocean, and which produces special effects, according as it is com-
bined with, or counter to, the lunar influence. General experience
has shown that the lunar is to the solar force about as 5 to 2. It is
also found that the 01m, in quadrature with the moon, causes a de-
pression or diminution of lunar effect, of 30J inches in the height
of a tide, it being at these times that the two luminaries are acting
at right angles to one another, as they do in all quartile aspects.
The lunar effect of itself causes a rise of about six feet ; consequently,
the mean spring-tide, where there are no obstructions, should be
30| + 72=:102| inches, and the mean neap-tide 72—30J=41$
inches ; and this is found to correspond with observation in a general
way, and setting localities out of the question.
But the distance of each luminary from the earth being variable,
256 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
occasions different intensities of force to be constantly employed, so
that neither these nor any other proportions are to be esteemed con-
stant. They are, however, quite sufficient for the present purpose,
which is that of giving general ideas of the nature of the solar and
lunar influences, as they happen to be in conjunction or quadrature,
and exerted in these positions upon terrestrial matter.
Considerable difference in the magnitude of a tide is caused by
the moon'0 distance, so that the ratio of the disturbing force in the
moon to that in the 0un is sometimes 6 to 2, and at others not
more than 4 to 2 : thus, in the former instance, instead of the mean
spring-tide being 8£ feet, it would be 10 feet; and in the latter case
only 7J, But as well as that of the 01m and moon, every planet has
a gravitating power on the waters of the ocean ; and the combined
influence of the ten primary planets, were it all brought into action
at one time, would be, to that of the sun and moon conjointly, about
as 1 to 100; so that, in a mean spring-tide of 102 inches, the united
influence of the planets would raise it about one inch.
When the moon is in perigree at the time of spring-tide, sucb tide
may be expected to rise at least 2| feet higher than a mean spring-
tide ; and, on the other hand, a difference of 2J.
feet deficiency will
be generally experienced in spring-tides, which happen at the time
of the moon'0 apygee.
If the moon has a northern declination, and the latitude of the
place is also northern, the tide which happens when the moon is above
the horizon is greater than that which happens on the same day
when she is below it : and, when the latitude of the place is contrary
to the declination of the moon, the effect is reversed.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. V.
APPLICATION OF THE FACTS CONCERNING THE TIDES
TO ASTROLOGY.
Having thus presented some of the most obvious facts relative to
the action of the 01m, moon, and planct0 severally, upon the waters
of the ocean, it cannot fail to be observed, that all the inequalities
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 257
of motion—of distance —of declination—of phases—and of mutual
aspects, agreeing, as they do, with observation as to their various
proportional effects, aftbrd a mass of evidence which places the
theory of siderial influence upon terrestrial matter upon a founda-
tion which nothing can destroy, or even shake. Indeed, no one ac-
quainted with the peculiar and nicely corresponding ratio between
cause and effect relative to the tides, and having, at the same time,
skill in mathematics, and acquaintance with the mechanism of
nature, sufficient to discover these sympathetic relations, and to
generalize them to questions in astrology, will, for a moment, he-
sitate to own, that every star has an influence which is not to be
restrained by human power—that this influence is constantly pro-
ducing some mutation in the earth—and, like the ebbing and flowing
of the sea, is impetuously running, without intermission, round all
the regions of the world.
Pythagoras maintained that the world is actuated by a divine soul
;
and, when we come to examine that miraculous sympathy in nature
so admirably manifested between the heavenly bodies, and the amaz-
ing body of water, surrounding our earth, which is incessantly agi-
tated by sympathetic influence, we are involuntarily brought to
think of the doctrine of this eminent sage. In looking deeply into
the sympathies which we are constantly experiencing, we can hardly
quarrel with those who have ascribed them to an agency more than
we can comprehend. We see a gift of foreknowledge strongly im-
planted in the badger, the hedgehog, the hare, and almost every animal
with which we are acquainted. We see, also, that birds and reptiles have
a surprising forecast : and who can fail to perceive effects constantly
working between the heavenly bodies, and the bodies and souls
of mankind ? Whether there exists an ethereal effluvium that is
communicated from one body of matter to another, and which pro-
duces those strange sympathies we are witnessing, is not necessary
to be declared ; we know they are produced, and being able to con-
nect them with what we term planetary influence is sufficient to
show we have sound groundwork for forecasting the effects incident
to known causes.
s
258
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. V,
THE DISTINCTION NECESSARY TO BE OBSERVED
BY ASTROLOGERS
Between the Effects of Planetary Influence, as it is exerted upon Ani-
mate and Inanimate Matter,
Those who have taken the trouble to weigh with attention what
has been already advanced concerning the proportion of force with
which the Bun, moon, and planets, severally act upon the waters of
the ocean, will have, no doubt, come to this inference : namely, If
those bodies do thus compel so gross a mass of matter as the ocean to
periodically toss and roll in a manner contrary to its own nature, which
is INERT REPOSE, so must their respective influences operate to disturb
and alter the state of every sort of matter ivhatsoever, sensible and in-
sensible, that is connected with the earth; and minds which have ar-
rived at this conclusion may be said to have made the first step in
rational astrology.
Hitherto the pulsive quality, or gravitating or attracting capacity,
of inanimate bodies upon one another has only been examined : and,
in order to understand something of the sympathy that subsists be-
tween the inanimate and animate, another course of reasoning than
that already adopted will be necessary to be resorted to. From the
great depth at which many philosophical truths lie, and the diffi-
culty of getting at them, the ancients had a saying, Veritas in pu-
teo, Truth lies in a well: and it is only by a proper chain of
reasoning that it can be drawn out of the depth and darkness in which
it dwells; and more particularly in the case of natural and judicial
astrology.
The whole surface of the human body, when moderately corpu-
lent, is about fourteen feet square : and the pressure which occasions
the rise and fall of the mercury in the thermometer shows, by its
variation, that at one time, when the air is most heavy, such a body
sustains a pressure externally of 33,9051bs. ; while, when the atmos-
phere is lighter, the pressure on the same body is not more than
30,624fbs» : and, consequently, an increase or decrease of weight
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 259
equal to. 328 libs, may be externally acting on the body of a person,
and which change he may suffer every few hours, as the fluctuations
of the barometer sufficiently prove.
Now we well know that this vast outside pressure could not be
sustained, unless it were properly counterbalanced by some adequate
means of resistance within the said body : and internal means of ac-
commodating itself to these fluctuations of the atmosphere are sup-
plied by the Author of Nature to every animal body. Yet that equi-
librium which is necessary to ease is constantly being disturbed ;
and agitations which may be compared to the ebbing and flowing of
the tides of the ocean are constantly being experienced by every
living animal : and this perpetual tossing and rolling of the tide of
life is referrible to the self-same cause as that which occasions- the
fluctuations of the ocean,—namely, planetary influence.
In a body that is robust, and has all its members perfect, pulsation,
or the natural vibration of its organs, will soon effect composure, as
sudden changes in the atmosphere are taking place : but, where any
member or organ is out of order, the free and rapid circulation of the
internal matter is obstructed, and pain or unpleasant sensations are
the consequence: nor will these cease, until a perfect equilibrium
between the internal resistance and external force has been restored.
Now the human body cannot be materially affected without the
mind partaking, at the same time, of those effects which cause- the
corporeal sensations, whether they happen to be agreeable or pain-
ful. The vicissitude to which beings like ourselves are constantly
exposed by atmospheric changes has been expressed by a learned poet
:
"Temperie cceli, corpusque animusque mutatur."
By temperature of air, we find,
Changed is the body and the mind.
Thus it is fairly demonstrated, that the combined or contrary influ-
ences of the planets are constantly operating to produce certain effects
on the body and mind of every living being on the face of the earth, in
a manner comparatively similar to the phenomena of the tides of the
ocean; and that the lives and actions of men, and the fate of indivi-
duals and nations, are thus subject, in a great measure, to planetary
control.
s 2
260
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. Vt
OBSERVATIONS RELATIVE TO THE PRACTICE OF
ASTROLOGY.
The champions and promoters of astrology have, in every age,
been men of the most extensive philosophical inquiry, and of the
deepest erudition : it has also had antagonists of no small fame and
reputation, but they happen to have been either persons who did not
understand it, or bigots to some tenets which it may have seemed to
oppose. Now, it opposes no tenets that are virtuous ; and it is weak-
ness of mind to fancy, that faith in rational science is at variance
with faith in divine revelation.
After reading the course of arguments which has been already fol-
lowed on the theory of astrology, no man that is perfectly sane will
venture to deny, but that the heavenly bodies operate upon this in-
ferior world, and all things material and immaterial which it contains,
by their influential qualities and natural virtues ; since nature and
experience combine to testify, as before proved,—that the change of
air alters our bodies and minds—that the humours of men are all
moved by celestial influences—and that, according to the changes of
mutual position in the stars, every being on earth is sensible of con-
sequent fluctuations of the essentials of existence.
He that would become proficient in this eminent, delightfully sub-
lime, and almost boundless province of natural philosophy, must not
expect to accomplish his desires without much laborious study, and
intense application of his rational faculties. He must have the map
of the whole universe depicted in his mind, and watch nature with
a scrupulous eye in all her secret operations. It is not sufficient for
him merely to be able to run over the names of the twelve signs of
the zodiac: he must examine minutely the signs themselves, and
weigh their constituent members, and their proportions of matter
—
their relative positions, and proximity to, or remoteness from, all
other powerful constellations without the zodiac. He must not sup-
pose that a knowledge of the several degrees that constitute sextiles,
triucs, quartiles, and oppositions, makes up much towards a profici-
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS'. 26 I
ency iu astrology: and yet it is, nevertheless, necessary lor him to
perfectly understand these, as a part of the rudiments. Nothing in
the fundamental progress is certainly more requisite than for the
student to make himself perfect in the qualities of the signs and
planets and the several significations of the twelve houses of a figure :
he should be also expert in setting a scheme, and in varying the sig-
nifications of the houses according to the subject-matter which he
may, at any time, have under contemplation.
In seeking to obtain, in as perfect a. manner as possible, the pre-
paratory steps, he will have the greater difficulties to surmount in
consequence of the discrepancies and conflicting opinions which he
will find in the authors he consults ; who have, for the most part, ad-
vanced many idle conceits of their own, and from which none but a
judicious mind will know how to select and form his system. There
is not to be fouud, from Ptolemy downwards, anyone regularly writ-
ten treatise which, of itself, can be taken as a standard, and will ad-
mit of being followed; and yet all contain something worthy to be
received. The only way, therefore, is to examine as many of the
best masters as can be readily laid hold of, and, by philosophically
investigating their principles, a person conversant in physiological
study will be able to deduce a theory free from obsolete tenets and
fantastic notions. Among the works on this subject, it is neo ssary,
as original writers and our first leaders, to consult the De Judiciis
Astrologicis, of Ptolemy—the Astronomicon of Manilius—Baptista
Porta's Speculum Astrologies—with the subsequent works of Placidus,
Morinus, Regiomontanus, Campanus, Alcabitius, &c.—and these as
they have been severally understood and copied by Lily, Wharton,
Bishop Coley, Partridge, Gadbury, Parker, &c. who, most of them,
have furnished us with collections and cullings enough, but withuut
any well-digested system. Amongst the moderns, we may mention
the works of Hcydon, Ball, Thrasher, Poole, Mensforlh, Sibly, and
White; neither of which can be recommended as a standard, al-
though there are select parts to be culled from each. To these may
be added Wilson, who is the last of the astrological authors, and
whose dictionary is undoubtedly a useful book of reference, though
filied with many curious opinions. Since the publication of bis
262 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
work, no other treatise has appeared at all connected with the science,
and the same dearth of astrological information, so much complained
of, still exists, which, however, in the present concise treatise it shall
be our business to obviate as far as our limits will admit, and which
we hope will be found really acceptable to the student in this celes-
tial science.
Having premised thus far, we will now take a view of the symbo-
lical characters and first principles of the astrological science; and
first
—
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. VII.
OF THE TWELVE SIGNS AND THEIR DIVISIONS.
The Jotiiac is a great circle of the sphere, and is divided into 360
degrees ; every degree is subdivided into 60 other divisions, called
minutes, and every minute into 60 seconds ; every sign contains 30
of those degrees, and so the 12 signs fill the whole ?otiiac; for 12
times 30 is 360, &c. They are thus characterized :
—
<y» S3 ^« Yf Moveable)
tt SI trt x* Fixed b Signs.
u r?£ t X Common }
Again,
&z Si tiji ^ N| $ Signs of right ascension,
YP ~ X V h n Signs of oblique ascension,
n x and the beginning of $ are double-bodied signs.
S3 til >£ Fruitful Signs.
ii SI n|i Barren Signs.
<Y> ^ m $ >j> Quadrupedian, or four-footed Signs.
These signs are termed fixed, common, and moveable, because,
whenever the gun is in any one of them, it answers to the season of
the year; the weather being then either moveable or fixed, or between
both :—
<y, n (,} j± i
— Fiery and airy masculine Signs,
h 3 "£ "I V$ ^ Earthly and watery feminine Sigu-.
263
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. VIII.
OF the gomar,
Ok the path of the planets through the heavens, which forms an
imaginary belt, or circle, about eighteen degrees in breadth, and is
divided into the twelve signs : —8rie0, the Ram ; 2Tauru0, the Bull
;
Gemini, the Twins ; Cancer, the Crab ; Heo, the Lion ; <Hirgo, the
Virgin; Hibra, the Balance; Scorpio, the Scorpion; £acnttariu0,
the Archer ; vJTapricornue, the Goat ; aquaritw, the Water-bearer
;
IPteces, the Fishes ; and they are noted on globes, &c. in the follow-
ing manner :
—
Aries. Taurus. Gemini. Cancer. Leo. Virgo.
or b n © & njl
Libra. Scorpio. Sagittarius. Capricornus. Aquarius. Pisces.
^ nt t y? ^ X
The former six are called northern, and the latter southern signs,
because the former possess that half of the ecliptic which lies to the
northward of the equinoctial ; and the latter, that which lies to the
southward.
The northern are our summer signs ; the southern, our winter
ones.
These twelve signs answer to the twelve months of the year ; and it
is probable that their astrological efficacy or significations were dis-
covered to the natives of the oriental regions by the following obser-
vations :
—
The first sign, 8rie0, denotes, that aboat the time when the 0im
enters into that part of the ecliptic, the lambs begin to follow the
sheep. On the 0tm'0 approach to the second constellation, 3Tauru0,
the bull, the cows are about to bring forth their young. The third sign,
<S>ermni, was originally two kids, and signified the time of the goats*
bringing forth, as these animals generally produce two at a birth,
while the former, the sheep and the cow, commonly produce only
one.
The fourth sign, Cancer, the crab, an animal that goes sideways
jmd backwards, was placed at the northern solstice, the point where
264 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
the Butt begins to return back again from the north to the south-
ward.
The fifth sign, Heo, the lion, as being a very furious animal, was
thought to denote the heat and fury of the burning eun, when he has
left Cancel, and entered the sign Heo.
The succeeding constellation, the sixth in order, received the eun
at the time of ripening corn, and approaching harvest ; which was
aptly expressed by one of the female reapers, with an ear of corn in
her hand, viz. (ftirco, the maid, or virgin.
The ancients gave to the next sign, Scorpio, two of the twelve di-
visions of the JoTjiac. Autumn, which affords fruits in great abun-
dance, affords the means and causes of diseases, and the succeeding
time is the most unhealthy of the year, expressed by this venemous
animal, here spreading out his long claws into one sign, as threaten-
ing mischief, and in the other brandishing his tail, to denote the
completion of it.
The fall of the leaf was the season of the ancient hunting ; for
which reason, the stars which marked the flun'a place at this season,
into the constellation ©agittarp, a huntsman with his arrows and his
club, the weapons of destruction for the large creatures he pursued.
The reason of the wild goat's being chosen to mark the southern
solstice, Capricorn, when the eun has attained his extreme limit that
way, and begins to return and mount again to the northward, is ob-
vious enough ; the character of that animal being, that it is mostly
climbing and ascending some mountain as it browses.—There yet
remains two signs of the JoUiac to be considered, with regard to their
origin, viz. 3-Quarfufl and JPtecea. As to the former, it is to be con-
sidered that the winter is a wet and uncomfortable season ; this,
therefore, was expressed by Aquarius, the figure of a man pouring
out water from an urn.
The last of the zodiacal constellations was ©i/3CC0, a couple of
fishes tied together, that had been caught ; the lesson was, the se-
vere season is over, your flocks do not yet yield their store, but the
seas and rivers are open, and there you may take fish in abundance.
265
CIRCLE IV^-SECT. IX.
OF THE ASPECTS.
Thesk are certain positions, in which the planets act upon and
affect each other. They are of two kinds, zodiacal and mundane :
zodiacal aspects are those measured by the degrees of the ecliptic ;
mundane are calculated by the semiarcs of the planets. By semiarc
is meant half the time which elapses from a star's rising to its setting,
and vice vcrsd. For example—if the day be sixteen hours long, the
semidiurnal arc will be eight hours ; that is, the tsim is eight hours
from the time of his rising at four o'clock, to the time of his coming
to the meridian at twelve : now it is evident, if he be sixteen hours
above the earth, he can be but eight beneath it ; consequently, his
seminocturnal arc will be four hours, and the semidiurnal or noc-
turnal arc or of any planet is the same as that of the sun in the same
point.
We shall now proceed to treat of the effects of the different as-
pects :
—
d , a conjunction, is when two planets are both in the same degree
and minute of a sign. The effects of conjunctions are either good
or bad, according as the planets are friends or enemies to each other,
or to the subject then under consideration.
SEMISEXTILE.
The semisextile, or twelfth part of a circle, is a distance of thirty
degrees in the zodiac, and is supposed to be slightly beneficial.
SEMIQUADRATE.
The semiquadrate, or semiquartile, the eighth part of a circle, is
a distance of forty-five degrees in the ecliptic. This aspect, though
not allowed by Placidus, there is every reason to suppose, is very
evil, and has been thought by some good judges to equal, if not ex-
ceed, the square in malevolence.
5fc, a sextile aspect, implies two of the heavenly bodies posited at
the distance of sixty degrees, or one sixth part of the zodiac, from
266 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
each other. The sextile is termed an aspect of imperfect love or
friendship ; because, when two planets or significators are in sextile
to each other, they import that any matter in dispute, treaty of mar-
riage, or any other subject of inquiry, may be happily terminated,
or brought about by the means of friends ; or that, for want thereof,
the contrary may happen : it is generally considered an omen of the
favourable kind.
By a n quartile aspect, two planets are understood to be posited
at ninety degrees, or one fourth part of the circle of the zodiac, from
each other. The quartile is considered an aspect of imperfect ha-
tred, and acts vice versd with the sextile, inclining rather to con-
tention and misfortune, as the other does to friendship, harmony,
and good fortune.
j\t a trine aspect, imports the planets to be situated at the distance
of one hundred and twenty degrees, or one third part of the circle
of the zodiac, from each other. This is an aspect of the most perfect
unanimity, friendship, and peace ; and it is so considered, because,
when the planets are in a A aspect, they are posited in signs pre-
cisely of the same triplicity and nature : that is to say, they are both
in an earthy, airy, fiery, or watery sign ; and, consequently, both
contribute their mutual influences.
QUINT1LE.
The quintile, or fifth part of a circle, comprehends seventy- two
degrees in the ecliptic. Placidus admits this as one of the good as-
pects, but there is little reason to suppose it has much efficacy.
SESQUIQUADRATE.
The sesquiquadrate is the opposite point of the semiquartile, and,
like that, is a discordant aspect; experience shows the effects of
both to be very powerful, and their influence may be particularly
observed on the weather, for changes more frequently take place at
the time of the moon'0 sesquiquadrates and semiquartiles with the
gun, than even her squares and oppositions. It contains one hun-
dred and thirty-five degrees in the zodiac.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 267
BIQUINTILE.
The biquintile, or double quintile, is one hundred and forty-four
degrees of the ecliptic ; it, like the quintile, is supposed to be good,
and as such is admitted by Placidus, but experience does not seem
altogether to confirm this opinion.
<?., the opposition of two planets, signifies their being posited at
one hundred and eighty degrees, or just half the distance of the zo-
diac, apart, which places them diametrically opposite to each other
in the heavens. This is considered an aspect of perfect hatred, or
of inveterate malice and enmity, as malignant in its effect as the
trine is benevolent, and of double the destructive tendency ; of the
ii aspect, therefore, an £ is justly termed an aspect of perfect en-
mity.
These aspects are all divided into partile and platic aspects, A
partile aspect considers two planets, exactly so many degrees from
each other as make a perfect aspect ; that is, if Gtentw be in 12 de-
grees of dancer, and 3fupttet in 12 degrees of ©irgo, they are in par-
tile sextile aspect. All perfect aspects are partile, and imply the
matter or thing threatened, whether good or evil, to be near at hand.
By a platic aspect we are to understand two planets so posited as
to admit half the degrees of each of their own rays or orbs ; or, if
their distance from each other brings them within one half of each
of their orbs or radiations, when added together, they will then form
a platic aspect.
It must be observed in these aspects, whether the co-operation of
the two planets is going off or coming on, for this will, in proportion,
affect the subject, whatever it may be.
A planet is essentially strong, or operates with the greatest force,
when posited in his own house, exaltation, or triplicity, is according
to the following table :—
26S
A TABLE OF THE ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES OF THE FLA-
NETS, ACCORDING TO THE SYSTEM OF PTOLEMY.
c
fco
c/3
Houses
of
the
Planets
11 Tripli.
D.N. Q S 1
Planets
allowed
for
being
in
reception,
5
dignities,
and
for
being
peregrine,
5
debilities.
qp $ D © 19 0U 9 b
b ? N 3) 3 9 a b
n 5 D a 3 b 5 V V
© D ND If 15 £ J b a
Si 0ND ©^ b
S N ^ *5 9 5 ^4 9
4± 9 D b 21 b 5 3 ©
m. J N $ $ ? c
t ^4 D $ 3 e% 2 £
\tf i n $ 28 2 « « <
^ b
D
b 5 ©
2
X l; N 9 27 $ $ 5
5
Good
4
Good.
3
Good. Good. 1
5
Bad.
4
Bad.
Bad.
The Use of the former Table.
Every planet hath two signs for his houses, except © and (J , who
have but one each. T? hath yp and m ; %, £ and X » £ » t wi
»
©> a ; d » © ; 9 t b **; and g, n tT£. One of these houses
is called diurnal, noted in the second column by the letter D ; the
other nocturnal, noted by the letter N. In these signs the planets
have their exaltations, which the third column points out, as the ©
inl9<r»C3b»£linn3 degrees, &c. are exalted.
These twelve signs are divided into four triplicities. The fourth
column tells you which planet or planets, both night and day, govern
ART OF FORFRXOWIN'G EVENTS. 269
each triplicitly; as, over against <y» &» £ » you find 0, %f viz,
governetb by day in that triplicity, and % by night. Over against
b » njU Vf* you fi^cl $ and C ; viz. $ hath dominion by day, and
d by night in that triplicity. Over against n, £±, s;, you find Jj ,
$ , which rule as aforesaid. Over against ©, rri,, X, you find $ ,
who, according to Ptolemy, ruleth that triplicity both day and night.
In the column over against <y> you find $ detriment, viz. £ being
in <Y>,is in a sign opposite to €s, her own house, and so is said to be
in her detriment. In the fifth column, over against qr», you find $
detriment, viz. $ , being in ry, is in a sign opposite to a, her own
house, and so is said to be in her own detriment. In the sixth
column, over against <y , you nn d 1? » over his head-fall ; that is, when
fj is in fy>, he is opposite to «£-, his exaltation, and so is unfortunate,
&c. Thus are you to consider of the whole twelve signs.
A planet, dignified as above, is said to be in his essential dignities :
accidental dignities are, when planets are casually in an angle or
succeedent house, direct, free from combustion.
A planet in his house or exaltation, being significator of any per-
son, denotes him to be in a happy and prosperous condition : not
wanting for the goods of this life, and comparatively, as a man in his
own castle, secure from danger. But a planet debilitated, as being
in detriment, or fall, and afflicted, denotes the person to be in a very
low and mean condition, much dejected, and disconsolate, &c*
THE ORBS OF THE 1
DEG. MIX
Saturn . . 10
3iitpiter . 12
flto . • 4 7 30
?pbon . . . 12 30
©enu0 . . 8
Mercury . , 7
&im , , 17
* Many persons at the present day hold that the essential dignities of the pla-
nets have no efficacy in nativities. This, however, the student will soon judge
the truth of from experience. In questions, they have, undoubtedly, great force
and power. The terms and phases of the planets are no longer considered by
astrologers.
270
& Meteorological 2Ta!>le.
Lights of the world ! ye rolling orbs on high ?
That lead the various seasons through the sky.
From Expect in Spring. Expect in Sum-
mer.
Expect in Au-
tumn.
Expect inWinter,
Saturn and
Jupiter.
Wind and rain.
Rain and thun-
der.
Wind and rain. Turbulent air.
Saturn and
Marx
Rain and thunder.
Thunder and
hail.
Rain and storms.
Mitigation of
cold.
Saturn and
the Sun.
Cold rains.
Hail, rain, thun-
der.
Cold rains. Snow and rain.
Saturn and
the Moon.
Clouds and moist
air.
Cooling rains. Cloudy weather.
Clouds and
snow.
Saturn and
Mercury.
Wind and rain. Windy weather.
Winds and
clouds.
Winds and
snow.
Saturn and
Venus.
Cold rains. Sudden rains. Cold rains. I Snow or rain.
Jupiter and
Mars.
Turbulent weather.
Heat and thun-
der.
Winds, but
warm.
Temperate
weather.
Jupiter and
the Sun.
Windy weather.
Thunder and
lightning.
Windy, yet
warm.
Mitigation of
cold.
Jupiter and
the Moon.
Genial showers and
gentle gales
Favourable and
serene air.
Calni& temperate
withwhiteclouds
Mitigation of the
season.
Jupiter and
Mercury.
High winds.
Winds and thun-
der.
Moist air and
winds.
Rain and winds
Jupiter and
Venus.
Growing weather.
Delightful and
bland.
Clear and serene
air.
Unusual warmth.
Mars and
the Sun.
Dry and windy
weather
Thunder and
lightning.
Dry and windy
weather.
Mitigation of
cold.
Mars and
the Moon.
Showers and hail. Thunder storms. Intemperate air. Variable.
Mars and
Mercury.
Rain and wind.
Thunder and
hail.
Hail and winds. Snow or rain.
Mars and
Venus.
Abundant rains. Small rains. Rainy weather. Rain or snow.
The Sun and
Venus.
Moist weather.
Thunder
showers.
Small rain. Mists or rain.
The Moon
and Venus.
Cloudy and moist.
Mitigation of
heat.
Cloudy and
dark.
Winds and sleet
Mercuryand
Venus.
Sweet pleasant
showers.
Rainy or cloudy. Variable.
Abundant rains,
sometimes floods
Mercuryand
the Moon.
Variable weather,
according to the
nature of the sign
and configuration
Vanableweatlier,
according to
the sign, &c.
&c.
Variable, &c. &c.
Varia!>
le
'
&c«
&c.
The Sun and
Mercury.
In airy signs, south
winds; in watery,
rain; ifretrograde,
always rain.
Changeful and
influenced by
other configu-
rations, &c &c.
Mutable, often
drizly or moist,
but observe
other planets.
Various, some-
times stormy,
sometimes dry,
sometimes wet,
uncertain.
The Sun anil
Moon.
Weather according
to the configura-
tions made at the
time.
Accordingtoother
influences of
the stars.
Observe other
configurations,
According to as.
t
pects with tin
sun and moon.
271
A TABLE OF THE DIGNITIES, FORTITUDES, AND DEBI-
LITIES OF THE SEVEN PLANETS.
Essential Dignities.
A planet in his own house,
or mutual reception by
house, shall have digni-
ties
In exaltation, or reception >
by exaltation 3
In triplicity 3
Debilities.
In detriment 5
In fall 4
The Quarters of Heaven which the Signs signify.
<Y> East Si E. and by N. t E. and by S.
& West n W. and by S. ~ W. and by N.
© North ill N. and by E. X N. and by W.
Vf South & S. and by E. np, S. and by W.
The Quarters of Heaven which the Houses signify.
First House, East Seventh House, West.
Second House, N. E. by E. Eighth House, S. W. by S
Third House, N. N. E. Ninth House, S. S. W.
Fourth House, North. Tenth House, South.
Fifth House, N. W.by W. Eleventh House, S. E. by S.
Sixth House, W. N. W. Twelfth House, S. S. E.
272 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
CHOICE ASTROLOGICAL SECRETS,
From rare and valuable Authors.
When flj^ercurp is in the tenth house, not impedite (or afflicted),
the child then born will be mighty, wise, and a great philosopher.
In the first beginning of any sickness, or at the time of a question
for the state of a sick person, if the moon be corrupt or afflicted of
£aturn in the three first degrees of Scorpio, it betokens death.
Hermes says, that an evil planet in Cancer doth threaten short life
and continual sickness to the mother of the child then born.
According to Taisnier, an evil planet in Hco doth show or betoken
short life to the father of the child then born.
They will have the palsy, or be so that they cannot move themselves,
or will be given to tremble, in whose nativities the moon is in an
angle with gatutn, ^aturn then being under the beams of the gun,
by which he becomes in combustion.
When unfortunate planets are in angles, and the 0un or moon ap-
plies to them corporeally, or by opposition, it signifies that the party
then born will be either crook-backed, or will halt ; or it signifies
the destruction or loss of some member, especially if the moon be with
the Dragon'e 3Tau\ in these signs <y, 8 , ©, n^, or yp> chiefly when
in the beginning or end of the sign.
For curing diseases of the stone or gravel, the ancient learned did
engrave on a plate oC copper the figure of a scorpion, in the hour of
£aturn; the third face of |[quarlu,0 arising with gaturn therein.
For the gout, they made it under the sign ipisccs; and for the help-
ing or bettering of the memory, they made a ring of pure gold,
wherein was enclosed a diamond under the conjunction of £aturn
and Kupiter in ^[riC0.
When the sign of the sixth house is Hibra and tl
r
ar0 in the same
house, it signifies grief and pain of the eyes.
273
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. X,
THE SIGNIFICATION OF THE TWELVE CELESTIAL SIGNS,
IN NATIVITIES AND HORARY QUESTIONS.
On the earth's orbit see the various signs :—
Mark where the sun, our year completing, shines :
First the bright Ram his languid ray improves ;
Next, glaring wat'ry, through the Bull he moves :
The am'rous Twins admit his genial ray;
Now, burning, through the Crab he takes his way j
The Lion, flaming, bears the solar power
;
The Virgin faints beneath the sultry shower :
Now the just Balance weighs his equal force,
The slimy Serpent swelters in his course
;
The sable Archer clouds his languid face
;
The Goat with tempests urges on his race ;
Now in the Water his faint beams appear;
And the cold Fishes end the circling year.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXIIL
T ARIES.
It is an equinoctial, diurnal, cardinal, moveable, masculine, hot
and dry eastern sign, of the fiery triplicity, choleric, bestial, intem-
perate, and violent.
It endows the native with a dry body, lean and spare, of a middle
stature, strong-limbed, big-boned ; oval visage, sharp piercing sight,
black eyebrows, thick, full, well-set shoulders, long indifferent neck,
red or sandy hair ; of a brown swarthy complexion.
T
274 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY,
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXIV.
b TAURUS.
^Taurus is a cold, earthy, dry, feminine, melancholy, and nocturnal,
southern sign, bestial and furious.
It denotes a short, strong, full, well-set person, and, when provoked,
as furious as the bull ; a large and broad forehead, big face, great
eyes, large wide mouth, thick lips, gross hands, and uncomely
black hair, and sometimes curled, of a brown and swarthy com-
plexion.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXV.
n GEMINI.
Gemini is a sign hot and moist, aerial, diurnal, human, western,
double-bodied, masculine, aud of the airy triplicity.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 275
It gives a tali and upright stature, straight and well-made body,
and complexion somewhat sanguine, but not clear ; the arms are
generally long, the hands and feet are short and fleshy, a curious
hazel eye, dark or blackish hair, a strong active body, of a ready
understanding and good fancy.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXVI.
® CANCER.
Cancer, is a sign cold and moist, phlegmatic, liquid, feminine,
nocturnal, and moveable, the summer solstice, and the watery tripli-
city.
It represents one of a middle stature, the upper part of the body
big, strong, and well set, round visage, and indifferently handsome
complexion ; sometimes wan, pale, and sickly ; mean eyes, and dark
brown hair.
T 2
276 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXVII.
SI LEO.
Heo is a sign hot and dry, choleric, masculine, and diurnal ; bestial,
barren, and commanding ; eastern, and the second of the fiery tripli-
city.
It gives a large full body, above the middle size, broad and well-
set shoulders, but narrow sides ;
yellow or flaxen hair, much thereof
and curling ; a great round head, and large eyes, yet quick-sighted,
and of a fierce and terrifying countenance ; of a ruddy, high, and
sanguine colour ; a strong, active, valiant, and courageous person.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXVIH.
iijl VIRGO.
(UtrfiO is an earthy, barren, cold, melancholy, feminine, southern,
nocturnal sign, and the second of the earthy triplicity.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 277
It denotes a person of a mean height, slender stature, but very
neat and decently composed, dark brown or black hair, round visage,
not very beautiful, yet well favoured, a small shrill voice, all the
members inclining to brevity, and signifies the person is witty, dis-
creet, of a pleasant conversation, very studious, and given to all kinds
of learning.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXIX.
~ LIBRA.
libra is a cardinal, equinoctial, moveable, masculine, diurnal,
sanguine, hot and moist, human, and western sign, and of the airy
trigon.
It represents the person to be of an indifferently tall and upright
stature, and of a neat proportion, more slender than gross ; of a round
lovely visage ; a sanguine ruddy complexion in youth, but in old age
it generally brings spots or pimples, or a deep red colour, in the face;
the hair yellowish, or sandy flaxen.
278 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXX.
rn SCORPIO.
Scorpio is a phlegmatic, watery, feminine, northern, fixed, and
nocturnal sign.
It gives the native a strong able body, the face somewhat broad or
square, the complexion swarthy or muddy, sad brown or black hair,
with plenty thereof and curling, the body hairy, and the neck thick
and short, and generally a squat well-set person.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXXI.
t SAGITTARIUS.
This is a hot and dry, fiery, choleric, easterly, common, masculine,
and bicorporal sign, and is the last of the fiery triplicity.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 279
It denotes a person somewhat above the middle size, one of a well-
favoured countenance ; the visage is somewhat long, but full and
fresh coloured, sometimes of a sun-burnt complexion, light brown
or chestnut-coloured hair, a strong able body, and of a comely pro-
portion.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXXII.
Vf CAPRICORN.
Capricorn is a cold and dry, feminine, nocturnal, earthy, melan-
choly, cardinal, moveable, solstitial, domestic, southern, and four-
footed sign.
It gives one of an indifferent stature, not very tall ; his body is dry
and spare, of a long, lean, and slender visage ; his chin is long and
narrow, thin beard, with dark brown or black hair; the neck long
and small ; the breasts are but narrow ; the person generally inclines
to brevity, with a disposition collected, witty, and subtle.
280 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY*
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXXIII.
~ AQUARIUS.
This is an aerial, sanguine, rational, fixed, human, diurnal, san-
guine, masculine, hot and moist sign, western, and the last of the airy
triplicity.
It personates one of a thick, well-set, and comely stature, well
composed, but not very tall ; the visage somewhat long, but fleshy
;
a sanguine and moderately clear complexion, bright and fair or dark
ilaxen hair, soft and clear skin.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXXIV,
K PISCES.
$Pt0ee0is a nocturnal, watery, cold and moist, phlegmatic, femi-
nine, wintry, common, bicorporal, northern, idle, effeminate,
sickly, fruitful sign, and of the watery trisjon,
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 281
The person signified hereby is of a low and short stature, an ill-
composed body, the face rather large, of a white or pale com-
plexion, the body fleshy or swelling, rather stooping when walking,
and holding down the head.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XL
OF THE PROPERTIES AND INFLUENCES OF THE SUN,
MOON, AND PLANETS,
And, first, of the Georgium Sidus.
# GEORGIUM SIDUS.
The Ceorgium @itJU0 is now considered the most elevated, though
not the largest, of all the planets, approaching nearest to the starry
firmament.
He has no houses allotted him, but participates in the nature of
the malevolent planet, Saturn, in the highest degree ; and is there-
fore equally unfortunate, according to the place in which he falls, in
the radical figure.
f? SATURN.
Saturn is in nature cold and dry, in consequence of being so far
removed from the heat of the sun, abounds in moist vapours, and is
a melancholy, earthy, solitary, diurnal, masculine, malevolent planet
:
his effects, when lord of the ascendant, or principal ruler of ageniture,
with all his qualities, are as follow : —He produces a middle stature,
with a dark, swarthy, or pale complexion, small leering black eyes,
lean face, broad forehead, lowering brow, thick nose and lips, his
head stooping, large ears, broad shoulders, black or brown hair, thin
beard, with small lean thighs and legs. If this planet be well digni-
fied in the nativity, the native will be of an acute and penetrating
imagination, reserved in conversation and austere in his conduct,
very spare both in speaking and giving, grave in disputing, and patient
282 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
in labour, very anxious and solicitous to obtain the goods of fortune,
constant in his attachments to wife or friend, but severe and cruel in
prejudice or resentment against any one. But, if this planet should
be ill posited at the time of birth, the native will be naturally heavy
and lumpish, sordid, envious, covetous, mistrustful, cowardly, slug-
gish, outwardly dissembling, artful, false, stubborn, malicious, per-
petually dissatisfied with himself, and all about him ; and conse-
quently of a most evil nature. When Saturn is oriental, the human
stature will be shorter than usual, and, when occidental, thin, lean,
and less hairy. If his latitude be north, the native will be hairy and
corpulent ; if without any latitude, he will be of large bones and
muscles ; and if meridional, fat, smooth, and fleshy : in his first sta-
tion, strong and well favoured ; and, in his second station, weak and
ill-favoured. These remarks likewise hold good with respect to the
other planets.
It is also to be remarked, that when Saturn is significator of tra-
velling, he indicates long and laborious journeys, unfortunate adven-
tures, and dangerous imprisonment. He is friendly to 3Iupiter, €>oI,
and 3$ercur2 ; but at enmity with fl@ars, ©ertujj, and the {goon.
It should also be remembered that this planet is of a destructive
nature, and debilitated at times ; for, whenever he or $@aw rises at
a birth, in a debilitated state, it is more than probable that the child
dies that year, unless Jupiter or Venus interpose with their friendly
influences strongly in the sign,
% JUPITER.
3iupitei is a diurnal masculine planet, temperately hot and moist,
airy and sanguine. When he rules over a nativity, or is lord of the
geniture, he gives an erect and tall stature, a handsome rosy com-
plexion, oval visage, high forehead, large grey eyes, soft thick brown
hair, a well-set comely body, short neck, large wide chest, strong
and well-proportioned thighs and legs, with long feet ; he is sober
and manly in speech, and in his conversation grave and commanding,
and will give most excellent manners and disposition to the native.
If well dignified at the time of his birth, he will be in general faithful
and prudent, honourably aspiring after noble actions, fair in his deal-
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 283
ings, desirous of serving all men, just, honest, and religious, kind and
affectionate to his family and friends, charitable and liberal, wise and
prudent, hating all mean and sordid actions* But, if Jupiter be debi-
litated and afflicted at the time of birth, he then indicates a profligate
careless disposition, of mean abilities and shallow understanding ; of
no religious principle, addicted to evil company, easily persuaded to
folly and extravagance, and a tyrant in his family. If this planet be
eastward at the birth, the native will be more sanguine and ruddy,
with larger eyes, and more corpulent. If occidental in a feminine
geniture, it gives a most fair and lovely complexion to the female,
her stature somewhat shorter, the hair light brown or approaching
to flaxen, but thin round the temples and forehead.
When he is significator of journeys, he denotes pleasant travelling,
good success, safety, health, and mirth.
He is friendly with gaturn, gol, Glenufl. $9ercurpt and Huna, but
at enmity with $$ar0.
$ MARS.
£$ar0 is a masculine, nocturnal, malevolent planet ; in nature hot
and dry, choleric and fiery : the lesser infortune, author of quarrels,
war, and battle. When this planet presides at a birth, it renders a
strong well-set body, of short stature, but large bones, rather lean
than fat, a brown ruddy complexion, red, sandy, flaxen, or light brown
hair, sharp hazel eyes, round face, bold countenance, active, and
fearless. If well dignified, the native will be of a courageous disposi-
'tion, without fear or danger ; hazarding his life on all occasions; of
no reason in war or contention ; unwilling to submit to any superior,
and will endeavour to triumph over his enemy, and yet be prudent in
the management of his private concerns. If the planet be ill posited,
and afflicted with cross aspects, the party will then grow up a trum*
peter of his own fame and consequence, without decency or honesty,
a lover of malicious quarrels and affrays, prone to wickedness and
slaughter, and in danger of committing murder, of robbing on the
highway, of becoming a thief, traitor, or incendiary ; of a turbulent
spirit, obscene, rash, inhuman, and treacherous, fearing neither God
nor man, given up to every species of fraud, violence, cruelty, and
284 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
oppression. If the planet be oriental at the nativity, the native will
be above the middle stature, very hairy, and of a clearer complexion.
If occidental, the native will be short, of a more ruddy complexion,
a small head, with yellow hair, and a dry constitution. He is friendly
only with ©eniw, and at enmity with all the other planets. In jour-
neys, he portends danger of robbery, loss of life, and all the other
perils attendant on the traveller.
<L THE MOON.
The CK^oon is feminine, nocturnal, cold, moist, and phlegmatic.
Her influence, in itself, is neither fortunate nor unfortunate but as she
happens to fall in with the configurations of the other planets, and is
then either malevolent or otherwise, as those aspects happen to be
;
and under these circumstances she becomes the most powerful of all
the heavenly bodies in her operations, by reason of her proximity to
the earth and the swiftness of her motion, by which she receives and
transmits to us the light and influence of all the superiors, by her con-
figurations with them. When she has rule in a nativity, she produces
a full stature, with fair and pale complexion, round face, grey eyes,
lowering brow, very hairy short arms, thick hands and feet, smooth
body, inclined to be fat, corpulent, -and phlegmatic. If she be im-
peded of the mn at the time of birth, she leaves a blemish on or near
the eye ; if she be impeded in succedent houses, the blemish will be
near the eye ; but, if unfortunate in angles, and with nebulous fixed
stars, the blemish will fall in the eye, and will affect the sight. If
she be well placed or dignified at the nativity, the native will be of
soft engaging manners and disposition, a lover of the polite arts, and
of an ingenious imagination, fond of novelties, and given to travelling
or rambling about the country ; unstable, providing only for the
present time, and careless of futurity ; timorous, prodigal, and easily
affrighted, but loving peace, and desiring to live free from the cares
and anxieties of the world. If the native be brought up to a mecha-
nical employment, he will be frequently tampering with a variety of
•
different trades, but pursuing none of the in long together. If the
moon be unfortunute at the birth, the native will then be slothful,
indolent, and of no forecast, given up to a drunken, disorderly,
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 285
beggarly life, hating labour, or any kind of business or employment.
When oriental, she inclineth more to corpulence; but, when occi-
dental, rather lean, awkward, and ill-formed.
She is in friendship with Jupiter, #oJ, C3enu0, and 0$ercurg, but
at enmity with gatumand SJ(9ar0.
? VENUS.
ajenufl is a feminine planet, temperately cold and moist, nocturnal,
the lesser fortune, author of mirth and conviviality, alluring to pro-
creation and to the propagation of the species. When she ascends
at a nativity, she gives a handsome but not tall stature ; complexion
fair and lovely, bright sparkling eyes, of a dark hazel or black, the
face round, regular, smooth, and engaging; the hair bright brown,
hazel, or chestnut, shining, and plentiful ; the body regular and well
proportioned, and of a neat, smart, and airy disposition ;
generally
with dimples in the cheeks or chin, and often in both; the eye wan-
dering, and naturally amorous ; in motion light and nimble ; in voice
soft, sweet, and agreeable ; inclined to amorous conversation and early
arguments in love. If well dignified at the time of birth, the native
will be of a quiet, even, and friendly disposition, naturally inclined
to neatness, loving mirth and cheerfulness, and delighting in music ;
amorous and prone to venery, though truly virtuous, if a woman; yet
she will be given to jealousy, even without cause. If this planet be
weak and afflicted by cross aspects, then will the native be riotous,
profligate, abandoned to evil company and lewd women, regardless
of reputation or character, a frequenter of taverns, night-houses, and
places of ill fame ; delighting in all the incitements to incestuous and
adulterous practices; in principle, a mere atheist, wholly given* up to
the brutal passions of unbridled and uncultivated nature. If (&tnU8
be oriental at the time, the stature will be tall and straight; but, if
occidental, short and stooping, though comely and well favoured. If
she be significator in a journey, and well dignified, she portends much
mirth, pleasure, and success, and promises safety and good fortune
by the way.
She is friendly with Jupiter, Spans, flPercurg, and the sun and moon
;
but at enmity with gatum.
28G THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
$ MERCURY.
$9ercurp is the least of all the planets ; in nature cold, dry, and
melancholy ; but author of the most pointed wit, ingenuity, and
invention. He is occasionally both masculine and feminine, and
lucky or unlucky, as his position in the heavens may happen to be.
When he is in conjunction with a masculine planet, he is masculine
;
when with a feminine planet, feminine; good and fortunate, when
joined with the fortunes ; but evil and mischievous, when in con-
junction with malevolent aspects.
When he governs a nativity, he denotes a tall, straight, thin, spare
body, narrow face, and deep forehead, long straight nose, eyes neither
black nor grey, thin lips and chin, with but little beard ; brown com-
plexion, and hazel or chestnut-coloured hair ; the arms, hands, and
fingers, long and slender ; and thighs, legs, and feet, the same. If
orientally posited, the stature will be shorter, with sandy hair, and
sanguine complexion, somewhat sunburnt; the limbs and joints
large and well set, with small grey eyes. But, if occidental, the
complexion will be quite sallow, lank body, small slender limbs,
hollow eyes, of a red cast, and of a dry constitution. If $®ettuxv be
well dignified at the time of birth, the person will inherit a strong
subtle imagination and retentive memory ; likely to become an
excellent orator and logician, arguing with much eloquence of speech,
and with strong powers of persuasion ;
—is generally given to the
attainment of all kinds of learning ; an encourager of the liberal arts
;
of a sharp, witty, and pleasant conversation ; of an unwearied fancy,
and curious in the search of all natural and occult knowledge ; with
an inclination to travel or trade into foreign countries. If brought
up in the mercantile line, will be ambitious of excelling in his mer-
chandise, and will most times prove successful in obtaining wealth.
But, if he be evilly posited, or debilitated, then the native will be-
tray a disposition to slander and abuse the character of every one,
without distinction ; he will be a boaster, a flatterer, a sycophant
busybody, a tale-bearer given to propagate idle tales and false sto-
ries ;
pretending to all kinds of knowledge, though a mere idiot in
his intellectual faculty, and incapable of acquiring any solid or sub-
ART OP FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 287
stantial learning ; apt to boast of great honesty, yet very addicted to
mean and petty thievery.
He is friendly with all the planets except £$ar0.
© Sol.
The sun is in nature masculine, diurnal, and dry, but more tem-
perate than $$ar0, and, if well dignified, is always found equivalent to
one of the fortunes. When he presides at a birth, the native is gene-
rally of a large, bony, trong body, of a sallow sun-burnt complexion,
large high forehead, with light or sandy curling hair, but inclined to
be soon bald ; a fine, full, piercing, hazel eye ; and all the limbs
straight and well-proportioned. If he be well dignified, the native
will be of a noble, magnanimous, and generous disposition ; high
minded, but very humane; of a large and benevolent heart, affable,
and courteous ; in friendship faithful and sincere ; in promises slow,
but punctual. The solar man is not of many words ; but, when he
speaks, it is with confidence, and to the purpose: he is usually
thoughtful, secret, and reserved ; his deportment is stately and majes-
tic ; a lover of sumptuousness and magnificence ; and possesses a mind
far superior to any sordid, base, or dishonourable practices. If the
mm be unfortunate, then will the native be born of a mean and loqua-
cious disposition ;
proud and arrogant ; disdaining all his inferiors,
and a sycophant to his superiors ; of shallow understanding and im-
perfect judgment; restless, troublesome, and domineering; of no
gravity in words or soberness in actions ; prone to mischievousness,
austerity, uncharitableness^ cruelty, and ill-nature.
He is friendly with Jupiter, C@ar#, CKenufl, ^ercurg, and the S^oon,
but is constantly at variance with gaturn.
8 DRAGON'S HEAD, AND $ DRAGON'S TAIL.
The head of the Dragon is masculine, partaking of the nature both
of 3fupiter and JHemi0 ; but the SDrafion'fl ^Tail is feminine, and of a
directly opposite quality tothe head. These are neither signs nor con-
stellations, but are only the nodes, or points wherein the ecliptic is
intersected by the orbits of the planets, and particularly by that of the
moon, making with it angles of five degrees and eighteen minutes.
288 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
One of these points looks northward, the moon beginning then to have
a northern latitude ; and the other points southward, where she com-
mences her southern latitude. The head of the SDragon is considered
of a benevolent nature, and almost equivalent to one of the fortunes,
and, when in aspect with evil planets, is found to lessen their malignant
effects in a great degree. But the Dragon'0 3Tail will be always found
of a most evil and unhappy tendency, not only tending to the male-
volence of unfortunate aspects, when joined with them, but lessening
considerably the beneficial influences of the fortunes, and other good
aspects, whenever found in conjunction with them.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XII.
EXPLANATION OF SOME TECHNICAL WORDS AND TERMS
OF ART, USED IN ASTROLOGY, WHICH EVERY STUDENT
OUGHT WELL TO UNDERSTAND.
Application signifieth the approach of two planets together, either
by conjunction or aspect, and is of three kinds : the first is when a
planet swift in motion applies to one of a slower progress, which is
termed a direct application; the second kind is formed by two
retrograde planets, and this is termed a retrograde application ; the
third kind is occasioned by one planet going direct in motion, and
meeting another planet that is retrograde ; and these two last are
deemed evil applications. Observe, the superior planets never apply
to the inferior, but by a retrograde motion ; whereas the inferior pla-
nets apply both ways.
Retrogradation implies an apparent motion in the planets, whereby
they seem to go backwards in the ecliptic, and to move towards the
antecedent signs, viz. from east to west, contrary to the succession of
signs and degrees of the zodiac,'as, out of ten degrees, into nine, eight,
seven, &c. This is in appearance produced by the opposite motion
of the earth to that of the planets.
Combustion.—A planet is said to be combust when situated within
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. "289
eight degrees, thirty minutes, of the body of the sun, either before or
after him.
Cazimi, is when a planet is situated in the heart of the gun, and is
only seventeen minutes before or after the gun. All authors agree
that a planet in Cazimi is fortified thereby, and is of greater efficacy ;
whereas a planet combust is of a malignant nature.
Sun's Beams.—A planet is always considered under the sun's beams,
until he is fully elongated fifteen degrees before and after his body.
Void of course, is when a planet is separated from the body or
aspect of another planet, and does not during its continuance in that
sign form any aspect with any other. This most usually happens
with the moon ; and in practice it is observed, that if the significator
of the thing propounded be void of course, the business under con-
templation will not succeed, nor be attended with any satisfactory or
pleasing consequences.
Besieging, signifies a planet situated between the bodies of the two
malevolent planets, Saturn and £$arg.
Increasing in light, is when a planet is departing from the gun, or
the gun from a planet ; thus, the moon at her greatest distance from
the gun appears with the greatest degree of light, having her whole
orb illuminated.
Separation, is when two planets have been lately in partile con*
junction or aspect, and are just separated from it. The exact know-
ledge of every degree of the separations of these aspects is of the
utmost consequence in giving judgment upon varions important
occasions.
Frustration, is when a swift or light planet approaches to an aspect
with one more slow and ponderous, but, before it can approach
near enough to form that aspect, the weighty.planet is joined to some
other, by which the first aspect is frustrated.
Refranation, is when a planet, in direct motion, applies to an
aspect or conjunction with another planet, but, before they can
meet, becomes retrograde, and thus refrains to form the aspect ex-
pected.
Translation of light and virtue, is when a lighter planet separates
from a weighty one, and joins with another more ponderous, and is
u
290 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
effected in this manner : let Saturn be placed in sixteen degrees of
^.rie0, Jupiter in nine degrees, and C@ar0 in ten degrees of the same
sign ; here $9ar0 separates from a conjunction with Jupiter, and
translates the light and virtue of that planet to Saturn, to whom he
next applies. The effect of this in practice will be, that, if a matter
or thing be promised by Saturn, then whoever was represented by
0@ar0 shall procure all the assistance that the benevolent planet
Jupiter could possibly bestow, and translate it to Saturn, whereby
the business in hand would be the better effected, and the more hap-
pily concluded.
Reception, is when two planets that are significators in any ques-
tion or nativity are posited in each other's dignities, as the gun in
8rie0, and OB are in ILeo> which is a reception by houses, and is deemed
the most powerful and efficacious of all receptions. But reception
may be by exchange of exaltation, or triplicity, as Jupiter in 3rie0,
and the £un in dancer, is a deception by exaltation ; so ©emi0 in 3rie0,
and the 0un in t!Tauru0, is a reception by triplicity, if the question or
nativity happen by day. The use of these positions in practice is
considerable ; for, suppose the event of any question required be
denied by the aspects, or the significators be in no aspect with each
other, or it is doubtful what may happen from a quartile or opposi-
tion of the significators ;
yet, if the principal significators be found
in mutual reception, the thing desired will shortly come to pass,
and probably to the satisfaction and content of all the parties con-
cerned.
Peregrine, is when a planet is situated in a sign, or in such certain
degrees of a sign, where it has no essential dignities, either by house,
exaltation, or triplicity. In all questions of theft it is very material
to know the peregrine planet; for it has been uniformly found by
every regular professor of this science, that the thief may almost
constantly be discovered by the peregrine planet posited in an angle,
or in the second house.
Oriental and Occidental.—A planet, when oriental, rises before the
fsun ; and, when occidental, sets after him, and is seen above the hori-
zon after the eun is down ; consequently, when a planet is oriental,
it is posited in the east, and, when occidental, in the west.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 29
1
Direction, is when a planet moves according to the succession of
the signs, from west to east, or from <y* to g , from & to n ; and
out of five degrees, to six, seven, eight, and so forward. Direction
is also a calculation, whereby to find the time of any accident or
remarkable event, that will happen to a person who propounds a
question, or has his nativity cast. For instance, a person inquires
how long he may live, by the course of the planets at the time of
birth : having established the mn, moon, or ascendant, assignificators
of life, and £jjjtti8 or Saturn as promittors, or portentors of death, the
direction is a calculation of the length of time in which the signifi-
eators will be in meeting the promittor, and this resolves the ques-
tion.
Swift of Course, is when a planet moves farther than his mean
motion in twenty-four hours, and he is slow of course when he moves
less than his mean motion in the same portion of time.
Declination, is the distance a planet swerves either north or south,
from the equator or equinoctial line, in his circuit through the twelve
signs of the zodiac.
Right Ascension, is the number of degrees and minutes of the equi-
noctial line, reckoned from the beginning of 8rie0, and come to the
meridian with the eun, moon, star, or planet, or any portion of the
ecliptic.
Oblique ascension, is the degree and minute of the equinoctial line,
that comes to, or rises with, the degree of longitude of any star or
planet in the horizon ; or it is the degree of the equinoctial line that
comes to the horizon with any star or planet in an oblique sphere.
Oblique descension, is the degree of the equinoctial line that sets in
the horizon, with the degree of longitude of any star or planet in an
oblique sphere, making an oblique angle with the horizon.
Ascensional difference, is the distinction between the right and
oblique ascension of any star or planet, reckoned in the equator.
Circles of position, are circles passing through the common inter-
sections of the horizon and meridian, and through any degrees of the
ecliptic, or the centre of any star or other point in the heavens, and
are used for finding the situation or position of any star or planet.
Horoscope, is a figure or scheme of the twelve houses of heaves,,
u 2
292 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
wherein the planets and positions of the heavens are collected for
any given time, either for the purpose of calculating nativities, or
answering horary questions. It also signifies the degree or point of
the heavens rising above the eastern point of the horizon at any time
required.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXXV.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XIII.
FIGURE OF THE HOROSCOPE, OR TWELVE HOUSES OF
HEAVEN.
These twelve houses are each distinguished by their respective
figures, and are either angular, succedent, or cadent. The angular
houses are four, called the ascendant, mid-heaven or medium-cceli,
the seventh house, and the fourth or bottom of the heaven; these
are deemed the most powerful and most fortunate houses. The suc-
cedent houses are the eleventh, eighth, and fifth, and are ranked in
force and virtue to the angles. The third class, or cadent house, is
the third, twelfth, ninth, and sixth ; and is considered of the least
efficacy of them all.
\
293
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXXVI.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XIV.
DIRECTIONS FOR ERECTING A FIGURE OF THE HEAVENS,
AND PLACING THE PLANETS IN THE HOROSCOPE.
Authors differ in opinion with respect to the division of the circle
of the heavens ; but the method of dividing it by oblique as-
cension, as recommended by Ptolemy, and followed by Placidus, is
the most rational and correct way, and is now universally adopted.
The best way is to erect a figure by the globe, but for those who
are not in the possession of one, or who do not understand its use,
we shall explain the usual method of doing it, by a table of houses,
calculated for the latitude of London,
In erecting a figure of the heavens for any nativity, question, &c.
these three following things are to be attended to :
—
First, the year, month, day of the week, and the hour and minute
of thatcfay, either at the birth of a child, or a question propounded.
Secondly, to observe, in an ephemeris of the same year and day, the
rue place of the 0un, moon, and planets (which are given for noon
that day) ; and, thirdly, note what hour and minute in the table of
houses answer, or stand on the left hand, against the degree of
that sign the 0tm was in on that day at 12 o'clock : so, by looking in
294 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
those tables for the time answering to the 0111V0 place, and adding
that to the time of the day when the question was proposed, you
have your figure.
EXAMPLE.
We would eiect a figure of the heavens for Saturday, August the
28th, 1824, at nine hours, thirty minutes, a. m. that is, half-past
nine o'clock in the morning. To do this, I refer to the first column
on the right hand side of the ephemeris for August, and opposite the
28th day of the month, in the second column, which has 0's lon-
gitude printed at the top, I find 5, 4, 43, with the sign trji prefixed
at the side of the first row of figures. This indicates that the Bun,
at 12 o'clock that day, is in 5 degrees, 4 minutes, and 43 seconds of
the sign n% ; but the minutes, when less than thirty, may be re-
jected without any material error; and, when more than thirty, may
have as many minutes added to them as will make them up a de-
gree. We therefore turn to the table of houses, and in the page
entitled in rrji, we look for the column that has the sign rr£ at the
top, which is the third ; we seek for 5 degrees, and in the column of
the left side of it, under the title time from noon, we find it even
with 5 degrees, 10 hours, 27 min. The hours and minutes thus found
are to be added to the time or hour of the day when the figure is to
be erected ; unless it be exactly at noon, in which case, the places
of the sun, planets, and signs are to be set down exactly as they are
found in the ephemeris and table of houses ; but the present figure
being to be erected 2 hours and 30 minutes before 12 o'clock, we
must add this time, reckoning from noon the preceding day, to the
above 10 hours, 27 min., and, upon these two sums being added to-
gether, making above 24 hours, we subtract 24 from it, and the re-
mainder will give the degrees of each of the 12 signs, as then posited
upon the cusps of the horoscope ; thus
—
Hours Min,
Time answering to 5 degrees of nji . 10 27
Time from noon the preceding day , 21 30
Added together makes . ',M 57
Subtract . . . 24
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 295
Which must be done in every figure, if, after addition, it makes
more than 24 hours; but if less than 24, take the amount, which in
this case, after subtraction, is 7 hours, 57 min. ; and enter the table
of houses in the column under the title time from noon with this re-
mainder ; but, not finding 7 hours, 57 min., we look for the nearest
to it, which is 7 hours, 56 min., and in a line with this in the next
column, on the right hand, we find 27, and, looking at the top of the
column, we see it entered 10th house, ©, signifying that © must
be placed on the cusp of the 10th house, with 27 degrees affixed to
it. This done, we must refer to the next column in rotation on the
right hand, and in the same line with the 27th degree of ©, we find
1 deg. 42 min., and, looking up the column as before, we find ?$.
placed beneath Si, and 11th house at top ; which signifies that 1 deg.
42 min. of ttji, must be placed on the 11th house. We follow the
same rule with the next column, when we find 29 deg. 14 min., and,
looking to the top, we find rt£ 12 ; we accordingly place 29 deg.
14 min. on the cusp of the 12th house. We then look to the next
column, when we find 20 deg. 26 min., and at the top the word
ascendant with the sign s± affixed, which signifies that 20 deg. 26
min. of ^s must occupy the first house or ascendant, which we place
accordingly. We then look to the next column, and, even with the
preceding figures, we find 16 deg. 36 min. We then look up the
column, and find nt placed underneath £s, and 2d house at top.
We accordingly place r\\ 16 deg. 36 min. on the cusp of the 2d house.
This done, we refer to the last column, and even with the former
numbers find 19, 14, and, looking up the column as before, find $
placed beneath \t\, with 3d house at top, which indicates that 19
deg. 14 min. of $ must be placed on the cusp of the 3d house.
Thus the six oriental houses are obtained, with the degrees of each
sign then rising upon them : but here the learner must particularly
note, that the last six signs are always opposite to the first six, as
follows :
—
Houses Opposite Signs Opposite
1st is the 7th to «B \*T
2d 8th r
3d 9th trji V
29$ THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
4th is the 10th to ^ is ^
5th 11th 8 m
6th 12th n f
Thus the 10th house is opposite to the 4th, and the 4th to the
10th, the 11th to the 5th, and the 5th to the 11th, and so of the
rest ; the use of which is, that if on the cusp or the 10th house you
find the sign ©, then on the cusp of the 4th house you must place
he sign v5>, and whatever degree and minute the sign «3 possesses
the cusp of the 10th house, the same degree and minute of the sign
yp must be placed on the cusp of the 4th house. The same rule
must be observed with respect to all the other houses and signs,
which is universal, and always holds true. For example, we shall
here subjoin them as the several signs oppose each other in this
figure, as follows :—
•
Beg. Min, Houses Deg. Min .
On the cusp of the 10th is 27 <© opposite 4th 27 i#
on the Uth 1 42 m 1 42 X
on the 12th 29 14 % 6 29 14 X
on the 1st 20 26 jTU 7 20 26 T
on the 2d 16 36 «R 8 16 36 8
on the 3d 19 14 t 9 19 14 n
And thus are the twelve houses completely occupied with the twelve
signs of the zodiac, with the degrees ascending at the precise time
of erecting the figure.
Having so far succeeded, the next thing is to place the min, moon,
and planets in the figure, agreeably to their position at this time in
the heavens, and this is to be done by the help of the right hand
page of the ephemeris, of which White's will be found the best. In
this ephemeris their places are calculated for noon every day ; but, as
this figure is to be erected for 2 hours 30 minutes before noon, we
observe how far they have moved from noon on the preceding day,
as follows :
—
Deg. Min. Sec.
<gim'0 place at noon, August 28 . 5 3 43 rf£
-—— on the — 27 . . 4 5 41 1^
58 2
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 297.
Which shows his motion to have been 58 min. 2 sec. in the 24
hours. We therefore say, by the rule of proportion, if 24 hours give
58 min. 2 sec, what will 1 hour give ? It gives near two and a half
minutes ; consequently, 2 hours 30 min. will give near 6] min.
This 6 min. taken from 5 deg. 3 min. 43 sec. (as being before noon)
leaves for the 0tm'0 place 4 deg. 58 min. of the sign r»g. On the
above day you find the moon'0 place at noon to be ^ 29 deg. 19
min., and on the day before (viz. the 27th) ^ 14 deg. 56 min.,
which shows her daily motion to be 14 deg. 23 min., which makes
her hourly motion about 36 min., and her place will be found to be
27 deg. 49 min. of the sign £h ; the same day you find *tatum'0
place to be 7 deg. 25 min. of n , and, as he moves 3 min. a day, or
about 8 sec. per hour, his true place will be about 7 deg. 24 min. of
n on the same day: Jupiter will be found to be in 2 deg. 14 min.
of the sign ft, and is found to move 13 min. per day ; consequently,
its place will be about 2 deg. 13 min. of ft. On the above day you
find fl$at0 in 12 deg. 53 min. of the sign m» which moves at the rate
of 39 min. daily, and will be in about 12 deg. 49 min. of n|. 2to*
nus is in 13 deg. 17 min. of n£ on that day at noon, and is found to
have moved ! deg. 15 mjn. since noon on the preceding day, or about
3 min. an hour ; therefore her true place will be found to be 13 deg.
9 min of rr&. £|?ercurg'0 place at noon is deg. 13 min. of ^, and
is found to move 1 deg. 19 min. per day, or rather more than 3 min.
per hour, and his place will be about 4 min. of =«:.
The planets being thus entered, we next refer to the top of the
right-hand page of the ephemeris for the column entitled the moon's
node, which is called the dragon's head, and we find on the 25th day
of the month it is in 6 deg. 31 min. of yp ; but, as it moves back-
ward about 3 min. per day, I deduct 9 min. to bring it to the 28th
of August, and its place will then be 6 deg. 22 min. of yp. We
therefore enter it in the 3d house under the sign yp , and, as the place
of the dragon's tail is always opposite to the dragon's head, we place
it with the same degrees on the opposite sign, which in this figure
falls on the 9th house, as being opposite to the third.
This figure is now complete, except putting in the part of fortune,
'298 THE ASTllOLOGEIl OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
which is the distance of the moon's place from the sun's* added to
the ascendant. There are many methods of taking it, but the usual
one is as follows : —Add the ascendant to the moon's place, and from
their sum subtract the sun's place, and the remainder will be the
place of fortune. Example :
—
Signs Deg. Min.
The ascendant is in 20 deg. 26 min. of ^ or 6 20 26
The moon's place in 27 deg. 49 min. of j± or 6 27 49
Their sum . . 13 18 15
The sun's place in 4 deg. 58 min. of tiji or 5 4 58
Gives the place of the part of fortune 8 13 17
Which signifies 8 signs, 13 deg. 17 min., that is 13 deg. 17 min. of
the sign /. When subtraction cannot be made, 12 signs must be
added.
PREDICTION OF THE CELEBRATED WILLIAM LILY,
RELATIVE TO THE FRENCH NATION.
This celebrated astrologer thus prophesied of the French nation
in the year 1626 :
—" And it shall come to pass, when the king and
people of France have committed an act of great and flagrant trea-
chery towards this land, that the Lord shall avenge his faithful peo-
ple with vengeance a hundred fold. For he shall send an angel of
dissension among the perfidious Gauls ; they shall massacre each
other for years, and prey upon their own flesh. The king shall
seek an asylum he shall not find, and his desolate family shall beg
their bread of their ancient enemies."
It scarcely need be hinted, how plainly this prediction has been
in every part verified.
* So far as the sun is from the ascendant, so far is the moon from the part of
fortune.
299
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XV
NEW TABLES OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 Degrees, 32 Minutes,
Calculated expressly for the present Occasion.
© in t; . in «.
Time 1
from 1
.
11 12 A seen. 2 3
lime
from
10 11 12 Ascen.
2J
3
Noon, P^ X Ti © U "U Noon. 8 n 2b a
1
H. M. gr
9 2 2
Gr. M. Si"
12 3
H. M. gr gr
17
Gr. M. gr gr
26 42 ! 52 9 16 31 4 28
41 )
10 23 27 23 18 1 55 1 10 lb 17 11 5 29
71 2 .1 24 28 2 14 4 1 59 2 1
1
19 17 51 6 jy.
1 J
3 12 25 28 48 15 5 2 3 3 12 19 18 31 7 1
15 4 13 25 29 21 15 6 o 7
l
4 13 20 19 12 8 2
18 5 14 26 0& 1 lCj 7 2 11 5 14 2 1
19 52 9 2
22 6 15 27 40 17 8 2 15 6 15 22 20 32 9 3
26 7 16 28 1 20 18 8 2 19 7 16 22 21 13 10 4
29 8 17 2<) o 18 9 2 23 8 17 23 2! 54 1 1 5
33 9 18 -3 o 39 19 >0 o 26 9 18 24 22 35 1
1
6
37 10 19 1 3 19 20 11 2 30 10 19 25 23 16 12 7
40 ! 1 20 1 3 59 20 12 2 34 n 20 25 23 57 13 8
44 12 22 2 4 38 21 13 2 38 12 21 26 24 38 14 9
48 13 23 3 5 17 22 14 2 42 13 22 21 25 19 14 10
51 14 24 4 5 57 23 15 2 46 14 23 28 26 15 H
55 15 25 5 6 36 23 15 2 50 15 24 29 26 42 H» 12
59 \6 26 6 7 15 24 |6 2 54 16 25 29 27 24 17 12
1 3 17 27 6 7 55 25 17 2 58 17 26 SI 28 6 18 13
1 6 18 28 7 8 35 26 18 3 2
18J26
1 28 47 18 14
1 10 19*9 8 9 14 26 19 3 6 19 27 2 29 30 19 15
1 14 20 n 9 y 53 27 19 3 10 20 28 3 0rr£i3 20 16
1 18 21 1 10 10 34 28 20 3 14 21 29 3 55 21 17
1 21 22 2 10 n 12 28 21 3 18 22 ~r 4 1 37 22 18
1 25 23 3 1
1
n 52 29 22 3 22 23 1 5 2 20 22 19
l
! 29 -24} 4 12 12 32 na 23 3 26 24 2 6 3 2 23 20
!
1 33 25 5 13 13 52 1 24 3 31 25 3 7 3 46 24 21
1 36 »6 6 14 13 12 1 25 3 35 26 4 7 4 29 25 22
1 40J27 7 14 14 32 2 25 3 39j27 5 8 5 12 26 23
1 4 4;2S 7[I5 15 12 3^26 3 43f2S 6 9 5 55 27 24
1
48J29
8 16 15 51 4 27 3 47)29 7 10 6 39 27 25
v 1 52 30 9|»7 16 31 4 28 3 51(30 P li 7 22 28 25;
300
NEW TABLES OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 Degrees* 32 Minutes.
© in n
Time
from
Noon.
10
i
II
H. M.'g
51
55
4
8
12
16
21
25
29
33 10
38 1 I
4212
46JI3
51J14
55 15
5916
3 17
21 21
25;22
29J23
34i24
38J25
43|26
47(27
51 28
5629
!
30
gr
Ascen.
7
8
8
9
ujio
1511
IG 1
1
12
13
14
14
20115
21 16
17
17
18
19
20
20
£1
22
23
23
24
25
26
26
27
28
29
30
28 25
29 26
27
28
29
"l
1
2
3
4
22
~6
50
3-1
18
3
47
31
16
1
46
31
16
l| 9
46 10
3111
.712
4J13
49J14
35114 14
20; 15
6! 16
51
37
25
9
55
41
27
13
0i24
20 20
© in
Time
from
LO
l
] 12 Ascen. 2
1
3'
Noon. a Si "Ji u ."\»
m
H. M. gr V g r
S r - ID. g r
1
6 o G 0'
2424;
6 4 1 7 7 47 2525^
6 9 2 8 8 1 33 26J26:
6 13 3 D 2 I927|27|
6 17 4 10 10 3 5 27|28
6 22 5 11 10 3 51 28 29
6 26 612 11 4 27 29 t
6 31 713 12 5 23 m. 1
6 35 8 14 13 6 9 1 2
6 39 9 15 14 6 55 2 3
6 41 10 16 15 7 40 2 4
6 48 11 16 10 8 26 3 4
6 52 1217 10 9 12 4 5
6 57 13 18 '7 9 57 5 6
7 1 1419 18 10 41 6 7
7 5 15 20 19 1
1
28 7 8
7 9 16 21 20 12 14 8 9
7 14 1722 2 1 12 59 8 10
7 18 18 23 22 13 45 9 11
7 22 19 24 22 14 30 10 12
7 27 2025 23 15 14 1
1
13
7 31 2126 24 15 59 12 14
7 35 22 27 25 16 44 13 15
7 39 23 28 26 17 29 13 16
7 44 24 20 27 18 14 14 17
7 48 •25
w 28 18 58 15 18
7 51 26 28 19 42 16 19
7 56 27 o 29 20 26 17 20
8 28 3 -r-
21 10 18 20
8 5 29 4 1 21 54 18 2 1
8 9 30 5 2 22 38 19 22
301
NEW TABLES OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 5 I Degrees, 32 Minutes.
in ft. in n£.
Time
from
10 11 12 A:::sn. 2 3
Time
from
10 1 1 l-j Ascen. 2
Noon. ^ !TU
-A- o. 1*1 * Noon.
g r
.A.
gr
2
g'
26
HI /
H. M. gr gr S' gr. in. oT &r H. M. gr. m. K*
8 9 2 22 38 19 22 10 8 13 30 13 20
8 13 1 5 3 23 22 20 23 10 12 ] 3 26 14 9 14 21
8 17 2 6 3 24 5 2l 24 10 16 2 4 27 14 49 15 22
8 21 3 7 4 24 48 22 25 10 20 3 5 28 15 29 16 23
8 25 4 8 5 25 32 23 26 10 24 4 5 29 16 9 16 24
8 29 5 9 6 26 16 23 27 10 28 5 6,29 16 48 17 25
8 34 6 10 7 26 58 24 28 10 31 6 7 m 17 28 18 26
8 38 7 1 1 8 27 42 25 29 10 35 7 8 1 18 9 19 27
8 42 8 12 8 28 23 26 Ttf 10 39 8 9 2 18 48 20 28
8 46 9 13 9 29 6 27 1 10 42 9 10 2 19 28 2o 29
8 5010 14 10 29 48 27 2 10 46 !0 11 3 20 8 21 m
8 54 11 15 11 0ttl30 28 3 10 50 1 1 11 4 20 48 22 1
8 58 12 16 12 ! 13 29 4 10 54 12 12 4 21 26 23 2
9 2 13 17 12 1 55 t 4 10 57 13 13 5 22 5 24 3
9 614 18 13 2 36 l 5 11 1 14 14 6 22 45 24 4
9 10 15 18 14 3 18 2 6 11 5 15 15 7 23 24 25 5
9 14 16 1.9 15 4 2 7 11 9 \6 16 7 24 4 26 6
9 18 17 20 [6 4 41 3 8 11 12 n 17 8 24 43 27 8
9 22 18 21 16 5 21 4 9 11 tf IS 17 9 25 23 28 9
9 26 19 22 17 6 4 5 10 11 20 19 18 10 26 1 29 10
9 30 20 23 18 6 45 5 11 11 23 20 19 10 26 41 \tf
11
9 3421 24 19 7 26 6 12 11 27 21 20 11 27 22 12
9 3822 25 19 8 6 ? 13 11 31 22 2112 28 1 1 13
9 4123 26 20 8 47 8 14 11 34 23 22,13 28 40 2 14
9 45|24 27 21 9 28 9 15 11 38 24 23 13 29 20 3 15
9 4925 28 22 10 8 9 16 11 42 25 23 14 29 59 4 16
9 5326 28 23 10 48 10 17 11 45 26 24 15 OJ39 5 17
9 57 27 29 23 11 29 n 18 11 49 37 25 15 I 19 5 18
10 1 28 £U 24 12 9 12 19 11 53 28 2616 2 8 6 19
10 5 29 1 25 12 50 12 20 11 56 29 26117 2 39 7 20
10 830 2 26 13 30 13 20 12 30 27117 3 10 8 21
302
NEW TABLES OF HOUSES,
Fur the Latitude of b\ Degrees, 32 Minutes,
© in £±
1
in m.
Time
from
Noon.
10
jy.
1 !
12 Aseen.
t
2 3
Time
from
Noon.
10 11 12 Ascen.
t
2 3
X
H. M. gr W S r g<v m. gr gr H. M. 8
1
g»',gr gr. m. gr sr
12 27 17 3 19 821 13 51 23 10 25 15 10 27
12 4 1 28 18 3 59 922 13 55 12311 26 5 li 28
12 7 g _\0 19 4 49 1024 13 59 2 24i 1
1
26 50 12 nr
12 11 3 »l 20 5 20 11 25 14 3 3 25,12 27 47 14 1
12 15 4 1 20 6 2 12 26 14 7 4 26 13 28 39 15 2
12 18 .5 1 21 6 43 13 27 14 11 5 26'l4 29 31 10 4
12 22 e 2 22 7 24 14 28 14 15 6 2715 0v?24 18 5
12 26 7 3 23 8 5 15 29 14 19 7 28 15 1 18 19 6
12 29 g 4 23 8 46 16 H 14 22 82916 2 13 2o 8
12 33 9 5 24 D 28 17 2 14 26 9 *;i7 3 10 22 9
12 37 10 6 25 10 10 18 3 14 30 10 1|18 4 6 23 10
12 40 1
1
6 25 10 52 19 4 14 34 SI 2 19 5 3 25 11
12 44 1 2 7 20 11 35 20 5 14 38 12 2 20 6 1 20 13
12 48 13 8 27 12 18 21 6 14 42 13 3 20 7 2s 14
12 51 14 9 28 12 59 22 7 14 46 14 4 21 8 29 15
12 55 15 10 28 13 43 23 9 14 50 15 5 22 9 2 >: 17
12 59 16 n 29 14 26 24 10 14 54 16 6 23 10 5 3 18
13 3 17 1
1
I 15 10 25 11 14 58 17 7 21 11 9 4 19
13 6 18 12 1 15 54 26 12 15 2 18 8 25 12 14 6 21
13 10 19 13 1 16 39 27 13 15 6 19 9 26 13 21 8 22
13 14 20 14 2 17 23 28 15 15 10 20 9 27 14 29 9 23
13 18 21 15 3 18 8 29 16 15 14 21 10 27 15 37 1
1
24
13 21 22 10 4 18 54 ^ 17 15 18 22 11 28 16 46 13 26
13 25 23 16 4 19 39 1 18 15 22 23 12 29 17 58 14 27
13 29 24 17 5 20 26 2 20 15 26 24 13 <j 19 11 16 28
13 33 25 18 6 21 14 4 2l 15 31 25 14 l 20 27 17 29
13 36 26 19 7 22 1 5 22 15 35 26 15 2 21 43 19 8.
13 40 27 20 7 22 49 6 23 15 39 27 16 3 22 3 21 9
13 44 28 21 8 23 37 7 25 15 43 28 17 4 24 24 22 3
13 48 29 21 9 24 26 8 20 15 47 29 18 5 25 46 24 5
13 52 30 22 10 25 15'l0 27 15 51 30 18 6 27 10 26 6
303
NEW TABLES OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 Degrees, 32 Minutes.
© in t © in Vf
Time
from
10 11 12 Ascen. 2 3
Time
from
10 11 12 Ascen. 2 3
Noon. t t V? SA X s Noon.
v? *P "7 T 8 n
gr
11
H. M. gr ^r ,y
V
Sr - m. gr gr H. M. g r gr gr gr- m. gr
15 51 18 6 27 10 26 6 18 18 13 o!i:
15 55 1 19 7 28 37 28 7 18 4 1 20 14 2 37 19 13
16 2 20 8 0*- 6 T 9 18 9 2 21 16 5 19 20 14
16 4 3 21 9 1 37 1 10 18 13 3 22 17 7 55 22 15
16 8 4 22 10 3 11 3 11 18 17 4 23 19 10 29 23 16
16 12 5 23 11 4 48 5 12 18 22 5 24 20 13 2 25 17
16 16 6 24 12 6 27 7 14 18 26 6 25 22 15 37 26 18
16 21 7 25 13 8 8 9 15 18 30 7 26 23 18 7 28 19
16 25 8 26 14 9 52 11 16 18 35 8 27 25 20 35 29 20
16 29 9 27 16 11 40 12 17 18 39 9 29 27 23 n 21
16 33 10 28 17 12 30 14 18 18 44 10 r^ 29 25 22 1 22
16 38 11 29 18 15 20 16 20 18 48 11 1 X 27 43 2 23
16 42 12 V* 19 17 16 18 21 18 52 12 2 2 0« 4 24
16 46 13 1 20 19 15 20 22 18 57 13 3 3 2 16 5 25
16 51 14 2 21 21 17 21 23 19 1 14 4 5 4 27 6 26
16 55 15 3 22 23 24 23 25 19 5 15 6 7 6 33 8 27
16 59,16 4 24 25 32 25 26 19 9 16 7 9 8 39 9 28
17 4 17 5 25 27 44 27 27 19 14 17 8 10 10 43 10 29
17 8 18 6 26 29 58 28 28 19 18 18 9 12 12 42 11 ffi
17 11 19 7 27 2K17 8 29 19 22 19 10 14 14 40 12 1
17 16 20 8 29 4 38 2 n 19 27 20 12 16 16 31 13 2
17 20 21 9 — 7 3 1 19 31 21 13 18 18 20 14 3
17 2522 10 1 9 24 5 2 19 35 22 14 19 20 7 16 4
17 30 23 11 3 11 53 7 3 19 39 23 15 21 21 52 17 5
17 34 24 12 4 14 23 8 5 19 44 24 16 23 23 33 18 6
17 38 25 13 5 16 59 10 6 19 48 25 18 25 25 13 19 7
17 43 26 14 7 19 32 11 7 19 52 26,19 27 26 49 20 8
17 47 27 15 8 22 5 13 8 19 56 27|20 28 28 22 21 9
17 51 28 16 10 24 39 14 9 20 2821 Y 29 53 22 10
17 56 29 17 11 27 20 16 10 20 5 29 23 2 ln23 23 11
18 30 18 13 30 17 11 20 9 3024 4 2 50124 12
304
NEW TABLES OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 degrees, 32 Minutes.
© in ~. ©in X.
Time
from
10 11 12 Asc en. 2 3
Time
from
1C 11 12 Ascen. 2 3
Noon.
•** ** r n n 2 Noon.
X Y
gr
8 <3 S3
gr
Si
gr
H. M. g* gr gr gr - m. g ;
'
S r H. M. gr gr gr. m.
20 9 24 4 2 50 24 12 22 8 3 2C 4 45 2C 8
20 13 1 25 6 4 14 25 12 22 12 1 4 21 5 35 21 8
20 17 2 27 7 5 37 20 13 22 16 2 6 23 6 23 22 9
20 21 ) 28 9 6 58 27 14 22 20 3 7 24 7 12 23 10
20 25 1 29 11 8 17 28 15 22 24 4 8 25 8 23 11
20 29 5 X 13 9 33 29 10 22 27 5 9 26 8 48 24 12
20 34 6 2 14 10 49 S3 17 22 31 6 10 28 9 35 25 13
20 38 7 3 16 12 3 1 IS 22 35 7 12 29 10 22 26 14
20 42 8 4 18 13 14 2 19 22 39 8 13 n 11 7 20 14
20 46 9 6 19 14 24 3 20 22 42 9 14 1 11 52 27 15
20 50 10 7 21 15 32 3 21 22 46 10 15 2 12 37 28 m
20 54 11 8 23 16 40 A 21 22 50 ]] 17 3 13 28 29 17
20 58 12 9 24 17 46 5 22 22 54 12 18 4 14 7 29 18
21 2 13 11 20 18 51 6 23 22 57 13 19 5 14 52 ft
19
21 6 14 12 28 19 56 7 24 23 1 14 20 0'
15 35 1 19
21 10 ]5 13 29 20 5S 8 25 23 5 15 21 7 16 17 2 20
21 14 16 15 8 22 9 26 23 9 10 23 8 17 1 2 21
21 18 17 16 2 23 10 27 23 12 17 24 9 17 44 3 22
21 22 18ll7 4 23 59 10 2* 23 16 18 25 10 18 26 4 23
21 26 19 19 5 24 58 11 2* 23 20 19 26 11 19 9 5 24
21 30 20 20 7 25 55 12 29 23 23 20|27 12 19 52 5 24
21 34 21 22 8 26 53 13 ft 23 27 21 29 J 3 20 32 6 25
21 38 22 23 10 27 47 14 1 23 31 22 8 14 21 14 7 26
21 4] 23 24 11 28 41 15 2 23 34 23 1 15 21 56 7 27
21 45 24 25 13 29 36 15 3 23 38 24 2 16 22 37 8 28
21 49 25 20 14 0s>29 10 A 23 42 25 3 17 23 18 9 28
21 53 26 28 15 1 22 17 4 23 45 26 4 is 23 59 9 29
21 57 27 29 10 2 14 18 5 23 49 27 5 19 24 39 10 m
22 1 28 T IS 3 4 19 6 23 53 28 20 25 21 11 i
22 5 29 2 19 3 56 is 7 23 56 29 8 21 26 2 12 2
22 8 30 3 20; 4 45 20) 8 24 30 9 22 26 42 12 3
305
A TABLE
For finding the hourly Motion of the Moon, and thereby her t\
Place at any Time of the Day.
X 11 46 11 56 12 6 12 16 12 26 12 36
'
d. m. d. no. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
1 29 30 30 1 31 31
2 59 1 1 1 30 1 2 1 3
3 1 28 1 30 1 31 1 32 1 33 1 35
4
5
1 58 1 59 2 1 2 3 2 4 2 6
2 27 2 29 2 31 9 84 2 35 2 37
6 2 57 2 59 3 1 3 4 3 6 3 09
. 7 3 26 3 29 3 32 3 35 3 38 3 40
8 3 55 3 59 4 2 4 6 4 9 4 12
9 4 25 4 28 4 32 4 36 4 40 4 43
10 4 54 4 58 5 3 5 7 5 11 5 15
11 5 24 5 28 5 33 5 37 5 42 5 46
12 5 53 5 58 6 3 6 8 6 13 6 18
13 6 22 6 28 6 33 6 39 6 44 6 49
14 6 52 6 58 7 3 7 9 7 15 7 21
15 7 21 7 28 7 34 7 40 7 46 7 52
16 7 51 7 57 8 4 8 11 8 17 8 24
17 8 20 8 27 8 34 8 41 8 48 8 55
18 8 49 8 57 9 4 9 12 9 19 9 27
19 9 19 9 27 9 35 9 43 9 51 9 58
20 ,
9 48 9 57 10 5 10 13 10 22 10 30
21 10 18 10 27 10 35 10 44 10 53 11 1
22 10 47 10 57 11 6 11 15 11 24 11 33
23 11 17 11 26 11 36 11 45 11 55 12 4
24 11 46 11 56 12 6 12 16 12 26 12 36
306
A TABLE
For finding the hourly Motion of the Moon, and thereby her true
Place at any Time of the Day.
K 12 46 12 56 13 6 13 16 13 26 13 36 13 46 13 56
d. m. d. ra. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. ID. d. m. d. m.
1 32 32 33 33 34 34 34 35
2 1 4 1 5 1 5 1 6 I 8 1 8 1 9 1 10
3 1 36 1 37 1 38 1 39 1 42 1 42 1 43 1 44
4 2 8 2 9 2 11 2 13 2 14 2 16 2 18 2 19
5 2 40 2 42 2 44 2 46 2 48 2 50 2 52 2 54
6 3 11 3 14 3 16 3 19 3 21 3 24 3 26 3 29
7 3 43 3 46 3 49 3 52 3 57 3 58 4 1 4 4
8 4 15 4 19 4 22 4 25 4 29 4 32 4 35 4 39
9 4 47 4 51 4 55 4 58 5 9 5 6 5 10 5 13
10 5 19 5 23 5 27 5 32 5 36 5 40 5 44 5 48
11 5 51 5 56 6 6 5 6 9 6 14 6 19 6 23
12 6 23 6 28 6 33 6 38 6 43 6 48 6 53 6 58
13J
6 55 7 7 6 7 11 7 17 7 22 7 27 7 33
14! 7 27 7 33 7 38 7 44 7 50 7 56 8 2 8 8
15 7 59 8 5 8 11 8 17 8 24 8 30 8 36 8 42
16 8 31 8 37 8 44 8 51 8 57 9 4 9 11 9 17
17l 9 3 9 10 9 17 9 24 9 31 9 38 9 45 9 52
18 9 34 9 42 9 49 9 57 10 4 10 12 10 19 10 27
19-10 6 10 14 10 22 10 30 10 38 10 46 10 54 11 02
2010
i
38 13 47 10 55 11 3 11 J2 11 20 11 28 11 37
2111 10 11 19 11 27 11 36 11 45 11 54 12 3 12 11
2211 42 11 51 12 12 10 12 16 12 28 12 37 12 46
2312 14 12 24 12 33 12 43 12 52 13 9 13 12 12 21
2412
1
46 12 56 13 6 13 16 13 2613 36 13 46 13 56
. ..
307
A TABLE
For finding the hourly Motion of the Moon, and thereby her true Place
at any Time of the Day.
rr 14 6 14 16 14 26 14 36 14 46 14 5t 15 6 15 16
p d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m d. m. d. m.
1 35 36 36 36 14 57 37 38 38
2 1 10 1 11 1 12 1 12 1 14 1 15 1 15 1 16
3 1 46 1 47 1 48 1 49 1 51 1 52 1 53 1 54
4 2 21 2 23 2 24 2 26 2 28 2 29 2 31 2 33
5 56 2 58 3 3 3 3 5 3 7 3 9 3 11
6 3 31 3 34 3 36 3 39 4 4*1 3 44 3 46 3 49
7 4 7 4 10 4 12 4 15 4 18 4 22 4 2? 4 27
8 4 42 4 46 4 49 4 52 4 55 4 59 5 2 5 5
9 5 17 5 21 5 25 5 28 5 32 5 36 5 40 5 43
10 5 52 5 57 6 1 6 5 6 9 6 13 6 17 6 22
11 6 28 6 32 6 37 6 41 6 46 6 5] 6 55 7
12 7 3 7 8 7 13 7 18 7 23 7 28 7 33 7 38
13 7 38 7 44 7 49 7 54 8 8 5 8 11 8 16
14 8 13 8 19 8 25 8 31 8 37 8 43 8 48 8 54
15 8 49 8 55 9 1 9 7\ 9 14 9 20 9 26 9 32
16
17
9 24 9 30 9 37 9 44 9 51 9 57 10 4 10 11
9 59 10 6 10 13 10 2010 28 10 35 10 42 10 49
18 10 34 10 42 10 49 10 57,11 4 11 12 11 19 11 27
19 11 10 11 18 11 26 11 31ill 41 11 49 11 57 12 5
20 11 45 11 58 12 2 12 1012 18 12 27 12 35 12 43
21 12 20 12 29 12 38 12 46ll2 55 13 4 13 13 13 21
22 12 55 13 513 14 13 2313 33 13 41 13 50 14
23 13 31 13 40 13 50 14 5914 39 14 18 14 28 14 38
24 14 6 14 16 14 26 14 36*14
•
1
46 14 56 \6 6 15 16
x 2
308 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
The use of this table is to find (by an ephemeris) the true place
of the moon at any particular time of the day. It must be remem-
bered that all astronomers begin the day at noon, and count 24 hours
to the day : so that, beginning one day at noon, the same ends the
next day at noon ; thus, 1 in the afternoon is the first hour of the
day, and 13 hours after noon is the next day 1 in the morning. Now
in the ephemeris, the tnoon'0 place in the third column in every
month is exactly calculated to the meridian of London; and, to
know her daily motion, you must subtract the place of the moon one
day, from her place the following day, by adding 30 degrees (if need
require it), which gives her daily motion ; then look for the same in
the head of the table, or the nearest number you can find to it, and
under it is the motion of the moon, agreeing to that time.
Example.—To find the place of the moon on the 18th day of Ja-
nuary at 8 at night : her place at noon is n 12 deg. 42 min. and the
next day in 27 deg. 8 min. of the same sign ; therefore, her diurnal
motion is 1 4 deg. 26 min. : then I find the nearest number to this,
viz. 14 deg. 26 min. in the head of the table, and against 8 hours are
4 deg. 42 min. which being added to n 12 deg. 42 min. her place
at noon, the sum will be n 17 deg. 8 min. her place at 8 o'clock
that night.
We have given these tables of the moon'0 motion, with a view to
assist those persons who study horary astrology, for it often happens
that they have not time to work a sum ; therefore, these easy tables
will be found very acceptable to the work.
309
a Table
To reduce the Motion of the Planets to any Hour of the Daij or
Night.
"§
4 2 G 3 p
£.2
3 -tt
One Hour's £.2
•"5 ** One H(3ur's £ .2 One Hour's
Motion.
.2 o
D or
Motion.
~ o
as Motion.
D or D M S D M S D or D M S
M M S T M M S T M M S T
1 2 30 22 55 43 1 47 30
2 5 23 57 30 44 1 50
3 7 30 24 1 45 1 52 30
4 10 25 1 2 30 46 1 55
5 12 30 26 1 5 47 1 57 30 .
6 15 27 1 7, 30 48 2
7 17 30 28 1 10 49 2 2 30
8 20 29 1 12 30 50 2 5
9 22 30 30 1 15 51 2 7 30
10 25 31 1 17 30 52 2 10
11 Q7 30 32 I 20 53 2 12 30
12 30 33 1 22 30 54, 2 15
13 32 30 34 1 25 55 2 17 30
14 35 35 1 27 30 56 2 20
15 37 30 36 1 30 57 2 22 30
16 40 37 1 32 30 58 2 25
17 42 30 38 1 35 59 2 27 30
18 45 39 1 37 30 60 2 30
19 47 30 40 1 40 61 2 32 30
20 50 41 1 42 30 62 2 35
21 J
52 30 42 1 45 63 2 37 30
To find the true place of each planet at any hour when we have
occasion to erect a figure, it only requires to turn to the ephemeris
for the planets' places at noon ; which being found, note how many
degrees or minutes they move in the zodiac, by twelve o'clock the
next day, or from noon the preceding day, and then, by the help of
the above table, it will be seen how many degrees, minutes, or se-
conds, they move in an hour. For example, suppose a planet moves
1 degree in 24 hours, how far does it move in 1 hour ? At the top
of the first column is the figure 1, and in the same line of the second
column is 2 minutes and 30 seconds; which shows, that if a planet
<->10 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
be 24 hours in moving 1 degree, it then moves 2 minutes and 30 se-
conds in an hour. Or suppose a planet only moves 2 minutes in 24
hours, look into the first column of the table for the figure 2 ; oppo-
site, in the second column, stands 4 seconds, which shows that, if a
planet moves 2 minutes in 24 hours, it then only moves 5 seconds in
an hour. The same rules are to be observed in the motions of all
the planets ; but let it be carefully remembered, that if the diurnal
motion of any planet be in degrees, then you must enter the first co-
lumn of the table under the denomination of degrees, and the second
column with minutes and seconds; but, if the diurnal motion of the
planet be only in minutes, then you must begin to reckon in mi-
nutes, &c. ___
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XVI.
THE OPERATION OF THE TWELVE HOUSES.
The first house, which is denoted by the figure 1, is called the
ascendant, because, the point of its angle being level with the hori-
zon, whatever planet ascends from under the earth must ascend upon
this line, and become visible first in this house. The line upon which
the planets ascend, or move, is called the cusp of the houses, and that
of the ascendant is generally reckoned to extend about five degrees
above the earth, and twenty-five degrees beneath. Now, the quality
of whatsoever part of the heavens occupies, or fills up, the degrees of
this house, carries along with it the health, life, and nature of every
infant or thing that is conceived or brought forth within its jurisdic-
tion. And hence hath this point of the heavens a faculty of attract-
ing or receiving the virtues of the celestial matter, that is accidentally
ascending in that part of heaven at the birth, and also of the planets
and fixed stars in their transits ; and all the rays of the planets, in
their aspects and conjunctions, are attracted into this part of heaven,
in order to the formation of the shape, stature, temperature of the
body, quality of the mind, and all accidents and contingencies which
shall befall the native's body, or health, or life, unto his dying day :
such a sympathy is there between this part of the heavenly frame,
and of every act and thing that is produced, or receives life under it.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. ijll
For as the seed in the ground, after it has taken root, buds forth,
and appears above ground, so the heavenly intelligences, after they
have framed the embryo, and the temperament thereof, under the
earth, give it life and being of its own, putting forth level with them
just as they ascend.
Now, since theirs* house or asGendant gives birth and life to the
native, it follows that those houses which are the attendants on and
upholders of life should be joined with it ; and as children, or the
native's offspring, are the upholders of life in this world, and religion
and learning the grand means of upholding it unto eternity in the
other world, so the houses which contribute these blessings to the
life already given, are joined in an- harmonious trine with the first
house, making up that a threefold cord, which, as Solon saith, can
never be broken. The one is a succedent house, called the fifth
house, and the other a cadent house, called the ninth house ; and to
be convinced of the effects of this fifth house, note the heavenly mat-
ter, planets, stars, and aspects, therein posited at the time of birth,
according to the rules here laid down, and they shall truly represent
the number and state of the native's offspring, and all other parti-
culars relative to children. So also examine the state of the ninth
house, and as that represents, so shall the native be in respect of
religion and science ; for the heavenly matter, planets, stars, and
aspects therein, shall show what and how the man shall prove, whe-
ther wise or foolish, devout or schismatical, in this respect.
The second angular point of the houses of heaven is called the
mid-heaven, which is that point which culminates, being the very
top or highest point of the heavenly frame. And whatever part of the
heavens happens to be culminating in this point at the birth of any
person or thing, that it takes charge of, and carries along with it, ever
after, the preferment, honour, profession, situation, and authority of
the native ; and, as the nature of the planets, stars, .aspects, and hea-
venly matter happens to be, that are situated in this point, or in the
degrees pertaining to it, so shall the native prove in his life-time, in
point of dignity, advancement, and reputation in this world, whether
high or low, fortunate or unfortunate, favoured or disgraced. The
attendants upon, and upholders of man's honour and dignity, as the
312 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
scriptures and every day's experience perpetually show us, are
wealth and servants. The first of these is attached to the mid-heaven
in a succedent house, called the second house of heaven ; and the
other in a cadent house, called the sixth house of heaven ; and these
two are situated in an harmonious trine with the angular point of the
mid-heaven. And now well observe what the planets, stars, aspects,
and heavenly matter are in either of these houses at the time of
birth, and such shall the native's fortune prove in respect of riches
and subordinate dependents ; in the second house for wealth, and in
the sixth for servants or dependents.
The third angle of the figure of heaven is the seventh house, or
point of the heavens and degrees contingent, which are always
descending, or setting out of our horizon, and sinking under the
earth ; and this point is directly opposite to the eastern angle or
ascendant. Now, as the rising heaven or ascendant is the beginning
and conduit of life, so this setting heaven, level with the ascendant,
is the bringing all mundane affairs level with life : such as our entrance
into the state of marriage ; our contracts and enterprises in business,
war, and travel ; our connections and success therein, whether with
friends, strangers, or enemies; and these whether honest men, para-
sites, or thieves. And the heavenly matter, planets, stars, and as-
pects, situated in this angle at a nativity, apparently show how a
man shall fare in respect of wives, more or less, any or none, good
or bad : and, in matters of business or adventure, how fortunate or
unfortunate he may be likely to prove ; and, with enemies or thieves,
how far he is likely to be injured by them. Necessary upholders of
marriage, supporters in trade and travel, and defenders against thieves,
plunderers, and enemies, are friends, relations, and neighbours ; and
these in a trine to the seventh house are brought forth, the first out of
the eleventh house of heaven, a succedent house, and the other out
of the third house of heaven, a cadent house. This eleventh house,
by the planets, stars, aspects, and heavenly matter therein, points out
the state of a man's friends and hopes in this life : and the third house
describes, by the same means, how happy or unhappy a man shall
prove in his relations, connections, and neighbours.
The last angle of heaven is the fourth house, called the bottom of
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. <5 J o
heaven, and represents that point which, in our conception, seems to
hang at the very bottom of the round ball of the celestial world,
being diametrically opposite to the exterior, or mid-heaven. And,
as that shows what a man in the course of nature shall rise to in the
world, this, on the contrary, declares what and when shall be his fall,
decay, and death. This house has therefore signification of the end
of every worldly concern, and, amongst other ends, of the grave, which
is the end of all men living, however dignified or great. And the
planets, stars, and aspects, posited in this house at the time of birth?
never fail to show what kind of end will most probably happen to the
native ; for, as the twelve signs have each their particular and visible
effects upon and over every part of man's body, and as the planets
and their aspects show in what sign the native shall be impedited,
that is, in what part of the body the root of his natural infirmity shall
be placed, and what accidents shall befall him during life, so is it an
easy process to point out the manner of his death, and whether natu-
ral, honourable, or ignominious. The upholders of this angle are
the houses of tribulation and death : the one a succedent house,
called the eighth house, or house of death ; and the other a cadent
house, called the twelfth house. And now let it be carefully observed
what planets, stars, aspects, and heavenly matter occupy these houses
at the time of birth, and they shall point out, in the twelfth house,
all the principal misfortunes, afflictions, and tribulations of the
native's life, and in the eighth house the time and manner of his
death.
Independent of the faculties hitherto specified, each of these houses
of heaven has other significations and effects, which are demon-
strated in various ways. For instance, the ascendant represents
the native coming into the world, and the fourth house at the same
time represents the parents of the native going out ; for " one gene-
ration goes off, and another always comes in,'* according to the
course of nature. Of these parents, the father is more especially
signified by the fourth house ; and then, secondarily, but not so for-
cibly, the mother of the native is signified by the tenth house, and
the grandfather by the seventh, and uncles, aunts, and relations on
the father's side by the sixth, and uncles, aunts, and relations on the
314 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
mother's side by the twelfth. Hence, also, it comes to pass, that by
the fourth house are signified houses and lands, and all degrees of
patrimony left by the father; and by the eighth house are shown all
goods and legacies left by will of the deceased. The second and
sixth house in half trine to the house of the grave, and in opposition
to the eighth and twelfth, have a secondary signification of sickness
and death.
Such are the qualities and operations of the twelve houses of hea-
ven; but these qualities are sometimes materially altered and changed
for the better or worse, either by the means of the moon being a con-
ductor, or some other of the celestial motions or affections. It is
certain that the moon circles the earth once in twenty-eight days
;
but in this perambulation she neither keeps the sun's pathway in the
ecliptic, nor continues her course constantly on the same side of it
;
but once in every fourteen days she crosses the ecliptic, alternately
to her north and south declination ; and it is found by repeated and
correct observation that the point in the heavens where she crosses
the line is strongly affected by her motion. The moon is the great
body of life and growth, and, when she passes the ecliptic to the
north, which brings her nearer into this northern world, she then
gives an extraordinary degree of fruitfulness, which wonderfully
strengthens with its influence whatsoever happens within the line of
its jurisdiction. And this point, wherever it falls, is called the moon's
north node, but is distinguished in astrological works by the name
of the& Draflort'fl $eaB, as already explained. If Jupiter or CHertU0
happen to be in these degrees, it makes them much stronger and
more efficacious in their benevolent operations ; but, if Saturn or
$$ar0 be posited there, it gives them, on the contrary, a stronger
inclination to prove mischievous and unfortunate. When the moon
intersects the ecliptic line to her southern declination, she leaves that
point of the heavens where she crosses it, which is termed the fS
JDracon'0 t!Tail, as barren, to all intents and purposes, as the other was
fruitful ; and it weakens as well the benevolent auspices of % and $
as the evil inclinations of T? and $ .
Next to the nodes the ® part of fortune has its operation upon
these twelve celestial houses. The point which we term the part of
ART UF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. j{6
fortune is only the distance of the moon's place from the sun's, added
to the degrees of the ascendant ; and the nature of it is, as constant
observation ascertains, that if this point falls among fortunate stars,
or in a fortunate part of the heavens, then it promises great success
in health, wealth, honour, or offspring, or any other species of
prosperity, according to its position, either in the first, eleventh, or
fifth houses, or in any others. The reason of this appears to be, that
the sun, moon, and ascendant, being the prime conduits through
which the stream of life flows, this seat of the (J) part of fortune is
the harmony of all three, concentring and uniting in the same acts of
benevolence.
Thus far we have seen the operations of the twelve houses of hea-
ven, as they appertain to the time and circumstances of a nativity.
We shall now explain their properties in that system of nature
upon which the doctrine of nativities and horary questions is
grounded ; and such has been the industry and indefatigable labour
of our forefathers in bringing this science to maturity, and in disco-
vering and distinguishing the particular significations and effects of all
positions of the planets in the twelve houses of heaven, that whoever
takes the pains to inform himself sufficiently of them, will not be in
want of competent grounds whereon to j udge, or give rational answers
to every question on the common occurrences of life, or any contin-
gent accidents or undertakings, with the consequences and success of
them.
THE SIGNIFICATION OF THE TWELVE HOUSES OF HEA-
VEN, IN NATIVITIES AND HORARY QUESTIONS.
The first house bears signification of the life of man, and of the
stature, colour, complexion, form, and shape, of him who propounds
a question, or has his nativity cast ; and, as all the vicissitudes of
nature depend upon the period of man's life, so all questions are
resolved by this house, that relate to sickness, health, or long life ;
and also all accidents by which life may be endangered or impaired,
—what part of one's days will be the most happy and prosperous
;
316 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
whether any absent friend or relation be living or dead; or whether
any journey, voyage, or ship at sea will be attended with success
and safety, or if it will meet with any accident fatal to life or de-
structive to the ship. In short, all questions relating to circum-
stances that affect life are to be answered from the first house.
In state astrology, and in eclipses, great conjunctions, appearances
of comets, and other luminous and extraordinary phenomena in the
heavens, and upon the sun's annual ingress into the equinoctial sign,
grietf, the first house bears signification of the community at large,
or of that state, empire, or kingdom, where the figure is erected. It
represents the head and face, so that if either |j , £ , or the £3, be
in this house, either at the time of a question or at the time of a
birth, you will observe some blemish in the face or in that member
governed by the sign that then is upon the cusp of the house ; for
instance, if <y> be in the ascendant, the mark, mole, or scar, is always
in the head or face, and, if few degrees of the sign ascend, the mark
is in the upper part of the head ; if the middle of the sign be on the
cusp, the mole, mark, or scar, is in the middle of the face, or near it;
if the latter degrees ascend, the face is blemished near the chin
towards the neck. This rule we have found verified in many nativi-
ties.
From the second house we form judgment upon all questions relat-
ing to wealth or poverty, prosperity or adversity, and loss or gain in
any undertaking that may be propounded by the querent ; and also
concerning moveable goods, money lent or employed in speculation.
In suits of law or equity, it shows a man's friends or assistants ; in
private duels, it describes the querent's second ; in eclipses, it shows
the growing prosperity or adversity of a state or people ; and, at the
sun's entrance into Qxieg, it expresses the strength of the empire
where the figure is erected, in its internal resources, in its allies, and
in all other requisites of war or self-defence.
The third house having signification of brethren, sisters, kindred,
and neighbours, and of all inland journeys, and of removing one's
manufacture or business from one place to another, so all questions
that are founded upon any subjects relative thereto are answered
from the planets situated in this house.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 317
From the fourth house we resolve all questions in any way relating
to or concerning the father of the querist. Also, all inquiries relat-
ing to land, houses, or estates, or to towns, cities, castles, or entrench-
ments besieged, of treasures hidden in the ground, and all other
questions relating to the earth, are answered out of this house, which
is called the Iirium Cceli, or angle of the earth.
By the fifth house we form all our predictions relative to children,
and to women in the state of pregnancy ; also all questions concerning
the present health of absent sons or daughters, or the future health
of those at home ; inquiries relating to the real and personal effects
of one's father, or concerning the success of messengers, ambassa-
dors, or plenipotentiaries, or respecting the ammunition or internal
strength of a place besieged, are all answered from this house.
The sixth house resolves all questions that in any respect appertain
to servants or cattle. Also inquiries concerning the state of a sick
person, whether curable or not, the nature of the disease, and whe-
ther of short or long duration ;
particulars relating to uncles and
aunts, and all kindred on the father's side ; also concerning one's
tenants, stewards, or the like, are resolved by the disposition of the
stars and planets situated in this house.
By the seventh house we are enabled to resolve all questions in
love affairs and marriage, and to describe the person of either the
man or woman that the querist will be joined with in marriage. It
likewise answers all inquiries of the defendant in law-suits and liti-
gations, or concerning our public enemies in time of war. In astro-
logy it represents the artist himself; in physic, the physician ; in
thefts, it enables us to describe the person of the robber, by his shape,
stature, complexion, and condition of life. In an annual ingress, it
usually indicates whether peace or war may be expected, and, prior
to an engagement, betokens which side shall prove victorious; it dis-
covers fugitives, outlawed men, and offenders escaped from justice.
From the eighth house we solve all questions concerning death,
its time, quality, and nature, with all matters relating to legacies,
wills, and last testaments; or who shall inherit the fortune and
estates of the deceased. Inquiries on the dowry or portion of maids
or widows; in duels, concerning the adversary's second ; in law-suits,
318 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
relative to the defendant's success and friends; and questions on
public or private enemies, or concerning the substance and security
of those we connect ourselves with in business, are all answered by
the situation of the planets in this house.
By the ninth house we are enabled to answer all questions on the
safety and success of voyages and travels into foreign countries ;
also inquiries of the clergy concerning church preferments, benefices,
advowsons, and the like ; and all questions relative to kindred and
relations on the wife's side, and the same on the husband's side, if
the wife be the querist, and all matters relating to arts and sciences,
are likewise resolved from this house.
The tenth house being the Medium Cceli, or most elevated part of
the whole heavens, resolves all questions concerning kings, princes,
dukes, earls, marquises, and all noblemen, judges, principal officers
of state, commanders in chief, all orders of magistrates, and all per-
sons in power and authority. Inquiries after preferment, honours,
dignity, offices, places, pensions, or sinecures, or concerning the
estate of kingdoms, empires, provinces, commonwealths, counties,
cities, or societies of men, are all resolved from the mid-heaven.
By the eleventh house we answer all inquiries concerning friends
and friendship, hope, trust, expectance, or desire ; also whatever
relates to the fidelity or perfidiousness of friends, or to the counsel-
lors, advisers, associates, favourites, or servants of kings, princes, or
men in power.
The twelfth house, being the house of tribulation, resolves all ques-
tions of sorrow, affliction, trouble, anxiety of mind, distress, impri-
sonment, persecution, malice, secret enemies, suicide, treason, con-
spiracy, assassination, and everything appertaining to the misfor*.
tunes and afflictions of mankind.
The Pleiads, Hyads, with the Northern Team,
And great Orion's more refulgent beam j
To which, around the axle of the sky,
The Bear revolving points his golden eye,
Still shines exalted in th' ethereal plain,
Nor bathes his blazing forehead in the main. Pope's Homen
319
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XVII.
A TABLE OF THE PRINCIPAL FIXED STARS NEAR THE
ECLIPTIC,
Showing their Longitude, Latitude, Magnitude, and Nature.
Names of the fixed stars. Longitude. Latitude. Mag. Nature
.
s, G. M. D. M.
S. end tail of the whale v 43 20 47 S 2 h
Head of Andromeda T 11 38 25 42 N 2 % $
Girdle of Andromeda <Y> 27 40 25 59 N 2 $
Left foot of Andromeda 8 11 29 27 46 N 2 9
Bright star in jaw of Whale 8 11 47 12 37 S 2 J?
Caput Algol H 23 27 22 22 N 3 J?
%
Oculus Taurus. II 5 25 2 36 S 3 2
Aldebaran n 7 3 5 31 S 1 $
Rigel n 14 14 31 11 S 1 n $
Former shoulder of Orion n 18 11 16 53 S 2 $ $
She Goat n 19 13 22 51 N ] 2 $
Bright Foot of Gemini © 6 18 6 48 S 2 * *'
Castor Apollo So 17 ,28 10 2 N 2 $2 h
Pollux Hercules © 20 30 6 38 N 2 $
Lesser Dog-Star ® 23 5 15 57 S 2 * $
Proesepe a 4 33 1 14 N Neb. $ a
North Assellus a 4 38 3 8 N Neb. $ ©
South Assellus si 5 55 4 S Neb. $ ©
Heart of Hydra si 24 30 22 24 S 1 J? $
Cor Leonis, Regulous si 26 45 26 N 1
T
* W
Vendemiatrix w 7 10 16 15 N 3 *? $
Back of the Lyon m 8 28 14 20 N 2 *? $
Deneb, or Tail of Lyon W 18 50 12 18 N 1 J?
$ 5
Crater "R 20 45 23 s •4
? 5
Arcturus =& 19 25 31 30 N 1 V *
Virgin's Spike, Arista •Qt
21 3 1 59 N 1 $ a
South Balance «l 12 24 25 N 2 * ?
North Balance "l 16 35 8 35 N 2 v a
Left Hand of Ophinchus m. 29 33 17 19 N 3 $ i?
Higher >ft in forehead Scor.
Left knee of Ophinchus.
t 23 1 5 N 2 h $
t 6 27 11 30 N 3 a %
Cor Scorpio t 6 15 4 s 2 $ %
Scorpion's Heart, Antares t 7 4 27 S 1 $ *
Right Knee of Ophinchus t 15 13 7 18 N 3 h $
Bright Star of the Vulture Yf 28 56 29 21 N 2 J? 5
Mouth of Pegasus ZS 8 49 22 7 N 3 $ S
Tail of the Goat ~ 20 46 2 29 S 3 b
Fomahaut X 58 21 s 1 $ 5
Marchab X 20 43 19 26 N 2 £ $
Scheat Pegasi X 26 031 7 N 2 *?
320 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
The first column contains the names of the stars ;* the second
column shows their longitude, or in what degree and minute of the
twelve signs they are situated ; the third column shows the degree
and minute of their latitude, either north or south, which is denoted
by the letters N S ; the fourth column denotes their magnitude ; and
the fifth shows their natural quality : for example, the star in the
wing of Pegasus is in 6 degrees, 29 minutes of y t has twelve de-
grees', 35 minutes' north latitude, is of the 2nd magnitude, and parti-
cipates in the nature and quality of $ and £ •
The fixed stars may be found and distinguished in the heavens
by their conjunctions with the moon, or by observing their order
from any given point in the heavens; thus, begin with the Pleiades,
vulgarly called the Seven Stars, and next to them in order, but some-
what lower, is a large red star, called Aldebaran, or the South Eye of
the Bull ; next follows Orion's Belt or Girdle, which are three stars
in a rank, thus * * *, and are vulgarly called the Yard or Ell : next
follows a star, called the Great Dog, which is a large bright star,
somewhat lower than the Girdle of Orion ; the next is called the
headof(2>emini, and is about the height of the Seven Stars ; there are
two together, which appear thus **—the largest of the two is the star
here nominated; the next which follows in order is called South As-
sellus, no great star, but of a red colour ; there are two of them near
together and alike, and stand or appear thus **,—the lower of the
two is the star here meant ; next in order follows a star called the
Head of Hydra, lower than Assellus, and of a bright white colour
;
then follows a star in the flank of the Lion, very bright, and about
the height of the Seven Stars ; next to that, the Virgin's Girdle, a
bright star, and lower than the flank of the Lion ; and next follows
a curious star, called the Virgin's Spike, very large and bright ; it is
a star of the first magnitude, and appears a little lower, or more
southerly, than the Virgin's Girdle ; next in order follows the star
called Arcturus, a very remarkable, bright, red-coloured star, about
the altitude of the Pleiades ; then follows the star of the Crown,
* A planet may be known from a fixed star by the steadiness of its light ; for
a fixed star appears to emit a twinkling-
light, but a planet gives a mild steady
light.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 321
large and bright, and higher than Arcturus ; then the right Shoulder
of Hercules, of a pale white colour, near the altitude of the Seven
Stars ; then follows the Head of Ophinchus, of a pale white colour,
and somewhat southward of Hercules ; then appears a star under
the armpit of Sagittary, a bright star, but very low ; next, the
bright star of the Vulture, large, and lower than the Seven Stars
;
the next star is called the Left Shoulder of the Water-bearer, about
the altitude of Orion's Girdle, of a pale white colour ; the next in
order is the star called Marchab, being a star of a bright colour, a
little lower than the Seven Stars, but much bigger ; then follows the
southern star of the Whale's Tail,—this star is of a pale colour, and
about the height of the sun the shortest day ; then follows a star
called the Girdle of Andromeda, a bright glittering star, and much
higher than the Pleiades ; lastly, there is the bright star of the Ram,
of a red colour, and lower than the Seven Stars :
—
" How distant some of the nocturnal suns !
So distant, says the sage, 'twere not absurd
To doubt, if beams set out at Nature's birth
Are yet arrived at this so foreign world,
Though nothing half so rapid as their flight.
An eye of awe and wonder let me roll,
And roll for ever. Who can satiate sight
In such a scene, in such an ocean wide
Of deep astonishment—where depth, height, breadth,
Are lost in their extremes ; and where to count
The thick-sown glories in this field of fire,
Perhaps a seraph's computation fails ?" Young.
Now, to know whether any of the fixed stars fall into the figure
erected, I note the sign and degree upon the cusps of the houses,
and then examine the 2nd column of the foregoing table of fixed
stars ; and, if I find either of them ascending or descending within
five degrees of the signs upon the cusps of the several houses, they are
then to be entered in the same manner as the planets, and their qua-
lities and influences are to be duly weighed, according to the nature
of whatever planet they correspond with, which is shown in the last
column of the table.
The situation of the principal constellations which appear above
the horizon of London, during a night about the middle of Decem-
Y
322 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
ber, is so beautifully and accurately described in the following ex-
tract from the philosophic poem entitled Eudosia, that it cannot but
be admired by all lovers of astronomy : — *
" Now let us watch the rising of the stars,
And look where mid December points the hour
Most apt for contemplation of the scene.
The fourth from noon is passed, and half the space
Fled to the fifth ; in the meridian view
Cepheus, sublime j the Dragon's tortile spire,
Where shines to Britain's great metropolis
The correspondent star j alike remote
This from the heavenly, that the earthly pole,
And perfectly coincident in place,
The greater Bear, is seen, and Pegasus
Tends to the south ; the beauteous Twins emerge
From the horizon ; Taurus climbs oblique ;
Still higher Aries ; the declining Fish
Verge to the southern wave ; and Capricorn
Glistens, diminished, in the western sky :
And, near the goal, with languid ray, appears
Chiron ; but, nigh to the direct of east,
Orion half is risen ; nor prevails
The horizon even now to eclipse the pomp
Of the proud constellation ; his right side
Blazes ; the star which lightens on the left
Is winning now upon our hemisphere :
And near him the vast Whale conspicuous shines.
The sixth hour is elapsed,—Orion shows
His flaming belt ; the Twins are wholly risen ',
Soon Procyon appears ; and now the Crown
Of Ariadne rises : Charles, thy star,
Though never setting to the horizon, stoops;
And of the Crab the far-distinguished light
Emerges. Little later than the seventh,
Sirius appears : the ninth, the Lion shines ;
And in the vertex is Medusa seen.
Near the tenth hour from noon Hydra appears
Southward ; at mid of night, Orion's form
Fires the meridian ; but the Whale retired ;
The radiant Lyra meets the horizon's bound ;
The Virgin form shows her ascendant wing ;
Capella in the zenith glows. An hour
* Those who are possessed of a celestial globe, and know how to use it, will, in
a few evenings, acquire a knowledge of the principal stars that may be above their
horizon at that season ; but the foregoing directions will be found to answer the
same purpose, with the assistance either of a globe or map of the heavens.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 323
Is passed ; Arcturus rises : ere the night
Has marked the second hour from its mid space*
Shoots in full beam the great Newtonian Star.
The fourth approaches, when the golden star
Of Libra gains the eye ; the sails retire
Of the resplendent Ship ; her lucid mast
Shines eminent. The sixth her fettered arm
Andromeda discovers ; and the heart
Of Scorpio rises ; Hydra fills the west ;
Medusa's Head sinks, and Orion bears
With difficulty his shoulders unsubmerged :
Monocros succeeds. Why should I name
The Snake, or Serpentarius, fully risen ?
Or why repeat the wonders which before
Engaged our eye,—the great and smaller Bear,
With the Camelopard and varied Lynx ?
Or gaze on thee, O Perseus ! thee admire,
Aquila ; or the Lyre, which reascends ?
But, rising eastward, beams the glorious arch
Of the pure galaxy. And now appears
Urania's Sextant, and persuades to leave
The starry theatre, and yield to dawn;
For now Aurora's fiery coursers gild
The frosty summit of the eastern hills.
All this delightful scene revolving earth
Produces, visiting the several stars ;
While undisturbed remain the heavenly spheres.
Eudosia .
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XVIII.
(&f tf)t Space anir Duration of %\ft.
Before any judgment can be given on a nativity, it is requisite
to be known, whether the native is of a long or short life : I have
therefore selected the following general rules :
—
Signs of Death in Infancy.
1. If the birth be precisely on a new or full moon, and the moon
in her nodes.
2. If the moon be in conjunction of gaturn and £^ar0, in the 6th,
8th, or 12th house of the figure.
3. If the moon be in quartile or opposition of gaturn or flpari? in
the 4th house.
Y2
324 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
4. If the moon be besieged by the 01m and $9ar0.
5. If an eclipse impede the light of time in the hour of birth.
6. If all the planets be subterranean, and neither the 0un nor moon
essentially fortified.
7. If the two malefics are conjoined in the ascendant.
8. If an infortune in the ascendant vitiate the degrees thereof, or
by quartile or opposition.
These configurations, by long and invariable experience, are found
to destroy life in infancy, except the benefic rays of Jupiter or Witnm
interpose, and, by joining in the aspects, modify and remit their ma-
lignant effect.
Signs of Short Life.
If the degree ascending Sol or Huna be extremely afflicted, or ei-
ther of them, it is an argument of short life, and therefore it will be
in vain to form long directions for such a nativity. These points
are said to be afflicted or unfortunate, when either the conjunction,
quartile, or opposition of the infortunes vitiate their places, or when
many violent fixed stars of the nature of J? or $ ascend with the
degree ascending, or with the luminaries.
The (I besieged between T? and $ argues short life.
Signs of Long Life.
If the in a birth by day, or the d in a birth by night, be
strong, free from affliction, and assisted by the fortunes, it shows
long life.
Signs of a Violent Death.
First, consider the © and d , secondly I? and $ , and their
signs, which are called violent, viz.v, Tti, Vf , zz, ^ , wherein fjhath
more signification unto death, $ to the kind thereof: next regard
the fixed stars of the nature of T? and $ , the principal whereof are
Caput Algol in 23, 27 » , Oculus & in 5, 43' n, Hercules 20, 30'
©, Right Shoulder of Orion in 25, 59' n, Cor nt in 6, 15' $>
Chaelse in 11, 15' ni.
Both the luminaries with violent fixed stars, and within the defi-
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 325
ance of five degrees, threaten a violent death : the <X with Cor nt,
and the with Oculus S > without doubt declares a violent death.
Secondly, both the luminaries unfortunated by T? and $ , so that
one of the lights and one of the infortunes be in a violent sign, or
with a violent fixed star, portend a violent death.
If both the luminaries be afflicted only by one of the infortunes,
the other infortune being impedited or posited in a violent sign, it
threatens violent death.
The d of ^ and $ in an angle, especially in the mid-heaven in
a violent sign, infesting only one of the lights, threatens a violent
death.
The 6 ) n , (? , or mutual aspect of the infortunes, in other signs as
well as in the violent, but in angles, portend a violent death.
A malevolent planet in the eighth, and both the lights or either
of them afflicted in a violent sign, portends violent death.
The <[ in the 7th, in signs where fixed stars of a violent nature
are placed, viz. & , n , ©, $ , and in n or £ of 0, or an evil planet
posited in the eighth : these are arguments of a violent death.
But, notwithstanding all the precedent rules are to be admitted, yet,
if one of the fortunes be in the eighth house, all fear of a sudden or
violent death is taken away.
The Manner or Kind of a Violent Death.
Saturn properly, according to his own nature, denotes death by
drowning, shipwreck, ruin of old buildings, and poison.
$9at0, by fire, iron, thunder or lightning, shot of guns, stroke of
horses : both of them by some fall from on high or strangling.
Nature of the Signs in this Manner of Judgment.
Fiery signs, <y>, Q>> t > by fire, thunder, lightning, gun-shot.
Airy signs, n,^,^,fall from on high, beheading, strangling,
and hanging.
Watery signs, ®, v\, X, drowning.
Earthly signs, « , rp? , y?, by rain, casualty, or falls.
Human signs, n, £=, tz, denote death by a man, as by arms or
violeuce.
326 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY,
Nature of the Houses,
Tenth house, death by command of the magistrate.
Twelfth, by horses or great cattle, or privy murders.
Sixth, by servants, slaves, or neighbours.
Where two, three, or more testimonies concur, be more confident,
as if $ , author of death, be in a fiery sign, the death will be by fire,
sword, &c.
But, for the more perfect judging of the quality, and by what
means a violent death shall come, I have collected out of eminent
authors, together with my own judgment, such aphorisms as they
and myself have found true by experience.
Rules of gatUm and M&V&.
gatum in X and the d in tt£ or ^ in a watery sign, and the <L
in <9 to him, shows the native will die by water, viz. be drowned, or
else die by excess of drinking.
J^atumin nt> in C5 with $ , and the G in r?£, making application
to them, declare the native will be suffocated or drowned.
J^aturn in the watery triplicity, and the conjoined with him,
.
either by <3 , Q, or £>, are great arguments of drowning, more es-
pecially in the eighth.
j^atum in the seventh, in <£ to the or (, shows death by
imprisonment, sluttishness, poison, poverty, fear, torments in a dun-
geon, or by some violent fall, or in exile, &c.
^aturn in the tenth house, in § to the light of time, declares
death by the fall of houses, but, if a watery sign be on the fourth, by
water.
jtatum and $ in the twelfth imports death or danger by great
beasts.
Ceo, or $ on the cusp of the twelfth, and a planet unfortunate
therein, signify the native will receive a fall from a horse, and so die.
Saturn in $ , in the eighth, imports the same.
Saturn and $ , in the seventh, in a common sign, and the C in <£
to them, declares death by a sudden fall.
Saturn in the seventh, with $ . and in evil aspect to $ , denotes
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 327
But observe, a benevolent planet mitigates these judgments.
£JFar0 in the seventh, in <y>, $1, or /, imports burning alive.
gF'810 in the seventh in feral signs, such as Si and the last past of
f , declares death by ruins, or fall of timber or houses, or from falls
by beasts or horses.
Q£ar0 in fiery signs in n to f? in ®, m, or X> denotes death by
scalding or hot water.
In each of these significations, you must have one or both of the
luminaries in evil configuration with him, or otherwise the judg-
ment is but of small import.
If the lord of death he joined by body to the significator of life, or
the joined to the d in Sit or t > wi tn $ aspecting them ; or the
or d joined with a fixed star of the nature of $ , the native will
be in danger of death by fire ; if T?, instead of $ , behold the lumi-
naries, the native will be suffocated with smoke.
All these I have found verified in many nativities ; but, when none
of these testimonies occur, the native will die a natural death.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XIX.
THE FORTUNE OF WEALTH.
If the significators of substance—namely, the luminaries and their
dispositers—be placed in angles, or the greater part of them, and be
also well placed, it is an argument the native shall attain a very
great estate, have plenty of all things, and be necessitated in no-
thing ; and the more testimonies you find of this nature, the more
judgment must be given of the greatness or weakness of the estate
of the native.
If moderately fortified, the native shall not exceed or want, or if
with Regulus, or Spica n£, or the fortunes in good houses of heaven.
The d fortunate in the ascendant gives wealth and estimation all
the life long.
The and & in A> © then in his exaltation, neither of them
afflicted by T? or $ ,
give ample testimonies of a large fortune.
328 THE ASTROXOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
The same if both the luminaries are in A to each other from mas-
culine signs, and both in A to the likewise.
3fupiter in the 2nd, and the d in the 1st, or % in the ascendant,
and the <l in the 2nd, promises wealth.
The conjoined with % predicts an increase of wealth.
Saturn in a diurnal geniture in the 8th, in good aspect with ei-
ther of the fortunes, gives an increase of substance by the death of
relatives or friends.
If the is in the 8th, and fortunate, wealth comes by deceased
persons.
If T? is well posited, and essentially strong, and aspect the ascen-
dant with a mundane A> the native becomes rich by lands, orchards,
fields, and pastures.
If J? is posited fortunately in the 4th house, and is direct swift in
motion, and in good aspect with the fortunes, it foreshows the na-
tive shall acquire an ample fortune by managing quarries and mines
where metals, coals, stones, or minerals are to be obtained ; the
more potent he is, the more gain may be expected, and more evi-
dently the effects will appear.
3fupiter in the 4th in £±, promiseth the native much wealth out of
the bowels of the earth, by tin especially, and argues a good inhe-
ritance or personal estate from the father ; without doubt, in this
judgment, I? is most to be prefered when he happens to be in the
4th house in ~, and % shall then be in =^.
$®&18 in the 4th house in ft, and the in <y>, is absolutely very
promising for the native to deal in iron mines, silver mines, or gold
mines.
The time when the native may expect an increase of wealth or the
goods of fortune is best discovered by the significators and 0, di-
rected to benefic promittors, unto the (3, >fc, or A of % or 9; yet,
if any desire to know in a general way, let him consider in what
quarter of heaven he finds any of the aforesaid significators of riches,
as especially him that is most fortified ; for the significators oriental
of the import quickness, and the time sooner; but occidental of
the 0, nearer old age : retrograde planets signify the same thing,
—
viz. they retard; the planets direct and swift in motion hasten the time.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 329
On the contrary, all thesignificators of substance weak declare po-
verty.
The d in <3 with ^ , in an angle or succedent, though the native
were ever so rich, yet shall he be reduced to poverty.
The n or $ of F? and the d destroys the substance.
Generally, they who have the moon in square to Jupiter, or in con-
junction with $©ar0, are found to acquire much wealth, but are par-
ticularly liable to be cheated and defrauded, and at some period of
their lives become great losers.
Also 3(upiter. or 2Jenu0, with the 01m, causes great waste of money,
and it is rarely that the native can save any property. 3(upuet is
much afflicted under the sunbeams.
The moon in conjunction, parallel, or good aspect, to Hfupitet, is a
sign of riches. The square gives money, but causes great profusion
and waste thereof.
The part of fortune with Jupiter is always a token that the native
is born to great wealth.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XX.
THE FORTUNE OF RANK.
The most assured testimonies of rank and worldly honours are
these :
—
The luminaries angular and in cardinal signs, attended by a satel-
litium of the live erratics, are famous positions ; and it is generally
found that when more than two or three planets are within 60 degrees
of the 0un, on either side of him, the native is born to eminent dig-
nities, and will have a posthumous reputation.
All the planets above the earth in the day-time is an authenticated
and evident symbol of extensive fame, great honour, power, and
eminence ; the same by night, if all the planets be subterranean,
and more especially if near the 0.
A celebrated author observes that he who has the planets thus
placed shall, like a comet, outshine all his cotemporaries.
The © or d , with an eminent fixed star of the first magnitude,
is a tuken of eminent dignity and great renown.
330 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
T? and $, or ^ and f? in conjunction, in good aspect to %,
raises the native to some remarkable command ; and, if these two
evil stars are angular, and ill placed, the native will be noted for in-
famy.
Four or more planets in conjunction, in any sign, cause at different
times of life the most powerful changes.
The or d in the mid-heaven, or ascendant, give great honour
and dignity, totally unexpected.
£ in GTajimi, or even within 30 degrees of the ©, gives literary
eminence, and yet mixed with vexation from obscure persons, cri-
tics, '&c. Yet in the end the native triumphs.
The in square to %, from fixed signs, gives wealth and honour
in youth, but towards the end of life gives poverty and disgrace.
Several planets in the ascendant in a fixed or moveable sign cause
great preferment, but attended with trouble.
If % be squared by T? , y , or $ , from fixed signs, the native is always
in some kind of trouble and constraint, and cannot escape imprison-
ment at several periods of his life.
J? or $ , in the mid-heaven, or 11th house, gives success in the
middle age, but afterwards a bankruptcy and imprisonment of a
temporary duration.
The d squared by $ from common signs, and T? in the very
middle of the 8th house, in sesquiquadrate to the ascendant, is a
token of perpetual poverty and an ill name.
An opposition of T? or $ , or a square of these two evil stars,
causes a climax of troubles and rapid succession of evils ; but gives
public notice at several periods of life.
% and $ in conjunction, in a fixed sign, is a symbol of eminence
amongst scientific men ; and the native is generally a favourite with
the fair sex, and makes great conquests amongst them, but chiefly
amongst those females who are previously engaged.
$ and $ , in conjunction, give a literary fame or renown in the arts
;
as also does $ in ^, near the mid-heaven. And
7£ and $ , in conjunction, generally give a posthumous reputa-
tion for scientific discoveries.
Generally, they who have the luminaries in scxtile, trine, con-
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 331
junction, or mundane parallel to 2£, go through life with case, and,
if the nativity be destitute of quartiles or oppositions, the native will
lead a life of great comfort and quietness : almost every undertaking
will eventually produce good fortune, and they will experience good
even from the appearance of evil ; while, on the contrary, those
whose genitures have many squares or opposite aspects are evidently
born to trouble, "even as the sparks fly upwards."
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXL
©f JWarrfas*.
In this place we should consider with close attention the significa-
tors of marriage,—namely, the d and $ : if these planets be in bar-
ren signs, viz. n, ft, nji> and also in cadent houses, viz. 6th, 9th,
12th, or even in the 8th, these testimonies import either a single life
or an averseness to marriage.
If the significators, but especially the d and $ , are not so con-
stituted, see, then, if either of them is weak or little fortified, con-
joined to T? , he being very- potent, $ herself alone not having the
support of any planet by a good aspect; and, if you find the d po-
sited in a barren sign, or cadent house, or extremely afflicted : these
are arguments of no marriage, nor any desire thereto. But in this
judgment you must always understand that f? ought to be very
strong ; for, if $ and the d be more fortified than J? , then the pre-
ceding judgment holds not true.
So when in a nativity you find T? more elevated than either the
d or $ , and no planet assisting either of them, you may judge the
native's inclination for a single life.
You must remember that the other significators of marriage are
also to be examined, viz. whether they be in barren signs or cadent
houses, or much afflicted, and in d with T? , and he well fortified ;
for, if the testimonies of these significators agree with the affliction
of the d and $ , without doubt, the native will then never marry.
The d in \\\, in a of T? , he in & or # , d combust of the 0,
332 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
and in o or <£ to J? , if she is in yp, ~, or £±, the native never
marries.
The D or <£ of $ and J? helps much to a single life ; the C as
well as $ being in a barren sign, and cadent house, and some of the
other significators either unhappily placed in bad houses or unfruit-
ful signs.
The Testimonies of Marriage are these
:
The sign of the 7th, a prolific sign.
A benevolent planet in the 7th.
The D and $ in fruitful signs, and in the 1st, 5th, 10th or 1 1th
houses.
To know whether the native will obtain his wife with ease, or much
difficulty, you must consider all the qualities of the significators of
marriage, wherein if you find the greater part of them fortunate pla-
nets, or well fortified, he shall then easily obtain his wife ; if they be
weak, and are signified by the infortunes, then not without labour
and difficulty ; but, if they be all imbecile and ill affected, then shall
he make love unto many, and be as oft deluded, and in conclusion
have much difficulty in procuring a wife : in that nativity where $ is
not in some good aspect with $ , the party shall suffer many incon-
veniences in his loves or affections.
Again, the nature of the significators is to be considered ; for the
benevolent planets do promise happy success : the greater happiness,
the stronger they are : the malevolent usually much labour, although
they are very powerful. I have ever observed, that when T? and $
are in § out of the 1st and 7th houses, or when T? alone hath been
near the cusp of the 7th ; or when $ hath been in SI or m., and not
in aspect of $ , or when $ hath been in & , tip. or yf , in the 7th,
whether in aspect to $ or not, the native had extraordinary diffi-
culty to procure a wife, and married at last upon a sudden, but yet
prone to women.
The Time of Marriage,
If all the significators of marriage, or the greater part, and amongst
these the d , is oriental of the 0, and in oriental quarters of heaven,
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 333
viz. 10th, 11th, 12th, 4th, 5th, and 6th houses, then the native shall
marry in youth, or after his more mature years shall espouse a
young woman.
If the significators be occidental of the 0, and in occidental quar-
ters of heaven, viz. 9th, 8th, 7th, 1st, 2nd, and 3rd, he shall either
then very late contract matrimony, or else in his youth marry a wi-
dow, or one very aged.
Besides this, observe the motion of the significators, for, if they
be direct and swift in motion, they declare marriage in youth ; but, if
they be retrograde, slow in motion, or stationary, they prolong the
time.
The more special time is best adjudged from the directions of the
mid-heaven to the <$ , sfc, n, or A of 9 j if she was strong in the
radix, or to the same aspects with d ; or, by direction of 0, direct
and converse to the body, * , a , or A of d or $ ; or by direction of
d to any of the premised aspects of the or $ : if the G be
directed to a n or § of the © or (J, see if it does not fall in aspect
to a fortune, for, if not, the direction will be of no force.
Testimonies of the Number of Wives,
If all the significators of marriage be in watery signs, which we
usually term fruitful, for the most part they note many wives, or more
than one ; the contrary, if posited in n, ft, or fl£.
The d conjoined to one planet only, whether by platic or partile
aspect, denotes only one wife : where observe, when she is thus joined
to only one planet, and is stronger than the planet with whom she is
in aspect, the man outlives his wife ; but, if the planet to whom the
([ is joined is more powerful than the (I , the husband dies before
the wife.
If the <t is bodily joined to no planet, consider how many planets,
and they direct and free from combustion, and not in their detriment
or fall, do behold her with a partile aspect, but so as C apply to
them, and not they to her (the O here is not considerable) ; from
thence you may conjecture of the number of wives ; you must consi-
der the quality of the signs wherein the planets are that aspect the (T
,
for fruitful signs double the number.
334 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
The most approved method I have hitherto found by experience is
this : consider how many planets there are in the sign the (£ is in,
she applying to them, and not separated ; so many wives the native
may expect: if no such bodily presence be, observe how many pla-
nets, having dignities in the sign she is in, do behold her with a par-
tile aspect ; so many wives may be hoped for, &c.
Observe this general rule about wives : if the significators be weak,
they argue sweethearts and amours, or such as he may woo for
wives, rather than marriage itself: again, if the ([ apply to a planet
in a common sign, it argues two wives : if she be in a. fruitful sign,
and apply to a planet in a fruitful or bicorporal sign, it argues three
wives.
To know from whence or what Quarter the Native shall have his TVife,
observe the following Rules.
The significators of marriage in the 9th or 3rd house, or else pe-
regrine, having no essential dignities, portend the native shall marry
a stranger, and not one born in the same county or country he himself
was born in.
Signs of a Good Wife,
The happy aspect of % to $ or d , with reception, in dignities
equivalent, shows a wealthy wife, and marriage with a person of great
birth. ,
$ or % in the 8th argues a rich wife, and born to have an inherit-
ance very ample.
Royal fixed stars of first magnitude, near the cusp of the 7th, if the
cusp thereof be also fortunate, these testimonies argue a rich and
good-dispositioned wife.
Signs of III Fortune by a Wife.
Malignant planets in the 7th, very strong, denotes riches with a
wife, but not attainable without some scandal or trouble.
The infortunes much debilitated in the 7th, denote wives, or a
wife very poor, of an abject and sordid condition and birth.
It is not good for the native that either T? or <? be in the 7th, unless
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS, 335
the fortunes aspect them, and be not cadent from the house ; for f?
causes sorrow and travel in the matter of marriage, and $ shows
their death and destruction before the native.
©enufl in n or § of d signifies prejudice by marriage.
GXewB in the 2nd, in an evil aspect of the malevolent planets, de-
clares detriment by reason of the wife.
The d afflicted denies any great felicity in marriage.
Concord and Disagreement.
To know the mutual love and concord between man and wife, you
must consider the planet or planets showing the number of wives,
whether they be fortunes, and behold the d with a friendly aspect
;
if so, they do declare much love, sweet society, and that perpetual
goodwill shall continually be between them. But, if they be malevo-
lent by nature, and have a n or <? to d , they will fall out upon
every slight occasion, nor will there be ever any perfect unity between
them.
If a benevolent planet aspect the d with an evil aspect, the native
and his wife shall then agree but moderately, yet in more things they
will accord.
If a malevolent planet have a friendly aspect to the d , they will
agree but indifferently, and will be subject to disagree in most things
;
for, as the evil aspect of the fortunes hurts but little, so the benevolent
aspect of the infortunes tends to ill.
The most assured means to know the agreement or disagreement
of man and wife is, by comparing their genitures together, if they
can be procured ; wherein, if you find the 0, in the wife's geniture,
to be the sign and degree the d was in, in the man's, or if the d in
the wife's is the place of the © in the man's, it is a very good sign
of unity and concord.
Or, if the significators of marriage are in ^ or Aj tney snow unity
and affection: and so contrary aspects, contrary affections.
$ with 1? beholding $ , there will arise jealousies between the
native and his wife.
$ in the 12th, designs but ill marriage; if % be also in the 12th,
the wife brings but little fortune.
336 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
$ , when she is in ill aspect with the d or the infortunes, shows
dissension between man and wife by reason of lasciviousness, &c.
$ , in a moveable sign, argues an inconstant man in affection, nor
will he be content with one woman, especially if the d or she be in
03 or yj> : $ , in a common sign, argues delight in marriage.
If the aspects between the and d be evil, and an infortune have
a n or g to one or both, they perpetually disagree. The d de-
creasing in light, and in <$ of $ in-a moveable sign, the native's wife
never truly loved him, but some other man.
In a Female Nativity, the Testimonies of Marriage arc these : —
If the significator in a woman's nativity be fruitful, strong in for-
tunate houses, and in good aspect of the fortunes, they then promise
marriage : but, if the significators be barren, placed in unfortunate
houses, weak and afflicted of the malevolents, they argue no marriage
:
2 being occidental in the 7th house, and ^ in the 4th, in a woman's
geniture, argue the woman hath no great desire to marry.
If the and d be in masculine signs, or in the same masculine
quarter of heaven, or in one and the same sign, it being masculine,
the woman will be a virago, will not care for men, and, if she chance
to marry, will prove a refractory wife.
The special time of marriage is discerned by direction of the mid-
heaven or ; the general time by the : for, if he be in oriental
quadrants, he denotes marriage in youth either to a young or old
man, or after their full age with a young man: if the be in occi-
dental quarter, he notes it will be long before she marries, and then
with an old man.
The number of husbands is taken from the position of the 0, who,
in a sign of one form, or in aspect with one oriental planet, notes she
will marry but one. The in a sign of many forms, or in aspect to
many oriental planets, shows she will marry more than once.
The agreement is discerned from the significators of marriage being
in mutual reception, or in 5^ or A to one another, or in good aspect
with the fortunes, they then show unity. Contrary aspects, and the
significators in the 12th, 6th, or 8th, portend no concord.
337
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXII.
©f ©j&USrcm
Aphorisms for determining Issue.
The <J and g in the 5th, and signs wherein they are, free from all
manner of impediment, denotes many children.
Huna in the 5th promises children, but if T? be therein in the same
house, they will prove ill-conditioned.
If the sign of the 5th and sign ascending be prolific, many chil-
dren are promised.
3fupiter in A to d , in humane or moist signs, gives children.
C@oon and $ with % in an angle, or in aspect from angles, signifies
many children.
oiemitf and ([ in the fifth house, especially in a fruitful sign, gives
much issue, and declares the children to prove well.
All the planets in fruitful signs give abundance of children.
(Hernia in the 1st or 7th, in 6 or § to J? , or if fc be in & , and
$ in vj\ it argues barrenness to men, and abortion to women; or
that what is produced shall die ere it has seen the light.
Saturn in the 5th, and the in n to %, denies issue.
&oI with T? and $ in the 11th or 5th, aspecting the <J , show the
native will die without having children, or, if any be born, they die
suddenly.
Aphorisms showing the Death of Issue,
Saturn and $ in the 5th and 11th, are arguments the children of
the native shall not live long.
Sol having dominion in the 5th, joined to an infortune, leaves not
one child alive.
Sol, T? , and § , in ^ in the mid-heaven, in n or § of d , kills
the children.
$9ar0 in § to %± either kills the children, or denotes an ill death
to them; so also doth 1£ when in § to J? , he then kills the greater
part of them.
^ercurp in the ascendant, and T? in the west, declares the children
will live but a short time.
z
338
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXIII
<Bn tf)t CBtualttg of tf)t JJrofeggion.
The lord of the profession is taken two ways, from the ©, and the
sign which hath dominion of the mid-heaven. Therefore, we ought
to observe the star that maketh oriental appearance next to the © ;
and that which agrees with the medium-coeli, either therein or in
familiarity thereto, chiefly when it respects the application of the
d : and, if one and the same star hath power in both respects, we
take that alone, for what is inquired after; and, if it is not found in
both respects, but only in one of the two, that alone shall be taken
;
but, if one next appear before the © , and another be in the mid-
heaven, and hath familiarity with the G , both shall be taken ; but he
shall be preferred who is the most strong unto the dominion.
If none be found making application, nor in the mid -heaven, he
that hath dominion of the medium-coeli we take as the proper signifi-
cator of the office, exercise, or study to which the native will be agree-
able to apply himself : at least, when we know the business is com-
modious to the situation in life ; because some are born for idleness
from the constitution of their stars ; and the things which concern
the lord of the action are thus investigated.
The kind of profession will be made known by the properties
of the three stars,—that is, when they have dominion of the profession,
viz. £ , $ , and $ , and the signs in which they are : for $ makes
scribes, managers of business, calculators, masters, dealers, exchangers,
diviners, astrologers, and those who live by learning and interpreta-
tion, and the stipends and gifts of others : and, if T? give testimony
to him, they will be stewards to others, or interpreters of dreams, or
conversant in churches for the sake of divination and enthusiasm ; if
If. give testimony, they will be limners, orators, sophisters, conversant
with great personages.
If $ have dominion of the profession, she will make those con-
versant with the scent of flowers, unguents, and wines, colours, tinc-
tures, spices ; as unguent-makers, plaiters of garlands, vintners, apo-
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 339
thecaries, weavers, 'sellers of spices, limners, dyers, sellers of gar-
ments : and, if T? give testimony to her, she will make men dealers
in things which relate to pleasure and adorning, sorcerers, poisoners,
deceivers, and those that deal in such like : but, if % give testimony
to her, they will be champions, bearers of armory, promoted to honour
by favour of the women.
But £ ruling the profession, configurated with 0, he will make
those who work at the fire, as cooks, founders, burners, breakers,
workers about mettles: but being with the 0, he makes shipwrights,
carpenters, husbandmen, stone-cutters, cutters of wood, under work-
men. If T? give testimony to him, he makes seamen, emptiers of
vaults, feeders of beasts, cooks, butchers. If % give testimony, he
will make soldiers, servants, tax-gatherers, innkeepers, custom-
gatherers, sacrificers.
Again, two being found rulers of the profession together, if they be
£ and $ , they make musicians, causers of melody, and they that
are busied about instruments, songs, and' poetry, and chiefly when
they change places : for then they make stage-players, actors, buyers
of men, instrument-makers, dancers, players on stringed instruments,
caperers, alias tumblers, workers in wax, painters : and, if fy give
testimony to them, he will make with those mentioned those that deal
in women's ornaments : and, if % give testimony, they will be lawyers,
employed in the commonwealth, teachers of children, rulers of the
commons.
If $ and g together be lords of the magistery, they will be makers
of statues, of armour, engravers of holy things, formers of animals,
wrestlers (Cardan says physicians), surgeons, accusers, adulterers,
evil-doers, forgers of writings : and, if T? give testimony to them,
they will be homicides, stealers of clothes, rapacious thieves, stealers
of cattle, conjurers.
If $ and o. together take the lordship, they will be dyers, oint-
ment-makers, workers in tin and lead, gold and silver, dancers in
armour, apothecaries, husbandmen, physicians curing by medicines:
and, if T? give testimony, they will take care of sacred animals, be
sextons, lamenters and pipers at funerals, enthusiasts, conversant in
mysteries, lamentations, and blood: and, if % give testimony, he will
z2
340 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
make men sacrifices, augurs, bearers of holy things, rulers of women,
interpreters, and they who live by such things.
Moreover, the quality of the signs in which the lords of the profes-
sion are, causes the variety of the profession; for they of the human
shape conduce to all those sciences and exercises which are for the
use of man ; but four-footed signs conduce to metallic arts, negotia-
tions, buildings, smiths' and carpenters' art ; tropical and equinoc-
tial signs, to interpretations, commutations, measuring, husbandry,
and priesthood ; earthy and watery signs, to arts conversant about
water, and by water, herbs, and ship-makers.
Again, the C properly possessing the place of profession, and hav-
ing a course with $ from the <j with 0, in $ , •<?, and ©, will
make diviners, sacrificers, diviners by basin ; in f and X she makes
mourners, and those moved by devils: in t?£ and \}\ magicians, as-
trologers, speakers of oracles, having foreknowledge j in ^, cp 9 and
SI, she makes enthusiasts, interpreters of dreams, and conjurers.
Therefore, the kinds of profession are distinguished by these ; but
the greatness thereof is manifested from the strength of the ruling
stars: for;
being oriental or angular, they make the profession power-
ful ; but occidental or declining from angles, makes them subordi-
nate.
If the benefics be superior, they will be great, gainful, firm,
glorious, and joyful. If the malefics be superior to the lords of the
profession, they will be mean, inglorious, unprofitable, and uncer-
tain.
Saturn, therefore, bringeth opposition by cold, and mixture of
colours (slowness and lukewarmness, says Cardan), but $ through
boldness and divulgation ; and both are opposite to the perfection of
the profession : but the general time of increase or diminution of arts
is judged from the disposition of the stars, which causes the effect
which they have in the respect of the oriental and occidental angles.
341
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXIV.
<&t ©labelling*
The things which concern travelling we consider from the position
of the luminaries to the angles; of both, but chiefly of the Q : for
the being Occident,* and declining from angles, causeth travelling and
change of places. And sometimes $ himself, occidental or declining
from the place of the mid-heaven, causeth the same, when in an
opposite or quartile aspect to the luminaries. If the (J) also falleth
in signs which cause travelling, the whole life, conversation, and
actions, will be spent in a foreign country.
Moreover, when the benefics behold the mentioned places, f or
succeed, the travelling life will be famous and profitable, and the
returns will be quick, and without hindrance. But, if the malefics
behold or succeed, the travelling will be hurtful and dangerous, and
the return difficult; but we ought everywhere to assume the tempe-
rament, and observe the stronger of the made configurations.
Moreover, if the signs which cause travelling be of one form, either
in respect to themselves, or the stars which have the lordships over
them, travelling will be rare, and not without some leisure ; but, if
they be double-bodied, or of two forms, they will be continual, and
in many times.
31upiter and $ !;eing, significators of travelling, the travelling Vv ill
not only be without danger, but also pleasant ; for by the governors of
those countries, and concourse of friends, he is sent away with plea-
sure, the constitution of the air and the plenty of necessaries favour-
ing.
If $ be joined to them, there will be an addition of gain, gifts, and
honours.
But T? and $ possessing the lights, especially if they are opposed
mutually to them, they will cause great dangers and unprofitable
travelling. But, being in moist signs, they will produce dangers by
* In the seventh house.
t That is, place of the 8unt
JIoo?i, Mars, and Tart of Fortune.
342 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
shipwrecks, or by desert and inaccessible places. In fixed, by pre-
cipices and contrary winds. In tropical and equinoctial, by want of
necessaries, and a sickly constitution of the air. In human-shaped,
by robbers, ambushes, and thefts. In earthly, by the increase of wild
beasts or earthquakes. But if £ concur, the danger will occur
through accusations, and creeping things and casters of venom.
Some are of opinion, that what is said of the lights must also be
understood of $ and the ®. But, though they are allowed to cause
travelling, and show the success of such travelling, yet the lumina-
ries alone and only do point out the quarter towards which the pere-
grination shall be.
The signs said to cause travelling are the signs in which the afore-
said significators of travelling are found.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXV.
©( lli'tmarfi 119tratton£*
Primary directions are arithmetical calculations of the time of
events, caused by the significator forming aspects with the places of
certain stars, and are of two kinds, zodiacal and mundane.
Zodiacal directions are founded upon the familiarities of the stars
among each other in the zodiac, subsequent to the time of the nati-
vity, and consist in calculating the distance of the place of a signifi-
cator in a nativity from the place he must arrive at before he can form
the aspect, which distance is called the arc of direction.
It must here be observed that, in directions, the place of a planet
in a nativity is called the planet itself, as they are found to impress
their natures on the places where they are found at the moment of
birth, as strongly as if they were continually present in that spot,
although they may be no longer there, when the significator arrives
:
thus, if we direct the © to a ^ of 1^., we mean to the radical situa-
tion of %, which always possesses his efficacy.
Mundane directions are different from the above, for they are wholly
independent of the zodiac, as much as if such a circle had never
ART OF FOUEKNOWING EVENTS. 343
existed, and only operate in respect of the world : for instance, the
in X > being on the cusp of the 1 1th house, would be in mundane
sextile to yf , on the cusp of the ascendant ; whereas, in respect to the
zodiac, he would have no aspect to that point at all. Thus, the mun-
dane aspects are measured by the arcs and semi-arcs of the planets,
and have nothing to do with calculations in the zodiac.
The mundane aspects are undoubtedly most wonderfully strong and
powerful, particularly in squares and trines, and will amply repay the
young student for learning the theory thereof.
It was formerly the custom to calculate these directions by figures,
a tedious and incorrect arithmetical process ; which is now, in a great
measure, superseded by the discovery of the zodiacal planisphere, an
instrument not to be surpassed in any way, even by the best trigono-
metrical calculations, and by which the labour of a month, accord-
ing to the old system, can be performed in the space of a day, or
sometimes in a few hours, with surprising exactness. It also shows
at one view the various aspects, declinations, arcs, &c.
The measure of time now used in equating the arcs of direction is
that invented by Valentine Naybad, giving to every degree of the
arc one year and five days.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXVI.
THE SIGNIFICATION OF SEVERAL FIXED STARS IN
NATIVITIES.
Ten thousand suns appear,
Of elder beam ; which ask no leave to shine
Of our terrestrial star, nor borrow light
From the proud regent of our scanty day.
Bardauld.
Fields of radiance, whose unfading light
Has travelled the profound six thousand years,
Nor yet arrived in sight of mortal things.
THEsignificator of substance, or cusp of the 2nd, ®,orwithRegulus
or with Arista, denotes riches, wealth, and honour.
The significators of substance, or ®, in <$ with Aldebarau or Caput
344 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Algol, show loss of estate and poverty. The © or d with the Pleiades,
or Proesepe, Antares, or Deneb, the native will suffer some hurt or
defect in his eyes ; and it is incurable if that light be angular. The
d in <3 with Cingula Ononis, and combust, shows blindness of one
eye at least.
The significators of honour, in <5 , or within 5° of d forward or
backward, with Aldebaran, or with Hercules, Regulus, Arista, Lanx
Boreales, or Antares, show great honour and preferment. The
or d in d with the Pleiades or the Hyades, shows military prefer-
ment; the same if those stars culminate. Caput Algol culminating
gives the native authority over others. Aldebaran or Antares in ^ of
or d 9 in the ascendant or 10th, give the native honour, but with
many difficulties and casualties. Arista ascending or culminating
gives the native religious preferment. Fomahaut and Rigel, in the
ascendant, gives an immortal name. Regulus or Arcturus in ^ of
0, C , or 71, in the 10th, give ample fortunes and very great pre-
ferment. Syrius or Procyon, in £ with in the ascendant, or
10th, gives royal preferment and favour.
One or both of the luminaries in <$ with Caput Algol, or with
Aldebaran, Hercules, or Antares, presage a violent death. in ^
with Caput Algol in the 8th, in n or ^ to $ , the native will be in
danger of losing his head; if the light culminates, he may die by some
wound, d with Hercules or Arcturus, in the ascendant, 7th, or 10th,
in (5 with $ , the native will he in danger of being suffocated. d
with Antares, and $ in the 4th, 7th, 11th, or 12th houses with
Aldebaran, the native will die by the sword, or by a blow or a sud-
den fall. d with Antares, in g to T? with Aldebaran, shows that, if
the native be not hanged, he will at least die a violent death. T? or
$ with Caput Algol, and the d with Deneb or the Tail of the Lion,
he dies by the sentence of the judge. The d with Cor Hydra, af-
flicted by T? or $ , he will be in danger of poison or of drowning;
and, if the infortune be angular, it is so much the more certain. The
d with Procyon, and the or g with Lucida Vulturis, or Fomahaut,
shows danger of being bit by a venomous beast. The d with Syrius,
and T? or $ with Ultima in ala Pegasi, gives a violent death by the fury
of violent beasts or martial men. The d with Cingula Orionis and r? ,
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 345
or Caput Hercules or Antares, shows the native will be in danger of
perishing by water or by wicked persons. The d with the Pleiades,
and ]? or $ with Regulus, shows the loss of one or both the eyes;
and this judgment is confirmed if d at the same time be combust.
The Pleiades in <$ with $ , and Regulus with T? are eminent signifi-
cations of a violent and untimely death. Fixed stars of the 1st mag-
nitude near the cusp of the 7th, show a good and rich wife ; but her
condition will much sympathize with the nature of the stars signifi-
cators, joined with fixed stars of the 1st or 2nd magnitude, near the
ecliptic, shew great preferment and eminent honours. Fixed stars
of the nature of b , in <$ with the 0, involve the native in a succes-
sion of troubles by repeated affliction. Fixed stars of the nature of
$ and 0, or $ and d , give glory and renown; of the nature of
% and 5 , or g and $ , honour and wealth. Fixed stars in angles,
especially with the benefics, give admirable preferment, and many
great gifts, and elevate from poverty to an extreme height of for-
tune.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXVll.
Of Zmnsits.
A transit is the passing of any planet over the body or aspect
of any promittor or radical significator in a nativity. That transits
have a peculiar effect in nativities is well known to all who have paid
any attention to the subject ; and yet they have also at times unac-
countably failed. This failure of transits in some cases, and their
remarkable truth in others, has afforded us much consideration, for
we find that all transits seem to have their proper effect when made
on or near the birth-day, thus justifying, in a great degree, the
opinion which the ancient astrologers had of the revolutional figure,
or the sun's return to the original place which he occupied in the
radix : the reason of which is plain, as all astrological calculations
are made from the geocentric positions of the planets.
Now, when Jupiter or uUuufl shall transit the principal angles, as
the mid-heaven, ascendant, or the places of the 8un and moon, these
346 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
times will be attended with singular success, provided they are not in
evil aspect to datum, £J£ar0, or {^erscijcl ; for then, instead of good,
evil may be expected ; but, if 3Iupiter or WLtnu0 should be in good
aspect with each other without the interposition of malefic rays, the
good becomes doubled. If t&ersc&el, Saturn, or £jjaw, shall transit
the mid-heaven, the ascendant, or the places of the luminaries, by good
aspect, and they are in favourable aspect to Jupiter or fl3tnti0 at the
same time,without any aspect to each other, they produce good to the
native : if by evil rays, as the conjunction, square, or opposition, they
portend bad ; but if they be in good aspect to the benefics at the same
time, this will soften their malignant influence, and that planet which
gives testimony by good aspect signifies the means by which the
native will be assisted. But, in this mode of judgment, special regard
ought to be had to those days in which the aspects are most com-
plete.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXVIII.
<&f StcottBara Mlmttottg.
Bv secondary directions, we are to understand those configurations
and familiarities of the planets which arise daily from the time of
birth, and are applied to the prediction of events that are to come to
pass in the same succession of years from the birth as correspond
with those days. For example, all aspects of the stars, both to the
luminaries and cardinal houses, that happen on the first day after
birth, are applied to the first year ; those of the second day after
birth, to the second year ; those of the third day to the third year,
and so on in progressive rotation, as far as this speculation can ex-
tend.
In the management of these directions we are principally to observe
what configurations the Q has to the other planets ; for if she be joined
with benefic stars, or irradiated by their good aspects, or even by
the good aspects of the infortunes, it denotes a happy, healthful, and
prosperous year to the native, in nature and quality peculiar to the
principal significator in each configuration, and to the houses and
Afcf OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 347
signs in which they fall in the radical figure. But, on the contrary,
if C be joined to malevolent stars, or irradiated by them, or in parallel
declination of the infortunes, it forebodes to those years pointed out
by the days in which these evil configurations happen, great afflic-
tions either in mind, body, or estate ; and, if a primary direction
should correspond with them, of the same malignant nature, a com-
plication of temporal misfortunes will most probably ensue.
In the consideration of these directions, we are particularly to attend
to the critical days and climacterical years ; for at those times the
good or evil configurations of the planets are most powerful in their
operation. If, upon either of those occasions, the d be found in n
or (9 to the place in which she was posited at the time of birth, and
an evil primary direction of the signification of life correspond there-
with, death is then at the door, or at that time very much to be feared
even in the strongest constitutions, or however healthy they may
appear to be when they begin to take effect.
And so, likewise, if or d , in the secondary directions, be afflicted
by the malignant rays of inauspicious configurations, with an evil pri-
mary direction, with which both the revolution and transit agree, it
is considered an irrevocable indication of death to the native.
These secondary directions have always been in reputation among
the Arabs and Egyptians, who, in common practice, prefer this me-
thod of predicting from the genethliacal figure, to the more compli-
cated and laborious mode of calculation by the primary directions.
The former practice has doubtlessly the advantage in point of expedi-
tion; for, by the use of it in those countries, they will, upon the bare
inspection of a nativity, give an account of the general and particu-
lar incidents during the whole course of the native's life. It is a
doctrine much on a level with that of horary questions, and may be
used to give a general idea of the native's figure of birth, and of
his probable bent of fortune, where time or circumstances will not
admit of particular calculations.
348
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXIX.
DISSERTATIONS
ON THE
PART OF FORTUNE.
The circumstances regulating the fortune of wealth are to be j udgcd
of from that part alone which is expressly denominated the Part of
Fortune ; the position of which is, in all cases, whether arising; in the
day or in the night, always as far removed from the ascendant as the
jeun is distant from the moon.
When the Part of Fortune has been determined, it must be ascer-
tained to what planets the dominion of it belongs; and their power
and connection, as also the power and connection of others configu-
rated with them, or in elevation above them, whether of the same or
of an adverse condition, are then to be observed : for, if the planets
which assume dominion of the Part of Fortune be in full force, they
will create much wealth, and especially should the laminaries also
give them suitable testimony in addition.
In this manner, Saturn will effect the acquirement of wealth by
means of buildings agriculture, or navigation; 3Uipiter, by holding
some government or office of trust, or by the priesthood ; C@sr0, by
the army and military command ; Cienutf, by means of friends, by the
dowry of wives, or by other gifts proceeding from women ; and
SJOercurg by the sciences and trade.
Should Saturn, however, when thus in influence over the fortune of
wealth, be also configurated with 3Jupitcr, he particularly provides
wealth through inheritance; especially, if the configuration should
exist in the superior angles, Jupiter being also in a bicorporal sign,
and receiving the application of the moon ; for, in such a case, the
native will also be adopted by persons unallied to him, and will be-
come heir to their property.
And, further, if other stars, of the same condition as those which
rule the Part of Fortune, should likewise exhibit testimonies of domi-
nion, the wealth will be permanent ; but, on the other hand, if stars
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 349
of an adverse condition should either be in elevation above the ruling
places, or ascend in succession to them, the wealth will continue.
The general period of its duration is, however, to be calculated by
means of the declination of the stars, which operate the loss, in
respect of the angles and succedent houses.*
Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos, Book 4, Chap. 2.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXX.
TO CALCULATE THE PART OF FORTUNE.
In the diurnal geniture, the tftm'a true distance from the east is
to he added to the moon's true right ascension, and, in the nocturnal,
subtracted ; for the number thence arising will be the place and
right ascension of the Part of Fortune ; and it always has the same
declination with the moon, both in number and name, wherever it is
found. Again, let the sun's oblique ascension, taken in the ascend-
ant, be subtracted always from the oblique ascension of the ascendant,
as well in the day as in the night, and the remaining difference be
added to the moon's right ascension: the sum will be the right ascen-
sion of the Part of Fortune, which will have the moon's declina-
tion.'^ [
Placidus de Titus.
ANOTHER WAY.
A much simpler and equally correct way of calculating the Part of
Fortune, is given in a late publication, viz. :
" To the oblique
ascension of the ascendant or horoscope, add the true oblique ascen-
sion of the moon, taken in the pole of the horoscope; and from this
sum subtract the sun's oblique ascension, likewise taken under the
same pole. The remainder will be the true oblique ascension of the
Part of Fortune." Astrological Dictionary.
* That is to say, its duration will depend on the time requisite to complete
the arc of direction, or prorogation between the stars operating the loss, and the
places which give the wealth.
t If the > is going from the conjunction to the opposition of the 0, then the
> follows the 0, and the Part of Fortune is always under the earth, from the
ascendant; but, if the > has passed the <? > she goes before the©, and the
Part of Fortune is before the ascendant, and always aboie the earth.
350
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXXI.
METHOD OF CALCULATING THE
lUart of ^Fortune
BY THE ZODIACAL PLANISPHERE.
To the above scientific methods of calculation, we will add the fol-
lowing, which is the most correct method that has been given of calcu-
lating the Part of Fortune by the planisphere (an instrument which,
we perceive, is now used by most of the artists of the present day,)
which is as follows : —In order to calculate the Part of Fortune by
the planisphere, extend the line of the moon'0 declination parallel
with the equator, to an indefinite length, both towards the
eastern and western horizons ; then take the true distance of the
mn from the ascendant, and, with this extent, place one point
of the compass on the place of the moon, and the place where
the other point touches on her declination is the mundane place of
the Pars Fortunes. In order to get its zodiacal place, draw its pole,
by the circular ruler (used for marking the cusps of the houses), and
where this polar line cuts the zodiacal line, the degree and minute of
the zodiac which answers thereto is the true place required.
It being an established rule,
As © : ascendant :: ) : 0,
or, in words, so far as the on the line of his declination is from the
ascendant, so far is the > , on the line of her declination, from the 0.
The is also the true place of the > , at sun-rising, and it may be
remarked, without fear of contradiction, that this point may be calcu-
lated more correctly by the zodiacal planisphere, than in any other
way whatever.
From the foregoing quotations cited from Ptolemy and Placidus,
two of the most ancient and renowned astrologers, it will be seen that
they placed ample dependence upon the effects of the Part of Fortune.
In modem times, it seems that this influence is rather doubted amongst
our English artists, some of whom have not scrupled to call the Part
of Fortune a "mere phantom," and an " imaginary point," with
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 351
other similar phrases equally intelligible to the experienced student.
Notwithstanding the assertions of these writers, we maintain that no
one who is unbiassed by prejudice can make trial of the supposed
effects of this point, without becoming soon convinced of its efficacy
and real influence over the fortunes of any particular native. Let any
one who disputes this point bring up the directions thereto, and, if he
finds the ® meet the or £ of T? , $ or $ , or even the D or g , without
some tremendous losses, or if he finds the ® directed to if. or $
,
without peculiar and extraordinary good and supereminent success
in his worldly affairs ; or if any one who had the ® angular in his ge-
niture, and unafflicted, did not become rich before the age of thirty
years : if they rightly calculate the ®, and find none of these effects
to take place, which we challenge them to produce a single authenti-
cated instance of, then, and only then, will it be their duty to cry
down its real effects as supposed, and to call it imaginary, delusive,
and void of reason. But, until they have done this, let them conceal
their ignorance of prognostic astronomy by using a dignified silence
upon matters they understand not. If the Part of Fortune be an ima-
ginary point, so is also more than two-thirds of the science ; for what
are the great circles of the zodiac but imaginary, in any part, when
the sun is not present ? And what are the aspects to fixed stars more
than hundreds of millions of miles distant from our earth, but imagi-
nary ? Nay, what are the points of the horizon, ascending and de-
scending, of the zenith, nodes, and the houses themselves, but ima-
ginary, since they leave no palpable traces of any such curvatures ?
Yet they do exist, and their influence is every day proved beyond the
possibility of a doubt. Let us hear no more, then, of imaginary
effects; for, least of all, should astrologers talk of referring remote
causes to a demonstrable standard, which never did, nor ever will,
exist.
Alfred.
352
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXXIL
OF REVOLUTIONS.
The period in which a star revolves round the 0tm or the earrl?
is the term generally applied to the annual period when the 01m comes
to the exact place wherein he was posited in the nativity ; and to
erect a revolutional figure is nothing more than to find the exact time
of the 0un'0 return to his radical place, and set a figure of the hea-
vens thereto.
There is a singular truth and much amusement, as well as instruc-
tion, in the theory of revolutions ; and the best way of judging them is,
first of all, to observe what planets are returned to their radical places,
and what planets are in sextile, trine, or other aspect thereto. These
will produce corresponding effects either good or evil, as the planets
so returning are benevolent or malevolent in signification. And the
effects thereof continue for some considerable time in active force,
being more powerful, according as the directions, both primary and
secondary, incline towards good or evil.
The second way is to calculate the figure according to the whole of
the dignities by house, exaltation, and triplicity, giving each its due
share of celestial influence, without any reference at all to the radix ;
and accordingly as the figure shall be constituted so will events be
found to concur.
This latter way the student will find extraordinarily correct.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXXIII.
Tlie Art of resolving all Lawful Horary-
Questions.
We have already laid down the fundamental rules of this depart-
ment of the science, which may be readily found under the proper
heads. It now remains to speak further of the method used in resolving
a question.
Horary Questions are questions asked at a certain hour. When
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 353
a person feels his mind seriously agitated concerning the result of
any undertaking or impending event. A figure of the heavens is then
erected for the minute in which the question is asked, when, if the
artist be skilful, and the querent sincere, and really anxious respect-
ing the result, there is little reason to doubt but the answer will, in
general, be true and satisfactory; the whole being the effect of that
sympathy which pervades all nature, and which is the fundamental
principle of all divination, under whatever form practised, where the
querent and the artist are sincere.
There is nothing in this either celestial or diabolical, meritorious
or criminal, good or evil : a person is equally justifiable in making an
inquiry into one thing as another ; and to propose a horary question
is an act as indifferent in itself, as to ask what it is o'olock: it contains
nothing supernatural, for it is nature itself, operating in its usual
way. It is, in fact, the same kind of sympathy which causes the
magnet and iron to approach each other; a detached portion of earth
to return towards the common centre ; the water to approach the
luminaries ; the child to approach the nipple ; the planets to revolve
round the sun ; the needle to point to the pole ; the husband to feel
the pain of gestation alternately with his wife, and to have milk in his
breasts at the time of parturition ; the mother to feel the draught
flow into her breasts some seconds before the child awakes ; the marks
imprinted on a child in the womb by the mother's wants or fears ; the
increasing or diminishing colour of a fruit-mark, as the fruit it repre-
sents is in or out of season; the turbulence Of wine at vintage-time;
the responsive sound of one musical instrument untouched to anothei
that is struck, and a thousand more instances, superfluous to men-
tion.
All instinct is sympathy, and the same common affinity betwee-n
various parts of matter, which induces rats to forsake a falling house,
ants to quit their nests, carrying their young with them, before an in-
undation, and dogs to foretell disasters, will enable a human being to
propose a horary question, at the instant of time when the heavens
are favorably disposed to give a solution.
2 A
354 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
THE TIME OF RECEIVING A QUESTION.
Many disputes have arisen about the proper time for the figure of a
horary question to be erected to. Some think, the moment when the
querent is first seen by the artist, others when he salutes him, others
when he inquires for him, &c. The true time, however, is that
moment when the question is asked ; or, if the artist cast his own
figure, it should be the moment when he determined on doing it,
whether he did it at that time or not : because it might not be done
for want of convenience.
Bonatus thought no artist could judge from his own figures, because
he must judge partially ; but of this he must be careful ; and certainly
no one ought to be so good a judge of his own feelings, and the pro-
per sympathetic sensation requisite to constitute a true figure, as an
artist.
Some, again, affirm, that the moment in which the querent ex-
periences such a sensation is the time for erecting the figure : but, if
the querent be not aware of this, the time cannot be directly known
;
and, therefore, the moment of his proposing the question is the true
moment, however long he may have been in the journey; for nature
and sympathy will amply provide for all this, and adapt the time to
trre circumstances. Thus, in case of a letter to such an effect being
received by an artist, however long it may have remained in his hands
unopened, the moment in which he comprehends its contents is the
moment to which the figure must be erected. Should, however, any
querent be aware of these things, and direct a figure to be made to
any particular time, to that time the figure must be erected.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXXIV.
2To molbt a pforarg <ffitu*st(onu
In resolving a question of this nature, the artist must, in the first
place, find out to which of the celestial houses the subject most pro-
perly belongs, which he will readily discover by referring to that
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 355
section which treats of the operation of the twelve houses. He must
then refer to the table of dignities, and by this means he will discover
the planets bearing rule over the subject in question, and its various
contingencies.
In the next place, the moon must be considered, for she is always
a powerful significator in subjects of this nature, and by her benevo-
lent influence conduces much to the performance of any demand.
Afterwards must be considered the various aspects, both for and
against the matter in hand, as well as the positions, receptions, transla-
tions, andfrustrations (if any), in the figure, as they shall occur, and
which have been already explained. By this means, not only the
true answer will be obtained, but every other remarkable event con-
tingent thereon cannot fail to be discovered.
Our limits will not permit us to dwell longer on this subject, which
would require a large volume of itself. But those who would become
proficients herein, are recommended to peruse the works of Lily,
the famous astrologer of Cromwell's time, who shone unrivalled in
this branch of astral science. There is also a great deal of informa-
tion on this subject to be derived from the perusal of Coley, Thrasher,
Ball, Middleton, and Wilson ; in the last author particularly. But,
above all, those who would wish to read "the language of the stars"
should apply to some professor of eminence and integrity; for, expe-
rience being the best master, the student would learn more under a
skilful artist in a few weeks than he would in as many months, or even
years, by his own application, if destitute of proper examples.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXXV.
*&f)t Patutarg SMgnttteg,
Much controversy has lately arisen upon this disputed point ; and
it is still a desideratum in astrology, to be actually convinced, whether
the planets are bond fide better or worse by being in their houses,
exaltations, or triplicities. Much on either side has been said, much
more may be said, and still will the truth remain obscured ; arising
2 a 2
356 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
from the difficulty of judging accurately, where so many complex ar-
guments are, pro and con, brought forward. But it is a singular fact
(which it will puzzle the enemies of essential dignities to account for,
and which they cannot contradict), namely, that, from the time of
the actual commencement of any event, the end thereof and its contin-
gencies may be predicted. From whence does this arise ? Not from
the sympathy of a question, for, if no question were asked for years,
still, at anyfuture period, indefinitely, if the figure of the heavens be
erected to the precise time when the commencement of any past event
occurred, and judged by the rules laid down for the essential dignities,
the events thereof will still be plainly denoted, whether past, present,
or future. Here, then, the effect cannot be sympathy, but must be
preordained and immutable. How, then, will the adversaries of the
old system get over this dilemma ? If they make an experiment of
the fact, they will be soon convinced thereof; and we would ask
them, if this be the case, why should not the face of the heavens
at birth carry the fate of the native with it, according to the symboli-
cal nature of the dignities, as well as it evidently does at the com-
mencement of any enterprise ? Suppose a question were asked at the
moment of time an infant was born, the cmta'-dignitarists would then
calculate the star bearing rule in the ascendant, &c. &c. and judge
therefrom. How they will make the distinction between one case
and the other we shall leave to time and experience to determine. In
our foregoing treatise we have given rules for judging a nativity,
without the ancient system of the dignities, and yet, after all, the
ancient astrologers seem to have far surpassed the moderns.
We will now give three examples of the axiom we laid down, " that
the end of every undertaking may be discovered by the face of the hea-
vens at the commencement thereof ;" and they are all three not only
well-known to hundreds of persons, but also of a recent date.
The first example is the
—
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 357
jFtgutx of tlje ffitabtn*
FOR THE TIME OF THE UNFORTUNATE HARRIS'S ASCENT
FROM THE EAGLE TAVERN, IN THE CITY ROAD,
Which terminated in the Loss of his Existence,
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXXV.
^ X
X<$
Vo
/ ^
Vl? ^x
s /
41 ^ /
/fee
<* ©
Uosmoit
OF THE
HEAVEN S,
May 25,
4 h. 9 m. P.M.
1824.
7
15
V,
5 31 \* /-f
> 4i r \y
Planets' Places at Mr. Harris's Birth, May 24, 5 A, Owz. A A/. 1792.
,& I <r I =^ I *R I S I
«in <s
#15 6| T? 27 10|^22 28RU20 0|$ 13 40| g 20 46R|©3 3b\ d 9 54
The time of the above unfortunate gentleman's ascent was noted
down by many persons, and is certainly the most striking; proof of
astrology, and of the arguments we have advanced, that could possibly
be brought forward. It was, however, not a horary question, but the
result of after-calculation. Yet, as calculations after the event could
not invalidate the testimony drawn from the actual tim« thereof
(which could not be altered), it is scarcely necessary to mention any-
thing further by way of preface.
fllenus rules the ascendant, which planet, with the moon, are the
significators of Harris ; and here we find the moon in Sriefl, on the
west angle, in opposition to the house of life, and recently separating
from the square of fytwtfytl, who is in opposition to Sfupiter, from the
358 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
third and ninth houses (houses of long and short journeys), which
clearly showed a dangerous voyage ; and next we find CUenus, lady
of the ascendant, the house of life, near the cusp of the eighth house,
or house of death ! QBercurg, lord of the house oi hopes, is also in
that fatal house ; and, lastly, Saturn,—the evil planet, Saturn,—at
all times a messenger of woe, is ruler of the fourth house, or the final
end of all things, and is within the very limits of the fatal boundary,
—the house of dissolution ! A stronger testimony of a calamitous
end could scarcely be evinced !
The next example is,
—
A FIGURE FOR
TSie fatal Ascent of Mr.Saddler, file Aeronaut,
at Bolton-le-Moor,
Which was noticed by an intelligent Correspondent.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXXVI.
In this instance, ^atutn, the author of misery, rules the house of
life, and is applying, by a retrograde motion, to the opposition of the
cruel and inveterate $Par0, who is posited in the hurtful sign
©acittatiU0, a sign preeminent for falls and hurts, and dangerous
casualties, when possessed by malevolent influence.
The moon, a co-signincator, is applying by rapid motion to tht
AKT OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 359
quartile of the 0tm, lord of the house of death, who disposes of Jupiter,
the only benevolent planet in the scheme, while tytxstt)Zl is also vitiat-
ing the ascendant : a singular combination of evil, rarely to be met
with, and never failing to cause death or imminent peril.
It is a very singular circumstance, that 3[upfter, in the seventh
house, shows good fortune to the wife, even by this calamitous event
;
which actually proved the case, a subscription being raised for her
benefit, by a number of gentlemen, &c.
The third example is a
—
Figure for the successful Ascent of Graham
the Aeronaut,
From Berwick Street, in company with the unfortunate Harris,
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXXVII.
** X
x*
/** *
\ Ol2
X > 22
X ^
X
SEPT. 5,
1823.
3 h. 45 m. P. M.
x£ /
This aerial ascent was the finest that had ever taken place in the
metropolis, and attracted the admiration of some thousands of per-
sons, the streets and houses near the scene being lined with specta-
tors. The astrological reason of which is plainly discovered from the
figure ; for (Henu0 rules the fourth house, and is placed in her own
dignities in the house of voyages and long journeys in an aerial sign
;
and the moon is in trine to the lord of the ascendant, who is in recep-
tion with ®enu0, and Sfupiter is angular in the seventh house. These
360 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURV.
positions denote the greatest success, which was the case, in every
respect, except in gain; the experiment being at the sole personal
cost of the aeronaut, and consequently no gain could accrue there-
from.
It was at this time that the unfortunate Harris first commenced his
aeronautical career by ascending with the subject of the present arti-
cle; and, although they were at this time excellent friends, yet soon
afterwards (partly through female intrigue), they became decidedly
hostile to each other. Now, when we consider the position of
$3£ercurg, who applies to the quartile of 3fupiter, the lords of the 1 lth
and 5th houses, and the square of $$ar0 and &enu0, we see that this
also, as well as every other circumstance, was plainly shown in the
position of the heavens at the time this aerial voyage commenced.
Raphael.
CIRCLE IV.—SECT. XXXVI.
THE ART OF CALCULATING ASTROLOGICAL PROBLEMS
BY TRIGONOMETRY.*
Problem 1st.-—The longitude of a star, without latitude, being
given to find its declination in the ecliptic.
Rule, Add the sine of 23° 28' to the sine of the star's distance
from the nearest equinoctial point ; the sum, less radius, will be the
sine of the star's declination.
Example: Suppose the © in 27° 36' of <y», what is his declina-
tion?
The first point of <y> is the nearest equinoctial point to where the
is : his distance from it is 27° 36', the logarithmic sine of which
will be found in the table (in the common angle of 27° and
36') to be 9.66585. Add to this the logarithm 9.60011, be-
longing to the tropical sine, 23° 28', less radius, and it will give the
* It is useless here to enter any farther into theprineiples of trigonometry than
is necessary to the subject we are upon, and it is therefore only requisite to ob-
serve, that the tables of logarithms, sines, tangents, and secants, as referred to
here, are those used with the nautical ephemeris, and may be had of almost any
bookseller.
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 361
logarithm 9.26596, which will be found to answer to the sine of 10°
38', which is the 0*s declination.
Problem 2d.—The longitude and latitude of a star given, to find
its declination.
Rule.—1st, Add the tangent of 23° 28' to the sine of the longitu-
dinal distance from the nearest equinoctial point ; the sum, less ra-
dius, will be the tangent of the 1st angle.
2d, If the latitude and longitude have the same denomination,
—namely, if the latitude be north and the star in a northern sign, or
south and the star in a southern sign,—the latitude must be subtracted
from 90°. But, if the latitude and longitude are of different denomi-
nations, the latitude must be added to 90°. Subtract the 1st angle
from the sum or remainder, and it will give the amount of the 2d
angle.
3d, As the cosine of the 1st angle is to the cosine of the 2d angle,
so is the cosine of 23° 28' to the sine of the required declination.
The declination will have the same denomination as the sign in
which the star is, north or south, provided it be greater than the
latitude. But if it be less than the latitude, and the latitude be of
an opposite denomination to the sign, the declination will have the
same denomination as the latitude.
Example : Suppose % to be in 3° 21' of yp, with 0° 24' north la-
titude, what will be his declination ?
The nearest equinoctial point is <y>, from which % is distant
86° 39'.
Sine of 86° 39', 9.99926
Add the tangent of 23° 28', 9.63761
It gives the tangent of the first angle, 9.63687, equal to 23°
26'. As the latitude and longitude are of opposite denominations, I add
the 24' to 90°, which gives 90° 24', from which I subtract the 1st angle,
23° 26', leaving a remainder of 66° 58', which is the second angle.
As the cosine of the 1st angle, 23° 26' (of which I take the arith.
comp. for the sake of addition) 0.03738
is to the cosine of the 2d angle, 66° 58', 9.59247
so is the cosine of 23° 28', 9.96251
to the sine of the required declination, 9.59236, which is
362 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
equal to 23° 2' of south declination, as % is in a southern sign. Had
this declination been less than the latitude, it would have been north,
because the latitude is north, and of a different denomination from
the longitude.
Problem 5th,—To find the ascensional difference from the decli-
nation.
Rule. Add the tangent of the latitude of the place to the tangent
of the star's declination ; the sum will be the sine of the ascensional
difference.
Example : What is the ascensional difference of TJ, in the latitude
51° 32' with 23° 2' declination.
Tangent of 5 1° 32', 10.09991
Tangent of 23° 2', 9.62855
Sine of ascensional difference required, 9.72846, or 32° 21'.
N. B. If the tangent of the declination be added to the tangent of
the pole of a star, it will give the ascensional difference of that star
under its pole.
Problem 3rd,—To find the right ascension of a star, not having
latitude.
Rule. Add the cosine of its longitudinal distance from the nearest
equinoctial point to the arithmetical complement of the cosine of its
declination ; the sum will be the cosine of its right ascension from
the equinoctial point, from which the longitudinal distance was
taken. The arc thus found will, if the star be in <y>> H> or n, be
the right ascension ; but, if it be in ©,&, or np., it must be sub-
tracted from 180° ; if in ^=, n|, or /, 180° must be added to it
;
and if in yf, ^, or X, the arc found must be subtracted from 360°.
Example : Suppose the © to be in 15° 6' of <y, with 5° 58' of
declination, I would know his right ascension ?
Arithmetical complement of the cosine of the declina-
tion, 5® 58', 0.00236
Cosine of its longitudinal distance from the first point
of T , 15° 6', 9.98474
Cosine of the 0un'0 right ascension, 9.98710
equal to 13° 53', which, as the sun is in <y>» is the true right ascen-
sion required.
ART OK FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 303
Problem 4th. —To find the right ascension of a star, having lati-
tude.
Rule. As the cosine of the star's declination is to the cosine of its
longitudinal distance from the nearest equinoctial point, so is the co-
sine of its latitude to the cosine of the right ascension required.
Example : Suppose % to be in 3°. 21' of yp , with 23° 2' of decli-
nation, and 0° 24' of latitude, what will be his right ascension ?
As the cosine of %'s declination (arith. comp«),
23° 2', 0.03608
is to the cosine of his longitudinal distance from the first
point of op, 86° 39', 8.76667
so is the cosine of his latitude, 0° 24', 9.99998
to the cosine of his right ascension from that point,
86° 21', 8.80273
Subtract the 86° 21' from 360°, % being in yp, it will leave a re-
mainder of 273° 39^ which is the true right ascension of %,
If, however, the star be in the beginning of y> with great north
latitude, or in the beginning of ^ with great south latitude, the
above method will not give the right ascension correctly, and there-
fore the proportion must be altered as follows :
—
As radius is to the sine of the star's longitudinal distance, so is the
cotangent of the latitude to the tangent of the first arc.
This first arc, when found, must be subtracted from the ecliptical
difference, 23° 28', and the remainder will be the second arc.
As the sine of the first arc is to the sine of the second arc, so is
the tangent of the longitudinal distance to the tangent of the right
ascension, from that point from whence it was taken, which, being
regulated as before directed, will give the true right ascension. But
the first rule will answer very well if the star be 2° distant from the
first point of op or £=
.
When the ascensional difference and right ascension are obtained,
the semiarcs and oblique ascension or descension will be found in
the usual way, as directed under the head of those articles ; the
oblique ascension, by subtracting the ascensional difference from the
right ascension, if the declination be north, or adding it if south ;
364 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
and the oblique descension, by adding the ascensional difference, if
the declination be north, or subtracting it if south ; if the star have
no declination, it has only right ascension.
The semidiurnal arc will be found by adding the ascensional dif-
ference to 90°, if the declination be north, or subtracting it if south ;
and the seminocturnal arc by subtracting the ascensional difference
from 90°, if the declination be north, or by adding it if south.
Problem bth. —To find the point of the ecliptic on the cusp of the
midheaven for any given time.
Rule. —1st, Add the time from the last noon to the 0un'0 right
ascension in time; the sum will be the right ascension of the mid-
heaven in time. This must be turned into degrees and minutes.
2d, Add the cotangent of the right ascension from the nearest equinox
to the cosine of 23° 28'; the sum will be the cotangent of the longi-
tude from the said nearest equinoctial point.
Example : Suppose the right ascension of the mid-heaven to be
72° 38' , what point of the ecliptic should culminate ?
Cotangent of 72° 38' (its distance in right ascension
from arte), 9.49519
Cosine of 23° 28', 9.96250
Cotangent of the longitude from y, 74° 0'
9.45769
Equal to 14° of n.
When the star is in <y>, & , or n, this gives the longitude from
<Y> ; if in ®, Q,, or tt£, subtract the arc so found from 90°,—it gives
the longitude from <© ; if in ^=, rt|, or £ , it gives the longitude
from rCh without subtraction; and if in yf, ~, or x> by subtracting
it from 90°, it gives the longitude from yp.
Problem 6th,—To find what point of the ecliptic occupies the
cusp of any house, except the 10th or 4th.
Rule. Add 30° to the right ascension of the mid-heaven for every
house, according to its distance from the mid-heaven eastward ; the
sum will be the oblique ascension of such house (namely, 30° for the
11th, 60° for the 12th, 90° for the horoscope, 120° for the 2d, and
150° for the 3d.) Thus, if the right ascension of the mid-heaven be
72° 38', the oblique ascension of the 11th will be 102° 38' : of the
ART OP FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 365
12tb, 132° 38'; of the horoscope, 162° 38' ; of the 2d, 192° 38';
and of the 3d, 222° 38').
2d, To the cosine of the oblique ascension of the house, taken
from the nearest equinoctial point, add the cotangent of the pole of
the house ; the sum will be the cotangent of the first arc.
3d, If the cusp of the house be nearest to arie0, add to the first
arc 23° 28'; but, if nearest to Hibra, subtract 23° 28' from it ; the sum
or remainder will be the second arc.
4th, As the cosine of the 2d arc is to the cosine of the 1st arc, so
is the tangent of the oblique ascension of the house to the tangent of
its longitude from 3ries or Hibra ; for, if the second angle be less
than 90°, the longitude must be reckoned from the same equinoctial
point the oblique ascension was taken from, but, if more than 90°, from
the other point.
Example : What point of the ecliptic should occupy the cusp of
the 11th house, the R. A. of the mid-heaven being 72° 38' ?
Cosine of the 0. A. of the 11th, 102° 38', or
77° 22', from ^, 9.33987
Cotangent of the pole of the 11th, 23° 27' 10.36274
Cotangent of the 1st arc, 63° 14', 9.70261
Being the nearest to ^ , subtract 23 28
Second arc, 39 46
As the cosine of the 2d arc, 39° 46' (arith. comp.) 0.11427
is to the cosine of the 1st arc, 63° 14', 9.65355
so is the tangent of the oblique ascension, 77° 22', 10.64949
to the tangent of its longitude, 69° 4', 10.41731
As the 2° arc is less than 90°, the longitude must be taken from 4±,
from whence the oblique ascension was taken ; it is therefore 69° 4'
distant from =o= , and, as it lies between that sign and the first point
of ob, it must be subtracted from 90°, and it will give 20° 56' of ©
for the cusp of the 11th house. The cusps of the other four houses,
viz. the 12th, 1st, 2d, and 3d, may be found the same way, by
means of therr respective poles, and adding 30° to each for its oblique
366 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
ascension. The cusps of the other six houses are of course in oppo-
site signs, degrees, and minutes.
Example : In the 12th house of the same figure, its oblique as-
cension will be nearer to ^ by 30°, so that its oblique ascension will
be distant from that point only 47o 22'.
Cosine of 47° 22', its distance from ^, 9.83078
The pole of the 12th is 40° 48', the co-
tangent of which is 10.06390
Cotangent of the 1st arc, 9.89468 51°
23
53'
28
1st
2d
arc
0.05576 28 25 arc
9.79047
10.03592
As cosine of 2d arc, 28° 25',
is to cosine of 1st arc, 51 53,
so is tangent of dist. 47 22,
to the tangent oflong. 37° 1 9', 9.88215
This is its distance from £± , which, subtracted from 90°, gives the
distance from ©, of 52° 41', or 22° 41' of Si, for the cusp of the
12th house.
The longitude of the horoscope may be had the same way, but, as
we have it correct to a minute in the table of houses, we shall pro-
ceed to the 2d house.
By taking 60° of oblique ascension away for the difference between
the oblique distance of the 12th and 2d houses we bring it 60° nearer
to Hibra, or, to speak more properly, we pass Hibra, for our dis-
tance of the 12th from Hlbra was but 47° 22' of oblique ascension,
which, subtracted from 60°, will make our distance from Hibra
12° 38', on the other side, the cosine of which is,
9.98935
Cotangent of the pole of the 2d
house, 40° 48', 10.06390
Cotangent of the 1st arc, 10.05325 41o30' 1st arc
23 28
18 2 2d arc
ART OF FOREKNOWING EVENTS. 367
As the A. C. of the cosine of the 2d arc, 18° 2', 0.02184
is to the cosine of the 1st arc, 41° 30', 9.87445
so is the tangent of this dist. 12 38, 9.35051
to the tangent of longitude, 10<> 1', 9.24680
which, without any alteration, is 10° 1' of libra.
For the 3d house we add 30° to the oblique distance, 1 2° 38' from
Hibra, and it gives 42° 38', the cosine of which is,
9.86670
The pole of the 3d house is 23° 27',
the cotangent of which is 10.36274
Cotangent of the 1st arc, 10.22944 1st arc, 30° 31'
23 28
As the cosine of the 2d arc, 7° 3' 0.00330 2d arc, 7 3
is to the cosine ofthe 1st arc, 30 31 9.93524
so is the tangent of the dist. 12 38 9.96408
to the tangent of longitude 38° 41' 9.90362, which is 38° 42' distant
from Hibra, or 8° 42' of t)\» The opposite houses have of course
the same degrees and minutes of the opposite signs.
Problem 7th,—To find the pole of a star, or house, in any figure.
Rule.—1st, As the semiarc of the star or point is to 90°, so is its
right distance from the 10th or 4th house (according as it may be si-
tuated) to the difference between its circle of position and that of
the meridian, which difference, subtracted from its right distance,
will give its ascensional difference under its own pole.
2d, To the sine of this ascensional difference add the cotangent
of its declination ; the sum will be the tangent of its pole.
Example : Suppose the seminocturnal arc of ^ to be 122° 26',
his right distance from the 4th, 21° 1', and his declination 23° 2',
what will be his polar elevation (commonly called his pole) ?
Here we may use the proportional logarithms, which are contained
in the same book as the logarithms of sines, tangents, and secants.
368 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
As the S. N. A. of it, 122° 26' (proportional logarithm), 1674
is to 90° (pro. log.) 3010
so is his right distance from the 4th, 21° 1' (pro. log.) 9327
1.2337
1674
to the distance between its circle of position from the 4th, )
which is equal to 15° 27' 3
Subtract this 15° 27' from the right distance, 21° 1', it will give
the ascensional difference of % under his pole, 5° 34'
To the sine of the ascensional difference of it, 5° 34', 8.98678
add the cotangent of It's declination, 23 2, 10.37145
the sum is the tangent of it's pole, 12 51, 9.35823
When the polar elevation of any house is wanted, its semiarc and
declination will be those of the 0, when he is posited in that point.
The arithmetical complement of these proportional logarithms
may be found by subtracting the logarithm from 10.000, which will
enable the operator to perform the whole by addition. At the tops
of the columns of these logarithms the value is placed in degrees
and minutes, leaving the left hand column for the seconds, but they
may be made to answer to any sexagenary proportion. For instance,
the logarithm of it's S. N. A., 122° 26', is the logarithm of 2° 2' 6",
but, by considering every minute as a degree, the operation will be
the same.
Those who can work by trigonometry,* according to the problems
here laid down, will find their operations more correct than they
possibly can be by referring to tables, provided they take their loga-
rithms right ; and, in finding the pole of a planet or house, or work-
ing with it when it is found, it is indispensably necessary, for by this
means the pole may be taken and used even to a minute. I would
therefore advise the student, if he be not already acquainted with tri-
gonometry and the use of logarithms, to become so as soon as possi-
ble, especially if he would calculate to any degree of exactness.
* Next to trigonometry, the planisphere is to be preferred.
369
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXXVII,
CIRCLE V.—SECT. I.
WONDERFUL PROPHECIES,
BY CELEBRATED ASTROLOGERS,
INCLUDING THOSE OF
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS OLIVE OF CUMBER-
LAND, THE RENOWNED NOSTRADAMUS, 4c.$c.Sfc.
A COMMENTARY ON THE CELEBRATED PROPHECY OF
NOSTRADAMUS,
Relative to the Destruction of London by Fire, in 1 666.
ORIGINAL PROPHECY.
Le sang- du juste a Londres fera faute
Bruslez par feu, de vingt et trois, les six,
La dame antique cherra de place haute,
De mesme secte plusieurs seront oceis,
2B
370 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
TRANSLATION.
The blood o' th' just requires,
Which out of London reek?.
That it be raz'd with fires,
In year threescore and six ;
The ancient dame shall fall
Down from her place on high,
And of the same sect shall
Many another die.
The versions of Nostradamus that have been attempted in our own
language have been such uncouth productions, that they certainly
could not be expected to please; and many reasons may be given for
the diction in which they have appeared. I hope, therefore, without
the imputation of vanity, that I shall be able to afford my readers an
opportunity of more fairly appreciating Nostradamus than any pre-
ceding commentator has yet given them, by inserting a few of his
most striking predictions, and accompanying each with a translation
in plain literal English.
THE VIOLENT MARY.
The first thing we have to notice is the date at which this very sur-
prisingly accurate prediction was made and written, which was about,
the year 1558, while our kingdom was under the dominion and perse-
cution of that fiend-like woman, the Violent Mary. Having observed
the date, let us attend to the first words of the oracle, " The blood of
the just requires ," from which it is to be inferred that, according to our
prophet, the judgment he foresaw was to fall in expiation of the vio-
lent persecution and massacre of the just that was carrying on in his
time. And it is worthy of being recollected, that Archbishop Cran-
mer, Bishops Hooper, Farrar, Ridley, and Latimer, who each were
steadfast to the Protestant cause, were severally burnt alive ; and that
neither age, sex, learning, nor virtue, could save the victims of that
terrible female hyena from destruction. Numbers suffered for no
other crime whatever than reading the Lord's Prayer in English : and,
had not Providence mercifully ended it by her death, there is no
knowing to what length her vengeance might have been extended.
In the preliminary epistle to his son, Csesar, prefixed to the seven
.WONDERFUL PROPHECIES. 371
first centuries of his stanzas, he expressly says, that it is by " astro-
nomical affections" that he has been enabled, " through the divine
poiver of God" to foretell that which should afterward come to pass :
and we are witnesses, that, more than a hundred years previous to the
event, he points out the very year in which retribution should fall
upon the city wherein we live, for the "just blood" which it had
passively permitted to be shed in a former age.
RELIGIOUS TENETS OF THE ANCIENT BRITONS.
Before the introduction of Christianity into England, a pagan tem-
ple stood where St. Paul's now stands. The British islanders, like all
other ancient people of the earth, were Sabaists, or worshippers of the
heavenly bodies, directly or indirectly, as explained in another part of
this volume : and the temple alluded to was dedicated to the moan,
under her pagan title of Diana. Hence we perceive the application
of that mysterious expression of the prophet, '* the ancient dame shall
fall" &c. meaning evidently the destruction of the grand national
cathedral ; and its eminent rank among the ecclesiastical structures
of the world is forcibly signified by its being said that her fall is from
" a high place." This point being solved, it is easy to come at the
sense of the remainder, namely, " many of the like sect," or character,
" shallfall" —which doubtlessly means, like places of worship ; and,
with the historical fact before us, we are able to show how awfully
the prediction was verified; for, from the 2d of September, in the
precise year that had been specified, when the fire broke out, in the
space of three days, eighty-nine parish churches and 13,200 dwelling-
houses were reduced to ashes. The numerous monuments of this
catastrophe which daily meet our eye are ample vouchers for the
wonderful fidelity and capacity of the prophet, and for the perfection
to which the science may be carried by men of sound mind and per-
severing talents.
2 b 2
372
ILLUSTRATION, No. XXXIX.
CIRCLE V.—SECT. II.
SI SHontarful i^opfiecg fey liogtrattamug,
CONCERNING
A GREAT FLOOD IN ENGLAND.
Le Grand Bretagne comprise d'Angleterre,
Viendra par eaux si haut a inondre.
TRANSLATION.
Great Britain, by which England
' Is to be understood,
By waters coming o'er her strand,
Must suffer a huge flood.
This prophecy, as I judge from the date of the preliminary epistle,
was written in 1555, or immediately afterward. It is contained in
Stanza LXX. Century III. of Nostradamus : and in a book entitled
Rerum inGallid, Belgid, Hispanid, Anglid, Sfc. gestarum Anno 1607,
tomi septimi, liber secundus, conscriptus a Nichaolao Gotardo, Artus
Dantiscano, the following account is recorded ; and which, indepen-
WONDERFUL PROPHECIES. 373
dent of its proving so perfect a fulfilment of the prediction, tells of
an event which ought never to be forgotten ; and we expect, by this
our republication of the record, to afford an interesting story to all our
readers.
"About the end of January, 1607," says the author, "the sea
broke out so violently in England, that, after the breaking of fences
and dikes, it caused very great damage to the inhabitants. The
greatest mischief was done in Somersetshire, where the water did
overflow ten leagues in length and two in breadth, twelve foot high in
the most eminent places. This sudden inundation brought a fearful
alarm to the country people. Some of them, going to their plough,
were fain to run back to their houses, where they found their enemies
at their doors, viz. death and water, which, without distinction, swept
them away. In a little time, the towns appeared like islands, and
presently after were swallowed up, so that the tops of the trees were
scarcely seen. This new flood covered so the towns of Hansfield, in
the same county ; and those of Grantham, Kenbus, Kingston, and
Birandon, with several farms built in the champaign country, that
none of the buildings could be seen. If you add to this the devasta-
tion of the places, the quantity of corn, fruit, and grass, that was lost,
the misery shall be so great as not to be expressed.
"
DREADFUL ACCOUNT OF THE VAST NUMBERS OF PEOPLE
AND CATTLE THAT PERISHED IN THE WATERS.
" During this frightful contest between the water and the land, an
exceeding great number of people died, of all ages and sexes. It
would avail them nothing to get up into the upper stories, and on the
roofs of their houses, nor upon the highest trees; for the imperious
waters did so swell and rage, that the foundations of the houses and
roots of the trees were loosened, and both fell to the ground. The
people, seeing no way to escape, had no alternative but to die patiently.
Nobody could, without great grief, see the oxen and sheep drowning;
for there were such numbers of them, that, afar off, one would have
thought them to be rocks in the sea : but, seeing them swimming, and
371 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
hearing them bleating and bellowing, one would have thought them
to be a storm and hissing winds.
"A rich farmer, and father of seven children, being involved in the
flood, and thinking the danger less than it was, went about to save
some of his best goods, but, seeing the waters to increase, he forsook
all, and went to save one of his children, whom he loved best ; but
the waters followed him so close, that all he could do was to get upon
the roof of his house. Among the children was a little one sleeping
in a cradle, which, being made of close boards, did swim upon the
waters about three miles, and the child was taken up alive and sound.
The hay and corn-stacks swam like ships upon the waves, and pigeons
were seen upon the stacks which the waters carried away. The
conies being driven out of their holes, had got upon the backs of
swimming sheep. A shepherd, about to gather his sheep into the
fold, being followed by the flood, ran for his life, and climbed a high
tree, where seeing his sheep bleating in the water, he tore his hair,
smote his breast, and lifted his hands and eyes to Heaven, and prayed
for mercy: and, after all his sheep had perished, and himself nearly,
with extreme cold and hunger, he was at last taken up in a boat sent
to relieve the distressed."
DEVASTATIONS OF THE WATERS IN THE NEIGHBOUR-
HOOD OF BRISTOL AND THE WEST OF ENGLAND.
«« But here we must speak of Bristol, one of the chiefest cities of
England. The same day of that inundation, the sea, breaking into
a great channel, did presently overflow the country with such quick-
ness and violence, that it covered the valleys and smaller hills, so
that nothing but utter ruin was expected. Many entire houses were
turned upside down, and carried away by the flood. The barns, full
of corn, hay, &c. were overthrown, and abundance of people of all
sorts, and cattle, were carried away with the flood. The merchants
of London, Bristol, &c. suffered an incalculable loss in commodities
provided for the fair, then near at hand ; the most part of them being
carried away by the flood, and the rest were so spoiled that the owners
could not tell what to do with them.
WONDERFUL PROPHECIES. 375
" A gentleman dwelling between Barnstaple and Bristol, and about
two leagues from the sea, on going in the morning to oversee his
grounds, saw the peril that threatened, and ran back to his house to
convey the sad news to his wife and servants. While they were en-
deavouring to pack up the most valuable of their goods, the water
came about the house so fast, that they only thought of saving their
lives ; and the gentleman, with his wife and children, went upon the
roof of the house. Although nothing appeared to them but inevitable
death, the gentleman came down to endeavour to secure a small trunk,
in which were papers of much value; and, while he was busied fas-
tening the trunk to a manger, the waves beat so against the house,
that it fell to the ground ; and wife, children, and servants, were
swallowed in the ruin. The gentleman caught hold of a piece of
timber, and was carried away about half a league, where he reached
a mountain, and once more found himself on dry ground. Half dead
with grief and fear, he sat bewailing the fate of his family, when the
little trunk, with the manger to which it was tied, came floating near
the spot, and, having drawn this to land, it was all he saved of his
property."
THE EFFECTS OF THE INUNDATION IN NOKFOLK AND
THE EASTERN COUNTIES.
" It happened at the same time, near Markland in the county of
Norfolk, that two thieves, who had stolen some cattle, perceiving that
the water had overtopped the dikes, were compelled to save them-
selves by speed. Thus, out of their wickedness, arose a great good :
for they hurried to the next town, and caused the sexton to ring the
bell, and the cry of " Water! water!" to be made in the streets.
The inhabitants being, for the most part, asleep, were much terrified,
on waking, to hear the alarm. Some climbed the tower of the church
—others went about to defend and fence their houses—others, hear-
ing it to be a flood only, laughed, and said those who caused the
alarm deserved to be punished. But they presently altered their
language. Their laughing was turned to mourning. Every one was
using all means to save himself, his wife, his children, and most
precious property. Seeing that there was no possibility of diverting
<i/0 TUB ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
the current, they retired to the tops of their houses in a lamentable
fright ; and others ran to a hill near the town ; while numbers were
left to drown.
" The following day the houses were seen half under water; the
people from the upper windows, from the roofs and steeple, crying
for help; while others were endeavouring to save themselves on
floating rafters. Horses tied to their mangers were all suffocated.
Cattle, as many as could be, were driven to Trewhill, which was,
at length, so encompassed with water, that without boats there was
no access to it. Thus, men and beasts, which had taken refuge on
this hill, were about to perish, had not some shepherds brought boats
from a distance laden with provisions, and thus supplied them until
the waters retired again, and the dikes were made good."
THE ASTROLOGICAL INFLUENCE BY WHICH THIS
AWFUL FLOOD WAS ACCOMPANIED.
Astrologers will be very solicitous to learn by what signal influence
such a terrible catastrophe was attended ; and I trust that I shall be
able to fully satisfy them upon this point. Certain it is, that the ordi-
nary aspects of the planets would, in no respect, be sufficient to ac-
count for it : we must, therefore, have recourse to those of the extraor-
dinary kind ; and of these the appearance of comets is that which first
claims attention. Upon consulting my astronomical records relative
to the fatal period which has been described, I find that one of the
most powerful of those numerous comets which belong do the solar
system appeared at the latter end of the year 1606. It was then
approaching towards its perihelion, which it passed on the 26th of
October, 1607. Its descending node, the transit of which was made
on the 10th or 11th of December, is in the 21st degree of Scorpio :
and thus, a little more than a month previous to the inundation of
England, the comet was in the watery triplicity. The motion of this
comet is retrograde ; and its period is nearly seventy-six years. Ten
years* hence it will again return to its perihelion : and, whoever may
live to sec its effects, they will certainly be serious, and very awful,
* The spring of 1S34
WONDERFUL PROPHECIES. 377
if it should happen to pass its descending node in April or May, or
its ascending node in October or November.
As Nostradamus does not point out the astrological signs from
which his prediction was made, we are unable to come to an opinion
upon what his foresight was grounded. It is certain that the comet
which appeared at the time of the flood had been seen in the
year 1531, and previously in the year 1456 ; and that, in the former
instance, the eastern parts of the German territories on the Danube,
and, in the latter, most parts of Holland, were dreadfully inundated.
Whether, therefore, the prophet foresaw that similar consequences
would be experienced in England, at its next return, we can only
conjecture : but certain it is that the prophecy was awfully verified.
Raphael.
RAPHAEL.
Raphael de Urbino, who, by the consent of mankind, is acknow-
ledged to be the prince of modern painters, and often styled the " di-
vine Raphael," as well for the grandeur of his conception as the ini-
mitable graces of his pencil, was born on Good Friday, anno 1483.
As a reward for his consummate merit, he had hopes of receiving a
cardinal's cap, but, falling ill of a fever, death deprived him of the
expected honour, on Good Friday, 1520.
OLIVER CROMWELL.
The 3d of September was a remarkable day in the history of
Oliver Cromwell. On that day, 1650, he gave the Scots, whom he
hated and despised, a total overthrow at the battle of Dunbar. On
that day twelvemonth, he defeated Charles the Second at Worcester ;
and on that day, in the year 1658, he gave up the ghost, in the midst
of one of the greatest storms that was ever known in England.
378
ILLUSTRATION, No. XL.
CIRCLE V.—SECT. III.
gtetrologfrai ^Fragments,
BY HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS OLIVE OF
CUMBERLAND.
Fragment the First.
Some of the most celebrated philosophers of old were united in
>pinion, that ihe hosts of the firmament were the harbingers of good
WONDERFUL PROPHECIES. '37 ( >
and evil below. Seth, the father of astrology, left several mementos
of his scientific researches, which were engraven on stone, and which
laid the foundation of this part of occult science. Thus, from an era
nearly coeval with the origin of the world, we have evidence that the
patriarchal sages esteemed this knowledge an attainment of the most
desirable and magnificent kind. There can be very little ground for
doubting but that Joseph, in Egypt, then the chief seat of learning,
was enabled, by his skill in astrology, to acquire the favour ofPAa-
raoh by providing for the emergencies of the Egyptian state, in
the manner recorded in Holy Writ. The insight into the future
destiny of his sons, whom he judged of, and blessed, previously to his
death, was also, as we may very well believe, drawn by his father
Jacob from the configurations of the heavenly bodies at the times of
their several nativities.
States and empires, at their ungenial influence, are crumbled into
dust ; and by their smile the most humble are raised to the loftiest
summit of earthly glory ! Thus, continually on their course, they
perform the great and extraordinary offices allotted to them severally
by the Supreme, with a diligence, obedience, and promptitude,
beyond the finite comprehension of mortal man. How ignorant and
prejudiced, then, must that man be, and how crude that understand-
ing, which condemns a science in which the wisest and greatest king
of the earth, even Solomon, delighted ! Of all studies, occult philo-
sophy requires the most temperate and industrious habits of life ; for
not an hour passes that does not produce some interesting variation
in the heavens, and some consequent changes on the earth. But, to
pursue the motions of the planets with effect, a philosopher must let
no opportunity escape him of observation and improvement.
Comets, too, have been seen to be the forerunners sometimes of
especial good ; but more frequently of excessive evil. Thus, a comet
or blazing star may be presumed to have guided the magi, or wise men
of the east, to Bethlehem, as recorded with solemnity in the New Tes-
tament. The downfall of many states has been foreshown by prodi-
gious sights seen in the air. Jerusalem, Egypt, Rome, and many
other regions, declare as much; and, indeed, all strange and unusual
apparitions of this nature are generally followed bv direful effects.
380 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
such as convulsions of the earth, insurrections, wars, and change of
dynasties ! A comet appeared just at the time that our unfortunate
Charlesof England was defeated by Cromwell; and, in 1819, a comet
appeared in the summer previous to the death of the excellent Duke
of Kent, and of His Majesty George the Third.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XLI.
Fragment the Second.
In astrological studies, the situation, motion, and aspect of the moon
should be minutely observed, as her approach to the other planets has
great effect on mundane affairs. It is also known, that the power of
the angles is varied by the situation of the lunar orb : and, as these
are the places which are referred to concerning the fortunate and
unfortunate periods of a person's life, when rays of a beneficent ten-
dency are diffused from them, and the significator at a birth is pro-
pitious, and well dignified, much good may be augured.
The ascendant, in a nativity, is a very important quarter of the
heavens, as it signifies the state of health and disposition of the indi-
vidual. The seventh and tenth houses are also extremely powerful,
with good planets seated in them ; but, occupied by evil planets,
WONDERFUL PEOPHECIES. 381
every calamity is threatened. If the fortunes, in a nativity, fall in
the tenth house, and the moon has good latitude, and is free from
affliction, the native will become eminently great. Several planets
being in sympathy, and terms of amity, it declares that success will
distinguish a person whose nativity is so marked. The moon, in the
second house, has been deemed a token of mutable fortune ; but I am
of opinion, if she be in sextile or trine with 3lupitet or ©emi0, the
person will enjoy great wealth in the decline of life.
The moon is considered to be the significator of the people in every
kingdom or state, and the gun is that of the head, or ruler, of such
state. Thus, when the 01m or moon is eclipsed in houses which are
occupied by the ascendants of any kingdom, and are in square at the
same time to Saturn or $9ar£, much dissatisfaction may be expected
to prevail in the state signified by the constellation ; and more so, if
$®slx0 and Saturn be in conjunction or opposition.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XLII.
Fragment the Third.
Men of rare and excellent endowments have frequently declared
that the progress and signification of the planetary world were the
most useful studies of mankind ; as, by reasonably comprehending the
38'2 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
inteRtions of the Great Supreme, a religious adoration animates the
mind of the astrologer, which becomes.convinced of the omnipotence
of God by the miracles that have proceeded from the Almighty hand,
causing him to exclaim, How infinite are thy bounteous blessings upon
earth !—How truly wonderful is the motion and influence of the pla-
nets, whose operations regulate the destiny of empires, and produce
the happiness or misery of mortals !
In all ages occult philosophy has had its champions as well as anta-
gonists ; and this will be the case in every age of the world, as the
studies and inclinations of men vary : and most are aware, that there
is no such thing as human perfection upon earth. The greatest of
philosophers, and the best of men, have been often subject to errors.
Nor is a liability to mistakes confined to mere philosophers ; but me-
dical characters and the most learned in the law are not free from
human misconception, or able to relieve themselves from absurdities
which have been frequently attached to their professional conduct.
That the fate of nations may be more accurately understood than
the fate of individuals, I am persuaded, as the planets, in their pro-
gress, not only operate on the seasons, but upon the kingdoms and
people under their sympathy or antipathy, never was a kingdom,
state, or great religious sect founded, but some extraordinary assem-
blage or configuration of the planetary bodies has signified the event.
The greatest mutations that have ever happened in any portion of the
globe have always been evinced within a short time after the planets
have changed their triplicities. To confirm this, I will observe that,
under the fiery trigon, the Roman empire was beheld in its proudest
glory : and, as soon as the earthly trigon commenced, that celebrated
empire began to decline ; and her ruin was effected by Saturnine
people, who made dreadful inroads upon her territories and rights*
But, when the watery trigon prevailed under Scorpio, then the
empire of Rome was disabled from effecting its own liberty and inde-
pendence. About the second time of the congress of these planets,
Mahomet commenced his fatal career, which leads me to consider,
that the conjunction of £jatum and Jupiter, in December, 1821, in
the fiery triplicity, will occasion great wars in the eastern hemisphere,
and extraordinary changes of dynasties in several countries under
their influence.
WOXDERKUf. PROPIIKCIF.S. 383
ILLUSTRATION, No. XLIII.
Fragment the Fourth,
So great are the power and extent of the planets considered by
ancient and wise philosophers, that they declared celestial bodies
have the most prevailing efficacy, St. Thomas Aquinas confirms
this in his book De Fato, assuring us that everything upon earth
receives a certain qualification from the planets, as the beams of the
celestial bodies, being animated, bestow admirable gifts and bless-
ings upon mankind, impressing upon the human mind the most
astonishing genius ; and to this heavenly influence is to be reasonably
attributed the surprising inventions of men from one generation to
another
!
In one part of his writings, Nostradamus declares that Antichrist
shall arise in the north, of amazing craft and contention, about the eve
of the millenium: and he further declares, that the kings of the earth
will be in alliance to war against the liberty of mankind ; but that the
power of the Supreme shall be a rushing and impetuous torrent, and
wash from the surface of the earth the ambitious and sanguinary
384 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
injustice of the guilty ! It may be inferred, that the sixth trumpet,
named in the Revelations, has sounded ; and, by a serious computation,
that the fifth vial of wrath has been poured upon the earth!
If the secret prophecies of the Hebrews upon the Revelations are
properly understood, the children of Israel will assemble about the
year 1849, and rebuild Jerusalem. ; and a golden era will commence
at the close of this century, the promised millenium. But, ere the
commencement of this peaceful season, there will be manifested upon
earth wars, oppression, revolutions, earthquakes, and famine, and
every earthly distress, which will destroy one»third of the living upon
the earth.* The great assemblage of the planets in the eastern fini-
ture of the heavens in 1821, 1 consider, were the celestial messengers
of the century having commenced, which will usher in the world's
great sabbath ; which will be seen a rule of theocracy, that will ren-
der all the princes of the earth, after a certain season, the parents of
their joyful people, by their becoming the chosen servants of their
God. Olive, Princess of Cumberland.
A SINGULAR PREDICTION OF AN ASTROLOGER.
Johannes Martinias, born in Belgia, was a skilful painter;
and being in Italy, he was told by an astrologer, that " when he came
to Geneva, he should then die." He gave not much credit to this pre-
diction ; but it so fell out, that he was sent for to Bern, by Thomas
Schopsius, a physician, on purpose to illustrate the jurisdiction of
Bern by chorographical tables.
He had now almost finished the designed tables, and was entered
upon that which contains Geneva ; when, while he was laying down
the situation, and writing the name of that city, he was suddenly
seized upon with the plague, which, at that time, furiously raged
thereabouts, and died anno 1577, in the month of August.
* Rev. ix. 18.
385
ILLUSTRATION, No. XLIV.
CIRCLE V.—SECT. IV.
BY THE ROYAL MERLIN.
According to their manifold and diversified virtues and influences
upon sublunary things, are the celestial orbs distinguished.
Mars war provokes, and vengeance dire,
Darting towards Sol his furious ire ;
Jove, with benignance, justice gives
;
Venus with love and beauty lives ;
Saturn, superior, wields his powers,
And fortune's joys or miseries showers ;
The changing moon, inconstant e'er,
Doth ofttimes female greatness bear j
2c
386 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
And Mercury, a subtle god,
With good and evil blends his rod,
—
A wary messenger of state,
To happiness or woe create.
Lo ! ere gaturn has reached ten degrees in Gemini, the commerce
of London will be perplexed by the faithless policy of the northern
stales ! Russia, also, seen to be extending north and south its eagle
wings, will have much to do. " A multitude of business,*' it is said
in the scriptures, " produces a dream." * England will act prudently
to keep a navy riding upon the British ocean. France has a traitorous
measure in agitation, to countervail the designs of which will require
the greatest foresight and energy in the southern hemisphere. The
significations of the heavenly bodies threaten Egypt with insurrection,
and a like effect may be expected in our West India plantations.
The Pope will soon be upon the theatre of Jesuitical duplicity ; and
Italy will, in all probability, be a scene of confusion. Saturn^ pro-
gress through (Semini will affect not only the courts of law at home,
but, in the northern cabinets, much disquietude will be occasioned,
and deep debates in the political departments of England will most
likely ensue ! A chasm in a certain administration, where it is least
expected, will be heard of. The laurels of a celebrated hero will ere
long begin to droop, and the cypress wave over his tomb:
—
Ah ! what avails the tinselled show
That decorates the house of woe ?
Since fleeting greatness dies away,
And death his triumph does display
!
Another, also, who will be lamented by but few, will, it is appre-
hended, soon submit to the mandates of fate ! A period approaches
that will humiliate one of sage appearance, and exceedingly great
renown ! In vain will be each secret consultation : for certain cha-
racters will be released from enthraldom, and the secrets of past
times will check the progress of oppression in a quarter where only
the semblance of virtue is discoverable !
Wonder shall soon on wonder rise, •
And royal deeds mankind surprise!
The oak, expanding from a rock,
Undaunted meets the tempest's shock:
And Neptune wields his trident high,
"While Venus does his car supply
* Eccles. v. 3.
387
ILLUSTRATION, No. XLV,
CIRCLE V.—SECT. V.
BY THE ROYAL MERLIN.
A shock from heaven will descend,
And the spreading branches rend
Of a high tree—the root is taken,
And the locusts part have eaten !
A serpent crawling up the steep
Will undermine, and basely leap,
But fails still lower—down he goes,
And around him terror throws :
Whilst a lion just shall pause,
And uphold the ancient laws :
And if sueh lion e'er should see
Each evil act of treachery,
And provide a blessed solace,
In every heart he'd find a place.
ADDRESS TO THE FAIR SEX.
Ye fair, attend ! the field again is your own ; for love will now
prove triumphant ! 2Tauru0, the house of ®emi0, is relieved from the
2 c 2
388 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
chilling influence of & atum, who proceeds to the throne of law, and
will there soon manifest his iron rule. Cupid is inviting to hymeneal
joys. The fair of Britain once more repoint his fatal arrows. De-
lighted with the season, the rosy boy seeks the ldalian groves, as
2Jentl0, from her roseate bowers, welcomes his return, declaring that
the rose and violet are once more entwined to decorate the shrine of
love and beauty.
See upon the crystal tide,
The birds of Venus sportive glide
!
Maids, your temples bind with care,
And of fatal love beware :
As all around is bright and gay,
Now plodding Saturn is away.
From the configurations, there is reason to expect, that there will
be extraordinary perplexity in one or two states. Russia is plotting,
and will soon spread forth her eagle wing ! Her navy is preparing,
and important political events may be expected to claim the attention
of all Europe :
—
Time rolls on, and dire oppression
Shall receive a serious lesson !
The mighty lever takes a turn
—
Again the flames will fiercely burn
Upon the borders of the north
;
From thence, proceeding to the south :
And eastern news of direful kind
Shall cause amazement
—
more behind !
Yet accusations shall enforce,
And reveal a venal source
Of dire ambition—on a rock
Shall be felt the eastern shock
!
Amid the ocean one will go,
And like Napoleon sink with woe
;
Less deserving—his condition
Was for fleeting joys—ambition
!
The dice will rattle, and the loss
"Will one on shores of quicksand toss;
A venal hero seals his fate
—
A blot to honour and estate.
Thus speak the harbingers on high ! Time, on its rapid motion,
will, I fear, fatally illustrate the rest.
The Royal Merlin.
389
ILLUSTRATION, No. XLVI.
CIRCLE V.—SECT. VI.
©fignbattong anti ^rrtrationg,
BY THE ROYAL MERLIN.
It will soon be an important period for Great Britain ; but she
must not be too subservient to the eagle of the north ! Be prepared
for political changes in America about this period, as a secret plan is
agitating in that rising country ! Perhaps the eagle of A a may-
be concerned in the operations of the American republic ! Its poli-
cies are subtle and not very advantageous to England :-—
The midnight cabinet is held,
Where great Napoleon once dwell'd
:
His shade, as Denmark's, may arise,
And great events mankind surprise
!
A comet bright will soon appear
—
Then mark the end of this strange year
The Turk pursues his sanguine way
Where Mars terrific shall display
A direful scene ! Poor Greeks, you fly
Till heaven assistance does supply
From Mercy's court
!
Egypt will know trouble, and some sudden convulsions of the
southern world will soon be manifested. The Royal Merlin.
390
ILLUSTRATION, No. XLVII.
CIRCLE V.—SECT. VII,
^rop&ettc Recollections
BY THE
ROYAL MERLIN.
The book of past times will be unsealed ! —A phoenix rises out of
her own ashes !
—England is amazed, and Europe lost in exceeding
conjecture
!
A statesman, from motives of constitutional integrity, resigns his
place ; and ^@ctcurg elevates a gownsman to fleeting greatness.
As things are situated in the starry heaven above, it is to be
hoped, that most princes of Europe will remain stationary in their
own dominions, and keep a vigilant look out as to their own settle-
ments and colonies abroad ; for it is apprehended, that the overbear-
ing policy of some states will induce them, as Jacob did of old, to
steal another's dominion in the western world. The heavenly aspects
signify this, and more than it is wise and prudent to name. Time is
rolling rapidly away, and wields his iron sceptre over all
!
WONDERFUL PROPHECIES. 391
Time proceeds with rapid strides,
And o'er fallen empires glides
!
While infant liberty appears,
And, by its smile auspicious, cheers.
Oh, Austria! in vain thy care,
Of fallen liberty beware !
Short is seen despotic sway j
And mark the horrors of its day
—
Civil discord ! Oh, England ! soon
Will be evinced a tyrant's doom
On foreign plains !
And thou wilt mourn with sympathy,
And check in time thy selfish course.
Necessity shall this enforce
—
Two eagles seldom do agree
About one nest and sovereignty,
—
Each covets most the sun's bright ray :
Thus, two eagles, in their day,
Shall peck and fight, till, overcome,
One his earthly sands has run
!
The Royal Merlin.
SINGULAR PREDICTION OF THE ASTROLOGER
" RAPHAEL."
In the month of August, 1822, a lady was introduced to this gen-
tleman, by means of a friend, and requested to know the events
which were pending at that period. The artist drew forth the ho-
roscope, and informed her that, from the position of the heavenly
bodies at that instant, he foresaw she would be in danger of M taking
poison," through the carelessness of a servant, and therefore warned
her to be very careful what medicine she took for the next six months.
The prediction was thought but little of at the time, but within six
months from that period, the astrologer received a letter in the
lady's own handwriting, stating " that the cup was actually raised to
her lips, when recollecting the injunction, she was induced to examine
it, and discovered it to be poison, delivered by the servant in mistake,"
as was foretold. A striking proof of the science.*
* Vide—Urania, or the Astrol. Chronicle. Page 44.
392
ILLUSTRATION, No. XLVIIL
CIRCLE V.—SECT. VIII.
St ^rop&ecg of a bevg serious import,
WRITTEN BY
THE CELEBRATED NOSTRADAMUS.
Mars nous menace par la force bellique,
Septante fois fera la sang respandre,
Auge et mine de l'ecclesiastique
Et par ceux qui d'eux rien ne voudront entendre.
TRANSLATION.
Mars threatens us from heaven,
That armies will o'erspread
—
That in wars ten-times-seven,
Blood will be freely shed
—
In which the rise and fall
Of priestdom will appear,
Wrought by those who the call
Of priests disdain to hear.
"Although 1 have often foretold long before," says Nostradamus
in his preliminary epistle to his son, "what hath afterward come to
pass, and in particular regions, acknowledging all to have been done
WONDERFUL PROPHECIES. 393
by divine virtue and inspiration, being willing to hold my peace by
reason of the injury not only to the present time, but also of the
future, I put them in writing, because the kingdoms, sects, and
regions, shall be so diametrically opposed, that, if I should relate what
shall happen hereafter, those of the present reigns, sects, religions,
and faith, would find it so disagreeing with their fancies, that they
would condemn that which future ages shall find and knowto be true."
Concerning the use he makes of the planet $$&xg in the prediction
we are coming to examine, it will be previously requisite to observe
what he says in the prefatory epistle as to the said planet.
"Although the planet fl$ar0," says he, "makes an end of his
course, and is come to the end of his last period, neverthe-
less, he shall begin again ; and some shall be gathered in 8quariu0
for many years, others in Cancer also, for many years; and
now we are governed by the moon, and to which, before she hath
finished her circuit, shall come the 01m, and then j^aturn: for,
according to the celestial signs, the reign of jaatum shall come
again; so that all being calculated, the world draws near to an ana*
regonic revolution."
OBSERVATIONS OF THE SPECIAL PROPHECY OF NOS-
TRADAMUS, AS TO THE RUIN OF ECCLESIASTICAL
DESPOTISM.
By the foregoing extracts from the preliminary epistle of our pro-
phet, addressed to his son, my wish is to show, first, the solemn
nature, or spiritual impression under which these astrological predic-
tions were made ; and the serious attention to which they are conse-
quently entitled. Secondly, I would have it noticed how forcibly he
alludes to the great periodical revolutions of ^ar0 and ^atum, in the
said epistle, which, he signifies, are bringing about an anaregonic
revolution, or finishing catastrophe.
Having learned, from a spiritual insight during his solitary retire-
ment, the prosperities to which the clergy would be raised, he per-
ceived the agreement between his intuitive knowledge and the lan-
guage of the stars. He found the danger to the ecclesiastical institu-
394 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
tions of this part of the world, that, in the end, were to arise, as
foreshown by some particularly malign aspect in the greater revolu-
tions of $@ar0 ; but does not point out the special position on which
his judgment is founded, and consequently, not the express era to
which his prophecy alludes.
His first :emark is, that a threat of great armies, by which many
battles will be fought, and very much blood shed, is denoted by a
revolution or station of 0£ar0 at some future period : for we are to
understand the term seventy wars or battles, a great number, or long
continued succession, and not any precise number : as, when it is said
in scripture, we are to forgive our enemies, not only seven times, but
seventy times seven ; that is, an infinite number of times.
In the concluding part of the prophecy, we are taught that, during
this succession of wars, the rise and fall of priestdom will be accom-
plished ; and this, consequently, implies, that a very long period is
comprehended in the prediction. Nor can it be one aspect of the
planet that is here taken to indicate so extensive and momentous a dis-
solution as is portended ; for two contrary and successive effects are
presaged : namely, the auge, or augmenting and increasing power of
the clergy : and the other, their ruin.
Now it is certain, from the latter clauses of the prophecy, that the
wars and times alluded to have not yet been witnessed; for the
writer says that the ruin of ecclesiastical predominance shall be
wrought by those who will not hear anything that the clergy preach ;
and this is the strong feature of the prediction, as it regards the pre-
sent sie;ns of the times.
Every reader will be aware of the daily augmentation which the
army of infidelity is acquiring, and of the disgrace which is constantly
being brought upon religion by the administration of it being
intrusted to depraved and worthless characters. Every one knows
that this sorrowful truth is not confined to one church, nor even to one
country, but that, on the contrary, it is extending itself throughout
what is commonly termed all Christendom. Every eye must foresee
that awful consequences will necessarily result ; and, when the com-
parison of the present aspects is made with the words of Nostradamus,
every one will be looking forward with apprehension to the dismal
times which lie has predicted. Mercurius.
395
ILLUSTRATION, No. XL1X.
A SPECIAL
Prediction in the Prophetic Almanack, 1824,
Literally accomplished in the Breaking out of
THE WAR WITH THE BIRMANESE NATION.
On coming to notice this fulfilment of a direct and special predic-
tion, it requires to be said, that it was made at least six months before
the unexpected blow was struck by the sovereign of the Birmans.
The following extracts contain the words of the prophecy:
—
*' Our eastern possessions are not, as it seems, free from commo-
tion ; and I am mistaken if a more troublesome revolt is not breaking
out than we have ever had to quell in that quarter."—And in the
subsequent part of the work, laying still greater stress upon the sub-
ject, the author says, " I have before had occasion to observe some-
thing about a refractory spirit having manifested itself in the country
of the Nabobs ; and in this month (that is, November) there are signs
which seem to bear a similar construction. If we could import as
396 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
much virtue as we do luxury from our remote world, it might be well
worth our possession ; but, monopolized as Indian commodities are,
we have few evils that we ought more to desire to be rid of than a
footing in the oriental lands. Ireland is of far more real worth to
England than the empire of the Great Mogul could ever, with China
to boot, be made. Ireland is in the most abject condition, for want
of such a government as we hold, in Leadenhall Street, over India
;
and it is much to be implored, that some special relief may be
devised for the amelioration of the unfortunate condition of our sister
island."
EXTRAORDINARY VISION IN A DREAM, RALATED BY
DR. HERVEY.
Dr. Hervey, who was afterwards fellow of the College of
Physicians in London, being then a young man, setting out upon
his travels, and coming to Dover, with several others, produced his
pass to the governor, as the rest of those who were with him also did ;
but the governor told him he must not go, for he had a commission
to stop him.
The doctor was surprised, and begged to know what he had done,
that he should detain him ? The governor told him, it was his will
to have it so ; the reason he should know hereafter.
The packet-boat hoisted sail in the evening, and set off, it being
then very fair, with all the doctor's companions in it ; but, ere long,
a sudden storm arose, the packet-boat overset, and all the passengers
were drowned ; the sad news of which was the next day brought to
Dover. Then the governor told the doctor the reason of his stopping
him, though he had no real knowledge of him, only by name; but
that, the night before he came there, he had a perfect vision in a dream
of Dr. Hervey's coming to pass over to Calais, and had warning to stop
him from going ! This the governor affirmed to the doctor; and he
blessed his good angel for the care of him.
This story the doctor often related to his friends in the metropolis.
397
ILLUSTRATION, No. L.
CIRCLE V.—SECT. X.
Astrological Notices antr JJvc&ictiong,
WRITTEN IN SEPTEMBER, 1824.
Calculated from the new Moon of August 24,
BV RAPHAEL.
At the above lunation, the positions of the heavenly bodies are
remarkable, the undoubted precursors of many strange events : the
moon, after her conjunction with the mm, applies to the square of
Saturn, lord of the houses of wealth and honour, while she claims
prerogative over the eighth house ! Hence v/ill follow sickness, dan-
ger, and mortality ;
jealousy and separations among married classes,
and endless disappointments amongst the votaries of ©enu0. The phy-
sician, the sexton, and the undertaker, prosper. The slow but sure
influence of the greater infortune is now dispensed upon the youthful,
the grave, and the gay. Each submits to the imperious mandates of
the destroyer. A lady of rank and fortune meets disgrace, and many
death ; while, on the other hand, both riches and honour are most
398 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
remarkably showered upon the worthless and undeserving. In families
of rank, casualties cause deep and unfeigned sorrow. Sudden news
arrives: conjecture errs. The fiery £@ar0 again begins to rear his
standard; but the milder influence of Jupiter quells the rising storm.
A malicious attempt, or a slanderous libel, will soon occupy the pub-
lic attention. But justice may be blindfolded, while a horrible
catastrophe awaits one who has long been the favourite of fortune.
In foreign parts appear storm and hurricane. The fierce tornado
and the sweeping blast destroy both lives and property. The slave
is factious, his owner unbending ; murder, if not prevented by milder
policy, soon follows.
At home, the harvest flourishes ; the industrious farmer once more
rejoices in the bounteous gifts of Ceres. Money is plentiful, but yet
confined to few. Many projects of magnitude are discussed, many
fail.
Time throws his veil over the rest. But enough has already been
spoken to prove the validity of the science !
PREDICTION RELATIVE TO CAMBYSES, KING OF
PERSIA.
Cambyses, king of Persia, was told by the oracle, that he should
die at Ecbatana ; he, therefore, concluding that he should finish his
life at Ecbatana, in Media, did studiously avoid going thither : but
when, by the falling of his sword out of its scabbard, and his falling
upon it, he was deadly wounded in his thigh, being then in Syria,
he inquired the name of the place ; and being informed it was
Ecbatana, he acknowledged it was his fate to die there, and that he
had hitherto mistaken the name of the place."
399
ILLUSTRATION, No. LI.
"
. '
-
34
-&NI
L^gfe
-% J$L<.
.': r
_JjBBBHS"ii
"
-8BP13
581
CIRCLE V.—SECT. XL
ASTROLOGICAL CAUSES OF THE DREADFUL STORM IN
THE NIGHT OF SEPTEMBER 7, 1824.
Planets' Places, Sept. 8, 1824, Oh. 30m. past midnight.
y 11. 55. vf R. T? 7. 44. n. % 4. 20. ft. $ 19. 47. tri
? 26. 17. tt£. ^ 12. =~. » 9. 38. x. © 15. 13. m
Ascendant 22. 0. ©. Mid-heaven 23.0. x«
The above is the scheme of the planetary positions at the time of
a most dreadful storm, and which plainly shows the wonderful works
of God.
The watery sign, dancer, ascending ; the mooit in JPiscetf, another
watery sign, and applying to a trine of $®m in S^untio, who is in
Scorpio, also of the watery trigon. The moon is also applying to
the opposition of the sun, and separated from the square of £atum
in Gemini. Therefore, all these things considered, it was no wonder
the heavens were so much agitated.
400 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
I have often observed that, when the moon is aspected by ®enu0,
from moist signs, she has generally produced rain; but if from the
dignities of $@ercurg, much wind has followed.
In the present instance, the next after full, the moon meets the
opposition of Senilis. W. K.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LII.
CIRCLE V.—SECT. XII.
THE HIEROGLYPHICAL PREDICTION OF THE DEATH OF
THE LATE KING OF FRANCE.
BY RAPHAEL.
The above hieroglyphical illustration appeared in a former edi-
tion of this work, and was actually sent to the engraver nearly two
months previous to the death of the King of France, as can be proved
on oath,—a striking proof of the possibility which exists of foreknow-
ing the fate of empires and individuals by the language of heaven,
which never deceives the expert astrologer.
401
ILLUSTRATION, No. XLIII.
CIRCLE V.—SECT. XIIL
PREDICTION RELATIVE TO THE FRENCH REVOLUTION,
The following remarkable Passage is taken from the Complete
Magazine for October, 1764, p. 368.
M They (the parliaments of France) await the moment to strike
the blow that shall lay the fabric of despotism in ruins ! When this
blow is struck* the effects of it will be equal to those of magic. The
cottage will be put on a level with the palace ; the peasant with the
prince ; ranks shall be confounded. Titles, distinctions, and birth,
shall tumble into an undistinguished heap of confusion ; a new moral
creation shall strike the view of an admiring universe ; and France,
like old Rome in her first flights to empire, shall appear with the
sceptre of universal dominion bourgeoning in her hands. Out of
universal confusion, order shall arise ; the great, of nature's creating
will assume their places ; and the great, by title and accident, will
drop despised into the common mass of the people."
2d
402 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
WALTER, EARL OF ATHOL.
Walter, Earl of Athol, conspired the murder of James I. king
of Scotland, in hopes to be crowned, being encouraged by certain
sorcerers, whom he kept about him, who foretold " he should be
crowned ;" and <(
crowned" he was, but not with the crown of the
kingdom, but of red hot iron, clapped upon his head ; which was
one of the tortures by which, at once, he ended his wicked days and
traitorous designs.
Upon this occurrence the interesting romance of the Spaewife is
founded.
PRODIGY PRESAGING THE DESTRUCTION OF THE JEWS.
Josephus sets down this as a prodigy presaging the destruction
of the Jews. " There was," saith he, " one Jesus, son of Ananias,
a countryman of mean birth, four years before the war against the
Jews, at a time when all was in deep peace and tranquillity, who
coming up to the Feast of Tabernacles, according to the custom, be-
gan on a sudden to cry out and say, ' A voice from the east, a voice
from the west, a voice from the four winds, a voice against Jerusalem
and the Temple, a voice against bridegrooms and brides, a voice
against all the people.' Thus he went about all the narrow lanes,
crying night and day : and being apprehended and scourged, he still
continued the same language under the blows, without any other
word.
And they upon this, supposing (as it was) that it was some divine
motion, brought him to the Roman prefect : and by his appointment
being wounded by whips, and his flesh torn to the bones, he neither
entreated nor shed a tear ; but to every blow, in a most lamentable
manner and mournful note, cried out, « Woe, woe to Jerusalem /'
This he continued to do till the time of the siege, seven years toge-
ther : and at last, to his extraordinary note of woe to the city, the
people, the temple, adding, 6
Woe also to me P a stone from the bat-
tlements fell down upon him and killed him !"
—
Jos, Jewish Wars,
1. 7. p. 738.
403
ILLUSTRATION, No. L1V.
CIRCLE V.—SECT. XIV.
PREDICTION OF A SCOTCH SEER.
In the latter part of the 15th century, there lived in Scotland a
man named Thomas Lermouth, who was considered as a prodigy,
for the gift of foretelling future events. He had foretold, many ages
before it happened, the union of England and Scotland, in the ninth
degree of Bruce's blood, with the succession of Bruce himself to the
crown, being yet a child.
The day before the death of Alexander, he told the Earl of March,
that before the next day at noon, such a tempest should blow as
Scotland had not felt many years before. The next morning proving
clear and serene, the Earl rallied Thomas with the fallacy of his pre-
diction. " Noon is not yet past," replied Lermouth ; and soon after
arrived a messenger with news of the king's sudden death. " This,"
cried the seer, " is the tempest I foresaw ;" and such, indeed, it
eventually proved.
404 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY*
Extraordinary warnings from josephus the
historian.
Josephus relates, that a little before the destruction of the temple
of Jerusalem, there were heard in the night voices crying out, " Let
us leave this place, woe and destruction is here !"
EXTRAORDINARY AND FATAL DREAMS PRESAGING THE
DEATH OF KING WILLIAM RUFUS.
The night before King William the Second was killed, a certain
monk dreamed that he saw the king gnaw the image of Christ cru-
cified with his teeth ; and that as he was about to bite away the
legs of the same image, Christ with his feet spurned him down to
the ground ; and that, as he lay on the earth, there came out of his
mouth a flame of fire, with abundance of smoke. This being re-
lated to the king by Robert Fitz-Hammon, he made a jest of it, say-
ing, " This monk would fain have something for his dream ; go,
give him a hundred shillings, but bid him look that he dream more
auspicious dreams hereafter."
Also the same night the king himself dreamed, that the veins of
his arms were broken, and that the blood issued out in great abun-
dance ; and many other like passages there were, by which it seems
he had friends somewhere (as well as Julius Caesar) that did all they
could to give him warning : but that as Caesar's, so his evil genius
would not suffer him to take it ; for King William, notwithstanding
he was forewarned by many signs, would go out a-hunting in the
New Forest : yet, something moved with the many presages, he
stayed within all the forenoon ; but about dinner-time an artificer
came, and brought him six cross-bow arrows, very strong and sharp,
whereof four he kept to himself, and the other two he delivered to
Sir Walter Tyrrell, a knight of Normandy, his bow-bearer, saying,
"Here, Tyrrell, take you two, for you know how to shoot them to
good purpose." And so having at dinner drank more liberally than
WONDERFUL PROPHECIES. 405
his custom, as it were in contempt of presages, out he rides to the
,
New Forest, where Sir Walter Tyrrell shooting at a deer, at a place
called Charingham, the arrow glanced against a tree, or, as some
say, grazed upon the back of the deer, and flying forward, hit the
king upon the breast, with which he instantly fell down dead.
Thus died William Rufus, in the forty-third year of his age, and
the thirteenth of his reign ; his body was drawn in a collier's cart,
with one horse, to the city of Winchester, where the day following
he was buried in the cathedral church of St. Swithin.
—
Bak. Chron,
p. 53, 54.
EXTRAORDINARY DREAM TO MARGARET, QUEEN OF
FRANCE.
The night before Henry the Second, King of France, was slain,
Queen Margaret his wife dreamed that she saw her husband's eye
put out. There were jousts and tournaments at that time, into which
the queen besought her husband not to enter, because of her dream,
but he was resolved, and there did things worthy of himself. When
almost all was now done, he would needs run the tilt with a knight
who refused him ; his name was Montgomery ; the king was bent
upon it; they shivered their lances in the course, and a splinter of
one of them took the king so full in the eye, that he thereby re-
ceived his death wound.
—
Ibid. p. 475.
WARNING OF DEATH TO THE THEBAN TYRANT.
Acebias, the Theban tyrant, being at a feast, where were present
all kinds of merriment and mirth, there was brought to him a letter,
wherein he was certified of a plot that was upon his life: he never
read it, but gave orders, that as a thing serious it should be deferred
to the morrow, but neglecting that warning, he did not live to read
it, for he was slain that night.
—
Zuin. Theat. vol. 3. p. 698.
406
ILLUSTRATION, No. LV,
CIRCLE VI.
AN ORIGINAL SELECTION
OF THE MOST
Illustrious, <£mmntt, aitH Rrmarftafrie jlatibittr*,
BOTH OF THE PAST AND PRESENT TIME
;
Including those of his Majesty and the Royal Family of England, the Heir to
the Throne of France, Lord Byron, Graham the Aeronaut, George Bidder the
Calculating Youth, the notorious Harriet Wilson, and othe7*s no less worthy of
Notice by the curious or scientific Reader ; with a variety of Predictions relative
to the future Fate of these extraordinary Individuals, demonstrating the actual
Possibility of reading every remarkable Event relative to our Destiny in the
Stars of Heaven,
B^" "RAPHAEL,"
THE METROPOLITAN ASTROLOGER.
'* For centuries after centuries all branches oflearaing were either made subser-
vient to astrology, or carried on in close alliance with it: in the east, wheic it first
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 407
arose, at a period of very remote antiquity, it still even now holds sway. In
Europe, and in every part of the world where learning had ' impressed the human
soil,' astrology reigned supreme until the middle of the seventeenth century. It
entered into the councils of princes, it guided the policy of nations, and ruled the
daily actions of individuals. All this is attested by the records of every nation
which has a history, and by none more fully than by those of England. It may
be, therefore, fairly inferred, that the subtle spell which had strength to enthral
I stuff so stern/ could have been of no weak or vulgar order, but that it was suffi-
ciently potent and refined to interest and amuse even thepresent age."
Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos.]
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. I.
®5e Jlattbtta
Of His Most Gracious Majesty George IV.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LVI.
'< Celestial and immortal powers
!
O ! aid my pen. What in me is dark
Illumine : while I presume to treat
Of fate and chance and change in sublunary
Things." Milton.
408 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
The ascendant of this regal geniture is the twenty-sixth degree of
the celestial sign ©irgo ; and, according to the ancient rules of astro-
logy, the native would be born chiefly under the dominion of $Ber*
cutp, more particularly as that planet rules the mid-heaven. But by
a more attentive view of the illustrious horoscope, it will be disco-
vered, that the nativity is of a singular and extraordinary description
;
for, at the very instant of this royal birth, the beneficent planet ©e*
nu0 had just ascended the eastern horizon ; thus bearing principal
rule over the life and actions, and affording a striking proof of siderial
influence; for this benevolent star is the source of every pleasure
and elegant enjoyment which life affords, but particularly of those
depending upon the fine arts, music, poetry, and fashionable recrea-
tions, in which she never fails to render those born under her influ-
ence most perfect proficients and connoisseurs : while, at the same
time, she generally makes the native invincible in love, and a pecu-
liar favourite with the fair sex.
The moon in 3Tauru0, in conjunction with Jupiter, in a fixed sign of
the earthly trigon, in that part of the heavens which the ancients
termed her exaltation, surrounded by eminent fixed stars, and lately
separated from a mundane trine of the ascendant, in trine also to
fltenujer, both in zodiac and mundo, most excellently forms the men-
tal and intellectual faculties ;
giving an extraordinary genius, a pro-
found and retentive memory, sound judgment, together with a capa-
city for learning of the most exalted kind; the whole of which
almost every one in the British dominions must know to be exactly
verified in the present instance. His majesty has also ever been con-
sidered remarkable for his refinement and classical attainments : and,
independent of the halo of flattery which is generally visible in the
atmosphere of princes, he has, moreover, been uniformly remarkable
for taste, elegance, and polite accomplishments ; the never-failing
characteristic of those who have the rare felicity to be born at a time
when the benevolent planet ©enu0 is their natal star, or ascending
at birth in the eastern angle.
Hail star, by Jove illumed ! to thee we owe
Source of our joy and balsi of every woe
!
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 400
In fortuned adverse or propitious hour,
We share the blessings of thy bounteous power!
O but for thee, sweet star, how should we find
Those generous sympathies that charm the mind ?
That power ineffable which spreads around
Life's vernal blossoms in perpetual round,
Twines round pleas'd Nature's brow Hope's fadeless wreath
And raises her above the wrecks of death !
As a contrast to these shining qualities, the opposition of Huns,
and 3fobe to ^9aw, together with the fickle ^9ercurg, beingfixed in the
sign of the Lion, approaching the solar beams, and previously meet-
ing a quartile of the three planets before mentioned, would naturally
tend to cause great violence of the passions, if they were not go-
.
verned by the united force of reason and education ; they also signify
a mind peculiarly fond of sovereign sway, and of the etiquette of
regality, with all its pomp and decorations : but, at the same time,
these configurations undoubtedly incline to courage, giving also a
firm and decided determination and contempt of control which could
only be overcome by the most persuasive arguments.
The combined effects of ftemw arising—of the moon in her north
node joined with 3fupitet—of fifcol in Heo, a fiery and regal sign of
his own nature—in the house of friends, with the famous fixed star
Regulus of the first magnitude, the trine of tyttstfytll and $£ercurp,
and, above all, of the seven planets above the earth in their diurnal
circuits, four of them in masculine signs, with the eminent fixed star
Arista, in the house of riches, are positive testimonies of extensive
and extraordinary power, dominion, riches, and fame, equal, if not
superior, to any of the royal and illustrious predecessors of this dig-
nified native.
The Pars Fortuna falling, being calculated according to the Pla-
cidian method, will be found posited in the commencement of dancer,
which being angular in the zenith or summit of heaven, and disposed
of by the moon, who, although in conjunction with Hfupiter, applies
to $9ar0, is also symbolical of considerable wealth ; but this combi-
nation of aspects never makes a miser. The mundane sextile of
$$at0 and ©enufl, from cadent houses, denotes considerable loss of
money by the ways and means signified by that aspect, which are
410 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
chiefly through generous and munificent pursuits, and a dislike to
parsimonious or avaricious dealings.
The moon and SJ^arff cadent, the former in the south-west and de-
scending part of heaven, most amply denote travelling, which has
already been, and will again be verified ; but generally when least
expected.
As a proof of the correctness of the horoscope, it will be seen,
that the coronation took place under the direction of the mn to the
zenith or summit of heaven, an event which I certainly most plainly
foresaw, and which, although contrary to the opinions of most other
astrologers, I confidently predicted a considerable time before it took
place ; as numbers of my friends are ready to testify,—the calcula-
tion is as follows :
—
Ttie Astrological Calculation of the
Coronation Aspect.
Right ascension of the mn 141° 54'
Do. Do. of the C^eUium Coeli 83 48
The arc of direction 58
Which answers to fifty-eight years, eleven months, at which pre-
cise time, the native was publicly invested with the functions of roy-
alty.
It will be readily observed by the student in astronomy, that when
the mn came to the midst of heaven, that planet formed a square and
evil aspect with the ascendant. To this may be attributed the severe
attacks of illness, which for some time preceding this period was felt
by the native, and to the same cause we may attribute the disturb-
ances through the friends of the late queen, and other ephemeral
hostilities which seemed to have ushered in this grand accession of
honours, as with the appearance of temporary evil, for reges subja-
cent leges stellarum. Also, when the 0im came to the cusp of the
10th house he was in quartile to the 7th house, from whence we de-
rive the signification of marriage and public enemies ; this plainly
prefigured the death of the queen, and other disastrous events of that
time ; but it is a fact no less worthy to be remembered, that as the
above royal direction never fails to give honours late in life, so as
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 411
the 0un gradually approaches the summit of heaven, the effects be-
come palpably visible, and never fail to cause public notice, although
rather imperfect in their tendency ; but when once the arc of direc-
tion is completed, and when the mn has attained his highest meridi-
onal altitude, the effects are for years nearly the same. Hence arose
the acclamations and public honours which awaited the regal subject
of this article, after the coronation, in Ireland, Scotland, Hanover,
&c. Hence, the ease with which he overcame the vituperative efforts
of his numerous enemies, and hence the real cause of the increase in
popularity of the government ever since that period, which has yet
been a little mixed with opposition, precisely as the direction should
operate.
The ascendant, which is the true hyleg, being so famously fortified
denotes length of life, and a powerful constitution to resist disease ;
and from the strength of ®erW0, in the line of the horizon, the as-
pects of evil promittors have failed, hitherto, to cause any peculiar
effect ; thus, in the 39th year, the ascendant was opposed to Jfeatum,
but this, instead of giving the native illness, seems only to have
caused a partial derangement of his affairs ; it however gave illness
to his father the late king, and violent disputes in the government.
It was during the operation of this direction, (in the year 1801) that
the inglorious peace between France and England took place, with
many other events, that the attentive student will readily discover.
I might enlarge much farther on this most fortunate horoscope, and
might proceed to calculations whereby I could predict events ofmostsur-
prising consequence, relative to the above illustrious native, as con-
nected with the fate of the kingdom he governs, as well as of other
states connected therewith. 1 might, in particular, dwell with a
prophet's ardour, upon the events which will be produced by the
gun, approaching to the fiery star of $@ar# ; and when Jupiter begins
to set beneath the western horizon. This, however, at present, I shall cease
to do ; suffice it, that I read in the stars the most important changes. In
three quarters of the globe, they draw near, they approximate ; but
when the star of fllenus shall sink for a time beneath the lowering
influence of the Saturnine aspect, and #Par0 lends his aid, when the
sign of the <£*&& and Uie Hioit shall feel glutted with hostile rays, and
412 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
the ^Teorcian Star turn thrice to meet this baleful influence ; then shall
these events be even at the door :
—
And yet the bright celestial orbs on high
Shall even then protect their favourites
:
For Jove and Hermes shall combine ; nor Mars,
Nor Saturn, shall have yet the power
To change that noble fate, which at their birth
The horoscope decreed.
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. II.
The Nativity of His Royal Highness the
Duke of York.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LVII.
*A
X^
j> X<?
AUGUST 16,
1763,
10 h. A. M.
*Sx
^\A X
" O what a confluence of ethereal fires,
From urns unnumbered
Streams to a point, and centres in my sight.' Young.
The singular combination of celestial influence, arising from the
remarkable conjunction of Sol, ^erturp, ^arjat, and ©emw, in the
same si<m and house of heaven—the whole satellitiurn approaching
the meridian, and surrounded by fortunatejfaec? stars,—is an astrologi-
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 413
cal testimony of so illustrious a nature as rarely to be met with, and
of itself the greatest corroboration of a princely fate.
Added to this, the most eminent star in the whole of the celestial
hemispheres,*the transcendantly propitious £>pica WLitQinuis, is located
in the horoscope ; and the planet 3(upiter,the greater fortune, beholds
both Q$at0 and tSLtxmz with a friendly and benevolent sexangular
ray : the whole of which configurations have already been partly
verified in the distinguished honours, which the native has acquired
during his high military commission, as commander-in-chief of the
bravest troops in the world ; in which, as also in every other station
which this native is destined to fill, he has and will arrive to the most
exalted military renown.
The Ceorflian planet, angular in the seventh house, contributes to
render the life conspicuous, and tinctured with events of no common
influence. But it is to be regretted that this part of the geniture would
at times expose the concerns and undertakings of the illustrious native
rather to the hostility of adversaries, which has been experienced
often during the early part of his life ; while, on the other hand,
the trine aspect of Sol and the <2>eorcian, from theory trigon, in a
masculine conformation, is emblematical of the completest triumph
over his most obnoxious opponents.
The setting of Saturn' ponderous orb, in the descending quarter of
the heavens, would naturally cause both journeys and voyages ; but
the principal significators being fixed, the stay in one place would
also be of Ions: duration : and both the life and actions would also
in a measure partake of durability from the same cause. The cause
of ecclesiastical honours could not be more plainly shown than by the
sextile of the two eminent significators, 3(upiter and ^ercurp. The
significations of Saturn in the house of marriage have also taken
place, but may not be all entirely ceased.
When the 01m, who is here located in the zenith and angle of
honour and greatness, arrives to the conjunction of 3tupiter, by his
* Spica Virginus, the ear of wheat in the constellation Virgo —
" The star which crowns the golden sheaf,
The glory of the skies !"
414 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
converse motion, there cannot fail to be peculiar and corresponding
events, remarkable for good fortune, &c. ; which the astrological
student can readily calculate, yet upon which I do not think it pro-
per any further to enlarge, except that
—
" Aliquem ad honores promovere honoribus amplificaie."
CIRCLE VL—SECT. III.
Tlie Nativity of tlie Duke of Clarence.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LVIIL
<p >
w
s
AUGUST 21,
J 765,
3 h. 54. m. A. M.
" All events are but the consummation of preceding causes.
1 '
Tins illustrious native is born chiefly under the influence of the
0U!t and $9ars ; the former planet, according to the rules of ancient
astrologers, being strongly placed in his own house; with the famous
star Ecculu0, and Hfupiter, having just ascended.
As to riches, the geniture is very favourable, for the quintile of the
moon and 3fuptter, and £tenu0, bearing testimony, are emblematical
of wealth and fortune ; and also legacies and gifts, as well as unex-
pected improvement of the pecuniary resources.
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 415
The conjunction of 2Jeruifi and ^percurp, in the nativity of a sub-
ject, would have caused eminence in music, literature, or the fine
arts. As it is, they must give a strong bias that way, and some pro-
ficiency therein, but mixed with strange ideas.
Naval honours are well denoted by the moon in the 3d house, in
sextile to the film and £j£ arfi. The most remarkable position in this
geniture is the extraordinary similarity of the planets when compared
to those in the geniture of the Duke of York, the mn and $Par0
being actually in the same sign of the zodiac in both nativities !
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. VI.
Tlie Nativity of tne late Queen Caroline.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LIX.
(i The universal cause
Acts to one end, but acts by various laws." Pope;
This horoscope is evidently remarkable ; for here is not only a
ttellium, or crowd of planets in the south angle, but the constellation
416 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
of the Asselli, fixed stars of no very promising influence, are in the
oriental angle, and both 3Jenu0 and $&ercurp afflicted by the presence
of $er*cf>el.
The nativity was in other repects unfortunate : for Jupiter, the
greater fortune, is under the earth, and in quartile to the evil influence
of Saturn, the latter planet being in a cardinal sign, and in the
house of friends. But the worst and most conspicuous aspect of the
whole is the hostile square of the moon and $9ar0, from common signs,
of very pernicious tendency. This could not fail to cause a most
checkered and diversified life, many reverses of fortune, and not a
few enemies. There are many other significations to be derived
therefrom, for it inclines the mind in general to haste and irritability,
novelty, and unfixedness of principles, which would have been much
worse had the aspect not been partially befriended by favourable
influence ;
yet %upitzt in Hibra is not very powerful, for Saturn
here labours very hard to obtain the mastery :—
"The stars in their courses fought against Sisera."
Those persons who are in any way acquainted with the rules of
astrology will feel a smile of contempt pass over their features,
when, after surveying the square aspect of Hunaand fl^ara, they recol-
lect the whole of the circumstances connected with thefriends of this
illfated princess ; and, if there be any truth in the science (which
those who study it know well there is,) then a certain illustrious per-
sonage, in the opinion of an astrologer, was perfectly justified in the
line of conduct he afterwards pursued. It is not, however, to be
supposed that there existed an overwhelming fatality in regard to
this lady's life and actions ; for 3lupitct in trine to the moon would
give much energy and fortitude of mind, with the power of avoiding
the appearance of evil : but it is seldom that the evil rays of the stars
are not attended by powerful secondary causes, which, when thrown
into the balance, generally cause it to preponderate, as theirs* cause
intimated.
That the native should take many long and perilous journeys and
hazardous voyages is quickly seen by the occidental and descending
position of £$aw, as well as the rulers of travelling being assenting
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 417
thereto ; and the part of fortune angular. The concourse of stars
in the mid-heaven also denoted a life eminently remarkable.
The sun, in this geniture, is the true hyleg and giver of life,
being in the aphetical places appointed him by Ptolemy, and
Saturn is the principal anareta to whom we must look to the de-
struction of animation. Now, at the time this illustrious princess
died, the 0Utt, by direction, was arrived (by the rapt motion) to a
parallel of Saturn ; and the great conjunction of the two superiors,
Saturn and Jupiter, were by transit upon the very cusp of the south
angle, where the parallel was formed.
Also, in the lunation preceding, the luminaries were posited in the 6th
degree of Leo, where the apheta met the radical squares of the ©eorcian,
SJenu0, and $@ercurg. ^ercurg being also retrograde, in the middle
of the same sign. Although these ingresses would not have been
productive of any very powerful evil, had not the direction been in
active force, yet they were as so many inferior, yet malevolent agents
in causing the catastrophe. A quick or sudden death was also
shown by ^9at0 in Pisces, in the 8th house ; and Saturn being in
square to Jupiter.
Another event (unlikely at the time), but which I have no doubt
would afterwards have occurred, was shown by the lunar station,
namely,—the loss of popularity, and desertion by those who sup-
ported her, for those who have the trtoott squared by $$ar0, can
never depend on friends; had this princess. ..survived till Saturn
entered Gemini, this prediction would have been amply realised
;
which, however, a divine Providence, probably for some wise pur-
pose, ordained should not take effect.
2 E
418
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. VII.
The Nativity of the Infant Princess,
Elizabeth of Clarence,
WHOSE DEATH WAS PREDICTED BY "RAPHAEL.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LX.
" Just entering life, this little stranger eye'd
The scene of tumult, lik'd it not, and died."
The time of this royal infant's birth was taken from the public
papers, and the occurrence is within the memory of every one :
the horoscope is not in any way altered, the figure being set to the
estimate time of birth, as there given.
Now the moon being placed in the ninth house, within the aphet-
ical prerogative, becomes undisputably hyleg, and the chief foun-
tain of life, to whom we must refer for the speedy dissolution that
took place.
It will be readily discovered by the genethliacal student, that the
moon is most terribly afflicted by the mundane square of the 0un,
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 419
being within three degrees of this evil ray, and the mn himself is
conjoined with $$ar0, in the house of sickness, in sesquiquadrate
to the malicious star of featum, which latter planet is in semisquare
to the lunar orb also; and neither of the fortunes, Jupiter or 2Unu0,
assist to overcome this combination of virulent influence.
Some short period after the birth of the royal infant was an-
nounced, a military gentleman of high consideration, requested my
opinion upon the above geniture, chiefly as it related to the dura-
tion of the existence, earnestly requesting me to be candid and ex-
plicit in my answer. Having cast the nativity, I immediately dis-
covered that the horoscope was fatal, and that, unfortunately, the
stars had doomed the royal subject thereof to an early grave, (the
reasons for which were as I have before-named). It was, therefore,
with great reluctance that I delivered my sentiments to that effect,
which were unfortunately soon realised. I have been informed,
and have every reason to believe, that the illustrious parent received
an early intimation of my prediction, and that he in some measure
consoled himself with his loss, in consequence of my forewarning.
The positions were certainly most striking, and while instances of
this kind can be adduced to prove the reality of siderial influence,
the astrologer may laugh at the folly of those persons who condemn
this celestial science as an untruth, because it may perchance hap-
pen to interfere with their opinions or prejudices.
" Such as the shaft of Jove, which fiery red
Is launched in furious voyage through mid-heaven j
Such and so fatal, are the hostile rays
When 'erst the Hyleg sinks, by evil stars
And rays of death o'erpower'd."—Ancient Poem.
2e2
420
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. VIII.
Tile Nativity of the Due de Bourdeaux,
HEIR TO THE THRONE OF FRANCE.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LX.
« Oft, while calm night's dark wings the globe surround,
When the pale moon begins her lonesome round,
Then does the soul to starry orbs repair,
Those radiant worlds that float in ambient airj
And, with a regular confusion, stray,
Oblique, direct, along the aerial wayj
Then, with an anxious mind their rays we scan,
And hence we learn what they presage to man."
—
Virgil.
The celestial intelligencers are strangely placed in the above ho-
roscope, the planet 8Semi0 has just arisen, the mm predominates in
the ascendant, and is inclose conjunction with ^ercurg; both of
which, are in opposition to Saturn, that leaden star, whose perni-
cious course is rendered farther malevolent by his retrogade motion,
and increase of power thereby.
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 421
The moon, who is the aphcta, is placed also in a curious station,
for she is afflicted from the approaching aspects of both jsol and
isatum ; while, at the same time, considerably weakened by the ses-
quiquadrate of the violent £jj?ar0 ; and even the Georgian star, comes
in for his share of malignant influence, as if the hostile machinery
were not complete without his pernicious acquisition.
The natural consequences of these violent configurations to the
luminaries will cause much sickness during the infant state ; and,
without the interposition of Divine Providence, I am afraid the royal
infant is not fated to a very long life. Soon after the commence-
ment of the sixth year, the 0tm arrives to the obnoxious rays of
Saturn by an opposite aspect, and the moon, <f
the fountain of life,"
is unfortunately afflicted by the same configuration with the <2>eorgian.
At this time, and especially during the months of March and April,
f826, the physical results of these afflicting stars promise no very
favourable conclusion. However, if the royal infant survives his
sixth year, his constitution may be sufficiently strong to conquer the
remaining evils, and he may then live to years of maturity.
The square aspect of the moon and £percurg, the rulers of the
mental faculties, denote a quick, volatile, yet clever genius ; very
changeable, and addicted to strange fancies, fears, and conceits ; he
would also be easily biassed and swayed by his counsellors ; and
would be extremely partial to the military, and almost equally so
to the church ; both of whom have great reason to wish that he
may come to the throne of France. He would also be much be-
loved by the nation in general ; and, as his nativity decidedly agrees
with the nativities of the Kings of England, should he survive his
infant state, and come to the possession of imperial power, there
will be a great union between the sentiments, interests, and pursuits
of these two great nations.
The nativity is in other respects, especially in regard to wealth,
of a fortunate description, and very excellent in honours, should the
evil influences be any way averted, and life be prolonged.
11
The temporary condition of every thing below, is the canker-worm of all our
present comforts. What is youth, with all its endearments, but a dream, from
which crosses, cares, aud pains eagerly snatch us, and we are never susceptible
of its value, till past beyond recall!"—Rev. T. Basely.
422
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. IX.
The Nativity of the Right Hon. Lord Byron.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXII.
" There is a name that will survive
Royalty's monumental stone,
And, long as history can give
DeservM renown, must deathless live ;
Byron it is thine own."
—
Mirror.
The time of birth of this truly noble and most illustrious poet
was obtained some years since, from an authentic source ; so that
there can be no doubt of its correctness. And certainly, its perfect
agreement with the principally known events of his life exhibits a
most remarkable proof of astrology, by far too strong for the ene-
mies of the science to invalidate.
The extraordinary mental qualifications which the native pos-
essed are most amply demonstrated by the positions and confi-
figurations of the moon and $®muxi>. The latter planet is the prin-
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 423
cipal ruler of (he intellectual faculties ; and being free from the
affliction of the solar rays, in the moveable and tropical sign
Capricorn; oriental, and approaching a sextile of the ascendant, by
which means he may be said to be in a glorious position, contri-
butes, according to the quadripartite of Ptolemy, to render the
mind " clever, sensible, capable of great learning, inventive, expert,
logical, studious of nature, speculative, of good genius, emulous, be-
nevolent, skilful in argument, accurate in conjecture, and adapted to
science and mystery."* The page also adds, «' tractable ;" but
$9ercurp being in opposition to the £i oon and 5@ar0, instead of
tractability, gives an hatred of controul ; inspires the native with
the most lofty ideas and aspiring sentiments ;
gives him originality
and eccentricity, with a firmness of mind almost inclining to ob-
stinacy ; and which made this illustrious native such an enemy to
the track of custom, for which he was so remarkable, and which
contributed to form that lofty genius which alike rode in the whirl-
wind, or sparkled in the sunbeam.
The disposition and rational faculties are no less plainly de-
scribed by the position of the moon, in conjunction with £)£ar0
;
likewise, in a tropical and cardinal sign, wherein she is powerful
;
while $$ar3 is nearly in exact mundane trine to the ascendant.
These positions laid the foundation, from the moment of his exis-
tence, of that peculiarity of disposition ; that keen and cutting vein
of satire; that caustic and pointed wit; that quick, enterprising,
and daring mind ; that extraordinary development of energies,
passions, and eccentricities ; and that exquisite taste, talent, and
sensibility, for which he stood unrivalled. But, at the same time
that this position of the heavenly bodies gave sentiments of the most
perfect heroism and invincible courage, it is to be regretted that
it inclined the temper to be both hasty and irascible on the slight-
est occasion, and to increase the violence of the most powerful
passions
!
£$ercurp, it will be observed, is alone in the sign of the winter
tropic, and in semiquartile to Saturn ; which may account for the
solitary glooom that so frequently overshadowed his path through
* Vide Ptolemy's Tetrubiblos, p. 168. (Edition of 1822, by J. M. Ashmaud.)
424 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
life; as well as for that melancholy sadness which tinged some of
iiis brightest ideas, and which actually seems to have embittered the
latest hours of his existence.
It will be evidently remarked, as curious and worthy of atten-
tion, that neither ^Percurg nor the moon have any perfect aspect to
3fupttcr (for although SPercutE is approaching a biquintile of that
planet, the aspect is too far off to operate decidedly.) May not this
account for the detestation in which the illustrious native held the
religious cant of the day, and which brought upon him much ob-
loquy from the aristocracy ? It will be remembered by the student,
that in astrology, Jupiter always has signification of religious and
clerical matters.
Thus it will be observed, from a combined view of the above
testimonies, judged according" to the established and experimental
rules of the astral science, that the nativity plainly demonstrates
the illustrious subject thereof to have been endowed with the most
extraordinary and stupendous intellects, with a genius and imagi-
nation, as far surpassing the common run of poets, as the refulgent
rays of the meridian sun surpass the feeble twinkling of the
smallest star that arises in our horizon ! Neither is it a trifling
proof of the truth of astrology, that his geniture should so plainly
demonstrate that he was " born a poet."
The honour and dignity which the native obtained by the exer-
cise of his unrivalled talents are well denoted from the principal
configurations—for the trine aspect of Saturn, £3enu0, and Jupiter,
from scientific signs, to which also the 01m approaches, with
Regulus, that most eminent fixed star of the first magnitude, in the
midst of heaven, are ample testimonies of an illustrious name and
lasting honours, which neither time nor circumstances can obliterate.
While ^ercurn and the moon in opposition may denote frequent
causes of unpopularity while living, but which after his death
would be soon forgotten. It must also be remembered that $£ercur£
uniformly designates writers, critics, and the press in general ; hence
the frequent skirmishes, which this noble author had with the
literati of the age, in which, however, he generally came off as a
conqueror.
—
"Palmam qui meruit ferat."
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 425
Travelling to distant countries, and a termination of existence far
from the native land, is no less typified by the cadent position of
the moon and fl@ar0, in the fleeting sign £ancer ; £Par0, being also
the lord of the ascendant, denotes this event more plainly, (if the
system of the ancients may be allowed.
Infelicity in marriage and amours, is signified by the conjunction
of Saturn and Cftemtff, in a fixed sign ; this must also have contri-
buted to that peculiar tone which distinguishes his writings, when
treating of amatory subjects, and for which he has been much cen-
sured. But as Jupiter beholds the aspect, it is rational to suppose
that so far from the native appearing more moral, benevolent, or
virtuous than he really was, this aspect would have caused him to
represent himself by far more immoral than he was in reality; as
this configuration generally gives singular dislike to the customs and
opinions of contemporaries, and likewise inclines to peevishness or
romantic melancholy, yet it is not sufficiently powerful to over-
come the other tokens of a good disposition.
Having thus shown that the fortunes and disposition of this illus-
trious original were to be read in the stars, I shall proceed to give
the calculation of his death. But first it may be noticed, that, on a
general view of the horoscope, the planets indicate shortness of
life ; for the moon, the hyleg, is in conjunction with an evil star,
in opposite rays to another, and otherwise materially vitiated ; all
which are symbolical of that which ensued, and which I will now
arithmetically demonstrate.
The Hyleg directed to the evil Bays of the
Anareta,
OR THE DIRECTION OF D<E3a®.
Namely the moon to the opposition of Saturn.
o
TheR.A.ofthe > 107 53
Pole of the ]> 21 30
Oblique Descension of the D 116 6
Oblique Desc. of the £ of T? 151 49
Oblique Desc. of the > 116 6
The fatal arc of Direction 35 43
426 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Which arc of direction, being equated by the measure of time now
used in astrology, answers to 36 years and 3 months, at which precise
time, the native left this transitory and fleeting existence, for a life
of immortality.
I have given the above as the chief direction* which operated as
the fatal abscissor or destroyer of life, but there was also a no less
fatally evil train of starry influence coming up in quick succession
thereto, and which rendered it utterly impossible that existence
could be preserved ; neither was there any blame to be attached to
his medical assistants, for the stars appear to have fated him to an
early grave : and what those celestial orbs predict, in cases like
these, seldom fails to take place.
The following were the train of evil aspects :—
Years. Months.
> $ i? with lat. 36 3 >Deati>.
> S h in tfle zodiac 39 4
> $ £ in mundo 40
In the midst of these malevolent arcs, there was not a single di-
rection of 3fupiter or Glenujs to assist in supporting the vital powers
;
and it is also worth noticing, that, in the secondary directions, the >
had arrived to 21 deg of m» where she shortly after met the square
of Saturn, and a conjunction of—-$ and $ took place, in 10
deg. of <y>, each of these were equally pernicious.
I have given the arithmetical calculation of the direction which
cut the thread of his mortal existence, in preference to merely stating
my opinion of the cause, as it must be esteemed an unanswerable
argument, in demonstration of the solid principles upon which as-
trologers found their predictions ; it will also prove that the doc-
trine of chance has nothing to do with the science, but that the laws
of the heavens are as fixed and immutable, as those which govern
the universe. I have elsewhere mentioned that the combination of
celestial influence, amicably formed from fixed signs and angles,
give not only a durable fame, but posthumous honours ; the rule
need scarcely be applied in this geniture ; for if any thing could en-
dear the name of this transcendant poet more firmly to the British
* The celebrated Mrs. Williams predicted that this period would be very
dangerous.
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 427
nation, it was the generous act, in which he died, while fighting
for the liberties of an oppressed but heroic nation.
" So the bright globe that rules the skies,
Though with a glorious rise he gilds the heavens,
Reserves his choicest beams to grace his set,
And then he looks most great,
And then in greatest splendour dies."
—
Oldham.
" If we except Shakspeare, there is, perhaps, no writer in the English language
from whose works an equal number of poetical beauties can be selected as from
those of Lord Byron. He excels equally in the sublime and the pathetic. Every
theme seemed to suit his genius, and he could vary his style with his subject in
a manner, and to an extent, that our literature before had given no example of.
In his Don Juan he has given a flexibility to our language, of which it had
never hitherto been thought susceptible. He has shown it capa ble of rivalling
the Italian in the gracefulness of its inflections and the pliancy of its cadence.
Some, we know, there are, who would go on poring through the maze of his mel-
lifluous diction with no other aim than to find out a flaw in the sentiment.
The numberless passages, full of spirit and beauty, that cross them in their scru-
tiny, pass with such objectors for nothing : while their eye follows him into the
loftiest regions of poetry, they have no wish but to spy some spot upon his
mantle. To such persons we would address ourselves in the mild and forbearing
spirit of that admonition which we should all do well to remember—* Let him
that is without sin cast the first stone.' Thus much we may be permitted to
remark in behalf of Lord Byron, that they make a very erroneous estimate of his
character, who conceive he was capable of withholding his approbation from
right principles and virtuous dispositions, wherever they were found. An indi-
vidual to whom all his friends were attached with the strongest feelings of
regard, must have had many private virtues, and those too of no common kind :
for the rest, God is the searcher of hearts, and sees us all as we are. This recol-
lection may check the severity of our sentence where human frailty is the sub-
ject. When we bring our fellow-creatures into judgment, our own consciousness
may well inspire the best of us with moderation.
" That ' the paths of glory lead but to the grave,' is a painful lesson to philo-
sophy ; it was a lesson with which,—melancholy as it is,—Lord Byron was fa^
miliar; but it never for a moment damped his spirit, or depressed his energy.
His searching eye saw into the very inmost hearts of those * rulers of the world,'
who are struggling to arrest the progress of knowledge in Europe, and to erect
again * the standard of ancient night.' All the force of his talents, and all the
splendour of his fancy, were put forth to strengthen the love of science and of
freedom."
—
Mirror.
" Without a groan, a sigh, or glance, to show
A parting pang, the spirit from him past ;
And they who watched him nearest, could not know
The very instant, till the change that cast
His sweet face into shadow, dull and slow
Glazed o'er his eyes."
—
Portfolio.
"His mighty star is extinct in darkness, and his ruling planet has set for ever."
Albumazar.
428
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. X.
The Nativity of tlie Pretender.
From a Manuscript of the Seventeenth Century, in the Possession of
Mr. J. Farley.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXIII.
\ * /n\fr /
$ 28 \ A
X 2 9 \ /&
JUNE 10,
/%
/& 1688.
VV 9 h. 30 m.
XT Mane.
/*
*> X /^
t /
r/Y
X
/ \y* X
« Urania, thus with spotless truth array'd,
And rob'd in light, illumines every shade,
Like Phsebus bright, with strength and glory crown'd,
She energetic darts her beams around."—Mentor Stellarum.
The above horoscope is really a curiosity to the astrological
world, and may well afford some matter for curious observation,
if not for important discovery ; I give it without any alteration,
from the original MSS. and as I have not a chronology at hand, I
cannot sufficiently refer to the events of the period in which the
native lived, to explain their causes. But the circumstance of the
nun, Qfytttutv, and flleiuitf, being in the 10th house, or supreme an-
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 429
gle, in square to the moon was clearly indicative of loss of honour,
and as the moon is always the significator of the popular support,
and generally of riches and dignity, her affliction was decidedly
against the exercise of regal power. £^ar0 in the 11th house was
also typical of falseness, treachery, and want of aid from those
designated as friends.
" Cito sociorum olla male fervet."
The opposition of 3[upitet and S@ar0, and their mutual square to
Saturn, from cardinal signs, is worthy notice ; what a fortunate
event for England, that a native, bom to such misfortune, and so
unlucky from his infancy, did not come to the throne of these
realms ! What the consequence would have been had such an event
happened, I will not attempt to explain any farther than it must
have been very disastrous.
" Ad extremum halitum, inimicus libertate."
I would again beg leave to refer the reader to the rules I have
laid down for popularity, in pages 329 and 330 of this work, and
here are again found three planets in the same house, but they are
in common signs, and there is not one planet in a fixed sign in the
whole horoscope—another proof of the fleeting nature of whatever
greatness the native might acquire, which indeed could be but very
little, as the reigning configurations are remarkably evil.
430
CIRCLE VL—SECT. XL
The Nativity of George Bidder,
The celebrated Calculating Youth,
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXIV.
" In brief, in whatever sphere, whether of commerce or philosophy, persons
are placed, so happily endued with the influence of Mercuryy the mind will shine
with glory and advantage." Mentor Stellarum.
The time of birth of this remarkable youth was obtained from
his parents, and, from the conspicuousness of the astrological causes
for his extraordinary genius, exhibits a singular proof of celestial
influence over the mental faculties.
This celebrated calculating youth is born under the famous sign
Gemini, so noted for containing eminent fixed stars of the first and
second magnitude, and of commanding influence.
Astrologers, both ancient and modern, are unanimous in assigning
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 431
the dominion of the mental faculties to the moon and ££ercurg, and
according as these planets are well or ill placed, so in a great mea-
sure will be the intellectual abilities ; now in the foregoing horo-
scope, the moon is in exact zodiacal paralell to $@ercurp, and in con-
junction with the planet £)£ aw, the author of acute perception and
arithmetical genius; while ^ercurg is with the famous fixed star
aitiebaranj receiving also the testimonies of both gatum and
2f)er0C&eI, and further by the rules of the ancient astrologers, the
native is born entirely under the planet SJPercurg, who is placed in
his own celestial house, and well dignified.
These constitute sufficient reasons for that eminency which the
native has acquired by his astonishing powers of calculation. Yet
the nativity bears many marks of reverses of fortune, at different
times : and especially during the twentieth year, although there is
sufficiency of benevolent influence, to render the name of much ce-
lebrity, and the fame hereafter acquired may be more durable.
The astrological student will not fail to notice the curious con-
junctions in the horoscope, namely, of the moon, ©enu0, and $J£ar0,
in the earthly, and Saturn and $er0Cf)el in the airy trigon. This
proves what I have before advanced, that such a confluence of rays
cause celebrity and a public name. The singular station of the
©eorflian is also deserving strict attention, and the remarkable ap-
pearance of 8$ercur2 in his own house will go far to prove the
reality of the planetary dignities, which those who are learned in
this science must readily admit ; and if not, I shall hold no other
controversy, but remind them of the saying of Plato—
0YAEI2 ArEftMETPHTOS EIZITO.
432
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. XII.
The Nativity of Mr. John Varley,
THE CELEBRATED ARTIST AND JUDICIAL ASTRO-
LOGER.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXV.
"The study of astrology itself, as professing to discover, by celestial phenome-
na, future mutations in the elements and terrestrial bodies, ought perhaps not to
be despised. The theory of the tidesy
for example, is altogether an astrological
doctrine, and long before the days of Isaac Newton was as well understood as it is
at this moment. The fact of these allegations might be so easily ascertained,
that it is surprising they should still be pronounced incredible, and denied rather
than contradicted."—Blackwood^ Magazine, No. 59.
This gentleman is well known among the lovers of the fine arts for
his skill in that department of human talent ; and it is no less well
known, that he has already soared to a height far above mediocrity,
and is considered as a man of first rate abilities in the line he has
adopted, a fact the publicity of which evades any possible idea of
flattery from the pen of an astrologer. This skill in occult philoso-
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 433
phy, and the predictive art, is no secret amongst the more fashion-
able and distinguished circles, where his predictions have conduced
greatly to the revival of the belief in siderial influence. These par-
ticulars are clearly seen by a view of the nativity, where we find
the rare occurrence of ^etcurp in the sign Virgo, in conjunction
with Jupiter; and each in Sextile to the planet Saturn, a configura-
tion of no common or ordinary occurrence ; which is rendered
stronger by the moon being in the scientific sign Gemini, in her
ascending node, in sextile to the sun in Heo.
According to the rules of the ancients, he is born under 3(upttCt,
and certainly he is the exact personification of that description,
which the ancients have taught us to expect from that ascendancy,
being stout, fair, and well formed, of a generous mind, and a lover
of benevolence, exactly as they have described.
His profession is denoted by the sextile of ££bxh and tftenuB, the
latter planet being very strongly located near the mid-heaven, and
approaching a mundane trine of the ascendant ; and that he should
obtain singular honour and celebrity therein may be seen from the
amicable aspect of the luminaries, and the 01m being near Regulus,
in a sign of his own celestial nature; in other respects, Saturn so
near the mid-heaven, signifies many changes and temporary reverses
of fortune, at different periods of life, particularly when evil directions,
are operating, which has been the case already, as far as I have been
able to ascertain (for this geniture is inserted without the knowledge
of the native. J But Jupiter, beholding Saturn, the evil influence is,
in some measure, mitigated, yet by no means annihilated. I have
subjoined a table of the principal directions, by which it will be seen that
the moon arrives to an opposition of j^aturn, in the last half of the
forty-eighth year. This configuration is the forerunner of much
trouble and vexation, it will affect the native in his person*, and
various other ways, with a succession of sinister events, that I shall
forbear to enlarge upon in a public manner, as by so doing, I might
in some measure, affect his interest, and otherwise prejudice him.
However, I v/ould advise him to be very careful of his health at that
period ; neither should I have mentioned aught of these circum-
* As the moon is hyleg, I fear it will also give a serious illness, for the rays are
peculiarly noxious and alarming.
2f
434 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
stances, did not I feel convinced, that the native is so well versed in
the science, as to be free from fear, in hearing of that which his own
skill must have previously taught him to expect. If this evil aspect
is got over, there are many future testimonies of honour and dig-
nity, for—
" He who ©an paint
Like nature, whose imagination boasts
Amidst its gay creation, hues like hers,
He who can mix them with that matchless skill,
And lose them in each other, as appears
In every bud that blows."
Such an artist as this may well prove a lustre to his profession,
and inherit a never dying fame; the natural result of fortunate
configurations at his birth,
A list of the -principal Directions in this Nativity up to the 48fA Year,
Yrs. Mths.
> n % in mundo, con. 27 6
> >fc ^ zod. with lat.
© n T? in mundo con.
Mid-heaven to the # £
> D mundo converse 32
> A $ converse mundo 34
) * $ zodiac, without
latitude
> A $ con mundo
) * 1? mundo direct
# $ con mundo
> £ $ mundo
Ascendant to the A >
Mid-heaven to the >fc o.
Ascendant to the A J?
> A $ mundo con.
) * $ zodiac
Ascendant to the § $
> n T? zod. without lat. 43 11
> I $ zodiac 44 9
> A % converse mundo 46 10*
) <? J? converse 47 9
* Since the above nativity was sent to press, I have discovered that this direction
has produced marriage. This table of directions was sent for insertion in the
month of April, but through the derangement of the publisher's affairs, was de-
layed. This is another striking instance of truth in the science.
© d % in mundo
> sk $ mundo
Yrs. Mths.
8 3
9 6
* 1? in the zodiac 11
Ascendant to the A $ 11 9
<S £ lTi mundo 14 9
<j $ converse 15
> d T? in mundo, direct 16 1
semisquare 1^ mundo
Mid-heaven § T?
17
17
6
11
Mid-heaven * © 18 3
n ) in the zodiac 19 3
> D $ converse mundo 20
> A J? m tne zodiac,
without latitude 20 3
> A 1? zodiac, with lat. 21
Mid -heaven to the A > 22 3
> D 5 con. mundo 23 3
> £ 5 in the zodiac,
without latitude 25 3
Mid-heaven to the * I? 26 2
<$ $ in mundo
ak $ zodiac
26
26
6
9
28 3
28 6
31 8
32
34 3
39 6
39 9
41
41
41 4
42
42
42 6
43
43 6
43 9
435
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. XIII.
The Nativity of Merlinus Anglicus, Junior.
THE EDITOR OF THE PRESENT WORK.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXVI.
" Certainly if man may ever found his glory on the achievements of his wisdom,
he may reasonably exult in the discoveries of Astrology. The genius of Roger
Bacon, although he was theirs* of that school of natural philosophy, which ac-
knowledges none but experimented truths, was nevertheless bowed to the doctrines
of judicial astrology ; and his greater namesake {Lord Bacon), was still an
arguer in favour of celestial influences^—Ashmand.
This horoscope is inserted merely to guard against any future
misrepresentation of the envious, who oftentimes, upon the decease
of an astrologer, publish some erroneous nativity, and pass it off
upon the world as genuine ; therefore, the safest way is for every
artist to publish his own geniture during his lifetime, and thus they
will foil the base attempts of piratical authors.
I shall forbear, for obvious reasons, to enlarge on the above nati-
2f2
436 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
vity, but will just mention that the moon in mundane parallel to
3lupiter; ©enu0 near the cusp of the mid-heaven ; $$ar0 in exact
mundane sextile to the mid-heaven ; the 01m and Sflpercurg in sex-
tile to &atutn and 3flipiter, the part of fortune, with the
famous fixed star BUge!, the eminent star Capella, of the first mag-
nitude, and the noted constellation of SDrion ascending, with seven
planets above the earth ; are testimonies rarely to be met with, and
constitute a tolerably safe guarantee for the success of " The Astro*
loger of the Nineteenth Century"
Not only is the horoscope noted for good configurations, but there
is but one evil aspect in the whole nativity (the opposition of the
moon to $er0Ci?el), and that is too weak to have any peculiar effect.
" What though in solemn silence, all
Move round this dark terrestrial ball
;
What though no real voice nor sound,
Amidst their radiant orbs be found ;
In reason's ear they all rejoice
And utter forth a glorious voice,
For ever singing as they shine
The hand that made us is divine."
—
Addison.
In page 9 of the former edition, it was predicted that—"the na-
vity" of this work " was so fortunate, that years might have rolled
away without producing such an association of beneficent omens."
The prediction has been most fully verified, and in this instance as-
trology has again been triumphant.
437
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. XIV.
the Nativity of Harris the Aeronaut
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXVII.
"The belief of judicial astrology has obtained more or less in every age and
country in the world ; and, like some of the first truths of natural religion, ap-
pears to be so impressed on the human mind, that we predict it will endure for
ever."
—
Ashmand.
The nativity of this unfortunate gentleman was given me by
himself, a few weeks previous to his death ; and, from the striking
peculiarity of the astrological positions, it will no doubt be very in-
teresting to the astral student. He was exactly the stamp assigned to
£^ercurg, being of a middle stature, slender, dark eyes and hair,
very ingenious, quick, and amorous. He was by trade a cabinet-
maker, which circumstance is shown by ^percutp and fllemw, con-
joined in 3Fauru0, the sign of the earthly trigon.
That he should obtain much notoriety is evident from the circum-
stance of four planets in the same house, and from the eminent
fixed stars ascending with the horoscope, as well as from the moon
in Cancer receiving the rays of five planets, and the probability of
which was increased byfour planets being above the earth, arising
to angles.
The astrological causes of a violent death are various, but arc
438 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
chiefly the position of flpaw in ftireo, in mundane sesquiquadrate to
the ascendant, the $2leo> and the moon receiving the opposite rays of
Saturn and Jupiter by her square aspect to each. Neither did
$er0c£el in the fourth house conduce a little to the catastrophe ; but
the whole combined seem to have portended the fatal result which
followed. The figure is erected to the estimate time of birth, as
given to me by himself, but I have reason to believe it is not quite
correct, and if the time were made about nineteen minutes later than
the given time (and which was most likely the case, as few persons
nave the exact time of their birth), the ascendant, which, as I have
before said, was the fountain of life, and the true apheta, would be
afflicted by the mandane square of $gax8—as that planet would have
reached the cusp of the fourth house, and consequently would be in
evil aspect to each of the angles. This opinion derives some addi-
tional confirmation from the fact, that had $$aw been so near the
middle of the fifth house at birth, as he is in the estimate figure, the
native would have died in infancy.
At the time of his calling on me, 1 foresaw the danger he was
likely to encounter, as I suspected the true time of his birth was
something later ; and I was also struck with the curious position of
$®&t0 during the months of April and May, 1824 : for, by referring
to the ephemeris, it will be found, that this pernicious and violent
star was, nearly the whole of these two months, in the exact evil
place that he occupied at birth, and being retrograde, became still
more powerful to evil, a strange coincidence ; and, when I took these
circumstances into consideration, I candidly told him of the danger
which I foresaw in his nativity, and advised him, by every persua-
sion that lay in my power, to defer his aerial excursion till the first
week in June was over : but, strange to say, it seems that he was
fated to think but little of my advice, which is but too often the case
where the stars forebode violent effects ; and thus, although he had
timely warning to prevent the forthcoming evil, yet the malignant
star which then overclouded his destiny with pernicious influence,
eventually proved the strongest, and thus, unfortunately, his life be-
came an early sacrifice to the perils of his adventures.
439
CIRCLE VII.—SECT. XV.
Tile Nativity of G. Graham tlie Aeronaut.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXVIII.
While thus on high the silken castle glides,
Bright as a meteor, through the azure tides ;
O'er towns, and towers, and temples, wins its way,
Or mounts sublime, and gilds the vault of day j
The calm adventurer in ether sails,
Views broader stars, and breathes in purer gales
;
Sees, like a map, in many a waving line,
Round earth's blue plains, her lucid waters shine
;
Sees, at his feet, the forky lightnings glow,
And hears innocuous thunders roar below.
440 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
This gentleman, whose intrepidity and fearless contempt of dan-
ger and physical obstacles have obtained him much and deserved
celebrity, was born in London, November 13th, 1784, IOh.IOm. p. m.
at which time the heavenly bodies were placed as in the illustrative
diagram.
The powerful and regal sign Heo is in the ascendant, and the
qualities of his mind, his firmness, and strength of nerve, and his
singular courage, are clearly shown, by his being born under the solar
influence; by the conjunction of S$ar0, €>ol, and ^ercurp, in a
fixed sign, and the whole of these planets applying to 3fupiter;
also in a sign of fixed nature, by a square (and determined) aspect,
from powerful angles and constellations of peculiar influence over
the fate of mortals.
The conjunction of £)£ar0 with ^ttciitg, an(l the moon with &emi0,
denote a surprising degree of mechanical genius and inventive ideas,
which the native is well known to possess; while the trine of
#2er0Cl?eH to each of these significators sways the mental faculties to
pursuits of no common or ordinary kind, but mostly out of the reach
of custom, and those remarkable for strangeness or eccentricity. It
also gives very aspiring ideas.
The astrological student will no doubt inquire, in theTirst instance,
the cause of his pursuing the science of aerostation ; a science which
has had so few experimental supporters. This query may be best
solved by analogy and example ; and, therefore, it is best to give a
cursory glance at the nativity of Harris the aeronaut (page 437) , where
we find the sun and Jupiter, two powerful significators, both in
aerial signs, and well placed as it regards honour, &c. ; in the
present geniture, Jupiter, lord of the house of science, is also in an
aerial sign, disposing of Soma and ©enu0; and, by his being the
only planet in an angular station above the earth, may be considered
as the chief cause of the native pursuing aerial experiments ; although
the opposition of !£er$cf)eu" and £atum, the latter planet being in a
wonderful strong position, and in a superior station for public renown,
might have added a most powerful bias thereto. The circumstance
of jflupitcr (the author of wealth) in both these genitures, being in a
sign of the aerial trigon, is a most singular proof that the ancient
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 44 i
astrologers were perfectly right in classing the zodiac into different
triplicities, and dividing the constellations mio fiery, airy, &c.
The satillitium, or crowd of planets, in the angle of the fourth
house, is likewise remarkable, particularly as they all receive the
aspect of lupiter. To this circumstance is owing the celebrity
which the native has attained -by his flights through the aerial
regions. It is a singular fact, that, in Harris's nativity, there are also
found/our planets in the same house ; and I have never known any
one who, at their birth, had three or four planets together in the
same sign, or the same house, but they have suddenly become much
known to the world, and have acquired extensive popularity;
although much may depend on the primary directions then ope-
rating.
The student will perceive another signification from the positions
in the fourth house, namely, an inclination to abstruse studies. This
is also verified in the present instance, the native having gone very
considerable lengths in occult philosophy, particularly the alchemi-
cal art and transmutation of metals, in which science I have been
witness to some very curious experiments of his performing, and for
the effects of which a modern chemist would find it difficult to assign
the cause. It was from this inclination that he requested me to
insert his horoscope, in order, as he observed, that the occult science
might derive an additional strength from such remarkable confirma-
tions as appear therein of astral influence.
At the time the native commenced his career as an aeronaut,
which he did under most powerful obstacles, the moon came to the
semiquartile of $$ercur2 direct falling in the third house, the house of
journeys, &c. This was the chief cause of his first failure in his
intended ascent from White Conduit House, August 18th, 1823;
which arose almost entirely from causes that human foresight could
not prevent. And as a striking coincidence, as well as a testimony,
that there is a " time" for everything, and a season for every "pur-
pose" under heaven, also that, beyond a doubt, there are unfortu-
nate as well as fortunate days, on that very day the moon was posited,
at noon, in 19 degrees of Capricorn, on the identical place of *atum
in the nativity. She had also separated from the opposition of
442 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
lj$aw, the author of riot and the lord of misrule, who was then in
18 degrees of Cancer, and again applied to Saturn in Taurus/ The
great confusion and disorderly proceedings which ensued, together
with the heavy loss the native sustained—which amounted to nearly
three hundred pounds, and the abuse with which the different jour-
nals of the day thought proper to load him, in defiance of justice,
could not have been more plainly and remarkably typified.
It is a well known fact, that the unfortunate Harris, who ascended
with Graham from Berwick Street, Soho, and whose nativity has
been spoken of, began his aeronautic pursuits without any known
cause, as a direct rival and opponent to the subject of the present
article. This occurrence is also plainly seen by a contemplation of
the two genitures, by which it will be seen that the configurations
are remarkably discordant ; for not only are the two luminaries in
opposite signs (the sum in the nativity of Harris being in Gemini, and
the moon in Graham's in Sagittarius), but $$ar0, in the former geni-
ture, is in square to 3Umw in the latter; £?aturn, in the one nati-
vity, is in the opposite sign to the place of Huna in the other, with
many other planetary disagreements, that will be quickly seen by
the attentive student, and which could not fail to have caused a con-
trariety, both of fortunes and interests, between the two parties—
a
fact, the true cause of which was, in reality, neither more nor less,
than the celestial influence operating at the moment of their birth,
by which they were, in a manner, fated to become decided enemies!
Felix qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas.
The present transit of Saturn through Gemini is very unfavourable
for the pursuits and experiments of the native, and the evil is not
lessened for several months to come, so that he may expect much
vexation, &c. &c. And at the age of 41 years and 3 months, the
*un arrives to a semiquartile of £|5aw in mundo, direct motion. This
is rathe* a dangerous aspect, and I should advise the native to be
very careful of attempting any hazardous experiments at that period,
for $$at0 in this geniture is rather hurtfully posited, though much of
his malignance is done away by the square of Jupiter ; this, how-
ever, I need not urge any further, for the native is scientifically ca-
pable of appreciating the above salutary caution.
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 443
As the subject of the present discussion is now living, it would be
both unfair and illiberal, as well as detrimental to his interest, to
pursue my calculations any further, especially with regard to the
future. Enough has, I trust, been already advanced, to convince
every impartial mind, which shall attentively weigh the nice agree-
ment between cause and effect already spoken of, that, from the in-
stant we first draw breath in this world, to the latest moments of our
transitory and fleeting existence, we are entirely subservient to an
influence, and which we seldom can entirely avert or avoid by any
exertion of human prudence, although we certainly may, by making
use of times and seasons, greatly ameliorate the effects : it being al-
ways worthy to be held in remembrance, that both stars and planets,
with the whole machinery of the creation, are also entirely subser-
vient to the will of the Supreme Being, who can dispense with their
influences and agency at pleasure. But it is seldom that there is
any failure in the language of the stars.
The hieroglyphical scenery which surrounds the horoscope in the
annexed cut, has been already typical of what has occurred, as the
following evinces :
—
" Saturday, Mr. Graham ascended in his balloon from Norwich
;
not long after he ascended, the thunder storm returned with renewed
violence, and the frequent flashes of lightning must have made the
situation of the aeronaut peculiar and cw/u/."—Times, August 10th.
444
CIRCLE VIII.—SECT. XVI.
The Nativity of J. English, Student in
Astrology-
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXIL
^\7
/f/
January 17th,
1795,
llh. 10m. P. M.
" What is the sky, but a magnificent timepiece, on which they are imprinted
in legible characters, to announce its principal epocha as it passes ; and is not the
science which decyphers these luminous and interesting signs, valuable in propor-
tion to their importance ?"
—
Glory of the Heavens.
The above horoscope was given me by the native himself, and 1
insert it merely as an example worthy of remembrance by the stu-
dent, on account of the strange variety of aspects to be found therein
;
such as the mundane sesquiquadrate of Saturn to the ascendant, and
his semisquare to the mid-heaven ; the sesquiquadrate of ©emi0 and
Saturn ; and the singular conjunction in the tropical sign Capricorn
;
all of which are leading features in the nativity, and which merit it
a place amongst remarkable horoscopes. As I am an enemy to all
party-spirit, and as rivalry in the science is beneath my considera-
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 445
tion, I shall forbear to descant upon the good or bad fortune to which
the native is fated,—leaving that for time and circumstances to dis-
cover ; but 0£ercur£ with Jupiter should certainly make the native
both acute and ingenious, and the trine aspect to &aturn gives great
solidity of ideas, and no want of understanding ; yet the square of
the moon and #$ar0 inclines much to eccentric notions. My chief
motive in inserting this geniture being to disclose the validity of
directions, I subjoin a list of the most remarkable ones in the horo-
scope, with the measure thereof equated to annual periods up to the
35th year of life.
A List of the principal Directions in the above Horoscope to the 35th
Year ;
planispherically equated.
Yrs. Mths.
Mid-Heaven to the sesquiquao . _ _ , . , . ..
^ n
> 6 6 Death in the family,
drate of ^ >
6 % converse in mundo .... 10 5
Q <4 £ convers in mundo 12 3 Improvement of mind.
D (J $ in mundo 13
3) * $ direct in mundo 13 3
sesqui. T? converse in mundo . . 13 9
Mid-Heaven to the # T? 18 1
Ascendant to the A $ 23 6 A removal.
semiquar. $ in the zodiac . . .'. 23 6
D * $ in the zodiac 23 6 Success in business.
* }) in the zodiac 24 5
]> D $ converse in mundo .... 24
Ascendant to the * $ 24 7 Prosperity.
* $ converse in mundo 25
Ascendant to the quintile $ 25 9
n C Trouble, loss of mo-
© a h in the zodiac 26 2 < ,.
w * C ney, and disgrace.
& $ converse in mundo .... 27
D semiquartile i£ converse 29 7
D 6 $ in mundo ... 29 7 Became an author.
> semisquare $ direct in mundo 30 Evil and vexations.
446 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Yrs. Mths.
Preferment to some
office.
]) semiquartile g converse 31 Loss and anxiety.
Ascendant to the semisquare of D 319 Removals & changes.
An unfortunate time,
and singularly evil.
D A I? in the zodiac 34 A change in affairs.
2> (5 % in murrdo 30 4<
T> <? 1? converse in mundo 32 6<
I have given the effects of a few of the leading directions, as far as
I obtained the effects of them from the subject of this article. The
native was very prosperous, as he himself informed me, during the
25th and 26th years of his life ; and in the 27th year, the isim
coming to the square aspect of £atum, laid the foundation of a
train of evils, which were afterwards severely felt, and which pro-
duced loss of money, domestic unhappiness, and many calamitous
events. At the age of 29J years, the moon arriving to the con-
junction of (J^ercutE, gave, for a time, both notice and partial cele-
brity, chiefly through writing in an ephemeral publication, now dis-
continued ; which circumstance I partly predicted, and which caused
the native to become partially known to the astrological world : but
chiefly through the sending forth some singular and eccentric opinions
relative to astrology, that time does not appear to sanction. At 30
years and 4 months, the moon, coming to 3(upiter, is very likely to be
productive of some favourable change in affairs, and may give pecu-
niary emolument ; but the moon to the opposition of Saturn, in the
33rd year, is very evil. The native must be very cautious in his pur-
suits at that time, and be careful of rushing hastily into that from
which he may find it difficult to extricate himself; for at that period
the heavens are lowering, and portend a storm of no small magni-
tude, with a disastrous combination of evils and hostile events that I
shall forbear to enumerate, being confident the native is capable of
duly appreciating my prediction.
" Verbum sapientia satis."
April, 1825.
447
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. XVII.
Nativity of Mr. Muss,
LATE ENAMEL PAINTER TO THE KING.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXX,
The moon commands the seas ; she drives the main
To pass the shore, then drives it back again
:
And this sedition chiefly swells the streams,
When opposite she views her brother's beams j
Or when she near in close conjunction rides,
She rears the flood, and swells the flowing tides.
—
Manimus.
This gentleman was of much celebrity, and well known as being
particularly skilful in his line of business. The astrological reason
of which may be traced to the conjunction of Venus and Mercury,
and the partile aspect of the Moon to Mars, as well as by Venus and
Mercury in the fiery sign Aries, and the Sun in Pisces, arising in the
eastern angles, while the moon, in the degree ascending, affords a
combination of influence seldom met with, and which never fails to
give a fame in business or profession, and notice from noble persons.
448 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
I am not acquainted with any of the past events of his life (the
nativity being given me by a friend of the deceased ; but I have cal-
culated the directions which produced his death. The horoscope
is set precisely to the estimate time of birth, and I have inserted it
without the slightest alteration. The moon in the nativity, is
the true hyleg, for, by her mundane position, she is more than
seven degrees beneath the ascending horizon ; and the native's death
was occasioned by an attack of erisipelas, of which he died on the
14th June, 1824, at the age of forty-two years and nearly three
months; at which time the moon came to a zodiacal parallel of the
planet £^aw, in about eight degrees of the sign t£auru£, followed by
an evil train of directions that could not fail to destroy life, and
which were as follow :
—
> zod. par. $
> sesquiquadrate $ in mundo converse 44
D d $ in the zodiac
]> d $ in mundo
D d C? in z0&* without latitude -
The astrological cause for the disease of which he died, may be
attributed chiefly to the circumstance of the place where the parallel
fell, being in sesquiquadrate to 3(upiter, and in semiquartile to
i£er0C£eH, together with the preponderance of the planets in fiery
signs at birth, which could not fail to produce inflammatory diseases.
It is singular that the direction which produced his death was not
complete at the time he died. The parallel was not fully formed till
several months afterward, which is a curious circumstance, and con-
firms the opinion of Placidus, who frequently found that, in a
parallel, the effect took place some time previous to the exact com-
pletion of the arc itself, owing to the magnitude of the planetary
bodies, which produces the effect before their centres arrive to the
same point of declination.
In the secondary motion, it is worthy of remark, that the moon
had attained to the fourth degree of t!Tauru0, where she soon after
met the radical conjunction of £gaw. So that, on both the primary
and secondary direction, she was placed in the same sign, and in
Arc.
41° 38'
Date.
Years.
42
Montbs.
3 £>eatf>.
44 21 45
44 45 45 5
47 3 47 9
48 20 49
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 449
both was free from any assistance of the fortunes. I should sup-
pose, that no one who has studied the science attentively will refuse
to admit the moon as apheta. But should there be any who are so
fond of opposition as to contend therewith, I will just mention, that
the 0un came by direction to the conjunction of (©aw, both in zodiac
and mundo, in the 32d and 33d years. But these directions no way
affected life ; yet they might have given great anxiety and trouble,
as well as change of residence : whether or not they really did so,
I am not at present capable of ascertaining.
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. XVIIL
Tlic Nativity of Harriette Wilson
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXI.
" The harlot Venus reigns, anon,
Let Mars no aspect send.
For quartile and opposition,
To love is never friend.
See maidens to your hapless loves,
Beware the jest and glee,
Forjealousy if once awaked,
Will make your true love's flee."—Old Ballad.
2g
450 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
The above singular horoscope, I have every reason to believe, is
correct in point of time, as it was given to me by a lady of fashion,
who was formerly well acquainted with the extraordinary subject
thereof; and who once accompanied her to the celebrated Mrs.
Williams, for the purpose of astrological information.
There can scarcely be a more curious combination of celestial in-
fluence than is found in the above curious geniture, which' merits
particular attention from the astral student ; for, at the first glance,
we perceive the 0tm, moon, Saturn, Q&ercurp, &emi0 and Jupiter, to
be all located in the same celestial sign, Capricorn, and the whole of
these descending in the western part of the heavens ; the planet
tyerse&cl, arising in the eastern angle, and opposed to this combina-
tion of celestial influence. These configurations, according to the
opinions and practice of the oldest and most famous astrologers, arc
indicative of a fate, superior in its nature, exalted in its changes,
and productive of both riches and honour ; but the most singular
aspect is, the close conjunction of ^aturn and ^etcurg, opposed by
Jfcewcljel ; when we take into consideration that $9ercurp rules all
kinds of books, papers, writings, authorships, and letters, and that
the Georgian planet signijies public- opinion, we need seek no further
cause for the singular manner in which the native has made herself
conspicuous at the present period. But " verbum sapientia satis.
1 *
La belle Harriette will do well to remember that this singular aspect
has other significations; and let not the fleeting effects of this con-
figuration be considered as decisive of what it at present seems to
portend, for, when Saturn and fl^ercurg give any remarkable good,
it too often happens that the result is tenfold more evil than the tran-
sitory benefit thereby acquired.
u Exitus acta probat."
The nativity is undoubtedly of a fortunate and commanding de-
scription, and the position of the stars, excellent in every instance
save one, for a female to be born under. But in the 43d and 44th
years, the celestial intelligencers seem very singularly posited, and
the planet predominating at birth, may be probably clouded with
certain sinister aspects, that it would not be exactly proper publicly
to enumerate, therefore I shall conclude this subject by a hope, that
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 451
the fair Haniette will not be led to slight celestial omens, but by
using a proper caution at certain periods, endeavour to avert what
may otherwise prove of serious import.
Sic donee.
April, 1825.
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. XIX.
Tlie Nativity of a Military Officer.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXII.
®A
<y%>
A*&
*j^A 06 V??
y ? o 20 V&
/ ? 1830 \A
CAPT. C D.
Born
March 20, 1794,
llh. 40m.
Mane. A$
A r$<
*\A ^
"Does not the history of all ages
Record miraculous presages,
And strange turns in the world's affairs
Foreseen by astrologers ?"
" The sage drew forth his astrolabe,
And cast a wary look ;
Quoth he, « Bright hero, have a care,
For in the heaven's high book,
I read a quartile most malign ;
And eke thy natal star
Shall suffer most malevolently
In this same cruel war
:
But Jupiter does thee befriend,
And promises a happy end." '—Old Ballad
2g2
452 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURV.
The following remarks I have inserted, in order to convince the
scientific student, that the doctrine of primary directions is the chief
basis and groundwork whereupon the astrologer should build his
predictions. The example above alluded to is the horoscope of a
military officer, well known in the higher circles, with whose past
life I am well acquainted, and whose nativity I some years since
minutely calculated ; since which period, the remarkable fulfilment
of my predictions induced him to request its insertion in the present
collection of extraordinary genitures ; a request to which I accede
the more readily, as it may possibly afford some matter for the stu-
dent to establish his theory of directional motion, particularly in
regard to the measure of time used, &c. &c.
The history of the native cannot be interesting, as, through mo-
tives of delicacy, I am not at liberty to publish his name till after
his decease ; but I will just mention, that he was descended from an
ancient and honourable family, well known in the west of England,
and born to a competent inheritance ; that his parents died in the
years of his minority, and that, for a time, his finances were much
perplexed through vexatious litigation and the artifices of his guar-
dians, who used every method to appropriate his paternal estate to
their own use, but in which they wow, disappointed, through the
sentence of the lord chancellor ; the trial of which cause occupied
much attention at that period.
The whole of these events are plainly enough to be seen by the
moon being in conjunction with the planet C$ar0, in opposition to
Saturn, and the cun being in square to jlupiter ; as well as by the
part of fortune being governed by Saturn from an evil position.
After this period, the native purchased a commission in the army
;
his regiment was destined to India, whither he went, and obtained
not only the personal thanks of his commanding officer for his meri-
torious conduct, but received a vote of thanks from the Honourable
East India Company. And it was during his stay in India that he
formed a lucrative match, and became an early widower, inheriting
an immense property at the death of his wife, which induced him
soon after to throw up his commission, and return to his native land.
It was in the year 1816 that I calculated his nativity, and up to
REiMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 453
the present time. It is with feelings of pleasure and satisfaction
that I announce the triumph of astrology, as the whole of my pre-
dictions have been most amply fulfilled ; although others equally
as important remain to be verified, —particularly the period of his
decease, which I have also his request to publish, as he has had sufr
ficicnt strength of nerve to bear even that prediction, which he
wished me most particularly to calculate, esteeming it a real benefit
with the inspired writer, whose words are, " Teach me to know the
number of my days, that I may know how frail I am."
A LIST OF THE DIFFERENT ARCS OF DIRECTION
In the foregoing Horoscope, calculated by the zodiacal Planisphere,
and equated secundem artem.
Arcs of direction.
D c? h mundo.
semisquare J?
D A $ zodiac
d j mundo
0d 5 zodiac
M.C. A ^
M. C. 6 2
n X con.
5 <S T? con.
D 8 3 con.
> A © direct
pai
D A
\ $ con.
$ mundo
rapt par $
Yrs.Mths.
1 4
11 9
15 8
15 8
16 9
17
22 8
23 9
24 1
24 7
25 9
25 10
26 3
26 6
This malevolent position of the stars caused the
death of the mother while on a voyage.
At this period his father died.
These aspects gave high distinction for the ex-
traordinary display of his abilities at the
place of his education.
Eminent directions, which gave distinguished
notice from friends, a removal, and prosper-
ous changes.
When Mercury reached the mid-heaven, the
decision of a lawsuit took place in the na-
tive's favour, whereby he became possessed
of much property, and attained some lite-
rary eminence.
The sun, meeting the square of It , caused a
loss, by a loan of money and death of a re-
lation.
Accusations and litigation, with vexatious
events.
A very unlucky period. At this time the na-
tive received a violent blow on the head
(which I had exactly predicted would take
place), and had a severe fit of illness. He
also, after his recovery, travelled, but still
met with losses, crosses, and many perplex-
ities.
Under these directions he recovered his losses,
and was promoted.
Under these directions I had forese
en much
benefit; they caused marriage to a wealthy
heiress, who was well descended—in stature
tall, and remarkably fair and handsome.
This caused a fever, and afterwards other trou-
bles—particularly a narrow escape from being
bit by a venomous reptile , while walking
near the sea-side.
454 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
Arcs of Direction.
rapt par j?
$ rapt par J?
©A $ con.
© A if, zodiac
> * % con.
> A $ zodiac
O zod. par. $
© zod. par. t?
Rapt. par. of j? g
Asc. A
Asc. A $
<9 D zodiac
® 8 $ zodiac
© 8 $ m.
© ^ T? zodiac
]) A ^ zodiac
© <$ I? m.
Yrs.Mths.
27
27
28
5
29 9
32
33
9
33
33
2
7
Illness of the wife, first began through a violent
cold.
The death of the wife now took place.
Under this aspect of the planet he returned to
England, and had a prosperous voyage ; but
soon after lost a friend.
At this most fortunate period he received a le-
gacy from a female relation, which was
chiefly landed property, in the west of Eng-
land.
FUTURE EVENTS.
The first of these directions will give a legacy,
from a stout, fair, middle-aged person, who
may reside at some great distance; and the
latter denotes a voyage for profit: both
are active and prosperous.
Now must the native be extremely careful of
his health, for these lowering aspects of the
celestial intelligencers portend a fearful storm,
yet the direction will not affect life. The ex-
tremes of cold and heat are to be carefully
avoided, for Mars and Saturn are hostile both
in nature and influence.
This direction will give a vexatious law-suit.
Under the force of these directions, I expect the
native will contract a second marriage, more
honourable, but less advantageous than the
first.
This may give a voyage, and slight danger by
water, or some hurtful or noxious liquid, by
means of a female domestic.
Gloomy and lowering are the aspects of these
pernicious stars. Evil rays and noxious in-
fluence usher in the 39th and 40th years.
Saturn and Mars combine to afflict the alphe-
tical orb, who is not upheld by a single
ray of Jupiter or Venus ; added to which, the
moon beholds only Herschel, whose trine can-
not assist in averting that which the fates
portend. His destiny is now about to beful'
filled, and nothing but a miracle can prolong
existence, after the period of 38 years and
9 months
!
The predictions in this nativity are a literal copy of the original
one, written as aforesaid by me, some years since : and it is but jus-
tice to the native to observe that he is acquainted most fully with
the prediction of his death, and philosophically looks forward to
the period when he will cease to be an inhabitant of these sublunary
regions, and when the immortal spirit which now is clogged with
its frail earthly tenement will be ushered into an eternity of pure and
invigorated vitality
:
35 3
36 6
36 8
38 5
38 9
39
39 7
39 9
40 7
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 455
1
The soul, secure in her existence, smiles
At the drawn dagger, and defies its point;
The stars shall fade away, the sun himself
Grow dim with age, and nature sink in years,
But thou shalt flourish in immortal youth,
Unhurt amidst the war of elements,
The wrecks of nature, or the crash of worlds \"
" For come it slow, or come it fast,
It is but death that comes at last."
CIRCLE VI.—SECT. XX,
Nativity of a. Child,
WITH THE PREDICTION OF HIS DEATH CALCULATED
BY TRIGONOMETRY.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXIIL
" First in his cast the glorious lamp was seen,
Regent of day, and all the horizon round
Invested with bright rays, jocund to run
His longitude through hcav'n's high road ; the grey
Dawn and the Pleiades before him danced,
Shedding sweet influence"—Milton,
456 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
The above geniture exhibits the face of the heavens at the birth
of an infant, the son of a Builder in Thames Street, and whose death
I have predicted will take place at the age of eight years and twelve
days, or within the period of eight years and one month at farthest.
The nativity is a singular one, but the sun claims the aphetical
place, as giver of life, who is meridional ; and in the sign Taurus,
the planet Mars is the abscissor, or destroyer of life, who is likewise
posited in the same sign, and void of any friendly ray to avert his
hostile influence ; consequently, when the sun arrives to the con-
junction of Mars, the native will pay the debt of mortality.
The calculation is as follows, which will serve as a praxis for
other trigonometrical calculations (the rules for which I have laid
down in the fourth circle. of this work).
Deg. Min.
R. A. of the mid-heaven 13 48
R.A.ofthe© 29 49
Right distance of the © 16 1
Declination of the 12 UN
Semi-diurnal arc of the 105 46
Then, as 105° 46', the sun's arc, is to 90 degrees, so is the right
distance, 16° 1', to the difference between its circle of position and
that of the meridian, 13° 37' which, subtracted therefrom, gives his
ascensional difference under his own pole, 2° 24'.
To obtain the sun's pole, proceed thus
:
Deg. Mia.
To the sine of the ascensional diff. .... 2 24 .
.
8,62196
Add the co-tangent of the declination . . 12 11 .. 10,66574
The sum is the tangent of the ©*s pole 10 40 .. 9,28770
To calculate the direction of death, proceed thus
:
Deg. Min.
Pole of the sun 10
Ascensional difference of © 2 24
Oblique ascension of © 27 25
R. A. of $ .38 14
Declination, North 15
Ascensional difference under the sun's pole 2 54
Oblique ascension of $ 35 20
Subtract the oblique ascension of the © ........ 27 25
Arc of direction . .4. 7 55
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 457
Which, turned into time, answers to eight years and twelve days
—
the time of death ; which is the more certain, as Mars is in the
ecliptic, and without any latitude. __.
It has been well observed by an eminent writer*, that—" There
are some men of narrow views and grovelling conceptions, who,
without the instigation of personal malice, treat every new attempt
as wild and chimerical ; and look upon every endeavour to depart
from the beaten track as the rash effort of a warm imagination, or the
glittering speculation of an exalted mind, that may please and dazzle
for a time, but can produce no real or lasting advantage.
" These men value themselves upon a perpetual scepticism, upon
believing nothing but their own senses, upon calling for demonstra-
tion where it cannot possibly be obtained, and, sometimes, upon
holding out against it when it is laid before them : upon inventing
arguments against the success of any new undertaking, and, where
arguments cannot be found, upon treating it with contempt and
ridicule.
" Such have been the most formidable enemies of the greatest be-
nefactors of the world ; for their notions and discourse are so agree-
able to the lazy, the envious, and the timorous, that they seldom fail
of becoming popular and directing the opinions of mankind."
The enemies of astrology are precisely of the stamp here described;
and as the science has been hitherto considered only " as an expiring
lion, which every ass might kick with impunity," it is probable that
the doctrines I have advanced may be treated with nothing short of
contumely by the prejudiced enemies thereof: as an instance of
which, I need only refer to the various encyclopaedias of the present
day, the whole of which, with one exception only f, have thought
proper to decry the science—but, forsooth, without giving a single
principle on which it is founded ; a most excellent way, surely, to
explode a theory, which is above their comprehension ; but which
these dogmatical heroes of criticism upon ancient learning would
not dar e to follow in descanting upon any other science ; because
* Dr. Johnson.
t The Encyclopaedia Londinensis, article Astrology—where a clear statement
is given of the principles and theory thereof, well worthy the reader's attention,
458 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
they would have to defend themselves from the satire of some living
author. " The dead," however, " tell no tales,*' and these he-
roes of encyclopsediac mystery know well that there has been but
one author who has treated of the science methodically for nearly
half a century. Now, did these wiseacres really know the method
to be effectually pursued, in exploding any science devoid of truth,
or had they skill to decypher these celestial arcana, they would
take at least some half-a-dozen nativities of living characters, and
having laid down the rules of the astral science, they would prove
their truth or evasion, by comparing them with the lives and fortunes
of the persons whose genitures were under research. This would be
the most impartial, and, indeed, the only method of convincing man-
kind that astrology is a delusion. But no ; these persons either have
never sufficiently learned the rudiments of the science to do this, or,
if they have, are afraid to adopt a method which would certainly
cover them with confusion and obloquy. And I will here challenge
them, one and all, to produce a single nativity, where the rules I
have laid down * for the edification of the young student have once
failed. Let us, therefore, hear no more of astrology being a futile
science f, for not only has it a foundation as stable as the universe,
but it has been the admired study of the most renowned poets, law-
givers, statesmen, orators, and sages, of all nations and in all ages.
And, as a further proof thereof, I have selected, from amongst seve-
ral thousand genitures, those of the most celebrated characters, mos
of which are either now living, or have had their lives and actions
exposed to the test of public opinion ; and the authenticity of which
cannot be doubted by the most fastidious. At the same time, they
afford matter of much curious investigation to the philosophical in-
quirer, for if astrology continue to gain ground amongst the fashion-
* See the Fourth Circle of this work. '«
t It is an authenticated fact, that no one can be at all considered a skilful as-
trologer, or worthy of implicit confidence, who has not had a liberal education j
or, at least, he should be well versed in mathematical principles and the philoso-
phy of nature. The calculation of a nativity is most intimately connected with
geometrical science and algebraical analysis —it requires the aid of numbers, loga-
rith?ns, and trigonometry, brought into use by a clear sound judgment and exten-
sive experience. Professors of this description are rarely met with.
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES. 459
able, in proportion to what it has done, since the publication of the
first edition of this work, it will soon become not only highly popu-
lar, but will form a most conspicuous feature in the system of learn-
ing, as taught at the universities—where this work has been most
extensively patronized.
The science of phrenology has become almost universally be-
lieved ; but what are the doctrines of phrenology, when compared to
those of astrology? For not only can the astrologer discern the mo-
ral and intellectual faculties and propensities to a far greater nicety
than the phrenologist, but he can foresee each particular event of
life, and can discover the exact period when these propensities,
either good or evil, will be called into action. He can most assuredly
read "Heaven's Golden Alphabet;" and in the bright configurations
of fortunate stars, or the lowering shades of hostile irradiations, he
foresees, with an unerring eye, the different prospects, as they indi-
vidually appear in the vista of futurity; thus possessing a knowledge
which, of all others, approaches the nearest to divinity, even as the
science itself is, of all others, the most sublime and beautiful. Even
astronomy, without the sister science of siderial influence, is but a
" casket without a jewel," and presents but a mighty combination
of numbers and nothingness. Who, then, shall dare to revile the
astrologer ? who shall dare to gainsay the superiority he possesses
over the professors of all other science ? He alone, of all other
students, can, with propriety, adopt the words of Milton :
—
" Into the heav'n of heav'ns I have presumed,
An earthly guest, and drawn empyreal air.'*
The fates have decreed his destiny ; the horoscope of his fortunes;
is fixed, and unalterable as the laws of the universe (subject only to
divine control) ; and, while absorbed in contemplation of those ce-
lestial orbs, whether fixed or erratic, benign or malevolent, he
alone can be resigned in all things to that which he has foreseen,
and is the only true philosopher that, like the eagle, can soar in the
meridian brightness of the sun of science, leaving all others, at an im-
measurable and almost infinite distance, to grope their way amidst
paths of theoretic darkness, or the glimmering of erudite scep-
ticism.
460 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
To the clemency, and perhaps lustre of the stars, the whole vege-
tahle kingdom may owe, for aught we know, much of its growth and
richness ; and our waters would instantly become stagnant and pu-
trid, but for the moon, who presides as mistress of the great deep,
ruling the ebbing and flowing of the tides, as well as cheering our
darkest nights by her silver beams.
Who is not susceptible of the heat of the sun, and perceives not
the firmanent so bespangled with shining orbs, in beauteous con-
cert and variety ? These immense globes consist of matter alto-
gether above our comprehension. And who can tell but all the
worlds in our system may habitually elicit such powers in their evo-
lutions as affect, impress, and regulate our atmosphere in a thousand
different ways ? There is not a fact more plain than planetary in-
fluence overthe animal frame ; for, doubtless, the human constitution
is as sensible of super- mundane agency as any other body of equal
magnitude on the surface of our globe ; and as ours is only the part
of a system, it cannot but share in the laws of the whole. To prove
this grand link between celestial and terrestial objects, and to esta-
blish its theory, is the aim of astrology, and v/hich invariably leads
its votary to " look through nature up to nature's God," and to
solve the grand mysteries of the universe.
Such are the advantages of this celestial science ; and lest some
may accuse me of anonymovsly defending what 1 would otherwise
publicly refuse to own, I have subjoined my real name and address,
where those who thirst for this heavenly knowledge, and are desirous
of drinking from the " Wells of Science," will meet with any in-
formation they may solicit, as it respects astrology and the doc-
trine of the stars.
R. C. SMITH,
No. 5, Castle Street East, (Raphael)- -
Oxford Street, near Berner Street.
461
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXIV.
CIRCLE THE SEVENTH.
& Sanopste of CSeommug;
OR,
THE SCIENCE OF CASTING CELESTIAL LOTS,
As practised in former Times by the Chaldean, Arabian, and Rosycritcian
Philosophers.
"And as touching the first, it is written in the beginning of the epistle made
to Pope Clement, from the beginning all others using, Abraham being an Astro-
logian, by the resone and ordre of the stars, he knew the maker of all, the which
by his providence, ruleth and can temper all things —And an angel being as-
sistant unto him, plainly taught him that which by nature he desired to lerne
;
and the very prophet that oonly knoweth the hert and purposes of men, seeing
him so desirous to know the causes and y
e
effect of kinde, he appered to him,
and gave him his desire.
462 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
" Soothcly, Geomancy is a science out of Astrology , teaching to judge by figures
of lynes of points, or whether in earth or by earth, casually is made projection.
And the projection of points is formed of an hand, ruled by a reasonable soul,
moved in y
c
hour of y
e
question, of the form of the thing a coming, the which is
had in the mynde of the projector, the succession of which is open, by the signi-
fication of the figures ye which he intendeth to exploit. And as the erthe is the
modre of all generable and corruptible things, of the heavenly bodies there abideth
some impression, and so ancient doctors, making projection of points, found the
figures set in the heaven, by the ordre of fixt stars, as shall be plainly shewed."
—Ancient Manuscript.
" Roderick. Verily I think thou wert born under Rubeus, and moreover thou
hast a scar in thy face.
" Walter.—If I am, as thou sayest, under that self-willed sign, I shall not fail
to make thee as vile, for though art under Career, the six-dotted figure of pri-
sonment q. e. d. a truce to thy councelling—for thy divining is full unfortunate.
See, soyez assurd, I have the golden acquisitio, in my hand. WhaJ care I for
sand or pointel, or thy doctrine"—-Old Play;
This curious science termed Geomancy is of high antiquity, and
was in great repute amongst the ancient Chaldeans, Babylonians,
Hebrews, Arabians, and other orientalists. It was a favorite study
amongst the Druids, and constitutes a singular feature at the pre-
sent day in freemasonry, it being the chief study of the Rosie
Crucians, and was much practised by that singular race of beings
whose secrets are now in the care of that society. In the Holy
Scriptures we have frequent mention made of " casting lots" which
was, no doubt, a species of geomantic divination, and was allowed
as a final decision amongst the early Christians. In remote ages,
the answers given by the seers as recorded in holy writ, was no
doubt given by this species of curious knowledge. And in later
years, we have had many professors thereof, although not since the
seventeenth century : yet few have given the subject the conside-
ration it merited ; for there is little doubt but it might in proper
hands be brought to such perfection, as to become almost an universal
knowledge ; and as it does not require so much attention to arithme-
tical data, as astrology, it becomes far more facile and pleasing, on
that account, The best writers on the subject* are Cattan, who
* The members of the Mercurii have in their possession a rare old illumi-
nated folio manuscript of the fourteenth century, (part of which may be still more
ancient) which treats of geomancy in a stile the most extraordinary, and gives a
complete analysis and system thereof. This inestimable relic of antiquity, is in-
A SYNOPSIS OF GEOMANCY. 463
wrote in the sixteenth century, and after him Ikydon and Case, al-
though each of these works are very scarce and difficult to be ob-
tained, and which are only useful as books of reference, although
neither of them are competent to teach the art correctly. We will
trespass no farther by way of preface, but proceed to give a synopsis
of the science, as collated from thm best sources of information,
which we could procure.
CIRCLE VII.—SECT. I.
A Table of the Sixteen Geomantic Figures**
Acquisitio. Fortuna Major,
•
•
Letitia. Via.
Amissio. t
Fortuna Minor.
• •
Tristitia.
• •
Caput.
• •
•
Populus.
• •
Puella, Career.
• •
• •
Cauda.
•
• •
Rubeus.
•
• •
Puer.
•
Conjunctio.
• •
•
• •
Albus.
• •
•
• •
valuable, and has been traced to the successive possessions of Chaucer, the an-
cient poet (and father of English verse), the unfortunate Earl of Essex, in Queen
Elizabeth's time, Percy the gallant Earl of Northumberland, and other ancient
worthies. It is in excellent preservation, in the English language, and affords a
singular proof of the indefatigable attention bestowed on the sciences by our
forefathers. Extracts therefrom will be given in the following pages.
* An interesting pamphlet on Geomancy, called the Philosophical Merlin, was
published by i(
Raphael," in 1822, and is worth attention ; it may be had of
464 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURV.
These figures, in number sixteen, are attributed to the four ele-
ments* which the ancients asserted were the basis of all sublunary-
things:
—
Figures of the Fire. Figures of the Air Figures of theEar^. Figures of the Water.
;
The Fiery this, and the Terene compose/
This with the watery and the airy glows,
Hence the prevailing humours, hence we scan
The never failing character of man."—Mentor Stellarum.
CIRCLE VII.—SECT. II.
The method of Casting the Celestial Lots.*
" And they gave forth their lots, and the lot fell upon Matthias, and he was
numbered with the eleven apostles."
—
Acts 2, 26.
According to the system of the ancients, as the manuscript
which we have consulted exemplifies, the diviner, or seer, who
wishes to predict by these lots, should procure a quantity of clean
earth or clean sand, either of which should be mixed with water,
for seven days, in equal portions ; which should be done either under
the arising of the fortunate constellations, or in the hours of the
seven planets; and when this is done, the earth so formed into por-
tions should be mixed together, in a fortunate day and hour,
whereby they affirm that " the universal effect may be more plainly
and easily known and declared." Others made their figure in
wax tables, but they all declare that the projection on earth, is the
DENLEY,the astrological bookseller, Catherine Street, Strand, or of " Raphael,"
whose address has been given at page 460 ; as also " Urania, or the Astro-
loger's Chronicle," a valuable little work which contains much curious and ori-
ginal matter : particularly tables of the measure of time, in directions, &c. &c.
* In the new edition of the Arabian Nights, edited by Dr. Scott, mention is
made ofgeomancy—vide the tale of Aladdin.
A SYNOPSIS OF CiEOMANCY. 465
surest and most conducive to the discovery of truth ; and that the
figure should not be made or cast at any time, but that divination
should only be made " when the weather is bright and clear, and nei-
ther dark nor windy, for distemperance in the elements, may cause
changes in the passions of the soul." They also affirm, that when
a figure is made, or judged, " the moon should be free from all im-
pediment, for if the moon apply to Saturn or Mars, the soul thereby
is inclined to lie, and also, that the figure should be made with the
most sincere desire to ascertain the truth thereof.
THE MODERN METHOD.
The modern method of casting these celestial lots, is by making
the points either upon paper or a slate, with any convenient instru-
ment, either pen, crayon, chalk, pencil, or pointer, whichever may
be the nearest at hand ; and the modern Geomancers affirm that
great verity may be found in the art, when thus practised, although
they allow that the ancient method is the more exact.*
This being seriously thought of, and the mode thereof selected,
the diviner must proceed to make sixteen lines of points, which
points must be made from right to left, contrary to the usual mode
of writing ; and in so doing he must not count the number of points
he makes, but leave that entirely to chance, or to the sympathetic
impulse which will guide the hand, so as to produce a figure corres-
ponding to the true answer of the event sought after.
The following example will suffice to set this doctrine in an easy
light:—
EXAMPLE OF FORMING THE POINTS.
*
* The members of the Mercurii have found the most astonishing; truth in
figures of geomancy, and at their meetings they have not failed to put the sci-
ence frequently to the test, when the utmost satisfaction has been the result.
2h
466 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CHXTURY.
* *
*
\ | ; #
*
t # t # < # t \ , # # # a
*
^ i
• '
# # # § [ #
'
p % <
*
*
# m m
._. # t
•
t f t %—_ #
**
i t # < p 4
*
t # , t # # % m g § t ( #
*
^ ^ m #
.
f t # t t # g g g t # t
*
The points being made as above directed, let them be joined to-
gether two and two, leaving the last points unjoined, as in the ex-
ample, where the first line being even, two points are left ; the
second line being odd, one point is left ; and so of the rest.
This being done, arrange the four figures thus found, in order,
from right to left, calling the first No. 1, the second No. 2, and so
of the others, thus :—
4 3 2 1
o
O o
o o o o o '
o o o o
Then proceed to take the points of each figure, as they stand in a
line, and form thereof another figure ; thus in the first line of the
figure, No. 1, are 2 points ; in No. 2, 2 points ; in No. 3, 1 point
;
and in No. 4, 2 points; which, collected together, form this
symbol :
—
o o
o o
o
o o
Do the same with the lines of the other three figures, which will
give the second row of figures, thus—
8 7 6 5
o o o o o o
O o o
o o o o o
o o o o o
Which are termed No. 5, G, 7, and 8.
A SYNOPSIS OF GEOMANCY. 467
These being found, place the whole eight in a line thus :
—
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
o o o o o o o o o o o
o o o o o o o o
o o O o o o o o
o o o
And then join each figure to its companion ; that is to say—take
the number of points in the first and second, third and fourth, and
so of the rest, calling two or four points even, and one or three points
odd, by which means you find out four other figures, which are
placed thus ;
—
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
o o o o O
o o o o O o o
o o o o o o o o o o
o
12
o
o o
o o
o
11
o o
o
o
10
o
o
a o
o o
o o
9
o
o
And which correspond to Nos. 9, 10, 11, and 12.
This being done, you have the whole of the figures, which oc-
cupy the twelve geomantic houses,* and which constitute the chief
part of the scheme. But there yet remain four other accidental
figures, namely, the two witnesses, the judge, and the sixteenthfigure.
The witnesses are formed from the 9th and 10th, and the two ad-
joining figures in the second row, and are these :
—
o o
o o
o
o
o
o o
o
o o
And the judge is formed from out of these two, in like manner,
and is
—
o
o o
o o
o
* According- to the Persians, the planets in their own houses, are in their
towers, or citadels of strength.
2H 2
468 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
The formation of the sixteenth figure, has been hitherto unknown,
but it is of the utmost consequence in the formation of the judg-
ment, especially where the answer seems ambiguous, and we will
therefore give the secret of finding it, which is done by joining to-
gether the 1st and 15th figures (the judge), and out of these ex-
tracting the figure in question. The sixteenth figure is :
—
o
o
o o
o o
We will now place the figure in its proper order, as it will give a
clear idea of the process.—
8th house. 7th house. 6th house. 5th house. 4th house. 3rd house. 2nd house. 1st house.
o oo o 00 oo O 00 oo
o o oo 00 00 00 o
o o oo o o o o oo
oo oooo o o o
12th house. 1 lth house. 10th house. 9th house.
O O
O O O O
O O O o
O O O o o
Left witness. Right witness.
o o o
o O
o o
o
Judge.
o
o o
o o
o
Sixteenth Figure.—The final result.
O
o
o o
o o
" This sixteenth figure signifieth the cause of the question, and confirmation
of the judgment made by the 1 5th, and thereby we may know what shall fall of
y* thing asked after the accomplishing of y
e judgment of y
e question.**
Chaucer's mss.
469
CIRCLE VII.—SECT. III.
THE MANNER OF DIVINING BY A FIGURE OF
GEOMANCY.
In order to be perfect in the use of Geomancy, it is absolutely
necessary that the student should be well acquainted with the science
of astrology, as illustrated in the fourth circle of this work, and to
which we refer the reader for information, as it regards the houses
and quality of the seven planets ; which are made use of in Geomancy,
in the same manner, except as far as the symbolical nature of the
figures themselves are concerned;
THE NATURE OF THE SIXTEEN FIGURES OF GEOMANCY.
O O
O
O O
O
Acquisitio—Is the best of the whole sixteen figures, and is a sign
of riches, joy, gain, acquisition, profit, and a good end of all enter-
prizes ; it is the symbol of good fortune, of honour, renown, and
happiness ; it denotes long life, fortunate marriages, and success in
every undertaking. It is a figure of Jupiter, and under the sign
Aries, it is exalted in the first house, and has its fall in the seventh,
which is to be judged the same as in astrology.
o
o o
o
o o
Amissio—Is an evil figure, being the symbol of loss, and small
profit ; it also is found to be generally evil in most undertakings,
and is an issuing figure. It is under Venus, and the sign Scorpio,
its exaltation is in the 8th, and its fall in the 2nd house.
470 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
O O
O O
O
O
Fortwna Major—Is the symbol of wealth and rank, of power, ho-
nour, and dignity, and of an exceeding great name. It is singularly
good in all matters of gain, and to be preferred to none but acqui-
sitio. It is ruled by the sun, and is under the sign Aquarius ; its
exaltation is in the 11th house, and its fall in the 5th.
o
o
o o
o o
Fortuna Minor—Is the lesser fortune, it betokens disappointments
and but small gain, being an issuing and wasteful figure ;
yet is good
for dignities, although evil in matters of profit. It is ruled by the
sun, and is partially under Taurus ; its exaltation is in the first house,
and its fall in the 7th, or western angle.
o
o o
o o
o o
Letitia—Is the figure emblematical of joy, gladness, fullness oi
pleasure, and gay delights ; endearments, profit, gain, and all fa-
vourable things, which it signifies similar to acquisitio. It is a very
fortunate symbol wherever found, and productive of success.
It is under Jupiter, and the sign Taurus ; it is exalted in the se-
cond house, and its fall is in the 8th opposite.
o o
o o
o o
o
Tristitia—Is the origin or source of sorrow, melancholy, heaviness
of heart, lowncss of spirits, dolor, grief, malice, and mischief,
and is extremely unfortunate in all the affairs she may signify. She
is also the cause of loss, disgrace, and trouble. It is under the evil
planet Saturn, and the sign Scorpio, it has its exaltation in the 8th,
and its fall in the 2nd house.
A SYNOPSIS OF GEOMANCV, 471
6 O
O
O O
o o
Rubeus—Is another no less vicious and wretched figure, it is the
source of war and bloodshed, signifying guile, deceit, and perversion
of truth ; and intestine quarrels, animosities, and discord. It is
highly unfortunate in every undertaking ; when it is found in the
ascendant, geomancers frequently destroy the figure. It is under
Mars, in the sign Gemini; it is exalted in the 3rd house, and has
its fall in the 9th,
o o
o o
o
o o
Albus—Is a figure termed meanly good, and oftentimes conduces to
gain ; especially in affairs of science and learning. It is under
Marcury, and the sign Cancer. It is exalted in the 6th house, and
its fall in the 12th house, which is opposite thereto.
o o
o
o
o o
Covjunctio—Is a figure of gathering or conjoining; it is a contro-
vertible figure, good with good, and evil with evil ; it is a symbol of
a funeral, "for it representeth the bier on which dead men are
borne." The points being 2 before, 2 behind, and 2 in the centre ;*
it is under Mercury, retrograde in Virgo. It is a bicorporeal figure,
exalted in the 6th house, and has its fall in the 12 house.
o
o o
o o
o
Career—Is the emblem of a prison, imprisonment, close shut-up
places, close vessels, and is amazingly evil, as its name imports.
It gives loss in all things, poverty and wretchedness, it is also un-
lucky in every undertaking; it is under Saturn, and the sign Pisces
;
it is exalted in the 12th house, and has its fall in the 6th house,
or house of evil fortune.
* Ancient manuscript,
472 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
o o
o o
o o
o o
Populus—Is the symbol of a multitude, a congregation, an assembly,
a confused retinue. It is generally accounted evil and unpropitious;
and generally signifies moving or journeys.
It is under the full moon, in the sign Capricorn, and is exalted in
the 2nd house, having the fall in the 8th.
o
o
o
o
Via—Is the figure of quickness and facility ; of travelling, removals,
journeys, and voyages. It is a wasting and dissipating figure, and
unlucky in all matters of gain or profit. It denotes hasty news and
short visits, when found in the scheme.
It is under the new moon in Leo, and is exalted in the 5th house,
having its fall in the 11th.
oo
o
o
o
Caput—Is the symbol of the dragon's head, and is generally ac-
counted as fortunate and propitious in the undertakings. It is good
for matters of gain, and in money-affairs is well. It signifies some-
thing quickly coming on, being an entering figure.
It is the Dragon's Head in Virgo, and is a commixture of Jupiter
and Venus conjoined,
o
o >
o
00
Cauda—Is the symbol of evil and misfortune, disgrace, scandal,
slander, poverty, and ruin. It wastes the substance, annoys the
asker, and hinders the undertaking. It is always and at all times
evil.
This is the Dragon's Tail in Sagittarius3 formed out of a mixture
of Saturn and Mars.
A SYNOPSIS OF GEOMANCY. 473
O
O O
o
o
Puclla—Is a pleasant and favourable symbol ; it signifies fulfilment
of wishes, joy and contentment, success in love, and many equally
propitious events ; it is favourable also in money affairs ; it is the
sacred emblem of the cross; and is ever found to be a sign of
equality, justice, and devotion. It is under the planet Venus and the
sign Libra, It is exalted in the seventh house, and has its fall in
the ascendant.
o
o
o o
o
Puer—Is the emblem of a drawn sword, and of war, battle, hos-
tility, quarrels, contentions, and civil discords. It conduces but
poorly to gain or profit, being naturally evil and malignant; con-
sequently no success can attend the question, where it is a signifi-
cator. It is under Mars, and the warlike sign Aries, the ascendant of
England. It is exalted in the first house, and has its fall in the
angle opposite.
In order to judge from the figures,* as before observed, the student
must learn to be well acquainted with the essential and accidental
dignities, stations, aspects, and positions of the geomantic emblems,
and be ready in his reference to the twelve celestial houses, by which
means, if he be sincere in his wishes, the most astonishing answers
may be obtained.
Jf " ft
* " The editor scarcely need make any remark to impress upon the minds of
his readers the nec^reity ofAeing serious in their trials, and with a full desire to
attain a correct answer, as they will find from experience, that the hidden myste-
ries of nature are only to be obtained by an earnest and serious desire to come at
the truth 5 but if trifiers try them, they try only to be trifled with.*'
Vide Philosophical Merlin.
474
CIRCLE VIL—SECT. IV.
EXAMPLES IN GEOMANCY.
In order to perfect the reader in this amusing knowledge, we shall
subjoin a few interesting examples.
EXAMPLE I.
A Figure, or Geomantic Scheme, set for the Spitalfields Silh-Weavers.
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
00 00 O 00 00 O O
O 00 OO O 00 00 OO oo
00 OO 00 OO 00 OO o
OO 00 00 00 00 O O 00
12 11 10 9
O O 00 00
O O 00 00
O OO 00 o
oo OO o o
oo oo
oo oo
o o
oo oo
oo
oo
00
oo
o
00
^ 00
This figure of gcomancy was cast for the purpose of ascertaining
the result of the bill then pending in Parliament, respecting the
Spitalfields siik-weavers, viz. whether they or their opponents would
obtain the victory, at the time they were petitioning against the bill.
By examination of the scheme, it will be found that Amissio and
Venus rule the first house, or ascendant of the silk-weavers, and
admirably represent this business in hand, while Tristitia, a figure
of Saturn in the 10th house, is symbolical of a decline and falling-
A SYNOPSIS OF GEOMANCY. 475
off in this trade ; and Career in the house of wealth and gain, a most
evil figure, likewise governed by Saturn in his most malevolent debi-
lities, sufficiently indicates great loss both to the workmen and their
masters. Part of this evil has already taken place, but much more,
unfortunately, remains to come.
As we were required by several scientific gentlemen to give our
opinion whether the bill, then pending, would be passed, or thrown
out altogether ; we gave it as our decided opinion, that the oppo-
nents of this industrious and numerous class of manufacturers would
be the likeliest to gain the victory ; but, as the two witnesses are
ruled by Mercuryf and Populus the judge, controvertible in nature,
while the 16th figure moves in the ascendant, we expected that the
bill would receive a partial alteration favourable to the petitioners
against it.
It is scarcely necessary to hint, how truly every part of the above
prediction has been verified, to the credit and advancement of the
science.*
There are several other topics relative to the above class of per-
sons, which may be gathered from the figure,—as, for instance,
Fortuna Major in the 9th house, showing success in this manufac-
ture to foreigners. Cauda Draconis in the 12th house, denoting
coolness in the petitioners' friends, and many secret enemies ; and
Populus, in the 4th house, denoting the depreciation of the article
in question ; while the fixed nature of several significators are likely
to cause the whole of these evils to be of long duration, and upon
the increase. Conjwictio in the 8th house is also typical of short life
to the principal agitators of the bill and its supporters, which jag^t
to be fulfilled, although not many seasons will elapse before thr^will
be verified
!
H. W.
* " Neither do they terminate. But evil succeeds to evil, and many moons
shall pass by ere the train which is now fixed shall have spent its forces."
Urania, or the Astrologer's Chronicle, p. 61.
476 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
EXAMPLE II.
Figure cast for the Year in which the late Queen Caroline died, and
which most remarkably "prefigured her Dissolution.
o 00 o 00 00
o 00 o o 00 D
oo o 00 00
o
o
oo
o
00
o
o
o
oo
o
o
00
o
o
o
oo o
oo
oo
oo
00
oo
o
o
o
o
00
o
o
oo
o
00
o
00
" Ambrose Merlin, the Welsh prophet, declares that the chariot of the moon
shall disturb the zodiac, and the Pleiades shall break forth into lamentations.
Which Lilly interprets to mean great commotions amongst the common people
and contempt of their superiors."
—
Vide Lilhfs Tracts.
This figure of geomancy was erected in the month of May, 1821,
for the purpose of foreknowing what the fate of that year would be
to Queen Caroline, as the affairs of that unfortunate princess were
then the general topic of public conversation.
In the first house is found the figure Puer, a masculine and martial
figure, and well expressing the determination and intrepidity of this
illustrious lady, which seemed to have carried her at times beyond
her sex.
Irrthe second house, Puella, a figure of Venus, is favourable for
pecuniary resources, and Caput Draconis, or the Dragon's Head, in
the 4th house, symbolically predicts a name and reputation, which
should survive the lapse of ages in the page of history. The mascu-
line figure Fortuna Minor, in the 5th house, or house of pleasure
and enjoyment, signifies that which the attentive student is aware we
must not fully express.
But the most remarkable position is the movement of the first
fi gure (which signified the queen personally) into the house of death !
A SYNOPSIS OP GKOMANCY. 477
And this figure being noted by Mars, not only showed, beforehand,
that she would die that year, but that the death should be in a man-
ner sudden and unexpected.
Tristitia, a figure of Saturn (the evil fortune), in the house of
honour, and the figure in the house of enemies, significator of the
husband also, ruling the house of friends, clearly showed the heavy
disappointment and fatality which followed the whole of the actions
of this royal native, from the time of setting this figure to that of her
death—all which happened precisely as we predicted.
Alfred.
EXAMPLE III.
Figure of the Worldfor the Year of the Coronation; cast March 16,
1821.
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
O O 00 00 00 00 O 00
OO O O O O O O 00
00 o o oo o o o o
oo O O 00 00 oo oo o
12 11 10 9
00 oo oo o
o oo oo o
o o oo oo
o o oo o
14 13
00 o
o o
oo oo
oo o
15
o
00
00
o
This figure is a striking example that, by geomancy, we may not
only judge the fate of private individuals, but also of kingdoms,
states and empires ; for tfortuna 0$ajor in the ascendant and eleventh
house, and JPopuIufl in the mid-heaven, plainly showed the august
ceremonies for which the year 1821 was distinguished, /fortuna
fl^ajor. being the significator of honour, power, and greatness ; and
©opuliw the significator of immense congregations and multitudes
of people, both of which were typical of these events ; neither were
the evils that followed less plainly shown by IRubeuie, the evil witness,
478 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
and ^Farcer, the malevolent judge, and final significator of the whole
figure.
" Thus do the planets bear the sovereign rule
Away from mortals, who, short-sighted as
The mole or bat, who only see in darkness,
Despise the science of our heav'nly lore.
But we revere the stars."
—
Ancient Rhyme.
EXAMPLE IV.
Figure for the End of the Tear 1824.
8 7 c 5 4 3 2 1
oo o o oo o 00 o 00
o 00 o o o o o
oo o o oo o oo o
oo
12
o o
11
o oo
10
00 o
9
oo
o o o
o oo oo oo
o o 00 o
o
14
oo
o
00
o
oo oo
13
oo
00
o
o
o
15
oo
o
o
oo
<Sonjunctio ascending, denotes the time will be busy, active, and
remarkable. Much news and rumours, both true and false ; and
the evil positions of Cauda in the 4th house, and Eubeufl in the
house of death, are symbolical of heavy calamities, sudden deaths,
murders, suicides, robberies, duels, quarrels, and many fatalities.
These figures foreshow the ruin of many an upstart, and will pull
down the pride of many pretenders. A clergyman, a religious vo-
tary, seems ensnared in the wiles of a fair devotee, devoted to love
as well as holiness; whispers are abroad concerning it, but Plutus
opens his coffers, and all for a time goes on well. The heartless
8mi00io, in the 11th house, will deceive many in their fondest ex-
pectations. But yet there are some who, born under more genial
influence, will be amazingly prosperous.
" Full many a coward frowns in impotence,
Full many a needless boast is utter'd '-, but
The planets show the mischief-
1 '
—
Angelus.
A SYNOPSIS OF CEOMAMCV. 479
EXAMPLE V.
The Gcomardic Destiny of Charles X, King of France.
O o oo 00 00 oo o 00
O o o o oo oo
O 00 oo oo oo oo o
00
oo
oo
o
oo
oo
oo
00
o
o
o
00
00
oo
o
00 oo
oo
o
oo
o
o
o
oo
oo
o
o o
o
o
oo
oo
o
00
o
00
"Bold Arthur drew his line from hence,
And Jove, in his best mood, bequeaUYd
His lineal succession ; —hence the star
Of knighthood reigns.
But yet this figure warns thee to beware
;
For whoso Career threatens seldom yet
Has conquer'd death and liv'd to hoary age.
The points of this said scheme, even as
The sand in which they're made, are fleeting."
Ancient Legend.
Gcomancy may well be termed extraordinary knowledge, for by
its practice we may discover the principal event of every undertaking,
without inquiring as to time or place, so necessary in astrology ; and
thus does geomancy afford a fund of rational amusement, not to be
exceeded by any other science, when rightly practised : but that
there are few who understand its practice is certain.
Now, here we have Fortuna Major ascending, which leads us to
suppose the illustrious native is under the sign Aquarius, and under
the solar reign. Rubeus, in the 4th and 5th, argue no issue, and
the 7th, going to the 9th, confounds marriage through priestcraft,
while the lord of the ascendant, ruling this figure in the 9ih house,
shows his infatuation as it relates to religious ceremonials. But
Cauda in the 8th and house of death, with Rubeus in the 4th, or
north angL, are no very flattering testimonies; they evidently im-
490 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
port danger byfalls, bruises, or animals; and one of the family will
suffer by fire. Yet it is probable the native may live to acquire
honour enough, for Acquisitio in the 10th is a good figure. But
what sort of a name will Rubeus, in the 4th, give after death ? This
should be looked to by his panegyrists. I have sent this horoscope
to the famous astrologer, M. le Normand, of Paris, in order that she
might give the illustrious native notice of what will befal him—if
his courtiers will permit the friendly warning of danger.
Looking at the figure impartially, it seems to denote much cele-
brity, esteem, and notoriety, were this all—but there is a scourge
prepared for the Gallic nation in no very distant quarter, and ano-
ther more distant—but of which we shall forbear to speak ;
yet the
reign of this monarch shall not go by without wars and rumours of
wars, and the north shall give cause of terror.
August, 1825. Alfred.
EXAMPLE VI.
A Figure for the Lion Fight at Warwick, cast on the Morning of the
Combat.
(Communicated by a Correspondent).
00 o 00 oo o o oo
o 00 o o 00
00 00 00 00 00 o oo 00
00 o o o
o o o o
oo 00 o o
oo
o
oo
oo
oo
00 o
00
oo
oo
o
oo
o
oo
oo
o
oo
oo
oo
o
Letitia, which answers to Jupiter in Taurus, being in the ascend-
ant plainly denoted the generosity and magnanimity of that noble
A SYNOPSIS OF GEOMANCY. 481
animal, it being the house of life of the lion, and Rubeus in the 12th
denoted the ferocity of his opponents. But the Judge being evil,
and amissive, denoted that the lion stood no chance of gaining the
combat, as it proved.
V.
EXAMPLE VII.
(Communicated by a Correspondent *).
FIGURE FOR THE AUTUMNAL QUARTER, 1825.
** Here Career wages war with Populus,
And tyranny does lord it. Hence, begone ;
For dead men tell not tales. And much 1 fear,
That malice, lynx-eyed, silent, waits her prey;
Sir Geoffrey." " Ha ! say'st so ; by my loyalty,
This arm shall wield the lance, the falchion
Temper'd so keenly ; and my own stout heart,
Better than sevenfold shield, shall spurn submission.
Sage, I thank thee."
—
Old Play.
o o 00 00 OO OO OO
OO o OO OO 00 O OO o
n o o OO OO o o o
OO
o
OO
o
00
o
1)
OO
o
OO
o
OO
00 o
OO
o
o
OO
o
OO
OO
o
o
OO
OO
O
OO
O
o
o
o
OO
Caput in the first, and Cauda in the eighth house, are evil and
good together remarkably blended; but Tristitia in the 4th
house, and the first figure opposed by the 7th, and in square to
figures of Saturn and Mercury, denotes immense losses by
fire, theft, piracy, and convulsions of nature, most of which will
take place here in England, and the metropolis will not be free from
its share thereof; but in our eastern possessions, rapine and hosti-
* See also " Urania, or the Astrologer's Chronicle," page 59 $ where many
curious predictions are made from geomancy,
2l
482 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
lity are more than generally predominant : commerce, however,
will flourish. But a great one dies ; and ere the holy festival is com-
menced to commemorate the birth of Christians' hope, Rome or
Italy shall have suffered a shock which may be long felt in that and
other parts of the continent.
Mercurius.
CIRCLE VII.—SECT. V.
EXAMPLES FROM CHAUCER'S ILLUMINATED
MANUSCRIPT.
EXAMPLE VIII.
oo 00 oo oo oo 00 o
o 00 oo oo o oo 00
o oo 00 o oo o oo
oo
oo
oo
o
o
o
o
oo
oo
o
oo
o
oo
o
oo
00 00
oo
o
o
o
o
o
00
oo
o
oo
o
o
oo
oo
o
oo
o
u Our extracts, it will be seen, consist rather of facts than arguments, though
they are pretty conclusive as to the latter."
—
Literary Chronicle.
" One, being in the age of judgment, doubted whether he shall
have any substance or possession of his father, that was a rich man
;
and he made his question to a geomancian, and asked whether he
should have abundance of goods, and what goods they shall be, and
by what means he should gete them, and what tyme. And such pro-
jection as above happened.
Now, I beheld the 2nd house, and found therein Fortuna Major,
that is a laudable figure, acquisitive and entrant, that signifieth him
A SYNOPSIS OF GEOMANCY. 483
to have good; and because he was joined* to good and laudable
figures, that affirmeth it the more stedfast. But for the 2nd, is
light in point, it seemeth that goods shall come to him lightly ; and
in the beginning of that time that he made y
e question in, and as
the 15th was good, it signifieth finally lucre, substance, and pos-
session, to the asker, and as the 15th is found in the 3rd and 7th
houses, received, but not located (for he was in his fall, where he
sorrovveth). Natheless, as me seemeth, he is joined with good, it
signifieth y* in the end of his lyfe, and in the beginning of y
e
age
y* he is in, he shall wynne by the meens of his brethren, wyfe, and
felowes. And because Acquisitio, that is figured in Aries, is not
located in the 7th, for it is there opposed to y
e house of his formation
;
that signifieth that the asker hath no great hope to gete his goods,
by the aforesaid meens, but because the figure is laudable and good,
and a figure of Jupiter, signifying science and wisdome, it signifieth
the asker, by his prudence, to come to riches. Therefore, the asker
is well disposed to have grete riches, as the question supposeth he
shall have pounds, and Fortuna Major representeth 8 in number,
and, therefore, he shall have £8000 in money, or near that amount."
Chaucer's mss.
* The conjunction is of great force in all questions of geomancy. For, as in
astrology, the light planets partake of the nature of those with whom they are
joined. So in this science, the figures are supposed thereby to change either to
Sfood or evil.
2l2
484
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXV
Harlech Castle.
" The castle is seated upon a lofty rock, facing that part of Caernarvonshire
called Eifonydd ; on the left is Cardigan Bay, and immediately below a sandy
marsh, extending several miles. This fortress was built by Edward I., about the
year 1280. It was impregnable on the side next to the sea, on the other it was
protected by a prodigious fosse, cut with vast expense and trouble, in the solid
rock."
—
Portfolio.
A SYNOPSIS OF GEOiMANCY. 485
EXAMPLE IX.
If the Castle besieged shall be taken ?
oo 00 00 o o 00 oo o
QO o oo oo 00 oo 00
oo 00 oo o oo o oo
oo
oo
o
o
o
D
o
o
o
o
on
oo
oo
o
do
00
o
o
o
o
oo
o
oo
00
o
00
o
00
00
00
" A lord once ye beseged a castell, desired to wete, yf he shold
wynne or no, or destroye it, or in what vvyse, &c. And projection
was such as aboue. Letitia, that is signifier of the asker, is a sign
of Saipence and of engyne (ingenuity), y* sheweth him with great
skille and prudence to labor for the getyng of yt place and not to
profit, for by cause Letitia is not receyved, and for Letitia is agene
located in the house of fortune, yt
sheweth him to labor the askyng
of it for help of his frendes,and to have ayde from them, they think-
ing to have division thereof, and for all
y
1
he shall not avayle, nor
profit, because of the prohibition of Career, and her constitution.
And as Career is a sign of solicitude, yt
sheweth that the asker
shall haste to gete the Castell. And as Career is lord of the fifth,
it is like that his besynes and intentions are in behalfe of a son, or
one to him full leef (dear) ; and for that Tristitia is in the house of
help, and afterwards goeth to the 6th that sheweth them that he
desireth help of, to be slaw, and unlusty, and by happ they be
secke (sick) and for povertye and fayntnesse unable to help him.
And Amissio in the 9th joined with the first, it sheweth him to
spend moche for to assay to gete y
e
Castell. And Acquisitio in the
13th sheweth that he was a myghty man of good. The signifier of
y
m biseged, is entrant, and sheweth them to be stable and trew ;
and Caput Draconis, that is in their conjunction, augmenteth their
486 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
strength, and y
1
sheweth ye bisegers to be feebler than ye biseged,
but because the signifierof y
e
bisegedis in ye part of ye bisegers, un-
fortunate by ill translation, and is coupled to two ills, to Via and
Amissio that are signs of falseness, y
l sheweth the biseged to faynt,
and to make guileful speech to the bisegers ; for to yield the
Castell, y
e which they will not do, for the first is not in the fourth,
neyther in any other places joined, but because Albus y* signifies
the asker's purse, maketh translation into the 8th house, which is y
e
substance of y
e
biseged, it signifieth the bisegers hath sent money to
them biseged for to yield y
e
Castell, but for by cause Albus is re-
ceyved y* signifieth y* they biseged have taken the money, by reason
of which money, from strength and consistency, they are become
weak and mobile (moveable). And as Cauda is in the 4th house,
y* signifyeth the taking and destroying, or breaking up of the
Castell, and the destruction of y
e biseged."
CIRCLE VII.—SECT. VI.
EXAMPLE X.
Predictions relative to the Arctic Expedition, and whether the North
West Passage will be ever discovered.
" Then drew the seer the lines in sand ;
And breathing forth in words of skill,
Quoth he, ' Tbp omens here are vile,
For Reubeus in thy house of life,
And Puer, stimulate to strife.
Beware the blow, beware the brand,
And let not slaughter stain thy hand,
For little good this scheme portends,
And false and guileful are thy friends.
—
Old Play.
" Truths of themselves are to be desired, for science itself is a certain good y
now the expectation of future good very much delights us, and, on the contrary
when future evils sueforeseen, we may either mitigate them, or at least bear then*
more contentedly."—Guido Bonatus.
A SYNOPSIS OFGEOMANCY. 487
CELESTIAL LOTS.
oo o o 00 00 o
oo 00 00 00 00 u 00 o
00 o 00 6 oo o
oo oo
o
00
o
oo
o
oo
o
oo
00
oo
00
00
00
00 00
o
o
oo
00
oo
oo
oo
00
oo
o
i
>0
oo
o
oo
o
oo
oo
o
oo
oo
In compliance with the wishes of several friends to this art, I
have casta figure of celestial lots, in order to ascertain whether there
is any probability that the north-west passage will ever be disco-
vered : and, by referring to the question, it must be first noticed,
that Cauda, or the Tail of the Dragon, is found in the house of life,
the house ofjourneys, and the house of honour ! This imports great
danger to the commander of the expedition, and if the figure speak
truth, Captain Parry will not succeed in his enterprise ; but, it is to
be feared, will be in extreme danger during the ensuing year, if not
returned previous to that period. And the crew of the vessels, re-
presented by the figure Populus, are likewise afflicted.
*******
The prevalence of the figures of Saturn are worthy of notice
;
here they recur four times, and at each time become more malignant.
Hence the chief failures will be owing to the physical causes and
excess of cold, but the figure in the house ofwealth denotes a want or
scarcity of provisions, money, and necessaries.
*******
The prospect is gloomy, and some will inevitably suffer. It may
happen that the commander is not born under fortunate stars; I
have not seen his nativity, but would advise him to avoid the
perils of the ocean, and the dangers of the elements until his 38th
488 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
year is past, for the first part of his life is represented from this
figure to be wild and perilous, but not devoid of hope ; and it may
be that he may contemn the occult sciences.
*******
To proceed ; —the watery and fiery elements predominate, hence
one cause of evil and elementary strife ; while Populus, the multitu-
dinous Populus, combining the influence of the full moon, swift, in
Capricorn; and after having entered the house of death, emerging
from thence almost to the very zenith of the figure, but stopping
short in the house of hopes and wishes, with the gentle Amissio for
judicial umpire, bids us look forward to the faint glimmering of
hope, amidst the chaotic display of dreary benighted obstacles ; and
hence I conclude, that the north-west passage will befinally discovered,
but by land ; the discovery is most likely, although aquatic excursions
constitute partial hopes ofsuccess ; but neither by the present expeditions
nor by the next, nor until England's star shall ascend the horizon, re-
plete ivith beams of superior influence, from the Wth house of her ho-
roscope, shall the discovery be achieved ; but courage and science shall
meet their reward,
August, 1825. Raphael:
" The more I behold the heavens, the greater mischief do I fear; but knowing
God can in a moment reconcile us, I am more sparing in art, yet let none take i*
ill I predict what I do, from positive rules of art itself."
—
Lilly.
EXAMPLE : XII.
A Figure set for an Accident,
o oo 00 00 00 oo oo
oo oo oo o o oo o
o o o oo oo o o oo
oo 00 o 00 00 oo o
o o oo oo
o oo oo o
oo o o o
oo
oo
o
o
c
o o
oo
o
oo
oo
o
oo
oo
o
o
A SYVNOPSIS OF GEOMANCY. 489
This figure was set upon the following occasion:—Mr.L ,
a wealthy corn-factor, residing at Whitechapel, met with a fall from
his chaise, in consequence of the vehicle being overturned through
coming in contact with a waggon. By this accident he suffered
such severe bruizes that his life was despaired of; but being re-
quested to give our opinion on the subject, we plainly saw his re-
covery denoted, for a figure of Jupiter is in the ascendant, and a
figure of Venus in the 8th house, which rendered it impossible that
he could fall a victim thereto. He recovered within a month of the
accident.
EXAMPLE XII.
Afigure for Thurtell the Murderer.
" If the house of life be afflicted, there can be no worse harm, especially if the
evil figures of Saturn be there."
—
Albumazab.
oo o oo 00 oo oo 00 o
oo oo oo 00 00 00 o
o oo oo 00 o 00 00 00
o oo 00 o
o oo oo o
oo oo 00 oo
o
o
OO
00 o
o
o
oo
o
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
o
o
o
00
This figure, as could be proved on oath, if requisite, was cast
nearly a month previous to the untimely end of this malefactor.
—
The combinations are remarkable, for the dragon's tail in the house
of life, and a figure of Saturn, the anareta, in the house of death,
coming from the fourth house with the evil figure Cauda in the 16th,
are each of them particularly typical of that unfortunate end which
we predicted, would certainly take place.
490
CIRCLE THE EIGHTH.
aaaonttevful CMjavms, ^altemang, antt <£urtou*
Secrets m (Bctult IJfiilosoBfiu.
EXTRACTED FROM ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS AND RARE
OLD AUTHORS.
" When the silent stars are shooting,
And the answering owls are hooting,
Shall my soul be upon thine,
With a power, and with a sign ?"
—
Byron.
****** *
" The charm works, and now Arthur hie thee to the green wood, keep to the
left, and anon on the verge of the slopiug pasture, where thejairy-ring envelopes
its mystic space, thou shalt find the deadly nightshade, and the root of vervain ;
haste, I say, or the hour of Saturne will be gone by, and lo the moon has already
risen to light thy path.
" Arthur. —Father, I speed, winged by love, and all anxiety to try thy potent
spell—ye stars be favourable."
—
Old Play.
SECTION I.
THE SINGULAR PROPERTIES OF NATURAL MAGIC,
WITH
A Cursory View of Charms, Talismans, fyc.
In the grand laboratory of nature, there are many singular com-
positions of herbs and minerals, which have a surprising effect in
themselves, without the least assistance from supernatural agency;
for, in the commixture of bodies of a similar nature, there is a two-
fold power and virtue ; first, when the celestial properties are duly
disposed in any natural substance, then under one form divers in-
fluences of superior powers are combined ; and secondly, when from
artificial mixtures and compositions of natural things, combined
amongst themselves in a due and harmonical proportion, they agree
with the quality and force of the heavens, under certain correspond-
ent constellations. This proceeds from the occult affinity of natural
WONDERFUL CHARMS, TALISMANS, &C. 49 I
things amongst themselves, by the force and sympathy of which
many astonishing effects are produced.
*******
In the" writings of Paracelsus, we find many surprising examples of
the power invested in sympathy and antipathy, by means of images,
talismans, and amulets, compounded of nothing more than natural
ingredients ; and he very particularly describes an infallible method
by the image of any bird or beast, to destroy it, or effect its death,
though at a distance. So likewise by the hair, fat, blood, excrements,
or excrescenses of any animal, the diseases of that animal might be
cured, and its life preserved or destroyed.
This is seen in the famous Armary Unguent* and the sympathetical
powder; and there are multiplied instances and histories, both at
home and abroad, of those who have been burnt, hanged, or other-
wise punished, for the use of waxen images, which they composed
in divers postures, under certain constellations, whereby the persons
they are made to represent, have been severely tormented, or ma-
cerated to death ; for, according to the torment or punishment they
intended to inflict upon the object of their resentment, so they dis-
posed the hour of the constellation, the quality of the compound, and
the posture or form of the magical image ; for instance, if they
wished to pine, or consume by slow degrees the health and life of
any person they were offended with, they moulded his image in wax,
of such an ominous form and aspect as conduced to their design,
making several magical characters upon the sides of the head, des-
cribing the characters of the planetary hour upon the breast of the
image, the name of the persecuted person on its forehead, and the
intended effect to be wrought, on its back. If they meant to pro-
duce violent pains and tortures in the flesh or sinews, they pro-
ceeded to stick pins or thorns in various places of the arms, legs, or
breast of the image. If to cast them into violent fevers or consump-
tions, they proceeded in a certain planetary hour, every day to
warm and turn the image before a lingering fire, which fire was
composed of certain exotic gums and magical ingredients of sweet
odours, and roots of certain shrubs efficient to their purpose. And
* The receipt for making this famous compound is given hereafter,
492 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
when the whole image was completed, it is astonishing to human
comprehension, what surprising effects they were capable of pro-
ducing upon the person they intended to represent, and which the
reader can only attain a competent idea of, by reading the accounts
of the trials and confessions of those who suffered the law in the 16th,
17th, and commencement of the 18th centuries, for transactions of
this kind, an incredible number of which are not only recorded in
the notes and memorandums of the judges, but attested by a great
variety of noblemen, gentlemen, clergy, physicians, and others, who
were eye-witnesses of these singular proceedings ; and for which rea-
son we have spared giving the minutia of forming these execrable
images, lest the evil-minded and malicious should attempt thereby
to work some abominable species of revenge upon their unsuspecting
neighbours.
Thousands of other strange and uncouth inventions might be here
described, and as the Europeans have the ability of effecting such
astonishing things by the medium of images, talismans, amulets, and
charms, so the Asiatic nations have a faculty of producing similar
effects by similar rites.
*******
The art of transplantation is also magical, which was formerly
much practised, and is still, as we are credibly informed, made use
of in the more remote and unpolished parts of this island.* The
method is, by giving certain preparations to any domestic animal,
they thereby remove fevers, agues, coughs, consumptions, asthmas,
&c. from any person applying to them for that purpose ; or they can
remove them from one person to another, by burying certain images
in the ground,f or against their houses, with certain ominous in-
scriptions and Hebrew letters ; yet the effects of these are chiefly
derived from the sympathies of nature,J for many persons, without
* It is a singular fact that rape-seed, sown with curses and imprecations,
thrives infinitely better than when sown in the ordinary way.
t If the object be for hate, this is done in the hour of Saturn ; but if for love,
Venus is chosen well dignified.
% It is a tradition amongst the country people, that if a live pigeon be tied to
the breast of a child which has the hooping cough, and afterwards let free, the
child will recover, but tfie bird will die thereof.
WONDERFUL CHAUMS, TALISMANS, &C. 493
knowing the cause, have been able to remove diseases, take off warts,
&c. and to perform many surprising cures at a distance from the pa-
tient, and even without ever seeing him ; so, by a similar property
in the sympathy and antipathy of nature, certain leaves, roots, or
juices being rubbed upon warts or excresences, and buried under the
ground, remove or cure the same, which experiments take effect ac-
cording to their mediums, and their consumption or putrefaction in
the mother earth, of which the human source is principally com-
pounded.
*******
Nor is it to be wondered at, that natural things being fitted to the
times and constellations, compounded of sympathetic ingredients,
should produce strange and apparently supernatural effects.
Since the occult causes are appropriate to the effect, a few of these
we will here mention : andfirst, of the composition of
THE MAGICAL CANDLE.
This candle is spoken of by a learned philosopher of the last cen-
tury.* It is compounded after the following manner : —they take a
good quantity of the venal blood lukewarm, as it came out of the
vein, which, being chemically prepared with alcohol and other in-
gredients, is at last made up into a candle, which, being once kindled,
never is extinguished till the death of the party, whose blood it is com-
posed of ; for, when he is sick or in danger, it burns dimmd troubled ;
and when he is dead, it is quite extinguished.
*******
In the simple operations of nature, many other wonderful things
are wrought, which, upon a superficial view, appear impossible or
supernatural, thus:—it has been discovered that lamps or torches,
composed of certain ingredients, have a wonderful effect upon vision,
such as the composition of
THE MAGIC TORCH,
TO PRODUCE THE APPEARANCE OF SERPENTS.+
« Take the skin of a serpent when first killed, and twist it up lik
catgut ; then take the blood and fat thereof, and mix with some hard
* De Biolychino.
t Taken from a curious manuscript in the possession of the Mercurii.
494 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
tallow to make it a substance ; then take a mould, such as candles
are made in, and fix the skin of the serpent as the wick, and pour in
the fat, &c. as above prepared, which composition will thus form a
candle. But the whole of this experiment must be performed under
the ascension of the sign Scorpio. This candle must be lighted in
the hour of Saturn,* and whenever it is thus lit in a close room,
the place will appear filled with innumerable quantities of serpentsf
in all parts thereof, to the great horror of the spectators, and so per-
fect will be the appearances, that even the operator himself will be
scarcely able to withstand the force of imagination.
THE MAGIC TORCH,
TO PRODUCE THE APPEARANCE OF FLIES.
Take a quantity of flies, and boil them with a sufficient quantity
of wax or tallow, making the same into a torch or candle in manner
as shown above, which experiment must be performed under the as-
cension of Aquaries, and lit in the hour of Saturn. When
lighted, the room where it is, will appear swarming with thousands
of these insects, and the illusion will be so perfect, that, to a spectator,
they will appear the effect of enchantment.
THE MAGICAL OIL OF GRAPES.
Likewise oil compounded of grapes being put into a lamp and
lighted, will make the room appear full of grapes, though, in reality,
it is nothing more than the idea or similitude, and the same thing is
to be done with all the plants and flowers throughout the vegetable
system, by means of a chymical analysis, whereby a simple spirit is
produced, which will represent the herb or flower from which it is
extracted in full bloom.
How far such inventions as are called charms, amulets, and talis-
* Albumazar and the old Arabian astrologers are very explicit upon the force
of planetary hours.
t Probably the greater part of the magical feats, recorded in the Scriptures, are
practised by the Egyptians, were the result of natural magic, although some were
certainly of a more mysterious class.
WONDERFUL CHARMS, TALISMANS, &C. 495
mans, have their foundation in the occult qualities of nature, may be
well worth our inquiry ; because, if cures are to be effected through
their medium, and that without anything derogatory to the deity or
religion, we see no reason why they should be rejected with that
inexorable contempt, which levels the works of God with the folly
and weakness of men. , It was the opinions formerly of many eminent
physicians, that such kinds of charms, which, through the medium of
hope and fear, work an impression upon the imagination, should be
applied and made use of, for harm they can do none, and good they
might do ; therefore, in either case, there can be no lawful argument
against their being used; and there is unquestionably much praise
due to those who have been so industrious* as to deliver such curious
secrets to posterity ; for, to sluggards, niggards, or narrow-minded
men, the secrets of nature are never opened, though the study of them
is certainly conducive to the glory of God, and to the good of society,
by more visibly manifesting the omnipotency of his works, and by
skilfully applying them to mens* use and benefit. Hence, in for-
mer times the magi, or followers of occult philosophy, were ac-
counted wise, and the study honourable, because it chiefly consists
in the most profound and perfect part of natural philosophy, which
defines the nature, causes, and effects of things.
CIRCLE VIII.—SECT. II.
TALISMANS.*
In the whole circle of the theurgic art, there is scarcely any-
thing more abstruse or intricate than the mystical science of talis-
* The society of the Mercurii, for instance, have individually laboured for years
in obtaining a knowledge of nature's secrets, and their labours will no doubt be
duly appreciated by posterity.
—
Ed.
f The late celebrated romance of " The Talisman," by Sir Walter Scott,
evinces a singular instance ofthe faith mankind formerly had in these mysterious
agents, which were formed under appropriate constellations. The editors of this
work, particularly the Mercurii, are acquainted with many scientific persons who
have proved talismanic agency both in preservation from dangers and accumu-
lation of good fortune. Mr. V——y, the astrological champion, has also had
proofs thereof.
496 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
mans. The practice has occasionally received much opposition
from those persons who are either unable to comprehend the secret
yet sublime mysterys of nature, or unwilling to give credence to any
thing beyond the immediate sphere of their own comprehension ;
and, on the other hand, the art has stood its ground with firmness
amidst the change of ages.* Mourning rings, miniatures, lockets,
devices,f mottos, armorial bearings, and the " boast of heraldry,"
J
are but so many relics of talismanic learning.
Sunt lachrymee rerum et mentem mortalia tangunt.
—
Virgil.
* Amonst mankind in general, there is much of talismanic belief, witness the
avidity with which the caul of an infant is sought after, to preserve from danger
by water. There is also a belief that persons born at or near midnight, are apt
to see spirits, and have supernatural omens. This Raphael, the astrologer, sup-
poses may proceed from the sun being then near the fourth house, or house of
secrets and secret discoveries. There seems much truth in this general opinion
which the sceptic will find difficult to disprove.
f It is reported by credible persons, that when Napoleon went to Egypt, he
was there presented with a talisman, by a learned rabbi, the effect of which was
designed to protect and defend him from sudden attacks, assassinations, and all
manner of hurts from fire-arms. Whether or no this was really the case, we of
course cannot decidedly avouch ; but the persons who related it, we believe to
be incapable of falsehood. And it certainly was very singular, that although so
many attempts were made to wound him, and although he has frequently been
seen in battle, when " the balls tore up the ground under his horse's feet," and
although he had frequently horses shot under him, yet he uniformly escaped free
from harm j and he seems indeed to have been inspired with a belief that he was
under some special supernatural agency. The talisman was supposed to have
been formed under the power and influence of the Sun.
J It is singular that in the science of heraldry they make use of houses, the
same as in the astrological science.
497
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXVI.
A TALISMAN
FOR DESTROYING ALL KINDS OF VENOMOUS OR
TROUBLESOME INSECTS OR REPTILES.
This talisman is to be made of iron, when the sun and moon en-
ter the sign Scorpio, It has been proved to be very powerful in
effect; so much so, that, where it is buried, no kind of venemous
reptile or troublesome insect can come within certain yards thereof.*
It is also said to be efficacious in saturnine diseases, especially if
niade when the moon enters the constellation cancer, conjoined
with the sun.
* The MS. from which this is taken cost fifty guineas, and a medical gen-
tleman to whom it belonged, affirms that he had himself proved the truth of
this observation ; for being at one time much annoyed with beetles, he made this
talisman, and screwed it to the floor, when these troublesome insects immediately
disappeared ; but afterwards, when the servant removed it, through ignorance,
they returned in great numbers, when lie again -nailed it to the floor, and they
again disappeared '
! This talisman is easily made.
2 k
498
ILL USTRATION, No. LXXVIL
A TALISMAN AGAINST ENEMIES.
According to the opinion of the ancient theurgists, this talisman
is under the dominion of the sun and Jupiter. It is to be cast of the
purest-grain tin, in the day and hour of Jupiter, at a time when
these planets are in mutual aspect to each other, from the signs
T » SI 9 or £ , and during the increase of the moon. The characters
are to be engraven on the same in the day and hour of Mercury,
likewise during the moon's increase.
It may be suspended about the neck, or worn about any part of
the body, so that it may be kept secret to all but the wearer. Its
effects are, to give the most decisive victory over enemies, to defend
against their machinations, and to inspire the wearer thereof with
the most remarkable confidence.
(£§*• It is to be remembered, that in this and the following talismans,
the embellishments or scenery are to be omitted when they are made.
499
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXVIII.
A TALISMAN FOR LOVE.
" But this most sweet and lighted calm,
Its blue and midnight hour,
Wakened the hidden springs of his heart,
j
With a deep and secret power."
—
Iole.
This talisman is said to be wonderfully efficacious in procuring
success in amours and love adventures ; it must be made in the day
and hour of Venus, when she is favourable to the planet Mars. It
should be made of pure silver, or purified copper. If Venus be in
the sign of Taurus or Libra, it is still better.
2k2
500
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXIX,
In hoe uinai
" But ye whose art th* enchanted moon obeys,
Who summon Heav'n to bless your magic blaze,
Help me, O help!"~PROPERTius.
A TALISMAN FOR WAR AND BATTLE.
" He that beareth this sign about him, shall
be holpen in every need or necessity."
Ancient Mas.
501
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXX.
CIRCLE VIIL—SECT. III.
Inscription anfl Bgc of t&e ancient Wmitfj
©alen&ar**
This ancient almanack, which was in common use throughout
this country, during the earlier part of last century, is a very cu-
rious relic of the Danish Government in England. It was called by
them " Rimstock," from " Rimur," which, in their language, sig-
nified " a calendar."f
* Formerly used as a powerful charm.
t Vide—"The Pirate/' by the author of Wavcrley.
502 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
By the Norwegians, with whom they are still in use, they are
termed " Primestaves," from the introduction of the prime or golden
number upon the staff, or walking-stick, which, with them, is the
prevailing form of this utensil. I have one of these primestaves in
my possession, which consists of the straight branch of a tree, di-
vested of its bark, having the figures of men, animals, birds, fishes,
reptiles, flowers, and weapons, neatly incised upon its surface. It
is about an inch in diameter, and nearly three feet in length.
These instruments differ from each other in form, size, material,
and marks. Olaus Wormius, in his " Fasti Danici," exhibits two;
one hexagonal, with an intermixture of Runic characters, and ano-
ther flat, divided into six columns. He says that there were some
very ancient ones made of horn, and others inscribed upon a hollow
bone. Mr. Gough has engraved one to his edition of Camden's
Britannia.
Dr. Robert Plot, who, in 1686, published "The Natural History
of Staffordshire," has descanted very largely on this singular imple-
ment, in an additional chapter " Of Antiquities." He says that
they were generally made of wood, box, fir, or oak, though he met
with some few of brass ; that they were of two sizes, one larger, for
the use of a whole family ; and others private, of smaller dimen-
sions, to carry in the pocket. This work, which has become ex-
tremely scarce, was published in one volume, folio. The thirty-
fifth plate is a representation of one of the larger sort of clogs, and
dedicated " to the worshipful Elias Ashmole, Esq." who was a
very distinguished antiquary, a native of Lichfield, and collector of
the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford, over which Dr. Plot, at that
time, presided.
The above drawing, which is copied from this print, shows the
four edges of the square log, each one of which contains three
months, which are divided by notches into days, every seventh be-
ing of a larger size, to denote the sabbath ; and the first of every
month is noted by a patulus stroke, inclining upwards. The figures
on the left side of the notches show the golden number, or cycle
of the moon. If this number be under 5, it is denoted by so many
points ; if 5, by a hooked line drawn from the notch representing
WONDERFUL CHARMS, TALISMANS, &C, 503
the ancient sigil V. When above 5, and under 10, the hooked line
has one or more points appended to it ; at 10, the stroke is crossed
thus X, points are now placed above it to 14 ; at 15, the cross is
surmounted by a hooked line, making it XV. The dots are still
continuous, till at 1 9, the line is intersected by two crosses, which is
the last number requisite to mark these changes.
The other figures remaining to be described on the opposite side of the
notches, are symbolical of the life or death of the saint, against whose
feast they are opposed, or of some custom or occupation, in vogue
about the time, as follows :
—
January. August.
Days Days
1. Annulet N ew Years' Day 1. Bow and Arrows Lammas
6. Star Epiphany 7. Cross Transfiguration
13. Cross Hilary 10. Gridiron Lawrence
25. Axe St. Paul 15. Heart Assumption
Ffi BRUARY. September,
Days Days
2. Heart Purification 1. Hunting' horn Giles
3. B. Blaize 8. Heart Nativity
5. A. Agatha 14. Cross Holy Cross
14. Lover's knot
24. Leg
Valentine 29. Pair of Scales Michael
Matthias
October.
VlARCH. Days
Days 13. Man . Edwaid the Confessor
1. Harp David 18. Guitar Luke
2. Bough Chad 25. Shoes Crispin
25. Heart Annunciation 28. S. /.. Simon and Jude
April. November
Days Days
3, Javelin Richard 2. S. All Souls
4. Arrow Ambrose 6. Cross Leonard
23. Spear George 11. M. Martin
Clement
23. JVassail Cup
Days
1. Branch
May. 25. Wheel Catherine
May-day
Invention
30. Cross Andrew
3. Cross December.
June.
Days
6. Hearts Nicholas
Days
11. Rake
24. Sword
29. Keys
Barnabas
John
Peter
8. Heart
13. Lute
25. Drinking-horn
26. S.
Conception
Lucy
Christmas day
Stephen
July, 27 I- John
Days 29. Cross Thomas-a-Canterbury
2. Heart Visitation
7. A. T. erost Thomas-a-Becket
20. M. Margaret
22. Cup M. Magdalen
It may be remarked feasts
with a heart, J.H., Litchfield.
501
CIRCLE VIII.—SECT. IV.
A CHARM TO PROTECT AGAINST THIEVES.
Whoso will protect himself against thieves by night or by day, let
him wear this charm (written on virgin parchment) about him, and
repeat the words thereof every morning, so shall no theft happen to
annoy him.*'—Original Manuscript, dated May, 8, 1577, in the pos-
session of Mr. Graham, the Aeronaut.
THE CHARM.
SDcufl autem transiens per medium illorum, ibat 4* %t)ua Xpujcr -f
benedictus Deufl quotidie prosperus iter facit 2Deu0 salutaris noster
4- 31&U0 obstinenter occuli eorum ne videant, et dorsum eorum ni
curva + 3(£u0 -f- effundus supra eas irs tua, et furor ire tue com-
prehendat eos + Irrnat + supra inimicas meos formido et pavo in
magnitudine brachii fiant eniobiles quasi Lapis, donee per transeat
famulus tuus -f- quern redemisti -f* dextera tua magnificata est, in
virtute sDomini per crusist inimicus in multitudine virtutis tuae de-
posuisti omnes adversarious meos -f- 'Rfyzsu 4- eripe me et ab in
surgentibusque in me libera me + 3H>e0U + custodi me, et de
manu peccatoris et ab hominibusque iniquis eripe me + 3(J?e0U 4-
eripe me de opera tibis que iniquitate et a viris sanguine salva me
4- gloria IPatri 4- 3lnti>o0 -f anoatro + $go*io x ^ag 4- ®fo£ 4-
4- ^pen + 8flia + 8cia0 4- Yskiros 4- •
505
CIRCLE VIIL—SECT. V,
a et&arm for Sealing Mmm>
Taken from a curious MS. of the Twelfth Century, in the Possession
of the Mercurii.
Abracadabra
abracadabr
abraeadab
abracada
a b r a c a d
a b r a c a
a b r a c
a b r a
a b r
a b
a
The letters which compose this charm must be written in a pyra-
midal form, as above, on virgin parchment, with the quill of a ra-
ven, and with ink formed out of the smoke of a consecrated wax-
taper; then let the party who is afflicted of the disease, which he
would have cured, wear the charm hung around his neck during the
time that the moon performs one circuit through the twelve signs of
the zodiac ; and let it be performed on the day of the full moon, and,
if possible, while the moon is in the magical signs 2>acittatiui3 or
It is necessary that the wearer have a firm and confident faith in
the power of Divine Omnipotence ; and the following oration must
be said upon first beginning to wear the above holy charm, and in
very difficult cases the patient should repeat the oration daily, with
great devotion.
STfje 2Dratton.
41
O, sweet Lord 3Jj>£UjJ £hri£t, X the true God, who didst descend from the
kingdom of thy Almighty Father, being sent to wash away our sins, to release
those who were in prison \ and afflicted, to console the sorrowful and the needy,
to absolve and to liberate me, thy servant, from my affliction and tribulation, in
which I am placed. So, O, Omnipotent Father, thou didst receive us again, by
his expiation, into that paradise, by thy blood, O, StpU, X obtained, and didst
make us equal among and angels and men. Thou, O, Lord 3Ie£u£ Cfjrigt, X
•weit worthy to stand between mc and mine enemies, and to establish my peace
506 THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
and to show thy grace upon me, and to pour out thy mercy. And thou, O Lord,
didst extinguish the anger of mine enemies, which they contained against me, as
thou didst take away the wrath of Esau, which he had against Jacob, his brother.
O, Lord %t$u$, X extend thine arm towards me, and deliver me from my afflic-
tion, even as thou didst deliver Abraham from the hands of the Chaldean, and his
son, Isaac, from the sacrifice, and Jacob from the hand of his brethren ; Noah
from the deluge ; and even as thou didst deliver thy servant Lot ; thy servants,
Moses and Aaron, and thy people Israel, from the hands of Pharoah, and out of
the land of Egypt ; David from the hands of Saul, and the giant Goliath ; or as
thou deliveredst Susannah from her accusers ; Judith from the hands of Holo-
fernes ; Daniel from the den of the lions ; the three youths from the fiery fur-
nace ; Jonah from the whale's belly ; or as thou deliveredst the son of Gannanea,
who was tormented by the devil; even as thou deliveredst Adam from hell, by
thy most precious blood ; and Peter and Paul from chains. So, O, most sweet
Lord %z$\\$, X Son of the living God, preserve me, thy servant, from my afflic-
tion, and mine enemies ; and be my assistant, and my blessing, by thy holy in-
carnation, by thy fasting and thirst, by thy labours and affliction, by thy stripes,
by thy thorny crown, by thy drink of gall and vinegar, by thy most cruel death,
by the words which thou spakedst upon the cross, by thy descent into hell, by
the consolation of thy disciples, by thy wonderful ascension, by the appearance
of the Holy Spirit, by the day of judgment, by thy great gifts, and by thy holy
names, Stuonan x <Sfoum x 2trtogm x $acp X 3a3ael x $afiel x
&at>ai? x S302 x gaia£ x tfaeTpfji X &aban x> and by thy in-
effable name Hin* 3Ier)ouafr» X By all these holy, omnipotent, and all-
powerful names of singular efficacy and extraordinary power, which the
elements obey, and at which the devils tremble: O most gracious %Z$u,
X grant, I beseech thee, that this holy charm which I now wear about my
person, may be the means of healing my lamentable sickness : so shall the
praise thereof be ascribed, O Lord, to thee alone, and thou alone shalt have all the
glory." SCmcn. Fiat, fiat,fiat.
By making use of the above occult and sacred remedy, the most miraculous
cures have been heretofore performed; and as there is nothing therein which is
in any way derogatory to the power of the Supreme Being, or inimical to our
fellow-creatures, there certainly can be no harm in making continual use thereof*
upon every occasion.
ANOTHER WAY.
If it were required to perform a cure upon one at a distance, or without the
afflicted party's knowledge thereof, let the charm be written on virgin parch-
ment, and then you may perform the cure without their knowledge, by scraping
out one line of the charm every day with a new knife, kept for the express pur-
pose ; and at scraping out each line, say as follows :—
(t So as I destroy the letters of this charm, Abracadabra, so, by virtue ofthis sacred
name, may all grief and dolor depart from A. B. in the name of the Father, and of
the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. In the name of the Father, I destroy this disease.
In the name of the Son, I destroy this disease ; and in the name of the Holy Spirit,
I destroy this disease.'''' Amen.
Many have healed divers diseases this way ; the disease wearing, by little and
little, away. Therefore keep it secret, and fear God.—Ancient MS. Supposed to
have been an original ofFriar Bacon.
507
CIRCLE VIII.—SECT. VI
The famous Unguent,
OR
<&f)t WLontltxM ©itttment for aajouttfg*
COMPOSED OF THE FOUR ELEMENTAL PRINCIPLES
Rebuke the company of spearmen; scatter thou the people that delight in war.
Psalm lxviii. 30,
THE INGREDIENTS,
Sympathising with the Seven Planets.
1
.
The moss of a dead man's skull 2 ounces.
2. Of man's fat 2 do.
3. Of mummy * h do,
4. Of man's blood h do.
5. Oil of linseed 2 do.
6. Oil of roses 2 do.
7. Bol-ammoniac h do.
The three last ingredients are added unto it, because it helpeth to
bring it unto a subtile ointment, and without question there is also
great virtue in them.
Elements. Nature. Complexion, Planets.
Water Cold and moist Phlegm $ and >
Fire Hot and dry Choler and $
Earth Cold and dry Melancholy T? and $
Air Hot and moist Sanguine %
All these things before mentioned must be mixed together, and
beaten well in a mortar until it becomes an ointment, then keep it in
a close thing, from air, for your use.
The way to use this unguent, whereby to cure, is as follows :
Take the blood or matter of the wound upon the weapon,* or in-
* Another remarkable property of this famous ointment is, that a wound may
be healed without the presence of the patient, only by taking a quantity of the
warm blood which issued from the wound, and applying the ointment to it,
which soon heals the wound.
508 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
strumcnt that made the wound, or otherwise dry it upon a piece of
wood ; then put the wood into the ointment, or else anoint the
blood, being kept dry upon the wood, with the ointment, and keep
it from the air, after which you must every day wet a fresh linen
rag, with the urine of the patient, and so bind up the wound,*
do it early every morning, also you must be careful that the oint-
ment which is applied to the blood, be not cold, but that it be kept
warm. With this sympathetic ungent, wonderful things may be
done, if it be rightly managed, according unto the directions afore-
said. I shall quote one example concerning the trial of this un-
guent, as follows :
—
" One day, being at dinner with Sir H. Forrester, of Aldermas-
ton, Berks, the female who usually waited on his lady, was ex-
tremely tormented with a toothache, we caused hereto prick her
teeth with a toothpick, and to bleed it; immediately we put the
toothpick into the ointment, and she had present ease, after some
time, we took the toothpick, and put it into vinegar, whereupon
she was presently in extreme pain ; we then took it from out the
vinegar, and again applied it unto the ungent, and she was imme-
diately well, and so continued."
—
Blagrave's Practice of Physic.
THE SLEEP OF PLANTS.
" The common chicken weed, with white blossoms, affords a no-
table instance of what is called ' the sleep of plants,' for every
night, the leaves approach in pairs, so as to include within their
upper surface the tender rudiments of the new shoots, while the up-
permost pair but one, at the end of the stalk, are furnished with
longer leaf stalks, than the others, so that they close on the termi-
nating pair, and protect the branch."
—
Literary Chronicle.
* Sir Kenelm Digby relates upon his own testimony many surprising in-
stances of its wonderful efficacy, as also the celebrated Van Ilehnont and others
who lived in tire seventeenth century.
509
ILLUSTRATION, No". LXXXI,
CIRCLE VIII.—SECT. VII.
A REPRESENTATION AND DESCRIPTION
OF THE
Btrfm anfl ©fittmrnfm*
FROM A RARE GERMAN ALCHEMICAL MANUSCRIPT.
The above illustration exhibits a correct view of the Urim and
Thummim ; it consists of a pedestal formed according to the rules of
the magical science, of a composition termed by the theurgists,
electrum magicum, with the word -f* GBIoI)im + on the pedestal ;
in the centre of this is placed a pillar, which supports an oval
chrystal, or polished surface set in gold, and around which must
be inscribed the mighty name of supreme majesty + ^Twacrarrr-
* In the possession of the Mercurii.
510 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
matton -f . Round it are five small chrystals, to represent the
animal, vegetable, mineral, and astral kingdoms, and the one on
top to represent the A of the Lord. The whole must be preserved
in a case free from dust.
The Composition of the Electrum Magicum,
Being a rare MS. Secret, that has never yet been made Public,
" Take four half ounces of which must be poured through the
antimony, melt it on a Sunday, in the hour of the 0, when it is
well fused, throw purified saltpetre into it, until it emits sparks of
all kinds of colours, when it is well purified—and take care that
you do this in the proper hour, then pour it into a new vessel, af-
terwards melt in it, on a Monday, in the hour of the > , four half
ounces of refined silver ;
purify it with salt of tartar, which has
no culinary salt in it, and when the hour is past cease. On a
Tuesday, in the hour of Mars, melt clean pure iron with potashes,
and cleanse it further with pitch or tar. On the Wednesday, in the
hour of ^ 9 me^ f°ur nalf ounces of quicksilver, which purify with
pitch. On Thursday, in the hour of %, melt three half ounces of
tin ; purify it with the fat of a ram. On a Friday, in the hour
of $ , take four half ounces of virgin copper, purify it with vinegar
and saltpetre carefully ; then strain it through a piece of leather.
On the Saturday, in the hour of T? , melt pure lead, throw a good
deal of pitch gr tar upon it, and put it by, and take care on the
hour in which the new moon is light, to melt in the same hour all
the metals together. Put, therefore, your purified lead first into the
crucible, afterwards the tin, before it is too hot, pour the quicksilver
into it, and stir it about with a hazel stick, then put the copper into
it, and give it a strong heat, afterwards the silver, and next the
gold. While all this is fusing, throw into it the eighth part of an
ounce of mineral steel, and cast therefrom the pedestal.
After this get two large chrystals ground on a Friday, and well po-
lished ; now observe when the gets into & , place in the same
hour a crucible in the fire, which crucible must be well glazed there-
in ; take from the same, four stones, which were before put into the
electrum, from each one half aa ounce ; put first the mineral in, then
WONDERFUL CHARMS, TALISMANS, &C. 511
the vegetable and animal, and last of all the astral, and when you
pour this into the mould, it will seem as if the stone was red hot,
like a glowing coal, and it is wonderful, since it never changes, but
so remains continually. Then make the instrument as seen in the
drawing, and call it the urim and thummim. This wonderful secret is
but little known in the world, and neither kings nor emperors can ob-
tain it for money.
Use of this Famous Secret.
When thou wouldest divine by this art, take the urim from the
case, place it on the table, with two wax-lights burning beside it,
constrain your imagination, and fall down with reverence before the
Father in heaven, then having a brazier at hand, filled with hot em-
bers, throw therein frankincense, mastic, benzoin and myrrh, and
begin to fumigate to all four parts of the world, and with the incense
pan also three times towards the urim, then bend thyself, and de-
voutly say as follows :
Tlie Incantation.
O ! X Tetragrammaton, k thou povjerful God and Father !
we praise, love, and pray to thee, we also here are collected laying be*
fore thee, like poor earth and ashes. We honour thy holy and ma-
jestical name, and exclaim with all the saints and elect, three times
Holy, Holy, Holy.* Then sing a song of praise to God, such as
the Psalm, We praise thee O God, $c. And with thy brethren
place thyself round a table, and remain a little while quite still, each
having his eye directed towards the urim, and whatever thoudesirest
or wishest to see or know, shall be manifested unto thee, and thou
shalt become acquainted with all hidden things, and wilt be enablad
to see anything that is being done in any part of the world, no matter
how distant, or whether past, present, or future. But when this
is done, all must be kept a profound secret, the lights must be put
out, and all present must fall down and praise God. This is the
hidden mystery of the urim and thummim."
* This is supposed by antiquarians to be the mode practised by the high
priests amongst the Jews, and to be the same urim and thummim as described in
Scriptures.
12
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXXIf.
CIRCLE VIII.—SEC. VIII.
Tlie IHagic Bell for invoking Spirits,
FROM A RARE GERMAN MSI.
" This bell must be formed of elcctricum magicum, and fashioned
as above described, round it the words + Tetragrammaton + and
+ Sadai, + must be engraved in relief, and also the sign and planet
under which you were born. Also inside thereof the word + Elo-
him, -r and on the clapper Adonai. It must be kept in a clean
chamber, and when thou wouldest invoke the celestial agents or good
spirits, make a fire with incense and proper perfumes, then rehearse
devoutly an appropriate incantation, and ring the bell thrice, when
WONDERFUL CHARMS, TALISMANS, &C. 513
the spirit will instantly appear before thee, and thou wilt be en-
abled to have thy wishes performed. But keep this a secret.*'
Beaumont, in his " Treatise of Spirits," mentfons this singular ma-
gical bell, and relates a history of a certain monk who made use of it.
CIRCLE VIII.—SECT. IX.
PerpeHial Lamps off tlie Ancients.
All fire, but especially flame, is said by philosophers to be of au
active and stirring nature, and cannot possibly subsist without mo-
tion. Now there are several authors who have treated of this sub-
ject, though few that have writ to the purpose, except the ingenious
Fortunius Licetus, from whom we shall gather a few undeniable
proofs, suitable to the present subject.
First then, that there have been such lamps, St. Austin mentions,
particularly of one in a temple dedicated to Venus, which was al-
ways exposed to the open weather, and could never be extinguished.
Pancyrollus mentions a lamp found in his time in the sepulchre of
Tullki, Cicero's daughter, which had continued there for 1550 years,
but was presently extinguished upon the admission of new air. And
it is commonly reported of Cedrenus, that in Justinian's time, there
was another burning lamp found in an old wall at Antioch, which
had remained there for above 500 years ; there was also a crucifix
placed by it, hence it appears that they were in use with the primi-
tive Christians. But more especially remapkable is that of Olybius,
which had continued burning for 1500 years. The relation is this :
" As a rustic was digging the ground by Padua, he found an urn, in
which there was another urn, and in this again a lesser, with a clear
lamp burning, on each side of it there were two other vessels, both of
them full of a pure liquid, the one of gold, the other of silver." Hence
we may probably conjecture, that it was some chemical secret by
which it was contrived.
Baptista Porta tells us of another lamp, burning in an old marble
sepulchre, belonging to some of the ancient Romans, enclosed in a
2 L
514 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTUftV.
glass vial, found in his time, about the year 1550, in the isle Ner,i 3
which had been buried there before our Saviour's incarnation.
In the tomb of Pallas, the Arcadian, who was slain by Turnus in
the Trojan war, there was found another burning lamp in the year of
our Lord 1401, whence it would seem that it had continued there
for above 2600 years, and being taken out it continued burning,
notwithstanding cither wind or water, \v\th which some strove to quench
it, nor could it be extinguished till they had spilt the liquor in it."
Ludovicus Vivcs tells us of another lamp that continued burning
for 1050 years, which was found a little before his time.
There is another relation " of a certain man," who, upon digging
somewhat deep in the ground, met with something like a door, hav-
ing a wall on each hand of it, from which he cleared the earth ; he
forced open the door, and there discovered a fair vault, towards the
farther side of which was the statue of a man in armour, leaning upon
his left arm, and holding a sceptre in hi3 right hand, with a lamp
burning before him, the floor of this vault being so contrived, that
upon the first step into it, the statue erected itself from its leaning
posture, upon the second step it lifted up the sceptre to strike, and
before the man could come near the lamp, to take hold of it, the
statue struck and broke it to pieces, such care was taken that the se-
cret of the perpetual flame might not be discovered. And the
learned and judicious Cambden, in his description of Yorkshire,
(page 572) speaking of the tomb of Constantius Chlorus, broken up
in those times, mentions such a lamp to be found within it.
It is evident from these testimonials of credibility, and from se»
'vera! other relations to the same purpose, that notwithstanding the
'opposite opinions of our adversaries, it is clear that there have been
perpetual lamps, or which have remained burning for several centu-
ries together ; but, like the " malleable glass" of the ancients, the
secret seems to be lost to the present age.
STaUjEMianfc <£ffcc<<* of tl>e #loou obcr tfie
To prove the wonderful occult power which " the empress of the
night*' possesses over the vegetable creation, proceed as follows :
—
Take any given quantity of common peas, and divide the same
into four parts, keeping them separate. Then, on any spot of
ground at all fit for vegetation, when the season approaches for sow-
ing them, sow the contents of the first parcel on the first or second
day of the new moon. The second parcel sow near the same spot on
ihe first or second day of the second quarter ; the third parcel sow
on the second or third day before the full moon ; and lastly, sow the
fourth parcel on the second or third day before the moon is out.
Now the first parcel, sown under the new moon, will grow very fast,
blossom most beautifully, hut will not bear fruit. The second will
blossom and bear very little. The third parcel will not only blossom
beautifully, but will bear fruit in abundance, and the fourth and last
parcel will scarcely rise from the ground ! Likewise all fruit trees set
at the new moon blossom, but never bear fruit ; while all others set
three days before the full bear abundantly. And in pruning trees
the same effect takes place, for a tree pruned at the new moon will
shoot forth branches, but unbearable, and if pruned at the full, they
will be prolific.
This curious experiment has been tried by the Mcrcurii and se-
veral other philosophers ; it at once decides the moon to possess the
most powerful influence over sublunary affairs, and whether relative
to the animal or vegetable creation, or to the world at large, still is
this influence perceptible to every searcher after Nature's secrets, and
the discoveiy thereof will repay the curious inquirer,
r>ic
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXXlll.
CIRCLE THE NINTH.
Anecdotes of the Dead and Terrific Legends,
CONTAINING
AUTHENTICATED NARRATIVES OF VISIONS,
Spectres, Ghosts, Ominous Warnings, and Supernatural Occurrences ; selected
from the Records of the Curious in all rfges.
" Though my mind's not
Hoodwink'd with rustic marvels, I do think
There are more things in the grove, the air, the Hood,
Yea, and the charneU'd earth, than what wise man*
Who walks so proud as if his form alone
FillM the wide temple of the universe,
ANECDOTES OF THE DEAD, k, 517
Will let a frail one say I'd write i' the Creed
O, thesagest head alive, that fearful forms,
Holy or reprobate, do page men's heels ;
That shapes, too horrid for our gaze, stand o'er
Tha murderer's dust, and for revenge glare up,
Even till the stars weep fire for very pity."
" Millions of spiritual creatures walk (he earth
Unseen, both when we wake, and when we sleep."
So great is the dominion of modern scepticism, that the existence
of spirits, and their occasional appearance, is now generally doubted
by those who are termed learned; or at least it has become fashion-
able to deny, in public, that such appearances do exist. Now scep-
ticism, under whatever form tt appears, derives its origin from a
want of innocence, and though it is wont to pride itself for the great-
ness of its wisdom, the only and most significant name that is due to
its knowledge, is that of self-derived intelligence, which is the great-
est ignorance and insanity a human being can possibly fall into.
Scepticism is more or less an evil according to the subject that is the
object of its incredulity; and as the discrediting the existence of
spirits and their appearances leads to a disbelief of a future exist-
ence, and indeed to the being of a God, the ne plus ultra of unbelief,
wc shall endeavour to prove the existence of spirits both from facts
and reasoning that would be very difficult to be set aside by the most
incredulous.
It is somewhat strange that the generality of mankind should have
associated no other idea concerning the soul or spirit of man, than
that of air or ether, and that it cannot be seen or heard, or perform
any action till it is again united to the body, when our own innate
perception, joined to the evidence of Scripture, will sufficiently teach
us that a man is a man after death, in all respects as he was before,
with the same body, the same face, the same speech, and the same
affection and thought ; and that the only difference is, that after
death he is in a substantial spiritual body ; whereas before death,
although he possessed the same spiritual body, yet it was crusted over
with a material covering, which by death he puts off, and never has
occasion to resume.
The idea we have of angels is, that they are spiritual beings, and
j I rHE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY".
in a human form, a very just idea, for they appeared so to Abraham,
Lot, Manoah, to Daniel, to the woman at our Lord's sepulchre, to
Peter, and to John in the Revelations ; and as there are few who arc
not of an opinion that good men become angels in another life, itfol
lows, of consequence, that the spirit of man is in a human form, and
that he lives a man after death in all respects as he was before, save
only that he is not enveloped in a material body.
That spirits have occasionally appeared, I think we may not be
m any doubt of, since not only those who arc termed superstitious
have avouched it, but wise and good men in all agc3 declared in the
most solemn mannei they have seen such appearances, many of
which have been replete with horror, some terrific, and some have
assumed a mild and even pleasing aspect. And these characters
who have avouched for the truth of spirits, have usually been of too
great integrity to deceive others, and their understandings have been
too strong to be imposed upon themselves.
When a relation of this kind comes evidenced by every proof it
is possible a good and sensible man can bring for the truth thereof,
a degree of credence ought certainly to be attached to it, equalling
that which may have been produced in us by ocular demonstra-
tion. The man who will believe nothing but what he can sec with
his eyes, and feel with his hands, possesses a very callous will at
best, and a dark mind ; and though he may congratulate himself on
his ability to discern the truth from error, yet the medium through
which he views every subject, is in the continual act of rendering
him the dupe of its deception.
One great stumbling block of unbelievers is, that they themselves
have never seen them ; for if they do occasionally walk about, they
think it strange they have never met with them ; which fallacious
mode of reasoning originates from an idea that they are to be seen
like any material object, and with the same species of vision, which
is a gross error, for the bodily eyes of man can only discern natural
objects ; their vision is solely accommodated to the light of this
world ; they can behold nothing beyond it. Now it is only with the
i yes of the spirit which is in man, that he can po-bibly behold a
spiritual being, for like only can lcc like in the 3ame common na-
ANECDOTES OF THE DEAD, &C. 519
lure. And let it be well observed; iliat a man, as to his interior
part, is a spirit, and is endowed with spiritual senses which far sur-
pass those of the body, and that tho body derives its form and life
from it ; therefore it is only when a man's spiritual sight is opened,
that he can see spirits, and then they appear as if he saw them with
his bodily eyes, which is, however, not the case, the vision being
purely spiritual.
This species of spiritual vision is occasionally granted by the Su-
preme Being to particular persons. It was in this manner that the
angels appeared to Abraham, to Lot, to Manoah, and to the pro-
phets, and thus was Christ seen by his disciples after the resurrec-
tion. It was from this kind of vision the prophets were called
seers, and " the mon whose eyes were opened." As in the instance of
Elisha's servant, of whom it is said that Elisha prayed, and said,
lt
Lord I pray t/icc open his eyes, that he may sco" And the Lord
opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw ; and behold the
mountains were full of horses and chariots of fire around about
Elisha/'
It is to be noted that when a person's natural sight is opened, he
is in a very different species of spiritual enjoyment to that which
takes place in a vision or reverie. In the former the natural senses
remain in full possession of their faculties, but in the latter the ex-
ternal senses are quiescent, the soul being absorbed within itself,
and so abstracted from surrounding objects, as to be totally insensible
to all around it.
We may also ask, would the notion of spirits appearing visible
have become so universal, if it were not founded in truth ? Would
so many nations, who had never heard of each other, have agreed in
the same tale, if fact and experience had not given it credibility ?
The doubts and cavils of the few cannot set aside the testimony of
the many, especially as we know there is a great portion of mankind
who, though they deny it with their tongues, betray plainly enough
by their/tars, that they hclkve it in their hearts,
520
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXXIV,
CIRCLE IX.—SECT. I.
Original dPratjmmtg
Relative to the Appearance of Apparitions,'and the Secrets of the InvisibleWorld,
most of which have recently occurred, and none of which have ever been pubr
lished.
COMMUNICATED
By Raphael? the Astrologer
ANECDOTES OF THE DEAD/ fee. 512
I.—APPARITION TO MR. GRAHAM, THE AERONAUT,
{As related by himself to a Friend. J
" On the 22d of June, 1821, in the eveniag, Mr. G. called upon
me in great agitation, and gave me an account of a most extraordinary
supernatural occurrence respecting the appearance of two spirits,
which he had just seen, as follows : —Late in the evening of this day,
himself and three friends were going into the P n, Oxford Street,
to have a view of some philosophical process relative to aerostation,
which was there being pursued, when, as he advanced to the edge of
the pit, he was surprised to sec the appearance of two boys, who
were perfectly black in visage and clothing; they stood at the end of
the entrance hall, where was a chasm of nearly nine feet in depth
from the dilapidated state of the building, and into which, most
probably, the whole company would have fallen, had not these vi-
sionary beings appeared in that place, as if blocking up the road
thereto. When the company came within seven or eight yards dis°
tance of them, they suddenly turned round, and instantaneously dis-
appeared. Four distinct sounds were heard, and no more. Now
it was utterly impossible that any human beings could either secrete
themselves or run away, for the staircase was nearly thirty yards
distant, and Mr. G. sent his companions immediately in every di-
rection by which they could escape, but no one was to be found,
added to which there was no possible outlet, the doors were all
locked, and the windows closed, so that no human being could have
escaped, unless they either sunk into the earth, or took their flight
through the roof of the building." This is verbatim as the aeronaut
related it.
%
522 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY,
2.-SINGULAR APPEARANCE TO MR. MULREADY, R. A.
This gentleman communicated the following particulars to a
friend : —One day he was busily employed in painting the portrait
of a youth, and being earnestly engaged thereon, all of a sudden he
saw, as it were, the figure of the youth he was painting, appear to
leave the canvas, apparently going over the top thereof; it then ap-
peared to take a turn round the room, changing its position, and
then turning its back to the artist ; and what is more singular, at
the same time he saw tho same figure on the canvas he was painting.
The illusion continued about the space of a minute, and then vanished.
3.—OMENS OF DEATH, &c. TO MRS. WELLS, OF
WHITECHAPEL.
A few days previous to the death of Mrs. Wells, of E h Street,
Whitechapel, which occurred in the year 1823, the hour hand of
the clock which was hanging in the room flew suddenly off, of its
own accord, struck her father on the face, and then flew into the
(ire. Also several unnatural noises were heard in the night, as of a
person washing, &c.
But the most strange occurrence was this : —In consequence of a
letter which a near relation received anonymously from a surgeon in
the neighbourhood, he postponed the funeral for a fortnight, and
just upon the day of interment, he was woke up in the early part of
the morning by three loud knocks at his door, and upon waking he
heard these words distinctly, •! Why do you keep me so long ?"
—
So confident was he that it was the voice of the deceased speaking,
that he replied instantaneously, ** I have a reason for it." But upon
reflection he was much struck with the strangeness of the occur-
ence, the cause of which he cuuld not possibly discover, and no
doubt remains of its being supernatural.
523
Stppftritfong at Slfc&ote ftdc$, goiiuvgctgftirc,
APPEARANCE OF AN EVIL SPIRIT.
Somewhere about the year 1801 or 1802, as a servant of Mr.
Isaac Smith, an extensive landholder of the county of Somerset,
was walking upon Leigh Warren, in the dead of the night, he saw
suddenly appear before him the appearance of an evil spirit. It
resembled a huge monster, like a lion, and had eyes of nearly four
inches in width. It was quite stationary, and only a few yards dis-
tant from him. The rustic was much terrified thereat, but, being a
man of courage, he was resolved to leave some vestige or mark of
the place where he had seen it, and consequently he stuck his quar-
ter staff in the ground where he saw it, which was found standing
there the next morning by several witnesses, who went with him to
the place where the hideous goblin appeared. This is exactly as
he himself related it.
OMINOUS DREAM.
Mr. King, a respectable baker, residing in Castle Street, Oxford
Street, a few years since had the misfortune to lose two of his eldest
sons. They were at the time in India, and, in tho month that the
eldest died, he was shocked by dreaming that he saw his son pale and
ghastly, and about to be buried. Alarmed at the impression this
dream left on his mind, he imparted it next morning to his wife, and
her fears increasing his anxiety, he sought out a vessel that was go-
ing to that part, and also by other means, urged every possible in-
quiry to be made after his son's health. After several months he
received intelligence that his son was dead and buried, and he died,
as far as could be asccrtainedj precisely at the time his father had the
above dream ! This he himself is ready to attest the truth of.
524
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXXV,
5.—APPARITION AT THE OLD LEIGH COURT HOUSE.
The manor, or court house, at Abbots Leigh, was lately pulled
down by its present proprietor, P. J. Miles, Esq., a rich merchant
of Bristol. But previously thereto, it had been in the possession of
the Gordons, who were formerly allied to the Stuart family.
In the 18th century, a lady descended from this family was dis-
appointed in some object of her affections, which she took very
much to heart ; she rose one day from dinner; and remained absent
some time, which absence being prolonged, the servants were sent
in search of her, and they soon found her in the water-closet, with
her throat cut, and lifeless ; this she did in a fit of insanity. After
this dreadful act, the noises heard in this part of the house (as the
closet was placed at the end of a long gallery) were so hideous and
alarming; and evidently caused by something beyond all possible
ANECDOTES OF THE DEAD, &C. 525
research, that they wore obliged to have the gallery closed by iron
doors, in order to give some idea of security to the domestics, who
were so alarmed thereat, that the whole of them were upon the
point of quitting the place. The writer of this account had a re-
lation who resided there, a lady of unquestionable integrity, and
who herself heard it. The writer has also himself seen the blood-
stained floor, which, for nearly a century, remained as an awful me-
mento to the frailty of human nature ; and no art could wash away
or obliterate the stains, although it had been repeatedly attempted.
This mansion was of amazing extent, and in one part thereof was a
secret closet, where the unfortunate Charles II. was concealed after
his last unlucky battle, and from which he escaped with great ha-
zard ; the story of this is related with many traditionary ad-
ditions, and a few years since, some relics of this monarch
were sold at a public auction. Amongst the rest were some
chips of the wood on which he sat, which were sold for one
guinea each, and also a gold table, and a curious secret ca-
binet, which contained, at one period, much hidden treasure.
There are many relics of the place and its traditions still
remaining, but the house no longer stands, it having given way to
a superb mansion. A monastery formerly stood at this place, and
the antiquarian would find ample room for curious reflection, were
he to visit the domains of the present proprietor, P. J. Miles, Esq.,
who would, no doubt, from his known liberality, be ready to afford
every possible clue to antiquarian discoveries that should lay in
his power. Not far from this place arc the remains of a Roman
camp, with the fosse, circumvallation, and extensive breast-works,
equally valuable to the eye of the antiquarian; and it is strange
that, although so many wealthy and opulent persons reside near the
place, an examination of their contents has never been attempted.
The prospect from this camp, which overlooks the Avon, is most ro-
n^tic.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXXVL
A CURIOUS OLD ASTROLOGER, AND HIS SINGULAR
PREDICTIONS.
At Abbots Leigh also resided M. Fowler, a curious old astrologer,
who, without being able to write even his own name, was enabled,
from mere dint of hard study, to predict many remarkable parti-
culars, lie was in the habit of laying for whole nights together on
a couch, in the porch of hi3 house, watching the stars, and in this
respect he resembled the ancient professors of the art, for he could
ascertain not only the rising and setting of each constellation,
but he could also diecern the horoscope of the infant who was born,
in the heavens, without the aid of tables, or calculations therefrom.
lie predicted the overthrow of Napoleon, and the rise of Wellington,
many years before they were known in public events. lie also dis-
covered the Georgium Sidus, previous to Herschel the astronomer,
and was au fait in predicting the weather, &c. He thus became
the oracle of these parts, and being churchwarden of the village,
his name was much esteemed amongst the inhabitants. But the
most remarkable prognostication of this old star-gazer was as fol-
ANECDOTES OF THE DEAD, &C. 527
lows : On a certain day, the astrologer was in the company of Mr.
I S , then chief constable, transacting some business of the
village, at the George Inn, in the neighbourhood, and the conver-
sation turning upon astrology, a rustic entered, and thinking to
banter the old man, inquired of him " whether he was in any
danger from being bled, on that day ?" Every one present, of
course, thought the astrologer would answer in the negative, as
there is, in general, no danger in the operation. But to their as-
tonishment, he told the rustic, " that if he was bled on that day, he,
would lose his life" This, the fellow merely laughed at, and im-
mediately went to have the operation performed. But mark the re-
sult ; he was bled, and afterwards, by some means or other, the
bandage came undone, and a copious discharge took place, it wan
again stopped, but, in spite of every endeavour, the part festered,
and, in spite of medical aid, turned to mortification, and he lost
his life in a few days, exactly as the astrologer predicted.
FATAL DREAM.
" On Sunday last a respectable young man, named James Williams, residing
hi Kintf Street, St. George's in the East, while on a party of pleasure with some
friends, was unfortunately drowned, near Barking.
" On the nights of Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, preceding his death, he was
haunted by the mostfearful dreams, which presented appalling pictures of drown-
ing in every variety of shape, and with all imaginable terrifying accompaniments.
The fist dream he paid but little attention to, neither did he take much notice of
the second, but the third, in consequence of its repetition, making a deep impres-
sion on his mind, he communicated to his sister. She, knowing the engagement
he had made for the next toy, and his intention of going on the river, made use
of the strongest and most sisterly arguments to dissuade him from his purpose.
All her entreaties were, however, without effect ; he still, though somewhat
staggered, determined to keep his engagement, and not disappoint his friends,
and asked what would be thought of him, if ht were to assign an idle dream as an
excuse for his absence. His mind, notwithstanding, was strongly influenced by
the conviction, that what was meditated as a day of pleasure, would eventually
prove one of mourning, and fatal to himself : he therefore told his sister, that,
should the catastrophe which he anticipated tain- place, let his body be ever
so long in the water, it would be recognised by certain marks on his dress; he
then punched three letters on each of his shoes, which he pointed out to his sister,
and set forward on his Ul-fated excursion. Boats are dragging in all directions
for the body, which has not yet been found."
—
Times, Sept, 8, 1825.
528
(SxtraovMnarj) Incantation an» JWagical (Bttttt
WROUGHT BY SOME RUSTICS,
Who Studied Magic and Witchcraft at a Village near Mangotsfield, in Glou-
cestershire.—Communicated by Isaac Smith, Esq., of Clifton, Somersetshire.
« Demon of another world,
To and fro so often huil'd,
By my power, through midnight air,
Appear, appear;
Thy master's will,
For good or ill,
Quick now obey,
My power display,
And at my call
Appear
!
Monster ! horrific
'
Demon ! terrific
!
Appear !" Wizard of Scotland.
The following singular occurrence can he attested by several cha-
racters of known truth and probity, upon oath, if required ; were it
otherwise, the narration thereof is so strange, that we should forbear
to publish it. The narrator thereof is still living.
****»
" It was in the latter part of the year 17—, that one bleak win-
ter's evening, at the village of Downend, in Gloucestershire, Mr. W.
S., a miner of considerable property, had retired from the avocations
of the day, and was sitting in his apartment, listening to the fury of
the elements, and meditating upon the labours he had just quitted
when there came a knock at the door, and immediately two of his
rustic acquaintance entered the house, probably to obtain some
shelter from the inclemency of the weather, and entered the apart-
ment where he was sitting. After the usual salutations customary
in those parts were passed, and after the known hospitality of the
owner of the house had been proved by somewhat copious libations
very common in the west of England, where the juice of the apple
is esteemed as much as the juice of the grape in more refined parts,
ANECDOTES OF THE DEAD, &£.
r
>29
The conversation insensibly turned upon the subject of ghosts, visions,
magic, and incantations, a theme which appeared of great interest,
As Mr. S,, the landlord, was acquainted of old with the universal
character these men bore in those parts for being expert in curious
arts and secret mysteries, he at length requested them to afford him
a specimen thereof, which, after some hesitation, they consented to
do, and one of them, who was the principal, by the name of William
Flew, told him " to place the table in the middle of the house, and
they would show him some curious sport.'* This being done, (at the
desire of the rustic,) he proceeded to draw a large and open circle
around the table, and after performing several mystic ceremonies,
and repeating several uncouth incantations, to the utter astonishment
of those present, who were several in number, there grew up in the
midst of the table a tree, nearly seven feet high, and of beautifulform,
the branches distinguished for their verdure and similitude to nature.
This being done, it may be well supposed the amazement of those
who were present was extreme at such an extraordinary vision, but
none exceeded that of Mrs. S., the mistress of the house, who was so
convinced that the appearance she beheld was real, that she grew
very angry at the thought of" her fine mahogany table being spoil-
ed," and with some difficulty she was persuaded to leave the magi-
cal illusion uninterrupted by threats and angry words. After this,
another mystic and equally unintelligible ceremony was performed
which took up a considerable time, and on a sudden there was seen to
enter the room several little men, of small stature, and dubiousform,
with sacks or bags slung at their backs, each of them having an axe in
his hand, with which axe they instantly fell to work, and with great
vehemence began to cut down the tree, which they did with such vio-
lence, that the chips few in all parts of the room. After they had
done this, these devils (for such they evidently must have been) pro-
ceeded with great care to pick up the various chips which were
scattered about the place, and collected them in their sacks, seem-
ingly very careful that none should be left. Having done this, they
of a sudden departed, vanishing imperceptibly from the sight ; how-
ever, one of the company, of a curious turn, found means to secrete
pne of the chips in his pocket, hoping to elude their vigilance ; but
2 M
530 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINET-EEXTH CENTURY.
he was soon astonished, and indeed not a little alarmed, to see one
of the devils suddenly standing before him, and fiercely staring him
in the face ; however he paid but little attention thereto, but the
person who performed the incantation then told him that " he
must give up the chip he had secreted, or he would have no rest,'*
which he did accordingly, and immediately the supernatural ap-
pearance, or demon, vanished, and shortly afterwards the rustic ma-
gicians retired.
The house (and orchard) where this wonderful scene of illusion
was acted, is still standing in statu quo, and it is very remarkable
that it was the identical spot where Thomas Perks is said to have
raised spirits, as recorded in " Sibly's Occult Sciences."* It is said
that there are a number of books buried hereabout, a tradition much
believed by the inhabitants, for, in former times, it was the junction
of four cross roads, and the centre of the forest of Dean. It is no
less remarkable, that the above estate and premises is the heredi-
tary property of the astrologer Raphael.
8.—APPARITION TO MRS. SARAH SMITH.
(As related by Herself.
J
During the early part of this lady's life, she resided at Kensing-
ton, and it was in the spring of the year 1820 that, one morning,
upon awaking, she was struck with horrific astonishment, at seeing
near the foot of the bed, the appearance of her female cousin, then
residing at Ealing. The spectre apparently was undressed, without
shoes or stockings, in a sitting posture, and looked remarkably pale
and sickly. Being very much alarmed, Mrs. S. either closed her
eyes for a moment, or averted her sight from the awful apparition,
and upon again looking for the ghost, it had imperceptibly vanished,
and nothing remained to be seen where it appeared. However, it is but
proper to state, that the omen was confirmed ; for, within a day or
two of this, her cousin died in childbirth. Previous to her death she
• See Sibly's « Illustration of the Occult Sciences," page 1121. Also Beau-
mont's "History of Apparitions," in each of which the above adventure of Thomas
Perks with spirits is recorded.
ANECDOTES OF THE DEAD, &C. 531
had expressed a great desire to see Mrs. S. This relation cannot be
doubted, as she is a person of the strictest veracity, and now living.
9.—EXTRAORDINARY IMPULSE OF A DECEASE.
In the autumn of 1820, Mr. Graham, the aeronaut, had the mis-
fortune to lose his first wife. While she lay ill, he had occasion to
go out upon some business, leaving his wife attended by the nurse
;
she was in better health, apparently, than the day previous. While
walking in Covent Garden Market, a thought suddenly struck him
that his wife was no more ; the impulse was so powerful that he could
not withstand it, and although he hastened home with all possible
speed, yet, before he could get back, he found her at the last gasp,
and, before he could recover from his surprise, she pronounced a
name and expired* This occurrence he related himself to a friend.
10.—ATTEMPT TO RAISE THE SPIRITS OF THE MOON.
(As related by Mr. Flight, the Bristol Astrologer. J
A few years since, Mr. F. and another student in the occult sci-
ences, resolved upon making an attempt to raise a spirit ; they ac-
cordingly, after mature deliberation, determined upon raising the
lunar spirits, or those attributed as such to the government of the
moon : for this purpose they repaired to a field in the neighbour-
hood, and commenced their operations. They drew the circle cor-
rectly upon a plain part of the field, and had no sooner began their
magical incantations, than there came the most fearful noises, to
which succeeded copious showers of rain around the circle, but
none fell inside thereof. After this, there came a figure apparently
like a woolpack, which perambulated the circle, and, as may well
be supposed, terrified the operators. However, the next appearance
was still more fearful and terrific, for there now came a most furious
bull, which hideously roaring, darted directly at them. The as-
sistant operator, no longer able to keep up his courage, ran in dis-
may out of the circle, got over a stile which adjoined, and escaped.
The bull pursued him to the aforesaid stile, and then vanished. Mr.
F. persists in the truth of this, and declares that it was only by the
most powerful incantations that he ensured his own safety.
2 m 2
132
CIRCLE IX.—SECT. II.
SUPERNATURAL NOISES AND OMENS OF DEATH,
Which have recently occurred. ,
In the year 1819, as the family of Mr. Notly, builder, of Upper
Thames Street, were sitting in the evening in their parlour, they
heard a tremendous noise over head, which resembled the falling
down of a heavy piece of furniture, but with such force it fell, that
the house shook with the weight. They immediately ran up stairs,
and sent their apprentice to the house adjoining, but to their utter
astonishment, nothing in either house had fallen, neither could any
cause be assigned for the dreadful noise they heard. This passed
over for several days, and was partly forgotten, when of a sudden
their eldest daughter was taken ill of the small pox, and soon after-
wards died. There can be no doubt but this was an omen of her death.
*******
In the year 1821, Mrs. Noblet, a female residing at 432, Oxford
Street, was awoke in the night by three loud knocks at the door of
her apartment. She immediately rose and opened the door, but no
one was visible, nor had any one been stirring at that hour ; but
within a month of this noise she had an infant child die very sud-
denly.
*******
In the winter of the year 1820, a gentleman and his wife, residing
at No. —, Margaret Street, Cavendish Square, were so pestered
with noises in the night, such as heavy blows on the furniture,
cracks, and once in particular they heard persons walking over
head and moving furniture, as if but recently returned home,
although the door was fast locked, and the inmate of the apartment
was from home the whole night ; they were so pestered with these
noises, and others equally as unaccountable, that they were obliged
at last reluctantly to quit the house. After their departure, several
deaths took place ; and, since that period, the back part of the house
was entirely destroyed by fire.
ANECDOTES OP THE DEAD, &C. 533
In the year 1822, a female, who was then residing at No. 5,
Castle Street East, had a sister who died in child-bed. The night
her sister died, a son of her's, who was about five years old, awoke
in the night, and saw a tall woman standing at the foot of the bed,
undressed, with her eyes closed. The child being frightened, drew
back his sight from the apparition, but venturing to look again, he
could not see it. In the morning he told his mother of the occur-
rence, who was scarcely inclined to believe it, and tried to persuade
the child that he must have been deceived by fear. But the little
fellow persisted in his tale of wonder. Surprised at this, the mo-
ther sent to inquire after the sister's health, when, to her astonish-
ment, she learned that her sister expired in the night, and from aH
that could be gathered, about the time that the child saw her ap-
parition.
A few years since a lady residing in Kensington Palace died, and
the night previous to her death, the whole of the inmates were
alarmed in the dead of the night by a noise resembling the driving of
a nail rnto the wainscot. It was remarkably loud, and though every
inquiry was set on foot to trace out any apparent cause thereof, the
attempt was entirely fruitless. It was decidedly an " omen of
death."
*****•
In the month of April, 1825, a person died at No. —, Riding
House Lane, Portland Street. The week before this happened, and
before the deceased was an inmate of the house, the persons who
resided in the apartments underneath, heard a noise over head, as of
a person walking about and preparing to go out, although no one
was on that floor at the time. The person who heard it, (a female
of credibility,) thought no more of it at the time, but was surprised
to find, upon comparing the circumstances, that the noise was
heard precisely a week before the party died, and, no doubt, de-
noted such an event.
534
CIRCLE IX.—SECT. III.
THE TAPESTRY LEGEND,
OR,
Account of a ©fiogt.
(From the Memoirs of Madame de Gtnlis.)
"At a social entertainment (says the countess), the Chevaliei de
Jacour was requested to relate his grand story about the tapestry.
I had always heard of this adventure as being perfectly true, for he
gave his word of honour that he added nothing to the story, and he
was incapable of telling a lie.
"The adventure became prophetic at the period of the Revolution.
He was 12 years of age, when his father, who wished to send him
to the army, under the care of one of his uncles, brought him to his
chateau.
" The same evening, after supper, he was conducted to a large
room, where he was to sleep ; on a stool, in the middle of the room,
was placed a lighted lamp, and he was left alone.
"He undressed himself, and went immediately to bed, leaving the
lamp burning, he had no inclination to sleep, and as he had
scarcely looked at his room, on entering it, he now amused himself
with examining it; his eyes were attracted by an old curtain of
tapestry, wrought with figures, which hung opposite to him, the
subject was striking ; it represented a temple, of which all the gates
were closed. At the top of the staircase belonging to the edifice,
stood a kind of pontiff or high priest, clothed in a long white robe,
holding in one hand a bundle of rods, and the other a key.
" Suddenly the boy, who gazed earnestly on the figure, began to rub
his eyes, which he thought deceived him, then he looked again,
and his surprise and wonder, rendered him motionless. He saw the
figure move, and slowly descend the steps of the staircase ! At last,
it quitted the tapestry, and walked into the room, crossed the cham-
ber, and stood near the bed ; and addressing the poor boy, who wa*
almost petrified with fear, it pronounced distinctly these words :
—
' These rods will scourge many ; when thou shalt sec them raised 01
EXTRACTS, &C. 535
high, then stay not, but seize the key of the open country and flee
.'*
On pronouncing these words, the figure turned around, walked up
to the tapestry, remounted the steps, and replaced itself in its former
position ! The youth, covered with a cold sweat, remained for more
than a quarter of an hour so bereft of strength that he had not
the power to call for assistance. At last some one came,, but not
wishing to confide his adventure to a servant, he merely said that
he felt unwell, and a person was set to watch by his bed-side dur-
ing the remainder of the night.
" On the following day, his father having questioned him on his
pretended malady, he related what he had seen. Instead of laughing
at him, as the chevalier expected, the count listened very atten-
tively, and then said.—" This is very remarkable, for my father9 in
his early youth, in this very chamber, and with the same personage
represented in the tapestry, met with a singular adventure. The che-
valier would gladly have heard the detail of his grandfather's vi-
sion, but the count refused to say more upon the subject, and even
desired his son ' never to mention it again,' and he caused the ta-
pestry to be pulled down, and burnt in his presence."
CIRCLE IX.—SECT. IV.
SINGULAR EXTHilCTS
RELATING TO SPIRITS AND DEMONS, AND THEIR FOVVER OVER
MANKIND,
Communicated by Philadclphus in a Letter to the Mercurii.
PlIILADELPHUS TO THE MERCURII GREETING, 5ENDETH THEM WITH MUCH GOOD
WILL—"A RELATION OF THE APPARITION OF A SPIRIT KEEPING THE TREA-
SURES OF THE EARTH, AND OF HIS DELIVERY OF THE KEY OF A CERTAIN
MOUNTAIN IN GERMANY TO A CONSIDERABLE PERSON, AND WHAT THERE-
UPON ensued."—Abstracted from ike Theosophical Transactions by the Phila-
delphian Society, 1G97.
" We received advice about two months agofrom the Marquisate of U -g,
by a person of undoubted reputation and great worth, who was pleased to consult
with some of us about what was best to be done in this matter. How that in a
place called N—n, there was a little man, seeming of about 15 or 16 years of
age, who came in the night to the bed-side of a certain person of quality, telling
him he must go with him ; and, as the gentleman refused, he was severely threat-
ened by the other, menacing kirn that hi would wring off his head if he still
636 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURA
'/cfused. Whereupon, being greatly terrified, when he had put on a coat which tnc
little man had brought to him, the gentleman went along wiffi him, and was led
tip out of the castle wherein he lived to a certain mountain ; the little man then
proceeded to open the mountain, and having done so, gave the said person the key
to it, saying,—i
He would do'wisely to take great care of this key, for that otherwise
it would not go well with kirn.'' As the person awoke, early in the morning, hi
knew not whether it was a dream or a fact. But, nevertheless? he put his hand
into his pocket, where he fnds the key that was given him by the little yuan, and
it was signed with three crosses. lie looked also for tfe money which he had put
in his pocket, but lie remembers that he put it into the pocket ofthe coat which the little
man had brought, and carried away with him again. He beheld also his shoes, which,
according to his own boy^s saying, the evening before were cleaned, but hefound them
now quite dirty. Now, after he had considered this a great while, and contriving
what he should do with the key, he shows it to his companion ; but, as he put his
hand out ofthe window, the key slipped out of his hand; both of them saw where
the key fell, but when he came down to fetch the key away, it was there no
more. A little while after this, in the morning, when he was walking through a
certain alley, he felt somebody give him a grievous stroke in the face, and yet he
perceived none to be near him; but his cheek was swollen very much tliereby,
there arising up a great black and blue nob, and hereupon he sickened. But he
is chiefy afflicted with the fallen sickness, wherewith he lias been ever since troubled,
-notwithstanding all medicines and remedies used, yet not alt&gether so grievously
as at the beginning. Likewise, as he not long ago ivas at prayers, in the church,,
(he being always very sedulous at the public devotions) he saw upon his hand
these words—* He is dead !\ No further particulars we have yet received; but,
as it is already related$ several questions may be put, thaticill deserve to be con-
sidered:' ,i
'
Query 1. What is to be thought concerning those treasures that arc by
many believed to be concealed in some mountains and caverns of the earth ?
Q. 2. Whether there be any peculiar order of spirits that do preside over
them, and of what rank ?
Q. 3. What can be the end of keeping such treasures, and what must be
their design in revealing them to any ?
Q. 4. Whether this gentleman could safely have refused to attend the spirit,
and what mtthod he should have taken to have secured himself?
Q.5. Whether it is not possible that there may be real apparitions and tran-
sactions, both good and bad in sleep ?
Q. G. Whether the obedience to this spirit was voluntary or involuntary, and
how far the liberty of the will may be supposed to be constrained, or let loose in
this night action ?
Q. 7. What was the meaning of the coat brought by the spirit? Was it a real
coat, or only imaginary ?
Q. 9. What was it that occasioned the loss of it, and gave such an offence to
the spirit?
Q. 10. Whether natural distempers may not sometimes be caused from spi-
rits ? And whether evil spirits are not good natural magicians to hurt and destroy ?
Q. 11. What is meant by the words—" He is dead," or " the man is dead ?"
Q. 12. What is to be understood by Isaiah ch. xl. v. iii.—/ will give thee
the treasures of darkness, and the hidden riches of secret places !
ON SPIRITS AND DEMONS. 537
An answer hy Dn. Lee to certain queries proposed upon a relation
OF THE APPARITION OF A SPIRIT, KEEPING THE TREASURE OF THE EARTH,
AND OF THE DELIVERY OF THE KEY OF A CERTAIN MOUNTAIN IN GERMANY
TO A CONSIDERABLE PERSON.
QUERY I.
What is to be thought concerning those treasures that are by many believed to be
concealed in some jnountains and caverns of the earth f
That there are really hidden treasures in several mountains, caverns, and
other places of the earth, many relations do confidently attest. What ground
there may be for such an attestation, and how far the evidence of the witnesses
may deserve to be relied upon, will not, perhaps, be altogether unworthy of our pre-
sent inquiry. These witnesses are not only dead, but there are also living ones, and
some of them persons even of very great sagacity and penetration of judgment,
as well as experience. The great mutations of the revolutions that have
been in the world, but especially the terrible incursions of the barbarous nations,
from the fourth century downward, and the dissolution of monasteries in the last
age throughout the protestant part of Europe, may incline one to believe that
much of what is related as to this matter may not be quite improbable, though
intermixed with relations that are either wholly or in part fabulous, and set off
with some unaccountable circumstances and superstitions. The writers de lie
Mctallica, may hereupon be looked into.
It is related in the life of Jacob Behmen, that whilst " he was a herd-boy, in
the heat of mid-day, retiring from his play-fellows, to a little stony crag hard by,
called the Land's Crown, where the natural situation of the rock had made a
seeming enclosure of some part of the mountain, finding an entrance into it, he
went in, and found there a great wooden vessel, full of money, at which sight,
being in a sudden astonishment, he did, in haste, retire, not moving his hand
thereinto, and came and related his fortune to the rest of the boys, who, coming
up along with him, sought often, and with much diligence, an entrance, but
never found any; though some years after, a foreign artist, as Jacob himself re-
lated, skilled in the finding out such magic treasures, took away the same, and
thereby much enriched himself, yet perished by an infamous death, that treasure
being lodged there, and it seems, laid covered with a curse to the tinder and
taker away."
And it is the opinion of some, that here, in England, there' were formerly depo-
sited such treasures in some of our churches and monasteries, with a curse upon
whomsoever should find them, or should possess them, or any thing else apper-
taining to the said churches or monasteries, otherwise than by such a way of
devolution as was originally designed. It is also by some believed, that several
of our monasteries were at first founded, either from such magic treasures, or
from something of an equivalent, if not superior nature.*
And it has been said, that the walls of the fairest and richest monastery in the
west of England were thus built by one who was afterwards brought to an infa-
mous death ; he having too much enriched himself by a treasure hid in the
church thereof, which he was taught how to have access to, whenever he pleased,
by a strange artist, who led him into it, and in his sight, carried away thence a
jewel of an inestimable value, though with great hazard, because of the opposi-
* See Dr. Campbell's " Hcrmippus Ikdivivus."
538 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
tion that was made. And there is one known to our society, who doth aver, that
when he was at Rome, in the year 1693, he was there told by a person of good
intelligence, how that there died, then (in or about the month October), au un-
fortunate gentleman, in the hospital of St. John Lateran, whose death was chiefly
imparted to a great fright, though the occasion hereof was said by him to have
been concealed, till ho opened the same in confession. Wherefore the name of
the person was kept secret, but the matter of fact was said to be thus : —He hav-
ing been engaged in a duel or rencontre, had slain a man, for which he was
obliged to fly ; and the fear of justice everywhere pursuing him, he absconded
himself in very melancholy and lonesome places, and one night as he was en-
deavouring to rest himself in the porch of the church of St. John Lateran, he was
suddenly terrified by the apparition of a skeleton, who commanded him to follow
him, and to fear -nothing, for that he meant him no hurt, but a great deal of good,
if it were not his own fault. So a little recovering himself, he said he followed
the spectre into a certain ground belonging to the hospital, where the spectre
stopped, and the earth opening, there was discovered to him six earthern pots full
of money, which were encompassed about with flames of fire. Then, said the
spectre unto him," Friend, all this money that you see, I will now give to you,
if you will but take possession of it ; be of courage, fear not the flames, for they
cannot hurt you, fear them not, I say, they shall have no power over you, for
therefore only do they appear, that you may be terrified from laying hold on what
I now freely do offer you: But what you do, must h0
r done immediately, othetwisc,
I must deliver up this very hour all this treasure to the spirits OF the earth, loho
are waiting just now to receive it ; accept what is offered, if you are wise ; it will
not be longer in my power to transfer the same to any, and when it is too iate you
may repent. But notwithstanding all the persuasions of the spectre, this poor
man could not be prevailed on to accept the offer of the treasure at such a peril
as presented itself. Only he made a mark where the spectre disappeared, and
being left as it were half dead, was the next morning received into the said hos-
pital, where he remained in a deplorable state for several days, being fully re-
stored to his senses, in which time he made the aforesaid confession, with many
other circumstances (some suppressed and others forgotten), for the truth thereof
the curators of the hospital making a diligent search in the place to which they
were directed, found just so many and such kind of pots as were named to them,
but which were all empty.
That in Italy, there is great abundance of such treasures, some curious7
in-
quirers do pretend to determine, from many reasons. And there is not wanting
a catalogue or book that is kept very secret in some few hands wherein all the
said treasures arc said to be registered. And we arc credibly informed, that
some persons have been employed and pensioned for this cause, by those that
are of a very high degree in the world, in order to make such a discovery. Ac-
cordingly some of them (the least guarded) we are told, have been discovered,
and taken away by these artists, and particularly from out the ruins and anti-
quities of Rome, and also about Naples.
Now it may be demanded, whether all these hidden treasures be of the same
nature and order ? To which, it is answered in the negative, that they are not.
For, according to what the persons were, unto whom they did originally belong, if
they did ever belong to any, according to the mannci and design of the conceal-
ment, and various other cucumstanccs, and lastly, according to the secret law-,.
ON SPIRITS AND DEMONS,
rule3, and orders, oi the divers inhabitants of the invisible woihL, to them any
wise related so is the property and nature of these concealed treasures very
much altered and circumstantiated.
QUERY II.
Whether there be any peculiar order of spirits that do preside over them, and what
rank ?
Some think they do enough when they cast all upon the devil that is of this
kind. But let us do justice even to him ; not ascribing to him more than he is
rightly chargeable withal ; or making him the refuge of our ignorance, as well
as the butt of our ill nature. Yet, however, some cannot conceive or credit any
intermediate orders and degrees of spirits, betwixt the blessed angels in the
kingdom of light, and the adverse ones in that of darkness ; others of an inqui-
sitive and philosophical genius, both among the antients and moderns, do sup-
pose that this would be to introduce a mighty chasm or breach into the creation
of God, and therefore they do maintain there arc many intermediate degrees be-
twixt these two, in the scale of the spiritual creation, and that there is no less
variety in the invisible than in the visible system of nature.* Neither are they
at all shocked herein by the objected silence of the Holy Scriptures ; for they
answer immediately, that by the things that are visible, those that are invisible
are made clearly known. And therefore, say they, Moses had no need to de-
scribe the creation of the spiritual, and (to us) invisible world or worlds ; for that,
by having described that which is material and visible, we may thereby arrive to
the discernment and knowledge of the other, which is in it shadowed forth ; and
they think that Moses speaks fully enough of this to any that are skilled in the
oriental and symbolical way of writing.f They say, also, that David was not
only a poet, but also a philosopher, or rather a theosophist, when he called upon
all the creatures to praise the Lord. And indeed the ordinary interpretation of
tke 148th psalm, and some other places of Scripture, seems but flat and low, and
very inconsiderable, if compared to that high and exalted sense which they
would have given to the same with respect to the grand hallelujah of the whole
creation.
Now they would give us to understand, that these middle ranks of spirits were
all put into subjection under man, so long as he should remain in the Paradisai-
cal state, that is, should be a true and loyal subject to God, his Creator, by vir-
tue of the blessing pronounced upon him, Gen. i. 28. and afterwards prophetically
renewed, Ps. 8th. wherefore they do suppose that not only the fowls of the air,
the fishes of the sea, and the beasts of the earth were made subjects of man, in
his original constitution (as he was the true representative of God, bearing his
character and image) and were in all things obedient at his commands, as to
their Prince and Lord; but also all the elementary spirits, or the natives, and
spiritual aborigines of such or such class in the inferior or elementary worlds,
whether they be of an aerial, aquatic, or terrestrial kind (according to the three
grand divisions of these spirits there typically hinted at) were all made subser-
vient to him from that word of blessing essentially spoken forth from the central
* See Dr. Cheyne's " Five Discoiuses on Regimen," &c. also Dr. Nicholas
Robinson's " Christian Philosopher," vol. 2.
t "See the Chevaliei Ramsay's " Philosophical Principles,'' 2 vols. 4to.
540 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
fountain both of his and there being ; though he be not after the same manner £<x
to them as to him ; whence say they, both angels and men, may not improperly
be called the offspring of God, and the sons of God, but that neither of these ex-
pressions is at all appropriable or communicable to such inferior orders of spirits,
who, by their birth, are put under the feet of Christ, and (consequently) of man
also, before he was degenerated into a servile and bestial form, sinking into it
from that imperial and divine one, wherein he was first constituted. And from this
ministration, subserviency, and subjection of theirs toman, they may be called
servants, or hired servants, as some that are learned in the Hebrew cabbalad—do
think that they are called in the parable of the prodigal son. Now as the servant
is not the heir, but the son, so likewise, these kind of spirits are not the heirs of
God, neither can they be, being born under servitude j and as an hired servant
receiveth his wages, so doth every one of these from their Supreme Master 5 and
though they may not inherit with the son, yet may they possibly receive portions
or gratuities, and be encouraged with suitable rewards, according to the fidelity
and diligence of their service. These, say they, were to have been the satellites
of the human race in their Paradisaical purity and power, and would thereby
have been with them partakers of the heavenly favours and blessings which they
enjoyed, as a good servant whom his master loveth is with him partaker accord-
ing to his degree of the plenty which the master possesseth. But the fall of
man (who was the master) was not only a tumbling down of himself into death
and misery, but it has also subjected these subordinate classes of spirits (who
were his servants) to the vanity and the bond which they now lie under, by con-
straint, and " not willingly." Whence there is hopes to them of a future deli-
verance from the bondage of the corruptability and impurity of the elements
(wherein they reside) as man shall come again to be restored to his Paradisaic
state and kingdom ; wherefore, also, some do think that when the Apostle men-
tions the whole creation's groaning, and being in pains of child-birth for this
deliverance, he might have, in the first place, an eye towards these ranks of in-
telligent creatures. And some relations there are that do seem highly to favour
this interpretation.* Now as there is a very great variety, and even contrariety
in the birds, the fishes, and the beasts, which we behold at this day, the which
were yet created by God in a most beautiful and perfect harmony, so the like
may be supposed concerning those invisible elementary inhabitants, that there
is at present not only a great variety, but even a contrariety too among them.
And though we are not able to behold them with our outward eyes, we maybe
allowed to judge concerning them, from that which is visible and sensible to us,
when we shall consider all the orders of creatures that have terrestrial bodies.
Some of which may seem to have partaken with man very little in the curse,
others more, and some so much, as it may well be doubted, whether any particle
of the divine blessing remain in them, and whether they be not rather generated
wholly from the curse. In like manner some of these elementary spirits may
have suffered very little in comparison of what others have done by the fall of
mankind, whereas others may have fallen under an exceeding heavy weight by
the entering of the curse hereby into nature. So that, being naturally the sub-
jects of man, they stand with him in the corruption, discord, and wrath of the
* Particularly in the singular work of Count de Gabais, from which Pope
acquired the machinery for his" Rape of the Lock,"
ON SPIRITS AND DEMONS. 541
elements. And they must stand so, as long as the elementary strife shall re-
main, or until it come to be swallowed up into the holy heavenly quintessence,
or divine element, the undefiled womb of the morning, the fire-water of life, which
the Eastern Magi have named their Hasshammaim.*
But if there be indeed such middle ranks of spirits, that do remain with man
until the day of judgment in the contention of the elements and astral efflu-
viums, it maybe queried in what rank of these do you place those spirits which
are reported to guard the hidden treasures of the earth, whether in the mountains
or in other places ? To tl^is it may be answered, that none of them are of the
first or second, but all of them of the third grand division, and though amongst
these there may be those of various kinds or tribes, yet that all are of a terrestrial
generation.
Hereupon it may be further demanded, if there be such a peculiar order of spi-
rits that do preside over the treasures of the earth, that of these there be various
degrees, (some whereof are much better than others) whether upon supposition of
the possibility, it may be lawful for man, while clothed with this gross and ter-
restrial body, bearing the marks of the fall, to maintain any kind of intercourse,
society, or conversation, with all or any of these degrees ? Some have earnestly
endeavoured to converse with any of them indifferently, without examining
first of what degree or station they might be. Others, not so easily satisfied, have
yet consented to a correspondence with some of them who have appeared to be of
the best sort. But whatever the practice of any may have been, either for a good or
an evil end, we cannot but think such a correspondence, of what nature soever it
be, and after what methods soever it may be carried on, to be extremely dangerous ;
for man being naturally their superior, and they his subjects, until man shall re-
gain again his natural superiority over them, the danger may be exceeding
great of passing away the right of nature, his true birth-right, and so of making
himselfsubject to them, whose master he ought to be, and will be ; if he be not
kept down by a magnetical or magical force in some or other region below Pa-
radise. Hence the rise of idolatry in the ancient heathens, who were much better
learned in great part of the intellectual system of the world than the moderns are,
under what denomination soever they may pass, or be called by. Hence the
Egyptians, from whom Polytheism was derived to other nations, when, in their
temples, they worshipped towards the image of a calf or of an onion that was
made out of this or that metal, were not so stupid as to imagine that there was
any deity either in a calf or in an onion ; but through these images they had re-
spect to some spirit, or perhaps order of spirits, that was figured or shadowed
forth in visible and corporeal nature by one or the other of these ; and that, iu
their sacred worship, was presented unto them in such or such a metal as might most
aptly express such or such a planetary influence, according to that astrological
and talismanical knowledge in which they were most eminent.f
* See Law's il
Spirit of Love," part 1.
f See Gafferel's " Unheard-of Curiosities, but particularly the letter written
by the Rev. Mr. Bedford to a Bishop of Gloucester, respecting a great mathema-
tician who had communion with the spirits of the earth. This letter Mr. Sibly
has introduced into the 4th part of his " Occult Philosophy," and it was pre-
viously published in Beaumont's « History of Spirits," &c. a work of consider-
able merit.
512 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
QUERY III.
What can be the end of keeping such treasures, and what must be their design in
revealing them to any 1
Ans. According to the nature of the treasure kept, and of the spirits or demons
that keep them, so must be the end of their concealment. And whereas these
terrestrial demons can hardly be supposed to conceal them solely (if at all) for
themselves, it has hence been concluded, by most, that they do it for man ; for
being in their essence somewhat allied to him (as has been declared) they desire
that he should be caught into their principle; hoping hereby more to complete
their essence, feed their life, and satisfy their nature, if they can but anywise
make themselves masters of him, whose subjects originally they were. But as
these are subordinate spirits, which are under the government of higher orders,
so according to these, rather than the former, is the end to be sought for ; and as
this is extremely difficult to know, so likewise is the uncertainty of the end.
For the invisible kingdom have their polities in like manner as the kingdoms of
this visible earth, and they have doubtless as various designs to carry on, and
may make use too of as different measures to compass them. However, there
may be one grand end or design (under which many subordinate ones will be
contained) common to the princes and subjects of this or that empire in nature
whatever, whether good, bad, or mixed. And forasmuch as there is great rea-
son to be afraid, that the apostate principalities and po\vers of the angelic world
have here very far extended their usurpation, there may be a great design of them
laid, which may not break forth till toward the latter end of this world.* Well,
but what can they mean in offering to reveal these treasures to some particular
persons? Ans. If the end and manner of their concealment, the laws, or pacts,
respecting the same, and the qualifications of those persons to whom these offers
are made were perfectly known, then might we be able distinctly to resolve this
query. But till this be, it is enough to be satisfied in general, that all such kind
of offers are dangerous to the utmost to accept, or so much as listen to, without
there could be such an impregnable armour obtained, as it were impossible for
any evil (or mixed) spirit to penetrate. And further, it may not unreasonably be
presumed, from the most deplorable history of our countryman, Dr. Dee, as also
from some other relations of good credit, that certain subtle Luciferian spirits
have been carrying on, for above this hundred years past, some great intrigue, in
order to grand alterations in the outward governments of the world,for the establish-
ing somewhat that may run diametrically counter to the spiritual Kingdom of
Christ, which they, foreseeing, do, and will continue, by all methods, to ivar
against. 7
* See Dr. John Pordage's Account of the Principalities of Hell, &c. in Beau-
mont's" History of Spirits."
f It will be discovered by this, that the spirits that inspired the late
Joannah Southcote were of the lowest order of these elementary spirits, and those
that taught Baron Swedenborge, of the highest order, both, however, under the
direction of Lucifer, to mislead two orders of men, of very different signatures,
thus mightily warring against the true spiritual kingdom of Christ, by spreading
in many directions (gross and refined) false doctrine; and these infatuated spi-
ON SPIRITS AND DEMONS. 543
But wo know that Michael, the Prince of Israel, shall stand up to fight for the
children of his people in the latter day. When the various centres and princi-
ples are unlocked, spirits of all kinds do go forth, some to teach, others to deceive
man ; some to minister to him, others to domineer over him ; some for this end,
and others for that, according to the great diversify of their nature, degree, or
office. Wherefore it highly behoves all men to be exceeding careful in an affair
of this nature; since the soul of man is so framed, that all are capable of being
acted upon by them, visibly or invisibly, sleeping or waking, in one form or ano-
ther. And if the true spirit shall reveal itself toieards the latter end of this world
in a more than ordinary manner (as many do believe,) it may well be expected, that
there tvili be sent out at the satne time, from opposite and intermediate kingdoms,
loth wicked and lying, as also vain and trifling spirits,* of various ranks, orders,
and offices ; and that, as the true spiritual Christianity shall begin more and more
to exert itself, as in the most primitive and apostolical churches, so there may,
on the other side, start up along with it, many impostures or delusions, whereby
even well-meaning persons shall be captivated ;f whence we ought to be very
sober, and to examine into the grounds of all such appearances (if real) and con-
stantly to hold fast to the true spirit of revelation and of prophecy, and by which
alone the hidden treasures of the deity, and of the invisible worlds, are manifested
to the humble and prudent of heart.
A perilous day draws nigh, and is even now, wherein the false prophet and his
emissaries shall exceedingly prevail ! And as it was in the days of the Apostles,
some may live to see sundry Antichrists setting up themselves, and calling them-
selves " the mighty power of God," upon whom the God of this world will not
be wanting to bestow those riches and honours which he claims as his own.
However, the bank of wisdom, no evil or unclean spirit shall be able to draw
near to J.
QUERY IV.
Whether this gentleman could have safely refused to attend the spirit, aud what
method he should have taken to have secured himself?
Ans. If his mind were already captivated with a strong imagination after such
hidden treasures, it was then altogether impossible (though we should suppose
him at the same time to have the perfect use of his senses) to refuse such an at- (
tendance as this demon did demand, at least without the imminent peril of life
itself. But if his mind were not before thus captivated, it doth not appear but
that he must have been at his perfect liberty either to obey or disobey this trou-
blesome spirit. For though the exercise of will seems to be absolutely bound up
in sleep, yet every one can more or less testify, that this is not perpetually so,
rits will now effect more than ever, on account of the near approach of that pe-
riod when such wonders will be manifested in all nations, as were never before
witnessed.
* To wit the followers of Joannah Southcote. .
t As was most deplorably exemplified in that late excellent engraver, Mr.
Win. Sharp.
% A work has been recently published that will throw immense light on this
interesting subject, entitled, " The Judgments of God on the Apostatized Gentile
Church," &c. It is a reprint of a book written originally by a friend of Dr. Lee.
544 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURV.
but that they can perceive sometimes a liberty of following the free inclination of
their wills, just as if they were awake. And it is the judgment of some philoso-
phical and experienced heads, that could the imagination of man, (wherein the
original evil and curse doth properly reside) come to be thoroughly defecated
and cleansed, all the scenes that pass before him in sleep would be real and substantial
and all his actions relating to them would be free and voluntary. But the
apostacy and degeneration of the imaging part of the soul is so deep, that this is
not to be expected of any, without a perfect renovation of the lapsed adamical
nature. Wherefore, since this is so, and that the renovation and restitution of
human imagination to its original seat, and subordination to the mind and wis-
dom of God is so great and difficult a work, it will deserve to be inquired what
method he should have taken under the present imperfections of his nature, to
have secured himself against the impertinencies and importunities of this ter-
restrial spirit ? And the answer to this is very plain, that every one ought to free
themselves from all covetousness and the love of this worldf
if they would expect
to be secure from the machinations of all these orders of spirits, whether infernal
or terrestrial, whether aerial, or else the inhabitants of the fountains of waters,
who can take up various forms to act in, and are no less (if not more) dangerous
when they transact their plots after an invisible manner, than when they do it
after a visible manner. This is an effectual remedy against the insults and
surprises of any spirit of this rank. And another remedy that is like to it, and
not to be disjoined from it, is earnest and real prayer for the divine protection
against all the illusions of darkness, with frequent aspirations, (after the cus-
tom of holy David) that so hereby there may be such an habitual delivery of
spirit, soul, and body, into the hands of the Almighty, that it will be impossible
for any other seizure to be made, eithej secret or open.
QUERY V.
Whether it is possible that there may be real apparitions and transactions both
good and bad in sleep ?
This is already answered in the affirinative. And not only this single instance,
but many others do confirm the same, but especially the apparition of an angel
to St. Joseph in a dream, warning him to fly from the intended persecutions of
Herod, and the apparition of another angel to the magi, in like manner warning
them which way they were to travel. Now here it ought well to be observed,
that it is quite a different thing to dream that I see an angel, and to see an angel
in a dream as this righteous man did : the former is phantastic, the latter is
real. Here also a distinction is to be made betwixt substantial and symbolical
apparitions, which last are, in some degree, real, but not so properly as the first.
Of this kind were the dreams of the patriarch Joseph and of Daniel, and of se-
veral others mentioned in Holy Scriptures ; whence the interpretation of
these dreams was anciently a divine r.cience> that was not bestowed upon any
but such as were highly favoured and beloved of God. But as soon as man
would go to make an art of it, it was presently defiled with a thousand supersti-
tions, follies, and impertinences. Thus came in the Chaldean oneirocritics,
which the Greeks afterwards mended according to their manner, as the supersti-
tion ofthe vulgar in latter ages amongst us hath done since, partly from their cus-
tom, and partly from strained allusions. Now it is certain, that these symbolical
dreams are transacted in the soul by the ministration of angels (of one kind at
ON SPIRITS AND DEMONS. 545
least or other) and where the imaginative faculty k; purified from drossy and
earthly matter, there is an entrance opened for good angels to administer, and to
step in at certain seasons for assistance and succour, many undoubted instances
whereofare not wanting in history, but amongst which I know none to be more
remarkable than that which is related concerning the deliverance of a certain
congregation of Protestant Christians, in the reign of Mary I. Queen of England,
by the timely securing of the catalogue of its members, which must otherwise
have been seized, and would have involved them all in the peril of their lives ;
and it is not at all to be doubted but that if men did live generally better lives
and more depend upon the providence and leadings of God, such sort of admo-
nitions might be more frequent than they are. Though there be also some na-
tural signatures, with which some are marked, whereby they are rendered more
aptfor, and susceptible of, such impressions than others are, or can be.
As for the other sort of dreams (if they can properly be called so) which are so
very real and substantial as to be transacted after the manner that in this narra-
tive is recorded ; they are much more rare than the former. But yet these real
apparitions in sleep are not so very rare as they may be thought, which is because
they are sometimes not heeded, or believed to be so. But were men possessed
with a right notion of the mariner of the soul's working during the sleep of the
body, many secret and hidden things might possibly come to be revealed to them by
the apparitions ofspirits or demons connatural to them, and also of the souls of
their departedfriends or relations ; for the state of the soul doth then most nearly
approach to that which she finds after her solution from this elementary body,
and is therefore most capable of a true and real intercourse with spirits and
souls of her own rank, if she be fitly instructed for it, and be also rightly quali-
fied and prepared according to the instructions given, especially if she have a
strong magical signature, or a violent magnetic drawing of her will, which
to some is peculiar, and is exceedingly dangerous, until it be regulated, for that it
associates itself more easily with the inhabitants of the dark and middle worlds,
which it also not seldom mistakes for the holy inhabitants of the light angelical
world.* But such a soul, when it is brought into true order and harmony by an
entire submission to the divine will, is a vessel fitted for all the divine influences,
and is itself such a wonder in the mystery of God, as requires the pen of an angel
to describe.
f
'•
QUERY VI.
Whether the obedience to the spirit was voluntary or involuntary, and hoiafar the li-
berty ofthe will may be supposedto be constrained or let loose in this night action !
This is already answered in the solution of the fourth query, for thence it appears
that this obedience was partly voluntary and partly involuntary, and that the
liberty of the will is not so constrained, or bound up even in sleep, as to enda-
mage any one that has not first by a previous consent, some way or other, surren-
dered itself} upon which many reflections might be made relating to diabolical
suggestions and temptations in dreams.J
i
'
* Whosoever will be at the pains of reading the life and leadings of Joannah
Southcote or Baron Swedenborge, will see how strikingly this applies to both
of those well-intentioned, though highly-deluded persons.
t See the last Discourse in Bromley's " Way to the Sabbath of Rest," and par-
ticularly Tryon's " Mystery of Dreams and Visions Unfolded."
% It is to be regretted that the answers to. the other six queries were never
published,
2 N
546 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
AWFUL APPARITION TO LORD LYTTLETOlC
" The subject of this narrative was the son of George Lord Lyttle-
ton, and was alike distinguished for the raciness of his wit and the
profligacy of his manners. The latter trait of his character has in-
duced many persons to suppose the apparition which he asserted he
had seen, to have been the effect of a conscience quickened with re-
morse for innumerable vices and misgivings. The probability of the
narrative has, consequently, been much questioned ; but in our own
acquaintance we chance to know two gentlemen, one of whom was
at Pitt Place, the seat of Lord Lyttleton, and the other in the imme-
diate neighbourhood at the time of his lordship's death, and who
bear ample testimony to the veracity of the whole affair.
The several narratives correspond in material points ; and we
shall now proceed to relate the most circumstantial particulars
written by a gentleman who was on a visit to his lordship :—
" I was at Pitt Place, Epsom, when Lord Lyttleton died ; Lord
Fortescue, Lady Flood, and the two Miss Amphlets, were also pre-
sent. Lord Lyttleton had not long been returned from Ireland, and
frequently had been seized with suffocating fits ; he was attacked
several times by them in the course of the preceding month, while
he was at his house in Hill Street, Berkeley Square. It happened
that he dreamt, three days before his death, that he saw a fluttering
bird ; and afterwards that a woman appeared to him in white ap-
parel, and said to him, ' Prepare to die, you will not exist three
days.'* His lordship was much alarmed, and called to a servant
* According to the narrative of a relative of Lady Lyttleton, the following is
the version of the circumstances as related by Lord Lyttleton :
—
Two nights before, on his retiring to his bed, after his servant was dismissed
and his light extinguished, he had heard a noise resembling the fluttering of a
dove at his chamber window. This attracted his attention to the spot •, when,
looking in the direction of the sound, he saw the figure of an unhappy female,
whom he had seduced and deserted, and who, when deserted, had put a violent
end to her own existence, standing in the aperture of the window from which the
fluttering sound had proceeded. The form approached the foot of the bed :—
the room was preternaturally light j the objects of the chamber were distinctly
JuM^Wt******* °f a ^nt U \'ovb WvMton.
TAeform approacAcd'
tA* led.-. tAc room was prctcrnatural/y liyAt. tAc oA/icts ot'tAc CAam&er nerc dis-
iinctlv vLstik, wUBty&rhaui.l pointing toaJ)ia/ wAicA stood on tfi< mantelpice of'tAc t'Aimnc} tie Ayurs
mtA a severe solemnity ofrout- <t manner, announced to tAc appalled ir consume stnclen Man. tActtattAat ten
Aourcn the tAird day a/frrtA' v/ /tafion. A/sZdc andS/as woidd Ac cone/acted'."
^^ ^, r/
_
j
Icmde/i. William. CAartten WnyAi. 6$. Fater Afoster Haw.
ON SPIRITS AND DEMONS. 547
from a closet adjoining, who found him much agitated, and in a
profuse perspiration : the circumstance had a considerable effect all
the next day on his lordship's spirits. On the third day, while his
lordship was at breakfast with the above personages, he said, ' If I
live over to-night, I shall have jockied the ghost, for this is the
third day/ The whole party presently set off for Pitt Place, where
they had not long arrived, before his lordship was visited by one of
his accustomed fits : after a short interval, he recovered. He dined
at five o'clock that day, and went to bed at eleven, when his servant
was about to give him rhubarb and mint-water; but his lordship,
perceiving him stir it with a tooth-pick, called him a slovenly dog,
and bid him go and fetch a tea spoon ; but, on the man's return, he
found his master in a fit, and the pillow being placed high, his chin
bore hard upon his neck, when the servant, instead of relieving his
lordship, on the instant, from his perilous situation, ran, in his fright,
and called out for help, but on his return he found his lordship
dead.
" In explanation of this strange tale, it is said, that Lord Lyttleton
acknowledged, previously to his death, that the woman he had seen
in his dream was the * mother' of the two Miss Amphletts, men-
tioned above, whom, together with a third sister, then in Ireland,
his lordship had seduced, and prevailed on to leave their parent,
who resided near his country residence in Shropshire. It is further
stated, that Mrs. Amphlett died of grief, through the desertion of
her children, at the precise time when the female vision appeared to
his lordship ; and that, about the period of his own dissolution, a
personage answering his description visited the bed-side of the late
visible j raising her hand, and pointing to a dial which stood on the mantel-
piece of the chimney, the figure, with a severe solemnity of voice and manner,
announced to the appalled and conscience-stricken man, that, at that very hour
on the third day after the visitation, his life and his sins would be concluded,
and nothing but their punishment remain, if he availed himself not of the warn-
ing to repentance which he had received. The eye of Lord Lyttleton glanced
upon the dial ; the hand was on the stroke of twelve :—again the apartment was
involved in total darkness :
—the warning spirit disappeared, and bore away at
her departure all the lightness of heart and buoyancy of spirit, ready flow of wit,
and vivacity of manner, which had formerly been the pride and ornament of the
unhappy being to whom she had delivered her tremendous summons.
2 n 2
548 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURA.
Miles Peter Andrews, Esq., (who had been the friend and compa-
nion of Lord Lyttleton in his revels), and suddenly throwing open
the curtains, desired Mr. Andrews to come to him. Tho latter, not
knowing that his lordship had returned from Ireland, suddenly got
up, when the phantom disappeared ! Mr. Andrews frequently de-
clared, that the alarm caused him to have a short fit of illness; and,
m his subsequent visits to Pitt Place, no solicitations could ever
prevail on him to take a bed there; but he would invariably return,
however late, to the Spread Eagle Inn, at Epsom, for the night.
* Sir Nathaniel Wraxall, in his Memoirs, has the following pas-
sage:—
* Dining at Pitt Place, about four years after the death of Lord
Lyttleton, in the year 1783, I had the curiosity to visit the bed-
chamber, where the casement window, at which Lord Lyttleton as-
serted the dove appeared to nutter, was pointed out to me ; and, at
his stepmother's, the dowager Lady Lyttleton's, in Portugal Street,
'Grosvenor Square.—I have frequently seen a painting, which she
herself executed, in 1780, expressly to commemorate the event: it
hung in a conspicuous part of her drawing-room. There the dove
appears at the window, while a female figure, habited in white,
stands at the foot of the bed, announcing to Lord Lyttleton his dis-
solution. Every part of the picture was faithfully designed, after
the description given to her by the valet de chambre who attended
him, to whom his master related all the circumstances*
An engraving, copied from this picture, has been published, and
Is still frequently to be met with in the collections of printsellers.'
Signs before Death.
519
ILLUSTRATION, No, LXXXVII.
CIRCLE THE TENTH.
MEKCUKIANA ?
OR,
Estrological anfc Scientific dFragimnw.
SECTION I.
AN EXTRACT FROM
PARTRIDGE'S « DEFECTIO GENITURARUM,"
Proving the Superiority of the Calculations made by the Zodiacal Planisphere
over the Old Sifntem of A> ithdetical Calculations.
550
The Nativity of KEr. Vincent Wing,
THE ONCE CELEBRATED ASTRONOMER, AND FOUNDER
OF « WING'S almanacks;'
WITH SCIENTIFIC REMARKS THEREON,
BY RAPHAEL.
ILLUSTRATION, No. LXXXVIIi.
** X
\ A
X
A
/ v\y X°
y \y^
NATUS
Die 9 April,
Hor. 5. Min. 48.
P. M.
1610.
N*X
X^%
"X
X
^X ^ x
La tit. Planet
b 1 51 S
V 57 S°
<* 2 46 N*
9 20 N'
S 1 23 S"
> 46 N
*' Perhaps in some men's opinions it may be disputed who is
giver of life in this nativity, because both luminaries are in aphetical
places, and in their own dignities ; but I think there is no ground for
any doubt of that nature, if a man rightly understands the text, and
will be guided by it. Let him remember, Interdiu Sol anteferendus
est, and by that rule the sun is here hyleg, without dispute. I am
not punctually certain when he died, but as I think it was in the
end of the summer, in the year 1668, or 1669, at the age of 49 or
50. Nor do I know what disease he died of, but do believe it was a
lingering sort of a disorder, attended with a hectical habit of body,
and a consumption, because Mars, who is first in the train of
death, is in opposition to Jupiter, and also Jupiier"s square in mundo
falls in with them, but cannot save, and therefore specificates the dis-
ASTROLOGICAL FRAGMENTS, 551
ease, which I do think is some disorder of the lungs. Sec the direc*
tions"
Arc. Yf. Mth.
© ad a $ in mund. d. d 46 24 47 6 1666
ad S 1? in zod sine lat 47 51 48 11 1668
ad aldebaran sine lat 48 34 49 8 1669
0adn 1? motu converso 49 44 50 10
ad $ lj in zodiaco. c. 1 50 23
ad n % in mundo. d. d * . .
.
50 51
" This is that train of directions that I do assign for his death,
and this done without altering the figure he gave a minute, and
besides, I keep to my hyleg. If any skilful man is of another opi-
nion, 1 should be glad to see his doctrine published."
Afterwards Mr. Partridge says, " He died September 20<ft, 1668,
of an hoarseness, with a catarrh and consumption.''*
Partridge's Defectio Geniturarum, page 322.
REMARKS ON THE ABOVE JUDGMENT.
As Mr. Partridge has long ceased to exist, what I shall hereafter
remark cannot be construed either as envious or contentious, I
merely make the following observations for the purpose of showing
that this most justly celebrated of all astrologers was in an error
through the incorrectness of his tables, and probably for want of
using that important invention of the present times, " The Zodia-
cal Planisphere.1 '
With respect to his judgment thereon, and his choice of hyleg, I
shall add nothing, they being consonant with the purest principles
of art, but will merely observe that Mars* was in almost exact
mundane sextile to the midheaven, which denoted scientific acute-
ness and scientific honours. This Partridge seems to have over-
looked.
The system which Partridge pursued in computing his arcs of di-
rection, we are assured was correct, as he has amply developed in
# It is singular that this is the exact position of Mars in the nativity of Mer-
linus Anglicus, Jun. Sec page 435.
552 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
various parts of his inimitable volumes, but his tables must haw
been decidedly, erroneous, for, when calculated either by trigono-
metry, or by the zodiacal planisphere, the following is the train of
directions :-—
-
Arc. Yr. Mth.
*0 ad Aldebaran cum lat 45 35 46 3
© ad a £ mundo. d. d 46 55 47 7
ad 5 T? in the zod. cum lat 47 50 48 7 > «
ad ^ T? in zodiaco, sine lat 49 40 50 5 »
*0 ad Aldebaran sine lat 51 20 52 1
ad n T? mundo converse 55 30 56 4
There is a wide difference between the train of directions here
given, and those said by the former author to bo in force, and any
one who possess a planisphere, or who is acquainted with theplacidian
method of directions, (which Partridge followed) will be enabled to
prove that I am correct in my calculations. The directions which are
thus marked *, I cannot allow to have any force in nativities, nor
jndeed any directions at all to the fixed stars; for, as far as my ex-
perience leads me, they have no effect in a geniture. It is indeed
very strange, that at the period which Partridge points out death to
have occurred, he gives the fatal arc to be the © directed to aldeba-
ran in the zodiac ! Now in the computation I have given, it will be
seen that the sun came to a conjunction of saturn, both
in the zodiac and in the world, two very strong and powerful
directions, and which, considering the part of the zodiac where itfelly*
in conjunction with Aldebaran, andfree from the rays of the fortunes,
most certainly destroyed life ; and thus far does the modem system,
by the use of the planisphere, exceed even the computations of the
learned and laborious Partridge, the greatest of our English astrolo-
gers. R. C. S.
* Although I deny the influence of the fixed stars as promittors, yet I allow
them ample efficacy in the zodiacal sphere of their irradiations^
553
CIRCLE X.—SECT. II.
$intg to Ststrologeis;
;
BV THE MERCURZI.
1. Tne Hyleg.
There has been much controversy upon the subject of the hyleg,
or giver of life. Some have attributed it to the luminaries alone,
some to the horoscope, and the author of the Astrological Dictionary
thinks the moon is always hyleg.
The subject has occasioned us much studious inquiry, and it ap-
pears that the moon has really no aphetical influence out of the
kylcrjiacal places assigned by Ptolemy; (namely, the 1st, 7th, 9th,
10th, and half of the 11th house.) But in the course of this inquiry
we have been led almost to believe that the sun in the first half of
the 9th house, i. e. from the cusp of the ninth to midway beyond
the cusp, is not the true hyleg. The editor has one instance in par-
ticular of a gentleman born May 2nd, 1781, 2 h. p.m» lat 51 32',
in whose geniturc the sun was in the Gth house, and, according to
Ptolemy, the true hyleg ; but the sun came to the <? of |? both in
zodiac and mundo, in the 42d year (Naybod's measure) and the
native was not in the least affected in his health, neither for two years
before or after, although he had losses in business.—Query, what
cause could be assigned for this—And why should not the directions
have produced illness ?
2. Directions of the Seven Planets.
Partridge, in his " Defectio Geniturarum," directs the lords of the
ascendant, Mercury and Venus, to proraittors, as well as the lumin-
aries. The truth of this system could be soon'proved by experience,
were every student to direct the planets in his own nativity. If
554 THB ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY,
certain planets, such as Mercury for instance, rule the intellectual
faculties, and other, as Venus, are general significators of pleasure,
it would be difficult to prove why they should not be allowed to
point out the periods of events which they partly signify.
3. Measures of Time in Directions.
The measure of Valentine Naybod is now generally esteemed the
most correct as to the computation of astronomical arcs. Some
artists still use the placidian measure. We are perfectly convinced
that theformer measure is the true one. Let the student, however,
bring up the different directions in a nativity, both ways, compare
them with each, and he will soon see which is correct. This is the
t
only way to prove it, and can easily be done.
4. Transits.
In Transits the greatest effect will be produced, when the pla-
nets turn retrograde, for experience proves their force at this period
to be much stronger than when direct. For instance, Mercury is very
powerful when retrograde, and never fails to give extraordinary
abilities. Saturn retrograde is strong to evil; Jupiter more powerful
to good, in every horoscope.
5. Primary Lunar Directions.
It is found by experience that the zodiacal directions which the
moon forms, are efficacious two ways, namely, in the zodiac with
and without latitude. But sometimes it so happens, that the paral-
lel of declination, when she has great latitude in the tropical signs,
will cause an evil or a good direction to have little effect. This
should always be considered.
6. Rectification of a Nativity.
Experience proves that neither the truitine of Hermes, the ani-
modar of Ptolemy, nor any other method (for we have tried them
ASTROLOGICAL FRAGMENTS. 555
all), exqcpt accidents that have occurred, can be made use of for
rectifying a nativity. And of these, the angles alone can be used, so
that it is a very difficult matter to rightly correct the estimate time
of a nativity, and yet, without it, little can be done*
7. Ttie New Planets.
Ceres, Pallas, Juno, and Vesta, have very small power in di-
rections, so that their discovery does not invalidate the old system,
But Ihrschel is very powerful and efficacious, chiefly to evil. Yet
sometimes his trines are good, especially for public notice.
CIRCLE X.—SECT. III.
$o0ttton0 of tje ©laneta at tfte great &ive in
£iteijfteiii Street
June 2]st, 1825, the Planets were thus posited:
29 n 43 | j) 3 rrji 37 | T? 13 n 48 | % 12 si 33 | $ 22 n 55
$ 22 b 25 | 2 10 n 22 |
# 18 \tf 50
There can scarcely be a greater proof of astrology than the agree-
ment between the planetary causes and the disastrous effect pro-
duced therefrom, as exemplified in the rules laid down at page 16#,
and 176. But it must be remembered, that at the time J? was in
sextile to %, Hence the ample remuneration the sufferers received
from the generous subscription set on foot for their behalf.
Ttie Square of Mercury and Saturn.
As a proof of mundane Astrology, and the influence of the pla-
nets in general, over sublunary affairs, we need only mention the
remarkable and atrocious events which have occupied the public
attention, since the 16th of August, 1825. Mercury, it will be re-
membered, rules all kinds of public reports, and Saturn is the au-
thor of all that is base and vile. Hence the real cause of the shame-
ful exposures relative to certain individuals, the irritableness of cer-
tain magistrates, and last, not least, the scarceness of money at the
556 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
emporiums of commerce, the stock exchange, &c, he. Mercury
turns retrograde, September 2nd, and about the 17th September
again comes to a quartile of the same planet. This will, no doubt,
produce evil events, and the month of September, 1825^will be noted
for evil, mischance, and loss of money amongst speculators, the death
of some eminent person in the arts or sciences may be' expected, and
finally, all who adventure their cash, at this period, will repent it m
Many scandalous, scurrilous, and odious reports will be in circula-
tion, and it will be well if the mischief stops here. —August, 1825.
The year 1826, presents to astrologers, a singular phenomenon :
the planet Mars is retrograde for nearly four months, and continues
in the sign Scorpio, from the middle of January to the end of August/
The Philosopher's Stone.
" It may not be generally known, that there are, at this present
day, at least one hundred persons in the city of London, who are
spending their time and property in pursuit of the philosopher's
stone. We have heard the names of several men of literature and
science who are devoting themselves to this extraordinary laby-
rinth, they should go to study in the Bodleian at Oxford, where
there are 5000 works on alchemy."—Sunday Times, Aug. 14, 1825.
It is needless to remark, how much the study of astrology would
lead to understand these mystical authors, who were all astrologers.
—Ed.
CIRCLE X.—SECT. IV,
CURIOUS EXPERIMENTS.
SI Cotttfc to cure tfie Jfteatrari&r**
If the pain be on the right side of the head, make a comb out
of the right horn of a ram, and if the head be combed therewith it
will take away the pain.
But if the pain be on the left side of the head, then make a comb
out of the left horn of a ram, and if the head be combed therewith
it will stop the pain.
* Vide Lupton's " Thousand Notable Things."
ASTROLOGICAL FRAGMENTS. 557
Co matte a Cm fccar ,-ffruit,
«• The &ecds of roses, with mustard -seed, and the foot of a weasel,
tied together in something, and hung among the boughs or branches
of a tree which bears but little fruit, will remedy the defect, and
render the tree amazingly fruitful.*'
Co fjin&cr from tlje *5tte of a fftatr Dog,
11
The tooth of a mad dog, which has bitten any human person,
tied in leather, and then hanged at the shoulder, doth preserve and
keep the wearer from being bitten of any mad dog, so long as he
wears it.*'
CIRCLE X.—SECT. V.
A FEW QUERIES TO SCEPTICS,
BY THE MBRCURXI.
After the able manner in which the science of the stars has
been developed in the foregoing parts of this volume, and the lumi-
nous convincing examples which certainly must astonish the most
sceptical, it is to be presumed, that in future, no sage lexicographer,
or encyclopediast, will attempt to re-echo the cry of astrology
being a vain art (as formerly has been the case), but will proceed,
first of all, to give an illustration of its fundamental principles ; by
which means the public will soon be enabled to judge of its verity
as well as by our writings. If, however, this is not attended to,
and some author, wise in his own conceit, should take up the cud-
gels against our system, we would be obliged by his first answering
the following queries :—
1. Could the delusion of astrology, as it is termed, have lasted as
long as it has (for, according to Josephus the historian, and other
old authors, it is older than the bible,) had not there been some truth
therein ?—And if so should not this truth be sought after ?
2. Have any of its adversaries cast their own nativities, by the ge-
nuine rules of art, and have they proved the art fallacious ?—Or do
they, like old women in general, judge from mere hearsay?—If so,
are they to be credited by thinking persons ?
558 THE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. .
3. Can any one explode a science withoutfirst learning it f
4. Were not the first lawgivers) the first poets, the first priests,
and the first philosophers—Astrologers ?
5. If the astrologer measures by mathematical principles, the va-
rious arcs of direction, in a nativity, and can prove his problems
correct, according to astronomical science, is not this at any rate
a proof that astrology is a branch of the mathematics.—And, leaving
his prognostications out of the question, is he not entitled to praise,
for his merit as an astronomer ?
6. If phrenology be a useful science, as it is undoubtedly a curious
one, why should not astrology be still more useful ? for the one for-
tells what is, the other what is to come ! And why should the law
allow persons to practise phrenology publicly, and not astrology ? the
answer will probably be, because of imposition.—-But, it must be re-
collected, truth will always be sought after, and any astrologerfound
deficient in his art would soon be deserted,
7. And lastly, if the rules laid down in this volume for calculat-
ing, fires, disasters, and public calamities, have been verified for
upwards of a century, which, any one who consults an ephemeris
and a chronology may prove, and if this can be proved, is not this
an argument that astrology is at least an amusing science, and that the
chances are greatly in its favour?
CIRCLE X.—SECT. VI.
SINGULAR PROOFS THAT FLAMSTEAD WAS AN
ASTROLOGER.
"On the 10th of August, 1675, the foundation stone of the Royal
Observatory, for watching and noting the motions of the celestial
bodies, was laid on the hill where it now stands, in Greenwich Park.
The edifice was erected by order of King Charles II., at the instance
of Sir Jonas Moor, under the direction of Sir Christopher Wren
;
and it is worthy of record here, that the celebrated Flamstead con-
structed a " Scheme of the Heavens," at the very minute when the
ASTROLOGICAL FRAGMENTS. 559
foundation stone was laid. It has never appeared in any work, and
as the public are wholly unacquainted with its existence, it is sub-
joined exactly as Flamstead drew it with his own hand.
ILLUSTRATION, No. XC.
f — «S "" *~* Kr
Auo. lOd. 03h. 14m.
1675, P. M.
Lat. 51 Q 28' 10".
Observatorii fund,
posita. ab. J. F.
X Oi<°^
X^ «0 ^
^x °
& rSX
XrpA*
x/ Kl
(i
Few men rightly temper with the stars."
—
Shakspeare.
" Flamstead was the first astronomer-royal, and from him the Ob-
servatory at Greenwich derives its popular name, ' Flamstead-house.'
His (
Scheme of the Heavens,'' may be found there in a folio vellum-
bound manuscript on the second page. Opposite to it, also drawn
by himself, with great exactness, and signed by his own name with-
in it, is a ground plan of the Observatory. On the following, being
the fourth page, is a list of (
angles, betwixt eminent places ob-
served with the sextant in the months of February and March, 1679,
80.' The remainder of the book consists of about one hundred and
seventy pages of ' Observations,' also in Flamstead's hand-writing.
Whatever astrological judgment he may have exercised upon the po-
sitions of the stars in his horoscope, he has not left his opinion in
writing ; but the circumstance of his having been at some pains to as-
certain and set them down among his other * Observations,' may be
takenas presumptive that this great astronomer practised ASTROLOGY."
—Hone's Every Day Book.
THE ASTHOLOOER OF THE NINETEENTH CESflJRY.
AN EXTRAORDINARY MAGICAL NARRATIVE.
The following tale we have extracted from an excellent publication, called
" Legends qf Terror." It is from the pen of Captain L. Forster, a French officer,
during the sway of Napoleon.
" It was in the year 1811, during the march from Hamburgh to Stralsnnd, that
we were one evening quartered at an ancient castle, and the conversation turned
upon hunting and shooting, which at last led to a discussion of the secret arts of
gamekeepers, and at length to the following narrative, with which, on account of
« its horrible singularity' I was particularly struck.
" < Ulrick, the servant of Lieutenant B. who was born in the Duchy of Gotha,
and had associated much with gamekeepers, began as follows :
—* Yes, captain,
you may think as you please about it, but gamekeepers are up to things that are
really astonishing. With a Mr. C. head forester at Fr—th, there lived an old
gamekeeper, who had to all appearance on ordinary gun, with which he never
used anything but ball, whether he was firing at hares, birds, or any other sort of
game, and he was never known to miss, even at distances exceeding by twice or
thrice the usual range qf such a pie&3 j but this was not done fairly, for it is cer-
tain Old Nick had a hand in it/ Wo laughed; ' Laugh as you please,
1
said
Ulrick, * tbtill it is positively true. You shall hear. One evening wo were sitting
together ; the old man I am speaking of, several young keepers, and Charles,
the son of the forester. We were talking of the old man's gun, on which he ob-
served, that what we had hitherto seen was nothing to what he could do ; adding,
that he would immediately fire out of the window, if we would first decide in
what part of the country he should shoot apiece of game, and what kind of game it
should be This appeared incredible, but we mentioned a spot in the forest,
about a milefrom the house, and desired him to shoot a fox there. He fired out
of the window, and we repaired to the spot specified, and there, sure enough, we
found afox that had just been shot. The forester's son was very curious to know
by what means this was done, and the old man promised to teach him, if he had
courage to learn it; but he desisted at the decisive moment, frightened by terrible
apparitions.' ' Well,' said I,
f
but Charles, I suppose, told you in what way to
set about it.' * O yes,' said he, * you must gain possession of a host already
consecrated for the holy communion. With this, and a Efun loaded with ball,
you repair, on the night of Christinas Eve, to the forest, nail the host to a tree,
go back a little distance from it, and, with a loud voice, renounce the belief in the
blessed Trinity. Hereupon you fire at the host, and this done, you will find upon
it three drops of blood; these you wipe off with paper, and then' make a hole in
any part of the stock of the gun, put the paper in, and close it up again. When
all these ceremonies have been performed, every ball firedfrom this piece is sure to
hit whatever the owner pleases.
1
" I expressed my surprise that any one could believe such absurd stuff, but
Chick persisted in his assertion that it was true. * For,' continued he, « Charles
contrived to procure a host, and went out into the forest with the old man, on the
ni ,rht of Christmas Eve. According to his direction he nailed the host to a tree,
and repeated the oath of abjuration, but when he took the aim to shoot, the trees
were gone, and he saw our Saviour nailed to the cross, and innumerable frightful
infernal shapes dancing about him, on which he threw down his gun, and ran aivay?
"
Captain Forster declares, that he at first considered this tale as a fiction, but
some time afterwards he joined the battalion where Charles, * the young forester'
before mentioned, was a serjeant. After some conversation with him, the cap-
tain related what he had heard, and was struck with astonishment at finding
him mention every circumstance in nearly the same words, and he persisted in
the authenticity of the statement.
• PIKIS.
Davidson, Printer, Scrlc's Plate, London.
INC EX.
A.
Page.
Awful appearance of an evil spirit 71
Awful apparition raised by Schrep-
fer U2
Adventures of the astrologer on the
southern coast of England 152
Astrological omens of the Anglo-
Saxon dynasty 159
Astley's Theatre, destruction of, .. 167
Amphion, man of war, 168
Aspects of certain fires 171
Angelical world, epitome of, 240
Astrology, a complete illustration of 246
, principles upon which it
is founded 248
Arguments concerning starry influ-
ence, drawn from the Tides .... 255
Application of facts concerning the
tides to astrology 256
A distinction, necessary to be ob-
served by astrologers 258
Aspects, of the 265
Aries, signification of 273
Aquaries, the sign c 280
Art of trigonometrical calculations 360
Astrological fragments, by the Prin-
cess of Cumberland 378
Astrologer, singular prediction of 384
Almanack, the prophetic 395
Astrological causes of a dreadful
storm 399
Art of casting celestial lots 461
Arctic Expedition, predictions rela-
tive to 486
Ancient Danish Calendar 501
Anecdotes of the dead 516
Apparition to Mr. Graham 52
1
to Mr. Mulready, R. A. 522
Appearance of an evil spirit 523
Apparition at Leigh Court House . . 524
A curious old astrologer 526
Apparition to Mrs. Sarah Smith . . 530
Attempt to raise spirits 531
Astrologers; hints to, bytheMercurii 553
Awful apparition to Lord Lyttelton 546
B.
Bonaparte consulted omens . ,. . 9 I2X
Bel and the dragon 133
Bonds of spirits , .... 195
Babylonian astrologer e 200
Biquintile aspect 267
Bite of a mad dog to hinder 5.57
Page.
Chronicle of celestial influence .... 128
Candid survey of events 146
Counsellor French 149
Comparison of certain configurations 150
Climacterial years of a person's life 160
Custom House of London 173
Constellation of the southern cross 181
Charm against furious beasts 197
against trouble ib.
against enemies
against fire and water
198
ib.
Cabalistical words 199
Circle for raising the spirit Egin . . 214
for raising Oberion 222
Choice astrological secrets 272
Celestial signs, signification of ... . 273
Cancer, the sign and signification of 275
Capricorn, its significations 279
Children, of 337
Cambyses, prediction to 398
Coronation aspect, calculated .... 410
Curious experiments 556
Comb to cure the headache ib.
D.
Der Frieschutz, the tale 62
Drury Lane Theatre 172
Dragon's head and tail 287
Death, signs of 323
violent, signs of 324
manner of 325
Directions, secondary 346
Diseases, a charm against 505
Directions of the seven planets .... 553
E.
Extraordinary instance of a compre-
hensive memory 143
England, rage of infidelity in .... 147
Egin, king of the north, to invocate
or raise 214
form of his appearance 217
Extracts from the translation of
Ruben's famous Latin MSS 232
from the MSS. of Dr. John
Pordage , •.
240
Explanation of technical terms used
in astrology 288
Erect a figure, directions to 293
Extraordinary and fatal dreams 404, 405
Examples in geomancy 474
Electruni magicum, to make 510
— use of 511
JNDLX.
Extraordinary incantation 52*<
Extraordinary impulse 531
Extraordinary magical narrative . . 560
P.
Fire, at Birmingham 174
at Edinburgh , 175
Fires, two prodigious 177
Figure of the horoscope 292
Female nativity, of marriage 336
Fixed stars, significations of 343
Figure for Harris's Ascent 357
for Sadler's ascent 358
• for Graham's ascent ...... 359
Flood in England 372
dreadful account of 373
devastation of, in the west of
England 374
effects of, in Norfolk ,
.
375
astrological signs of 376
French Revolution predicted 401
Figure of geomancy to divine by .. 469
Figures the sixteen, described.... ib.
Figure for the Spital-field weavers 474
for Queen Caroline 476
for the coronation 477
for the end of 1824 478
for Charles X 479
for the lion-fight 480
• for the autumnal quarter .. 481
from Chaucer's MSS. . . 482, 485
for the Arctic expedition .
.
487
for an accident 488
for Thwtell, the murderer.
.
485
Fatal dream 527
Fire in Titchfield Street , 555
Flamstead an astrologer 558
G.
Gemini, signification of 274
Georgium Sidus, properties, &c, of
Geomancy, a synopsis of 401
H.
Herbs, magical virtues of 196
Horary Questions, art of 352
time of receiving 354
——» to resolve 354
Hieroglyphical prediction by Ra-
phael 400
Ilyleg directed for death in Lord
Byron's nativity 425
, the, 553
I.
Invocation of spirits, a fragment .. 182
Intelligences and spirits 186
Incantations to bind the ground .
,
215
to invoke the spirit
Egin 217
Jupiter, the planet 2S2
Page
Issue, aphorisms fot determining .. 337
——, aphorisms for showing death of ib.
Jews, destruction of 402
K.
King and Queen of the Sandwich
Isles 137
King Geo. 4. nativity of 407
L.
Lisbon, earthquake at .....,..,. 179
License to discharge spirits 226
Leo, its significations 276
Libra, its significations .......... 277
Lilly, prediction of 298
Life, 6igns of, and if long or short.
.
324
Lamps of the ancients 513
Lunar directions ..,,..... 554
M.
Magic dice, the , 85
Midnight storm, the 119
Magic ceremonies, charms, and in-
cantations 185
Mysterious writing 194
Pdethod of raising spirits 209
invocating the dead .... 227
Meteorological table 270
Mars, the planet 283
Moon, the 284
Mercury, the planet 286
Marriage, of 331
, testimonies of ,
332
, time of ib.
Mary, the violent 370
Method of castiug celestial lots.. . 464
Magical candle, the 493
Magic torch of serpents ib.
of flies 494
Magical oil of grapes ib
.
Magic bell 512
Mercuriana 549
Measure of time, in directions .... 554
N.
Necromancer, the 1 to 61
Names of spirits 189
Necromantic art, the 229
Necromantic spell , ib.
Nostradamus, prophecies by .. 369,372.
—, commentary on 369
Notices and predictions by Raphael 397
Nativities, original, by Raphael . . 406
Nativity of King George IV 407
of His Royal Highness the
Duke of York 412
• of the Duke of Clarence .. 414
of the late Queen Caroline 415
of the Princess Clarence . . 418
of the Due de Bordeaux .. 420
of Lord Byron 422
of the Pretender 428
NDEX
Page
Nativity of George Bidder 430
of Mr. John Varky 432
of the editor 435
of the aeronaut Harris .... 437
of the aeronaut Graham .
.
439
of J. English, astrologer .. 444
-of Mr. Muss 447
•—» of Harriette Wilson 449
of a military officer 451
of a child 455
Natural Magic 490
Nativity of Vincent Wing ........ 550
New planets 555
O.
Omens of Byron's death 132
On the fashion of medicine 144
Opera House, fire at 177
On the motion of the fixed stars .
.
213
Observations relative to the practice
of astrology , 260
Operation of the twelve houses 310
Of the duration of life 323
On the part of fortune 348
On calculating do 349
Oliver Cromwell 377
Observations on a prophecy 393
Original fragments relative to appa-
ritions 511
Omens of death 522
Ominous dream 523
P.
Pisces, the sign 280
Primary directions 342
Part of fortune 348
to calculate 349
Planisphere, the zodiacal 350
Planetary dignities 355
Predictions by the Roval Merlin .
.
385
Prophetic fable by do". , 387
Prophetic observations by do 389
Prophetic recollections by do 390
Prediction of Raphael, the astrologer 391
Prophecy of serious import 392
Partridge, extracts from 649
Philosopher's stone 556
Q.
Quotation of singular merit 178
Quintile aspect , . . .
.
266
Quality of tlie profession 338
Queries to sceptics 557
R.
Retrospective view of events ...... 1 C4
Rules of Saturn and Mars 326
Rank, the fortune of 329
Page.
Revolutions, on . . 352
Religious tenets of the ancient Bri-
tons 37 5
Raphael, the painter 377
, the astrologer, prediction by 391
Rectification of a nativity 554
S.
Spectre wife, the , 77
Signs under which Harris, the aero-
naut, ascended 130
relative to the Sandwich Is-
landers 139
Saturn, observations on 140
, precautions relative to ...
.
141
Signs which prevailed over the death of
several illustrious persons 161
attending the coronation .... 1 65
of remarkable fires 167
St. Paul's, destruction of 168
Spots on the sun 1 84
Spirits, appearances of 201
of Saturn 204
of the Sun ib.
of the Moon 205
of Mars 206
of Mercury 207
of Jupiter 208
. of Venus 209
Solar system discussed 251
Semisextile aspect 265
Semiquadrate do ib.
Sesquiquadrate do 266
Scoipio, significations of 278
Sagittarius, its significations ib.
Saturn, his properties 281
Sun, the 287
Scotch seer 403
Singular properties of natural magic 490
Sleep of plants 508
Supernatural noises and omens of
death 532
Spirits and demons, extracts on .
.
535
Square of Mercury and Saturn .... 555
T.
The strange gentleman 153
The smuggler's wife 155
The alien 156
Tne spirit Oricns 201
Paymon 202
Egin ib.
Amaymon ib.
The planetary spirits 203
To raise an evil spirit 212
the spirit Egin 217
Obcrion 220
The great and powerful incantation 223
INDEX.
Page.
To raise the spirit of a suicide .... 230
The twelve signs and divisions .... 262
Table of the essential dignities .... 268
the orbs of the planets .... 269
fortitudes and debilities . . 271
the quarters of heaven .... ib.
Taurus, signification of 274
Tables of houses 299 to 304
for finding the moon's motion 305
Twelve houses of heaven defined *. 315
Table of the fixed stars 319
Transits 345
Table of the l6geomantic figures.. 463
Talismans 495
Talisman for destroying reptiles .. 497
against enemies 498
for love 499
» for war and battle 500
Thieves, a charm against 504
Talismanic effects of the moon .... 515
Terrific legends 516
The tapestry legend 534
Transits, on 554
Tree, to make bear fruit 557
Page.
V.
Valmondi, the tale of 72
Vast destruction at Liverpool .... 169
Voice, extraordinary 193
Virgo, the sign 276
Venus, the planet 285
Vision, in a dream 396
Unguent, the famous 507
Urim and Thummim 509
W.
Wealth, the fortune of 327
Wives, number of 333
good or bad fortune of .... 334
Wife, from whence procured ib.
agreement with 335
Wonderful prophecies 369
Walter, Earl of Athol 402
Warnings, extraordinary 404
Warning of death 405
Wonderful charms, talismans, and
secrets 490
Wonderful ointment 507
