{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1825__anonymous___exhibition_of_the_zodiac_of_dendera.pdf","mytitle":"Exhibition Of The Zodiac Of Dendera","mylang":"de"}
v - I g, a}? A. 25“
EXHIBITION,
47, LEICESTER SQUARE.
ZODIAC 0F DENDERA.
' 1/;
RP I 'l‘ O M E
OF TIIE CELEBRATE“
SCULPTURED ZODIAC OF DENDERA,’
SO FAMOUS IN
EGYPTIAN ‘ANTIQ‘UITY,
.
¢..-..m-“‘
-:
u
‘L-“I-N-
- ‘
On which it is cmy'ectured the present system of Astronomy was foumlcrl.
’9
u
i
L O N D O N :
PRINTED BY J. mnnox, CASTLE STREET, FINSBURY. ;§$"'¢5':;.5',5'.\;
1825: ‘
PRICE SIXPENCE. -
“9?”:
p
l.
0".
III
Iaﬂwi.
I’
4‘“.
.b..-
1----A
“.3.
l;
CURSORY REMARKS
ON
THE ZODIAC OF DENDERA.
As a more ample publication respecting this extraordinary
relique of antiquity is now in the Press, and will soon be
ready for publication, the present cursory review of this
subject is deemed sufﬁcient for the purposes of the pre
sent exhibition.
The city of Deudera, formerly called Tentyra, or Ten
tyris, stood near the Cataracts of the Nile, on the boundary
of the Desert, upon one of the Lybian Mountains, the base
of which is watered by the overﬂowings of the Nile at
the periods of its inundations. The existing city is not
more than twenty minutes walk from the ancient ruins, and
is called Berbe, a word equally applied to all vestiges of
antiquity, by the inhabitants.
Deudera is particularly mentioned by Pliny, Strabo,
Seneca, and many other ancient writers, while Bruce,
referring to those magniﬁcent ruins, says, " That monument
creates a most singular and imposing effect, when ﬁrst exa
mined, but the impression produced is similar to that we
experience on contemplating avery lofty mountain, of which
we preserve but a confused idea.”
B 3
6
In 1799, when the French proceeded up the Nile, for
the purpose of penetrating into Upper Egypt, under the
command of General Desaix, they arrived at the ruins of
Dendera, on which occasion, says that General, the
emotion produced throughout the army under my command
was so extraordinary, that the whole force stood speech
less, penetrated by one pervading sentiment of awe and
admiration.
It was during the examination of those stupendous ruins
that the virtuous and gallant Desaix discovered the circular
Zodiac, which now forms so conspicuous a ﬁgure in the
cabinet of antiques in the Royal Library at Paris. As
from the period of the ﬁrst discovery of the Planisphere,
no idea existed of its removal to Europe, Bonaparte, on
returning to France, from Egypt, felt desirous that a fac
simile of that monument should be preserved, for which pur
pose M. J. J. Castex, of Toulouse, who had accompanied
the Egyptian expedition and procured a model on the spot,
rxecuted this beautiful work in Carrara marble, which was
completed in 18K).
7 After passing the grand entrance of the temple of Den
dera, which is imposing beyond description, appears the
great portico, presenting an entablature elevated sixty feet
from the ground, and supported by six colossal statues,
representing the divinity Isis. The exterior as well as the
interior of the walls are ornamented by sculptures of their
hill heights, and all the pillars present similar carvings,
that were originally coloured, as numerous specimens
still remain, the painting of which has not been obliterated
by the lapse of reVolving ages.
7
One'of the Zodiacs is placed beneath the portico, and
jsculptured on the lateral side, air; of the signs appearing on
a ﬁllet that projects from the temple, headed by the sign
of the lion, while the remaining six are sculptured on a
parallel ﬁllet entering the temple; so that the twelve signs,
as delineated on that Zodiac, together with an immense
number of emblematical ﬁgures, form a long procession of
variegated objects,
On the terrace of the temple is a pavillion, consisting
pf three small chambers, in one of which was placed the
original Zodiac, from whence the present sculpture was
icxecuted, forming part of the ceiling.
It was M. Saulnier who“ ﬁrst conceived an idea of the
_possibility of detaching the original Planisphere from the
place it had occupied for so many centuries in the apart
ment at Dendera. Circumstances intervening to impede
_that gentleman’s undertaking the labour in person, he as
sociated himself with M. Lelorrain, who, in 1820, repaired
to Egypt, and after immense labour and diﬂiculty, effected
the removal of the monument in question. Some time sub
. sequentto the arrival of the Planisphere in France it was pur
chased by Louis XVIII. for the sum of 150,000 francs, about
£6500 sterling, and after being publicly exposed for a time at
the Louvre, was ultimately consigned to the place it now
occupies in the Public Library at Paris. Being thus in pos
session of the original Zodiac, the French Government
declined ratifying the agreement previously entered into by
Bonaparte for the purchase of M. Castex’s sculpture, who,
nevertheless, proceeded to ﬁnish his labour, soonyafter the
.termination of which he died. A spirited English specu
‘lator then presented himself as purchaser of this unique and
B 3
8
beautiful copy of the Dendera. Monument, in order that
it mig‘htbeoome'the preperty of the British nation, should
Government think ﬁt to purchase the 'same, or else fall into
the hands of some "private individual, being a unique gem
worthy to grace the ﬁrst Collection in this or any other
country;
Few monuments of antiquity have created so much noise
in the scientiﬁc world as the circular Zodiac of Dendara;
volumes, pamphlets, and countless memoirs, have issued
from the French press on that interesting subject, of which
we shall proceed to quote some of the most prominent.
M. Dupuis, in a Memoire that appeared in 1806, pretends
that the Planisphere was coeval with the date of the re
newal of the solstitial period, making its antiquity refer back
to thirteen thousand years anterior to the present time.
M. Viscouti, in opposition to the last-mentioned writer,
conceives that the Zodiac 'Was a work of the Greeks, and
that it represents the sphere as laid down by Eudoxus and
Aratus only, thirteen hundred years prior to the vulgar era.
This disSirnilarity of opinion gave rise to various pamphlets, i
wherein those gentlemen strenuously supported their re
spective assertions with that deep’learning and acumen
which might naturally be expected ~from such consummate
talents. '
M. Abbe de Halma, another opponent of M. Dupuis, dis
played great warmth in his arguments, being, as an ec
clesiastie, particularly incensed at the idea of the attack
‘thus levelled by the latter gentleman at the Mosaic tradition
of the creation of the world. He then proceeds to show
9
that the Planisphere must have been sculptured subsequent
to'the year 364 of the Christian Era, but with little ap
pearance of truth, as in order to allow the feasibilityof
his arguments, we must admit, as .facts, the premises on
which be grounds his hypothesis, whereas no such proofs
are adduced.
In his vindictive rage, the Abbe Halma calls the Plani
sphere a nasty black stone, while he laments it was ever
conveyed to France, as on that account so much admiration
has been excited for the reliques of Egypt, which, accord
ing to that Writer, present no one object worthy of imi
tation, while the study of Greek and Roman antiquities is,
in consequence, completely abandoned.
In 1822, Ill. St. Martin read a disquisition to the Aea- ‘
demy of Inscriptions and Belles Lettres, in the course of
which he endeavoured to show that the Sign of the Balance
was an invention of the Egyptians, only 1200 years before
Christ; that they placed that Constellation in the part of
the heavens previously occupied by the claws of Scorpio,
and that consequently the Balance being delineatedon the
Planisphere it could not date antecedent to the above period.
These arguments, however, of BI. St. Martin, with others
who endeavoured to show that the Balance was invented to
complimentAugustus, were completely refuted by MlDupiu,
who, in a most elaborate work on the origin of the
Constellations, proves, to demonstration, the remote
antiquity of the sign of the Balance found in Egyptianand
Indian monuments; _while to invalidate the idea of the
Balance being introduced in the Augustan age,._Tarrutins
Firmanus predicted the future glory of Rome, in conse
quence of its having been founded when the Moon was in
the sign of the Balance.
10
5 ' M Biot, another literary gentleman, who entered the lists,
concluded, from his observations on several of the leading
objects delineated on the Zodiac, that it referred to the
year 716 before Christ. \
M. Champollion, the younger, asserts that the Planisphere
is not a monument of Astronomy, but refers to judicial
Astrology, and that an object of Egyptian worship has,
therefore, been misconstrued as an Astronomical sign.
In the arguments of M Franr-aaur, who supports the
antiquity of the Zodiac, he arraigns the opinions published
by JV. Visconti, stating that the Greeks were unacquainled
with hieroglyphic symbols, and that consequently it was
impossible they should have covered thousands of square
feet with sculptured characters of that description. He
moreoverlstates, that the Zodiacs of Dendara bear no
similitude to those of the modems, and that the “Greek
Sagittarius, as in the Planisphere, is neither winged, nor
does it display twofaces, &c. &c.
M Jomard, who combats the opinion of M. Biot,
respecting the Zodiac being a developement of the celestial
spheres, concludes by inclining towards a belief of the
remote antiquity of the sculpture, and adds, that it would
be extremely difﬁcult to support the opinions of M. Viscomi
in regard to its Greek origin.
M. Le Prince is of opinion that the Planisphere repre
sents the heavenly bodies as they appeared to the natives
.of Egypt, eight centuries prior to our aara, when the solstitial
-colure divided Cancer in the middle.
11
M. de Paraoey after endeavouring to refute the calcula
tions of M'. Biot, and the system of priy'ection indicated
by M. Delambre, conceives that the Dendera Zodiac pre
sents only the plan laid down by Hipparchus, the same .as
appears ﬁgured on the Farnesian Globe.
DI. Alexander Lenoir considers the monument of Dew- I
derah a calendar, wherein are traced the solar, rural, and
civil or religious years, and ascribes to it no greater an
tiquity than the age of Bocchorus, who reigned over Egypt
about '770 years previous to our aera.
Independent of the above Gentlemen, many learned
foreigners have also occupied their attention on the subject
of the Dendera Planisphere, and in particular, M. L’Abbe
Testa, as well as M. Sickler, who inserted a learned
dissertation in the Algemein Litteratur of Halle.
SUMMARY.
7 After the numerous disquisitions that have appeared, the
general opinion entertained by the Savans of Paris con“
cerning the Circular Zodiac of Dendera, is, that the
monuments of antiquity in Egypt present three stages of
[2
Architecture. The ﬁrst, and most ancient being apparent
in the ruins of the palaces of KGTMC, Luxor, Medinet
Abou, and Thebes, with the temples of Isamboul, Derhi,
Amado, and Girsghi, in Nubia, wherein are sculptures
which, by means of the Phonetic Alphabet 0f Hieroglyphics,
are found to contain the names of the earliest kings of
Egypt. The next remains are those of Dakhi, Calabschi,
Ombos, and Etfu, belonging to the second period of
Egyptian Art, which display names of the Grecian Kings
and Queens who reigned while Egypt continued under the
dominion of the Greeks, and lastly, the ruins of ediﬁces
erected during the sovereignty of the Roman Emperors,
among which is ranked the Temple of Dendera, supposed
to have been built under the reigns of Tiberius, Claudius,
Nero, and Domitian. ‘Vithout seeking to annex to that
magniﬁcant ruin the high antiquity ascribed to it by M.
Dupius and others, we cannot, however, refrain from stating
thatthis general belief entertained on the part iof the French,
does not appear by any means conclusive. Under the
dominion of the Emperors above speciﬁed, there existed so
many historians—and the most triﬂing events are so mi
nutely recorded, that it appears not merely improbable, but
almost impossible, a structure of such immense magnitude
as the Temple of Dendera, and which must necessarily
have occupied so much time in the building, should have
remained unnoticed by all the writers who ﬂourished during
the progress of its completion. As the present is intended
for a mere outline of the numerous statements elicited by
the leading men of science respecting the subject in question,
and as the limits of this pamphlet do not enable us to
extend the subject matter, we refer the curious and critical
enquirer to the volume that will very shortly appear, accom
panied by a view of the entrance of the temple, and a fee
“v-nlllI-twi
-4-_'"~‘
"‘
"ww'ﬂﬂ'
“
.._
-_--
v-
“u-s-
4'"--'
“nu-w
>4-
-‘
n.3,)
-
13
simile of the Zodiac, wherein the arguments on all sides are
more enlarged upon, accompanied by additional statements,
that may tend perhaps to throw some new lights on the
subject of the Zodiac of Dendera.
Printed by J. Huddon, Cnitle Street, Finrbury.
