{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 4911","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n66_jan_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N66 January 1890","mylang":"de"}
No. LXVI.-YoL. IV. JANUARY, 1800.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Associates .. . •
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. . .
Rxper,ments with Madame B.ln September, 18EO
RxperimentB in Apparent l:la.irvoyance .. .,
CaBes received by the Literary Committee
Correspondence .. . . . . . . . .
NEW ASSOCIATES.
PAGE
.. 185
186
186
188
lUI
199
ASHTOS, ARTHUR .J., M.A., Congregational School, Catedlam, Surrey.
BOIS, HERBERT G., 4, Clarendon-place, Hyde Park-square, W.
CASNON, MRS., Hillcot, Sharples, near Bolton.
CHARLESWORTH, MISS A. M., Westfield College, Hampstead, N.W.
HEATON, CHARLES, M.R.e.S., Watford, Herts.
HUDDLESTON, MRS., Llwynderw, Welshpool, Montgomeryshire.
INNES, LIEUT.-COLONEL P. R., II, Cheniston-gardens, London, W.
OPIE, EDWARD A. D., Pirie-street, Adelaide.
PRO'l'HERO, MRS., 63, Trumpington-street, Cambridge.
RAVENSBURG, DR. F. FREIHERR GOELER VO!'i, 4, Nettelbeckstrasse,
Bedin, 'V.
REYNOLDS, COLONEL H. C., Thorncliffe, Cheltenham.
SAlIS, REV. GEORGE F., M.A., Embel'ton Rectory, Newport Pagnell.
STEVENSON, GEORGE, Care of Messrs. Grindlay and Co., 55, Parliament-
street, S."-. •
THOMPSON, ISAAC C., F.L.::l., F.R.~U:!" ,,-oodstock, 'Vaverley-road,
Liverpool.
WATSON, MRS. "-. C., 39, Gloucester-square, London, W.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on January 3rd, the President
in the chair, the following Members being also present :-Dr. A. T.
Myers, Messl·s. Thomas Barkworth, Walter Leaf, Frank Podmore,
F. W. H. Myers, H. Arthur Smith, and R. Pearsall Smith.
Fifteen new Associates, whose names and addresses are given above,
were elected.
Two Members were, by request, transferred to the list of Associates,
and one Associate desired to become a Member for the ensuing year.
The resignations of one Member and of several Associates, who, from
various causes, desired to leave the Society at the end of the year,
were accepted.
186 J0'U1vnal of SOcWty for Psychical Besea'rclt. [Jan., 1890.
The Assistant Secretary was instructed to send out the notices for
the Annual Business Meeting on the 31st inst., according to the
Rules.
A vote of thanks was recorded to Professor H. Beaunis for copies
of two recent books as presents to the Library, from the author.
A vote of thanks was also passed to Mr. Edward Grubb, Hon.
Associate, for a donation of a guinea to the funds of the Society.
Various other matters of routine business were attended to, and the
Council agreed to meet-as pre"iously arranged-either at the close of
the Annual B,!siness Meeting on the 31st, or after the General
Meeting.
EXPERIMENTS WITH MADAME B. IN SEPTEMBER, 1889.
By MR. R. A. H. BICKFORD-S1UTH.
M.671.
I twice saw L.-an initial familiar to readers of the Joumal-
under the influence of M. Janet. On both occasions she remarked that I
could put her to sleep, 01' me fait'e '!,'Bnit', as she calls it, referring to the
process of summoning her second 01' somnambulic personality. A few
evenings afterwards J was sitting in the same room with her, when she
gradually showed symptoms of drowsiness, A lady who was present
told me she thought I might as well send her oft' to sleep. This
I did with no difficulty, merely holding her hand. I repeated
the experiment on several subsequent occasions. The results were
of three kinds: physical phenomena, suggested phenomena, and
clairvoyance. In going to sleep she invariably sighed at intervals,
on one occasion five times, on one eleven, but oftenest seven
or nine. In waking I noticed a corresponding number of sighs,
the opening of the eyes being relatively placed at the same
sigh as the shutting of them. The sigh was sometimes sharp
and spasmodic, sometimes deep-drawn, there being occasionally con-
siderable convulsion. I was able easily to wake her when Dr. Gibert
had mesmerised hel'; this I did twice; on the second occasion
she was asleep when Dr. Gibert left, and got very excited and
distressed when she woke (still magnetised) to discover that he was
gone, so that I had to re-mesmerise her before de-magnetising her. On
the other occasion she was awake when he left, and I did not have to
re-mesmerise her. One evening a M.B--attempted to magnetise her
against her will, and succeeded in making her quite drowsy; I com-
pleted the sleep; but on his raising her arm, and my not being able to
move it, I supposed her to be under his influence. She remained greatly
agitated; so that I re-mesmerised her, which had the effect of making
her perfectly tranquil. He afterwards tried to re-subject her to his in-
Digitized by Google
Jan., lSOO.) JOlt1'llal of Societ!J fm' Psycltical Besea,·clt. 187
fiuence, but without success. When asleep her fingers frequently began
to go through the movements of writing, on which occasion 1 generally
gave her pencil and paper; what she wrote was always intelligible.
Often she would ask for Dr. Gibert, M. Richet, or M. Janet. Her
other writings almost always appeared to be related to what was
passing in my mind at the time. She has a way of feeling the thumb-
nails of those present, who, in accordance with the result of her
investigation, are treated with friendship, or indifference, or even
contempt.
The first time she was with me she objected to my smoking, but on
my telling her it was English tobacco and entirely without smell, she
was perfectly satisfied, and never objected afterwards; in fact,
every kind of suggestion seemed to operate perfectly on her. The
oddest circumstance of this kind, perhaps, was that one day when
she had a headache, 1 told her 1 would take her headache from
her and keep it myself, which 1 did, although 1 am quite a novice
at headaches. With me it lasted rather over an hour. One evening
she came and sat next me on a sofa, took my right hand in hers,
and with her left began to make passes, saying she was going to
mesmerise me; in less than a minute she was sound asleep. When
under influence her eyes are usually about three-quarters shut, though
one can open or close them at pleasure. There seemed to be close rela-
tionship between her mood and mine; once 1 had some difficulty in
magnetising her, and once ill awakening her; on both of which occasions
1 was independently excited myself.
One afternoon she gave me a description of my father's country
house which was certainly correct ill every particular. One remark
was extremely singular; after portraying the ponds, and stating that
she saw a row of tall fir trees by the lower end of the upper pond, she
Raid she saw me reading in a boat, in that corner, which is undoubtedly
an old habit of mine. In describing the gardeners she said that two
had aprons on, and she hazarded the guess that they attended to the
greenhouses. She observed that one of the gardeners was concierge,
and described the lodge in which she said he lived, the idea appearing
very droll to her. (I do not know as yet if this is a fact, but 1 knew
at the time that the old lodge-keeper had left.)* She plays ecane much
better than when in a normal state, playing her trumps out with
admirable pluck. On several occasions when stray remarks were made
by bystanders in English and German, she replied to them as if she
understood, though she usually objected to other languages than French
• Mr. Bickford·Smith bas since &l!Certained that the lod~ i, occupied by 1\
groom, not .. prdener.-ED.
Digitized by Google
188 Jou,"YUd of Sooiety fOl' Psycldoal Resea)'Cl,. [Jan., 1890.
being used in her pl-esence. (L. has made a stay of about a fortnight
in England, but is, I believe, quite ignorant of Gel'man.)
As to prevision, theM were no vel'y startling facts, though hel' de-
scription 011 Septembel' 27th of the bicycle race I'un 011 Septembel' 29th
was sutlicielltly so. She nallled the winner, descl'ibed his principal
opponent, who was to fall, and said that M. A. B. would win, because
the next man would be unable to spurt; she added that there would be
three prizes fol' the winneI'. The lattel' prophecy was fulfilled by a
telegraphically added prize from the Ministel' of Wal', and by the
winner gaining the "lap prize" as well. . The only inaccuracy i'J RS
to the spurting, pl'esuming that she meant the fino1 spurt.
Hel' clail"Voyance is fullel' and mOM precise when she is L.3 than L.2;
probably each successive stage is an improvement on the lessel' ones. L.:!
knows all about the inferiol' L., and controls her, being treated in the
same way in her tUl'n by L.3, &tc. L. is shy and uneducated, a good
Norman matron; L.2 is gay and demonstrative, with considel"8.ble wit;
L.3 is a very Melpomene, though a trifle slow and sententious; L.4 is
ecstatic.
L.2 recognises the acquaintance of L., while L.3 recognises only those
who have summoned hel' 01' L.2, and L.4 only recognises hel' summonel'
fol' the time being.
The impression prevailing in my own mind all through these ex-
periments has been that mesmerism, whatever it may be, brings into
action ordinarily dOl"IDant mental powel'll, revealing at each successive
stage a more cultul"6d and more sensitive nature. Whethel' there be a
superlative,ol' whethel' each human bmin has infinite potentiality, of
COUI'S6 no experiments can prove.
R. A. H. BICKPO~IIITIL
Asked if he could recall furthel' details of L.'s descliption of hiS
father's house, Mr. Bickford-Smith replied on November 14th: "I
find it very difficult to J"6C811 other details at this date. I remem-
bel', however, her surprise at the size of the kitchen and the number of
books in the library (over 10,000, I belie\·e). She also accurately placed
several trees. This is interesting from the fact that I am a considerable
tree planter, and specially addicted to tree-biography. The trees she
mentioned were 'chums' of mine."
EXPERIMENTS IN APPARENT CLAIRVOYANCE.
I should like briefly to bling before l"eaders of the Jourllal a
remarkable series of experiments conducted by a friend of mine,
which, though still too incomplete fol' publication, is suggestiye and
Digilizedby Google .....
Jan.,1890.] Journal of Society fo'/' Psychical Resea1·clt. 189
encouraging enough to make it, in my opinion, very important that
others should try to obtain similar results.
The experiments consist simply in guessing playing cards drawn at
random from a pack and not looked at by anyone. My friend has made
about 2,585 trials of this kind, and in 187 cases has guessed the card
correctly both as to suit and number. In 75 of these cases, however,
two alternative guesses were made (e.g., 3 of hearts or clubs);
counting these as half successes we have what is equivalent to 149~­
complete successes, or three times the most probable number by
chance alone. So large an excess over the most probable number of
successes in so large a number of trials is of course most unlikely to be
due to chance.
My friend does not, however, wish to commit herself to any opinion
as to what it is due to without further investigation. One reason for
this is that all the above-mentioned trials were made when she was en-
tirely alone. Circumstances make it specially difficult in her case to
arrange for joint experiments with others. She is so much accustomed
to being alone, moreover, that companionship disturbs her in all kinds
of work requiring mental concentration. It is therefore not surprising
that a series of experiments which she and I made together-under
circumstances of great bustle and excitement compared with her ordinary
life-should have failed. We do not despair, however, of future
success; only in the meanwhile we are anxious that others should
try the experiment and give us the benefit of their experience. If a
faculty of clairvoyance really exists, experiments of this kind seem to
be a simple mode of proving its existence. On the other hand, it is
possible that the experience of others may suggest some mode, which
has not occulTed to us, of explaining my friend's results by known
causes.
It is of course impossible in our present state of knowledge to say
what kind of person is most likely to succeed, but if, as some think,
thought-transference, or rather thought-reading, is only one form of a
more far-reaching faculty of clairvoyance, it would seem to be specially
desirable that all who have had any kind of success as percipients in
thought-transference experiments should try these also.
As a guide to anyone who may be willing to try, I will describe
my friend's method. She draws a card at random from a pack,
which is either spread out on the. table before her or kept in a compact
heap. The pack is continually shuffled. At first she used to hold the
card in her hand and gaze at the back of it, but it OCCUl'l'cd to her that
in this way she might possibly sometimes ullcollsciously recognise the
card by its back, and she therefore substitutcd for the card a small
piece of white cltl'tlboahl us an object on which to fix her eyes. Oll
190 Jut~I'nal oj Suc·iety jm' Psyckical Reseal/·clt. [Jan., 1890.
this she would see, not a complete image of a card, but something as
it wel'e symbolic of it and which suggested her guess. She found it
undesirable to use the same piece of white card twice in succession,
as the image persistelL This method of gazing at some surface is not
indispensable to success. She thinks that on the whole it conduces to
success in her case, but it does so at the expense of greater fatigue to
herself than merely waiting for an idea to come without fixing the
eyes on anything in particular. She usually made about twenty trials
at a time-sometimes more and sometimes less.
With regard to conditions of mind 01' body suitable to the ex-
periments, my friend has little to say. She has not been able to trace
any clear connection between success and various conditions of health
01' of inclination to the work. She believes, however, that she does not
succeed immediately after eating. A state of mind free from anxiety
-at least about the experiments themselves-seems desirable.
The number given above includes, we believe, all the trials made
between May 29th and September 4th, 1889; but the total 2,585 is
only approxima.te, because the record of certain guesses on unsuccessful
days was destroyed in the early days of experimenting before it
occurred to my friend that it wa.s important to retain all. She has
reasons for thinking that 80 is an outside estimate of these rejected
trials, and as 80 we have therefore reckoned them. The trials may
be arranged chronologically in groups as follows:-
.!i Baa ,,;
:; ~
.. ...u I.,oil
.li ~"OIJ
'l:
.. Coo
=:·1
"0 o"'"ft 0: ","°5
~~= "0:1 .. ~'a"
t" ..
° .. oi!: i'CS
Z ~ .. ~ ::II ..
1st Series, May 20th to June 1llth, 188n ... ii81* 37 12 43 11 '2
2nd Series, June 10th to July 24tb, 1889 ... 500 21 8 25 1)'6
3rd Series, July 25th to AUJnlst 26th, 188!! ... 504 15 27 28! 1)'1
4th Series, Augwst 27th to August 30th, 1889 ... 500 23 10 28 I)'G
5th Series, August 30th to Sept. 4tb, 1889 ." 500 16 18 25 9'6
1112 1-;-11491
--
Total '"
,.. ... 2585 49'7
The above account of the experiments has been revised by my
friend, though I am primarily responsible for it.
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK.
* Including the rejected trials IIstima.tt'd at SO.
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1890.] Journa/, Of Society fO)' Psychical, Raeal·CIt. 191
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L-I050. (Collective).
In the following caae-unless there was a. mistake of identity a.nd
the figure taken for Mr. Williams was really another man, which is
certainly shown to be highly improbable-we have an instance of
hallucinations representing the same person appearing to several
persons at different times-a kind of coincidence which certainly affords
some evidence that the appearances were not purely subjective in origin.
This type of case is discussed in P/ur.nta8'l1Ul of the Living, Vol. II.,
pp. 77-90, where several instances of it are given. In the present
instance there are two special features, namely, that one of the appear-
ances was collective, i.e., seen by two people at once, and that it
included the figure of a child.
MIss DALISON'~ ACCOCNT.
On Sunday, APli1 28th, 1889, died Charles Williams, tailor, of Plaxtol,
Sevenoaka, Kent, of pleuro-pneUlllonia, at 6 p.m. He was taken ill on the
Tuesday evening previous, and neveragain left his bed, being carefully tended
by his wife. Two docton were with him on Saturday afternoon, but little hope
was entertained for him by the docton from the first, and he was forbidden to
speak for fear of breaking a blood vessel. During Saturday he showed a
great desire to speak, but his wife restnined him with the promise that after
Tuesday he could speak as much as he liked; it being hoped that if he lived
over the crisis he might then recover.
On Saturday, the 27th, Anna Dalison and Kathleen Sinclair, cousins,
were in Plaxtol distributing library books, and at one o'clock, whilepassinga
certain shop met Mr. Williams, whose personality was well known to both,
and they bowed their good day while he n,ised his hat; he had walking
beside him a small girl.
On Monday morning the news of Mr. Williams' death reached Miss A.
Dalison's home two miles from Plaxtol. On hearing it she exclainled, .. How
awfully sudden it must have been; Kathleen and I met him in the street
on Saturday." "Impossible, he never left his bed after Wednesday." "What
child had Williams 1" "Oh that was his wife's niece who had been living with
them lately." N.B. Anna Dalison knew nothing of Williams' illness, nor had
ever heard of the child.
The two yoWll ladies were Been by a child at the time they were passing
the .. fiarure" and she mn in and said to her mother, "Two of the young
ladies have just Kone down," but it came out upon questioning later that
neither Williams nor his niece was seen, though both wore intimate friends of
this little girl and her family.
The above was written by Miss Anna Da.lison's sister on May 2nd,
1889. l\Jiss Anno. Dalison IKld" to it the word,,:-
This i. a tl'U8 I\ooount of what I 81\W.
.;\..~NA ~1. DALl~U:li.
Digitized by Google
MISS SINCLAIR'S ACCOUNT.
Jlt"lte 7th, 1889.
As my cousin and I were coming down the middle street of Plaxtol, we
saw coming towards us the tailor Williams (who was well known to both of
us). He looked exactly as usual and my cousin and I did not know even
that he was ill at the time. We said good-morning, and he took off his hat.
He had a child with him whom I observed wished to take his hand as he
p:J.'1sed but he would not let it. This I remarked to my cousin at the time.
I am not at all short sighted, indeed I have very good sight.
KATHLEEN Y. SINCLAIR.
MR. HIND'S STATEMENT.
I divide this statement into two heads, 1ST. Facts which I can vouch for
1\8 having occurred on a certain day-what day I cannot now recall to mind
sufficiently to be positive about, but which I am inclined to believe 'IIl11St have
been Friday April 26th last-and 2ND. The Reasou,., for supposing that to have
been the day.
1ST. FA.CTS. On this day (whenever it was) I walked to Plaxtol, Kent, to
post a letter (or letters) in time for the 11 a.m. post there; when about half-
way between my house and Plaxtol, about 20 yards or so beyond the house
of a builder named Allcorn, I saw, about 100 yards in front of me, an
indistinct figure coming towards me ; being short sighted and not having my
glass up at the moment I could not tell whether it was a man, woman, or
horse and cart. I put up my glass to see, and at the same instant the figure
appeared close to me, and I saw it was C. W[illiams]. Although I did not think
very much about it at the time, the thought did float lazily through my mind,
that he had come upon me very quickly, and I certainly did notice at once
that he looked extremely ghastly and ill. He was dressell liS I generally
used to see him, in a costume the colour of which I cannot positively describe,
but the impression left on my mind was that it was a very light brown. When
I first mentioned this 1'encontre, I was under the impression (and said so)
that he had saluted me as he invariably used to do, but on thinking the
Inatter over it seems borne into my mind that he did not do so, but stared
very hard, and I have now an impression (though this may be an afterthought)
that this struck me at the time as rather strange. This was as nearly as I
calculate about 10.40 a.m.
2ND. Reasons for supposing the IIbove' to have happencd on Friday, April
26th last.
I was in London on 24th and 25th April, so they are out of the question.
On Monday, 29th, I went up to town and 011 my return in the evening, my
wife infoMlled me of C. W. 's death. I at once exclaimed, "Why I only saw
him a day or two ago." She asked "When ?" I replied, "The last time I
went to Plaxtol." She then said" Why that WI\8" (or" must have been," I
forget which) "last Friday." •
I had not mentioned the name of any day to her 1\8 in fact I could not
remember, so I do not see what should have made her think of FridaYj
unless it was the day. If it was not Friday, it must have been more than a
week previously at least when I met C. W. and in that case I do not think I
Digitized by Google
J,m., l$OO.J Jou/j,/Utl oj Soctety fur Psycit-icCtl Researclt. 193
should have thought anything about it, for what made the announcement of
his death seemed so sudden to me, was the feeling that I had seen him only a
day or two before.
My daughter, aged 13, is positive that Friday was the day, and she fixes
it by the fact that she went to Hamptons (Mrs. Dalison's) on the Wednesday
after the Saturday to which Miss Dalison's account refers, and remembers
that the previous Friday she had no lessons with me (which I generally give
her) beca!lse IlulCl to go to Pl(t.ciuli,1t the momiug.
If she is accurate in this, then it must be a fact that the day on which I
met C. W. was the day before Miss Dalison and Miss Sinclair did the same,
and a day on which he is supposed to have never left his bed.
I must confess, however, that while I have no reason to doubt the
accuracy of my daughter's statement, my own memory is not much refreshed
by it; that is to say I have even now not that degree of personal conviction
IT'hich would justify me in Itweariny to the day. My nearest approach to
conviction is the feeling that I don't think it can have been any other day.
I was in London on the 25th, 24th, 18th, 17th, 16th, and 15th April, and I am
positive I did not go to Plaxtol on either Good Friday (19th) or Easter Monday
(22nd) (Sundays of course were out of the question), so that this leaves a
very few days to choose from, and renders it all the more probable that my
daughter's statement, about which she is positive, is the right one. I am
certain it cannot have been before the 15th that the event occurred, as in that
case, it would not have struck me as "only a day or two ago" (which it did)
when I heard of his death on the 29th.
J. A. nIN».
Claygate, Shipbourne, Tonbridge.
JlOle 11th, 1889.
The fact of the death of MI'. Williams and the duration of his
illness is confirnled by the Kent Jlessen[Jer of Saturday, May 4th, 1889,
which a1l1lounces "the death of Mr. Charles Williams. which
took place, after only five days' confinement to his bE>,d, on Sunday
evening last."
We also have a letter from his medical attendant, stating that he
saw him on Saturday, April 27th, and that it was quite impossible for
him to have been out of doors on that day or the day before.
In allSwer to written questions Mr. Fryer learnt that the figure of Mr.
Williams passed the ladies as near as possible on the road, that he was
dressed in his ordinary clothes-light grey coat, tight buttoned up, and
that his whole appearance was as natural and life-like as possible
-nothing unusual about it. They lost sight of him, after passing, in a
natural way, and did not look round.
As to the possibility of mistaken identity, they cOllSider that he was
quite unmistakable, being very taU and peculiar looking. His only
brother was in America, so that there could have been no mistake
between two brothers. They did not know Mrs. Williams' niece, and
the child whose figure they saw with that of Mr. Williams was
Digitized by Google
194 JO'U1'1tul of Society fur Psychical Resea1'Ch. [Jan., 1800.
unknown to them. They knew Eva Knowles, the child who saw them,
too well for any possibility of confusion between them.
There were not many people about-two or three people opposite
the shop were emptying barrels.
Neither of the ladies is short-sighted, and neither has ever had
any similar hallucination.
In answer to the question whether )[1' Williams looked ill, Mr.
Fryer learnt that there was nothing in his appearance to attract
attention, but after hearing of his death, )[iss A. Da.lison did think he
had looked rather pale.
We have the evidence ill writing of Eva Knowles, and of her
mother, as to Eva's having seen the two ladies pass on the Saturday in
question. They were also seen to pass ten days previously, on the 18th,
when Mr. Williams and his niece were in the shop, but there seems to
be no possibility of the ladies having confused the two days.
The following is from Mr. Fryer!-
On Monday, June 10th, 1889, I visited Plaxtol and saw nearly all the
persons who have given their evidence in this case. Mrs. Williams showed
lUe two photographs of her late husband, which proved him to have been a
lUan of no common appeamnce but rather refined and striking. Mrs. W. is
aure that there is no one in the neighbourhood who could have been mis-
taken for her husband. She says he was taken ill on Tuesday, April 23rd,
and never rose from his bed again. During the illneaa he remarked to her
" I feel so stra.nge, there is only my fmme lying here," and twice over he
said to her, "The odd thing with this illneaa is I never seem to realise I alU in
lUy own room. I seem to be in a beautiful mansion, with beautiful grounds
and tlowers. I never saw anything so beautiful, and you are always with nlO.
All the people are gra.ndees, but they 1101'0 not above us, but kind, and make
us perfectly at home." Mr. Williams died on Sunday, April 28th, at 6 p.m.
Miss A. Dalison knew nothing of the illneaa.
Mrs. Knowles, the shopkeeper, is quite certain about the dates mentioned,
and although she thought at first that Miss A. Dalison and Miss Sinclair
must have mistaken the day and had a reminiscence of April 18th, when Mr.
W. was in her shop with the little girl, she now remembers that when Mr.
W. left her shop they must have been some way down the road below it and
therefore would not have seen him go up the street, which he did. Eva
Knowles is an intelligent child of 11, in the 5th standard. She saw Miaa A.
Damon, Miss Sinclair and a getLtlemat~, pass the shop on the 18th, whilst
Mr. W. Was inside. She remembers the time and date by the fact that ahe
had come home from school and that MI'. W. brought the ohild Hilda an
orange (which he had never done before-the child beini only a recent
visitor). Eva saW the ladies paaa on the 27th, but no gentleman with them
then. When Millll A. Dalison and Miss Sinclair went to talk over the appearance
witll Mrs. Knowles on Tuesday, April 30th (date of visit noted in Miaa S.
Dalison's diary), Miss Sinclair at once pointed out Mr. Williams in a photo-
Digitized by Google
Jan., lIlOO.] Juu'lvnal of Society jew Psychical Resea1·ch. 195
graphic group of 12 men. She had not seen the picture before the 30th,
but Mr. W. had worked for her a year ago.
The child with Mr. Williams, when he appeared to Miss Dalison and Miss
Sinclair, was of same height I\nd build as Hilda Mary, age eight, niece of
Mrs. Williams, and of her existence the ladies were lmaware.
Mr. Williams knew the Dalisons well for at least 24 years.
L 832.-All pn
'Ve are indebted for the following case to Mr. Spencer Curtis, who
has taken much trouble in collecting all the evidence now obtainable
about the occurrence. -
The first account is from Mr. Curtis himself and is dated November
9th, 1888.
About five years ago, one Sunday night at about a quarter to 11 o'clock, I
was sitting in my room with my nephew smoking. We suddenly heard
screams, and on going out of the room found that they proceeded from the
nursery maid's room. I went into her room and found her much excited,
and she told me that she had heard her mother calling her. 1 spoke rather
sharply to her about her fancy and told her she had much better go to sleep.
My nephew and 1 thought no more about it.
On Tuesday morning following my wife received a letter from GuenlSey,
asking her to break the news to our nursery maid, that her brother and
brother-in-law (who were fishermen) had been drowned on Sunday night.
His body was recovered and it was found that his watch had stopped at a
quarter to 11.
A few days later Mr. Curtis wrote ;-
My wife informs me that it took place in December, 1878, not "about
five years ago" as I mentioned.
!Ir. Curtis' nephew writes on December 10th, 1888 ;-
I reoollect perfectly about 10 years ago (I forget the actual date) I was stay-
ing with my uncle, Mr. Spencer Ourtis, at Totteridge House, from a Saturday
to a Monday, which 1 was in the habit of often doing.
My uncle Imd myself were smoking in his smoking-room in the evening,
after 10o'olock (I think it was aSaturday), when we were alarmed between 10.30
p.m. and 10.46 p.m. by hearing shrieks issue from the nursery maid's room.
My uncle hastened to the room, 1 remaining behind, and on his return he
told me that the girl had had a dream that her mother was calling her, and
she heard the ohurch bells ringing, or something to that effect, 1 forget the
actual words. My aunt also hastened to the room; in fact the girl woke the
whole house by her screams, and as she said it was no doubt a fit of
indigestion, applied the necessary remedies, and we hcard no more about it.
Some weeks after my uncle drew my attention to the above incident, and
told me the girl's brother and brother-in-law had been drowned off Guernsey
from a cutter, on that very night we had heard the screams. 1 have an idea
of hearing that the brother's body was recovcred, lind his watch had stopped
at 10.45 p.m., but of this 1 11m not quite sure.
19 Jo-u1"1Utl of 80c·iety fOI' Psychical.Rese<.wclt. [Jan., 1890.
I thought the occurrence remarkable, and it has been imprell88d on my
memory ever since, and I have often related the circumstances to friends.
E. CONSTABLE CURTIS.
The following account, signed by the Ilursery maid, Rose Aldridge,
was dictated by her to Mr. Spencer Curtis's sister-in-law. We have a
similar account in her own handwriting.
On the night of the 13th January, 1879, between sleeping and waking, I
SI\W something shadowy rise up at the foot of my bed, I felt a hand passed
over my face, and heard a voice say distinctly three times-" Poor Rose." I
screamed, and Mrs. Curtis came to me; when I became calm I felt convinced
there was something wrong at home. RosB ALDRIDGE.
Miss Curtis corroborates as follows :-
I distinctly remember, as a child, Rose Aldridge telling our nurse about
what she saw. MABGARE'I H. CURTIS.
Totteridge, Herts.
January 30th., 1889.
In sending these last two accounts Mr. Curtis writes :-
I believe that Rose Aldridge was able to fix the dsy as Monday as being
the day she was found fault with about not sending some clothes to the
wash.
I have got my daughter to state that she remembers the circumstance.
She was about seven years old at the time.
This completes the evidence about the phantasm. It appears that
Rose Aldridge (or Oldridge as she sometimes spells it) has some inde-
pendent reason, mentioned above, for thinking that it occurred on a
~Ionday night. Mr. Spencer Cm·tis and his nephew, on the other
hand, have some independent reason for thinking that it happened on
a Saturday 01' a Sunday night, namely that those were the days on which
Mr. Constable Curtis usually stayed with his uncle. At this distance
of time, however, we do not think that this recollection ought to weigh
much against the conviction of Mr. CU1-tis that when the news of
the deaths came he, as well as Rose Aldridge, believed them to have
taken place on the night of her experience. The hour of her experience
must have been late in the evening, after she went to bed, but before
the gentlemen did.
The deaths occurred on the night of Monday, January 13th, to
Tuesday, January 14th, 1879, but the hour is not known, all on
board the vessel when she was wrecked having been drowned. We
extract from copies of al-ticles in the Guernsey Stat·, which Mr. Curtis
has sent to us, the passages which seem to throw light on the subject.
From the Guemsey Stew of January 14t11 (Tuesday), 1879.
&rly this moming, considerable excitement was caused ill the toWll by
the rumour that the well-known St Malo trader Reilldee·r had been wrecked
off Jersey and all hands were missing . She was commimded by
Digitized by Google
Jail., 11!9O.] JO!l.il')wl of Society fOl' Psych·wal &sealock. 197
Captain George PiPl'ell . . . and a crew of four men, named W. Old·
ridge, R. Hughes, G. Paul, and T. Phillips.
From the Guernsey Star, Thul'llday, January 16th, 1879.
The finding of the St. Malo mail bag at once set at rest all doubt as to
the fate of the unfortunate vessel, and this was quickly followed by portionll
of the cabin furniture, including the cabin clock, which had stopped at two
o'clock, thus indicating the time at which the catastrophe happened. The
&indeer, which was of 59 tollll burthen, was well-known for her excellent
sailing qualities;' and her captain was a skilled and careful man, acquainted
with every portion of this dangerous coast ; the cause of this calamity can,
therefore, but be conjectured, as 1I0ne remain to tell the harrowing tale.
When lIhe sailed from our harbour on Monday the weather was very stonny
and hazy, but scarcely sufficient to cause the delay of the voyage. Shortly
afterwardH, however, the wind increased, alld a thick fog ensued. At about
11 o'clock the &i"deel' was seen on the fishing bank oft' St. Martin's Point,
and the wind at that time bearing more on her southerly quarter it is believed
that the captain, while trying to make the Corbibre light, must have been
carried on the rocks in St. Ouen's Bay, where the vessel was quickly dashed
to pieces and all on board drowned.
From the report of the inquest on the bodies given in the Guernsey
Star for January 18th, 1879, it appears that the bodies came on shore
by degrees. The captain's was only found on Thursday morning. In
t·he captain's pocket was found a watch, stopped at 5.15.
Mr. Edward F. Piprell, a brother of the deceased captain, residing in
Guerlllley, said . . . that vessel . . . was to have left Guernsey for St. Malo
at three o'clock on Monday aftenlOon, but did not leave till 6.30, having got
aground. He gave the names of the crew, all of whom he identified. His
brother was 24 yeal'll of age, the ages of the men varyingfrom 26 to 28. The
jury returned a verdict that the bodies were those of the menabove-mentioneu,
accidentally drowned in the wreck of the cutter &ill(iul', of Guernsey, which
took place in the night of the 13th to the 14th ill8t., at the Havre du Dehon,
near L'Etecq, in the parish of St. Ouen's.
L833.-Adpn
For the following narrative we are indebt.ed to the Rev. H. Kendall,
of Darlington. MI'. Bastow, whose lision is recounted, is the author
of a Bible Dictionary which has passed through five editiolUl. His
experience is of a rare and interesting type; but it is undeniable that
56 years is a long time through which to carry back the memory. MI'.
Ba.'1tow's memory of things that happened to him at that time seems,
however, to be vi\;d, and it will be observed that the account of the
experience, though only now signed by MI'. Bastow, was written by
Mr. Kendall after hearing it from MI'. Bastow 19 years ago :-
The Rev. J. A. Bastow, Primitive Methodist Minister, had once a remark-
able experience. It was when he was a young, unmarried man, travelling in
the Bolton circuit in Lancashire. The Rev. James Garner was also a young
Digitized by Google
198 Jou1"YULl 0/ Society /01' Psycldcal Research. [Jan., 1890.
man at that time and was bis colleague, and they lodged together at the house
of the luperintendent minister at Bolton. One evening when they were
Itudying in the aame room, Mr. Bastow was writing at 9 or 10 o'clock and a
ludden feeling came over him that his mother was dying. He looked up and
aaid, "Gamer! my mother'l dying." Mr. Gamer of courae pooh-poohed the
idea and tried to dispossess him of what he thought a foolish fancy. They
did not study any more that night but aat talking, and by-and-bye they went
to bed. They slept together. Mr. Bastow got into bed firat, and no lOoner
wal his head laid upon the pillow than he seemed to be in a room out of
which a door opened into a bedroom where his mother lay in bed dying. He
saw everything distinctly and all before Mr. Garner joined him. He ltarted
up and said, "It is of no use, Gamer! my motheris dying. I've just seen her."
Next day Mr. Flesher, who travelled at Scarborough, paBBed through the town
on the way to Manchester. Mr. Bastow asked him if he had seen their
people at Leeds but he replied that the coach only stayed just long enough to
change horaes and he didn't get down. Just then the superintendent's wife
called out, "Bastow, you must come downstaira, here's a letter for you." He
went down and read the letter. It was from Leeds and informed him that
hiB mother had died the night before at the time when he saw her. She had
died in child-bearing. When he saw her ill vision the house seemed strange
to him, butwhen he went over to the funeral he found that they had removed
to another house since he was at home last, and there were the rooms exactly
as he had seen them.
Mr. Bastow does not know how it was he saw what he did, only that he
RaW it all in his mind, that it seemed as natural as possible at the moment,
and that it was accompanied with the conviction that it was a reality. He
has never had any experience like it before or since. He was in good health
at the time.
To this Mr. Bastow adds the words :-
This account is correct. JA)[ES AUSTIN BASTOW.
Mr. Kendall continues :-
Rev. J. A. Bastow now resides at 120, Paulton-road, Southport. He writes
September 19th, 1889, to Rev. James Gamer, now of Sale, near Manchester,
for confirmation of the abm'e account and aays: "I think you will recollect
the night in March, 1833, when the impression of my mother's death seized
me. You will alao recollect that I went home to the funeral and when I came
back you met me at Mr. Tillotson's door, and told me that I had to go back
to Preston as Mr. Calvert had died." Rev. James Garner replies: "I cannot
recollect any of the particulara respecting death of your mother, but I have
no doubt respecting the correctneBB of your statements." *
The general minutes of Conference of the Primitive Methodist Con-
nexion for 1832 gil'e the names of preachera at Bolton al S. Tillotson, J.
* Mr. Gamer sta.tea in the same letter that sight has failed him and that his
general health has much failed, 80 that his not remembering the iucident need not
surprise us.
Digitized by Google
Jan, 1890.] JoU'rnai of Soc·iety for Psychical Resect1'ch. 199
Garner, J. Bastow. This arrangement would be in force from June, 1832,
to June 1833, and would, therefore, include the time, March, 1833, when
Ml-. Bastow had his vision. Previous to 1832 Ml-. Bastow's name does not
appear in the minutes. In thOle of 1833 it is down for Preston Brook. The
account states that Mr. Flesher was travelling at Scarborough at the time,
and paaaed through Bolton on his way to Manchester. He was a minister of
wide repute, often sent for to a distance on special occaaiona. The minutes
of 1832 give his name along with many others for Hull circuit, but the Hull
circuit was very extenaive, including many branohes, and of these branches
Scarborough was one.
I wrote the account of Mr. Bastow's vision, which he now endorses, in
1870. It was given to me a little before that time by him, when his mind
and memory ware in full vigOIU'.
Darlington, Ootober lat, 1889. H. KENDALL.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the EdiUn' of the J01.1RNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-Ill reply to my objection made on November 24th to Mr. Podmore's
theory that phantasms of the dead are probably "caaual hallucinationa
engendered by some condition of the percipient," caused by "vague alarm"
or "expectancy," in which I expreBBed surprise that, if it were so, the
hallucinationa never took the form of "things with wings," angels, fairies, or
demona, Mr. Podmore says in the last JO'Itl'lUll of the Society, "It baa been
well established that a large proportion of the hallucinationa seen by sane
and healthy persona resemble the human form." I founded my objection to
his theory on this very fact. His anawer tends to reinforce my objection.
The large proportion of hallucinations seen by healthy persons to resemble
the human form, quoted in Phantasms of the Living, were admittedly caused
in Bome way by the agency of the human beings seen. I submit that when
the hallucination takes the form of a person who is dead we should refer the
cause of it to that person till some better cause is discovered, unless, of course,
telepathy as an explanation of the phenomena recorded in PhantuMTUJ of the
Living has broken down.-I am, yours truly,
R. M. College, G. M. LE M. TAYLOR.
Decembel'14th, 1889.
P.S.-Mr. Podmore also sayB we are not dealing with persona suffering
from del·i·rium t'j'eme'l18; true, but we are with hallucinations. When the cause
of these manifestly does not emanate· from the persona they represent, but
they are "caaual," engendered by some condition of the percipient such as
delirium of various kinds, and "vague fear" with "expectancy" (as when a
child left in the dark sees the devil), the hallucinationa frequently take the
grotesque form so conapicuous in the other case by their absence.
The argument of Mr. Podmore, which is attacked by Colonel Taylor, is
put so shortly in the abstract given in the Journal for December that it is
perhaps hardly clear, and we do not think that Colonel Taylor baa quite
caught the point. The facts seem to be that while the majority of apparitiona
Been by sane and healthy persona are human in form, mOlt of these are un-
recognised; of the recognised ones most are of living people, and of these
apparitiona of living .{Ieople most seem to be perfectly caaual, corresponding
to nothing whatever m the experience of the person whose figure is seen.
. Digilizedby Google
200 Jot(,l'nal of Society for P8ychiectl Re8eal'clt. [Jan., 1890.
For instance, A. meets his son in the passagc and afterwards ascertains that
he was at the time playing with his brother in the dining-room, and nothing
happens to connect the appearance with any state, mental or physical, of
his son.
To give definiteness to our argument we may take, as provisionally
representing the proportion of recognised to unrecognised apparitions,
&c., the numbers of those reported all affecting the sense of sight only
in our census of hallucinations as so far worked out.* Out of 205 such
experienoes 178 were human apparitions-that is, appearances of the
human form or parts of the human form (including under this head one
oase of an angel with wings, and one of a cherub); the other 27 represented
animals or inanimate objects. Of thc 178 human apparitions 99 were
unrecognised, 59 representcd rec:lgnised living people, and 20 represented
recognised dead people.
Of the 59 apparitions of living pcople, 14 are reported as being prima
facie coincidental-happening at the HIIme time as an event with which there
is some reason to connect them. The remainder,i.e., more than three-
fourths, of the apparitions of living people, seem to have been purely
subjective, or at least no reason is shown for supposing any of them to
be otherwise.t
Of the 20 apparitions of dead people, 3 occurred before the fact of the
death was known to the percipient, but we have no special reason for
supposing that the remaining 17 were veridical.
Turning to the unrecognised human apparitions, there is some reason to
connect 5 of them with deaths that occurred about the same time, but in
the majority of the remaining 94 cases we have no reason to suppose that the
apparitions lepreBented any actual perRon, living or dead, at all. They may
have been purely fancy portraits made up in the brain of the percipient, and
not representing anyone in particular, any more than the parrots, laurel
leaves, ostrich feather3, &c., of thc non-human apparitions represent any
particular parrots or laurel leaves. In somc cases, however, besides these
where there is coincidence in time with a death, there arc circumstances
which mily indicate an origin external to the percipient's "brain for those
unrecognised apparitions. Thus in cases of the type of most of those
discussed by Mr. Podmore at the last general meetil!g, there 8eems to be
somc connection between apparitions and particular localities,-different
people !leeing.apparitions in the same so-called haunted house; in other
cases, again, an apparition is visible to more than one person at a time. It
is not our object now to discuss the difficult nud complex question huw far
such things tend to indicate 1\ connection between the phantoms and deceased
persons; but at any rate the opinion that a large proportion of the apparitions
seen by sane and healthy people are purely subjective in origin is not a mert.J
conjecture; it is solidly founded on the fact brought out by statistical
investigation, that when the person whose figure is seen is alive, in the large
majority of cases no connection is discoverable between his state or his
action and the apparition.-En.
* The numbers gi"en will be found to correspond with those in the ad interillt
report on the censlls of hallucinations in Proceeding8 XV., only to be somewhat
differently divided.
t Readers of Phanf4Bm8 of the Liting will remember that Mr. Gurney (Vol. II.,
p. 19) estima+.es that about 1 in 40 of the recognised apparitions of livmg person.-
occur Within 12 hours of their death. Our larger proportion of apparently veridic·al
cases is partly due (1) to our including other coinCidences besides that of death; (2)
to Mr. Gurney's counting as coincidental cases only those where the coincidence had
been carefully established, whereas Ollrs are unsifted; and (3) it is probably partly due
also to Mr. Gurney's calculation being to some extent founded on conjectural data,
which he always endeavoured to assume in such a way that any error might weigh 011
the side against his argument.
