{"name":"General And Particular Principles Of Animal Magnetism","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1792__bell___general_and_particular_principles_of_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"General And Particular Principles Of Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
Il l'l
* - THE t 1, - \
GENERAL AND P/IRT-ICUL/ſl?t
PRINCIPLES
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY
AND
MAGNETISM, &c. ' ' .ſi
lN Wl-HCH ARB FOUND
Dr. BELL's SECRETS AND PRACTICE,
AS DELIVERED TO HlS PUPILS
In Parir, London, Bad/in, Brtﬅol, Glacgﬅer, Worcgﬂer, Pin/'ing
bam, Waſ-verbamptan, S/jre-uſhmy, Cbeﬅlr, Li-vtrpaol,
Manrlreﬅtr, &Ft. &Ft. . ' ſi ' ſi" -
Shewinghow to MAG NETISB and CURE diﬀerent DISEASBS :
to produce CRISES, aswell as SOMNAMBULISM,orSLBnP
' WALK] no ; and in that State of Sleep to make a Perſon'
eat, drink, walk, ſing and play upon any Inﬅrummt: they are
uﬅd to, Uc. to make APPA RAT us and other Acceſl'aries
to produce MAGNETXCAL FACTs; alſo to MAGNETISS
RIVERS, Rooms, Tnxes, and other Bodies, animate and
ictnanimate; to raiſe the Arms, Legs of a Perſon awake,
and to make him riſe from his Chair; to raiſe the Arm of a.
Perſun abſent from one Room to another; alſo to treat -
him at a Diﬅance. All the New Experiments and Pha
nomena are explained i' ,
By MONSlEUR LE DOCTEUR BELL, \, "'
PROFESSOR or THAT SCIENCE,
And Member of 'be PbiIaſhpbx'c-al Harmam'c Sackſ) at Pariſ, Fellow Carrrſþox
Irn' of Aſ. Le Court do Geblin's Muſtum ; on'd the onI] Perſhn aurbariﬁd
by Palm! from 'be Firﬅ Nablcmen in France, to teat/2 and yrafiij? 'but
SCIINCI in England, Irclmui, be.
a.
PRICE FIl/E SHILLINGS.
PRlNTED for the AUTHOR.-I792.
ENTERBD lN STATIONERS HALI-a
-_._.-
.
'\
'Tl-J
-
t _,_
_
.-.-'r-_-_
'
E .:
i- ii;
' lit.
i'
_
ſſl
l
ſ"
ln
'U
..-'-_'I.-m
a'
-
wrwmzn
coPY of [be CERTIFICATE granted to
DR. BELL, in PARIS, 1785.
H E Philoſophical Harmonic Society eﬅabliſhed in
Parix, in 1782, informed of the Knowledge of Docteur
JOHN BELL, Fellow Corrcſpondent of the Muſeum, have
admitted him as one of their Fellows and Correſpondents in
the Kingdom of Great Britain; and declare, in the Name of
the ſaid Society, that they ſhall hold good any Society which
may be eﬅabliſhed in England, by the ſaid jOHN BELL,
and they invite ſuch Society or Societies to correſpond with
them, according to the Articles 18, 44., and 45, of the Rules
made in Pari:, Cagueron-ﬅrnt, the eleventh of Augtzﬅ, A. D.
1785. _ *
-__#l_"
WE certify, That Dr. JOHN BELL, aſiiﬅed at the Lac
'runes upon the Science of ANIMAL ELECTRICITY
and MAGNETISM, &c. as read by Meſi'rs. DUVAL Des
PREMINXL and Bzacnsse, in the Months of Yane and jul]
laﬅ, and after a ſuﬃcient EXamination, we declare, that he
is able to teach and practiſe the Science as explained in the
Lectures. Done by Order of the Committee, Auguﬅ the
uth, 1785.
Z I M M E R M A N,
Firﬅ Secretary.
DUVAL DESPREMINIL, Preſident.
THIſ.ORIER, Honorary Secretary.
G. KORNMAN, Treaſurer.
BERGASSE, Orator.
CHEVALIER JUSTAMON.
MARQUIS de CHATELEUX.
CHEVALIER de MEZIERE.
L' ABBE de CESARGE.
COMTE D' AVAU.
COMTE de PUYSEGUR, &c. &e.
TO THE
LADIES and GENTLEMEN
PUPILS OF MY DIFFERENT CLASSES.
Ladies and gentlemen,
ITH your Permiſſion, and according to your
Wiſhes, I take the Liberty of dedicating
to you my Principles upon the Theory and Practice
of Animal Electricity and Magnetiſm, &c. &c.
to which Phcnomena you have been ſo often Wit
neﬀes, and whereby yourſelves can, and have often
produced the ſame Eﬀects. You no longer doubt
their Reality; and as you are in Poſſeſſion of the
Faculty of your Senſes, it is the ﬅrongeﬅ Reaſon
why you no longer heſitate. You daily hear Igno
rance Condemn what it cannot comprehend; and
thoſe half-learned Beings, who laugh at you and
me, and call them Impoſitions, becauſe they
do not ﬅrike their Ideas ; neither will they take
the Trouble of informing themſelves of the Truth.
A liberal minded Man ſuperior to Prejudice, ſhould
inveﬅigate Matters, before he paſſes Condemnation;
but you, Ladies and Gentlemen, who walk in a
more enlightened Path of Life, and whoſe Educa,
tion and Birth place you high above vulgar Preju
dices, Doubts, and Suſpicious, deſpiſe them, I hope,
as you are convinced of their Futility, and uncha
ritable Attempts. You well know what Oppoſition
Inoculation and Electricity met with in the Infan
cy of their Eﬅabliſhments, till ſocceſsful Experi
ence,
l-ſſ'
-*'
__
..'-
'
iv DEDlCATION.
ence, Time, and the maniſeﬅ Advantages reſulting
ſrom ſuch Doctrines, removed the dark Clouds oſ
Prejudice from thoſe who afterwards became Con
verts to their valuable Principles. Who could
have imagined, twenty Years ago, that Electricity
would ever have been employed Medicinally ? lt
is not to the Phyſicians we are indebted for its Pro
greſs, but to Natural Philoſophers : Men no Way ,
intereﬅed, ſave for the Beneﬁt of Society.
Why then ſhould not Animal Electricity and
Magnetiſm, like ſeveral other ſimple Medicines
which have been beneﬁcial to Mankind, be em
ployed P Have not Lead-ﬅones and Artiﬁcial
Magnets been proved beneﬁcial in many Caſes,
particularly inSpaſmodic, Nervous Diſeaſes, &c.
approved of by the French Academy even three
Years ago, and now made Uſe of in England?
For my own Part, I have no other Aim but to ren
der the Science known, for the Advantage oſ Man
kind ; and I hope, 'by the Patronage l have already
experienced, I ſhall fulﬁl my Miﬃon, according'
to my Patent, granted me by the Philoſophical
Harmonic Society at Paris ; and ſhall eﬅeem my
ſelf happy beyond Expreſiion, to convinCe you of
its good Eﬀects, and the Reſpect with which I am,
'Ladies and Gentlemen, .
Your very Devoted
Humble Servant,
JOHN'BELL.
. '1.
PREFACE.
DEAS increaſe and are renewed ; Error and Truth ſuc
ceed each other, and appear by Turns like the Faſhions
of Apparel.
Aa-rs and Sciences, like Empires and Kingdoms, are deſ
tined by Providence to ﬂouriſh and decay. There is no
Science, howſoever uſeful, ſublime, or perſectſſſſ it may appear,
but ſtill admits the poliſhing Hand oſlmprovement, though
Time too 'often ſerves rather to veil than to diſplay its Per
fections. Whatever has been diſcovered has been revealed
by Degrees, and, Air-Balloon-like, has often been neglected
and renewed. Human Knowledge preſerves its Revolution -
round the Truth, as the terneﬅrial Globe does round that
luminous Body which cheers us with its Rays. But in the
Progreſs of our Knowledge, ignorance ﬅill attends, and
reigns alternately, as Darkneſs after Light. Not many
Centuries have elapſed ſince ſeveral People knew this Art,
and produced many Eﬀects without knowing the Cauſe, but
being ſuppoſed the Work of Witchcraft, in thoſe Times of
Ignorance, the Perſormers were put to the Torture, and
conſequently the Art was loﬅ. I have myſelf been looked
upon by many ignorant People, in France, England', and Ire
land, as a Magician, by putting ſeveral Ladies and Gen
tlemen into Somnamdulz'ﬂn, or Sleep-Waiting, and in that State
having made them 'at and drink, ſing and play upon lb: Harpſi
tbartl, or any other Inﬅrument thy rwm uſe-a' to, by telling an un
known Perſon their Diſeaſes, and preſcribing for them, &e.
All theſe Things appeared to them wonderful, and beyond
the Power either of Nature or Art, inaſmuch as they knew
not the Cauſe, I ſh I'
a
'ma-,
A.
Ju
.=
r
u-r
_-.
-__--
-_-
w.
-*
_-"
__
'In
'TH'
vi PREFACE.
' l ſhall only give here ſuch Principles as appear to me phi
loſophically reaſonable, and on them lay the Foundation of
that Art, in the Practice of which I have had a great Deal
of Succeſs every where I have been ; and by encouraging my
Pupils to labour in the ſame extenﬁve Field, they may reap
the ſaſſme Advantages. It would be too long to recite the
Names of the Ancients who have written on this Subject;
I ſhall only mention Flud, the Ille/"aim! Philq/'aphjg Tentagc
lima, the Art of Curing by Sympathy ; Paracelſiu, ſo much
known by his Alhaheﬅical Tincturt, &c. Dighy, Friendſ, Max-wcl,
Mzſgra-vc, Lord Bacon, and many more who have treated on
that Subject. Among the many who are ſuppoſed to have
performed Cures by Tovcnrnc, was Phyrrhzu, King of
L/Iacetlon and Epimr, _who uſed to touch his Patients with his
Toe ; the Emperor Vqſpaſian, who performed many Cures by
Touching; Edward the Conﬂﬃr, and chew Anne uſed to
touch for the Scrophula, ﬁnce their Time called the King's
Evil. Several Kings in Europe have had that Gift. Lam'c
XVI. when crowned, touched ſeveral Patients, ſaying, The
King toucheth they, God'naj cure thee. It is ſince Philip I. King
oſ France, that his Succeſſors have practiſed it. Valentinc
Creatr/Ih from the County of Wate'ſora', ſo much known and
called by Boﬂc, " The Slrohcr," cured many by Touching;
particularly the Duke of Buckingham, and ſeveral of the Firﬅ
People in England. Doctor Gaſ'm', at Ranſhanc, in 1774,
made ſeveral Cures.
ANlMAL
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY
AND
MAGNETISM.
GENERAL IDEAS'ON MOTION,
OTION exiﬅs in all parts of the univerſe:
all bodies are endowed with a certain de
gree of it, in proportion to their diﬀerent organi
zations.
None are in a perfect ﬅate oſ reﬅ.
It- is, however, impoſiible to imagine how* me
tiOn deﬅroys itſelf.
Any round body falls oﬀ a table, rolls on a chair,
falls on the ﬂoor; what happens in conſequence of
it? Is it at reﬅ? No; its motion meets with
an obﬅacle ; however, it ﬅill exiﬅs z or, at leaﬅ,
it loſes the motion of acceleration, to preſerve
only that ofits own gravitation ; it has communi
cated the former to the body which it has touched,
from
* We underﬅand here by motion, the ſingle deplacl'g of
a body, though ﬅrength, which is the principle of its motion,
may be communicated, propagated, but can never be de
ﬅroyed.
[8]
"Wi'ﬁ
"-_-_
-_H
'
ﬂow-un
"
p
.-..-.
..
-._-..-.-.
.
q_
."'.'*I"'
"I!.
'UN'K
J
from whence it will ſpread in the matter, and be
ſo far divided as to have become inſenſible.
Man is not endowed with the power of diſcern
ing the eſſential attributes of things, and it is only
through exiﬅence and privation that we conceive
any diﬅinct idea of them. lt is thus by the idea
of the night that we conceive any diﬅinct idea of
the day, and 'vice verſe. For, were we always to
perceive the light, that continual perception could
not be felt 5 at leaﬅ, we could not be conſcious of
it, nor be able to give it any proper appellation.
It is only by reaſon of this narrowneſs of our fa
culties, that we are acquainted with motion; hav
ing ſeen ſome beings moving, and others at reﬅ, we
have inferred, that motion did not always exiﬅ.
Suppoſe that all animate beings which live on
the ſurface of the earth, ſhould knock with their
feet at the ſame inﬅant, would they not produce an
additional motion ? A motion which could not
have been foreſeen in the laws which natural phi
loſophers have laid down. That motion alſo tends
towards the centre of the earth, but where does it
ﬅop? Where is it to be annihilated?
If animate matter then can produce irregular
motions, is not the centre wherein thoſe motions
end, alſo animated, that it may be proportionate to
thoſe
[9]
thoſe anomalies, and ſo reﬅore the equilibrium, and
force, that are-the preſervers of the world?
Further ; it is not neceſſary to pay any regard to
the motion impreﬅ by animate matter, to conclude
that which we look upon to be dead, becauſe it is
at reﬅ; for even the globe of the earth is animated ;
all things tend towards the centre of that globe;
and gravitation is in reality nothing more than an
impreﬅ motion towards a determinate direction. It
therefore muﬅ abſolutely follow, that thoſe moti
ons muﬅ be reﬂected with new directions from the
centre of the earth, or they muﬅ be deﬅroyed. But,
if it be true, that in the art of reaſoning, the ana
logy or method of ſimplifying the principle as much
as poſſible, is to be conſidered as the ſureﬅ way of
proceeding, we ſhall be authoriſed to think that
nature modiﬁes, alters, and diﬅributes, rather than
deﬅroys. Thus, as WC acknowledge in all organi
zed bodies, a faculty which divides, diﬅributes,'and
returns all thoſe motions, whoſe impreſſions they re
ceive, or rather which are communicated to them;
ſince we ſee that thoſe motions are never annihila
ted ; why ſhould we imagine that there is an incom
' prehenſible proceeding in nature, a ſecret quality
which we are not in want of? Why cannot we ſup:
poſe, that it operates upon ſpheres as well as upon
individuals ? _
If the known laws of heavineſs, or gravity, com<
munication of motion, &c. ſolely belong to inert
B _ mat
[10]
man
*-.
---
'n-d-
._._--,.
il"
VLHEW-d
waſ
.
_,-.-.I'."'
-_
-
matter, and animated matter can arbitrarily act up
On it, all animated forces, therefore, will only be *
troubleſome, and all the univerſe will be in con
fuſion. * i
ſi Iſ then all matter be conſidered as being anima
ted, the phoenomena oſ the whole world will not
be more extraordinary than thoſe of the human bo
dy, nor could the beﬅ phyſiologiﬅs explain a ſingle
moment of their own exiﬅence, if they did not ad
mit an animated principle to be the preſerver of it,
and which, by laws unknowu to them, compenſates
for all irregularities of paſſions and impreſſions.
Now, without proceeding any farther in thoſe
relations and analogies, (the paths through which
it would be a diﬃcult taſk to purſue) let us only
obſerve that, whatever can be conſidered as the
centre of the action, or as performing the function
of receiving, diﬅributing, or ſending back the mo
tion, always ſeems to be productive of a more ſub
tile matter, more elaborate, more unlike matter in
ert, and more near to that which we conceive by
animated matter.
i' Let us, for example, only mention tranſpiration,
emanations, thoſe currents eﬅabliſhed betwcen the
beings which lead us to imitation, and make us
yield to ﬅrange motions, ſuch as paſiions, ſympa
thies, antipathies, &e. even Animal Electricity and
Magnetiſm, which ſeem to be the Great Oceans
from which the animated matter verily ſprings.
' Nature
[Ill
- Nature thus leads us to a way oſ thinking, which
encourages us to believe that the interior part of
the globe is a grand receptacle of motion, and con
ſequently a grand centre of activity. Since, there
fore, in out principles there are no annihilated mo
tions, what hinders us from acknowledging that
both Electricity and Magnetiſm are the produce of
That interior elaboration; the particular ſecretions
of the globe; the principles of the life of that vaﬅ
individual, and which ſhew its correſpondencc with
all the inhabitants of it? '
Suppoſing now, that general correſpondence of
motions to_ be well eﬅabliſhed, kept up by a ſubtile -
matter, more or leſs animated, ſhould we not then
more eaſily explain the duration and equality of ce
leﬅial motions? For, on one hand, it is a little re
pugnant to reaſon, to imagine an abſolute vacuum ;
and on the other, all matter, however cloſely it
may be kept, 'implies the idea, of friction, and Con
ſequently a diminution of motion; hence we ſhall
ﬁnd ourſelves greatly comforted by an hypotheſis,
which will ſhew the very cauſe of motion in the
ﬂuids', which ought to ﬅop it; and the diﬀerence
will proceed from the principle alone, that, inﬅead
Of conſidering the ſpace as ﬁlled up with a dead
and paﬃve matter, we ſuppoſe it conﬅantly traver
(ed by currents, which both preſerve the motion,
and keep it up.
B 2 Every
_ _v__ V. . > r* ' ' ſſ_j'-i
' _ , .,- .
te; -- m
g,
ſ . ' . _ Every motion may be communicated from one
r body to another, and to ſome parts of matter, and
increaſe that which it had before, in conſormity
-
-.-_
_-
.
-*-.-.._
-_
L- ' however to the law given to it, by the particular
, e arrangement of the body which receives it, unleſs
h r ſi the bodies are exactly alike in form, texture, and
t. ﬁ '. ' , bulk.
ſ rl Therefore the encreaſing of motion communica
ted by a man to a tree, by Magnetiſing it, (vide
the laﬅ part, bow to Magnclz'ﬂe a tree,) in order
to become a centre of motion to repair his phyſical
L ſi aberrations, will be received by the tree, in its way,
wad
K
X and returned from the tree to the man, who will
Þi'- A ' alſo return it in his own manner, on account of the
b x . particular properties of their diﬀerent organs.
i ii L ctſſ Of all the magnetic actions (which conſidered
' - ſi attentively, may be looked upon alſo as nearly con
nected with Electricity, not accidentally but eſſen
tially univerſal) nothing repreſents achain of mo
t ' tion more calm and gentle, and more relative to the
g ' ſi 'reparation of the Animal Oeconomy, than a healthy
t ' tree in ſummer time z* becauſe, being continually
! _ placed in the ſphere of activity, which has operated
1 - its gradual growth, alimented by the ſame ground,v
i ' - and formed in the ſame manner, the general Cur
tents of the World operate upon it with equal eſ)
'; ' - _ - ſorts,
'In
ﬁrﬅ
.
I p. 'P The Trees of the Marquiſſes of [haſ-gar, Yi'ﬃzrd, and
many others, are well known.
-
'IIF
*'
'
[13]
ſorts, ſo that it exiﬅs without any ſeeming pertur
bation; the eﬀects produced carry with them a
ﬅamp of the ſame character and criſis by which the
diſcovery of illneſs is produced ; by that means it
ſeldom extends beyond ſleeping ; ſo that the Pati
ents are deprived of their other faculties, only yield
ing to the repairing action of nature.
It is eaſy to conceive that the action which ſhall
proceed from this tree, being added to that which
man is poſſeſſed of, will re-eﬅabliſh in hſiis being
the equilibrium, which is never interrupted but by
the decreaſing of motion, occaſioned by divers ab
errations, and which being attacked in the origin
of their formations, ſhall be the more eaſily diſolv
ed, and ſhall oppoſe leſs reﬁﬅance.
. After having demonﬅrated that from the combi
- nation of the diﬀerent parts of matter proceeds a
tone of motion analogous to the animal economy,
it is neceſſary to ſhew how man is compoſed, a be
ing ſo extenſive in his primitive properties, that he
ſeems to have beenborn merely to preſide over the
other beings, which are all ſubmitted to him who
is endowed with the faculty of thinking, judging,
&c. and in whom are united, as in a common cen
tre, all motions of ſurrounding bodies, and who re
acts, in his turn, on the ſame bodies with more or
leſs energy, in conſequence of his will, and the na
tural tone of his organs.
-It
my v_i
'Ft-'Numſ-
'
iſ
w
I£.-m"_
'
"1!
'
'III
--
-
[he]
It is a long time ſince the law of the ﬅrongeﬅ
has been looked upon as the ſaſeﬅ, though it is not
always the moſtjuﬅ: But it is now time to explain,
it according to the ﬅrictneſs of the exception.
. l
Man, in a ﬅate merely phyſical', like all other
parts of matter, has the motion proper to his or
ganization, ſubordinated to the general motion
which he obeys in the ﬅate of his ſuſpenſive intel
Iectual faculties. Like them he unfolds himſelf,"
J .encreaſes, declines, and ﬁniſhes by being reﬅored
to the general maſs, in order to be decc npoſed z
but the ﬅability of his exiﬅence depends on the
harmonic parts forming his body, ſome of which
may be vitiated. In that ﬅate of illneſs he ﬁnds him
ſelf deprived of a proper portion of faculty which
renders him inferior to man in health; he is not
in equal aﬃnity with all the bodies that ſurround
him, nor acceſlible to the fame' external quantityv
of animal fluid. The farther he advances in a ﬅate
of illneſs, the more his inequality of motion dimin
iſhes -, his currents weaken, his humours encreaſe,
coheſion is eﬅabliſhed, want of harmony takes
place, and he dies,
If the decreaſe of mocion produce the eﬀects;
the increaſe of motion analogous, communicated .
in time, might have overcome the ﬁrﬅ obﬅacle,
and the return of health might have been undoubt
edly obtained.
of
[15]
Oſall the repairing or reﬅorative motions ofman
inv a ﬅate of illneſs, none ſeems to be; more appro
priated than that which he receivesct from his like
in a ﬅate oſ health 5 becauſe coming from the ſoeus
communicated to him, it takes a proper direction,
with all the analogous character neceſſary for its
admiſſion.
The motion of man in a ﬅate oſ health will be
then powerful in conſequence of the latter'sweak
neſs, (who receives more than he gives 5) but that
empire of ﬅrength being only employed to eradi
cate illneſs, inﬅead of oppreﬃng the individual,
that great function of humanity ſhall be a ſituation
more adapted for ſociety, conſequently men muﬅ
be better by poſſeſſing the means to render them
ſelves happy. .
In order th better to unfold thoſe proceedings,
I muﬅ be permitted to employ ſome compariſon:
which perhaps may appear ﬅrange, but which will
tend to elucidate phyſically, thoſe proceedings by
the exiﬅence of a doubtleſs ﬂuid, ridiculouſly denied
_ by many, becauſe they do not ſee it.
The ſeruginous matter oſthe magnetic currents of
the world, will acquire a property they had not be
ſore, and- become Magnets or Load-ﬅones by the
mere operation of nature.
In
'I
'Wr'ﬁ'l'n
.
--_-
-*U-*
.._
-
.
--,.
-._
-.-
-
.--
-.--
..
yr
..-IH*
I'-
.
MW
-
..,\._,,Q,,
[ 16 ]
In many caſes, art can imitate nature, and even
ſurpaſs it; (as a proof) an Artiﬁcial Magnet is
ſpeciﬁcally more active than a natural one.*
Nature, conﬅant in her proceedings, by giving
'a magnetic virtue to a quantity of iron, does not
determine its poles, but in the points which are di
ametrically oppoſite, and in a right line. It is na
tural to conclude from hence, that nature has an
uniform manner' of acting, but directed by the
knowledge oſman, ſhe is capable of encreaſing that
power, and of eoncentrating, by her ﬅrength, in a
determined point.
That there exiﬅs an inviſible ﬂuid from its action
upon iron is well demonﬅrated. Is it to be ſup
poſed, that the greatand ſupreme Architect' of the
World, in his vaﬅ and profound views, would have
created the general currents, which apparently rule
the univerſe, only to put in activity a part of mati
ter, called iron, merely to enable us to-form Arti
ﬁcial Magnets, which, in their turn, ſhould be only
empowered to inﬅruct us how the tendency and
reciprocity of the action of bodies one towards the
Other are exerciſed, as has been demonﬅrated.
In that great hypotheſis, let us examine if the
parts
u
.
-.'-q,
-.
* I have ſeen at my friendls, Mr. L'Abbe le Noble's, at
Pan), an Artiﬁcial Magnet of his compoſition, the activity
of'which was ſo ﬅrong, as to carry more than 300 weight.
'
' .- guy;"
__ . A. A x
NA.
Evil
parts of matter are not formed in ſuch amanner as
to participate of the ſame advantage.
Of all the metallic matters incloſed in the boſom
of the earth, none is ſo much diﬀuſed as iron ; al
moﬅ all bodies ſubmitted to a certain chemical'
proceſs, furniſh a quantity, more or leſs conſideraz
ble, of- this metal.
Vegetables contain ſome alſo; andit may be
eﬅabliſhed as a principle in animal ﬂuid; a proof'
of which appears in a certain quantity being ex
tracted from blood. Iron enters in the compoſi
tion of man, and is combined in ſuch a manner,
that ſome people" have the power of moving the'
needle of the compaſs, by only approaching the
ﬁnger near it. * '
From thence it is eaſy to conclude, that the ge
neral currents poſſeſs the quality oſputting iron in
action. ' '
Man, in a good ﬅate oſ health, will be ﬅrongly,
ſaturated with that matter, being expoſed in a regu
lar manner td the action of thoſe ſame currents, and
ought to acquire magnetic virtue, and conſequently
more powerful means of acting upon his like, in no
weak ﬅate. ln
* Mrs. H--, an Iriſh lady, in London, did, in '786, be
fore many ladies and gentlemen, move the needle of the com
paſs, by approaching hcr thumb to it. Some other perſon'
have had the ſame power.
[18]
He,
a
'Hi-
Y'MF-'ca
-
P
*_-_ſi
ſi
ſ
q.--
-_--
'--
_.
-_..
-*
J"
-.'
Ill.
'IN-ſi
-
1..9-
-
In this circumﬅance, the will oſ him who gives
muﬅ be abſolutc, it is that which more particularly
determines the ﬂuid to be directed with vehemence
towards the extremities from whence it eſcapes ;
becauſe, in a motion which tends to make a vacuum,
all contiguous parts are forced to accumulate near
the place where it operates.
From this principle, a ſick man may be in a ﬅate
of imperfection compared to a ﬅeel bar, and is in
that ﬅate of imperfection, becauſe he has not re
ceived the magnetic operation ; and a healthy man
able to magnetiſe, reſembles that of an Artiﬁcial
Magnet, the harmony being completely unfolded,
becauſe the regularity of its ﬁbres, in which the
magnetic eﬃuvia is always accumulating, has de
termined the action upon it. ſi
Conſequently, to magnetiſe a man, or impreg- -
nate a piece of ﬅeel with a magnetic power, is very
nearly the ſame thing, in communicating the action
of the ſamectﬂuid, received according to the law of
the diﬀerent modiﬁcations of two diﬀerent bodiesﬂ
It may happen for a time, that bodies acting will
ceaſe to- produce their eﬀects upon the receiving
one ; that point of time in the ﬅeel bar, is the pe
riod of the, abſolute regularity of its ﬁbres or pores,
which ſhall produce the reciprocal equilibrium ; _
and in man, is that when the obﬅacles are van
quiſhed by the eﬀorts of the ﬂuid, and where the
parts
A
'[ 19 ]l
parts being in harmony together, the reſult is an
_ inſenﬁbility to the action; * I _
This cirCumﬅance being more or leſs diﬅant;
pattakes of the nature of oþbﬅacles in the place they
occupy, and accordihg to the antiquity of'thcirex-ſi
iﬅence. Two wholeſbme perſons, though ofa weak
conﬅitution, will by degrees obtain ﬂrengthſiby act
ing harmoniouſly one with another; bedauſe, by
regulating their ﬁbres alternately,, they will render
them ﬁtter for receiving a greater' portion of the
vital ﬂuid. ' ' *"ſſ
'1,.' a
The ſame phnenomectnon takes place between two
bars, weakly impregnated with a magnetic power,
by ﬅrengthening them alternately one by the other,
their power is inſenſibly increaſed.
There exiﬅ many ways of magnetiſing, which
ought all to be ſubordinated to circumﬅances, to
diﬀerent maladies, to ſenſations of the patient, and
to the re-action of the magnetiſer, which I ſhall ex
plain ſſhereaſter. Experience and obſervation alone
can enable one to make a juﬅ application of them ;
and I repcat it, imprudence is very dangerousﬂ'
In ſuch a caſe, power united with ignorance may
be truly compared to a loaded piﬅol in the hands
of a child.
Action
* Iwould never adviſe a trial to put people who are in
good health into a Criﬁs," to pleaſe others ; for you may put
them in a ﬅate of Catalepſy or.Epilepſy, and they'may never
be cured. C a
_w."
.
q__._
-.
-_ﬂ"
Ill"
-ſſ*'*K*
a i
.
"I"
ﬁxina-
-
'Weig
a I
..-.-....__
._l
tſiq
I
..
.__
[20]
ActctiOn'and're-action 'are'commonly more ſenſi
ble at a certain diﬅance than' in"too'near a poſition 3
becauſe that reciprocal ſenſations are confounded,
and have no diſtincti'ye character whilﬅ paſſing
through the mcdium aſ the ſort-ounding ﬂuid, of
which all the niolpcules are'elaﬅic; thoſe ſerving
as conductdrs tq_action_s,'act again improportiop tg
obﬅacle: intended to be overcome. ' - -
I ſiltlſoſirnetirnes happens, that though the exiﬅencſie
of aſſdiſeaſe b*e evidehdy'demonſtrated by'ce'rtain
uncquiyocal ſigns, yet the action of the univerſal
agcnt in itsrimmediate application, 'is inſe'nﬁble tQ
the patient.
'In ſuch a caſe, 'we ought to think that this ﬂuidſi
-i_mPerc_eptibly paſſes on the local vice, becahſe oſ
obﬅacles being too ancient, and conſequently in a
Idateoſtoo conſiderablecoheſion, that the maſs oſthe
ﬂuid molecules exiſting between the 'patient and the
magnetiſer, is not ﬅrong enough in proportion to
thereſiſl'ance of coheſion to be overcome. Then,
after having been in communication with thepatient,
by touching, one directs the extremities ofthe hands
over the parts which are ſuppoſed to be aﬀected.
In this ſituation, with ſome degree ofattention to
particular ſenſations, one muﬅ feel at the extremities
of his ﬁngers, a re-actiOn of heat or cold, or ſupine
'neſs, which ſhall give 'notice to the operator of the
eﬀect produced, of the particular ſeat of re-action
andv
[ 21 1
and diﬅance he muﬅ be at, 'to Operate with the
'greateﬅ eﬀect, by drawing back'as he feels the in
creaſe of action, and advancing near theipoint of
the ſuperior eﬀort, when he feels the diminution of
the action. This phoeſinomenon is'produced merely
becauſe at that diﬅance there exiﬅs, between the
tnagn'etiſed andmagnetiſer, 'a ſuﬃcient 'Column of
ﬂuid'put into' yiblrſiatio'n by the 'combination'of the
"action, and the ahſolute will of the magnetiſer;
Which directing "and accumulat'ing 'all ﬂuid mole
'cule in'the ſame pdirit, determines in this circum
ﬅance all the patient's ſenſatlon's. This mode oſif
operating ﬅill re-unites the advantage of' command
ing and changing atſple'aſure the centre of activity,
When it is perceptible that by means oſ re-action,
'it'tnay produce a ﬅronger pertu'rbation, which it is
'alv'v'ays material-toavoidſi ſſ ' ſi
From all that has been ſaid, I muﬅ conclude that,
ihotionis the principle'of ſithe p'ermanent exiﬅence
of the univerſc. ' *
From 'the combin'at'lon of many partial motions,
the reſult is a more cOnſiderable one. *
Animated bodies are particular' centres'oſmation,
þu't ſome oſ them, like vegetable ones, are depend
ent on general motions. ſi *
That man, may, according to his pleaſure, con
qzdict, or appropriate to himſelf, thoſe diﬀerent
, ' ' t ' kinds
>
i
- foam,
H
A
ſi
'4.__
-**-'
UU'QÞUWMW.._J..__
__-
_
i_
l-
.._-_.--_.
-
....._.
-.I'
iw-ﬀ1'l
r - kinds of motions to a certain degree, that he may
' legally either increaſe or decreaſe them in a deter;
.
' ' '
mined paint. p] )
_ -
c-
-.._-
-._ r' ' That bodies act and re-act upon each other;
r ' That from ſuch an action and re-action well direct,
i . ed, there reſults the harmony which prolongs their
1 " exiﬅence, by reﬅoring the tone to thoſe parts in
which it might have ſuﬀered ſome diminution.
That the above circumﬅance is more or leſs diﬅant,
in preportion to the ﬅrength employed, and the
reﬁﬅance oſ obﬅacles. i '
i One muﬅ not think, from what has been ſupe'r;
ﬁcially explained, it follows, that one may, without
ilanger, yield to the practice of this Science. That
matter is too extenſive, not to require a deep diſ.
cernmcnt and ſound ﬅudy. ' '
'*:"'
The honeﬅ man, actuated with the deſire of ree
lieving his fellow-creatures, will be ſenﬁble, that,
previous to his yielding to the impulſe oſ his own
heart, he muﬅ dedicate ſome time to obſerve with
p - - patience the eﬀects of the ﬂuid whichv he is poſſeſſ
. ' r ed oſ, and ﬅill more the method oſ tempering its
action in diﬃcult occurrences. It is there that the
variety oſ caſes productive of' illncſs, oﬀer to the
attentive eye various means of inﬅruction. i
'I,
ﬁſhe'-
-
,-"'*'
"He
'
Te'
[23]
To þut a PERSON in a CRISIS and _ '
SOMJVAMBULISM, at a Dſſance. 1 i ,
O magnetiſe, or treat a perſon at a diﬅance, is I
not impoſſible. The manner of' doing this is
as follows : The ſaculty ofourſoul, thought, or idea,
can perceive, contemplate, and unite itſelf to any ' - l
object preſent, diﬅant, viſible, or inviſible.-Thar
it has action upon matter is well demonﬅrated; it
acts immediately upon the viviſying, electric, or _
magnetic ﬁuid,-and by its 'will determines it to be ' . '
directed upon ſuch and ſuch a part. We know " ,
that our ſoul acts upon our body, and forces any .
part of it to move in any direction, according to its
will.-This being the caſe, we may reaſonably be- 1 ' ,
lieve that it may act as well upon merely organical i *
matter, as upon animated bodies. The thought, or
ſoul, goes to any diﬅance 5' no obﬅacles can reſiﬅ
it. It arrives and unites itſelf, by a ſympathetic
power, to any object it wiſhes, without a maﬅer of - <_ 5
ceremonies; neither the ſize ofthe body, itsﬅrength, '_
or ﬁgure impede-all give way 5 the union is
made
do
K '
I
"-
'*-'
1i=;'.:h-'""_-
ſ
l
* The diﬅanc: of body has nothing to do with the ſoul.
--Vidc " Lord Baton': Sihm Silwarm, (you th Tra'ſſmﬃm aſ
9 . .
affrlſfa
'
-._-_-
n-mo-
-
[;=4]
It.
'IN-'-
.-
w"
"
made in an inﬅant-the will, and the will only is
the cauſe of it, becauſe it directs the ﬂuid towards
the diſeaſes and aﬀected 'of/cart', by ﬁxing them in
your imagination, as much as it is PQﬃblC, and by
that mean it will force the magnetic ﬂuid to touch
and to penetrate, to aſſgreat diﬅance, any bodies to
which the ſoul is willing to unite herſelf, and to
re-eﬅabliſh the animal oeconomy, of which ſhe is
the principle that cannot be deﬅroyed.
Theſe reﬂections ſhew the poſſibility, and the
mean made uſe of, to treara perſon at a diﬅance
of which experience will ſhew the'reality, and an
ingenious mind may make many curious experi
ments, and repeated trial' will convince him.
To treat a perſon ata diﬅance, from one houſe
to another, is poﬃble-provided you have ſeen the
perſon before, and been in aﬃnity, or put him in a
Cri/ir. The manner you do this, is to know where
the perſon is, and ﬁx the hour by your watch, and
have ſome friends with the patient to divert him :
you muﬅ be alone in aroom to avoid any noiſe, or
any" thing to diﬅract the attention ofyour mind. In
that poſition you paint the perſon in your imagina
tion-you repreſent in your idea the part which you
ſuppoſe aﬀected, you may feel it within yourſelf,
and you treat in the ſame manner as if the perſon
was before you.-That ſympathy of body and mind
which exiﬅs between you and him, will produce a p
. Criſi: and ScmnambulL-"m
To
J
To raﬀe the ARM or an- of a Paxson awake.
Cauſe the perſon to ſet his back to the North,
let him lay his hand paſlive upon the table, and in
an eaſy poﬅure. Sit oppoſite to him, lay your
hand ﬂat on the table, about half an inch from his,
raiſe your hand gently about one inch from his, as
far as the ſhoulder, bring your hand down again,
and repeat the operation ſeveral times, with your
abſolute will, you will perceive the ﬁngers diverg
ing and riſing from the table, then proceed again
without touching, and the hand will follow yours
by attraction, as high as you pleaſe. lf youido
not ſucceed, it may be owing to the perſpiration of
the hand, or the perſon is too muſcular, and you
are too weak to have any eﬀect. Raiſe the hand,
by putting a cup or ſnuﬀ-box under, you will
ſooner ſucceed, or put an Artiﬁcial Magnet in your
ſleeve, South Pole towards the perſon, put another
in his, North Pole towards you. In the year I 783.
I ſaw Dr. Mdmcr raiſe the arm and leg together of
a perſon that way. I have ſeen him, and Father
Hemicr raiſe a perſon up from his chair: Cauſe a
perſon ſit eaſy on a chair, ﬁt oppoſite; and with
both your hands extended, as if you was going to
receive ſomebody in your arms, drawing towards
yourſelf, repeat often ; if the perſon is of a weak
conﬅitution you will ſoon ſucceed. I have often
raiſed a perſon in Somnambuliſm, and made him
D walk
a
e
.-w'*1r.,.-'-.*clmwuz
-.
--'
,.,'a..l
'a
[26]
walk towards me. After you have raiſed the hand
of a perſon awake once or twice, cauſe him to lay
his hand on a table, retire to another room, and
paint the perſon in your idea, do the ſame as if the
perſon was before you ; that ſympathy of mind and
body, between you and the perſon, will make you
raiſe his hand.
The leg may be raiſed in the ſame manner, by
putting it upon any thing to raiſe it up from the
ground, and muﬅ be extended. Both arms and
legs muﬅ be rubbed afterwards, as they are numb.
Theſe experiments are well known, and many
of my pupils are able to perform them', *
[ſhall
CHAPTER II.
I ſhall explain more minutely haw to Cure
many Drsaasas eþaratcly, upon reaſonable
Principles.
HERE is an univerſal ﬂuid which ﬁlls all
1 ſpace. Every animated body is endowed
with a certain quantity of electric or animal ﬂuid.
There exiﬅs an attraction, or ſympathy and anti
pathy between animated bodies. The univerſal
currents of the univerſal fluid, are the cauſe and
exiﬅcnce of bodies. One may accelerate thoſe cur
rents in a body, and produce Criſis and Samnambu
iſſm, which is done by acting reciprocally upon one
another, by increaſing the currents acroſs their inter
ﬅices or Pores,v in conſequence of the ahſolute will
of the operator-a
As there exiﬅs a general and reciprocal gravita
tion of all celeﬅial bodies to each other, ſo there
exiﬅs a particular and reciprocal gravitation of the
conﬅitutive parts of the earth towards the whole,
and of that whole towards each of its parts,
D 2 That
' i
'w- ;
za
..ll
'l
i
l
l
He
.
--.-.
,_
"
'I'Le
Lo'
[23]
'-T-'
That reciprocal action of all theſe bodies is ope
rated by an imperceptible oapor ﬂowing in and out,
as you ſee in a Loadﬅone or Artiﬁcial Magnet,
forming an outſide atmoſphere; it alſo produces
currents in a more or leſs direct manner, according
to the analogy of bodies. That perſon who is in
a good ﬅate of health, and of a ﬅrong conﬅitution,
can act moﬅ eﬀectually on a ſickly map,--the
power of man in a good ﬅate of health will then be
more powerful, in conſequence of the latter's weak
neſs, who receives more than he gives , it will in
creaſe the circulation, and produce beneﬁcial
eﬀects.
The reſpective poſition of two beings acting on
one another is not indiﬀerent 5 to judge what that
poſition ſhould be, we ought to conſider each being
as a whole, compounded of diﬀerent parts, of which
each poſſeſſes a form, or particular tonical move
ment. It is of courſe, by that means, eaſily under
ﬅood, that two beings have over each other the
greateﬅ inﬂuence POﬃblC, when they are ſo placed
that their analogous parts act on one another'in the
moﬅ harmonical manner. It is neceſſary that the
perſon who ſubmits to be treated is willing, as well
as that the operator's mind muﬅ be abſolute, and
think of nothing but of the diﬀerent ſenſations he
then feels. '
Therefore, in order that two perſons may act on
each other in the ﬅrangeﬅ manner poſſible, they
muﬅ
[2911
muﬅ be placed oppoſite each other; from North to
South is the beﬅ; you turn your patient's face to
wards the Soutb 3 you may treat in other directions,
according to your idea, and circumﬅances. In that
oppoſite poſition your atm'yþheres are joining; and
you may be conſidered as forming but one whole,
acting in an harmonic manner. When man ſuﬀers,
all the action oflife is directed towardshim in or
der to deﬅroy the cauſe of ſuﬀering 5 likewiſe when
two perſons are acting on each other, the whole ac
tion of that union acts on the diſordered parts with
a force proportioned to the increaſe of the maſs. It
may, therefore, be in general aſſerted, that the ac
tion of Animal Electricity and Magnetiſm, &e. in
creaſes the pain, in proportion to the maſſes.
lt is poſſible to direct the action of Animal Elec
tricity and Magnetiſm, &c. more particularly on
an individual part, by ﬁxing your idea and direct
ing the ﬂuid uponſſ the part aﬀected. Our arms
may be conſidered as conductors to the animal ﬂuid,
and ſerve to attract or repel according to our will,
and eﬅabliſh a kind of continuity between bodies.
It follows, from what has been ſaid on the moﬅ ad
vantageous poſition of two beings acting on each
other, in order to maintain the harmony of the
whole, one ought to be oppoſite, at a little diﬅance
from the perſon 5 in that poſition you are in aﬃni
ty with your patient, your two utmo/þbern are join
ed, it ſhews the oppoſition of poles in the human
_' body'
'
I
-*
-
"N'
TBſi-ﬂiiflm_n_
...r..
p
ſ
o
p
P
.-..
'I"*'
I
[ 30 ' ]
body, and is nearly the ſame as thoſe which may
be obſerved in the Loadﬅone, or Artiﬁcial Magnet,
PARACELSUS, as well as many other anatomiﬅs,
have admitted poles in man. Mr. George Adam',
in his Treatiſe on Magnetiſm, juﬅly ſays, " in ſome
" future period it may be diſcovered that moﬅ bo-,
" dies are poſſeſſed oſ a polarity, as well as one di
U rection relative to the vﬂrious aﬃnity of the ele
" ments oſ which they are compounded." The '
better to conceive the poles of the human body,
we ought to conſider man divided into two parts,
by a line drawn from the top to the pubis ; all the
joints of the leſt part may be conſidered as poles
oppoſite to thoſe correſponding therewith ; the ﬂuid
paſſes out more ſenſibly, and in a greater abundance
from the extremities, as thoſe extremities are con
ſidered as poles oppoſite to the right, and are the
beﬅ conductors to the animal ﬂuid.*
You may give polarity to animate and inanimate
_ bodies; that is to ſay, to increaſe an action to a de
gree which they had not beſore, only by ſriction,
very nearly reſembling that which you give to a
piece oſ ﬅeel beſore it becomes a magnet, except
that it will not be ſo palpable. (vide the laﬅ-part)
You may alſo change the poles in the human body
'pretty near the ſame as you change thoſe oſ a mag
net.
J-___I--
* Many ſhppoſe that if we could be balanced like a mari
ner's compaſs, our head would incline towards the 'Northc-H
Many people ſleep with their heads towards the North.
[31]
net. You may' alſo ﬅrengthen or increzſe the ac
tion oſ Animal Electricity and Magneti m, by an
imate and inanimate bodies, as you may increaſe the
action ofan Artiﬁcial Magnet by adding more mag
nets, provided the poles are contrary z therefore ev
ery thing is ﬁlled in the univerſe.by means of an
univerſal ﬂuid, in which all bodies are immerſed,
and conſequently all beings touch one another in
conſequence of the continual circulation by which
the currents of the magnetic fluid ﬂow out and paſs
in ; in conſequence of this, you may aﬀect a perſon
at a diﬅance in the ſame room, provided he is of a
weak habit of body, and has been in a Crzﬁ: before,
you put the column of air into vibration, which ex
iﬅs between the perſon you treat and yourſelf, that
will aﬀect him, as is ſeen at a concert in Wcﬅmin
ﬅ'r Abbey, or other places. '
In order to be in aﬃnity or harmony with your
patient, you muﬅ touch him by the hand, as there
is a circulation which forms itſelf between you and
him, and tends to an equilibrium, it is generally
by that mean eaſier to take your patients out of their'
Criſes: through want of that precaution, I have
ſeen ſeveral perſons who could not take them out.ſi
You next hold up both your hands parallel to the
head, and bring them gently down as far as the pu
bis; you may follow the direction of the nerves ;
then ﬁx your hands upon the diapbmgm or ﬅomach,
where lie the greateﬅ abundance of nerves z you
' may
[32]
\
may put your thumbs upon the Flexus', and put the
nerves in motion 5 you may alſo ﬁx one hand
upon the ﬅomach, and draw the other towards you,
by that mean you attract or repel at pleaſure.
There are various ways oſ manipulation, which the
operator makes uſe ofaccording to circumﬅances. If
you wiſh to procure ſleep ſoon, change your poſi
tion ;' get either to the right ſide of your patient,
or left 5 in that poſition, you ﬁx one of your hands
before the head, and the other behind ; keep them
there with all your might, till you feel ſome heat
in the palm oſ your hand ; if the perſon is not in
clined to ſleep, you muﬅ charge the head in diﬀe
rent directions, by ſhutting your hands as if you
were boxing-then you open them quick, and this
you repeat often; the perſon then feels a drowſineſs,
-You muﬅ keep your hands in oppoſition as he
ſore; by this mean the animal ﬂuid gets into the
abſorbent veſſels-acts alſo upon the nerves, which
ﬅimulates the body, and produces a Criſir. Iſ you
ſee the patient too much agitated, get oppoſite to
him, and bring both you hands downwards from
head to foot, or as if you were to fan a perſon, and
getting backwards, it will compoſe him.-Then
you ſeek ſor the cauſe and place of the illneſs 3 or
you hold the perſon's hand, and aſk him where he
feels pain, as it is increaſed by treating : if he does
not anſwer your queﬅions properly, it is a ſign he
is not in a perfect ﬅate of Sam'mmbulym ; you muﬅ
keep him aſleep longer without ſpeaking to him
you then ſeek for the ſeat of the diſeaſe, by extend
lng
r ﬃ ﬃb-I 'FLLT
Ilii-ma.-.. _-'**__'- I T-
r . __ _ ._ - __:.*;M-F- -\
. Kiiﬃ
[ 33, 1, . \ * '. if
ing your hand at a little'diﬅance ﬁ-om 'his body, ' i
beginning from head to foot 3 if your ſenſations are . -- .\
good, youmay feel, with a little attention, within 3
yourſelf', through ſympathy, pains in the ſame part
as where the per-ſon is aﬀected-or you may feel at
the endvoſ your ﬁngers a heat, if it is an inﬂamma
tion or obﬅruction ; iſyou feel a coldneſs,._ it in .
the lymphatic veſſels ; iſ bilious, you feel a numb
neſs'i there are various Other ſenſation's, aecocding
to the diﬃcrenceoſcOnﬅitutions; theſe cixcumﬅances
will informyou where the diſeaſe lies-but by touch- ' z
- ing, which is the ſureﬅ way, 'you ſoon become eeijgain ſſ
of the ſeat and cauſe of thediſeaſe, which ſometimes -
lies in the oppoſite ſide to'the pain, particularly in ſi ' i
nen/ous aﬀections. After thus ﬁnding the-ſeal- of '
the diſeaſe, you may touch* the part aﬀected, or- * ,
charge it as you do the head, by that jmeans you _
keep up the ſymptomatical pain, till youhaVe rcn- ſi i
dercd xit critical-you ſecond theeﬀort of nature \
againﬅ the Cauſe of the diſeaſe, which actsii-kea ' ' >
ﬅimulus, and will produce-a ſalutary Cxiſis, ſibyput-._
ting- the whole frame innﬂion, which will, remove ,
any diſeaſeproceedingſromobﬅructions,or, the like;_ Q _
after that-tiichacient ﬁndshimſelf compoſed; and _
' '-.:-') 1.' w: 5..uz. .:...'\ .ſi
' Touchingvisſieertainlyzverx'eﬂieaciou-s, iflwe. have the l ' _
Head-Ach, or other pains, we naturally rub the part, and it - I
eaſes it; but let another peſſrſjhxf do it,'i't has more virtue, .
on account of the greater quantity of aniniaigﬂuid, which!
will'expel inﬂammations and tumorſſs, by the-increaſe of heat
only,-which acts like a ﬅimulus. A _: 9; 3,
- E
..._*\._
.---'\-.-
L.
-'_n-
-_-
,-.
a
l
e
A
'l
\-
'\
'1"-
-M'ALW_-.
.-
.
_,._.,.ct_.-.
i
-_-_.--_--
-
I.
g.
in
,-*
on.
[3 34- ]
the cauſeof the diſorder diminiſhed. When the pa
tient is aſleep, you aſk him iſ it is time to take him
Out of it ; iſ he anſwers yes, draw your hands to
wards his head down to the feet, and rub the eyes
with your thumbs ſeveral times, then wave your
hand as iſ you were to fan a perſon who is too hot,
--move by degrees backwards, till he is recovered.
The cauſe of' moﬅ diſeaſes is an irritability
or few', debility, or obﬅructiom; by the ſlow
neſs or abolition of motion, it is an abﬅruction or
dcbility, and by its acceleration produces an irritaQ
bility, inﬂammation, and fever.
The ſeat of' thoſe diſeaſes is generally in the eﬀu
Ta, as the into/lines, theſpit-en, the liver, theepiploon,
'ne/enmy, the loim, &c- in women, theﬅomach, the
womb, and neighbouring parts. Theſe aberrations
or obﬅructiOns are an impediment in the circulation
oſ one part, 'which preſſes on the blood or lympha
tic veſſels, and on the nerves, which produce thoſe
ſpaſms, on account that the ﬂuid circulates (lowly ;
for that reaſon thoſe perſons are the ſooneﬅ aﬀected,
and pUt into a Crz'ſis, when they are labouring un
der thoſe maladies, and are generally cured by this
mode of treatment ; if thoſe veſſels preſs upon the
root of a nerve, the motion and ſenſibility of' the
correſponding parts are quite ſuppreſſed, as in an
apoplexy, palſy, &e. There is not a better con
ductor for the ant'mal ﬂuid than the nerves, as they -
are ſpread all over the body ; they abound more
- partr
[35]
Particularly in the diaphragm, ﬅomatical and um-
bilical plexur, where lie the moﬅ of the nerves,
which extend their branches (as a tree does its
branches and roots in the earth) all over the body.
' Many philoſophers have held the opinion that
the nerves are the ſeat of theſoul ; and it is pre
ſumed, that thro' the nervous ſyﬅem Somnambules are
enabled to ſee in the dark when their eyes are ſhut.
VVhen you treat a perſon you muﬅ follow as much
as poſſible the direction of the nerves 5 you may
treat at a ſmall diﬅance, and ﬁx your hand upon
the part aﬀected, and by motion you put the co
, lumn of air (which exiﬅs between you and your
patient) into vibration, which will cauſe an irrita
tion, and produce a Crz'ﬂr,
Many philoſophers make' uſe of conductors, ei
ther glaſs, ﬅeel, ſilver, or gold, about eight inches
long, they have a good eﬀect in ſome caſes, but an
_ Artiﬁcial Magnet is beﬅ, as it has more activity;
all this proceeds from the idea oſ the operator.
Mr. Meſmer tells us, " When you make uſe of con
V ductors, you muﬅ magnetiſe from right to left,"
that is, the poles are changed-I have repeatedly
produced the ſame eﬀect by treating from left to
right, except when I have put a perſon aſleep with
out a conductor v5 if while aſleep I magnetiſed from
right to leſt, they have gone into a CriſiJ,-others
have awaked. If you touch the forehead with your
right hand, you muﬅ put your left in oppoﬁtion
behind, and in the ſame manner to any other part
E 2 t of
n 1
\
\
'Ho-mlw
snu-
-.-'-
i
l
l_ -_-.-_.._
-
.
--.
__
[36]
vg
F-ﬁ
of the body, becauſe there is a re-action of ﬂuid
from one pole to the other, like a magnet z as Dr.
Meſmer repreſents the human body asct a'magnet;
if you eﬅabliſh the North to the right, the leſt be
comes the South, and the middle like the Equator,
which is without predominantactionz-I repeat it,
it is moﬅ advantageous ctto be oppoſite the perſon
you want to treat, in order to cure him eﬀectually.
Curing conſiﬅs in re-eﬅabliſhing the diﬅurbed har
mony-the general remedycis the application of the
animal ﬂuid, which ſerves to re-eﬅabliſh the equi
librium which is loﬅ in ſome part of the body, like
an ingenious machine, one wheel yvill prevent the
others from, going. If there is but one diſeaſe,
there is but one remedy: if motion is diminſhed, it
ought to be increaſed ; iſ there is too great irrita
bility, it o'ught to be decreaſed: as it is on ſolid
bodies that this ﬂuid operates, particularly on our
vi/rera, in order .t0 rectiſy them, as they are deſ
tined by nature to prepare, to diſſolve, and aﬃmi
late our humors, they ſhould be brought to their
equilibrium by any means whatever, either by em
ploying internal orexternal remedies; but you ought
to be very cautious how you adminiﬅer them, except
ſuch as the patients will order for themſelves, or
preſcribe for others, which are generally very ſim
ple, and oſ the vegetable kingdom. There are few
remedies taken internally which are good, becauſe
when received in the ﬅomach, and the ﬁrﬅ paſſages,
they experience the ſame claboration as our ali
ments, the parts oſ which analogous to our hum0urs
are
[437]
are aﬃmilated there by chyliﬁcation, and the hete-ſſ
rogeneous particles are expelled by the means of
excretions. Thoſe remedies which may be given
will prove to have often the eﬀects contrary to the
intentions oſ the preſcriber, becauſe moﬅ of them
are very aqueous and cathartick, ﬅimulate too much,
and will increaſe irritation, ſpaſms, &e. and produce
eﬀects diſcordant to harmony oſ the parts, which
ought to be eﬅabliſhed and reﬅored to their proper
equilibrium. Iſtreating is not ſuﬃcient to produce
vomiting, in the caſe of a perſon who has too much
putridity, or abundance oſ bile, which has been too
long ﬅanding ; then a gentle emetic is to be given,
or magneſia, if there is too much acid; if alkali is
predominant, order a ſolution of ſoluble tartar or
other acid, which you think will agree with your
patient. In caſe oſ a violent cholic and coﬅiveneſs,
or ſore throat, injections or clyﬅers are the beﬅ.
Theſe are the general remedies which ought to be
adminiﬅered to the patients, as in my opinion, all
thoſe preparations oſ minerals, were never intended
by nature for the human body. Modern practitioners
have, from an intereﬅed view, neglected the know
ledge oſ the vegetable kingdom, more adapted by
Providence ſor the human body. The diet oſ the
patient is whatever nature points out to him; ſhe
alone dictates what every man ought to followſ
becauſe ſhe ſeldom deceives us in" our manner oſ
living, iſ we would conſult'her. It is not what we
eat, nor the quantity, which does good-it is what
we digeﬅz and in regard to our-drink, it,is the
ﬁnall
a
'AE-v
'Qb-'M'n-q
15
.-'---_
_
_
ſ
-_
-.____
-__.-
._
't
,'--*
.
'
wl'. 38 l
ſmall quantity which is tonical. Animals by in.
ﬅinct will never touch any thing but what nature
has dictated to them: in this, their inﬅinct is far
ſuperior to our reaſon. Spirituous liquors alone
are forbidden, ﬅrong green tea without milk, coﬀee,
hot aliments, and the uſe of ſnuﬀ, becauſe it irritates
the pituitary membranes in the throat, the ﬅomach,
and the head, and will produce criſpation and irri
tation. The uſual drink may be water, with a bit
of toaﬅ in it, wine and water, or good rich wine,
old ſmall beer, good porter, lemonade, or diﬀerent
ſyrups-all theſe may be ordered according to the
caſe of the patient. The eating may be good broth,
either of beeſ, mutton, or veal, Chicken, boiled and
roaﬅed meat. Avoid any ſalt or ſat meat z make
uſe oſany ſallads, good ripe fruits, or ſuch like; gentle
exerciſe in the open air, either riding or walking.
Cold or warm baths are moﬅ excellent 5 the drink_
ing ofſome mineral waters is good :-in fact, a good
obſerver (though not a phyſician) may often cure
a great many people without the help of the ſaculty,
If you have a patient, and cannot move him
out of bed, gather round him as many healthy
perſons as you can, make them rub well their hands
-then make them hold one another, and commu
nicate to the patient ; this is what we call to form a
Chain,-by that you communicate to him the ani-,
mal fluid, which will viviſy him, if he is too much
debilitated. You may ſet him upon an inſulated
ﬅool, as when you electrify a perſon 5 you may ſet
ct him
Fl
[39]
him upon a chair, and make a healthy perſon ſit tip
'on the ſame chair back to back ; that is to ſay, to
ﬅrengthen or increaſe an action. You may mag
netiſe a tree in a garden ; you may have one in your
room, or a ſmall reſervoir ;-there are various ways,
which depend upon the idea of the magnetiſer.
You'r idea muﬅ be abſolute.-lt is generally held,
that a perſon who attempts to cure another, from
mere motives of humanity, will have more eﬀect
than a perſon who does it from intereﬅed views.
There are ſeveral ways of treating and curing;
for that eﬀect, much attention and prudence is
required ;-and a humane man, willing to do
good to his fellow-creatures, who labour under
any inﬁrmities, will never treat his patients in pub
lic, 'and make them walk in their ſleep, or try many
experiments. It is very 'well to convince in
credulous people of the eﬀects, but cannot do good
to the patient. I will alſo ſay, that a perſon cannoe
treat more than two or three patients in a day to
do themjuﬅice, or he muﬅ be of a very ﬅrong con
ﬅitution, and live well; and thoſe who do treat
more, ſeldom cure by magnetiſing alone ; the Pa
tients may fancy they have been cured. But in my
humble opinion, the imagination deludes ſuch pa
tients. There are many caſes, well known to the
learned, oſ cures being performed by the power of
the imagination, eſpecially in caſes where the diſor
der itſelf aroſe from the imagination ; and it is cer
tainly happy when ſuch eﬀects can be produced;
but
\
A
\.
'I'
VU_KWW*-dz
4
-
1.-
-I'-'
_
l
le,ſ.
"\ -*
_
-_
I
'HMMWW
[40]
but as this- has norhing to do with Animal Mag
netiſin, I beg leave to wave it. -
Suppoſe you have a patient who has av head
ach, you ſeat him in a chair, the back towards
the North,---you lit oppoſite to him,-you
put yourſelf in aﬃnity with him, as I have obſerv
ed before ; you draw the general current, follow
ing the direction of the nerves 3 you hold your
hands the ſame as if you were to hold a pen 5 you
ſeek for the cauſe of the pain, which may lie in dif
ferent parts-perhaps the patient will tell'you if
you cannot ﬁnd it out. If it isa bemicram'a, which
is owing to the foulneſs of the ﬅomach, you'ﬁxjyour
eyes upon your left hand, which you direct towards
the diaphragmor ﬅomach, with your right hand
you do the ſame as if you was to turn a pancake ;
this you repeat ſeveral times, by that mean you ﬅir
the atmoſphere and relax the ﬅomach, andeake
him vomit; you may give a little warm wpter to
promote your operation; you may alſo treatthe
head by drawing the ﬂuid downwards, or preſs Your
hands upon the head in oppoſition, if the pain has
been of long ﬅanding ; you may order a vomit, or
a gentle purge, and treat them every day, and after
order bitters to ﬅrengthen the ﬅomach. Thereare
diﬀerent head-achs, as the ctpbalalgia, when the
head is aﬀected ſlightly in one particular part. Ce
pbaZa-a is when the whole head is aﬀected, and one
ſide only is called bemicrania, and a ſmall ſpot af
fected is called cla'vi: lȝ.f/itrirtt:; Theſe various
head.
l411
\
head-achs ariſe from diﬀerent cauſes : if it proceeds
from obﬅructions, Crﬀer are very ſalutary, as they
put the whole body intomotion, and will remove
the cauſe. Treating the part which you think iS.
aﬀected is very neceſſary; you do the ſame with
one hand or both, by drawing your hands towards
you ſeveral times as before. To treat the head,
you may apply your hands upon the temples, and
put your thumb upon the frontal ſinur, which. will
often remove it 5 or draw the fluid towards you
with all your might. Electrify the head by connect
ing a director with a wooden point to the prime
conductor, throw a quantity of ﬂuid on the head.
DEAFNass.
If the want of hearing proceeds from a fault in
the ﬅructure of the ear, there is no cure. If it pro
ceeds from cold, fever, hard wax, or dryneſs, you .
may magnetiſe according to my principles: you
keep yourſelf within a yard or two, according as
you feel a re-action; you then ﬁx your leſt hand
towards the ear, and you move your right open, and
bring towards the left hand, and do the ſame as if
you were to clap your hands, by that mean you put
the air into vibration, and guided by your left hand
as a conductor, you apply the palm of the hand up
on the ears 5 you may put your thumb in the ear,
and with your other ﬁnger as you hold a pinch of
ſnuﬀ, preſs the thumb towards the ear-you acce
lerate the ﬂuid into it : impreſs your mind with the
cauſe of the diſeaſe, and theﬅructure ofthepart you
F are
-._--
.
>
__-_
----
---_-_-
-
[ 42 ]
are treating. You may make uſe of a conductor,
either glaſs or Artiﬁcial Magnet, and put it into
the ear, and 'rub the ſame with your ﬁngers from
the b'aﬁs towards the ear ; you may magnetiſe the
head by drawing the fluid towards-you : all theſe
means you are to make uſe of according to your
ſenſa'tions and judgment; ſometimes an injection
made of Caﬅile ſoap, warm brandy and water, or
tum, and a little ſweet oil, or eals-gall will aſſiﬅ
you in the operation. ' If you cannot ſucceed, elec
trify the ear'by introducing a bended glaſs tube,
with a Wire in it, into the ear; hold the tube with
one hand by the middle, 'bring a bit of wood near
the nob of the wire, and draw the ﬂuid from the
inſulated perſon, or throw the ﬂuid into the ear with
another tube, without inſulating.
Of the. TOOTH-ACH.
This violent, though not dangerous, diſeaſe pro
ceeds from rheumaty'mu obﬅructed prrſpiration, in
ﬂa'hmatian, &e. this being the caſe, you treat ac
cording to my rules : if there is inﬂammation, you
draw the ﬂuid from the head ; you touch the tem
ples, the frontalﬁmu, the top of the head, the arti
tulatz'an _af_ the jawr, and under the (bin ; you may
touch the tooth with your index and thumb; but
a ſure way is to get 'an Artiﬁcial Magnet, and as
your patient's face is towards the South, apply the
South pole. upon the tooth, and touch the next
teeth, and after draw the ﬂuid downWards, and you
will perform a cure; or apply two magnets upon
thetemples, the poles contrary.
DISEASES
[' 43 ]
_ [DISEASES of the EYI-zs.
There is norhing ſo diﬃcult to cure as thoſe diſ
eaſes, and none of our organs are more ſubject to
be aﬀected than the ſight, or from ſo many cauſes.
When they proceed from obﬅructions in the cuﬅo
mary evacuations, you muﬅ magnetiſe according to
my rules 5 you treat the cauſe, alſo the eyes, by ﬁx
ing your thumbs oppoſite ; you preſs with the in
dex the ﬂuid into the eyes ; you move your thumb
oppoſite you-and may rub the eyes gently ; you
drop magnetiſed water into them with a quill,
this you do three or four times a day, and you or
der a little lemonade or ſyrup to your patient. A
ſlight inﬁammation may be cured eaſily, by ﬁxing
your idea ; draw the ﬂuid towards you, unknown
to the perſon; I have done it often in a ﬅage-coach, '
and other places.
'
- The Gutta Serena, Opſit-balmia, Cataract, Speak;
an the Eyes, and Fzﬅula Larrymalis, are very diﬃ
cult, and almoﬅ incurable.--l ſhall explain the beﬅ
manner of treating :-.Y0u muﬅ ﬁrﬅ know the
cauſe, which you treat, after you apply your thumbs
gently on the eyes, yOu rub them often ; you ﬁx
your thumb with the next ﬁnger at a diﬅance from
the eye 5 make uſe of an Artiﬁcial Magnet, by ﬁx.
ing it at the diﬅance of half an inch from them 5
it has by that mean removed ſpots, and Gutta Sere
my, proceeding from the compreſiion of the nerves
by ſuperﬂuous humours; drop magnetrſed water,
F 2 _ three
ti_
an"
-
u-
un.
[44]
.--**I" _______._-__-__._r____.___ _ M a.- axe-" A.___ ______
three or four times a day, into the eyes : a proper
regimen is neceſſary, and ſome internal and exter
nal application.
Of the EPILEPSY and HYSTERIC AFFICTIONS.
, Thoſe diſeaſes are often diﬃcult to cure, with
many others, as they cannot be cured by internal
medicines, except when proceeding from obﬅruc
tions, worms, or aﬀection of the mind, &e. lf it
proceed from worms, give ſome Carolina, or black
Elebore, lndia Pink, mixed with jallap or rhubarb. .
In obﬅuctions, you treat according to the rules ;
' then you touch the head on the top z-apply your
thumb to the root of the noſe, you endeavour to
* diſſolve the obﬅructions which may be the cauſe z
apply your hand upon the diaphragm, and endeav
, our to put the nerves in motion ; you may treat at
a diﬅance alſo, but try to produce a Crz'ſis, which
is very eaſy, and the ſits will decreaſe every day.
Meﬃs. Andry and Touretf'phyſicians, at Paris,
..? * cured ſeveral Epileptirr, by applying Artiﬁcial Mag
' nets round the head, or like a horſe ſhoe, upon the
top of the head; when they are in a ſit, apply a
magnet in each hand, it will ſoon recover them; they
are very good in ſpaſms, "fainting, and cramp:
by applying the magnet under the foot, it ceaſes
inﬅantly,
Of
_* Vic'e their Repart to the qual Academy on Magnm.
W
Of the SCHROPHULA, called the Kmo's Eer.
This diſeaſe is a diſgrace to the ſcience ofphyſic;
phyſicians not having found a perfect mode of cure.
It is ſaid that ſome perſons have had the giſt of
curing by touching-I have ſeen in London, two
perſons who had been touched by a man after he
was hanged-they were relieved; but in this in
ﬅance, I really believe that fear operated ſo forcibly
on their imaginations, and cauſed ſuch a ſudden re
volution in the blood as removed the obﬅruction
of the glands. You may touch your patient in thoſe
parts, and draw the eﬃuvia in order to refolve the
glands: iſ there is an ulcer, order the perſon to
bathe the part in magnetiſed water, and keep a bit
of rag always upon the part.-Sea-bathing, decoc
tion of celery, bardane, nettles, and hcmlock juice
may' be tried, beſides treating.
N. B. This diſeaſe is very dangerous to treat,
as well as all cutaneous cruptions ; I would adviſe
to have nothing to do with it if' poﬃble.
Son: THROAT, or any inﬂammation in the head,
is to be treated by drawing the ﬂuid out oſthe part,
either by putting yourſelf in oppoſition, or by ﬅand
ing on one ſide, and putting one hand behind the
"neck, and the other before.
Of the PALSY.
The Palſy, when it happens to an old perſon, or
has been of long ﬅanding, is ſeldom cured 3 but if
it
K
t
-
*
W'
'ne-a"w_-
.
..._
l
0
ſ
----n--o-n-.
__
.
..__
_<_*..,_._-.. --ﬁ
u.
_.
r-1>-_'
--.----q--.
A_......-._.
0
.,.->
.
Q'W"
.*M';
'1.
"I"'
-'
'
,.
-V-=.n
l
If
_____,__-_.,.__ f__ ,,c___ ___'D* _*_;r_g_- w
[46]
it happens to one ofa middle age, and one ſide onlyxis
ﬅruck, called an hemiphlegia, a cure will be eﬀect
ed by being treated ſoon after. You may magne
tiſe your patient oppoſite as uſual : after you turn
the ſide aﬀected towards the North, you treat the
oppoſite ſide, which is ſuppoſed to be where the
cauſe lies ; you may touch with one hand along the
back-bone, or within an inch from it, along-the great
intereoﬅal, by applying your right hand upon the
ﬅomach; you treat him about two hours 5, if you
can put him into a Criſir, which is eaſily done, you
may expect to cure him. You make him lift up his '
bad arm, or have ſomebody to, ſupport it ; you put
a conductor in his hand, to attract the univerſal
ﬂuid ; you may inſulate him, and turn the part af'
fected towards the North-tie a ſilk ﬅring to the
ceiling, at the end of it have a ﬅrong compounded
magnet-the North pole parallel to the hand--to
the other hand tie likewiſe another ﬅring, at the
end of which there is a large piece of iron, whoſo
ſurface is larger than the magnet; have an electric
machine, and connect the chain tothe patient, then
make him ﬅretch his arms-then touch the magnct
'and the piece of iron together, or one after another,
to the extremities of the hands, it will cure him ;
I cured the porter of the Royal Bank, in Dnh/z'n,
who is above 60 years old. A general vomit orpurge
is often neceſſary; the diet muﬅ be good; if the
tongue is aﬀected, put a conductor upon it, or an
Artiﬁcial Magnet, ſuch as you make uſe of for the
teeth, by preſſing the ﬂuid from the baſis towards '
the
[47']
the point on the tongue : ſometimes' a little gargle
is uſeful. Electricity and the cold bath are very
good; '
ST. VXTus's DANCE, .,
This'ﬅran'ge diſorder may be' cured by a long
treatment z you may magnetiſe a harpſichord, and
make the patient dance till he drops down, and
treat him after. I have ſeen a girl cured that way,"
by a private gentleman at Parir. * _\
RHEUMATISM. '
v Nothing is more common in this country than
this diſeaſe, on account oſ the dampneſs and change
of the weather, which will abſorb the electric and
or magnetic ﬂuid from ﬂying oﬀ diﬀerent parts,
particularly from the ſect, from whence there ﬂies
out a greater abundance of ﬂuid, than from any
other part of the body. It is for that reaſon dogs
will follow our tracks. There are very obﬅinate
Rheumatiſms, which proceed from diﬀerent cauſes,
ſuch as heat or cold, which produce inflammation
between the joints, and are diﬃcult to cure. The
method of curing this diſeaſe, is to magnetiſe the
patient in oppoſition z try to promote perſpiration,
by putting him into a Criſis. If the R/aeumaty'm (is
in aſſparticular part of the body, you muﬅ treat the
part aﬀected, either by touching or rubbing, which
is the beﬅ. You may make uſe oſ an Artiﬁcial
Magnet in the form of a horſe ſhoe. If the Rheu
matym
44
'
4_#L_I_
'l
[43]
'nati/m is in the head, you apply it upon the top of
it ; if it is in the fare and teeth, apply it on the tem
pin; if it is in the bip, you apply it above the but,
with the poles up; if in the knees, apply it on the
tarſur, with the poles up z if it is on the ſhoulders,
you place it on the bumaru: or arm-bone, &e.
Electricity, hot and cold bath, earth-bathing, ac
cording to Dr. GaAHAM's principles, have been of
ſervice. Some internal and external application:
will aſﬁﬅ the operation.-I knew a baker who was
ſo bad that Electricity had no eﬀect ; he was adviſ
ed by a Somnambulc to get into his own oven, hav
ing ſuch a degree of heat, from thence he was car
ried between two blankets into bed, and by proper
ﬁimulus became perfectly well after four trials.
DROPSY.
There are diﬀerent ſorts of this diſeaſe, according
to the parts which are aﬀected. I ſhall treat of the
manner of curing the aſcite, which is, when there is
a collection of watery ﬂuid in the abdame'z or belly,
proceeding from obﬅructions, living too low, and
ſometimes from drinking ſpirits or cold water, when
the body is hot. You treat the patient in oppoſi
tion z you ﬁx your hands upon the part, either at a
diﬅance, or by applying the hands on the belly 5
you try to produce a Cri/is, which is the quickeﬅ
way. You may apply a magnetiſed bell-glaſs on
the belly, when the patient is in bed, the ſame on
the legs, if they are ſwelled, and various ac'ceſſaries,
accord
[49]
rW_di_.- , . w "
according to the operator'sfancy. Dropſies of the
brain, of the breaﬅ, and of the legs, are treated by
extracting the ﬂuid, and promoting circulation and
perſpirationt ' ' 'A poor woman, having occaſion
to go down into the kitChen, ſaw my black- ſervant
ﬅark naked, -_in at large tub Of water 5 - ſhe *was ſo
frightened'that ſhe fell-on: the ﬅairs in an hyﬅerick,
was heard, vand 'brought to; the Black-"had hid
himſelf in the'coal-hble, and thought the woman
was dead 3 on the contrary,: next day.v ſhe meaſured
a quarter of a Yard leſs round the waiﬅ, as ſhe had
been meaſured before, and became Well after. j . '
i Of tloe As'rHMA.
This diſeaſe of the lungs is very ſeldom cured
when it proceeds from a bad formation of the breaﬅ,
or is hereditary. If it comes from obﬅructions,
treat the lungs, and put the patient 'into Criſer to
promote circulation: but 'if the aﬅhma proceeds
from another cauſe, as violent p'aﬃons of mind,
humoral or nervous, and the patient ſpits a "great
deal, treat the ﬅOmach upwards, to Promote expcc
tOration. If the patient cough much at night, give
him a glaſs of magnetiſed water on goin'ctgſito bed,
and another in themorning. Moderate exerciſe in
a gentle air'is'very uſeful. - ' *
_ APOPLEXY.
- : - . _ . . -1-r t t'
This ſudden loſs of the ſenſes may be cured by
applying immediately, and with proper care. The
_ G cauſe
I
_-4_L
:._'_'_._:
MÞWWLL__
[[so]
cauſe is an eﬀuſion of blood, or a collection of wa
tery humours. There are two ſorts, aſanguine and
ſtraw Apoplexy z it is generally towards the brain,
that the cauſe lies, becauſe the blood does not re
turn from the head. That being the caſe, you mag
netiſe the patient either in bed or up: if he is in
bed, you ﬅay at his feet; you magnetiſe the head
downward ; you may get at his right ſide, and mag
netiſe as before; you touch his head, one hand be
hind, the other before, and bring your hands down
wards-you muﬅ raiſe the head of the patient high.
If it is aſanguinA/Ipoplezy, and you ſee there is no
change, you may order a bleeding, or put the feet
in warm ﬁannel. Let the patient have free air.
You muﬅ treat him four hours a day.
NIGHT MARE.
This diſagreeable diſeaſe puts the patient into'
the greateﬅ torturc during his ſleep z he feels often
a weight upon his ﬅomach, like a man, cats, or
dogs. He endeavours to cry aloud, and fan
cies himſelf going to be drowned, or to be killed.
It proceeds from a weak ﬅomach,. nervous aﬀec
tions I have attended a patient, who uſed to
be blooded every year in May : during March and
April, he was alwaysſo; but as ſoon as he was bled,
the eﬀect ceaſed. They are a kind of Sommzmbuler:
You may treat the ﬅomach, by throwing a quantity
of ﬂuid, in order to ﬅrengthen it; alſo treat the
head downwards. A glaſs of magnetiſed water
going to bed, is very good. v
CONSUMP
L 51 1 ,
CONSUMPTION, chmr, or PHTHISlS
PULMONALIS.
A _This diſeaſe, ſo common in England, is diﬃcult
to cure ; iſ it proceeds from want of the animal ﬂuid
- in the body, which waﬅes it to nothing, it is neceſ
ſary that the perſon who treats be very ﬅrong and
healthy. His patient is like a child at the breaﬅ,
pumping his animal juicc, and he may be much
hurt by it, like a child who ſleeps with an old and
unhealthy perſon; therefore would adviſe to treat
as few as poﬃble. Riding a young horſe without
a ſaddle, a cow, or a bullock, Or- to be among cat
tle, is very good-et'o ſleep in a ﬅable, by commu
nicating a rope from the bed to the cattle, which
ſerves as a conductor to the animal ﬂuid; or to
follow a plough in a dry day, or to handle ſome
vegetablects and freſh meat. Live on animal food,
and rich wine.
Diſeaſes in the ﬅomach, ſo common in this coun
try among women, owing to that pernicious cuſtom
of wearing ﬅays ; not only that, but they muﬅ alſo
have a piece of wood, two or three inches broad,
and proportionably thick, called a buſk, which oc
caſions ſo many diſeaſes, They ſhould be looſe
round the body.-Y0u treat the ﬅomach, by throw
ing a quantity of ﬂuid into it.-Crz'ſe.r are not good
for it.
FLATULENCY, or wind in the ﬅomach and þow
els, ariſes from want of tone in thoſe parts.-It is
G 2 * to
\
b
'ſiﬁjſ
T'WI'
V
I.
to be treated upwards, which will make the patient
break wind, and produce a C'iſir, which is the beﬅ.
Aſter the Crz'ſis, you muﬅ treat the ﬅomach down
wards,'in order to ſettle it-you may order carmi
nati-ver, and exerciſe in pure air.
BILB on theﬅomacb is treated upwards 5 alſo to
make the patient vomit; and Crz'ſes are good for it
-a glaſs of magnetiſed water after will ſettle the
ﬅoma_ch._ In all ſorts ofinﬂ'ammations oſ the lungs.
liver, &e. you treat towards you, and avoid the
Cryer, as well as when thoſe parts are Ulcerated. In
the Stone and Gravel you treat; throw a quantity
oſ ﬂuid and produce Cri/is, it will promote evacu
ation, which may do ſervice to the patient. I knew
a gentleman who had juﬅ learned, who told me he
had diſſolved, in a little time, a ﬅone in the bladder,
about ſour ounces, by magnetiſing only. I adviſed
him to treat the London Manument, and carry it into
St. George's-Fields; he would have ﬁve hundred
pounds reward.
ln external Swellings, Strains, or Ulcers, draw
towards you, or apply your hands in oppoſition on
the part, a long time, and bathe with magnetiſed
water.
Pregnant women, and in labour, may be treated
without a Crz'ſis.
The CHLOROSlS, or obﬅruction in the ſair ſex,
which is owing to debility or laxity of habit-In
plethoric
[531'
plethoric habits, treat in oppoſition, and endeavour
to produce a Criſir. ' I'knew a lady, who told me
ſhe had'c'ured ſeveral, by the application oſthe hand.
Of Nakvctous DlSEASES.
It is in thoſe diſeaſes that magnetiſm acts more
ſorcibly,by putting the whole nervous ſyﬅem in mo
tion; it operates Criſes, as well as Sonmambuli/m,
and oﬀers to the attentive eye a vaﬅ ﬁeldpſobſer
vation. ' - '
There is as great a variety in thoſe diſeaſes, as
there are combinations between all poſſible num
bers. Diﬀerent organs may be aﬀected, and diſ
tinctly from others, ſuch as ſight, hearing, feeling,
taﬅing, and ſmelling. In ſome perſons the exten
ſion oſ ſight is ſo great, that it ſeems as if they made
uſe of a microſcope : ſome of them can ſee in the
dark, the animal ﬂuid ﬂying in all directions, and
appears luminous,-l knew a lady's maid, every
time ſhe pulled oﬀ her miﬅreſs's ſilk ﬅockings,
could ſee ſparkles of ﬁre, and the legs appeared lu
minous. One day the experiment was made in'a
dark room, out oſ eight perſons preſent, two could
not ſee any thing, and the reﬅ could perceive
plainly.-Mr. Boyle mentionsv a perſon, who, after
getting half fuddled with Claret (which was ſup
poſed relaxed the ﬅomach and his nervous ſyﬅem)
when he walked in the night, could ſee to read mo
derate print.-VVe have ſeen lately in all the newſ
papers,
-
'
-._"--.
In"
[54]
papers, an account of a man 'who could diﬅinguiſh
colours in the dark.-GnrMALDI tells us, ** that
ſome women can, by their eyes alone, diﬅinguiſh
between eggs laid by black hens, and thoſe by white
ones." Theſe facts will lead to many things which
I ſhall relate about Somnambules We muﬅ not at
tribute to 'whim all the ſingularities, which we ob
ſerve among people aﬀected in the nerves 3 it is
a real cauſe, as 'that which determines the moﬅ rea
ſonable man. l knew a gentleman in London, who
ſhook his head and arm every inﬅant, like aperpc
tual motion ; A lady I treated, when in his compa
ny had the ſame 'involuntary aﬀection. There are
diﬀerent methods oſ treating thoſe diſeaſes, either
by treating withour C'z'ſir, or with it; ſuch people
are the beﬅ Somnanzbuch Iſ a perſon is irritablc,
you treat gently, in oppoſition, by drawing a cer
tain quantity of ﬂuid from him 5 if, on the contra
ry, y0u throw the ﬂuid towards him, you may put
him into a gentle Criﬁ: ; iſ the patient has a tremb
ling of the limbs, or the head, you treat thoſe parts z
if you cannot ſucceed by treating, apply a magnetic
&andeau round the head, it will ﬅop it inﬅantly.
For trembling of the hands, you apply magnetic
&race/m; ſuch as I have made,
To ﬅop the blood from a cut, ﬁk your idea
upon the part, and hold your finger as iſ you had a
pinch of ſnuﬀ, preſs with your index and your
thumb upon the cut, it 'will ﬅop it inﬅantly.
anu.
[55] '
anzn.
Fevers of every kind may be cured by Crz'ſes ; it
is during that time that nature endeavours to get
rid of what diﬅurbs her, either by perſpiration, vo
miting, and evacuation. Thoſe people are the beﬅ
Somnambnliﬅr, as l ſhall explain hereafter. It is very
eaſily underﬅood, by the method I havetaken to ex
plain the treating of the foregoing diſorders, that
an ingenious magnetiſer may treat all others, as it
would require a whole volume to explain them.
To treat one's ſelf is as eaſy as to make our arms;
feet, and other parts of the body, move in any di
rection we pleaſe. You make yourſelf ſick in your
ﬅomach by your ahſolute will : I have done it often,
before ſeveral gentlemen, by ﬅirring the atmoſphere'
in my ﬅomach. .
* Animals of all kinds may be treated in diﬀerent
ways. I have ſeen, at the Veterinary School, in Pa
rir, ſeveral horſes and cows feel the eﬀects ſenſibly,
There was a reſervoir, ſimilar to that which I de
ſcribe, but no electric machine. I have ſeen dogs
and cats put to ſleep ſeveral times; therefore it
cannot be from imagination ; I would adviſe to try
that, to ſee the reality. I know a gentleman at
Briﬅol, who has done it often.
I ſhall not mention here the cures I have made,
as well as my Pupils; I ſhall refer to the works of
Marquis de Pniﬂgur, Tardy de Montrcwil, and 20
volumes' more.
Of -
John-
LM-
w
LL
.
[ 56 ]
_'r-r-ſ
-_----<-<
I.
Oftbe Cnrsrs, or PAROXYSM.
The Criſe: are an eﬀort of nature againﬅ the diſ
order, endeavouring to diſſipate the obﬅacles that
are in the circulation, and to reﬅore harmony or e
quilibrium in all the parts of the body, Few diſ
caſes can be cured with0ut_'a**Crﬄnvparticularly
when it proceeds from obﬅructionse 'I muﬅ- ob
ſerve, that in many caſes, when diſorders are at'a
natural Criſir, the application of phyſic is deemed
to Produce an eﬀect; when, in reality, it is 'merely
the force of nature reﬅoring the equilibrium. 3
There are two ſorts of (riſen-The natural one,
which is attributed to nature alone, gets rid oſſf what
oﬀends her by an increaſe of movement, producing
vomiting, motion, perſpiration, &c. Theſe are theſi
moﬅ ſalutary ; as nature acts ſilently, without vio
lence, and exPels the obﬅaclcs that impede circula
tion, by moving gently the molecules which form
thoſe impediments, and go oﬀ by perſpiration,
The forced one is ſometimes ſalurary in olZ/Iruc
tions, windy and liliou: eoznplaintr. Theſe are. pro
duced when nature is inſuﬃcient to expel what of
ſends her. The. uſe oſ Animal Electricjty and
Magnetiſm, puts in action the whole body, and in
conjunction with her, acts eﬃcaciouſly on the pa
tient, and he diſcovers bencſitsand eaſe, particularly
if it has produced evacuations, &e. There are va
rious means of producing them, (acc0rdingſi to the
ſubject,
_______,_*t___ _ _.-.__
"[ 57 ,]
ſubject, and the cauſe of his diſeaſe. Some ſay there
are ſix degrees oſ Criſhs 3 in my opinion, there are
as many, as diﬀerent conﬅitutions to treat; ſome
will alſo ſay there is a luminous Crz'ﬂs, from that
ſect called Illuminer; they were called, ten years
ago, in France and German), Clair-ooyans, . '
Suppoſe you have a proper perſon, and wiſh to
'put him into a Criſis, (be very cautious, as it may
laﬅ many hours, according to the couﬅitution' and
diſeaſe), put yomſelf in aﬃnitijith him, by hold
' ing his thumbs or his hands, during a few ſecond;
Diveﬅ yourſelf from any. prejudice, and think of
nOthing elſe but of producing the eﬀects. The
Perſon muﬅ be willing for the ﬁrﬅ time, and your
mind muſt be- ahſoluteﬁ and of among-crowni
tution than the perſon you operate upon ; if the
perſon is afraid, you will produce a ﬅrong Criſis.
You muﬅ be alone in a room to avoid any noiſe,
or any thing to diﬅurb. you' miſindvs-I have often
failed in a largecompany, being diﬅurbed: by noiſe,
. Ynd my fear of notſſſucceedjng, together with the
diﬀerent atmoſpheres, and Other accidental-cauſes,
If it ſo happens that you do not ſucceed that time,
ſuſpend your judgment, try again another time, ﬁr
. ' ma Q
' Croire is' wit/air, according to the Marquis dc- Pnyﬂgur,
is ſuﬃcient ; but ſome modern profeſſors have made it, 'vali
n'an, belief, abﬅractian, intention," quctim, conﬁdence,ﬁvpalbj.
is'c. all theſe are imaginary; the whole contents depend in
the aﬁſalute will of the operator,
H
-.7_*\-
-
war-2.
Wit
'li'
ill
.-F
it
I?
1 I
2
i
, i
r,
* i
I;
'2
i
4
.
quvﬂ'
w
[58]
'make'choice oſ another ſubject ; it may be (ming
to your habit of body, the weather being too hot,
or too cold, or other cauſes. It is a miﬅaken no
tion to ſuppoſe that every body can be put to ſleep;
perhaps'Providence has not ordained it ſhould be '
ſo, for the good of ſociety. While you hold the
hands, ﬁx your idea and eyes upon the heart, ﬅo
mach, and frontalſim/s above the noſe, then bring
your hands down to the feet, and raiſe them up to
wards the head again ; repeat the operation ſeveral
times, and charge 'the head in diﬀerent directions,
by ſhutting your hands and opening them quickly, r
by that mean you throw a quantity of animal ﬂuid
on the patient, which Will cauſe a vibration oſ the
ctnerves, and put him in a convulſion. If the perſon
is too much agitated, which is oſten the caſe, try to
calm him, by drawing the ﬂuid downwards from head
to foot; do the ſame as if the perſon was too hot 5 put
the air in motion' with your hands, drawing back, and
giving-him air; or take his hands and apply them
to your ſide, then blow in his face, that may eaſe
him; There are ſome people more ſuſceptible of'
Crſſes than others; it depends upon the ﬅrength
of their conﬅitutions, and the nature of their'di'ſ
caſes 5 but when you have once or twice put a per
ſon into that ﬅate, he is then under your inﬂuence,
you may at any time, place, or hour produce the
ſame eﬀects without motions, as when you treat at.
a diﬅance ; the more you treat the ﬅronger you be- ſſ
come, like an armed load-ﬅone, by adding weight
to it every day. Some become inſenſible' to it when
the;r
[59]
they draw near their recovery. It is often more
eaſy to put a perſon into a Criſir"k than to take him
out of it. The beﬅ method is to let the perſon
compoſe himſelf; if he has been much agitated,
(like a perſon in an epileptic ﬁt) it is a long time
before nature can recover : do not ſpeak to him till
you ſee him compoſed and eaſy. Aſk him how he
does i if he does not anſwer your queﬅions, let him
be quiet longer ; if you were to take him out too
ſoon, he would be apt to fall aſleep again, as I have
ſeen many, or perhaps have a head-ach after. If
he ſays, in a quarter ofan hour, be careful to awake
him at that time ; ſome will tell to a ſecond when
it is near the time they have fiXCd to be awaked.
When the time is arrived, fan him from head to
feet; apply your ﬁngers upon his temples, then rub
his eyes with your thumbs ſeveral times, and he
will open them in a ſurpriſe; if he complains ofa
head-ach, put the air in motion, and let nobody
come near him for a few minutes ; a glaſs of wine,
rum or bran'dy and water may be given, and let him
not go out immediately. Many profeſſors make '
uſe ofdiﬀerent means 3 in my humble opinion, this
l have found by experience to be the beﬅ, as 'I have
fre
* It has been aſl'e'rtcd by ſome proſeſſors of late, that a per
ſon ofa bad moral character cannot be put into a Crzſir, or
operate upon others. But daily experience has convinced me
that morality has nothing to do with theſe phyſical eﬀects,
being produced in bad characters themſelves, or they pro
ducing them in others.
H2
__-
'
ce!
t" 60 1
Frequently ſeen others ſail. When the patient is re
covered, by making the room dark, and rubbing
' yourhands, 'he will ſee ſparks oſ ﬁre iſſuing out
oſ the ﬁngers, he will alſo perceive a luminous va
pour ﬁying all round your body, like phoſphorus,
and your eyes emitting great rays oſ light, the
breath having the appearance oſ a light ſmoke;
and many other phcnomena, which you may try as
v'you will read in the experiments. Some people
have not that irritability on the optic nerve the ﬁrﬅ
time, but the ſecond or third ſeldom fails.
Facts areﬅubbom Things when after: repeated.
I muﬅ be permitted to relate many examples
that will appear incredible to ſome perſons,--yet I
can produce a thouſand witneſſes. Let any ſober
enquirer after truth, ſit down, reflect, and try,-he
is ſure to ſucceed, let the cauſe be what it will, the
eﬀects will ſatisſy him,-as many hundrſieds in this
kingdom can produce them.
There are many people who will remain ſe
veral hours in theſe CrLſes, others will catch
it through ſympathy, I have ſeen at Dr. Meſ
mer's Chambre der Cri/e:, about thirty perſons
at a time in that ſituation, and a great many
at the treatment oſ the Marquis de Puyſsgzzr, Dr.
De la Mette, Dr. Vernier, Father Her-vier, and
hundreds more, in the year 1784. The ſame year
a gentleman begged 1 would go with him to ſee
his
[61]
Ft -,.-...._.... _... _ ** -
his niece, who was a novice in a convent, near Pa
ris, ſhe was conﬁned in that unnatural priſon,
againﬅ her OWn will and inclination i ſince the Re
volutiou ſhe has been happily married :-at the
time I ſaw her ſhe looked pale and dcbilitated 5 I
told her I would magnetiſe her; an old nun ran
up immediately, and the Abbeſs with ſix or eight
nuns along with her z-I held by the hands thro'
the grate, ﬁxing my eyes on her heart, in one mi
nute ſhe went into a Criſis; ﬁve more nuns went
into hyﬅerick ſits, the others ran away; their ſcreams
alarmed ſo much my patient, that ſhe remained in
that ﬅate ſour hours; I could not aﬃﬅ her, nor
would the Abbeſs pemiit me to go in.-This phe
nomenon is oſten ſeen in manuſactories, ſchools, and
other public places; one perſon will often cauſe
many to go into hyﬅericks, like the Trembleurs,
in America.
In Dublin, being in a large company at a noble
man's houſe, I puta lady oſ quality and a gentleman
into a Crz'ſir, and two or three ſervants ; there came
in a certain great lady, ſeveral ladies ran up to her,
and told her what they had witneſſed ; I turned
round, and waved a glaſs conductor towards her, the
ſhining oſ the glaſs made her believe ſhe was mag-*
netiſed; ſhe went into a gentle Criſis,_-all the com
pany were alarmed ; I then put an Artiﬁcial Mag
net into her hand, gave her air, and ſhe recovered
ſoon 3 all the ladies were curious to view the mag
net, as poſſeſſing ſuch a power.
In
_N____
_.
\
Kl.'Mu-
'Pt-=*"*"*'
[62]
In London, in the year 1785, ſeveral French not
blemen, Members oſ the Harmonic Society, did
me the honour oſcalling at my lodgings ;-the Duke
de --- put a perſon into a Criſir, uſing his cane
only as a conductor; ſeveral ladies were carried in
to an0ther room, who were aﬀected,
In Dublin, I called at a * houſe to treat 'a
lady ſor the ſecond time, ſhe was no ſooner in a
Criſir, than three ladies, ſeated on a ſopha, went
into hyﬅerick ﬁts 5 their ſcreams alarmed my patient
ſo much, that ſhe remained in that ﬅate' near three
hours. ' -
In H'oleerbamþtanﬁ ſeveral ladies and two gens
tlemen did me the honour oſ calling at my lodg!
ing ; after I had entertained them with electric and
magnetic recreations, I deſired a very amiable lady
to ſit down, whilﬅ I took oﬀ the magnetic eﬄuvia,
by a ſmall motion oſ my hand, and my aþſolztte
will,
-r--"'._--r
->
was
'* It is a very populous collegiate town, in Staﬃrdſhire, '3
miles from Birmingljavr; very remarkable for the coal-pits,
and wild-ﬁres, the antiquity ofrhe Church, the environs ofthe
town being ſo well cultivated, on account oſ the number of
noblemen's feats, which form many beautiful and groteſque
pictures ; alſo the manufactories, particularly japaning, and
other ingeniOus works of Meſſrs. Tqylor, Yarm, and Baa'ger z
the ſteel works, and the porter brewery; together with the
pence and harmony in which the inhabitants live together,
the cheapneſs ofproviſions, the hoſpitality ſhewn to ﬅrangers,
but above all the beauty oſ the ladies, juﬅly entitle it to the
mame of the terreﬅrial paradiſe of Grmt Britax'n.
[63]
will, ſhe went into a gentle Criſir; two other ladies
went into hyﬅericks; through ſympathy. Several
gentlemen oſ the ſame place, who had done me the
honour to ſubſcribe to my lectures, having ſeen ſe
veral experiments, were deſirous to ſee a ﬅrong
Crzſisr-I deſired a gentleman to try the experiment
on a perſon who had been treated by him ſeveral
times, as the perſon knew the gentleman, ſhe was not
aſraid ; and was in one minute put into ſuch a con
vulſion, that two gentlemen could hardly hold her,
ſhe cried much; what was ſurpriſing, ſhe could
hear a'drum beating; it was ſix minutes beſore any
gentleman preſent could hear it; ſhe Was near ſour
hours in that ﬅate. Aſter taking her out of theCriſir,
ſhe ſell aſleep again, which happens frequently ;
the company left the room, and would have given
much money not to have ſeen ſuch a high Crzſir,
In Wane/In', I made the obſervation, that one
patient amongtwenty wouldſometimes remain aſleep
3 hours, arid fall into an hyﬅerick ﬁtzoſ laughing
for ten minutes; ſome would ſall into ſo vſound a
ſleep, that any operation might be performed with
out their knowledge.
In Bri/iol, at a gentleman's houſe, I put the maid
ﬁerVant aſleep for-halfan hour : A gentleman, who
had learned beſore, put her aſleepa ſecond time,
without the precaution oſ being in aﬃnity 5' ſhe re
mained near three hours in a violent hyﬅerick, that
two gentlemen could hardly hold her ; ſhe drank
ſour
axl *K l
\
*'-_..
...e
_.
-
_
_
___...-.
.-_.--.
v,
'rA
b....__u-
-_._._
KL'K
Nun
'O'
-.-"*-*
-
-_-_.-.-._-..*.__
Iii
i.
'A
'I
ſits-r]
four or ﬁve pints of warm beer, which ſhe never
uſed to drink.
NearGlouccﬅer, at a gentleman's houſe, the maid
was put aſleep for three hours; nobody could a
wake her; the ladies took oﬀ her garters, in the
abſence of the gentlemen, which cauſed an old
maid of ſourſcore to ſay, ſhe would never go into
company with gentlemen who had learned that are,
as ſhe could not think herſelf ſafe among them.
In Dublin, Glouceﬅer, and other places, I have
given ſeveral perſons in Criſes electric ſhocks, who
did not recollect the ſame when awake-many gen.
tlemen of the faculty have been eye-witneſſes.
In Glouceﬅer, a young man, apprentice to a gen
tleman of the faculty (eminent in his profeſſion)
went home, deſired the ſervant to ſit down, he then
'went through the ſame proceſs he had ſeen his ma
ﬅer perform before 5 to his great ſurpriſe he could
not awake her 5 his maﬅer came home, and wa' a
ﬅoniſhed to ﬁnd his ſervant aſleep-he took her
out of the Criſis. , ' ,
"In Paris, I put a man aﬂeep a ſurgeon of the
invalids, who thought that a little bleeding would
do him good, he was bled; the man would not
believe he had been bled after he was recovered.
There are in Paris, and the provinces, many
Acoucheurs who put their patients aſleep in ſome
caſes. Of
[ 65 ]
Oſ SENSATIONB, looked upon a: a Sixth Says.
There are as many ſenſutions, as there are poſſi
ble diﬀerenccs between proportions.
In all ſenſations, we muﬅ conſider three things
-the cauſe producing the impreſſion, the nature
and diſpoſition oſ the organs receiving it, and the
ſenſations which have preceded it. It is by the
combination of thoſe aﬃnities, that the organs of
our ſenſes may be magnified or increaſed to ſuch a
degree, as to become, for every object which they
preſent to us, what teleſcopes and microſcopes are
to the ſight; conſequently our ſenſations are the
reſult oſ all the eﬀects which objects make on our
organs.
Our ſenſes can only draw us, more or leſs, near
to the knowledge of objects and their nature, by a
conﬅant uſe and ſerious application, in order to at
tain to their reality.
We have a great number of ſmall organs proper
to receive ſenſations; but the habit we are in of
making uſe oſ ſome particular organs only, abſorbs
the reﬅ. Blind people have diﬀerent ſenſations
from us ; they will perceive a wall, or other body,
before they touch it ; and tell the ſize oſ a perſon,
and many other ſurpriﬁng things. There is no
doubt but we are endowed with an internal ſenſe,
which is in aﬃnity with the univerſe, and is conﬁ
I dered
(
[66]
'Tin-'T'W
__. __-_-_- ﬂi M__.*immnu
dered as an extenſion of ﬁght; it is by thoſe means,
one may comprehend the poſſibility of ﬁnding the
diſeaſe of another,-of foreſigbtr, predictiom, and
thc phenomenon of Somnamþu/es, Syþils, &c.
Iſit is poſſible to be aﬀected in ſuch a manner, as
to have the idea oſ a body at an immenſe diﬅance,'*
in the ſame manner as We ſee the ﬅars, the impreſ
ſion of whiCh is tranſmitted to us in a right line,
the ſucceſſion and continuity oſ a co-exiﬅing mat
ter between them and our organs, bounded by the
nature of their form, why ſhould it not be POﬃblC,
by the means oſ an inward organ, by which we are
in conract with the whole univerſe, for us to be aſ
ſectedby beings, the ſucceſſive motion of which is
propagated to us in curve or oblique lines, in any
direction ? and why ſhould we not be aﬀected by
the connection ofbeings which ſucceedone another?
I was acquainted with Monſieur de Botinau, who
had a place under Government in the iſland of
A Bourbon. During twenty years he made a particu
lar ﬅudy ofa ſenſe unknown to us: he could perceive
a ﬂeet or a ſingle ſhip one or two hundred miles oﬀ;
laﬅ war he deſcribed Mr. De Suﬃcin's ﬂeet, the
number of ſhips, and thoſe which had paſſed by and
did not ﬅop at the iſland-He could do more :-g
At ſea, he could tell the diﬅance he was oﬀ land,
and
* The Eagle and other Animals have more ſubtle ſenſes
than ourſelves.
[67]
and perceive rocks in the water; which has been
proved by repeated experiments in the Channel.
I cannot ſay this for certain, but I have ſeen the
Certz'ﬁram granted him from the Governor and *
principal people of the iſland, and the Petition and
Recommendation to the French Miniﬅer, who
granted him r 800 livres per annum.
The famous BLETON, called the Sourcier, or
Spring-ﬁnden whenever he walked upon a ground
where there was a vein of water, he felt within him
ſelf a certain ſenſation which gave him notice there
was water. Another cbuntryman, who ſhook where
ever there was water, owing to the elementary, e;
' lectric, or magnetic ﬁre, ariſing from the water, and
paſſing through the pores of the earth, gave him
that ſenſation.
-__---
Oſ SOMNAMBULISM, or SanP-WALkrNG.
l. SOMNAMBULISM is aﬅate between ſleeping and
walking, partaking of both, The patient is a
Somnambule or Clair-voyanr, when he can do the
ſame as when he was awake; thoſe natural Somn;
ambuler who get up in the night, and do many ſur
priſing things, 'are well demonﬅrated they are diſ:
eaſedperſons, and may be cured by treating. The
magnetic Sanznambulgr are thoſe whom art has
found out a means of abſorbing, and ſuſpending
' ſi ' 12 1 ctſi ſome
[68]
ſome oſ their exIernal ſenſes ſor awhile; the patients >
eat and drink, go up and down, play on any kind of
inﬅrument they are uſed to, and do many ſurpriſing _
things as you pleaſe to deſire them, either by words
or by thought, provided they are willing.
The ﬁrﬅ I ſaw was at the Marquis do sz'egur's,
in the year 1784 ; and ſoon after there was a hun
dred to be ſeen among the diﬀerent Practtioners in
Paris, whenever a perſon has a real Somnamlzzrle,
he has a, treaſure, they are called MolodeJ-Mede
rim, or Sick-phyſicians. I knew a very extraor
dinary one, who ſaved the learned Monſ. du Coidir's
life, after a wound he had received i-theſe beings
appear to ſee in the dark, and go through an exter
nal atmoſphere ; they have beſides an inward ſenſe,
which they make uſe of to perceive objects preſent,
viſible, or inviſible: No phyſicians can tell the
cauſe and diſeaſe ofa perſon, ſo well as a Somnamozzle,
which they feel through ſympathy, and other means
almoﬅ incredible, and hardly known: It ſeems,
that being deprived of their external ſenſes, their
intellects become ﬅronger. l ſhall not relate all
the queﬅions and anſwers, their diſeaſes, and thoſe
of Others; as it would require ſeveral volumes.-
l ſhall content myſelf with relating facts, which I
have produced before many reputable witneſſes.
SOMNAMBULES can walk, ſee, eat, drink, work,
and do many other things, which they cannot re
collect after.--ln the year 1784, I put a gentleman
in
[69']
in SomnambuIFſ/n ; in that ﬅate he was brought in
a coach to the ſide of' a river, along with ſome friends
who came to ſee him ; when his foot touched the
water he drew back, ſaying, he did not like to wet
himſelſzſi he was aſked iſ he could ſwim, he ſaid,
No, but would ſollow any body into the river,
he undreſſed himſelf', and followed a gentleman that
came with him; when he was as deep as his ſi
ſhoulders, he tried to ſwim towards the ſhore; and
did it pretty well: I took him out oſ his ſleep, he
was ſo ſurpriſed to ſee himſelf wet, that he ſell
back; he was deſired after to ſwim, he ſaid he was
afraid, nor would he believe he had been ſo doing..
There ai-e many inﬅances oſ natural Somnambuch ;
ſome have been drowned by being awaked ſudden
ly. In Briﬅol, a perſon being in that ﬅate, ſome
gentlemen told her ſomething diſagreeable; ſhe
took her bonnet and cloak, walked home, we ſol
lowed her, it was alſo dark, and ſhe did not miſs
the door. At Worccﬅer,'another lady in that ﬅate
took it into her head to walk home to dinner, ſay
ing, ſhe ſaw her father and ſiﬅers going to dinner;
ſhe went down ﬅairs, aſked a lady in the parlour
how ſhe was ; we had much ado to bring her up 3
ſhe took a baſon of broth, and did -not recollect ſhe
had been either walking or drinkincr excePt ſome
a;
taﬅe ſhe had,
At Glocqﬂer, beſore many ladies and gentlemen
of that city, I made ſome walkround a garden.
I gave ſome electric ſhocks, &c. in order to con
* vmcc
vince the ſaculty oſ that place, who do 'nox now
doubt oſ the eﬀects. i -*
_ In Duþlz'n, a lady in that ﬅate, got up on a ſud-l
denwent up ſtairs, three ﬅories high, in the dark,
entered into a room, where a lady was ſick in bed 3
ſhe told her ſhe had better open her Windows, ſor
there was an atmoſphere ſuﬃcient to kill a_horſe,_'
and many other particulars concerning her diſeaſe A
but the lady aſking her ſome ſilly queﬅion ariſing
from her diſeaſe, ſhe came down ﬅairs as faﬅ as ſhe
could, to the aﬅoniſhment of twenty ladies and gen
tlemen preſent.-N. B. They ſeldom anſwer any
queﬅions ſoreign to the diſeaſes :--T0 prove this,
A Captain of the Navy, in DuHin, and a very good
practitioner, told a lady he would put her to ſleep,
to know whether ſhe could tell the longitude, the
lady conſented, and ſaid ſhe would z he put her to
ſleep, and on aſking that queﬅion, ſhe burﬅ out a
crying, and was ill after ; many ladies and gentle-_
men were preſent. þ 4 v * .
In Duþlin, being at a gentleman's houſe, I put
his niece to ſleep, whom I had never ſeen beſore,
and made her walk down ﬅairs, ſit down to ſupper,
drink a glaſs oſ wine and cat a cake; the ladies
preſent were in-ſear for her, and begged l would a
wake her, which l did z ſhe was much ſurpriſed to ﬁnd
herſelf in the middle oſ the, company._ Some chair
men, ﬅanding in the paſſage, had ſeen the lady wall;
down ﬅairs; two oſ them brought me home, to
, - . wn'om
[71]
whom l gave halſ a crown, which he put in his
mouth, returning me a bad one Oſ his own, at
the ſame time pretending it was mine; l told him
iſ he did not return my good half crown, Iwould
put him to ſleep inﬅantly. By J s, here is your
full change, I will call again, l have many ladies
and gentlemen to take home. ſi
How they can ſee is a queﬅion. Land many of
lny pupils, have repeatedly'pm glaſſes and cups in
a dark room, and made them walk about, and they
have never touched them. One day, a lady told me,
You 'do this to try me, but Iſee better than you,
In Duþlin, a perſon being in Somnamþ/zlſſm, I
deſired a lady and gentleman to write on a bit
of paper, the room be'ing dark, ſhe told the
contents ; we gave her a book, ſhe read it, and did
not bring it near her eyes, but before the Plcxm,
and ſaid ſhe could ſee better. Another lady, who
told a gentleman he had juﬅ received a letter; ſhe
alſo told the ſubject oſ it, and from whence it came.
When queﬅioned how ſhe knew it, ſhe told him,-By
that aﬃnity which exiﬅs between you and your couſin.
'
In Dublin, at the houſe oſ a particular friend of
mine, I put his daughter in Somnamþalzſm, beſore
her muſic-maſter, and ſeveral other muſicians; ſhe
ſat down to her harpſichord, took her book, and
looked for her laﬅ leſſon, which ſhe played better
than when awake; the room was dark; ſhe ﬅopt
' ..ſuddenly,
'
li
M
_ l
I '
i l
5.
F
j
'al
l
l
r'
L
Wit'
'IN-'N'a-
.-""-***'*"'
-.--..
_._.
.
.
maw,
.
[72]
ſuddenly, on being aſked the cauſe, ſhe ſaid ſhe
muﬅ be charged more ;-they are like a machinc
which requires to be wound up. In the ſame place,
at a gentleman's houſe, another lady played on an
harpﬁchord, and ſang at the ſame time, which ſhe
did ſing ſo aﬀectingly, as to draw tears from many
of the ladies preſent.
In Worceﬅer, a lady, when in that ﬅate, would
ſing ſo well, and be ſo merry, that all thoſe who
knew her declared ſhe never was ſo in her ordinary
ﬅate.-l have made ſeveral ſew, knit, and ſpin.
Many gentlemen, who would not believe that they
could ſee in the dark, I have made them put their
'watches to diﬀerent hours, and ſhewed the watch
in the dark, they have told what o'clock it was z
I have made them put their hand over it, or a book,
and they have read it. I have read lately, that they
can ſee through a mill-ﬅone 5 that may be, as what
appears to us opake, is not a particular quality,
but a circumﬅance relating to the degree of irrita
bility of our organs.
In WoI-verbampton, a gentleman put a boy to
ſleep, and gave him colours to paint a roſe in the
dark, which he did very well.-I have ſeen many
draw and write.-I knew a gentleman, who could
diﬅinguiſh colours with his eyes ſhut.-I have rub
bed a glaſs tube with my hands, and they could ſee
electric ﬁre-A gentleman, in Parir, whom I put
into Somnambaliſm, at a private houſe, ſaid, here is
my
[73]
my father coming, he will be ſurpriſed to ſee me ;
i his father came in about ten minutes, he would not
believe his ſon was aſleep, as he was making all
ſorts oſ equilibriums a laye/Iris, till he laid down
for an hour without ſpeaking. In Dublin, I put
a lady to ſleep at a private houſe; we aſked her
Where Miſs was, iſ ſhe ſaw her, and what ſhe
was doing ? ſhe ſaid ſhe was very ill up ﬅairs with
the maid 5 ſhe reached on the carpet in a drawing
room, and was very ill 3 after enquiring, we found
what ſhe ſaid was true 3 twenty ladies and gentle
men were preſent.
' In Cbelmzbam, I put a perſon aſleep at a private' '
houſe; a lady and a gentleman, being very incre<
dulous, were ſent ſor while ſhe was aſleep 5 the gen
tleman ventured to aſk her who was come into the
room,-Mr. and Mrs. , is any thing the mat
ter with either oſ them ? Yes, Mr. is ſo and
ſo, and nobody can tell him the cauſe, nor can cure
him 5- the gentleman was ſurþriſcd, as he was ſure
ſhe never ſpoke to him, nor knew him.--I could
relate twenty inﬅances like this, aſſerted by many
creditable perſons like the foregoing. ſſ
- In Dublin, at a private houſe, I put a man-ſer
vant to ſleep, who had been ill a long time, and
nobody knew the cauſe ; I then put a little boy to
ſleep, and deſired him to go to the man, he no
ſooner came near him, than he ran away ; a gen
tleman of the ſaculty (known for his abilities as a
r K pro.
.1*i_*-_
_,.
u-W-
'
w.
a
vu.
m
--""'"'***"ſi
TR'
[74]
proſeſſional man, and an enquiter after truth) being
preſent, aſked him ſome queﬅions 5 he ſaid he ſaw
a large worm 5 he was aſked what was good to kill
it, he ſaid, to ﬅrike ﬁre'there, (meaning Electri
city) as he had ſeen me do, and to give him jallap 5
the next day I drew ſparks about the diaphragm,"
and gave him halſ a drachm oſ jallap 5 three days
aſter, he came and told me he had been very ill,
and voided a worm 12 or 14 inches long: ſeveral
noblemen knew the man, and ſaw the worm. r
In the ſame place, a young lady in Sommzmbuljſm,
being in a poor ﬅate of health, ſaid ſhe ſaw ſome
large worms, and ſeveral ſmall ones, ſhe ordered an
aloe' pill at night, and one in the morning, and
foretold what day and hour ſhe would void them 5
which ſhe did accordingly, to the knowledge of
many ladies and gentlemen. -
In W'olwrbamptw, a boy in Samnambuly'm, ſaid
he had many worms, 'and that he could ſee them 5
he ordered India pink, black elebore, and jallap 5
when awake, he did not know what was good ſor
worms. I couldrelate many inﬅances oſ their
preſcribing ſeveral herbs, telling their names, and
knowing them when in their ſleep; when awake
they did not know the ſame : My pupils have pro
miſed to give me the cauſe 5 I ſhould be obliged
to them, as I would not venture my own judgment;
They can know where any perſon is, and what they
are doing, provided they have ſeen them. I have
ſeen
l
l
- _- -- dun-w.- - - -___ .=7e=mn-_ ;
[75]
ſeen them deſcribe how many perſons there were
in a room, and go ﬅraight to them 5 on enquiring
how they can ſee,-With their mind, as we ſee
objects in our dreams.
In Brz'ſhol, a young man came to aſk my advice,
he ſaid he was nervous 5 there was a perſon in
Somnamþulg'ſm at the time 5 I made her touch him,
I then aſked her, what was the matter? ſhe ex
claimed, Let him go to be cured where he caught
it: ſeveral ladies and gentlemen preſent were ſur
priſed-At the ſame place, I ſaw a blind girl de
ſcribe the diſeaſes ofſeveral people; iſ ſhe had been
conﬁned to that particular only, ſhe would have
done much credit to her operator.
In Paris, I put a monk aſleep, and brought ano
ther monk (who had a tertian fever) to touch him 5
he immediately caught the diſeaſe, and began to
ſhake a long time. In another place, a boy being
aſleep, I brought aperſon to him who had epileptic
ﬁts, as ſoon as he touched him, he began to have
the ſame diﬅortions as the diſeaſed perſon. In a
nother place, I put a lady to ſleep, and cauſed a
perſon, who was deranged in his mental ſaculties,
to touch her; on a ſudden ſhe was taken with an
hyﬅerick ﬁt oſ laughter, and ſometimes complained
of her head, and cried 5 all the company were ſo
much ſrightened, that it was reported ſhe was mad.
I hope the perſon, who is here alluded-to, will not
be oﬀended, as it is not intended to caﬅ any reﬂec
tions on his misfortune, but related as an example.
K 2 In
'
4.
r
-
'I'
[76ilſi
ſi In Briﬅol, a gentleman deſired me tolet him treat
ſomebody 5 I pointed out to him a ﬅrange perſon,"
he began to treat her, and put her into a Criſir, ſhe
broke wind upwards, the operator was ſeized with
the ſame eﬀects 5 a quakreſs, who was preſent, was,
' through ſympathy, aﬀected alſo, which made a ﬁne
ventiloquiﬅ trio 5 ſhe declared it was not the ſame
ſpirit that moved them in general-it was a ſpirit
oſ demonﬅration. Samnambuler have a preſentiment
or knowledge oſ your ideas beſore your actions, and.
are_ ſenſible of every thing done to them, which
thoſe in a Criſis are n0t in general.
At a gentleman's houſe, I put a lady aſleep, and
the ladies preſent agreed to take oﬀ her garters in
the abſence oſ the gentlemen 5 no ſooner had one
of the ladies ﬅooped down to perform the open
tion, than the ſleeping fair ſell to crying 5 we went
in, and aſked her, what was the matter? ſhe ſaid,
Mrs. -,-- wanted to do ſomething to me which I
do not like.-Some ladies and gentlemen agreed
to think ſomething, and went to a lady in Somn
ambulſſm, and aſked her what they had thought?
ſhe ſaid, ſhe had anſwered them in their language,
(meaning the mind) it was a pity they did not un
derﬅand her 5 but ſhe aſked for a pen and ink, and
wrote what they had thought 5-this phcenomenon
is- very common.--Of this, we muﬅ content our
ſelves with admiring the wonderful eﬀects of nature 5
-'-that condition, which Providence ſeems to preſent
to the learned, in order to confound them, and ſhew
the narrow compaſs of human underﬅandings. _
Ya
_-n*.-d___. .. _ . . _.._ _
[77]
To make an ELEc-rch or MAGNETXCAL
. APPARATUS.
I ſhall not give a full account of the Apparatus of our So
ciety in Paris. It is more like a grove. Mine, which I had
in London and DuHin, is a large oaken tub, eight feet in dia
mcter, well pitched in the'inſide, about an inch thick, (that
belonging to our Society has looking-glaſſes all round it,)
inſulated upon four glaſs feet, (bottles of water well corked)
you magnetiſe the bottles, and lay them down, the neck of
one in the bottom of the other all round, ſo that the laft
comes to the centre. You may ﬁll up the ſpace with
broken bottles, or any vitriﬁed matter, brimﬅone, or reſi
nons matter, minerals, &e. ﬁll it up all but ſix inches 5 put
ſome loadﬅones and artiﬁcial magnets in diﬀerent directions,
then cover the AWllOlC to the edge with ﬁne dry river ſand
put the lead over; place in the middle a poliſhed iron bar,
about eight feet high, with ſprigs to it, to attract the uni
verſal ﬂuid which concentrates itſelf in the reſervoir. At the
far corner, place an Ardor Vi'et in a box, and place under it
a ﬅrong magnet, the North pole upwards; the South pole
is ﬁxed in a hole upon the cover, by that means you increaſe
the motion of the tree, and becoming vegetaliſed, it will
grow a long time without water. You make holes all round,
about eighteen inches diﬅant-put iron or braſs conductors
in the tub, and bend them in order to make them touch the
patients who come near them. Connect a chain of an'e
lectric machine ; inſulate your patients, and make them hold
hands, it will increaſe the action in them. You may treat
them in that manner-you will the ſooner put them into
Criﬅ:.--This reſervoir has the advantage of uniting many
patients together, and diverting their attention, which pro
duces beneﬁcial eﬀects: one may do without it, if there are
but two or'threepatients.
To magnetſſ' a TREE.
You muﬅ chuſe' one very ﬅout and healthy, ſeparated ſi'om
the reﬅ, and ﬅanding facing the'North 5 have a magnetiſed
' con
[78]
conductor, and point itfrom the top oftlie higheﬅ branches to
the root ; (wide the Theory on Motion ;) do the ſame from
the other branches ; if the tree is ſo large that you cannot
ﬁe the branches on the other ﬁde, change your poſition from
South to North, and do the ſame, then approach the tree,
clap your hands round it, and remain in that ﬅate a few
minutes ; the tree becomes magnetiſed ; you are in aﬃnity
with it. Any patient, who has been in a Crf/i: or So'mmm
&nitſm. will diﬅinguiſh it amongﬅ the relt l have ſeen many
go into a Criſi: as ſoon as they have come near it ; particu
larly at the late Marquiſſes de Puyﬅgur's and Tzﬃzrd's ſeats :-
They will keep that property a great while. It has been
obſerved, that wall-trees, being magnetiſed, have blown be
fore the others two or three weeks. Shrubs or flowers, be
ing magnetiſed, appear luminous in the dark to a perſon
juﬅ out of a Crz'ﬂs; ſome will diﬅinguiſh them by the ſmell,
and others will go into a Criſix.
To magnetiſe a Conductor,-put your hands in the mid
dle of it, then ſlide your ﬁngers to the ends, and rub them
with your thumbs; by this means you will increaſe an ac
tion which it had not before; you will impregnate it with
electric ﬂuid, that will appear luminous in the dark to a per.
ſon juﬅ out of a Criſi: 5 it will alſo ſmell like the ſulphur of
an electric rubbing.
In DuHi'z, Iput a nobleman aſleep before ſeveral of his
friends, after he was awake, we cauſed the room to be made
dark, I ſhewed him a glaſs conductor, which to him appear
ed very luminous, like an electric ſpiral tube, he alſo ſaw my
hand all luminous ; I rubbed the noſe of a gentlemen pre>
ſent, which he ſaw luminous, I alſo rubbed one of his ﬁngers
ﬂom the baﬁs to the end, which he diﬅinguiſhed from the
reﬅ by its luminous appearance-Theſe experiments never
fail, as has been proved by many.
A. celebrated monk, in Parir, being willing to know the
reality of thoſe vapours ﬂying from all parts of his body, and
more
[79]_
more abundantly from the poles, made this experiment in
a Camera Olzſcura; he half undreſl'ed himſelf, on extending
his arms before a lady juﬅ out of her Criſis, ſhe exclaimed,
'* Reverend father, you look like a luminous ſun ; I ſee the
" poles beautifully illuminated ;--But I do believe, according
" to Dr. Mtſmr's principles, they aae changed 5 it appears
" about the Equator."
To magnetiſe a Shilling or a Guinea,-put your thumb
in the middle, then ſlide gently to the extremities, and rub
the borders with your thumbs ; it will appear like a ball of
ﬁre to a perſon out of a Criſin-A Watch is magnetiſed in
the ſame manner ; if it is a ſlop-watch, by ſhewing it to a
perſon who has been in a Crtſir, he will fall into one again. A
watch being magnetiſed, people in or out of their Cnſi: can
ſee the hour better. ſſ
'To magnetiſe a Harpﬁchord,-you ſpread your hands in
the middle, and draw them towards the extremities, then rub
the ends, and touch the ſtrings one after another in the ſame
manner, by that means, you will impregnate it with an elec
tric ﬂuid ;--a perſon touching it with his hands, while any
one plays on it, will fall into a Crzſir. I have ſeen ſeveral
perſons aſleep baet time, as the muſic maﬅer was playing.
To magnetiſe a Room, or Bed is the ſame,-ſet yourſelf
to the North, facing the South, then point your conductor
up to the ceiling, bring it down towards you ; point it to the
Weﬅ and Eaﬅ, and bring it again to your feet ; the room
will appear luminous, and the bed alſ0.-I knew a lady of
quality in London, who could ſee her bed luminous, when the
room was dark. ſſ
To magnetiſe a Pond, a Bath, or a Tub of Water,- point
your conductor on the ſurſace of the water, from the four
cardinal points, and touch the water; cauſe a perſon to do
the ſame, and he will go into a Criſir.-I knew a man-cook,
near Parir, who was told if he would put ſome bread into his
hand,
[80]
\\
t.
.
um"
'II-i
I
hand, the ﬁſhes would come and eat it ; he triedrthe experi
ment, and a gentleman, on the other ſide, touched the water
with a conductor, he immediately fell into the pond ;-this
was done before thirty or forty ladies and gentlemen.
To magnetiſe a Glaſs of Wine, Beer, or Water,-put one
hand at the top, and the other at the bottom, then place your
two thumbs on the middle of the glaſs, ſlide them gently tb
the extremities, and rub the edge of the glaſs with your
thumbs ; preſs your index againﬅ your thumb over the ſur
face of the liquor; it will taﬅe ſulphurous, and appear lu- '
minous in the dark. Many people, whoſe taﬅes are Very irri
table, have found the magnetiſed glaſs among others, with
out having been put in a Criſir. *
- From theſe few experiments, it is eaſy to conceive, that
any animate or inanimate body may be electriﬁed or mag
netiſed, which you may pleaſe to call it ; that is to ſay, to
increaſe an action which it had not before. All theſe are
upon the principles of the learned Dr. Mtſ'xer, the ﬁrﬅ in
ventor, as to the theory ; any ingenious mind may make one
of his own (wide my New Syitem of the World) as to the eſ
fects, which Were known ten years ago : Nevertheleſs, the
pretended improvements made in this kingdom, by ſome mo
dern practitioners, are very wonderful; ſuch as, by ﬁxing
your eyes (with attention, abﬅrſiactz'on, intention, bin) upon the
heart of a man, a horſe, or a dog, you may kill them in
ſtantly, by ﬅopping the circulation of the blood, according
to Far: Helmont g-and to ſink a ſhip at ſea ;_ this would be an
excellent thing for an Admiral, and to magnetiſea ſwerd,
wltich would kill his enemies a mile oﬀ, or through a wall ſix
feet thick.--If I knew theſe improvements, I would carry a
magnetiſed ſword to Monſ. de la ſaye-re, as a Member of the
Harmonic Society ; but that he may do more execution with
his o'm," is my ſincereﬅ wiſh." ,
. N. 13. 1le Pap/75, or albcrpe'ﬁm, are particularly rtyueﬅtd le
ſum" tlvrir lar/er: (paﬅpaidj to tlzz editar ;-a: I keep t/Jcirform
fat-our;" 4.' a carp: de rg/Z-rmfor arm/ber tdi/ion.
-v .-<e'.---i_'
,.,.-_.._
______._
.4
